My own name is Falconbridge -- very much at your service . '' 
This , however , was not seen by George or Falconbridge ; at least they did not bow the less low , or smile the less courteously . 
`` Permit me to say , sir , '' said Falconbridge , `` that exposure to the night air will aggravate Miss Argal 's indisposition . 
George was looking over a map of the region , which he had taken from the shelves ; Falconbridge and Miss Argal had resumed their conversation . 
Falconbridge rose . 
He sat down quickly : so quickly that any one would have understood from the movement , how gladly he complied with the request . 
said Falconbridge ; `` how can you ask such a question ? '' 
she added , turning with a languishing smile to Falconbridge , as the maid disappeared . 
`` Very , '' he replied , `` and if you 'll not regard me as presumptuous , I will say that I have little desire to exchange your society for my own thoughts or dreams . '' 
she said , smiling archly , and throwing at him one of those fascinating glances which possessed such a singular attraction . 
he laughed ; `` no , no , I have never loved . '' 
he asked . 
The hand of Falconbridge was hanging down , and the two came in collision . 
Mastered by a sudden and wild impulse , and forgetting every rule of etiquette , he imprisoned the snowy hand in his own , and raised it to his lips . 
Falconbridge sat down , and leaning his head upon his hand , gazed into the dying fire . 
murmured Falconbridge ; `` strange young girl ! 
And he gazed again in silence into the fire . 
For more than half an hour he remained thus motionless -- reflecting . 
Then turning his head , with a deep sigh , and a wistful smile he gazed at the form of the sleeping giant in the leathern chair . 
he murmured . 
And he leaned back in his chair , and smiled . 
The dying fire-light lit up his youthful face , rich costume , and brilliant eyes , making him resemble some picture of the Middle Age . 
He remained thus , leaning back for a few moments , and then rose . 
`` Well , well , '' he said , `` all this will have its course -- but I soon pass -- enough for one day . '' 
he left the room , and retired to his chamber . 
At the same moment , the opposite door was thrown violently open , and Falconbridge came forth quickly , fully dressed , and hurried toward the room . 
The young girl , who had risen in her night-robe , ran toward him , threw her arms round him , and sobbing , `` Oh , father ! 
buried her head in his bosom . 
The lady clung closer to Falconbridge , burying her face more deeply in his bosom . 
And the Borderer , with a curl of his moustache , extended the huge arm bearing the torch , toward Falconbridge and the lady . 
are you aware , daughter '' -- The young girl raised her head , and started , or pretended to start , violently at sight of Falconbridge . 
As they did so , Falconbridge , Mr. Argal and George rushed from the house , to the Captain 's succor , and behind them appeared the affrighted domestics with pale faces , and uttering exclamations . 
Falconbridge and Miss Argal slept neither easily nor uneasily . 
They promptly left the apartment , and Wagner turned to Falconbridge . 
Falconbridge smiled again , and said : `` I deserve no praise , Captain . 
Falconbridge , he got through there , the snake ! '' 
`` He managed to get his hands loose , and by this time is at the end of the world . 
I 'm a hog not to see better to his tying up ! '' 
`` And I , '' said Falconbridge , `` shall accompany Miss Argal as far as her home , if she will permit me . '' 
`` I shall be very glad , '' said the young lady , looking at him with her strangely fascinating glance . 
`` 'T is none , I assure you , '' he replied . 
With these words , Falconbridge offered his hand to the young lady to assist her in mounting her horse , which stood ready at the steps . 
The young girl 's hand was ungloved like his own , and -- could he be mistaken ? 
-- did the soft , slender fingers press and cling to his own , as if she would retain the hand of the youth ? 
His eyes filled with sudden light , and mounting his glossy white throughbred , he cantered off joyfully by the side of the young lady : Mr. Argal following more leisurely upon his cob . 
Falconbridge ? '' 
The Earl had not made his appearance -- nor had Falconbridge . 
The young man wished to explore the wonders of the prairie toward the South ; the Borderer 's design was to visit his friends at the Ordinary which Falconbridge had selected for a stopping-place . 
He was looking at it carelessly , when all at once Falconbridge issued from the tavern , and courteously offered his hand to a buxom dame who was on the point of getting out of the vehicle . 
But immediately the Captain threw himself from Injunhater , whose bridle a stable boy received ; and before the lady , with Falconbridge 's assistance in front , and that of a travelling companion behind , could emerge from the vehicle , the gallant Captain had received into his own the hand yet unappropriated , and kissed it with chivalric courtesy and devout respect . 
Falconbridge turned his head and saw his companion . 
`` Good-morrow , Captain , '' he said with a smile . 
`` Lose a moment more with me , Captain , '' said Falconbridge ; and laying his hand upon the Borderer 's shoulder he added , `` What a noble morning ! '' 
Falconbridge laughed , stretched himself , and yawned . 
`` I am fresh enough , '' he replied , `` and you seem not at all fatigued . '' 
`` Come , '' added Falconbridge , `` am I not to know who the lady is -- her simple name ? '' 
Falconbridge laughed . 
Falconbridge only laughed and said : `` I believe you are in love , eh , Captain ? 
His companion groaned . 
I thought from the first , Falconbridge , that you were a man of discrimination . '' 
`` Come , Captain , '' replied Falconbridge , who with difficulty refrained from laughing , so melancholy were the tones of the soldier 's voice , `` better luck next time ! 
`` As to finding a rival in me , you need not have any fears on that point , Captain , '' said Falconbridge , laughing . 
Falconbridge laughed again and held out his hand . 
`` You are determined to make me a partisan of yours , Captain , '' he said . 
As to Falconbridge , he laughed gaily at this ominous speech , and playing with his rich swordhilt said carelessly : `` I 'm not afraid , and I think two can play at the cutting game ! 
And Falconbridge with a laugh looked westward . 
Falconbridge stood looking at him for a moment in silence , and then laughing silently , nodded his head upward and downward with the muttered words : `` Yes , yes ! 
GEORGE recognized Falconbridge and Miss Argal . 
He rode his white thoroughbred , she her little filly -- and standing in the tall grass which reached nearly to the backs of their horses , they presented , in the golden flood of sunlight , a richly picturesque appearance . 
`` I am very glad to see you , '' said Falconbridge , pushing forward and shaking George 's hand , with a gay smile : then bowing courteously to the stranger , he added , `` give you good day , sir . '' 
His penetrating gaze riveted itself upon the proud , laughing features of Falconbridge , and a shadow passed over his brow , like that from a floating cloud . 
Falconbridge did not observe the expression or the tone . 
He had turned to George , and began to explain how the young lady and himself , in riding out , had lost their way . 
By some fatality this emotion seemed suddenly to have ripened in both hearts -- thenceforth it was plain that the young lady was the fate of Falconbridge -- his fate for weal or wo . 
`` And Miss Argal , '' said George , when Falconbridge had told how they had circled at random over the prairie , `` was she frightened ? '' 
`` That would have been too bad , '' said the Captain , `` to split so noble a seigneur as the baron of Cameron ; such brave companions as friend Falconbridge and George , or so peerless a dame as Miss Argal . '' 
Neither Falconbridge nor Miss Argal seemed in a hurry to depart ; and when after the meal Lord Fairfax urged the young lady to remain all night , to avoid the chill air , she consented with very little difficulty . 
George unconsciously asked himself if young ladies in his neighborhood ever remained away thus from home , and treated the feelings of their relatives with such slight ceremony : but as Falconbridge , beyond a slight movement of surprise , indicated no opinion , the youth thought he was unreasonable , and blamed himself for his growing dislike to the young lady . 
She kept her fine eyes cast down bashfully , the greater part of the time , only raising them occasionally to throw toward Falconbridge one of those glances full of subtle fascination , which made her so dangerous . 
She inclined her head gracefully in turn , and with a quick glance from the corners of her eyes toward Falconbridge , disappeared . 
`` The lady is a friend of yours , I believe , sir , '' said the Earl , turning courteously to Falconbridge . 
`` That is easily explained , my lord , '' returned Falconbridge , with the same easy courtesy . 
Lord Fairfax bowed and said : `` To-morrow I shall endeavor to afford you the information you desire , Mr. Falconbridge , and to cut out a task for you , George , my young Republican . '' 
FALCONBRIDGE had a singular dream . 
He imagined that about two hours after midnight , his door opened ; a heavy step stealthily approached his couch , which was flooded by the pallid rays of the great soaring moon ; and a tall form bent down , and looked long and in silence upon his face . 
What the mysterious figure was like , he could not tell , as the shoulders and head were wrapped in a heavy mantle , completely concealing the sex and character of the visitant . 
The figure remained thus motionless beside his couch , lost in the deep shadow , and silently scanning the sleeper , who was full in the moonlight , for what seemed to Falconbridge , an interminable time . 
Mastered by a vague influence , which he could not throw off , the young man lay still , asking himself if he were really asleep and dreaming this -- or half awake , and looking upon a real form . 
Falconbridge waited , therefore , and was not disappointed in his expectation . 
No longer paralyzed , as it were , by the magnetic glance , Falconbridge started from his couch , and grasping his sword , which lay upon the table , near his bed , bounded to the door . 
He thought he saw it open and close upon the figure . 
His sword pierced the solid wood -- the clash echoing through the mansion with a strange , weird sound . 
Falconbridge tore open the door , and issued forth upon the landing of the staircase . 
He rubbed his eyes , and returning to the apartment , wrenched his sword from the wood in which the point had been buried . 
Had he dreamed ? 
Could it really have been his fancy ? 
he muttered , wiping the cold perspiration from his brow , and returning to his couch ; `` it bent over me , and looked into my face ! '' 
With these words he deposited his sword again upon the table , and lay down . 
He remained for an hour or more awake , watching for the return of the figure , but nothing disturbed the lonely silence . 
At last he fell asleep , murmuring ; and slumbered undisturbed , until the sunlight streamed into his chamber through the eastern window , and waked him . 
`` True , my lord , '' returned Falconbridge , thoughtfully , `` but I could almost swear I was not asleep . '' 
And Falconbridge leaned back in his chair and sighed . 
Falconbridge smiled . 
The sonorous voice of the soldier aroused him ; and his constitutional spirits gradually returned . 
`` You are right , Captain , '' he said ; `` this is idle , and I am carried away by sickly fancies . 
he added , turning with a brilliant smile to Miss Argal ; `` I trust your own dreams were more pleasant . 
The breakfast soon afterward terminated ; and Falconbridge requested the Earl to have his horse and Miss Argal 's brought up . 
The young lady replied to his lordship 's hospitable invitation to remain , that she feared her father was uneasy on her account ; and this excuse was conclusive . 
So they departed ; Falconbridge making an appointment with the Earl to visit him on the next day ; and soon afterward George , too , mounted his horse and left Greenway . 
Falconbridge ? 
Falconbridge ? 
Whence does he come ? 
'T is one of those fancies which seize on men at times : and yet I swear , as I bent over him , when something drove me in the dead of night to his chamber , I could have taken my oath that the face was the very same -- eyes , lips and everything ! 
How like , too , the courage which made him spring up and pursue me ! 
He will come to-day or to-morrow , and I must not excite attention by my manner . 
Where 's your gallant acquaintance , Falconbridge , our mutual friend ? '' 
The lady smiled , and with an innocent air , said : `` I think he has gone before you , Captain . '' 
FALCONBRIDGE ! 
After satisfying himself that his material wants would be amply supplied , Captain Wagner looked around him to see where Falconbridge could be -- as to Miss Argal , he never felt a very great anxiety to see her : for which the honest Captain probably had a good reason . 
Falconbridge grasped the hand of the Captain with hearty pleasure , and declared himself delighted to see him : to which the Captain replied in the same tone . 
He was speedily left alone with that individual ; for Falconbridge and the young lady accidentally wandered off toward the prairie , a glimpse of which appeared through a glade in the woods , toward the south ; and the Captain 's eloquence had thus full scope and room to move in , without fear of interruption . 
We need not follow the conversation further ; it is enough to say that when Falconbridge and Miss Argal made their appearance again , Captain Wagner had received from his companion a promise to vote for Winchester -- a matter , he said , of no importance to him , and rather in accordance with his previous convictions of what would be most advisable . 
said Falconbridge , as he drew near , smiling , `` you ca n't frighten me . '' 
`` Well , let them come , '' said Falconbridge , laughing ; `` we are equal to them in strength . '' 
`` I could n't bear that , '' said Falconbridge ; `` I never could endure the thought that a woman or a child was suffering . 
Comrade , '' he said , turning to Falconbridge , `` will you go ? '' 
There was so much sternness and gloom in Captain Wagner 's voice , as he uttered these latter words , that Falconbridge , for a moment , remained silent , gazing with astonishment at him . 
Then his eyes turned suddenly toward the lady -- her hand had pressed his arm , that was all : she was looking with a smile at the evening sky . 
`` No , my dear Captain , '' he said ; `` I think I 'll prolong my visit a little . 
said Captain Wagner , indifferently , but gazing with a wistful look at the open , careless face of Falconbridge , `` I can understand that . 
He turned his eyes as he spoke toward Miss Argal ; and his rapid glance took in every detail of her figure -- her head bent down -- her glossy curls half covering her cheeks -- her rosy lips half parted and moist -- her brilliant eyes veiled by the long and dusky lashes , but raised from time to time toward her companion : all this Captain Wagner saw , and the frown grew deeper . 
Falconbridge remained half an hour longer ; and then seeing the storm rapidly rising , also took his departure -- but not so sullenly as Captain Wagner . 
The Captain had ridden at a measured pace ; Falconbridge had galloped furiously ; and thus they had encountered each other . 
CAPTAIN WAGNER quietly returned Falconbridge 's salute ; and touching his horse with the spur , galloped on by his side without speaking . 
cried Falconbridge : `` you think me a mere lady 's man . '' 
Falconbridge endeavored to make out the expression of the Captain 's face through the darkness . 
But Falconbridge did not perceive the singular expression of the Captain 's face , or indeed , hear his dubious mutterings ; the darkness shrouded completely his companion 's person -- the hoof-strokes of the horse drowned his growl . 
`` But your description of a panther , Captain , '' repeated Falconbridge . 
said Falconbridge , `` then you have seen both expressions ? '' 
Falconbridge laughed at this illustration . 
`` Well , '' he said , `` continue . '' 
murmured Falconbridge . 
murmured Falconbridge , passing his hand over his forehead . '' 
murmured Falconbridge , `` speak to me as a friend -- speak to me in plain words -- you mean '' -- -- `` That I do not like panthers , male or female , '' said Captain Wagner , sullenly ; `` they are too tender and cruel , too beautiful and fatal with their undulating bodies , their graceful limbs , their soft , velvety covering , their smiles , their sighs , their fascinating glances ! '' 
Falconbridge was silent for a moment , evidently overcome by this terrible allegory . 
At last he said , with much agitation : `` Captain ! 
Falconbridge , plunged in disturbed thought , made no reply . 
With Falconbridge the night was a vigil of wonder and incredulity . 
Then as he gazed in the direction of the Ordinary his brow clouded -- he was thinking of Falconbridge . 
THE occupants of the apartment were engaged as we have described , when a step was heard upon the staircase , and the next moment Falconbridge entered . 
Since that night on which Captain Wagner had warned him in his gloomy and satiric tones against `` panthers , '' and their wiles -- since those mocking and mysterious words had resounded in his ears , Falconbridge had lived like one in a dream . 
His quick instinct told him that the soldier meant Miss Argal . 
His studied coldness toward the young lady , his grim expression when he encountered her , the shadow on his brow when her name even was mentioned -- all this left no room for doubt . 
Falconbridge had shut himself up in his room , and the storm began to mutter in his heart . 
His thoughts , like hounds unleashed , darted forward and backward , circling over the whole of his life , past and future . 
His martial countenance always softened as he gazed at Falconbridge -- his penetrating eyes grew wistful ; this man who had fought against the hard , rough world so long , and encountered so much selfishness , falsehood and deception , appeared to experience a real delight in the company of his younger companion , and to regard him with a strange affection . 
`` I 'm dooms glad to see you after having so long a slang whang with Fairfax , '' added the soldier , `` but you are looking badly , Falconbridge ; you are as white as a ghost . 
`` Oh , you ride -- you are going to see '' -- -- `` Miss Argal , '' interrupted Falconbridge , with his proud , open look , full of sincerity and truth ; `` it is three or four days since I saw her . '' 
And going to the door , he threw a critical glance at Sir John , who whinnied with pleasure at the sight of his master . 
`` Falconbridge , '' he said in a low , earnest tone , `` have you any confidence in me -- do you regard me as a true man -- as an honest soldier -- as a friend ? '' 
`` Yes , '' said Falconbridge , passing his hand slowly over the neck of the animal , and speaking in a very low voice . 
Falconbridge followed him with his eyes until he disappeared -- turned even paler than before -- and a sort of lurid light broke from his eyes . 
He evidently hesitated for a moment whether to follow and extract from the soldier a complete explanation of his meaning , or seek it from the person accused . 
THE breast of Falconbridge thrilled with a vague excitement , and in the presence of the beautiful young woman , so innocent and pure-looking , his racking suspicions began to disappear , and his confidence to return . 
For the instant his possessing thought disappeared -- he no longer doubted -- he yielded to the enchantment of eye and lip and voice . 
But this change could not be permanent ; Falconbridge was no weak and vacillating boy , whose moods at the moment govern his opinions , and actions . 
Those acrid and bitter meditations during the long hours which he had passed in loneliness and silence had impressed him too deeply . 
Thus his face became overclouded , and his head drooped . 
he therefore replied with sorrowful calmness : `` Are you sure you cared to see me ? '' 
`` Falconbridge gazed at her for a moment with an expression of ardent love , mingled with bitter anguish , and said , in suppressed tones : `` You are so beautiful ! 
She turned her head quickly , and fixed upon him a glance which seemed intended to read his very soul . 
Then an expression of coldness and hauteur rose to the beautiful face , and she said with frigid ceremony : `` Are you aware of what you are saying , Mr. Falconbridge ? '' 
With a frigid erection of her superb head , she said : `` Are you unwell , Mr. Falconbridge , or is your mind affected ? '' 
Enough -- we forbear from pursuing further the details of the scene between the young lady and Falconbridge . 
He remained until late in the evening , and then returned at full gallop toward the Ordinary , his face the very impersonation of joy . 
At times he gazed wistfully upon his left hand , from which a ring was missing -- a plain gold ring which had belonged to his mother . 
He had placed it upon the finger of the young girl , for she had plighted to him her troth . 
Here we would gladly leave the young cavalier -- with his face smiling , his cheeks glowing -- his pulse beating joyfully as he galloped on through the prairie and forest . 
But the fatal current of our narrative keeps us beside him . 
Those smiles are brief ones -- the bloom of the happy cheek evanescent as the frail spring blossom -- the blow awaits him . 
He dismounts at the door of the Ordinary and enters . 
The fat landlord presents him with a letter which he opens , smilingly . 
Ten minutes afterward he is seated in his chamber , his brow leaning upon his crossed arms , resting upon a table -- his cheeks as pale as a ghost 's -- his forehead moist with icy perspiration . 
The shudders which pass through his frame rattle the paper still clenched in his nervous grasp -- but no groan issues from his lips . 
`` Mr. Falconbridge : -- After much doubt I address you , to warn you , as a friend , against allowing your affections to be ensnared by Miss B. Argal . 
These were the words which Falconbridge read -- then his glance fell upon these others in addition , in Mrs. Butterton 's hand-writing : `` The poor young man was found dead when we ran at the explosion of his pistol . 
Falconbridge remained motionless throughout the entire night . 
As the sun streamed in , he raised his face , which was covered with a deadly pallor , and groaned . 
And Falconbridge -- what of him ? 
Has the darkness which enveloped all his life upon that awful evening , when he read the letter of the suicide , been dissipated ? 
A few days afterwards he encountered Captain Wagner at the Ordinary ; the soldier , who had been informed by Mrs. Butterton of the step which she had taken , almost feared to meet the young man , or witness his agony . 
He expected to find Falconbridge bowed to the earth with anguish -- to hear only groans and stifled sighs -- to see , in the pale cheek , the lack-lustre eye , the drooping form , those evidences of suffering which betray the victim of despair . 
Instead of such a figure , he saw Falconbridge happy , smiling , buoyant . 
The quick eye of Falconbridge discerned at once the meaning of this expression . 
He laughed gaily , and then said , with earnest simplicity : `` I know why you start so , comrade -- why you are astounded at seeing me thus happy-looking . 
said Falconbridge earnestly , `` your voice has a terrible sneer in it ; your curling lip betrays scorn and incredulity ! '' 
But I 'll uneurl it ; I 'll sneer no more ; I 'll not wound you Falconbridge -- and have only to say that 't was truly unfortunate that this mad youth made up such a horrible story . '' 
said Falconbridge , with a quick glance at his companion , `` then you heard of his madness ! '' 
Captain Wagner moved his head up and down with the same icy expression ; set his teeth firmly together ; and , after a moment 's silence , said in a low voice : `` Falconbridge , are you a fatalist ? '' 
With these words the Captain entered the Ordinary , and Falconbridge , with a serious expression , mounted his horse to go to Mr. Argal 's . 
A little gentleman , with an irresistible business air , sat at one corner of the board with a huge volume bound in leather , lying before him -- and near the door , at a respectful distance from the members of the court , the crowd -- among whom might be seen Falconbridge , George , and Captain Wagner , conversing -- looked on with interest . 
That figure was that of Falconbridge , who , having watched the absurd trial , and witnessed the scene between the prisoner and his daughter , now rejoiced at the result , and regarded them , as they stood wrapped in each other 's embrace , with kindly smiles and pleasure . 
There was much in the gallant and graceful form of Falconbridge -- in his proud , laughing face , and elegant costume -- to attract attention ; but the look now bent upon him was not one of simple admiration or curiosity . 
The girl 's soft , little fingers glided into those of Falconbridge , and a grave , sweet glance , shining through the tears in her eyes , rewarded the speaker . 
The old man had , however , drawn back unconsciously when Falconbridge greeted him . 
He had not taken the hand . 
Still , looking at him with that strange air which we have described , he said : `` What is your name , sir ? '' 
`` My name is Falconbridge , sir , '' he replied , wth a courteous inclination ; `` I have but recently come to this region . '' 
`` Falconbridge ! 
`` I thank you , Mr. Falconbridge , '' he said , coolly , `` and beg you will not attribute my singular question to any disposition to affront you . 
The speaker was standing as before , with his arm around Cannie , and by them stood Falconbridge , smiling . 
Lord Fairfax turned to Falconbridge , and said ; `` I think you have not yet consulted me upon your affairs , Mr. Falconbridge . 
Meanwhile the chariot containing the Earl and Falconbridge rolled on in silence . 
IN the large apartment at Greenway Court , whose picturesque decorations -- stags ' horns , guns , old swords , and long tapering rods -- were lit up by the cheerful fire-light , and the more steady radiance of two candles in the tall , silver candlesticks , the Earl and Falconbridge talked long , and on many subjects . 
Falconbridge listened with a strange interest to the melancholy tones of this singular man . 
The gallant face of Falconbridge had in its turn strongly impressed the Earl , though he exhibited little evidence of the fact . 
In Falconbridge he recognized an organization of singular nobility and sincerity . 
Falconbridge spoke without reserve of his life , his surroundings in the Lowland , his amusements -- of everything : and the Earl gave a picture in his turn of life in England , without , however , touching upon his private history . 
His manner to Falconbridge was perfectly polite , but perfectly ceremonious too ; the young man was plainly nothing more to him than a very agreeable stranger . 
`` Virginia , Mr. Falconbridge , '' he said , `` is England simply under a different form . 
`` I know our servants are happy , '' replied Falconbridge , `` and we love them as they love us . 
`` I really think you would , '' returned Lord Fairfax , looking at the speaker with grim interest ; `` you have a cordial nature , Mr. Falconbridge . '' 
`` You are laughing at me , my lord , '' said Falconbridge . 
`` I mean , Mr. Falconbridge , that in England , there is a very absurd mode of viewing the people of the American provinces . 
Falconbridge laughed as he listened to this grave statement . 
`` I am afraid you flatter me , my lord , '' he replied , `` we are only gentlemen . '' 
My dear Mr. Falconbridge , you will find , as you go on in life , that this is an unphilosophical phrase . 
There was something so noble and moving in the melancholy earnestness of the speaker , that Falconbridge unconsciously stretched out his hand . 
FALCONBRIDGE found a cheerful fire burning in the wide fire-place of his sleeping apartment , for the November nights were growing cold , and rendered it necessary . 
Falconbridge was left alone , seated in front of the fire , into which he gazed long , with thoughtful eyes . 
His mind had been filled with new emotions lately ; his life subjected to many novel influences . 
The beautiful woman , the melancholy nobleman , the jovial Borderer , the wild region , into which he had been so grimly welcomed by the Indian assault ; all these personages and objects had flooded his life with new thoughts and feelings , and were now the subject of his vague reverie . 
Falconbridge mused thus for more than an hour , taking no notice of the pattering drops which fell down from the wax candle on the silver candlestick , without observing that the fire was dying out , and that the dimly-lit apartment began to grow chill , as well as to assume a weird , ghost-like appearance in the flickering light of the single candle . 
Falconbridge heard all these weird , low sounds , but did not heed them ; he pursued his reverie . 
But finally his meditations came to an end ; he banished them from his mind , and drawing a long breath , rose erect , and looked around him . 
As his eyes fell upon a picture hanging above the mantelpiece , he almost recoiled . 
Had the picture descended from the canvas into the apartment , and any one been asked which was Falconbridge , which the other , he would have found it impossible to decide . 
It was not until the old clock on the stairway struck twelve , slowly and solemnly , that Falconbridge , finding the apartment grow cold , retired to sleep . 
The strange copy of himself followed him in his dreams ; the eyes shone on him in slumber , as when awake . 
He slept uneasily , and started more than once ; but finally toward daybreak fell into a sweet and soothing slumber , which was undisturbed by the haunting eyes . 
From his murmured words and smiles , it was plain that the young man was dreaming of his home in the Lowlands . 
CAPTAIN WAGNER had just mounted Injun-hater , and happy , triumphant , his chin in the air , was about to set out from the Ordinary for Greenway Court , when all at once , Falconbridge emerged from the forest , and galloped toward him . 
He rode one of Fairfax 's horses , whose speed he had well tested , according to the recommendation of the Earl , and in the bright morning sun presented a very attractive appearance . 
`` I am a very harmless one , Captain , '' returned Falconbridge , `` and the Ordinary is my mark . '' 
And Falconbridge described the portrait , the manner in which he had seen it , and the effect which it had produced upon him . 
`` Well , yes , I imagine so , Captain , '' said Falconbridge with some hesitation , `` before very long . '' 
`` My property lies in and around the town of Winchester -- a noble place , Falconbridge , the pearl of the entire universe . 
If I do n't I 'm a dandy , Falconbridge ! '' 
Falconbridge laughed , and dismounting , gave his horse into the hands of an ostler , directing him to lead the animal back in the afternoon to Greenway . 
Then he ordered his own horse , Sir John , to be saddled , and was ere long curbing that intelligent quadruped , with a joyous hand . 
Replying to this significant observation with a smile only , and saluting the lady with a low inclination , Falconbridge set forward at a round pace , for Mr. Argal 's . 
He had not seen Miss Argal for almost a whole -- day . 
IT was only a few days after these scenes , when as Falconbridge arrived one morning in sight of Mr. Argal 's he saw , affixed to the drooping boughs of an elm , in the midst of many hounds , the large chestnut , which was the favorite-riding horse of Lord Fairfax . 
The young lady did not seem overjoyed at Falconbridge 's appearance -- indeed her greeting was rather cool than warm . 
It was no more than she could have bestowed upon a common acquaintance -- and although the nice sense of delicacy possessed by Falconbridge led him to approve of this reserve in the abstract , he could not divest himself of the idea that something more than the presence of a third person actuated the young lady in her demeanor toward him . 
He had caught , indeed , as he entered , one of those strangely fascinating glances fixed upon Lord Fairfax , and the circumstance , trifling as it was , made his heart sink unconsciously . 
It was folly , he reflected , to expect a young lady , because she had plighted her word to one gentleman , to assume toward all others an air of coldness and indifference ; but none the less did the electric smile which Miss Argal had directed toward the Earl make the pulse of Falconbridge throb with disquiet , and his brow contract . 
`` Give you good day , Mr. Falconbridge , '' he said ; `` I am glad to meet you again . '' 
said Falconbridge , smiling . 
The quick ear of Falconbridge , sharpened and rendered nervously acute by the depth of his infatuation , did not fail to mark the change . 
The furrow in his brow became deeper , and he fixed upon the young lady one of those clear and searching glances which aim at reading the thoughts of those who are the objects of them . 
The indifferent , almost cold expression disappeared from her eyes -- the beautiful face broke into smiles , and holding out her hand , she said : `` Friends should treat each other more kindly than you do us , Mr. Falconbridge -- I have not seen you for a very long while ! '' 
And with this ambiguous speech , which conveyed the idea to Lord Fairfax that the young man had not called for a month -- but to him , the meaning that twenty-four hours was a `` very long while '' for him to be away from her , -- the young lady bestowed upon Falconbridge a new edition of the glance at the Earl which he had intercepted on his entrance . 
`` At your age , Mr. Falconbridge , '' said the Earl , with his weary smile , `` I would have made many visits to Mr. Argal 's here , especially if I were detained , as I believe you are , sir , at that dull old Ordinary yonder . 
Falconbridge inclined his head courteously and replied : `` Many thanks to your lordship . 
He did not look at Falconbridge . 
The expression of the young man 's countenance would have surprised him . 
He was gazing at Miss Argal with unaffected astonishment -- and he had abundant reason for doing so . 
He had gone on the journey , which would occupy two or three days , at least -- and now Falconbridge heard the assurance given to Lord Fairfax by his hostess , that her father would `` soon return , '' that he `` would not stay long '' -- as though he had ridden out for an hour simply . 
She darted a rapid glance at Falconbridge , played with the ribbon at her belt , turned carelessly a handsome bracelet on her snowy arm -- and ended by winding around her finger with graceful indifference one of the profuse curls of her raven hair . 
The young lady turned the bracelet round again on the white arm , beat the floor with her foot , and then said : `` Our servants are all away ; but Mr. Falconbridge might take it for you , my lord . 
He might then return '' -- -- The mark was overshot . 
As to Falconbridge , his face turned crimson , and from his eyes darted one of those flashes which at times indicated how dangerous he was when aroused . 
`` That is -- I mean '' -- said Miss Argal , with some agitation , `` I meant that your lordship might be worn out with fatigue -- you might be greatly in need of rest -- and as all our servants are in the woods , I thought I might treat Mr. Falconbridge , as a friend , -- without ceremony . 
He did not reply for an instant ; when he did speak , it was only to say : `` I freely pardon any apparent slight , Miss Argal -- I am sure you did not mean any -- as I am sure that his lordship feels that I would willingly spare him fatigue were he greatly exhausted . '' 
`` But you think my conduct unbecoming , my lord , '' murmured the young lady , `` to treat Mr. Falconbridge with such rudeness and want of ceremony -- I fear you regard me as thoughtless and ill-bred -- I pray Mr. Falconbridge will pardon me ! '' 
As she spoke now , or rather murmured in her low sweet voice those words , `` I pray Mr. Falconbridge will pardon me ! '' 
`` My dear Miss Argal , '' he said with something approaching feeling , `` I pray you do not think so very seriously of a trifle -- I am sure Mr. Falconbridge so regards it . 
Falconbridge followed him to the door , declaring his intention to remain . 
When Falconbridge returned , in five minutes after bidding the Earl farewell , he found the young lady in the position in which he had left her -- leaning sadly on the arm of her chair , and presenting the image of a statue of sad sweetness and regret . 
He had never loved her more than at that moment . 
Did her ungloved hand retain his own , as it had retained Falconbridge 's on that evening of their first meeting ? 
HALF an hour after the departure of Mr. Argal and his daughter for Greenway Court , Falconbridge drew up before the house , and leaping from his horse , entered the mansion , smiling and joyful . 
His love for the young lady had reached that point now , that out of her presence he scarcely lived . 
His life was concentrated into those hours of each day when he sat by her , and looked into her eyes . 
All the rest was a dull , cold blank to him , with no pleasure in it all . 
He existed , simply , there at the Ordinary , and passed all his moments in musing upon the interview which had passed by , or on the one which was to occur again on the morrow . 
As he mounted his horse to go away , his form would droop , his eyes become gloomy -- when he put spur to Sir John , to go and see her , he was the picture of buoyant joy and light-heartedness . 
Cannie and George were so much interested in their occupation that they did not hear the foot-falls of the horse , and it was not until Falconbridge had tied Sir John to a bough , and ascended the declivity on foot , that they became aware of his presence . 
The bear rose with a growl , and exhibited a ferocious mouth filled with white , sharp teeth , but at a word from the young girl , accompanied by a warning tap on his head from her little hand , lay down quietly again , and dozed serenely . 
The boy and the girl welcomed Falconbridge with the warmest cordiality , and Cannie , with a smile , informed him that he need fear nothing from `` Bruin , '' who was a long tried friend and pet , and quite harmless . 
Cannie , meanwhile , had entered the house , and announced the visit of Falconbridge to her grandfather , who soon came forth and welcomed him . 
asked Falconbridge , whose gloom began to yield before the innocent smiles of the girl ; `` another friend , like the bear ? '' 
He was welcomed with great affection by Cannie , and when she pointed to Falconbridge , and said : `` This is another good friend , Lightfoot , '' the Indian stretched out his arm , and shook hands , as he had learned to do , with a grave dignity and courtesy which might have graced an emperor . 
The Indian and Falconbridge were not regarded in the light of strangers by the old man or his daughter ; and as to George , we already know that he was on a footing of the most perfect familiarity and friendship . 
As they sat on the little porch , and looked forth on the beautiful scene of the forest and mountain , dancing streamlet and moss-clad rocks , a cheerful and inspiring influence seemed to fill every bosom , and Falconbridge was no exception . 
The shadows which had lain upon his brow slowly passed away . 
His equanimity returned . 
From the little mountain cottage , nestling in a gash of the great lofty range , he looked down as it were upon the events of the morning , there in the Lowland , and regarded them in a different and more hopeful light . 
Had he not suffered himself to be carried away by a mere rush of jealous and irrational suspicion -- by a fit of angry disappointment at not meeting the young lady ? 
Falconbridge determined to be , in future , more kind and unsuspicious than he had ever been before ! 
-- and thus having banished his absorbing thought , he became cheerful and even joyous again . 
Every object around him increased this sentiment . 
The fresh bracing air caressed his cheeks and forehead , and filled his pulses with buoyant life . 
He inhaled it with delight , and felt the last traces of his gloomy thought disappear . 
His companions were not unsuited to the scenes , nor to his change of mood -- Cannie looked up into his face with her bright smile , her tender eyes , and air of confiding affection . 
She had not forgotten how he came to the side of her grandfather on the day of the trial , and greeted him in his sincere voice , full of sympathy and kindness -- how he had held his hand out to herself , and said she was a little countess , and a good daughter . 
She had recalled his tones and looks and words , on her return , with strange pleasure ; and now met him as a friend whom she had known and loved . 
And Falconbridge derived no less pleasure from the countenance of Cannie . 
There was something simple and majestic about the Indian -- the evidence of the possession of those traits which Falconbridge had been taught to love and reverence all his life ; true native dignity , simplicity and goodness . 
`` Yes , sir , '' returned Falconbridge ; `` from the banks of Chesapeake -- and I seem to have met with you , or some one nearly resembling you , somewhere '' -- -- And the young man seemed to reflect . 
`` And I , too , '' said Falconbridge musing : `` true , it is a matter of small importance where the poor body rests when the spirit has left it -- in the depths of the ocean , in the desert , in the air as the Indian race prefer -- in the lowland or the mountains . 
And that reminds me , George , '' added the speaker , turning to his companion , `` that we should set out for home unless we wish to be benighted . 
With these words Falconbridge rose . 
He retired as he spoke , and soon returned with a small package , secured with a heavy wax seal , which he handed to Falconbridge . 
Cannie had meanwhile called Falconbridge 's attention to her prince 's feathers , cardinal flowers , and primroses in a bed near the fence , and the young man bent down and examined them with a pleasure and interest which was rather on account of their mistress than their own , but no less delighted the smiling girl . 
They parted at a point where they encountered the road leading from Greenway to the Ordinary -- George turning to the right , Falconbridge to the left -- with friendly smiles , and a promise on George 's part to come soon and see his friend , at Mynheer Van Doring 's . 
Falconbridge rode on , busy with his own thoughts , and had nearly reached the Ordinary , when suddenly he remembered the package entrusted to him by the old man , which he had intended to deliver to George for the hands of the Earl . 
THE spectacle which greeted Falconbridge as he entered the doorway of the Ordinary , was one of those tableaux which are only presented upon extraordinary occasions , and under peculiar circumstances . 
It was then that Falconbridge entered , and stood silent with astonishment ; but all was soon explained to him . 
`` The fact is , my dear Falconbridge , your friend Wagner is a fool , '' said the Captain ; `` but when a man grows jealous he sees things double , or I 'm a dandy ! 
Falconbridge , '' said the Captain , with affecting solemnity of accent , `` beware of jealousy ! '' 
From that evening when George encountered him in the Massinutton , and when they met Miss Argal and Falconbridge on the prairie , the Earl had not ceased to think of her with a singular emotion . 
It had been nothing to draw the ardent and impulsive young man to her side -- Falconbridge was ripe for a passionate attachment -- he was young , unsuspecting , an admirer of the beautiful ; with a heart which the first beautiful woman might enslave from the very enthusiasm and warmth of his nature . 
The Earl of Fairfax soon came to feel a passionate attachment for the fascinating woman , and to visit her regularly -- sometimes in the absence of Falconbridge , sometimes when he was present . 
But he did not exhibit any indications of his passion beyond this . 
His cold mask was never thrown off for a moment . 
His countenance , with its grim , sad smile , scarcely relaxed -- he was the same calm , and cynical philosopher as before , the same courteous gentleman , but no more . 
He avoided Falconbridge , and seemed ill at ease in his society ; but let it not be supposed from this that the Earl was conscious of committing an injustice in visiting the young lady . 
Miss Argal had distinctly informed him one morning , that she was not bound in any way to Falconbridge -- that he was merely a friendly visitor who was lonely at the Ordinary , and came over to chat with her and her father . 
We have forborne to describe the feelings of Falconbridge . 
There is something awful and darkly tragic in the picture of a noble and great heart writhing under the dominion of a mad passion for a woman , and feeling that his passion is a vain one . 
If she replied at all , it was only to say , with cold politeness , that Mr. Falconbridge really placed too much stress upon trifles ; young ladies , like their superiors , young men , were subject to changes of mood ; she was not well to-day ; the discussion made her head ache ; was there any news of interest at the Ordinary ? 
-- she supposed he would soon return home now , as he had said his business in the region was finished . 
She would advise him to . 
The air of the mountains , after October , was very cold -- he would catch a catarrh -- and she really would advise him , as a friend to return . 
Would Mr. Falconbridge excuse her for a moment ? 
His lordship was always pleased when she met him at the door . '' 
And Falconbridge would grind his lip with his teeth , bow coldly as the Earl entered , and discover that he had to meet George , or Captain Wagner , at the Ordinary . 
Falconbridge alone , of all at the Ordinary , did not heed it . 
Seated in his chamber , his shoulders bending forward , his face pale , his eyes blazing at times with a menacing fire , he did not move or utter a word . 
The events of the last few days had almost paralyzed him . 
He seemed to be growing old . 
His face had lost all its bloom and freshness ; his bearing all its buoyant grace and pride ; he stooped like an octogenarian , who approaches the end of human life , after much toil and suffering and grief . 
Falconbridge acted quickly . 
He went and ordered his horse -- passed through the main apartment without speaking to any one , -- and was soon in the saddle . 
Falconbridge paid no attention to these evidences of the approaching storm . 
He struck the spur into his horse 's sides ; and set forward at a wild pace , towards Mr. Argal 's . 
Falconbridge set his teeth together like a vice , dismounted , and went and knocked at the door . 
Mistress had told her to say , replied the servant , if Mr. Falconbridge came , that she was engaged and must be excused for not seeing him . 
Falconbridge saw the two forms in the brightly illuminated doorway , and mounting his horse , set forward rapidly toward Greenway . 
The Earl passed within five paces of Falconbridge , but the darkness , which had descended quickly , completely hid the motionless horse and his rider . 
At the same moment a vivid flash of lightning revealed Falconbridge . 
Mr. Falconbridge ! '' 
`` I will inform your lordship before our interview ends , '' returned Falconbridge , in a deep , hollow voice , which his suffering had rendered almost unrecognizable . 
The words were scarcely uttered when Falconbridge was heard leaping from his horse . 
`` Now , '' said Falconbridge , in the same hollow voice , `` if your lordship is not afraid , you may dismount and listen to my questions . '' 
He threw himself from the saddle , and gazing at his companion with mingled astonishment and anger , confronted him in the full blaze of the fire . 
`` I will do so , '' said Falconbridge , `` and first I will propound a question to you , my lord . 
And the young man advanced a step , half drawing his sword . 
`` Mr. Falconbridge , '' said the Earl , without moving , `` are you a lunatic ? 
said Falconbridge , with gloomy pleasure , `` now your lordship is talking like a man . 
And drawing his sword , Falconbridge advanced upon the Earl , whose weapon was also in his hand . 
`` Mr. Falconbridge , '' he said , without moving , as the furious young man advanced straight on him , `` if you wish to kill me , do so . 
Falconbridge gazed after him for a few moments without moving . 
The excess of anger in his bosom had somewhat moderated , as he listened to the collected voice of the Earl -- but it soon returned in full force again . 
said Captain Wagner , when upon the following morning Falconbridge related to him the events of the preceding night -- `` a duel ! 
Falconbridge , both you and Fairfax are a bigger pair of lunatics than I took you for . '' 
`` So let it be , '' said Falconbridge , pale and collected as before , `` and I do not conceal from you -- I can not -- that Miss Argal is connected with the matter . '' 
Falconbridge , do n't treat me like an idiot , '' said the Captain , gloomily , `` I am sane in mind , and see somewhat further than my nose . '' 
`` And now see , Falconbridge , how things have turned out . 
Are you going to return to her , Falconbridge ? 
Speak frankly , Falconbridge -- are you going to return ? 
`` Falconbridge , '' said Captain Wagner , with frowning brows , `` stop that talk , or you 'll make me cry like a baby ! 
`` Falconbridge , '' he said , `` my miserable old heart is bleeding for you , as I think of what may happen in the next twenty-four hours . 
said Falconbridge . 
That is fair and honorable -- and now what are you going to do , Falconbridge ? '' 
And pray , why do n't you ask me to second you , Falconbridge ? '' 
`` And you saw Mr. Falconbridge ? '' 
`` Did he speak of the events which occurred last evening ? '' 
It is necessary , in this miserable business between yourself and Falconbridge , that I should act as the friend of your opponent . 
Your lordship can find a friend who will be proud to act for you -- any one of a dozen in the country near at hand -- while Falconbridge is almost alone in this land . 
I not only acquiesce in your proposal to act for Mr. Falconbridge , and acquit you of all want of friendship in so doing toward myself -- I was prepared to insist upon this very course . 
Do you bear any communication from Mr. Falconbridge ? '' 
Well , sir , I often saw Mr. Falconbridge at Mr. Argal 's , and his attention to the young lady appeared somewhat particular . 
Was there any contract , definite or implied , between herself and Mr. Falconbridge ? 
Once assured that Mr. Falconbridge had no claims on Miss Argal , and believing that he regarded her in the light of a familiar friend only , I paid her my addresses in a more marked manner . 
Mr. Falconbridge called , and , to my great surprise , was informed that Miss Argal was engaged , and could not see him . 
She explained the circumstance by saying that he had grown so moody and disagreeable of late that she must really endeavor to break off her intimacy with him -- he made her melancholy . 
I avoided a conflict then and there by promising to meet Mr. Falconbridge at another and more favorable time . 
he muttered , `` and unless Falconbridge will move in the matter , all 's over . '' 
I will go and see Falconbridge , and return as soon as possible , either bearing you the terms of an arrangement of the affair , or delivering his cartel . '' 
`` Mr. Falconbridge will thus have choice of weapons , time and place . '' 
The Captain returned , and found Colonel Carter at Greenway , and with this gentleman he now discussed , formally , as the second of Falconbridge , the terms of the combat . 
At a sign from the seconds , the Earl and Falconbridge then removed their coats and waistcoats , and advanced to a spot indicated . 
Falconbridge was the more active and supple of the two -- the Earl stronger and heavier in his fence . 
Falconbridge was pale , but the fire in his eyes contradicted his apparent calmness : his lips were set together like iron . 
Despite his most powerful exertions the Earl could not drive the young man back an inch ; and his most deadly lunges were regularly parried . 
His cheeks glowed as if from the light of a conflagration -- he braced his gaunt frame until it resembled a bundle of steel springs , and advanced step by step upon Falconbridge . 
He did not yield or give ground -- the points of the weapons played in the very faces of the combatants -- the hilts were almost wrapped around each other . 
Both the Earl and Falconbridge received slight wounds -- but the sight of blood only enraged them more bitterly . 
`` Your weapon was within an ace of penetrating my breast ; and Mr. Falconbridge also nearly struck me . 
As he did so , his head turned quickly , and he fixed upon Falconbridge one of those glances of lightning , which , on extraordinary occasions , made his eyes resemble flaming brands . 
Especially did they experience a sentiment amounting to stupefaction , almost , when they saw the Earl glance toward Falconbridge . 
He approached Captain Wagner , and Falconbridge , and bowing with grave courtesy , said : `` This affair can not proceed , gentlemen , and the singular circumstances accompanying the fact , is the entire silence which I am compelled to observe at present upon the character of the considerations which render a further combat impossible . '' 
Falconbridge flushed , and grasped his sword in a menacing manner . 
I will make any apology , or follow any course which Mr. Falconbridge may see fit to demand . '' 
The seconds and Falconbridge greeted these words with incredulous wonder ; but the Earl did not seem to observe it , and added : `` I propose , in all that relates to an affair in which Mr. Falconbridge and myself hold the position of rival claimants , to withdraw my pretensions , and retire from the field -- his interests shall no longer suffer from my presence -- and I am prepared to make him any apology which he requires , for anything in which he may have thought himself wronged , by any act of my own . '' 
The seconds and Falconbridge had listened with an amazement greater than before ; but this expression in the eyes of Wagner was succeeded by another of unmistakable pleasure . 
As the Earl ended his address , he bowed low and replied : `` As the friend of Mr. Falconbridge , I accept your lordship 's proposal . 
You will permit me , my lord , to say on the part of Mr. Falconbridge , whom I represent , that this proposition is no less characteristic of your lordship 's magnanimity , than of your fearless disregard of appearances . 
With a clouded , and gloomy brow , Falconbridge yielded to his representative , and the whole party were soon again in the saddle , on their way back to the Lowland . 
ON the day after the events which have just been narrated , Falconbridge set out from the Ordinary to visit Miss Argal for the last time . 
We know the design of his visit . 
All was over -- there was no longer any hope -- the drama was played -- he had fallen in the contest : but he must look upon her face once more for a moment ; he must recover the plain gold ring which had belonged to his mother , and remained in the possession of the young lady . 
As he thus drew near to the secluded dwelling in which he had spent so many happy hours , a painful and cruel shadow swept across the broad brow of the young man . 
Falconbridge was passing through that baptism of silent agony which sprinkles the hair of youth with gray . 
As if to mock him , the face of nature was serene and benignant . 
It was the appearance of the young lady , however , which made Falconbridge recoil , shuddering . 
she cried hoarsely , and in a voice which the young man did not recognize as her own ; `` I tell you I saw him last night ! 
He was lying in his blood ! 
His eyes called to me -- I will go to him ! '' 
I tell you there he is looking at me -- there is blood on his bosom -- blood for me to wipe away ! '' 
`` I loved him ! 
I loved him with my whole heart -- and he is dead ! 
That man killed him -- he is gone ! '' 
`` No , my child , '' murmured the poor father , who had taken no notice of the young man 's entrance , `` he is not dead -- there he stands . '' 
`` Yes , I see him -- it is his spirit ! 
He is coming like Charles Austin to call me ; Edmund ! 
Mr. Argal placed his hand , by an unconscious movement , upon his heart , and mastering his agitation , said in a low voice , full of gloomy sorrow : `` Mr. Falconbridge , you have become the depositary of a terrible secret of my family . 
The words sent a shudder through the frame of Falconbridge , and his face turned paler than that of a corpse , but he said nothing . 
Look at my face , Mr. Falconbridge ! 
I have spoken , Mr. Falconbridge , with an effort , and laboring under an agony of feeling which no words can describe ! 
Speak well of her , Mr. Falconbridge -- she is weak , not sinful ! 
Falconbridge stood looking after her , with the ring in his hand , and never did the countenance of a human being express more unutterable anguish . 
He leaned against the pillar of the portico for support , and uttered a groan of such despairing wretchedness , that it seemed to tear its way from the very depths of his being , and compress the woe of years into a second . 
Then , making a slight movement with his head toward Mr. Argal , he slowly went and mounted his horse . 
The bridle lay untouched upon the neck of the animal , and Falconbridge did not speak to or direct him . 
Two words replied to him , as Falconbridge fainted -- two words , in an accent of unspeakable pity : `` Poor child ! '' 
Whether we are buried in the sands , or the ocean , it is still the same -- as Mr. Falconbridge said , you remember , George . '' 
`` Mr. Falconbridge ? '' 
murmured the Earl ; `` do you know him , then , Cannie ? '' 
And Falconbridge , who had entered without attracting attention , inclined his head to the company . 
`` There , there , do n't cry , my dear , '' said Falconbridge ; `` you distress me . 
`` Many thanks , my lord , '' returned Falconbridge , `` but my visit must be brief . 
The two young persons rose with quick courtesy , and would have retired , but Falconbridge arrested them by a movement of his hand . 
`` No , do not retire , '' he said ; `` my explanation is not a private one -- and I have entire confidence in you both , George and Cannie . 
With these words Falconbridge bowed low again , and was silent . 
`` I shall now beg your lordship 's permission to retire , '' said Falconbridge . 
Then turning to George and Cannie , he held out his hand , with the melancholy smile which had excited the child 's tears . 
She cried again as she took it , and George bit his lip to conceal his emotion . 
`` Where is Mr. Falconbridge , Captain ? '' 
Falconbridge ? 
You do n't know him , my lord . 
The first is to guard sacredly what I tell you , and the other is to go this evening , in spite of your fatigue , and bring Falconbridge hither to sleep . 
I must see him . '' 
I wish you to watch over and guard the person whom you know as Falconbridge , and to explain this request , I am about to give you a brief history . 
` The person I know as Falconbridge ? ' 
I do not conceal , nevertheless , that I have my own personal object in this matter ; I repeat what I said but now , that I wish you to watch over the person whom you know by the name of Falconbridge -- with him is connected all that I shall say . 
But , first I shall tell you what you have no doubt understood ere this , that the young man who passes here under the name of Falconbridge is my son . 
`` After his terrible , and successful plot , Sir William Powys proceeded quietly to adopt and rear the child , of whom he had deprived me . 
A Mr. Falconbridge of the region was about emigrating to the Virginia Colony -- and his wife , who was childless , had taken a great fancy to the boy . 
The bargain was soon agreed upon , and when Mr. Falconbridge sailed for Virginia , he took my son with him , as his own child , and bearing his name . 
He had frequently seen his grandson , young Falconbridge , in the Lowland , but shame had prevented him from revealing their connection , and even from making his acquaintance , as a stranger . 
Assured of the fact that the elder Falconbridge loved the young man , and regarded him as his son , he yielded to the hard fate which kept them asunder , and dedicated his life to little Cannie . 
The strange resemblance which Falconbridge , as I shall call him still , bore to Arthur and Edith , impressed me powerfully on our first meeting , and one night , when he slept here , I stole at midnight to his chamber , led thither by an impulse which I could not resist . 
On the day of his return I will tell him that his name is not Falconbridge ; that his blood is my blood ; that I thank the Supreme Lord of this world , and all worlds , that Edmund Lord Fairfax , the seventh of the name , and Baron of Cameron in the kingdom of Scotland , for such will be my boy , -- is better than a mere noble , better than the greatest lord -- a noble and true hearted gentleman ! '' 
said the Earl , with flushed cheeks , and brilliant eyes , `` yes , Falconbridge is a gentleman every inch of him ! 
Yes , this Falconbridge is truly a gentleman , and that 's better , as you say , than being a nobleman . 
I say Falconbridge is made of real gold ! 
Two hours afterwards , Falconbridge , as we shall continue to call him , was seated in the great apartment at Greenway , conversing with George , the Earl and the Captain . 
We might exhibit the good Earl in the presence of his son , listening with smiles as the young man talks : -- or returning to the day when Falconbridge visited the Fort Mountain , we might dwell on the secret attraction which he felt toward his little cousin , and the sympathetic affection of child in return . 
Falconbridge was gloomy and the victim evidently of an incurable sadness -- but he no longer cherished any ill-will toward the Earl . 
Then Falconbridge aroused himself . 
His eyes glowed , his cheek flushed -- when the soldier drew a picture of the murdered women and children , the face of the young man became menacing and dark -- the war fever began to replace the sombre brooding . 
George never moved his eyes for a moment from Falconbridge . 
The youth seemed to be drawn to him by an irresistible attraction . 
Falconbridge was sleeping as tranquilly as an infant , when suddenly he felt a violent grasp on his arm , and the voice of Captain Wagner thundered : `` Wake , comrade ! 
asked Falconbridge , coolly . 
George and Falconbridge entered , as he was doing so . 
George and Falconbridge looked at each other . 
FALCONBRIDGE pushed his spirited animal until the courser rather bounded than ran . 
The great trees flitted by like spectres ; the prairie glimmered , and fled behind him ; darting onward like some phantom of the German poets , he resembled rather the wild image of a feverish dream , than a real man of flesh and blood . 
She was slain perhaps -- even now she might be weltering in her blood ! 
GEORGE had meanwhile directed his course as rapidly as Falconbridge toward the Fort Mountain . 
Above the crowd , motionless as a statue , on his white horse , the form of Falconbridge rose clearly against the sky . 
Captain Wagner pointed these out to Falconbridge . 
An ominous frown passed over the face of the Captain , and he looked at Falconbridge . 
said Falconbridge , who seemed possessed by a sort of reckless excitement , `` we lose time . '' 
Look at 'em , Falconbridge ! 
Without further words the Borderer pushed forward , followed by the party , who knew him well , and did not think it at all necessary to question him . 
No blazing eyes Falconbridge , or George ! 
`` Why , there are no tracks here , '' said Falconbridge , eagerly . 
His predictions were soon verified . 
On the banks of Trout Run they all at once found other footprints approaching from the north ; and Captain Wagner called the attention of Falconbridge to the circumstance , with a significant look . 
exclaimed Falconbridge , with surprise . 
The hunters had exhibited none of Falconbridge 's surprise . 
They obeyed implicity the directions of the Borderer , and followed silently in the footsteps of his horse . 
Turning a huge shoulder of the mountain , he said to Falconbridge as they proceeded : `` This is the whole thing , companion . 
As he spoke , the Captain dismounted , and advised all who were mounted to imitate him . 
`` Look , Falconbridge ! '' 
The old fascinating glance which had charmed Falconbridge came back ; and the dangerous smile of the dazzling beauty played upon the ugly dwarf , as it had played upon the young cavalier . 
`` Captain Wagner will surely come , '' said Miss Argal , a shadow of anguish passing over her countenance , `` and -- Mr. Falconbridge ! '' 
It was the figure of Falconbridge . 
THE appearance of Falconbridge is easily explained . 
At ten paces from the rest of the hidden party , George and Falconbridge conversed in low tones of their fears and hopes , and all the emotions of their hearts . 
Falconbridge , his second in command , repaired with a portion of the hunters to the fissure . 
He soon reached it , and bidding the men await his return , let his body down through the yawning aperture , into which the moon 's rays plunged , and felt his feet base themselves upon a jutting crag near the entrance . 
From this abutment , he found no difficulty in picking his way , though it required great caution , into the cavern nearest the summit . 
From this he descended , directed by chance gleams of fire-light , playing upon the roof , to the next , then to the next , and so to the cave in which Lightfoot was watching over the slumbers of Mrs. Butterton , Cannie , and Miss Argal . 
Falconbridge pointed to Miss Argal , and replied : `` I came to seek her . '' 
`` I care not , '' returned Falconbridge , who gazed with flushed cheeks at Miss Argal as she slumbered serenely , a happy smile playing fitfully upon her lips ; `` so she is saved from the diabolical cruelty of these savage beasts , I count my own life as nothing . '' 
His head rose haughtily , and he fixed upon Falconbridge one of those burning glances which seem to measure the foe -- as a tiger measures the enemy upon whom he is about to spring . 
The noble voice went to the heart of Falconbridge . 
His cheeks reddened with impulsive shame , at thus wounding , unnecessarily , the feelings of his companion . 
He stretched out his hand , and said , frankly : `` I would beg forgiveness -- I meant not to hurt you , son of War Eagle . 
And he pointed to Cannie . 
Falconbridge replied , with ready presence of mind , that he alone had made his way to the cavern . 
He felt instinctively that in this critical moment , when the aid of Lightfoot was of inestimable value , it would be wholly unnecessary and equally cruel to present to him the tragic alternative of acting with his own tribe against the whites , or with his adopted people against the Indians . 
Falconbridge looked after him for a moment , then hastily going to Miss Argal 's side , laid his hand upon her arm . 
The young lady opened her eyes , and gave a quick start , as she saw Falconbridge . 
FALCONBRIDGE displayed an emotion even greater than that of his companion . 
His face flushed with passionate emotion , and his breast heaved , as he gazed upon the woman whom he loved , even more than ever it seemed to him , now that she was helpless and surrounded by bloody enemies . 
For more than a minute Falconbridge did not speak -- emotion had overcome him . 
Then he regained his self-possession , and said : `` Do you think that I remember the past , with bitterness ? 
`` I must , '' she said in a low tone , glancing with unutterable sadness at him , and then looking away again , `` I must , Mr. Falconbridge , for I have acted toward you in so base a manner , that it almost breaks my heart to think of it . 
Do not interrupt sir , '' she said , as he was about to speak , and gazing now with sorrowful and shrinking modesty into his face ; `` do not stop me , Mr. Falconbridge . 
Mr. Falconbridge ! '' 
said the young lady with quivering lips and hands which trembled so much that they were almost unable to put back the mass of raven curls which fell over her face , `` Mr. Falconbridge , it almost kills me to utter these words ! 
Stop , Mr. Falconbridge ! 
And Falconbridge was as passionately moved as herself . 
Her words had struck him like sharp arrows , recalling as they did all his suffering , his long agony , his despair . 
Falconbridge had only time to bend over Miss Argal , to press her hand to his lips and say in a deep broken voice : `` I forgive you from my heart ! 
Falconbridge and Lightfoot , it may easily be be lieved , experienced singular emotion as the forms of those whom they loved were thus clasped in their arms , resting upon their hearts . 
And if such an emotion invaded the breast of Lightfoot , what a rush of painful delight must Falconbridge have p507-378 felt , as Miss Argal 's cheek nearly touched his own , as her dark curls brushed against his bosom ! 
Falconbridge held out his arms for Miss Argal , and she obeyed his gesture . 
He had gone to seek Miss Argal , had discovered the escape of the three women , and hastily calling to his companions , followed them . 
He had arrived just in time to see Miss Argal clasped to the bosom of Falconbridge , and the sight aroused in him the furious devil of blood and death . 
Falconbridge had seized a huge mass of rock , and lifting it above his head , hurled it downward . 
Lightfoot and Falconbridge took instant advantage of the diversion , and passing through the opening , found themselves in the air above , in the midst of the party of hunters who were rushing to their assistance . 
Captain Wagner led the party of hunters : and beside him Falconbridge advanced into the press , dealing such blows with his sword that every opponent went down before him . 
Falconbridge was beside him -- and beside Falconbridge was George . 
His habitual calmness and amiability had completely disappeared . 
His head was tossed back with fearless pride , and in his heaving bosom , his burning eyes , his lips set close together , might have been seen the evidences of a nature of immense depth and strength -- of dauntless will -- of inflexible hardihood and determination . 
His sword descended with unerring precision upon the writhing phalanx of Indian warriors , and he was beside Falconbridge wherever he advanced . 
With a hurried assurance to Falconbridge that he would return in an instant , George threw himself backward , and clearing at a single bound , two or three dead bodies , rushed in the direction of the spot from which he had heard the cry of distress . 
At the distance of ten paces , and not far from the strange granite bust , Lord Fairfax held , in the same manner , upon his breast , the head of Falconbridge , who was dying in his arms . 
It was at the moment when Lord Fairfax was ascending the slope , when Captain Wagner was struggling with the Half-breed , that Falconbridge , finding himself nearly surrounded by a number of the savages , retreated , fighting desperately , toward a rock , against which he designed to place his back . 
Thus contending with all the desperation of a knight of the Middle Ages surrounded by a cloud of Saracens , Falconbridge retreated , step by step , toward the rock which we have mentioned -- on the opposite side of which was the cleft in which Miss Argal and the two others were concealed . 
Cannie and Mrs. Butterton were bending over Lightfoot , and did not hear the clash of Falconbridge 's weapon , as he parried the blows aimed at him . 
At the same instant she saw the Indians draw back , as by a concerted movement -- one of them , who was behind , levelled his rifle at the breast of Falconbridge -- and fire leaped from the muzzle . 
But the unseen Ruler of the world had decreed that all the courage , all the strength , all the immense passion of Falconbridge should avail him nothing ; his last hour approached . 
In his headlong advance , his foot slipped in blood ; he fell upon one knee , and his sword striking against the rocks , was broken close to the hilt . 
As he essayed to rise , one of the savages levelled his pistol , and the ball entered his breast . 
With a last look toward the sky , Falconbridge , like Lightfoot , fell backward , the blood welling from the wound , and staining his white ruffles with crimson . 
The Indians had begun to waver already , as they saw the advance of Lord Fairfax ; the form of the Half-breed had disappeared in the gulf beneath ; as Falconbridge fell , they hastily retreated , and finally disappeared down the slope beneath the boughs of the evergreens . 
When Lord Fairfax leaped from his horse , the first object which greeted his gaze , was the body of Falconbridge . 
He seized it in his arms with a hoarse cry , and at the pressure of the father 's heart to the son 's , the young man opened his eyes and gazed about him faintly . 
Pushing hastily aside a small gold locket which hung from Falconbridge 's neck by a fine steel chain , he searched for the wound . 
He did not search long ; turning suddenly pale , the Earl seemed about to faint . 
Falconbridge ! 
Falconbridge ! 
As he uttered these words , which were almost inaudible , the cheeks of Falconbridge flushed , and then turned white again : a convulsion passed over his frame , and made the hot blood gush from his bosom . 
With a faint attempt to rise , he fell back with a low cry into the arms of Lord Fairfax , whose strength seemed about to desert him . 
And the grim Earl strained the fainting and languid form to his breast so wildly , that it seemed to infuse a portion of his own life into Falconbridge . 
He slowly opened his eyes . 
His glance fell upon the face of George , which was bathed in tears . 
The wandering eye of Falconbridge arrested itself as it fell upon the agitated countenance -- his lips moved , and he endeavored , vainly , to speak . 
George quickly obeyed , and placed his ear to the mouth of Falconbridge . 
You will do me a last favor , '' he said , raising his hand feebly to the locket on his breast ; `` see that I am buried on the mountain yonder -- by the pine which -- we looked at on that autumn day -- and bury herbeside me ! 
murmured Falconbridge , a sorrowful smile passing over his pale face ; `` I am dying -- am I not ? '' 
Falconbridge ! 
Falconbridge ! 
The face of Falconbridge grew soft and serene : then a slight color came to the pale cheeks ; and by a great effort he turned his eyes in the direction of Miss Argal 's body , and faintly stretched out his hands . 
And the soldier rose quickly , and going to the spot where the pale , cold form of the young lady lay , took it in his arms , and brought it to the side of Falconbridge . 
The face of the Borderer was white , and his frame shuddered , as he thus held close to his breast the body of the woman whom he had seen so often , smiling and beautiful in life . 
But he did not falter -- he deposited the inanimate figure at the side of the youth . 
Falconbridge once dead , his figure removed , his eyes no longer dwelling upon the prairie , the mountain , and the river , -- both the scene and the actors appear dreary and sad : the life of the drama has departed . 
They scarcely turned their heads , for , in a litter of boughs behind them , were borne the dead bodies of Bertha Argal , and Falconbridge . 
Thus she passed away , like a flower , a leaf , a dream of the spring , -- and they laid her as she had desired them -- by the side of Falconbridge . 
By the side of her cousin , whom she had loved so dearly , near the grave of Falconbridge , the pure and noble , the child thus serenely slumbered . 
Falconbridge ! 
Falconbridge ! 
