`` Where are Frank and Harry ? '' 
`` Nobody but our mark , '' answered Frank , a young lieutenant just graduated from West Point , `` and I think we rather touched that once or twice -- did n't we , Harry ? '' 
`` I am , '' said Harry , `` but Frank comes on famously . '' 
`` What are you going to do on your birthday , Harry ? '' 
inquired his father . 
`` I have n't formed any projects , sir , '' replied Harry . 
`` What say you , Harry ? '' 
`` Upon my word , sir , '' said Harry , `` I have not even formed a wish on the subject . '' 
`` So should I , '' said Harry . 
`` That 's right , Harry , '' observed his mother ; `` be modest , my son . '' 
`` If you mean the affair of Brinsley , I can attend to that , I think , '' said Harry . 
`` And you , '' replied his mother , `` how can youthen join the party ? '' 
`` Harry is so odd , '' exclaimed Mary . 
He do n't dine at home half the time , and when he does -- '' `` Young men will be young men , '' said his father ; `` nothing is gained by curbing and advising them ; though , to say truth , Harry , you havebeen rather erratic in your way of life lately . '' 
Here 's Mary , a tall woman already ; and as for Harry , he 's actually growing old and serious . 
`` And I do n't see any particular difference in you either , '' said his wife , looking at him half reproachfully , half affectionately , `` only you 've grown rather younger and wilder . '' 
`` To be sure I have , '' replied he ; `` and why ? 
Frank commander-in-chief , with his eyebrows and whiskers a little more bushy -LRB- if possible -RRB- , and Harry a senator , or Secretary of State , perhaps , for he has n't unfolded yet any actual designs on the presidential chair . '' 
Hair -- a touch of gray , perhaps ; complexion -- a little richer than falls to the lot of inexperienced youth ; a line or two in the face , here and there , only visible in the daylight ; and , in fact , altogether -- '' `` Pray take a warm cake , sir , '' interrupted Harry , laughing . 
`` You 're rather hard upon Frank , '' said Harry . 
`` Well , really , Harry , '' said his mother , laughing heartily , `` it seems to me you are almost as bad as Frank with your speeches . 
`` Go after him , Harry , and soothe him . 
Harry rose , and followed his brother out of the room . 
`` I have sometimes half thought , '' said Mrs. Lennox , `` that Harry -- '' `` Oh no ! 
He never goes near her . 
He had advanced the little , sturdy , hoop-playing Harry into a promising young lawyer ; and Mary , with her short-cropped , boyish hair and pantalettes , into a slender girl of a little over fifteen . 
In this state Harry found him when , at his mother 's request , he left the breakfast-table on his affectionate commission . 
`` You 'll ruin your health , smoking as you do , Frank , '' said he , by way of opening the conversation , and with something of the paternal authority of an elder brother . 
Some consciousness of this peculiarity of the cigar appeared to pass through the mind of Harry . 
Perhaps he did not fully know himself why he smoked on the present occasion , and contrary to his advice and habit . 
He turned his cigar over several times in his mouth , as if trying to get the smoke out of it , although there was no occasion for such endeavours , it being a perfectly good one . 
He then puffed away rapidly , almost as much so as Frank had done , with a nervous uneasiness , and scarcely had the ashes begun to appear , when he knocked them off with a smart blow of his little finger . 
Harry paused , but went on smoking at rather a rapid rate . 
I have answered all your questions , Harry , have I not ? '' 
`` Confidence , Harry , begets confidence , and no one puts such broad questions as you have asked me , without laying himself open to be cross-examined in his turn . '' 
`` Well , there is truth in that , '' said Harry . 
`` Softly , my good Harry . 
Now go , Harry , I have no more questions . 
`` You can do as you like , '' said Harry ; `` but you must understand me better than to suppose me capable of taking advantage of your departure to seek the affections of Miss Elton . 
said Harry . 
`` True -- quite true , '' said Harry , in spite of himself showing the relief he felt at the turn the conversation was now taking . 
`` I agree , '' said Harry , `` because I believe that my failure will lead to your success . '' 
`` No , not so , '' said Harry . 
`` No , '' said Harry , `` we will not gamble for such a prize . 
A large butterfly had just lighted upon the rosebush in the window , and stood stirring his broad , powdered wings , spotted with black velvet and gold , as if drinking in at every pore the sweetness of the balmy June air . 
`` If he fly , '' continued Harry , `` before the expiration of a minute , by the second-hand of my watch , Iwill take the first chance ; if not , you . '' 
Harry held his watch . 
`` This night , Frank , '' replied Harry , `` you shall sleep without fear of me . '' 
Ithappened , as Harry descended the stairs , that Miss Elton was going into the drawing-room on an early visit to Mary . 
A courteous , but not very lover-like salutation passed between them , Miss Elton entering the room , and Harry continuing his way down towards the office . 
Suddenly he stopped , crossed by a determination peculiar to his character . 
thought he . 
He advanced towards the room and stopped . 
While he stood in perplexity at the recollection that his sister was in the room , she came suddenly out , and said , `` Go in one moment and entertain Fanny , will you ? 
`` Now , then , '' said Harry . 
He opened the door , entered , closed it after him , and was alone with the object of his hopes and his fears . 
His countenance and manner must have betrayed emotion , for Miss Elton , who was standing by a table carelessly turning over some new engravings , on looking up , exclaimed , `` Why , Mr. Lennox , what 's the matter ? '' 
`` You will forgive my frankness , '' continued Harry : `` my happiness , however indifferent you may be to it , I can not see wasted and wearing away without taking some measure to preserve it . 
He appeared borne down by her decisive words and scornful eyes . 
Miss Elton looked at him a moment , and then very calmly replied , `` Notwithstanding your formidable threat , Mr. Lennox , permit me to say , I not only reject , I despise you ! '' 
`` Will you be good enough to call Frank down stairs , Harry ? '' 
`` He has made an engagement to ride with us . 
Tell him we 're waiting for him , will you ? 
`` But , Harry , you amaze me : so soon ? '' 
`` My dear Harry , you are agitated . '' 
But Harry 's offer had been disposed of so very unceremoniously , that the young gentleman had a good excuse for being rather out of spirits . 
But Harry was in no such haste . 
The fumes of his supper , and the inspiration of his bottle of Champagne , gave him a feeling of joyous relief , which kept sleep and the desire of sleep far enough from his eyelids . 
Here he sat , and ate , and drank , and thought , till the various persons who came in had satisfied their wants and gone out again ; till the wine mounted into his head rather more than he intended , and till the idea of blowing his brains out for Miss Fanny Elton , or any other young lady whatever , appeared to him one of the most ridiculous and amusing things he had ever heard of in the whole course of his life . 
Finishing , at length , the meal , wine , and reflections together , he called for the bill , with as steady an air of gentlemanly ease and dignity as he could assume , though with a decidedly confused idea as to where he intended to go , or what he proposed to do when he should have resumed his walk . 
He was considerably struck , too , with a symptom by no means usual with him , viz. , a strong inclination to smile without being particular as to the occasion . 
Thus making his way out of the eating-house , he issued into the street , he scarcely knew how , with his hat thrust down very much over his eyes . 
He was just sober enough to know that he was intoxicated , and to feel that the cool , fresh air was most grateful to his flushed cheeks . 
The pavement , however , heaved so beneath his feet , that he could not very well walk , and he caught hold of the balustrade of the Park to prevent his falling . 
He looked around and up . 
The moon had now risen , and was shedding a pale , golden gleam upon each object , filling the air with her gentle glory , as he stood holding on firmly to the iron railing , not without an effort preserving himself from lying at full length upon the stones , which seemed to rock like the deck of a ship at sea . 
He commenced singing a song , but , overcome by the deliciousness of his sensations , and fully aware of the absurdity of his ridiculous position , he began to laugh aloud , and remained thus giving full vent to the overflowing merriment of his soul . 
At this moment a figure came towards him , but , on seeing his condition , crossed over as if to avoid an encounter . 
Urged by some new impulse , however , the person came back , and looked him directly in the face . 
said Harry , `` what may be yourbusiness ? '' 
Harry Lennox ? '' 
He turned to look at the speaker , and discovered Emmerson , his father 's partner . 
cried Harry , assuming a very grave and sober look . 
`` You have a pamphlet in your room , I believe , from the office library , which I wish very much to consult , '' said Emmerson to Harry in the afternoon . 
`` Perhaps we are occupied on the same subject , '' said Harry . 
Harry handed the notes , and Emmerson looked them over with an air of no great interest . 
At dinner Harry was a breathless listener to an interesting conversation . 
`` So , '' thought Harry , `` Frank has either not made his offer , or '' -LRB- and his heart sunk within him at the thought -RRB- `` he has made it and been accepted . '' 
`` So , '' thought Harry , `` she avoids me . 
He therefore wrote the following note , and , after a brief explanation , intrusted it to Frank : `` Mr. Henry Lennox begs Miss Elton to forgive and forget the error into which he has fallen , upon his assurance not to repeat it . 
The subject was one which young Lennox was acquainted with , as it had long engaged his attention . 
Miserable as he was at this moment , a desire to escape from himself led him to be thankful for such a distraction , and while Frank and Mary were gone to Eltons 's , he repaired to deliver his address . 
His remarks showed the results of study ; for , as Harry afterward discovered , he had been long and laboriously preparing himself for the occasion . 
Distinction was his passion , and to it he had resolved to devote himself . 
But he was regarded as a cold , dry man , laborious in details and learned in facts , without enlarged views , or original inferences or ideas . 
His discourse , while it made a favourable impression , did not produce any particular effect . 
Harry was rather surprised to perceive that he had made use of several arguments similar to those contained in his own memoranda . 
He set it down , of course , as accident , for there was scarcely a man whom he would not sooner have suspected of anything wrong , so highly was he esteemed for purity and gentleness of mind and manners . 
But Harry perceived that this person belonged to the class of mere demagogues , who , by dint of impudence and perseverance , not only thrust themselves into prominent places , but maintain themselves there triumphantly , while men of merit and modesty remain in obscurity . 
Notwithstanding very general applause , his eloquence was made up of superficial commonplaces and phrases , borrowed , ready-made , from the floating oratory of the day . 
A part of what he said was good , but that was not his own , and , whenever he ventured into anything like original argument or declamation , he betrayed the poverty of his attainments and the smallness of his understanding by flimsy sophistry or swelling bombast . 
At length Harry rose , striving to fly from himself , and to lose in any manner the keen sense of his late disappointment . 
Harry was struck with it , and felt it chill the warm flow of his blood and the pleasure of his success ; and had he not knownhim , he would have thought he saw on his countenance only the workings of mean selfishness and pale envy . 
asked he , as he perceived his proffered hand was not accepted . 
Then , with a singular look , which afterward often rose in Harry 's memory , he added , `` I did not expect to see you so soon in public , when I met you last night , you know ! '' 
repeated his father : `` where ? '' 
said Harry , sternly . 
Harry did not understand the tone of voice in which this was said . 
The meeting immediately passed the intended resolutions , availing themselves of various suggestions made by Harry , and the curious `` last night , you know ! '' 
After the adjournment , Mr. Lennox , Harry , and Emmerson were standing together , with several others , conversing , when the chairman , Mr. Lawrence , an influential leader of the politics of the state , came up , and shaking Harry warmly by the hand , acknowledged in strong terms the pleasure he had received from his address . 
`` You must sup with me , '' he added , `` you and your father . 
`` To be sure -- to be sure , '' said Mr. Lennox ; `` and as for my Harry , I tell you what , that young gentleman is destined to be , one of these days , the ornament of whatever office he chooses to desire . 
`` I hope he knows you , sir , '' said Harry , modestly , `` or else he will mistake the language of your heart for that of your judgment . '' 
`` It 's all very well , sir -- it 's all very well , sir , '' said the pompous Holford , rubbing his hands , and assuming a look of dignity , which did not hide his vexation and jealousy . 
`` Mr. Lennox , and you , sir '' -LRB- to Harry -RRB- , `` you must not give us the slip . 
He added no other one to the party , and Emmerson silently withdrew . 
It was at once suggested by Mr. Lawrence that Harry should accept an early seat in Congress . 
`` Well , '' said his father , `` what say you ? 
`` I think , '' said Harry , `` it requires time for reflection ; but I should , of course , be guided by your wishes , if I remain in America . '' 
leave us , Harry ? 
`` But , my good friend , '' said the benevolent Mr. Lawrence , amused and interested by this glimpse of a family scene , `` if you leave all your property to your other children , what remains for Harry ? '' 
`` I have given him a first-rate education . 
He is fully fitted to go forth into life . 
He is a scholar and a gentleman , and , what is equally to our present purpose , a superior lawyer . 
Should he then wish it , and he will still be a boy -- '' `` Your ideas of boyhood , '' said Harry , `` are rather comprehensive . '' 
`` There 's Holford now , '' continued Lennox , his fine face beaming with the contempt he felt for everything mean , `` a mere ass ! 
Harry had not distinctly followed all his father 's long harangue . 
His reveries had wandered to the stern , beautiful face of Fanny Elton , to her cold words and flashing eyes ; but he had heard enough to learn that his plan of foreign travel and foreign adventure was likely to be opposed by divers more serious objections than had at first presented themselves to his mind ; that , notwithstanding the wealth of his father , he was to start in life without much benefit from it ; and that , unless he were to break forcibly away from many tender ties and some sober duties , he was likely to be kept a prisoner in his native city . 
such were the thoughts which filled Harry 's mind during another very love-sick ramble . 
-LRB- What meant the throbbing of his heart at the idea ? -RRB- 
He had requested Frank not to touch upon that subject again . 
asked Lennox , of his friend , the morning after the meeting ; for Lennox 's communicative nature confided everything to those about him . 
Is it not your son Harry , then , who is to marry Miss Elton ? '' 
`` Harry ? 
I was under the impression that your son Harry was -- indeed , '' he continued , in a whisper , and looking cautiously behind and around him -- `` I knowhe is also attached to Miss Elton . '' 
`` Then I have reason to know Harry is attached to Miss Elton . 
She is also attached to him . 
Perhaps the young lady is going to take a step from pique , which will sacrifice the future happiness of both herself and Harry , as well as that of Frank , who would not like to wake from his dream of happiness to discover his wife in reality attached to another . '' 
You may have observed that Harry has been of late rather irregular in his hours and habits . '' 
`` I met him the other night , '' continued Emmerson , in a pale whisper , `` quite intoxicated in the street . '' 
`` What , Harry ? '' 
`` Harry . '' 
you do n't mean to say that Harry has been assisted ? '' 
`` Have youaided him ? '' 
`` Do n't ask me , my dear sir ; only believe me , I have no motive in this disclosure but your and his good . 
I fear his mind is , at least at present , unfit for business . 
But if you value Harry 's happiness and health , you must stop this union with his brother , or delay it . 
I have the most sincere interest in the happiness of Harry . 
`` I do n't recognise Harry in this at all . '' 
`` You had better not say anything to him , however ; rather leave it to time . '' 
Perhaps a voyage for Harry also would be of use . 
`` I really supposed Harry very much above anything of this sort . 
`` But Harry ! 
Why , he is not fit to marry that sweet girl ; he is not worthy of her . 
In the irreproachable Emmerson he believed he had found perfect disinterestedness united with unusual penetration , while he saw that Harry was of a character yet unformed , and exposed to all the dangerous influences which beset youth and passion . 
Her vacant place was next Harry 's . 
His father was silent and grave ; Emmerson talkative and gay . 
Thenext day was Harry 's birthday . 
He did not spend the morning in the office , as usual , but absented himself in the indulgence of his love of solitude . 
His father , when he saw him , looked grave , but said nothing . 
He was early in the drawing-room , and felt calmer than usual , for his resolution was taken to go abroad , if not with , then without his father 's approbation . 
At length came Mr. and Mrs. Elton , and with them , to the extreme astonishment of Harry -- for such an event had not once entered his thoughts -- Fanny ! 
She was received with such a burst of affectionate welcome by all the family that both her confusion , if she felt any , and that of Harry were safe from observation . 
Mr. Elton and she , however , both came up to Harry to shake hands with him , and to congratulate him upon the occurrence of this happy festival , and to wish him a thousand returns . 
said he , with all the gayety he could assume . 
`` Ishall not be able , I fear , to hear him to-night , '' said Harry , in a low voice . 
There was a vacant seat next hers when Harry passed round ; but he went on , and took a place at the other end of the table , between Mr. Henderson and Emmerson , more in love than ever , hating and despising himself , yearning to pursue at leisure the new thoughts which thronged on him , and yet resolved to tear her from his heart , cost what it might , or else to tear himself away ; for this vicinity to her , these exposures to interviews with her , this necessity of feigned familiarity , so dangerous and enervating to his resolution , he saw plainly were beyond his power to resist . 
Harry stole a glance at her -- her eyes were drooped thoughtfully down -- he felt like a scoundrel . 
`` I have got excellent seats , '' said Harry , anxious to say something ; `` you will have the Wilmingtons in the next box . '' 
said his father ; `` I will thank you to explain what you mean by that ! '' 
`` Really , Frank , '' said his mother , laughing , `` I do n't know how Miss Elton may take such a speech , but Ishould demand a written apology . '' 
`` Nonsense , '' said Harry , `` they understand you very well , Frank ; they are only laughing at you for being so unsophisticated . '' 
`` Let him explain his meaning to Miss Elton herself in a poem , '' said Harry , generously coming to the aid of his successful rival , as he now considered him , for he had seen the look cast on him by her . 
Harry knew he wrote poetry with ease and sweetness , and had made the proposal in the hope of at once extricating him from the rebuke of his father and the merriment of the company , and of affording him an occasion , if , indeed , he had not yet found one , to declare to the object of his love something of the state of his mind . 
But the desire to do something particularly fine was a heavy drawback upon his inspiration , and the wish to say something significant to her , and yet in which the uninitiated should be able to find only a commonplace piece of politeness -- these were sad labours , before which Hercules , Sisyphus , and other ancient gentlemen might have paused . 
At length , puffing away , his eyes occasionally full of tears , which glittered through heavy clouds of smoke , he brought his cigar to a premature conclusion just as Harry came in . 
`` You do n't mean to say , '' cried Harry , with a singular feeling , not joy , but certainly not grief , `` that Miss Elton has refused you ? '' 
I think we 've been rather jilted , Harry . 
He had received a dismissal , too , of a very different kind from Harry 's . 
He was completely convinced that Fanny had never thought of such a thing as his being in love with her . 
Her surprise , her pain , her earnest desire to save his feelings by throwing over the whole affair the character of a boyish frolic , and , at last , her unequivocal , explicit manner of putting the extinguisher upon his little , unexpected flame , left him no room to doubt that the young girl had acted in good faith , and that at present there was an end to his fine dreams . 
thought he . 
I do n't know what there is about me so very young , I 'm sure , '' and he arranged his whiskers and brought them forward into a more prominent position . 
Miss Elton mighthave refused himself and Harry in consequence of a passion for another , and that other Mr. Earnest . 
demanded Harry of a by-stander . 
Where , indeed , thought Harry . 
at length he sprang into a hackney-coach , and directed `` home . '' 
On arriving , he rushed into the house . 
He could not rationally expect to meet Frank there , but he felt a shadow of horror on finding he had not yet been heard of . 
`` Then he has gone , '' said Harry . 
She then turned to Emmerson , but , on finding him taking some refreshment very quietly in the back room , she appealed to Harry . 
`` I fear it must take its course , Miss Elton , '' said Harry , gravely . 
`` Were I on the spot , '' said Harry , `` what could I do ? 
`` You are right , '' replied Harry , shocked and rebuked . 
He hastened out and leaped once more into the carriage , when a police-officer stepped up to him . 
Harry felt this , and that all exertion on his part would prove fruitless . 
The chance was very slender of his being able to find the parties . 
But the idea suggested by Miss Elton had given him a new impulse . 
His affection for his brother was warm and tender . 
He might find him , perhaps , wounded , gasping his last sigh , alone , abandoned , or deserted by all but strangers and hirelings . 
This new thought seemed to wing his soul with lightning . 
He directed the coachman to drive instantly and rapidly to the foot of Courtland , or any of those streets leading to the Hudson , and where small boats might be procured . 
The strongly marked , heavy shapes of the receding town lay indistinct and black on the flood -- a few dim forms of vessels at anchor , only half discernible ; but , without stopping to claim any more assistance , Harry rowed with all his might out into the broad stream , and was soon surrounded only by sky and waves . 
Unaccustomed , however , to this violent exercise , he presently found himself breathless and exhausted . 
Dripping with sweat , agitated and impatient beyond endurance , he was obliged to cease from his exertions , and suffer many long intervals to pass away in passive despair . 
Then he seized the oars with a new impulse of madness and rowed again , and so more than half an hour elapsed , till , in the east , to him the most dreadful sight , a pale , silver light began to steal upon the long , sleeping clouds , and to touch with a deeper transparency the tender sky . 
Here Harry entered , stained with dust , and sweat , and water , and looking himself more like a corpse than a living man . 
`` Mother , you had better go up stairs , '' said Harry . 
`` Do n't answer , Harry , '' said Mr. Lennox , covering his face with his hands . 
`` Welcome back , Frank , '' said Harry , after a moment 's pause , and with an effort struggling to preserve his indifference ; `` welcome back , my boy . '' 
`` My dear Harry ! '' 
`` No , no , '' said Harry ; `` I want only air . 
Harry was happy in the escape of his brother . 
So far was his from being a selfish heart , that his own grief was , for the time , merged in the happiness of once more beholding Frank , not only alive and well , but covered with glory , and in witnessing the vivid happiness of his delighted home . 
`` Ah , that 's a figure of speech , sir , '' said Harry . 
`` I do n't see how it would be possible , '' said Harry ; `` and , if possible , I do n't know what good it would do . 
Harry felt it impossible to conceal the thoughts and opinions which had been lately stirring in his bosom . 
His decisive character loved to take a course at once , and to do whatever he meant to do immediately and openly . 
`` You would not pardon me -- you would consider me guilty of a heinous crime -- if I said yes , '' replied he . 
`` Then , '' said Harry , `` without being flippant , or meaning to wound the feeling of persons who think differently , I confess I believe all religions only indirectly revealed from the Creator . '' 
`` The claims of Christianity upon the credulity of a man of sense are not , at least , without serious objections , '' replied Harry . 
`` Many wiser and greater than I have done so , '' said Harry . 
Mr. Elton was silent , and Harry felt as if he had the best of the debate . 
`` Come , come , '' said his father , `` you are on too grave subjects . 
He held a newspaper in his hand . 
Harry and Frank retired together to talk the matter over , and Mrs. Elton , who had been relating a story to Mrs. Lennox , Mary , and Fanny , of a shipwreck , of which she had read an account some time in her early youth , where the poor sailors were obliged to remain out seven days and nights in an open boat without food , was obliged to break off just as the unfortunate people had discovered a sail in the horizon ; but she treated her husband and Fanny to the denouementon her way home . 
Frank , as we have seen , was already a distinguished graduate from West Point , and Harry had been admitted to the bar , and become a partner in the lucrative office of his father , with the intention , on the part of the latter , that he should , as speedily as possible , take the whole responsibility of it on himself , with Mr. Emmerson as his assistant , and , if things went well subsequently , as his partner . 
But Harry 's triumph at overstepping , at length , the obscure retreats of boyhood , however mingled with grand visions of the future , with noble resolutions and an innate love of the right , was crossed , as we have seen , with some influences of an opposite nature . 
Yet look at me now!Young men will be young men , and we must take care to distinguish between the mere outbreaks of a merry soul like Harry the Fifth and inherent vice . 
Mary is without religion , and Frank and Harry turn it into ridicule . '' 
I can not bear to see you enter the state of manhood with such principles as you and Harry possess . 
Harry came in , for it was late , while they were singing . 
Had they attended to him , they would have marked the pale thought and moody sadness of his countenance ; but the rest were too absorbed in their delightful occupation to observe anything else , and the young man entered unnoticed , or at least unspoken to , and stood in the embrasure of a deep window , half concealed behind a heavy curtain , with folded arms and glowing brow , leaning against the wall , gazing at the group as on a picture . 
Contrary to his resolution , Harry tried to catch her parting glance , but she went off laughing , and without looking at him . 
Thehour for the dinner , which was to introduce Glendenning and his friend , at length arrived , and Mr. and Mrs. Lennox , Frank , Harry , and Mary , repaired to the drawing-room to receive the guests . 
`` Mr. Lennox is , I , of all persons , should allow , '' said that lady , carefully lowering her voice , so that Harry , who sat near , could catch nothing of her communications , `` a most excellent man . 
`` It is all very well , '' said Harry to Elton -LRB- who had designedly led his young friend to the subject of religion again -RRB- , `` but duelling is , and ought to be sanctioned by public opinion , and society could not hold together without it . '' 
`` A grave question , '' said Harry , after a pause . 
`` I appreciate the interest you show in me , '' said Harry . 
Elton was surprised to find the steady determination with which his young companion adhered to opinions so dangerous , while Harry secretly congratulated himself on having always the best of the argument -LRB- although , in truth , Mr. Elton had not commenced to argue at all -RRB- , and regarded the latter as a very worthy , Puritanical gentleman , who believed the nonsense he had been taught from his cradle , and he envied him his self-satisfied freedom from doubt . 
`` What a delightful painting I could make of this circle , '' said Brigham to Harry , `` in this light . 
`` You have painted us all so many times before , '' said Harry , alluding to several productions on the wall , `` that I should think you would be nearly tired of us . '' 
The pieces to which Harry referred were various paintings and drawings of the children in as many attitudes and costumes . 
Harry , a boy of thirteen , looking you directly in the face with an expression of sunshiny , careless happiness , which formed a striking contrast to his present countenance . 
`` If it could be done soon , '' said Harry , thinking of his own plans of travel , `` I should like it of all things , and very seriously I engage you to do it . 
`` We 'll talk of this more particularly to-morrow , '' said Harry . 
`` Ten years ago , '' said Harry , `` my father had occasion to visit , several times , one of the prisoners in the old jail . 
`` Well , '' said Harry , `` my father sought the acquaintance of this person -- offered his services -- sent him the best of food from his own table -- supplied him with books , newspapers , etc. , till at length , learning his history , and also that he had been practising law for a year in New-York , or , rather , endeavouring to practise it , without the least chance of obtaining any business , requested to pay his debt , which was only $ 300 , and to take him into his own office as an attorney , to assist him in business . 
Every morning saw our merry party early up and abroad upon some expedition of pleasure : a visit to some picturesque part of the shore in Harry 's boat , or a drive and walk to the summit of some neighbouring mountain which commanded a celebrated view . 
In the afternoons and evenings , when the sun , descending into a sea of glory , increased in splendour as the fierceness of his beams abated , and the cool , refreshing night air , full of perfumes , braced the nerves and soothed the spirits , Glendenning thought he had never seen a spot of the earth where he should so like to spend his life , nor people with whom his days would glide more pleasantly away . 
After one of these long conversations , during a ramble through a neighbouring wood , when she had separated him from the rest of the company to pursue , without interruption , her plan of awakening his attention to the subject of religion , the whole party returned to the house , where , after a slight repast , Mrs. Lennox reminded them they might expect her husband and Harry by the noon boat . 
A few moments after their arrival they discovered a light cloud of ascending smoke and steam peering over the summit of a green hill , then the plunging strokes of the wheels and panting of the engine , and immediately the large and stately vessel , more like a floating palace than a boat , darted from behind a projecting angle of black , broken rock , with the well-known barge cleaving the foamy flood at its side , and containing the three figures of Mr. Lennox , Harry , and Mr. Emmerson . 
`` But what 's the matter with you , Harry ? '' 
Never so well and so gay in my life , '' said Harry , rousing himself from a revery . 
It was at this time that Fanny , who had withdrawn herself again from the family when the cold , melancholy manners of Harry , only relieved at times by a forced gayety , oppressed her with a feeling of painful uneasiness , was surprised by the sudden and silent appearance of Emmerson close at her side -- so close and unexpected , indeed , that the sigh which happened at the moment to escape her was perceived by him . 
`` But this son of his -- this Harry . '' 
`` I do not hesitate , '' replied Miss Elton ; but , as she raised her eyes , she beheld Harry close behind Emmerson , his form drawn back in stern surprise , mingled with embarrassment . 
He had evidently , and by mere accident , overheard the last words of Emmerson and her own . 
Harry had already disappeared . 
She recollected that it was Emmerson who had accidentally interrupted her interview with Harry , when that young gentleman had commenced to make to her the offer of his heart and hand . 
When she next saw him , it was again Emmerson , who , on the grounds of paternal disinterestedness , had addressed her on the subject of Harry , had warned her against him by repeated hints and innuendoes , as one who , to oblige his parents , might put on a show of attachment , but who had confessed to him his hope that he might be rejected , and his sincere passion for another . 
She had , then , without grounds , rejected and insulted Harry , whom she had sincerely loved till Emmerson had shaken her confidence in him . 
She had , then , been sincerely and honestly loved by Harry , and she had thrown him away forever . 
The boat in question was a large and beautiful one , built for Harry , who loved solitary excursions among the mountains , as well as such merry parties as the present . 
The lowering cloud , however , still delayed to pour down its contents or to launch the terrible bolt , and the boat seemed happily destined to reach the shore before the tempest commenced , when a violent wind swept over the smooth water , and soon lashed it into such waves as a good deal interfered with the skill of Harry , who had taken the helm , and was guiding it directly to the shelter of a steep , overhanging rock , projecting into the deep channel of the river . 
The helmsman of the sloop , startled by the fierce command of Harry , appeared stunned into stupid inactivity , and let her come steadily on without in the least altering her course . 
shouted Harry . 
Harry , who had just perceived that , by the power of his own helm , he had cleared the main body of the sloop , but that a piece of heavy timber projecting from her low deck might come in contact with Miss Elton , who was standing in mute terror , leaped forward and bore her back , but at the peril of his own life ; for , while he succeeded in rescuing her from certain death , he stumbled himself , and , receiving a severe blow , fell headlong into the river . 
The sloop swept fearfully by ; the little boat rocked violently in the billows of its wake , and Harry appeared to have sunk beneath forever . 
Harry ! 
he 's gone ! '' 
`` Nonsense , '' said Lennox ; `` he swims like a duck . '' 
A moment of intense anxiety passed , and `` There he is ! '' 
`` He 's dead ! 
he 's dead ! '' 
`` To save my life , which I would have sacrificed a thousand times for him ! '' 
In the mean while the carriage had been sent for , and the ladies , with very mixed emotions of grief , joy , horror , and being very wet , had attired themselves in various articles of Mrs. Smith 's and Mrs. Smith 's daughter 's wardrobe , and , by the time the carriage arrived , they were all ready to be put in , and -LRB- Harry first -RRB- entered accordingly -- some on the box , and forming the most extraordinary-looking party of pleasure that ever was seen ; they all reached Rose Hill , went to bed , took warm egg-nog , and tea , punch , etc. , etc. , etc. , and , by the time the storm had passed away and the sunshine had come out again , they had all reassembled in the drawing-rooms in unexceptionable toilets -- the gentlemen in a high state of elegance and glee , the ladies looking lovelier than ever ; Harry somewhat pale and interesting , and appearing very advantageously behind a large bit of sticking-plaster -LRB- which the doctor had applied , with the assurance that no possible bad effect could arise from the accident , at least as far as concerned his bodily health -RRB- , and Miss Elton in a state of most becoming embarrassment , endeavouring in vain to keep her usual cool composure of manner , through her painful consciousness that she had betrayed a degree of interest for Harry , which , whatever might be her real sentiments , she had had no intentions to communicate confidentially to a whole boatful of people at once . 
Frank and Emmerson had both marked the expression of Miss Elton on seeing what she supposed the dead body of Harry , and both formed the same opinion as to its meaning , although this opinion awoke in their separate breasts very different emotions . 
Fanny was silent and subdued , and scarcely ventured to thank Harry for the life he had preserved . 
When she did so , she found , with a feeling not far from anguish , that to her gentle words and strangely altered demeanour he returned only cold replies . 
Since the interview in which she had so seriously insulted him , and in which he had sworn never again to resume the subject of his love , he had invariably met her with the same distant but guarded courtesy , but as she scarcely addressed him in a different manner , she could not be surprised or disappointed . 
The suspicions she had now conceived of Emmerson , and the tender emotion Harry had betrayed in the moment of her danger , had entirely altered her feelings , and she knew not whether gratitude or love most actuated her in the words she addressed to her preserver , and in her manner of uttering them . 
It was not , therefore , without a certain delightful tremour that she heard Mr. Lennox say Harry should not return with him to town , but that he should remain a week at Rose Hill to recover from the effects of the accident and take care of the girls . 
Harry strenuously resisted , until , overcome by the general voice , he declared he would not consent unless Glendenning and White would also remain two or three days . 
This they both pronounced seriously impossible , on which Harry , who declared himself perfectly recovered , persevered in his intention to return to the city the next Sunday afternoon . 
Harry coldly abstained from taking a part , but listened to the sweet voice of Fanny as it sometimes trembled on words which might seem to bear a reference to her own position and feelings . 
Harry , who , true lover as he was , despite his very unequivocal rejection , had clung to a hope that the whole was the result of error , and might one day be explained and arranged , imagined all doubt terminated by the discovery he had accidentally made of Miss Elton 's partiality for a flirtation with Mr. Emmerson . 
If she had accepted this last one of her adorers , Harry felt , somehow or other , that he should equally despise her heart and her understanding ; but if he , too , had been encouraged to form and confide his hopes only to be in his turn rejected , the evidence of Miss Elton 's proficiency as a coquette -- a proficiency made perfect by so much practice -- would scarcely require addition . 
In either case , Harry awoke to a sense of his own weakness , and in his bosom the idle anguish of disappointed love gave place to more manly sentiments and resolutions . 
`` Like a dew-drop from the lion 's mane , '' he resolved to shake off the boyish folly , and to meet Miss Elton with exactly the same polite regard as he was accustomed to bestow on other indifferent young ladies : a regard to be tempered , however , with considerable firmness , and a constant recollection of the character and charms of his fair and dangerous enemy . 
Frank had read the young girl 's heart more correctly ; he had seen the look of unutterable horror at the rising of Harry 's lifeless body . 
Even while he sprang to his brother 's rescue , so inconceivably rapid are the operations of the spirit , that blanched face , those clasped hands , that fervid expression , crushed , as it were , by the shock of death from a tender , breaking heart , were distinctly observed . 
From that moment he abandoned all hope , all endeavour ; and he felt a double triumph in saving his brother 's life , as he saw the value she attached to it . 
He now longed for the orders to repair to his post , once so dreaded . 
Seriously alarmed for his peace of mind , he saw that , if he were destined ever to master his unfortunate passion , it must be by tearing himself away from her . 
He saw Frank was forever out of his path , and that Harry had fairly turned the tables on his mistress . 
Among his peculiarities , although concealed from the world , was a disposition to leave nothing unwon for want of striving to obtain it , which he did , however , only with the utmost slyness ; for whatever he did was silent and mysterious . 
It was by the aid , asked in a confidential way , of Harry , on whom he had done his best to inflict a fatal injury , that he had brought about the very arrangement with Mr. Lennox by which he was to possess five thousand dollars a year . 
She loved Harry , she always had loved him the whole ardour of her soul . 
The moment an interested motive appeared for that gentleman 's insinuations , a new light , broke over his whole character , and she saw that Harry was so deeply offended , and so far from her , would require more boldness an ingenuity she sessed to explain her conduct . 
She soon perceived , also , that he was not only acting on the impulse received from her first interview with him , when , stung with the idea that he was offering his hand in compliance with the wishes of his family , while his heart and his vows were , in fact , another 's , she expressed the indignation such conduct naturally inspired . 
From that time till recently there was in his manner , stern and distant as it was , something which made her conscious he was yet in her power , and something which made her hope she had done him injustice , and that the pure and disinterested Emmerson might find he had been in error . 
But now Harry 's demeanour was changed . 
A careless indifference , almost levity , succeeded to his grave and obviously feigned composure , and his guarded determination to avoid her . 
Now he neither sought her society nor withdrew from it . 
He seemed careless whether chance placed her by his side , or even quite alone with him . 
His air was that of a gentleman to a young lady with whom he was not very familiarly acquainted , but to whom he extended the courtesies , somewhat stiff and ceremonious , of a host to a stranger guest . 
She thought , at first , of her mother , Mary , or Mrs. Lennox , but gave up the idea instantly ; such a confidence involved a disclosure of her opinion of Emmerson , the grounds she had for that opinion , his declaration to her , which she had promised not to reveal , and Harry 's also , which she felt equally bound to conceal . 
Emmerson 's charges and insinnations against Harry had also been communicated to her in a strict confidence , which she did not feel herself at liberty to betray . 
But the impropriety and cruelty of making him a mediator between her and Harry rendered the stop impossible ; though such justicedid she render him , she felt sure , had he been aware of her position , he would have faithfully and nobly performed the task . 
At length Monday morning came , and Mr. Lennox , Harry , and Emmerson were to leave . 
, related to her the conversation he had once had with Emmerson , when that gentleman , to suit his own purpose and break off the match with Frank , had stated his accidental , but certain knowledge of Harry 's attachment to Miss Elton . 
`` I 'll tell you what , '' said Mr. Lennox to his wife , on the morning of the day on which he was to return to town , while , lathered from his throat to the tip of his nose , he was drawing his glittering razor over the strop , occasionally -LRB- not stealing , but -RRB- taking a look at himself in the glass , which look appeared in no way to interrupt the satisfaction of those two duplicates of a most capital fellow on meeting each other , `` I 'll tell you what , Kate , if so is so , Harry sha n't stir back to town this week . 
He 's out of sorts that anybody may see . 
`` Harry ? 
`` The fact is , Harry isin love , and these are the signs of it . 
But Harry is in love , and so , you say , is Fanny . 
Now , I 'll tell you what : he shall remain here this week . '' 
`` You mus n't be alarmed , now ; but Harry , about three days ago , formally requested leave to go abroad for a few years . 
This plan was in due time communicated to Harry by his father , in the Oriental style in which that gentleman was accustomed to make his suggestions to his family . 
Harry could not offer any farther resistance to the proposition without betraying some stronger motive than he desired to assign , so he only remarked that , although he had rather go down -- he had some little things to attend to , etc. , etc. , etc. -- yet he would remain if his father wished . 
Poor Fanny , not fathoming the motives of those around her , not dreaming of the suspicions of Mrs. Lennox , and far less supposing that Emmerson had ever carried his double-dealing so far as to make such representations of her to Mr. Lennox -- ignorant , too , that Harry was meditating a voyage to the opposite side of the globe , and that , perhaps , nay , probably , the few days she was now passing with him would be the last for years , perhaps literally the last -- poor Fanny , as she heard the final decision that Harry should spend the week at Rose Hill , felt her young heart bound with delightful emotion , and a confidence that , however impossible she found it to fix upon any definite way of explaining her apparently inexcusable caprices , all would come right before that day week . 
There did not breathe on the earth a being more modest and pure , or one less likely to contrive and manœuvre in order to win the affection of any young man ; but , while she was pure and modest , her very innocence and ingenuousness prevented her seeing any impropriety in attempting to undeceive Harry under the present peculiar circumstances . 
She had before her a week 's duty , by no means uninteresting to such a mother , of watching the little drama which had commenced about her ; particularly as upon its denouement depended , as she thought , not only the question of Harry 's proposed absence of several years in Europe , but his future happiness and that of her beloved and lovely young friend . 
the poor girl had not only received , but actually bestowed such a hearty smack as made Frank blow his nose in order to hide his wet eyes , and caused even Harry , for a single , unobserved moment , to utter something which would have borne a very respectable resemblance to a sigh , if it could have been heard in the deafening din around . 
When the Chancellor Livingston at length ploughed her way out of sight , and Mrs. Lennox , Mary , Fanny , and Mrs. Elton -LRB- who , the reader must n't suppose , has stopped talking because we have stopped recording her talk -RRB- , with Frank and Harry , had stood watching her receding image till they fully realized that the beloved husband and father had indeed disappeared for another week , they turned and walked up the hill towards the house . 
So , without making any particular mystery of her ideas and intentions , but with sundry mysterious nods and smiles , when she saw Mary walking with her mother quite in advance , she put her arm within Frank 's and drew him -LRB- not much resisting -RRB- on , so as to leave Fanny behind alone with Harry . 
She was so intimidated by the sense of her awkward position , and by the indifferent , passive air and expression of Harry , that the shrinking of her soul might have been accompanied by a corresponding movement of her person . 
Harry saw it , and felt it as proceeding from a fear , on her part , lest , `` time and place agreeing , '' he might be tempted to resume his suit . 
`` She may spare herself the anxiety , '' thought he ; `` I shall make no more mistakes of that kind . '' 
Through the civility with which he offered his arm , therefore , there was something almost of freezing coldness , and she accepted it with an embarrassment and a timid manner as little like love as his own . 
`` Yes , '' said Harry , in a light tone , `` I do n't doubt he 'll turn out a fine fellow . 
The air of perfect carelessness , the firm , advancing step , the deliberate change of the conversation at the point where it might have become serious , the absence of all his usual haughty distance of manner , and the haste to join the rest , had in them something which struck her painfully ; but she remembered the cause he had to suppose this precisely what she required of him , and his promise never to resume the subject again , and she did not despair of letting him see , in time , the true state of her feelings . 
She , therefore , left his arm and joined Mary . 
Harry was gay , and chatting more than usual . 
He was less distant than he had been before for many months to Miss Elton , but it was that sort of courtesy which a gentleman bestows upon a lady , without any effort or any meaning more than meets the eye . 
The tea was nearly over , and some of the party had already risen from the table , when Mrs. Lennox said , `` What is that elegant , very red volume in your pocket , Harry ? '' 
`` I am dying to see a foreign shore , '' continued Harry . 
replied Harry , with some emphasis . 
As for any love of his for Fanny , she concluded , from what she saw , that the attachment was altogether on one side , and her sigh of tender sympathy for Fanny was not unmingled with surprise at the indifference of Harry to so much sweetness , beauty , and affection . 
The party now all rose , and strolled out upon the lawn with the exception of Harry , who , his mother said , had gone with his maps and books to study out a route . 
He did not present himself again till a late hour in the evening . 
She longed to confide to Mrs. Lennox or Mary the offer of Emmerson , and her rejection of it , but that gentleman was too old a head for her , and the promise given she never dreamed of breaking , even if Harry should leave his country under the conviction that she had accepted him , or had trifled with him . 
At length all her sad thoughts , by the force of habit , merged into one , as she closed the long train of her reflections with an humble prayer to Him who ordains all , that , wherever the object of her affection might go , he might be protected and led the right way ; and that both he and she herself might receive either aid to avert calamity , or strength to support it . 
She committed herself and her young sorrows , therefore , to His care who had promised to give rest to the weary , and with a lightened heart , though tears were yet on her lashes , she fell into a sleep , the blessed privilege of the pious and the innocent , disturbed by no ungoverned passion or painful dream . 
Harry 's spirits seemed high , and everybody remarked how elated he was with the idea of his approaching voyage . 
With each day the distance between the hearts of Fanny and Harry had increased . 
He had now conceived such a seriously unfavourable opinion of her , that he often showed it unconsciously . 
His manly and noble character could receive from an artful coquette but one impression . 
`` So Harry is really off ? '' 
`` He 's his own master . 
`` Give me but three or four years , '' said Harry , `` to see the world , and study what can be better studied in Europe than here , and I 'll come back and turn man of businessthe rest of my life . '' 
`` It is but fair , '' said his father , to whom Mrs. Lennox had already communicated the result of her observations . 
`` But , my dear , dear Harry , '' cried Mrs. Lennox , `` you 'll want a thousand things . 
and `` You are a devilish lucky fellow , Harry ! '' 
Harry withdrew to his room , and hastily , and with a somewhat trembling hand , packed up the necessary things . 
By the time he had finished the whole family were assembled on the lawn , with hats and bonnets , to accompany him down to the landing-place , already the scene of so many sad and merry partings and meetings . 
In the whole course of the preceding conversation Harry had never once looked at Fanny nor she at him . 
Mary said it reminded her of a man who was asked `` How soon he could be ready to set off for China , '' and who replied , `` As soon as I can get my hat ! '' 
The former had not been initiated into the real state of affairs between Harry and Fanny , her acuteness being diverted by the fixed idea she had of an attachment that was , or was to be , between Frank and Fanny . 
All of a sudden she called back Harry , who happened to be the nearest . 
`` Come here , Harry , will you ? '' 
inquired Harry . 
exclaimed Harry . 
`` Certainly , '' said Harry . 
`` Really , Miss Elton , '' said Harry , politely , `` you seem to be quite lame . '' 
`` I have twenty minutes , '' replied Harry , looking at his watch . 
`` An artifice , '' thought Harry , but as he looked down in her face , over which a slight expression of pain was mingled with one of emotion , he felt he did her injustice . 
His error was made more certain by the appearance of a spot of blood upon the white , thin shoe that clothed the slenderest , most graceful foot in the world . 
`` You must return , indeed you must , '' said Harry , alarmed and ashamed of his suspicions . 
`` Oh no , '' replied Fanny , also alarmed , not at the hurt , but at the idea of returning alone with him in her present state of mind ; `` pray let us hasten on . '' 
They did so ; but a long walk and a lonely one was before them , and she was obliged to lean much more heavily than she had ever done before upon his arm . 
`` I shall be uneasy about your foot , '' said Harry ; `` I wish this had not happened . 
`` Yes , '' said Harry , `` it must indeed be a singular sensation to return to one 's country after an absence of some years . '' 
`` It is entirely forgiven , '' said Harry , coldly . 
As he spoke , he felt that the light , loved arm trembled in his . 
He was affected , but he remembered Emmerson . 
There was another pause , and the idea that he ought to be too sensible to yield to the artifices of a coquette rose in his mind . 
He looked once more on Miss Elton 's face , and her eyes were raised to his . 
They were full of tears , and their expression thrilled him to the soul . 
`` Fanny , '' said he , `` will you answer me one question ? '' 
Ere these and other similar expressions were uttered , Harry was half way from the land to the steamboat . 
Various handkerchiefs were waved to him , which he answered by wafting back again a kiss with his hand . 
And now Harry felt as if he were , indeed , launched upon the world , already a free , independent man . 
After such kind and familiar salutations as Harry delighted to bestow on those beneath him , or in any way in his power , he went into the next room and shut the door . 
`` Understand me , '' said Harry . 
Harry went out , humming an opera tune . 
Frank in Prairie du Chien , Master Harry in Jerusalem -- the old fellow will follow after him , doubtless , before a year . 
As Fanny left Rose Hill with the family next day , her heart beat high with the hope of -- she scarcely knew what Harry 's last words had been more than kind -- they were confidential and tender . 
She felt that his good opinion had been partly regained , and she looked forward , if not to the postponement of his voyage , at least to such a parting as would not leave her in such a painful state of mind as she had suffered the last two days . 
She saw the refusal to answer his two questions had surprised him ; but she depended upon his perceiving -LRB- without being told -RRB- that she was under some necessity in not doing so . 
They reached town , at length , on a bright evening , and preferred to walk home , looking -LRB- particularly Fanny -RRB- to see Harry each moment coming to meet them . 
But Harry was not to be seen , either on their way home or when they arrived there . 
At length he made his appearance , greeted with more than his accustomed warmth each individual of the family he was about to be so soon separated from , including in his heartiest welcome Mrs. Elton . 
To Miss Elton he bowed stiffly , without offering his hand or meeting her inquiring look . 
Fanny spent part of the evening there , but the same coldness was persevered in , till she felt that if she had appeared cruel and capricious , he was much more so . 
In the evening Frank and Mary came round , to say that they were all going to accompany the packet-ship out to sea as far as Sandy Hook in the steamboat , and to see Harry fairly off . 
She had never seen a packet-ship at sea , or the sea itself at all ; she had never seen the Hook ; and Harry would be so disappointed if the whole of the Rose Hill party did not honour his embarcation ; and various other irresistible reasons were so persevered in by Mary , that she was obliged to acquiesce , though she felt she was destined to undergo a terrible ordeal . 
Onthe last evening that Harry was to spend at home , Mrs. Lennox took an occasion to seek him , when he was alone in his room , arranging his things preparatory to his embarcation . 
The tender and thoughtful mother had resolved to address him upon two points with the frankness which is the privilege of maternal affection . 
`` Harry , '' said she , seating herself by his side , and fixing her gentle eyes full upon him , `` that is Miss Elton 's hair . '' 
asked Harry , recovering , not without an effort , from his confusion . 
`` Fanny Elton , Harry , is , of all beings out of my family , the one I most admire , for whom I have the sincerest affection . 
`` No , mother , '' said Harry , firmly , almost sternly . 
He took it out and handed it to her . 
He was going to disclose what he had learned from Emmerson , but that gentleman had exacted from him a distinct promise of secrecy , so he stopped and said nothing . 
`` But there are ties enough without her , my dear mother , '' said Harry . 
`` I thank you for your frankness , Harry . 
The tears rolled down her cheek as she spoke , and she took his hand and pressed it fervently to her lips . 
You cross-examine , mother , like a lawyer , '' he replied , laughing , but at the same time blushing . 
But I give you notice , '' he added , laughing , `` I shall tell you , without concealment , the result of my inquiry . 
He shook his head and smiled . 
The term `` died to save you '' grated on Harry 's ear as the cant of a class . 
She embraced him affectionately , and saying , `` This is the last time I shall bid you good-night , Harry , for many a year , '' left him with her eyes full of tears . 
The breakfast was attempted to be made very lively by Harry and his father , but Mrs. Lennox and Mary were both plainly affected , and Mrs. Elton did not think it even necessary to wipe away with her handkerchief the tears which came trembling , one after another , down her cheeks , till she was at last obliged to stop eating altogether , in order to blow her nose . 
Fanny did not weep ; she even smiled , and sometimes ventured a timid remark to Harry on the delightful weather ; but she was so pale with strong , suppressed emotion , and so ten thousand times more lovely and touching than ever she had been before , that Harry , after one stolen look at her , when their eyes did not meet , for hers were drooped in silent and most sad revery upon the floor , formed an inward vow not to look at her again , unless he were contented to make a regular fool of himself by countermanding his passage , and remaining at home to be duped and laughed at a third time by one who certainly , at this present moment , looked like anything on earth but a coquette . 
Nevertheless , he had scarcely formed the vow , when he found his disobedient eyes fixed once more on that charming figure , now so still and passive , on that beautiful , once bright face , now more like death than life , and yet where , unless art were fair as nature , firm and modest pride held government over a breaking heart , and kept all silent and resigned . 
`` I can not , can not believe it , '' said Mrs. Lennox , folding Harry to her bosom , `` that I am losing my beloved son , perhaps forever . '' 
`` My dear mother , '' said Harry , offering his arm . 
`` Come along , Harry , come along . '' 
said Harry . 
Well , you 'll be too late , I 'm sure you will , '' said his father ; `` and a sensible set we shall look like , to be sure , driving down in such a crowd as this , and leaving the only one who is really going -- behind . '' 
`` That 's Harry , all the world over , '' said Mary . 
`` You know he was going to send us all out of town to celebrate his birthday except himself , and he was going to stay at home and work ! '' 
Harry now shook heartily the clerks by the hand -LRB- did n't they envy him , too ? -RRB- 
, and the servants , also , now came up to bid young master good-by , and poor black Simon looking as if his heart would break , and the foolish old fat cook blubbering away till everybody else began to cry again , too , though they could scarcely do so for laughing , and off went the carriage , thundering away , and off walked Harry just as fast , and they all got there just in the very nick of time . 
There they all were , laughing , talking , and jesting , and Harry shaking every human being by the hand , and speaking so warmly , and smiling so gracefully at all but herself ; and she , of course , received her share of jests , at which she was obliged to laugh , and of attentions which she must return , and all the while the steamboat was pushing her way rapidly towards the tall , noble-looking ship , which , with sails gradually rising to the air , and her prow already turned seaward , was beginning to move , her anchor being already weighed . 
During this little interval , Harry was , of course , surrounded -LRB- perhaps eaten upwould be a more appropriate expression -RRB- by his affectionate relatives , and some twenty or thirty personal friends who happened to be on board . 
On Fanny he never turned his eyes ; but she could not help looking often and with a swelling heart on his noble , manly form , and really very handsome countenance , as he seemed enjoying himself just as if he were not leaving the warmest heart in the world to pine and break in silence behind him -- just , in fact , as if he were not conscious there was such a person as she on earth . 
And now they have reached the packet , and all hands are assisted on board , and there is a cold collation , and some excellent wine , and the company all stand round the long table and drink each other 's health , and happy voyage , and pleasant weather , and short passage , and safe and speedy return , and , before the now half-bewildered Fanny quite expected it , the bell rang , and all were ordered off the ship , and there were various groups formed of families and friends embracing -LRB- long , deep , oft-repeated embraces they were , too -RRB- -- and Harry stood , tall and quiet , and took , by turns , mother and father in his arms and to his heart . 
Perhaps there was a moisture in his lashes while he received and returned those last sweet tokens of love ; then Mary , who -LRB- no one dreamed shewould have done so -RRB- fairly burst into tears ; then Frank , who smiled a bright , clear smile , and said , `` Did you ever see such a set of simpletons , Harry ? '' 
Fanny was the only one whom Harry had not bade farewell to . 
She thought he was not going to at all , and she wished he might not ; and when he approached her , at length , with a cold and formal bow , she would have given worlds if he could have totally overlooked her . 
`` Harry , '' said she , not altogether suppressing a sob , `` good-by ! 
was his cold reply ; `` should we never meet again , you have my best wishes . 
By the time they reached town again , all but herself were , or seemed , quite recovered from the sadness of mere leave-taking ; and when she remembered the perfect indifference with which Harry had pronounced his last farewell , she too began to be supported by pride , shame , and indignation , and made a tolerably successful attempt to regain her spirits . 
He approached and conversed with her some time , with a gentleness which it seemed could only proceed from an excellent heart and a sincere character . 
Harry 's cold `` good-by '' confirmed her in the conviction that she was not and had never been beloved by him ; and that was exactly what Emmerson had told her . 
Sometimes she almost imagined that now Harry 's want even of esteem for her had been so clearly and so cruelly displayed , she might return some rays of encouragement to the faithful attachment of Frank , whose unhappiness she could not bear to see , and might in time bring herself to alleviate . 
But she had been educated upon the strictest moral and religious principles , and knew how to distinguish between the impulses of amiable weakness and the dictates of duty ; and the image of Harry , careless , forgetful , contemptuous as he was , reigned too strongly in her heart to permit her to think of ever receiving the addresses of another . 
To inhabit even that delightful house , when thus deserted by so many who had made it the happiest spot in the world , to wander alone by the winding beach , and through the solemn , silent wood , where the voices of Frank , Glendenning , White , and Harry had been so often heard , did not seem an attractive idea . 
It is to him I look as the guardian of Harry and the inheritor of half my business , whenever I may choose to retire myself from the toils of the office . 
A breath against his character , and I am sure he would withdraw himself from me forever . 
Harry has gone to Europe , and Mr. Lennox 's business requires his presence in New-York . 
There were his father and his mother , Mary , Harry , and himself , living , actually living before him . 
His father , his mother -- ah , now the big tears gushed to his eyes -- Mary , Harry , Fanny Elton -- his friends , the haunts of his youth , the hopes of his manhood -- all were to him things of the past -- shapes of a vanished dream . 
Frank , Harry , and Seth were out of his way . 
The fortune which had been intended for Frank might now descend to Harry . 
Miss Elton , with her large fortune , might be persuaded to listen to him , now that Harry was not only away , but had left her with unconcealed indifference . 
You must , in some measure , supply my place till Harry , poor boy , gets back . 
Let us have all ready for him ; you and he must take care of matters . 
There is enough for both of you , and I want him to distinguish himself as a lawyer , and , at the same time , keep him near us the rest of our lives . 
Theexcitement of getting out to sea for the first time , to a young fellow like Harry , is very great . 
In one hour he is in the midst of a gay , crowded , roaring city , surrounded by the scenes of his youth and boyhood , and beholding only the horizon , which has , till now , bounded his existence within a narrow circle ; the next he is abroad on the eternal ocean . 
All the objects of his love , all the shapes familiar to him , have passed away , and who can say whether he will ever see them again ? 
As the last point of land , a dim shape of blue , melted into the air under Harry 's thoughtful gaze , he was assailed by various serious and some tender reflections . 
How long should he be absent ? 
What changes might take place before his return ? 
Might he not leave his bones in a foreign land , perhaps in the ocean ? 
Might not death strike some of those beloved objects , and might he not come back , after years ' wandering , to find seats empty in the home circle ? 
If fate had decreed it so , which one was it he was destined never to see again ? 
The last look , the pale face , the anguish , and trembling agitation of Fanny Elton at the moment of parting , he felt could never , never fade from his memory ; and he felt , also , that , but for the certaintyhe had acquired from her own rejection of him , and from Emmerson 's statement , he was a monster to part from her so coldly . 
The person who addressed him was a gentleman of about fifty , of a pleasing and dignified exterior , whom Harry had previously remarked accompanied by a young lady of a more than prepossessing appearance . 
`` Oh , no , I do n't , '' replied Harry . 
Harry paused and looked his interrogator in the face , uncertain whether to be pleased or offended at his freedom . 
There was something , however , in his countenance and manner so benevolent and intelligent that he replied with frankness . 
Harry returned his polite salutation , and resumed his reading . 
In two weeks he finished it , and closed the volume with a sigh of fatigue . 
`` Well , it 's done at last , '' thought he ; `` I really had no idea I could get through with it in so short a time ; I had always a fancy , somehow or other , that reading the Bible was a work of years , and , consequently , postponed it to some indefinite period of sickness , confinement , or old age . 
Thus was one of the works disposed of , but without one beam of light which his `` poor mother '' hoped such a perusal would send into his mind . 
He had read a curious historical monument of ancient credulity , palmed upon mankind when there was no press , and descended to the present time in some odd way , which he remembered Gibbon had admirably explained , though he did not recall exactly how . 
He would read -- that he had promised to do -- page after page , but he aroused himself at the end of each chapter to a weary conviction , that , instead of accompanying the author through his abstruse , complicated arguments , he had been , in imagination , leading Miss Elton down the road from Rose Hill to the landing-place , or bidding her good-by with affected indifference , while his heart thrilled with the expression of her face and those flattering words , `` Harry , good-by ! 
The circumstance drew the attention of Harry to the family . 
Fearing , from their appearance , that they were but ill provided with the necessaries of life , he offered to supply their wants , but found Mr. Rivington and his daughter had already anticipated him . 
A few days after , despite the assiduous attentions of Mr. and Miss Rivington , and Harry , the little sufferer also died . 
Harry 's soul was struck with deep compassion . 
Miss Rivington determined to descend into the dark and filthy hole where the poor sufferers lay , but she was met by Harry , who gently but firmly refused her admittance . 
`` I have been below , '' he said . 
In pity to the bereaved mother , Harry spent some time below with her . 
She spoke with him freely , and even cheerfully . 
`` You do not seem , my good woman , '' remarked he one day , when they had been speaking of her bereaved state -- `` you do not seem to be as much prostrated by your loss as I feared you would be . '' 
Harry felt as if he could have shrugged his shoulders , but he contented himself with the reflection that her trust in the Lord had been but poorly answered . 
echoed Harry , looking around upon the wretched den , which he could not remain in a moment without a sensation of disgust , and then upon the emaciated form and face , the ragged clothes of the poor woman . 
Harry took it and turned over the leaves . 
inquired Harry , becoming interested . 
`` The Bible , '' thought Harry , `` is certainly useful in such a case as this . 
Thus a certain respect for the volume he had hitherto neglected with such indifference rose in his heart . 
He regarded it as he would have beheld some notorious quack doctor actually perform a remarkable cure . 
answered Harry . 
Harry looked at Miss Rivington with a certain embarrassment . 
`` I could hope Miss Rivington might pardon me , '' said Harry , `` for acknowledging my own deficiency . '' 
`` I should not pardon myself , '' continued he , `` were I to expose her to the contagion of bad example . '' 
`` Well , then , '' said Harry , frankly , `` I confess at once , that the only mystery in religion to me is , that any one of education and sense can be found to believe it . '' 
`` Mysticism , transcendentalism , and all the isms , '' said Harry , laughing , `` ca n't have any more incomprehensibleism than this . 
Harry was silent before the mild dogmatism of the amiable enthusiasts . 
He shrugged his shoulders while alone he paced the deck late that evening to enjoy his cigar . 
`` Thus it is , '' he thought , `` that education makes of men what it will : ` just as the twig is bent the tree 's inclined . ' 
he added , gloomily , after a long pause . 
A slight attempt had been made to pursue the same course towards Harry , but they were speedily satisfied that , however gay he might naturally be , he was not exactly the man to stand much quizzing from them . 
The bashful hesitation of the speaker disappeared as he proceeded , and Harry listened to his strong devotional language with an interest for which he could not account . 
Becoming accustomed , as he grew older , to analyze his feelings , he asked himself whence came his emotion . 
He did not believe the young preacher was right in his creed , or that the Creator , if , indeed , there were one , of the infinite system of things , cared or knew what was said or done in the globe itself , which , compared with the whole universe , is so inconceivably insignificant , far less what a few individuals were doing in an obscure spot of the globe ; yet , what was it which , during the earnest prayer , and more particularly during the succeeding sermon , enchained his attention , calmed his thoughts , elevated and broadened his mind , and thrilled his soul ? 
At this picture , Harry felt with singular force what a sublime , what a magnificent thing life would be if religion were true ! 
In the midst of the sermon and of Harry 's reflections , Doctor Mason and Barnett fell into a fit of laughing . 
Harry was standing by , and watched the manœuvre with considerable interest . 
It struck him , from the manner of the young bully , that he had the intention to offer an insult , although he could scarcely have expected to pick a quarrel with the most inoffensive and amiable of human beings . 
Harry had an idea he himself might be their next object . 
He had been delighted with the admirable manner in which Mr. Rivington had met their vulgar attacks . 
But Harry was young and hot , and he inwardly vowed to pursue a different course , should the least occasion present itself . 
Harry grew more and more happy . 
When he thought of home and Fanny Elton , his mind shaded over sometimes with sadness , but he found it every day more easy to shake off this amiable weakness , and to forget Miss Elton he resolved to make the first purpose of his life . 
What , with the various incidents of the ship , the anticipations of soon seeing England , and the attachment , each day more strong and familiar , which had mutually arisen between him and the Rivingtons , he had scarcely found time to think of ennui . 
As to the two persons last mentioned , he fairly loved them ; they appeared to love him also , and to enjoy a certain benevolent amusement in hearing his opinions , anticipations , and raptures about Europe . 
The approaching end of the voyage , and disembarcation at Portsmouth , and their return to the great , mighty , gigantic London , appeared to interest them less for themselves than for their pleasure in beholding the effect on him , as an old theatre-goer enjoys the amazement and delight of an intelligent child for the first time introduced into that magical scene , much more than he does the scene itself . 
Harry offered Miss Rivington his arm , and they began talking and pacing the deck . 
`` I think you said that you had been but little in the United States , '' remarked Harry , for he had long ago discovered his friends to be English . 
asked Harry , with all the frankness of a sea-friend in the last days of the voyage . 
asked she , smiling . 
`` Well , let me see , '' said Harry , thoughtfully , measuring with his eyes the quiet , noble form of the plainly-dressed but gentlemanly-looking person , who sat reading at a little distance . 
inquired Harry . 
`` What I am most interested in seeing , '' said Harry , `` is your distinguished persons . 
At this moment , just from their after-dinner wine , Dr. Mason and Mr. Barnett came on deck , and began pacing to and fro so as to meet Harry and his companion at every turn . 
Harry 's quick blood mounted . 
He rose with a frightful oath , and rushed upon Harry , who coolly knocked him down again . 
A second time he rose , and , with desperate rage , leaped again on his foe , but stopped short on beholding his cool , stern attitude and flashing eyes . 
`` Mason , come down stairs here , '' he cried , and , pulling his friend violently along , they descended into the cabin , to do , no one could conjecture what . 
A general exclamation of the passengers applauded the course of Harry , who did not seem at all flusteredby the circumstance . 
`` I 'll tell you , '' said Harry ; `` they 're gone down stairs , probably , for pistols . '' 
Harry read the challenge , and immediately referred the bearer to Mr. Rivington . 
`` You will be so good , '' said Harry to the latter , `` as to bring this affair to an immediate conclusion . '' 
`` Oh , I have pistols , '' remarked Harry ; `` I never travel without them , or part with them even when at home . 
`` Captain , '' said Harry , `` put a board up there , will you ? 
asked Barnett , with a hysterical attempt at a composed laugh , which died away , however , utterly from his lengthened , ugly countenance , when Harry , at a good , long distance , and apparently without any effort , sent the ball directly through the unhappy chalked head , for which Barnett exhibited more sympathy than he had probably ever before felt for anything in his life . 
exclaimed Harry , in a business-like tone ; `` let us try the other . '' 
He discharged it accordingly , and again the ball struck the unfortunate head , while a murmur of real admiration became audible among the delighted spectators , too happy in having the monotony of a sea-voyage relieved by such a scene . 
said Harry . 
`` Measure the ground , Rivington , '' exclaimed Harry , impatiently . 
His friend took ten short paces , and marked the positions with a piece of chalk . 
said Harry , taking his pistol and his place . 
`` I ca n't accept an apology , sir , '' said Harry , firmly . 
`` Your magnanimity , '' exclaimed Harry , `` is no more than I expected , and equals your courage . 
Harry gained `` golden opinions from all sorts of people . '' 
Captain , mates , crew , and passengers were enthusiastic in their admiration ; and as Master Barnett had not only received such lessons in his attempts at colloquial display , but had been so severely `` punished '' in another way , and as everybody saw in the exposed bully only an object of contempt and ridicule , it appeared to be universally understood , by tacit consent , that the tone of mock admiration assumed by Harry should be followed up . 
Every one took off his hat to them with a sweeping , profound salutation . 
Harry was in a state of exquisite excitement , more like an enchanting dream than sober reality , and opened as his heart was by these novel and delicious sensations , he gave vent to his feelings in all the eloquence of his nature , to the constant admiration and amusement of his more quiet friends the Rivingtons . 
These amiable people took extreme delight in his freshness of character , his intelligence and nobleness of disposition , which could never appear to more advantage . 
With a sort of incredulous rapture , he beheld at last that little bit of blue , the first dim herald of the mighty old Europe . 
The very turkeys , and hens , and sheep , had a contented look ; the very cock began to reassume his magisterial bearing -LRB- which , at one or two windy points of the passage , had been rather laid aside ! -RRB- 
Ah , what is there on this earth so delightful as the American 's first approach to England , his venerable and beloved mother ? 
Harry was giddy with delight as he beheld , at last , the soft , sweet shore close at his side , and heard the new -LRB- and yet so old ! -RRB- 
Scenes , bright as if just from the easel , met his eyes . 
Old castles covered with ivy , antique towns , orchards and roads , gardens and hills , vales and creeks , peaceful cot and opulent palace , foliage and flowers , rock and hill , steeped in shadow and sunshine , all soft as a vision , all harmonious as music , all beautiful and pure as Heaven itself ; and the land odours were upon the air , and the land sounds came floating to his ear , the barking of a dog , the lowing of a cow , and the ringing of a bell . 
exclaimed he , as Miss Rivington stood on one side of him and her father on the other , answering his questions , but not interrupting his enchantment by unbidden information , for they felt he was enjoying a rare sensation , perhaps granted only once or twice in a lifetime . 
`` Oh , '' cried he , while his handsome face was all lighted with soul , `` this isecstasy . 
`` I protest , '' said Harry , `` that the spirits of the past seem hovering around me in the air and welcoming me to these renowned and hallowed shores . 
If these rhapsodies read rather wild on shore , they had no such appearance in the high-wrought excitement which reigned around him , nor did the Rivingtons see in them other than the manifestations of a clever , ingenuous , and very warm-hearted young man under circumstances well-calculated to awaken lively emotions . 
The usual visit of the government officer was made , a pretty , yacht-like boat was sent by the packet agent to bring the passengers ashore , and Harry , with a thrill , at length placed his foot on English ground . 
His pleasure was a little dampened by the necessary separation from the Rivingtons , who said they had friends in Portsmouth , where they should first repair ; that they might possibly go up to London without delay . 
The unfortunate parents were not forgotten by Harry in his whirl of delightful sensations . 
He inquired particularly where they were going to put up , what their prospects were , and what they were going to do . 
He found he had been , however , anticipated by Rivington , who , besides a rather ample donation of glittering English gold , had given them his address in London , with a promise to do something for them . 
`` This Rivington is really a fine fellow , and a true Englishman , '' said Harry to himself , as he took possession of his room at the Ship Hotel . 
Harry had brought Mr. Seers up with him . 
That excellent young man , although he regarded him as a mere enthusiast , was so pure , sincere , and intelligent , that he could not have wished a more agreeable companion . 
The fact is , so perfectly happy were they , that Harry spouted with Othello , `` If it were now to die , ` Twere now to be most happy ; for I fear My soul hath her content so absolute , That not another comfort like to this Succeeds in unknown fate ; '' while Seers , who , when brought out , was full of sensibility and humour , proposed , with half-sincere gravity , to proceed no farther in their travels , but spend the rest of their lives happily at the Ship Hotel . 
Harry retired to his room , to sleep for the first time in a foreign country ; but he could not sleep . 
The transcendent loveliness of the night , the cloudless sky , burning and glittering all over with stars , the only familiar objects which reminded him of home , the broad , full moon just opposite his window , slowly ascending up the hushed and magnificent heavens , and the soft air wafting into his apartment the land odours of which he had been so long deprived , disposed his mind for tender revery . 
He sat by the window , he knew not how long , lost in silent , sweet thought , fond dreams of the past and images of home mingling with vague , high aspirations of future bliss . 
Only the idea of Fanny Elton awakened a discord in the general harmony , which seemed to wrap earth , the heavens , and his own soul in one tranquil emotion of tender delight . 
he thought , `` if to all this I could be convinced you were not unworthy ! 
And he gazed and gazed , lover-like , lost in a tide of soft associations . 
`` It is nonsense , '' at length he said : `` it is but a boyish weakness . 
As he spoke he perceived the sky had changed its appearance . 
Notwithstandinghis romantic night reveries , Harry was up , refreshed , and in scarcely repressible spirits , in time to partake with Seers of as good a breakfast as the most respectful of landlords could provide for the most hungry of guests , and which in no way impaired the agreeable state of his sensations . 
The day was again one of those preternaturally bright ones with which Nature blesses the foggy , `` sea-girt isle '' at this season , as if in compensation for her indifferent generosity during the rest of the year . 
and such a famous lunch as they took , and such a fluttering at the heart as Harry experienced as they approached London , and such an immense , endless , black , crowded , busy , stupendous sort of place as it seemed to be , and such glances as he cast around him to see any one who might be Moore , or Wellington , or the king ; and , in short , if the reader have any sort of experience in the composition of this sort of historical narrative , he must see at once that to describe it all is impossible . 
This , however , Harry himself was afterward heard to confess , that he was as much astonished on seeing Piccadilly and Hyde Park Corner , as the boy in the story was on being shown , for the first time , the useful and celebrated letter A ! 
Harry first indulged himself in a short walk , in which , somewhat to his disappointment , though he knew all the while how ridiculous it was , he did not see St. Paul 's , Drury Lane , Westminster Abbey , Windsor Palace , the Parliament House , the Tower , and the Monument all standing together in a row to be looked at , and in which , although he met many people , he did not see O'Connell , or Lord Byron , or Shakspeare , or Scott , or Lord Chatham , or Falstaff , or Richard the Third , did n't have his pockets picked , and did n't , in short , meet with any astounding adventures whatever . 
Having hunted up his address , which Harry had taken in his pocketbook , and inquired the proper calling hour , they repaired to Grosvenor-street . 
echoed Harry . 
Seers was for going back at once , but Harry had a different idea . 
he inquired . 
`` Yes , yes , '' replied Harry , not quite concealing his astonishment . 
I have no desire to -- '' `` No , let us go in , '' said Harry . 
Harry had seen luxury before , but he was rather curious to see how the distinguished nobleman , whom he had been so very free and easy with for the last few weeks , would receive his humble travelling companions in their own character . 
cap and ostritch-feathers , and velvet robes , do you think , '' said Harry , laughing , `` like a stage nobleman ? '' 
`` No , no , '' said Harry , laughing , and holding him by the arm . 
The door was opened , and the object of their fears entered with a rapid step and a delighted smile , and , taking the hand of each in succession , but first of Seers , in both of his , said : `` I beg a thousand pardons for detaining you . 
`` I 'm very well , your lordship , very well indeed , '' said Seers , with the most unlimited blush he had ever been seen to produce . 
`` You have deceived us , '' said Harry . 
`` A part of it , '' said Harry . 
Seers bowed and blushed , and got himself more at ease on the chair , which before he had scarcely touched . 
`` You have given us such a pretty romantic adventure , '' said Harry , `` that forgetfulness for the future is quite out of the question . '' 
`` Yes , '' said Harry ; `` and I believe I have the honour of bringing you a letter of introduction . '' 
And a light , laughing , lively conversation of several minutes ensued , in which both Harry and Seers were unconsciously made to bear a part , and in which they already felt as much at their ease as when chatting on the deck of their old packet-ship . 
Harry , however , though fascinated , rose to go , and the earl said : `` What ! 
`` With the greatest pleasure , '' said Harry , while Seers blushed and bowed in speechless astonishment and delight at his previous fears of English aristocratic society . 
Harry had learned to love this young man for his purity and gentleness , his warm heart and intelligent mind , which , though he was totally unacquainted with the world , was richly stored with the knowledge to be derived from books . 
Harry approached him with feeling , while Seers wept in silence . 
murmured he . 
and he repeated the word , as if he had forgotten all other things in that tremendous idea . 
An interesting scene followed , in which Harry manifested the deepest sympathy and attempted to offer consolation . 
For a moment Harry hesitated , almost apprehensive lest the sudden and violent shock might lead to some act of desperation ; but , on looking at the face of his unfortunate friend , his streaming and upraised eyes , and the tranquil resignation which even acute anguish did not deprive him of , he felt ashamed of his suspicion , and still more ashamed of the manner in which he himself had met the first -LRB- and , compared with the present affliction of Seers , how insignificant ! -RRB- 
shock he had received from the displeasure of Miss Elton , when he for a moment proposed to terminate his existence . 
He went out , therefore , and , his heart swelling with compassion , left him alone . 
The whole of that day and the next Seers kept his chamber , refusing to receive even his friend . 
In the afternoon of the third day , however , he sent for Harry , and met him with a calm and even cheerful smile . 
A Bible lay open before him . 
`` Well , my dear Mr. Lennox , it is over , '' said he ; and , though his eyes were continually wet , he did not weep . 
Harry saw it relieved him to speak , and he , therefore , suffered him to go on without interruption . 
As he now raised his face , beaming with hope and pleasure , he addressed him with feeling and sincerity on the subject of his loss . 
`` But , after all , '' continued he , `` notwithstanding your grief , how happy you are ! 
`` Here , '' said Seers , laying his hand on the Bible , `` I find consolation for all grief , solution to all mystery , advice for every situation . 
Harry shook his head . 
Harry listened with respectful attention and interest . 
`` What do you mean , '' inquired he , `` for I am very ignorant on this subject , by the scheme of Christianity extending from the beginning of the world ? 
but I 'll tell you what , '' he added , cheerfully , `` you shall go through a course of religious reading with me ; it will not , believe me , be either a dull or a sad task . 
It will relieve me '' -LRB- and his eyes were full of tears while he spoke -RRB- `` from a weak indulgence of grief , and I venture to hope you will either make me an infidel , or I shall convert you into a Christian . '' 
`` Yes , but , '' said Harry , `` I have already examined ; I have read the Bible continuously through ; I have read Newton , Butler , and all that sort of thing . '' 
From whatever secret association , there was nothing which repelled Harry more than phrases quoted in conversation from the Scriptures . 
Strong in yet undisappointed hope and buoyant happiness , he felt a disagreeable impression from the sight of his friend 's sorrow , nor was he pleased with the prediction of evil to himself . 
He therefore only replied : `` My good friend , you know I have come abroad to see Europe -- not to study what I might better have studied at home . 
said he : `` I trust myself to Him who made time . '' 
And so they parted , poor Seers to his sad thoughts and spiritual consolations ; Harry to a scene of brilliant gayety and novel delight , which might well have dazzled an older person , and over his anticipations of which the light shadow caused by the grief and the prediction of Seers passed immediately away . 
It was communicated in a letter from his father , but in a style so different from his usual gayety , that the manner shocked Harry almost as much as the matter . 
The letter was not long , but , after simply detailing the event , their horror and wonder , concluded by requesting him to remain abroad , as it was the advice of the physician and the intention of Mr. Lennox to bring his wife and Mary to Europe in the course of the autumn . 
But for this injunction , Harry , in his anguish , would have sailed for New-York in the next ship . 
The blow was almost too much for him . 
He staggered into his room on finishing the letter , blind with tears , stunned , and in an agony of horror and despair . 
He could not believe it . 
Harry had become a familiar and very favourite guest in the family of his benevolent and distinguished old travelling companion , before the affecting intelligence of his brother 's death had reached him . 
The high polish and thorough acquaintance with the world of the English nobleman , combined with his cultivated mind , open , warm heart , and easy manners , had presented to Harry something so fascinating , that he not only admired , but learned to love him almost as a father , and the freshness , intelligence , and ingenuousness of the young American , his warmth of heart , strength of mind , and straightforward sincerity and honesty of character , combined with -LRB- for so young a man -RRB- very considerable attainments and particularly pleasing manners and person , charmed the earl into an intimacy which became gradually a friendship . 
Long before the dreadful blow had fallen upon him , Harry had unbosomed himself to his illustrious host , who knew all about him , his unlucky affair with Miss Elton , his affectionate family relations , his generous , warm-hearted father , Frank 's prompt and spirited character , and even little Seth 's difficulties in finding a commodious resting-place for his hands and feet . 
When in some degree recovered from the first effects of the appalling calamity which had fallen upon his family , and in pursuance of the advice and request of his father to wait in Europe , Harry resolved to spend a year or two in seeing England , Scotland , Ireland , and Wales , and carried the plan into effect thoroughly , with great benefit to his mind , but not without a perceptible change in his health and happiness . 
He had found it impossible to bear , with anything like the philosophy of which he had been somewhat previously in the habit of boasting , the loss of Frank in such a way . 
No philosophy but one can afford consolation to grief for the dead without hardening the heart and narrowing the mind , and Harry was far too sensible and affectionate to seek relief in flippant forgetfulness or selfish pleasure . 
In these two years his character had altered as much as his appearance . 
He had grown thin and pale . 
Death , the most tremendous of thoughts , had entered his mind ; he had several times since his departure seen its effects upon others , but now it presented itself to him in a new aspect . 
He loved his brother so , he had been so much with him , all his plans and thoughts of life were so interwoven with him , that Frank formed a part of the world , of nature , in his imagination . 
Harry was not one of those . 
He felt he could never forget , never recover from the shock . 
He could never be to others what he was ; the world could never be what it had been to him . 
But it was not grief alone from which he suffered ; it was not only his heart which had been struck A new idea , and the most mighty and startling of all ideas to those who are not wholly possessed by mere vulgar , visible things , had entered his mind . 
His meditations thus aroused , he saw , with horror , could never again be laid at rest . 
Death had been revealed to him ; the scales had fallen from his eyes ; the universe had become a new universe to him ; the real had been transformed into the unreal . 
All the pomp and promise of the world had shrunk to a theatric spectacle ; those he loved , to empty visions , destined to vanish at any moment ; himself to an insect without any just value or rational object . 
This state of mind prevented all the expected enjoyment of his year 's travel , and counteracted , in a great degree , the desire of self-cultivation . 
Even grief for the loss he had sustained seemed a weakness , for why weep for or continue to love that which does not , which never can exist ? 
Exhausted by these reflections , he at length found a certain relief in the languor by which they were succeeded , though this languor itself soon became almost insupportable . 
In his desire to escape it he consulted a physician . 
Harry sighed . 
So Harry accepted the earl 's invitation , and resolved to seek excitement . 
He had been too much with his own thoughts . 
The affair of the duel had absorbed him . 
He had not yet learned the details , and he could not imagine them . 
He seemed to be the sport , indeed , of a destiny equally cruel and capricious . 
First Miss Elton , whom he loved , and who , on mature reflection , he could not but believe loved him , had chosen to cast him off with unconcealed scorn . 
Glendenning , too , against whom , at first , the general indignation had run high , began to be regarded , not as a libertine who spent `` His rich opinion For the name of a night-brawler , '' In the mean while everybody was introduced to everybody , and everybody talked to everybody about all sorts of things , and each individual of our party would have thought of these Harry had listened with apparent attention , though in silence , without taking any share in them . 
At length , gliding carelessly from subject to subject , they fell into a debate upon pistol-firing ; and one person , who had spoken a great deal , and with the authoritative air of one accustomed rather to decide than to debate questions , asserted that he had acquired a perfection of aim not surpassable . 
`` I tell you what , my lord , '' said the earl , still anxious to bring forward his young friend , `` I believe you are a practised hand , but I will not allow that you are either infallible or unsurpassable ; and I 'll undertake to find a shot at least your equal , if not your superior . '' 
After ordering pistols , and the necessary preparations to be made upon the lawn before the door , the earl related the incident which had occurred between Harry and Barnett on their voyage across the Atlantic . 
The story was admirably told , and brought Harry at once into the foreground . 
Harry stepped forward , and fired without any pause . 
His ball lodged in the breast , within two inches of the heart . 
But while he was playing off in advance the modest airs of a conqueror , Harry stepped forward with somewhat more care , and aimed with a steadier eye . 
She presented with Mary the rare spectacle of a young lady decidedly prettier than her friend , yet without believing so herself ; while Mary , equal in character , if not `` I hope I am not bloodthirsty , '' answered Harry , `` nor will I , under any circumstances , go one step out of my way to meet the man who killed my brother . 
Harry had declared he never would , under any circumstances , step out of his way to seek him who had caused his brother 's death , but that only in case of being accidentally thrown into his society would he act -LRB- and action , under such circumstances , was rather a serious business ! -RRB- 
He had , then , but to quietly disengage himself from so dangerous a companion , and he inwardly resolved to leave B -- Hall on some occasion , real or feigned , with as little delay as possible . 
`` Go on , '' said Harry , gravely . 
Middleton breathed more freely , and taking Harry by the hand , said , `` I need not add , my young friend , how sincerely I sympathize with you ; how sincerely , indeed , I have sympathized with you long before I knew you . '' 
A few days subsequently Harry received letters from home . 
His father , mother , and Mary had also written . 
He could not refrain from tears as he reflected with what perfect happiness he would have had the precious treasures completed by one from Frank . 
Harry was requested to continue his travels , to visit the Continent , to see what was to be seen , preparatory to a final return and a serious business career . 
He was , indeed , rather struck with the earnestness of his father 's letter on this subject . 
His mother 's letter was short , and written as with the tremulous hand of an invalid . 
The sight of it affected him strangely ; it was full of an affection , which he felt had concentrated upon him with more force since his brother 's death , and it closed with an earnest appeal that , amid his other studies , he would not neglect the most important study of all . 
he murmured , `` how happy are you in such a soothing , such a holy illusion . 
For two years he had been subdued by grief for the dead , a gloomy , hopeless , helpless grief . 
He often thought it insupportable . 
He resolved once more to read , not only law , but , as his mother had recommended , Christianity . 
His breast was sad , but calm ; his sky was dark , but it almost seemed as if the morning were going to break . 
He did not believe , but he admired ; he saw no truth , but he began to discover beauty , mystery , and sublimity ; he wished for faith . 
Frank 's death had overshadowed him . 
He felt how much of his happiness had depended upon that which an instant had borne away . 
The dead , cold breath of the tomb had chilled him , and he saw he could never altogether shake its icy horror from his heart . 
What guarantee had he that father , mother , sister , and that Fanny Elton , would not , also , die before his return ? 
Why might not one , why might not all be torn from him , and what would be his state of mind then ? 
Upon these he had built his hope , his happiness : alas ! 
then he had built his happiness and his hope upon air ! 
he murmured , `` if Christianity were true ! 
With these opinions , it is not remarkable that his heart grew sadder and sadder every day ; that life appeared a mockery , and virtue , even while he loved it , an idle dream . 
The first person he met on his way to the table was Harry Lennox . 
There were few men he would not rather have seen . 
`` My lord , '' said Harry , `` I 'm delighted ! 
from the rest of the company to pursue , without interruption , her plan of awakening his attention to the subject of religion , the whole party returned to the house , where , after a slight repast , Mrs. Lennox reminded them they might expect her husband and Harry by the noon boat . 
A few moments after their arrival they discovered a light cloud of ascending smoke and steam peering over the summit of a green hill , then the plunging strokes of the wheels and panting of the engine , and immediately the large and stately vessel , more like a floating palace than a boat , darted from behind a projecting angle of black , broken rock , with the well-known barge cleaving the foamy flood at its side , and containing the three figures of Mr. Lennox , Harry , and Mr. Emmerson . 
`` But what 's the matter with you , Harry ? '' 
Never so well and so gay in my life , '' said Harry , rousing himself from a revery . 
Had I not just seen you touch his hand in kindness , and speak to him -- him , of all human beings -- with a smile on your face -- '' `` I do not know what you mean , '' said Harry . 
`` I am not likely to credit the insinuations of one , '' cried Harry , `` who has already , in regard to himself -- '' He stopped , unable to proceed . 
`` But know , sir , '' he added , after a pause , `` that while you so meanly attack Lord Middleton , you liveonly by his sufferance . 
demanded Harry . 
cried Harry , turning his flashing eyes on Middleton . 
Harry folded his arms , pale and agitated , for the conviction was now clear to him that there had been some foul play in the matter , and that he was about to have it laid open before him . 
remarked Harry , with a grave mildness , which made Middleton turn yet paler . 
suggested Harry . 
`` Whether he be so or not , is the question we are to investigate , '' replied Harry . 
interrupted Harry , sternly , with a look and gesture of command , which made his distinguished companion start and knit his brow . 
Harry 's heart beat thick with the new train of thought so suddenly awakened , and he silently drew up his tall form and folded his arms , to gaze upon each one of those three dark men , among whom rested the guilt of his brother 's death ; for guilt , it was now evident , there had been somewhere . 
As he stood , like a judge with the power to doom , the whole subject of Frank 's death appeared conjured up again in his imagination in all its original distinctness , and the idea of vengeanceonce more , like a demon , took possession of him . 
His agitation was increased by the demeanour of Glendenning , who , without any trace of the fiery , high-tempered youth of eighteen months ago , scarcely lifted his eyes , till , at length , as if no longer able to suppress his emotion , he prostrated himself upon the very floor at Harry 's feet , and wept . 
cried Harry . 
It touched both Harry and White . 
at length demanded Harry . 
Harry rose and walked up to Middleton . 
demanded Harry . 
`` Captain White , Captain Glendenning , I request your company in my room , '' said Harry . 
In the mean time Harry had heard the whole story , heightened by the cool recollection of White , and the agitation and anguish of the forever ruined and heart-broken Glendenning . 
We have seen Harry , from his high-wrought temper , on the eve of suicide , lashed into insanity by the frown of a girl . 
He looked down on his victims and their avengers ; and a thought added fury to Harry 's mind , that he himself , had he appeared to him as a stranger , had he not been presented to him by even no less a person than the Earl of Rivington , he too would have been treated with that contempt with which the haughty and inflated Middleton chose to regard all mankind beneath him in rank . 
`` It is left for me , then , '' thought Harry , as he paced his room , `` to teach this proud villain a lesson . 
Harry did not even attempt any letters or other arrangements . 
He sat by an open window that looked abroad over the desert square and hushed city , steeped in moonlight and peopled only with those vague , blended , harmonious sounds , which float -- unresting echoes of the day -- over the dim night masses of a great city . 
There was no fearin his bosom . 
Life was not dear to him , and death was not terrible . 
The one had been already scathed with two blows of fortune , than which he thought none could be more crushing and insupportable : the fading of his earliest , only dream of love , and the loss of a brother for whom his affection was tender and strong . 
`` They are welcome , '' said Harry , gravely . 
Harry himself had nothing to do but float with the stream . 
Before he knew it , he was standing , with a pistol in his hand , on a green lawn by the road-side , in the silver light of daybreak , ten paces in front of the pale and silent Middleton . 
Harry stood motionless , looking down on that once haughty form , now prostrate , and which , after turning twice over , lay on its back , the face staring wildly upward , at his very feet . 
cried Harry . 
His voice sounded strange -- like that of ons who addresses an immense , listening multitude . 
With the smoke in his nostril -- the thunder surging in his ear -- his hand benumbed with the thrill of so unaccustomed a deed -- his head reeling and the ground moving under his feet , Harry stood , still motionless , looking down on his victim , and only repeated , `` Lord Middleton is not dead ! '' 
`` Yes , '' said Harry . 
said Harry , `` and I have done my duty . '' 
His arm dropped without strength to his side . 
The carriage drew up , and he got in , but his eyes , as if by a fatal fascination , were riveted upon the form which , with stark , marble face , the blood-drenched clothes torn and cut from the naked breast , the convulsive hands clutched full of grass and earth , had already received the eternal seal of death . 
Harry returned their salutations calmly , and in a few moments the spot was left far behind him , and the deed was written among the irrevocable , ineffaceable records of the past . 
replied his father ; `` why here -- Frank commander-in-chief , with his eyebrows and whiskers a little more bushy , if possible ; and Harry a senator or secretary of state . '' 
This duty performed , Harry set off upon his travels , whither we shall not follow him . 
He extended his tour as far and with the design of occupying as much time as possible . 
The letters he received from home were heart-rending . 
Those from his mother affected him profoundly , more from their subdued , deep melancholy , than from their allusions to the new calamity which had fallen upon her . 
With a characteristic gentleness , she spared him all reproaches , and she even assured him that she had borne the blow with a patience which could only have come from above . 
Their visit to Europe was still deferred , and Harry still lingered in the East , examining into the state of those interesting countries , which to the European have almost the awful solemnity of a previous world . 
From Greece , Turkey , Syria , and Egypt , spending a winter or a summer first in one town , then in another , according to the caprice of the moment or the relief he found in any particular place , or from any particular person or study , he went over into Russia , and occupied himself with the various peculiarities of that vast empire , sometimes plunging into the splendid gayeties of the court circles , and sometimes loitering in the retreats of the nobles , or watching with interest the modes of life and mind among the serfs . 
But -LRB- let not the reader start , for he will one day find his own life has passed even thus unheeded away -RRB- all this travelling and studying , these winterings in one part of the globe and summeringsin another , took time , and when Harry , one winter , settled himself in a comfortable lodging at Florence to consider what he would do next , he happened to calculate how long he had been abroad , and he found , with a very considerable surprise , which recalled the amazement of his father on reaching his fiftieth birthday , that he had been absent from home ten years . 
He started to perceive so much of his life had vanished , and his conscience smote him for having remained so long away from his father and mother , deprived as they were , too , of Frank , and by so frightful an accident . 
Those of his father had recently grown shorter and more vague , and , at length , announced that circumstances had obliged him to abandon entirely his contemplated European tour , and that Harry might turn his step homeward . 
The reader must imagine the tenour of his mother 's letters , although it was evident she did not allow herself to give way to all her feelings . 
Emmerson , on the contrary , wrote at full , and it was on the strength of his representations that Harry had remained so long abroad . 
He assured him that everybody was well , that he had hopes , notwithstanding the proposed abandonment of the European tour , that the next summer would see the whole family in Paris , and that all was going on as usual . 
These frequent epistles from Emmerson , written in an affectionate and confidential manner , were very grateful to Harry . 
Harry had devoted a great part of his time in Germany to philosophy , and philosophy led him to religion , or , rather , to irreligion . 
Harry read it , and , for a time , the triumph of discovering so able a champion of his own views threw around the subject a sort of wonder and delight . 
Harry left it on the table a long time untouched . 
He was afraid to open it ; he felt he had no strength in himself to bear any shock . 
they had left him . 
They had gone with his youth and thoughtlessness , his iron nerves , his round cheek , his careless forehead , and unshaded heart . 
At length he took the mute messenger . 
My heart yearns to embrace you , my dear Harry . 
Although Harry 's hand literally trembled at this astounding intelligence , he hastened to open his father 's letter . 
I am no enthusiast , my dear Harry . 
Harry ` sastonishment , on the perusal of these letters , was too great for expression . 
He sent instantly for the doctor again , and earnestly pleaded the necessity of immediately starting for New-York . 
He was met by an inexorable negative . 
He was too weak to move at all , under six weeks at least , and by no means could he yet venture upon a sea-voyage . 
The anxiety of the patient , so far from persuading , only confirmed his merry little tyrant of a doctor in his decision . 
`` My story is sad , '' said Harry , `` and , perhaps , you ought to know it . 
said Harry . 
`` I will tell you , '' said Harry , `` in the fewest possible words . 
Harr looked rather grave , and raised his eyes to the countenance of the fat , gay , frisky little man who presumed to jest at the confidence he had required in his professional character , but the doctor looked so equally indifferent to his wrath or his sadness , and so excessively cool and knowing , that his frown changed into a smile , although rather a melancholy one . 
`` In Dresden , some years ago , '' continued Harry , who felt a certain relief in unbosoming himself , `` I met the person who had caused the slaughter of my brother . 
`` If I could really think , '' said Harry , `` that my melancholy was physical , and removable by physical remedies ! '' 
Justrisen from what he had considered a death-bed , Harry was not in a mood to be particularly impressed with the easy philosophy of the little doctor . 
This letter determined Harry to remain , and he wrote his father , accordingly , that a slight indisposition would detain him some months longer in Europe , but that in the summer he should at length turn his steps homeward . 
The next six weeks he spent alone , reading the `` History of Christianity , '' and the other volumes which his mother had given him . 
A strange , deep , absorbing curiosity , mingled with a hope inexpressibly cheerful and sublime , urged him on in this new study . 
He entered upon it with very different emotions from those with which he had undertaken it on board the packet ship , when , with only one faint cloud over his life , he had looked forward to a brilliant tour and perfect happiness . 
Then he was young , healthy , rich , selfconfident , in the highest possible spirits ; now he was in a far different situation and in a far different mood of mind . 
Ten years of experience and reflection had caused him to regard life and the world as a bubble . 
Grief had gone into his soul . 
He had shed blood ; he had felt guilt ; he had seen the strength depart from his limbs and the brightness from his heart ; he had seen , he had felt , he had inflicted death ; he had himself stood on the awful brink , and he now asked of man , of earth , of heaven , and of his own deep soul , what came after , or what resources the Creator had granted mortals to pass through the last dread scene . 
As Harry followed the course of this zigzag road , he looked from the window upon the ever fresh and beautiful face of nature , and hailed the resplendent scene with an emotion as new as it was delicious and indescribable . 
He felt as if he were just born . 
He began , at least , to have an idea what it was to be born again . 
For years he had ceased to admire nature , or to regard it as other than a false and lying cheat , a sweet accident , a fair and cruel illusion . 
Harry at once placed himself under his care . 
The second morning after his arrival , Dr. K -- paid him his first professional visit . 
Harry explained his bodily sensations . 
He obeyed . 
A stream of light fell upon his face as the eyes of his examiner were fixed upon him . 
Harry almost blushed as he stood the long , deliberate , searching scrutiny of those eyes , which , piercing into each line and feature , at length seemed to gaze through his own , and to read the secret thoughts of his soul . 
`` That , doctor , '' said Harry , `` you can tell better than I. '' And he proceeded with frankness , as he had done to Doctor B -- , to relate his feelings and opinions , with the various circumstances of the last ten years which had led to them , and particularly the state of mind into which he had fallen respecting religion . 
Harry felt an ineffable delight at hearing these words . 
The infidel example of Harry 's father had produced a powerful influence in his younger years . 
He had unconsciously stood upon that in his skepticism . 
Now that it was removed , and his father himself had acknowledged his error , the contrary effect became instantly visible in his new desire to examine . 
Harry was charmed to find one so much older and wiser than himself , one stamped by the voice of fame as a man , not only of sense and knowledge , but of genius , regarding his blind gropings after truths , which no one else cared about , with lively sympathy and a friendly desire to assist . 
In the mean time , Harry went on studying industriously . 
He read , for the first time , in connexion with the prophecies , a History of the Jews , which filled him , as well it might , with awful amazement . 
Harry was thus , at last , engaged in a very important investigation , under extremely favourable circumstances . 
His mind was enlarged by travel , reflection , and study . 
His heart was purified by grief and softened by self-reproach . 
He had , for the time , leisure and exemption from those pressing cares which keep most men 's minds for years in one daily routine , and he had at his side a very remarkable man , belonging to a profession not easily led away by enthusiasm , a man of talent , celebrity , calmness , and learning , fully believing in Christianity , and also at leisure and ready to reply to his inquiries . 
Their very hats and coats outlast them , and yet , one in ten thousand , like Harry , and he only when startled into it by an extraordinary chain of events , thinks of really examining , with any degree of interest , into the life , deeds , and claims of the sublime Being who receives the worship of modern civilization ; at whose name so many adoring nations bend the knee ; whose coming was heralded so many thousand years by the voice of prophecy and the murmur of human expectation ; at whose appearance the most stupendous fabrics of mortal strength dissolved into air , and not only temples and towers , but thrones and systems vanished like vapours before the rising sun ; whose calm words have penetrated to the remotest parts of the earth , and will penetrate to the most distant period of time ; to whom so many millions and millions of dying eyes have been turned when all things else were shrouded in night ; and who has left in men 's possession proofs of his existence , of his power , of his works , of his origin , of his design , as unanswerable as those of any inscrutable truth of science , the sun 's light or the comet 's speed . 
Thewaters of Carlsbad , under such propitious circumstances , rapidly and completely re-established Harry 's health . 
His happiness , with the exception of some painful thoughts , was in a still more remarkable manner restored by the elevating moral influence of his new opinions . 
With each delightful day he brought to the doctor some new , or , rather , some old , objection against the Bible , and he continued to be amazed at the satisfactory manner in which all these were explained . 
`` But confess , '' rejoined Harry , `` that if Christianity has its Newtons and its Butlers , infidelity has its Humes , Gibbons , Paines , Volneys , and Strausses . '' 
`` But there is something convincing , '' rejoined Harry , `` there is something staggering in the clear , practical , searching , and sensible views of Strauss . 
`` Yet , '' resumed Harry , after a pause , `` I confess a doubt occasionally comes over me , when I see whole nations , like Germany and France , reject Christianity , and when I see that , after it has been in the world more than eighteen hundred years , such men as Strauss , Hume , Gibbon , and that school , openly ridicule it . '' 
Ourlimits , and the plan of this work , do not permit us to follow the various conversations of the learned believer and the young tyro , whose habits of skepticism still sometimes clung to him , who guarded himself as far as possible from every impulse of enthusiasm , and who yielded each lingering doubt only when reason showed it was without foundation . 
Nor , even could we relate them , did these conversations embrace half the arguments in confirmation of that truthwhich had dawned upon Harry 's mind the moment he commenced an examination in the right spirit . 
In the midst of his researches his estimable friend was suddenly struck with a dangerous illness , which in a few days was declared incurable . 
For a time the physician refused Harry , as well as crowds of other friends , admission to the sick-chamber , but at length , when the immediate and fatal termination of the disorder became apparent , they no longer opposed an interview . 
Harry was , accordingly , admitted to the presence of the person who , but a day or two before , had been striding with him up those bright mountain walks in all the vigour of life . 
He was altered shockingly , so much so , indeed , as to be scarcely recognisable . 
His attenuated features , pallid complexion , large , sunken , terrible eyes , were enough to frighten a stouter heart . 
Harry , for a few moments , felt as if he should be unable to support the approaching awful spectacle . 
His desire , however , to make some remark or request was so apparent , that the nurse suggested various observations , to each of which he replied by a scarce perceptible shake of the head . 
inquired Harry , with tearful eyes . 
And the smile with which he saw that , at length , he was understood , seemed full of peace and happiness . 
Even while it lingered on his lips he fell asleep . 
inquired Harry . 
Harry read a part of the Gospel of St. John . 
The dying man looked up to him gratefully when he had finished . 
`` I am going , '' he said , `` I am passing away . 
-LSB- 1 -RSB- He fell back with a smile . 
`` And this , '' thought Harry , `` is Death . 
Thelast day he was to spend at Carlsbad was a bland , still , and most delicious one . 
Harry was strong and in calm spirits again . 
His nerves were tranquillized , his head clear , his heart light , his hopes high . 
Periods of great depression he had suffered while reflecting on the dark deed he had committed , but he found in the volume to which he had now been taught to look for consolation and guidance , so many promises of pardon to those who asked it in the proper spirit , that his whole soul floated in an element of pure happiness . 
For the last time , he wandered about the exquisite promenades of this delightful spot . 
He mounted the steep hills ; he folded his arms , and gazed in mute rapture on the enchanting views . 
He entered the solitary , sombre woods , and looked down on the broad tract of splendid scenery which , dotted with towns and villages , lay unrolled beneath his feet like a map . 
He breathed the fragrant air of the mountains ; he heard the voices of the falling brooks and the warbling birds ; he beheld the streams of sunshine pouring richly into the dark glades and tranquil valleys , the silky clouds scattered in soft groups about in the air , and it seemed to him that his immortal soul , long lost in a blind sleep and a dark and terrible dream , had been just returned to him . 
All his oppressive gloom had passed away . 
He looked around him with the calm grandeur of an immortal being just setting out in its career of ages , scarcely treading with mortal feet the rolling earth ; destined to soar above death itself , and to continue , in spite of the clouds of earth , its cares or its disappointments , a course of happiness without end . 
The whole day he remained upon the mountains . 
He watched the setting sun descend , and the silver moon rise broad and silent from the opposite hills . 
He beheld the stars one after the other become visible , and he listened to the strains of a band of music which rose softened from below , mingled with the voices of children playing in the fields . 
We drop the veil over the mind and heart of him who , through ignorance , error , solitude , and sickness , through grief for the dead , crime , unhappiness , despair , and profound thought , had receded a step from the world and approached the throne of his Creator . 
Harry 's prospects on earth were but sad . 
He could not be certain that sorrow did not await him at home . 
He had reason to fear events had stripped him of all his earthly fortune . 
The object of his affection was , he did not doubt , already united to another . 
His father was ill . 
He knew not what painful discoveries awaited him on reaching America , and yet he was calm . 
His love for each object of affection was increased , but at the same time he had become more brave and more trusting ; he no longer relied on himself . 
He was no longer tossed by the waves of his own ungovernable passions . 
He no longer felt himself the sport of chance : a new confidence , a new dignity had entered his soul . 
Who shall tell the change which had already taken place in his character ? 
Harry was on the sea . 
Europe had sunk behind him with its mighty forms and lessons . 
He had been away ten years . 
It appeared but yesterday that his mother had made such a remark at breakfast . 
As the voyage drew near its close , various emotions filled his mind . 
Since his departure he had learned two grave lessons . 
First , that he could never be happy without religion ; second , a life spent abroad must be , at least to him , a melancholy one . 
He felt the want of a thousand nameless influences which exist only at home . 
Let no one who is wise and good choose to live absent from his country : it either spoils the character or overshadows the happiness . 
These thoughts passed through Harry 's mind as he stood gazing upon the heaving waste of ocean over which he was ploughing his way towards the scenes so cherished in his memory -- towards persons now beloved more than ever . 
Thrilling and sweet to him who has been but a few months away from his native shores , but , to such a wanderer as Harry , an enchantment beyond expression , but full of fearful interest , only calmed by the effort of a great mind -- great , because God had breathed upon it a portion of his strength and spirit . 
It was the brightest day that ever shone -- at least it seemed so to Harry -- as the sun began to decline from his noonday glory , and to mingle with his white beams the soft , yellow , Claude-like light of the afternoon . 
Other ships , great and small , were around them , coming and going ; and he was struck by a magnificent steamer on her way to England . 
Harry took up a newspaper , but laid it down again ; he could not read it . 
His eyes were fastened to the advancing shores . 
that these leaning meadows were his native land ? 
that , after looking on Jerusalem and Egypt , he was , at last , close to Staten Island and Long Island ? 
cried Harry . 
But Harry was already seated in the stern of the little boat , his heart going like a high-pressure steam-engine . 
Harry looked back once at the ship . 
He was already near the Whitehall wharf , where , ten years ago , he had embarked . 
said Harry . 
and then returning , stopped his way by stooping down to the floor to clasp his legs and kiss his feet , trembling all over with joy and attachment . 
A beautiful woman , whom Harry for one instant positively did not know , threw herself next into his arms , with `` My dearest , beloved brother ! '' 
Harry , my boy ! 
His father appeared much altered -- much , mucholder . 
And `` Harry ! '' 
Harry gave one look around , sank on the sofa , and covered his face with his hands , completely overcome . 
said Harry , starting up . 
`` Harry ! '' 
cried his mother , at length , parting the locks from his forehead -LRB- as she used to do poor Frank 's -RRB- , `` before you say another word , have you remembered your parting promise ? 
Harry ! 
demanded Harry , in a low voice . 
`` Good , my boy , '' replied his father . 
`` Mrs. Elton , '' exclaimed Simon , throwing open the door , and Mrs. Elton flew into Harry 's arms and kissed his forehead with the tenderest affection , her eyes full of tears , and talking all the while exactly as if she had n't left off since he went away -LRB- and probably she had n't ! -RRB- 
The pang which this sight gave Harry taught him what a tender and profound love he had continued to cherish for her , and the hopes , false as air , which , despite all he had heard and seen , had still kept possession of his bosom . 
For a moment anguish and indignation contended within him , for he was suffering one of the keenest pangs he had ever experienced . 
He recovered himself , however , immediately , and advanced to meet her with very much the same manner as that in which he had bade her farewell . 
`` I am happy to see you , '' said he , scarcely touching the hand tremblingly extended to him . 
He was interrupted by the sudden awakening of the baby , who began to cry -- of course ! 
But , what by no means appeared so natural a consequence , he perceived , with new astonishment , that tears had suddenly gushed into the eyes of its mother , which , after vainly endeavouring to repress , she was striving to hide with her hands , and by turning away her face , upon which , to say the truth , he had scarcely dared to look . 
In the midst of this little mystery a new comer presented himself -- a tall , very handsome , very well-dressed , very graceful young man , with a pair of whiskers , becomingly trimmed within the modesty of nature -- and , stretching forth his hand , he grasped Harry 's with a warmth which astonished the latter , although it did not appear to have that effect upon anybody else . 
`` Frankly , '' replied Harry , in a respectful manner ; `` but for these witnesses , I should say I had never -- stop ! '' 
he added , as if seized with a faint recollection , `` but no -- and yet -- it is not possible ! 
`` The same , '' cried Seth ; `` and , what is more , this saucy one has dared , without your leave or knowledge , to -- '' Harry 's surprise was not diminished by what followed , for Seth , seizing the hand of Mary , raised it passionately to his lips , and implanted upon the same a first-rate , full-sized , unequivocal kiss . 
exclaimed Harry , starting up . 
A sudden peal of laughter announced their discovery of his mistake , which was made more perceptible by the joyful enthusiasm with which he instantly hastened to the side of Miss Elton , and , extending his hand , said , `` Fanny , tell me the truth ! 
demanded Harry , in an agitation he did not even try to repress . 
cried Harry , bewildered . 
exclaimed Harry . 
`` Fanny , '' said Harry , with more calmness , `` in the presence of all these beloved ones , hear me declare that , from the first moment I knew you , I loved you . 
What error has been between us I can not say ; but I have been given to understand -- '' He stopped . 
inquired Harry . 
`` I will tell you , '' said his father . 
`` I can scarcely credit what I hear , '' exclaimed Harry . 
`` When I met with my losses , '' continued his father `` -LRB- for you must know , my dear boy , I am not by one half so rich as I was when you left -RRB- , this man , in proportion as I grew unfortunate , began to manifest his real character , but in a way so wily and cunning that no one would believe he was doing anything wrong . '' 
`` Perhaps you havesuspected him unjustly , '' said Harry . 
`` And I really can not believe -- '' said Harry . 
`` Stop , '' said his father , `` till you hear the end . 
To put yourdoubts to rest , my dear Harry , let me ask you whether he has never communicated to you anything respecting Fanny , which caused you to wish to separate yourself from her ? '' 
`` He has ; but I am not at liberty to say what . '' 
`` I , also , '' said Fanny , `` have been deceived by him in regard to you , though I , too , am bound not to say how . '' 
`` Leave him , then . 
Since you left we have , somehow or other , discovered -- '' Harry 's eyes here sought those of Fanny , who , with a deep blush and an expression of conscious guilt -LRB- although surely guilt never before looked so interesting -RRB- , rose , stole softly round to Mr. Lennox 's chair , and placed her hand over his mouth . 
`` Fanny , '' said Harry , in a low voice , `` ten years ago , in this room , on this spot , I told you I loved you . 
Fanny turned away her head , but gave him her hand . 
Unable longer to restrain her emotion , poor Fanny fairly burst into tears , upon which Harry , with gentle but deep tenderness , caught her to his bosom , and , for the first time , dared to print on her lips the kiss of faithful love , with not more resistance than the established etiquette on such occasions , and the presence of the three spectators , rendered absolutely necessary . 
`` That 's better , '' cried his father . 
`` My own Fanny , my sweet wife , '' cried Harry , taking the small liberty to repeat the operation . 
exclaimed Harry . 
said Fanny , looking at him reproachfully . 
cried Harry ; `` you didset the example . 
Harry took the loved hand which had so unexpectedly become his own , and led Fanny into the dining-room . 
Dark , sad changes had taken place since last he had seated himself at that table . 
Perhaps the supper was n't the most tempting that ever was seen , and perhaps the oldest and best wine was not produced , and perhaps there was no popping off of Champagne corks , and perhaps the inflowing upon Harry of this new happiness did n't throw around him a manly grace and dignity which had never been seen in him before , and perhaps Fanny 's eyes did not venture at last , unchecked by fear , to rest upon his face with pride and love , and perhaps he did not think , as he gazed on her countenance and perfect form , that , if it had not been the Christian 's duty to forgive , he could never pardon Emmerson for having cast one instant 's sorrow over that ingenuous and affectionate heart -- for having once brought tears into those eyes -- though he could n't but say the moisture occasionally visible there gave them a very curious , and , in fact , rather extraordinary power over his feelings . 
Holford , whom the reader may remember as the rival orator of Harry at a public meeting in the earlier part of the story , contrary to Mr. Lennox 's prediction , has `` turned out '' a great man , and been elected governor of one of the Western States . 
He was among the foremost to congratulate Harry on his safe return , and came very often to take tea with the family in the most friendly way possible . 
In fact -LRB- when certain it would not be required -RRB- , he earnestly requested that any assistance he could render might be asked for without hesitation , and expressed himself too grateful for past favours to permit of his neglecting any opportunity to repay them . 
He -LRB- almost -RRB- persuaded both Harry and his wife -LRB- the reader will not require to be more particularly informed , we hope , whoMrs . 
Harry Lennox had been before her marriage ! -RRB- 
that they must have been mistaken in him , and there are not wanting people a plenty to this day who believe him to be as honest , kind hearted , and amiable a man as he is a sharp and diligent lawyer . 
And Harry himself -- we scarcely dare begin to speak again of him -- of the changes around him and within him . 
He never had been gay . 
The high spirits of his father had in him always been tempered with reflection . 
Now , perhaps , although happy beyond his wildest expectation , he was still graver . 
Deep thoughts and high feelings possessed him . 
He never forgot the great lesson he had learned abroad , and they who knew him best , saw well that , if adversity would not have subdued , prosperity could not elate him . 
He applied himself to his profession with so much zeal that his friends speedily became aware of his splendid talents for the noble career he had chosen , and perhaps the world will hear more of him hereafter . 
We can answer for him , however , that , whatever befall him , he will be found an honest man , sincere and just in his dealings with all his fellow-creatures , far too wise and good to forget , in the temptations and struggles of his present position , that this world , with all its bliss and all its wo , is but the short path to another , to become worthy of which is his predominant thought . 
