He had embraced the catholic religion , and adopted a Spanish name instead of his own , which was Carwin , and devoted himself to the literature and religion of his new country . 
While Pleyel remained in Valencia , Carwin betrayed no aversion to intercourse , and the former found no small attractions in the society of this new acquaintance . 
My friend , after a month 's residence in this city , returned into France , and , since that period , had heard nothing concerning Carwin till his appearance at Mettingen . 
On this occasion Carwin had received Pleyel 's greeting with a certain distance and solemnity to which the latter had not been accustomed . 
Carwin was an adherent to the Romish faith , yet was an Englishman by birth , and , perhaps , a protestant by education . 
Carwin made one of the company , into which I was ushered . 
He expressed his astonishment at meeting our guest in this corner of the globe , especially as , when they parted in Spain , he was taught to believe that Carwin should never leave that country . 
Even in some of the facts which were related by Carwin , he maintained the probability of celestial interference , when the latter was disposed to deny it , and had found , as he imagined , footsteps of an human agent . 
It was soon observed that Carwin adopted , in some degree , a similar distinction . 
Such was Carwin 's mode of explaining these appearances . 
As to Carwin , our ignorance was in no degree enlightened respecting his genuine character and views . 
Carwin never parted with his gravity . 
It did not arise from the death of the Saxon lady : it was not a contagious emanation from the countenances of Wieland or Carwin . 
The language was familiar to all of us but Carwin , whose company , therefore , was tacitly dispensed with . 
He suspected that I looked with favorable eyes upon Carwin . 
I recalled the mysterious countenance and dubious character of Carwin . 
`` You knew that Carwin was there . 
Every accent that was uttered by Carwin was fresh in my remembrance . 
Carwin , unable to comprehend my folly , ascribed my behaviour to my knowledge . 
The voice that acknowledged an alliance in treachery with Carwin warned me to avoid the summer-house . 
I reviewed every conversation in which Carwin had borne a part . 
I began , likewise , to consider Carwin 's return to molest me as exceedingly improbable . 
`` Surely , '' said I , `` there is omnipotence in the cause that changed the views of a man like Carwin . 
Carwin , I thought , had repented his departure , and was hastily returning . 
Carwin 's frame might be said to be all muscle . 
Suddenly , it occurred to me that Carwin might conceive me to have fled . 
Was Carwin aware of his absence on this night ? 
Minute lingered after minute , but no token was given that Carwin had returned to the passage . 
Be that as it will , the figure of Carwin was clearly distinguishable . 
Carwin has softly opened the door , descended the stairs , and issued forth . 
Yet I opened my own door with the utmost caution , and descended as if I were affraid that Carwin had been still immured in Pleyel 's chamber . 
I was compelled to acquiesce in the first conjecture that Carwin had escaped through the entry . 
or had Carwin , by some inscrutable means , penetrated once more into this chamber ? 
After the unlooked-for interview with Carwin in my chamber , he retired . 
Was it not more rational to infer that Carwin 's designs had been illicit ; that my life had been endangered by the fury of one whom , by some means , he had discovered to be an assassin and robber ; that my honor had been assailed , not by blandishments , but by violence ? 
Previously assured of my affection for Carwin , distracted with grief and jealousy , and impelled hither at that late hour by some unknown instigation , his imagination transformed shadows into monsters , and plunged him into these deplorable errors . 
Gradually I proceeded to reflect upon the consequences of Pleyel 's mistake , and on the measures I should take to guard myself against future injury from Carwin . 
As to the violences meditated by Carwin , and the means of eluding them , the path to be taken by me was obvious . 
Perhaps his uneasiness might arise from some insight into the character of Carwin , and from apprehensions for my safety . 
The appearances by which Pleyel had been misled , might induce him likewise to believe that I entertained an indiscreet , though not dishonorable affection for Carwin . 
Having finished , `` This , '' continued I , `` is the truth ; you see in what circumstances an interview took place between Carwin and me . 
These persons , judging by their voices , were Carwin and you . 
The wickedness of Carwin must , in his opinion , have been adequate to such contrivances , and yet the supposition of my guilt was adopted in preference to that . 
I can not summon Carwin to my bar , and make him the attestor of my innocence , and the accuser of himself . 
You are apprized of the character of Carwin : Why then should I enumerate the discoveries which I have made respecting him ? 
`` The task was exuberant of pleasure , and I was deeply engaged in it , when an imp of mischief was let loose in the form of Carwin . 
Nay , I imagined that the last time that adventure was mentioned , which happened in the presence of Carwin , the countenance of the latter betrayed some emotion . 
`` Though it was mere conjecture that the interview spoken of had taken place with Carwin , yet two ideas occurred to involve me in the most painful doubts . 
Finally , I acquiesced in the least painful supposition , trammelled as it was with perplexities , that Carwin was upright , and that , if the reasons of your silence were known they would be found to be just . 
To bring myself to regard Carwin without terror , and to acquiesce in the belief of your safety , was impossible . 
`` It would be vain to call upon Carwin for an avowal of his deeds . 
One idea possessed me wholly ; the inexpressible importance of unveiling the designs and character of Carwin , and the utter improbability that this ever would be effected . 
how every fibre of my frame tingled when I proceeded to read that the name of the criminal was Francis Carwin ! 
Carwin was detected . 
He put in into my hands , and pointed out the passages which related to Carwin . 
Carwin was for a moment forgotten . 
These events were coeval with Carwin 's introduction . 
Carwin had constructed his plot in a manner suited to the characters of those whom he had selected for his victims . 
The request it contained might be called audacious or stupid , if it had been made by a different person ; but from Carwin , who could not be unaware of the effect which it must naturally produce , and of the manner in which it would unavoidably be treated , it was perfectly inexplicable . 
Carwin 's plot owed its success to a coincidence of events scarcely credible . 
Was not Carwin my soe ? 
Hence my impatience for the arrival of the hour which had been prescribed by Carwin . 
He was apprized of the offences of Carwin , and of the reward offered for his apprehension . 
Carwin was unapprized of his danger , and his intentions were possibly beneficent . 
Carwin was perhaps waiting my approach . 
Meanwhile the desireableness of an interview with Carwin again returned , and I finally resolved to seek it . 
A meeting was expected with Carwin , but that he pre-occupied my chamber , and had supplied himself with light , was not to be believed . 
Menaces of death ; the stunning exertions of a warning voice ; the known and unknown attributes of Carwin ; our recent interview in this chamber ; the pre-appointment of a meeting at this place and hour , all thronged into my memory . 
The image of Carwin was blended in a thousand ways with the stream of my thoughts . 
Carwin 's hand was instantly recognized , and snatching up the paper , I read as follows : -- `` There was folly in expecting your compliance with my invitation . 
The ink was yet moist , the hand was that of Carwin . 
Hence it was to be inferred that he had this moment left the apartment , or was still in it . 
I looked back , on the sudden expectation of seeing him behind me . 
What other did he mean ? 
This then was the sight which Carwin had predicted ! 
Carwin was the phantom that pursued my dreams , the giant oppressor under whose arm I was for ever on the point of being crushed . 
Perhaps you allude to one by the name of Carwin . 
`` You gather from this , '' said he , `` that Carwin is the author of all this misery . '' 
Carwin may have plotted , but the execution was another 's . 
Was not Carwin the assassin ? 
Carwin , perhaps , or heaven , or insanity , prompted the murderer ; but Carwin is unknown . 
I can not forget Carwin . 
These ideas connected themselves with the image of Carwin . 
These have no part in the scene over which the genius of Carwin presides . 
Here Carwin had actually appeared upon the stage ; but this was in a human character . 
A voice and a form were discovered ; but one was apparently exerted , and the other disclosed , not to befriend , but to counteract Carwin 's designs . 
Carwin was the miscreant whose projects were resisted by a minister of heaven . 
These images were unavoidably connected with that of Carwin . 
Mixed up with notions of supernatural agency , were the vehement suspicions which I entertained , that Carwin was the enemy whose machinations had destroyed us . 
Here it was that the incomprehensible behaviour of Carwin was witnessed : this the stage on which that enemy of man shewed himself for a moment unmasked . 
The name of Carwin was uttered , and eternal woes , woes like that which his malice had entailed upon us , were heaped upon him . 
It was Carwin ! 
I threw a languid glance round me ; once more my eyes lighted upon Carwin . 
Then I remembered that the voice exerted , was to save me from Carwin 's attempts . 
Carwin stood for a time musing and mournful . 
But if Carwin 's were the thrilling voice and the fiery visage which I had heard and seen , then was he the prompter of my brother , and the author of these dismal outrages . 
Carwin 's eyes glared , and his limbs were petrified at this intelligence . 
Carwin started and paused . 
My eyes and the eyes of Carwin were , at the same moment , darted upon him . 
Carwin did not fail to recognize the visitant . 
In a state thus verging upon madness , my eye glanced upon Carwin . 
I firmly believed that Carwin 's was the instigation . 
My brother turned slowly his eyes , and fixed them upon Carwin . 
Twice did Carwin attempt to speak , but his words died away upon his lips . 
Carwin may be innocent , but the impetuosity of his judge may misconstrue his answers into a consession of guilt . 
Carwin may be ignorant of those which misled my brother . 
he resumed , addressing himself to Carwin . 
Carwin seemed unable to say more . 
He addressed himself to Carwin . 
Perceiving that Carwin did not obey , he continued ; `` Dost thou wish me to complete the catalogue by thy death ? 
Carwin , irresolute , striving in vain for utterance , his complexion pallid as death , his knees beating one against another , slowly obeyed the mandate and withdrew . 
Carwin had acknowledged his offences , and yet had escaped . 
The words of Carwin had shaken his belief , and he was employed in summoning the messenger who had formerly communed with him , to attest the value of those new doubts . 
In visiting my house , I had made provision against the machinations of Carwin . 
Such was my weakness , that even in the midst of these thoughts , my mind glided into abhorrence of Carwin , and I uttered in a low voice , O ! 
Carwin ! 
Carwin ! 
I know not what brought about thy interview with the being whom thou callest Carwin . 
It was Carwin that again intruded , and who stood before me , erect in attitude , and stedfast in look ! 
The improbability that the influence which governed Wieland was external or human ; the tendency of this stratagem to sanction so fatal an error , or substitute a more destructive rage in place of this ; the sufficiency of Carwin 's mere muscular forces to counteract the efforts , and restrain the fury of Wieland , might , at a second glance , have been discovered ; but no second glance was allowed . 
My first thought hurried me to action , and , fixing my eyes upon Carwin I exclaimed -- `` O wretch ! 
Carwin listened to my intreaties unmoved , and turned from me . 
He seemed to notice not the entrance or exit of Carwin . 
Carwin 's agency was here easily recognized . 
In the career of my tempestuous thoughts , rent into pieces , as my mind was , by accumulating horrors , Carwin was unseen and unsuspected . 
Carwin , as I said , had left the room , but he still lingered in the house . 
of Carwin . 
My uncle , Wieland , Pleyel and Carwin were successively and momently discerned amidst the storm . 
Through my uncle 's exertions a meeting was brought about between Carwin and Pleyel , and explanations took place which restored me at once to the good opinion of the latter . 
Perhaps you are somewhat interested in the fate of Carwin . 
He found a more impartial and indulgent auditor in Mr. Cambridge , who imputed to maniacal illusion the conduct of Wieland , though he conceived the previous and unseen agency of Carwin , to have indirectly but powerfully predisposed to this deplorable perversion of mind . 
It was easy for Carwin to elude the persecutions of Ludloe . 
That virtue should become the victim of treachery is , no doubt , a mournful consideration ; but it will not escape your notice , that the evils of which Carwin and Maxwell were the authors , owed their existence to the errors of the sufferers . 
