`` Dummberg , I drink you this whole bocale , '' shouted Rabenmark . 
Wait till I drink to you , Rabenmark , and be wiser in future , '' concluded the veteran , with a pull at a very seedy pair of moustachios . 
`` I deny it , '' said Rabenmark , `` I deny it ; I assert my right , '' and he prepared to drink off the bocale . 
Rabenmark accordingly sat down abashed ; and before he gets up again , I may as well describe , in a word or two , the scene in which I found myself engaged . 
These were Otto Von Rabenmark , and Hermann Leopold Caspar Bernard Adolph Ulrich Count Trump Von Toggenburg-Hohenstaufer . 
Rabenmark was the `` fox '' -LRB- the slang term for a student in his first year -RRB- who had just been challenging the veteran student to drink . 
As he wrote Von before his name , and was descended of a Bohemian family , who had been baronized before Charlemagne 's time , he wore an enormous seal ring on his fore-finger , with his armorial bearing . 
Such was Otto Von Rabenmark , a youth , who , in a more fortunate sphere , would have won himself name and fame . 
He was gifted with talents and acquirements immeasurably beyond his years . 
He spoke half a dozen languages -- Heaven knows when he had picked them up -- was an excellent classical scholar , and well read in history ; played well on the violin and piano ; and if not a dexterous was at least a desperate and daring swordsman . 
These colours were the badge of his club -- the most aristocratic one , he assured me , in Gottingen , in which there was not a single member who had not a Von to his name . 
And so he sang , in a grumbling base , the first stave of the well known song -- `` Rabenmark ! 
Rabenmark had jumped upon the table , where he danced about among the bottles and glasses , mouthing and chattering like a monkey . 
yelled Rabenmark , springing to the floor again . 
`` I choose Toggenburg , '' said Rabenmark . 
Here the two combatants in this singular duel -LRB- in which the object of each party is to drain his goblet in a shorter time than his antagonist , without drawing breath , and without spilling a drop , -RRB- received each a tumbler of equal size , holding about a pint , and filled to the brim with Rhenish . 
Dummberg , an old stager , drank with slow , deep , and measured swallows ; while Rabenmark , -- his eyes rolling almost out of his head , -- clutched the goblet in both hands , swallowed spasmodically , sputtered in his glass , bit off the rim , and fell into a coughing fit that nearly choked him , at the same moment that Dummberg turned his glass quietly upon his nail . 
So Rabenmark ordered the half-dozen . 
`` No matter , little Rabenmark , '' said Toggenburg , `` you have done very well for a fox . 
`` Very well , '' said Rabenmark , and so each filled his glass , drained it at once , and hugging each other lovingly round the neck , kissed each other with such a hearty smack , that the cellar resounded . 
`` Be my brother , '' said Rabenmark ; and they were `` thou-brothers '' from that moment . 
`` Simply , '' said the party addressed , `` that the fox , Von Rabenmark , has drunk schmollis with the junior bursch , Count Trump Von Toggenburg , and has broken it within half-an-hour . '' 
`` Nothing at all , '' said Rabenmark , `` except that I am very drunk . '' 
he continued . 
Rabenmark jumped up with a yell , and rushed out of the cellar , followed by the whole pack , while Lackland and I accompanied them to see what they were about . 
Rabenmark rushed into the street , jumped upon the postillion , floored him , seized his bugle , and then scrambled , like a monkey , into the saddle . 
Away rumbled the diligence through the silent streets of Leipzig , Rabenmark playing on the postillion 's purloined bugle like mad , till the night-caps of the quiet burghers of Leipzig popped out of every window in the town . 
A straggling student that happened to be lounging about the hotel , informed us that Rabenmark and Co. , had passed through a few days before on their way to the university . 
It was Rabenmark , my Leipzig acquaintance . 
He invited me to accompany him to his rooms , and smoke a pipe . 
I complied , and turned about with him ; and we continued our walk down the street . 
I was not sufficiently intimate with him to expostulate with , or to interrogate him with regard to the peculiar costume in which he had thought proper to array himself , and I accordingly took his arm as gravely as if he had been the burgomaster of the town , in his holiday suit . 
I was curious to observe if he would treat their animadversions with the same indifference as he had done those of the town 's - men . 
Rabenmark hastened toward them . 
said Rabenmark , ferociously , with his arms a-kimbo ; `` I see nothing to laugh at ! '' 
said Rabenmark to the second , third , and fourth . 
continued Rabenmark . 
The addresses were given , and Rabenmark wrote them all carefully down in his note-book . 
`` Now , '' said he , `` allow me to observe , Messieurs Pott , Kopp , and Fizzleberg , that you are all three stupid boodies -LRB- dumme Jungen -RRB- ! '' 
`` Von Rabenmark , '' answered my companion . 
`` Very well , gentlemen , '' said Rabenmark : `` very well , indeed : all perfectly in order . 
`` As for you , sir , '' continued Rabenmark , turning to the first student ; `` our quarrel is not so easily settled . 
said Rabenmark . 
Choose either of your three friends for your second ; here is mine , '' said he , pointing to me ; `` and we will settle Fritz 's quarrel with these instruments , at three paces , and no barrier , '' he concluded , touching his pistols . 
`` What a devil of a renommist , '' said Pott , shaking his head . 
I am sorry , sir , but I shall be obliged to post you publicly : you will be expelled from your club ; '' and Rabenmark was moving away . 
cried he , calling to the terrier . 
The dog came to his whistle , and Rabenmark held his stick , a foot 's distance from the ground . 
said Rabenmark , and the dog jumped over the stick . 
`` Now sir , '' he continued , `` if you will have the kindness to place yourself on all fours , and jump over the stick in like manner , I pledge my honour to you that Fritz will be perfectly satisfied . '' 
said Rabenmark , -- over jumped the detected bully -- and , jumping up again , fled rapidly up a narrow lane . 
`` Good morning , Mr. Weissbier , '' said Rabenmark : -- `` good morning , Messieurs Kopp , Pott , and Fizzleberg . 
You shall hear from me this afternoon ; '' and so saying , he gravely continued his promenade . 
A fewminutes ' walk brought us to his lodgings . 
We ascended two flights of stairs , and entered his apartment . 
Rabenmark 's friends seemed to be numerous , for there were at least a hundred silhouettes , ranged in regular rows , gradually decreasing by one from the bottom , till the pyramid was terminated by a single one , which was the profile of the `` senior '' of the Pommeranian club . 
The hilts of Rabenmark 's were of blue , scarlet and gold . 
On the fourth side of the room were ranged a collection of pipes , which were the pride of his hearth . 
`` There , '' said Rabenmark , entering the room , unbuckling his belt , and throwing the pistols and schläger on the floor . 
`` No particular reason , '' he answered ; `` but it is about the most simple way of arranging matters on the whole . 
Look here , '' he continued , taking down one of the schlägers from the wall , and showing me the list of the duels he had already perpetrated , written , according to an universal custom , on the white leathern lining of the hilt . 
`` See , '' said he , `` these first half-dozen are the senior , con-senior , and some other members of the Pommerania ; they were my first six duels . '' 
that was a very simple matter , '' replied Rabenmark ; `` for in the first place , you are wrong in your flattering supposition . 
`` Oh , it is boy 's play , '' said he ; `` but then I am a boy , in years at least . 
Nothing could induce Rabenmark to admit the possibility of his death , till that age . 
It was a prediction in his family , by some gipsy , I suppose , for hewas , as I have said , a Bohemian . 
His age was , at the time of which I am writing , exactly eighteen and a half . 
`` Perhaps , '' said he , politely , `` you would like to see a duel or two . 
Here Rabenmark threw open the window , and called to a passing acquaintance . 
`` There , Mr. Morton , '' continued Rabenmark , `` you see in five minutes a student 's whole life . 
In the student 's republic , and there alone , the omnipotent ` Von ' sinks before the dexterous schläger , or the capacious ` beer bummel . ' 
Atdinner I met Lackland , of course , and told him of my visit in the morning , and my intentions in the evening . 
He agreed to accompany me in the evening to the Pommeranian Kneipe , and in the meantime we strolled to the library . 
`` But here we are at your rooms , and I see Rabenmark looking out of the window . '' 
`` By the way , Rabenmark , '' said my old acquaintance , Dummberg , whom I had just recognised and greeted , `` did you hear of the issue of Salzmaum 's Paukerei , yesterday ? '' 
`` Yes , at the first gang , he received a cut across the cheek , reaching from the end of the eyebrow to the chin . '' 
`` Nineteen , I believe , but besides that , the tip of his tongue , which happened unluckily to have been thrust into his cheek at the moment , was taken off also -- however , that goes for nothing , I believe . 
On ascending the steps , I perceived Rabenmark , who was slightly drunk . 
You shall see me catch him ; '' and so saying , Rabenmark waited till the stranger was nearly abreast of us , and then suddenly thrusting out his leg , tripped him over . 
replied Rabenmark . 
`` Good night , '' said Rabenmark , and then turning to me , he continued : `` This is what I call catching . 
As I approached the door of the saloon , I heard a soft and gentle voice utter the words , `` You will not forget , dearest Otto ? '' 
I turned to look at the lovers , and saw Bertha Wallenstein and Otto Von Rabenmark ! 
Here was Trump 's amour with the Jewess ; Rabenmark 's suddenly discovered and very singular connection with Bertha Wallenstein ; and this extraordinary passion which Miss Poodleberg secretly entertained for the unknown Pappenheim and myself . 
As for Trump , he had already made me his confidant , and I expected the same of Rabenmark , for he had taken occasion to request me to be at home the next day for an hour preceding the time appointed for the Paukerei . 
said I to Rabenmark , as he entered my room the next afternoon . 
`` There was nothing very surprising in it , '' he replied ; `` I tell you I am as well aware as any one of the absurdity of my usual dress , conduct , and habits , and I have told you my reasons for continuing them ; but there is something I have not told you , and which I hardly understand why I should tell you now , except that I feel we are more than common friends , although acquainted so short a time . 
`` The fact is , my dear Morton , '' he replied , `` I have given way to my natural impulses in these particulars , -- the more willingly , because we wish for the present to conceal our mutual engagements from Count Wallenstein . 
`` None in the world , '' he replied . 
`` Do you go los this afternoon , Rabenmark ? '' 
`` Yes ; at your service , '' said Rabenmark . 
repeated Rabenmark . 
In the midst of these encouraging pieces of information , Rabenmark , nodding to me to accompany him , marched into the chamber belonging to the club . 
One of them fussed up to Rabenmark with an important face , and held out to him a schläger . 
`` There , '' said he , `` I have just picked out the best blade in the whole box of new ones , which we have just received from Solingen . 
Rabenmark took the schläger , threw himself into a posture of defence , and cut a few slashes in the air . 
Rabenmark poked among them for a few minutes , feeling the edge of one , the weight of another , and at last selected one , which the fussy personage with the important face immediately screwed into the hilt . 
Rabenmark took off his coat and prepared to undress , and dress himself for the conflict . 
asked Rabenmark of one of them . 
`` Swine for you , '' said Rabenmark . 
Rabenmark had now divested himself of all clothing but his shirt and trowsers . 
The defensive armour , used in these student 's duels was now brought him . 
He first put around his neck a stock of silk , wadded very tightly , and nearly an inch in thickness . 
Next he assumed the duelling-breeches . 
His right arm , from the shoulder to the wrist , was then swathed with a kind of rope of old black cravats ; and upon his head was placed a large and wadded club cap , with a large leather front-piece . 
Affenstein , with his sinister and noseless visage , and Schnappsberger , who were to be Rabenmark 's two seconds , had already assumed a sort of costume , less defensive than the principal 's , which is always worn by the seconds . 
Rabenmark and his seconds marched stoutly into the centre of the hall , at the exact moment that Kopp and his friends appeared from the opposite door . 
Suddenly Rabenmark raised his weapon , and making a feint at the head of his antagonist , directed a violent blow at his breast . 
It was skilfully parried by the opposite party , who retorted with a savage `` quart , '' which , if successful , would have nearly severed him in two . 
Kopp 's second now advanced , opened the bosom of Rabenmark 's shirt , and searched carefully for any scratch or sign of the conflict . 
I trembled for Rabenmark , for I knew that he was bad at parrying , and that his only chance of success with his present adversary was in a desperate and furious attack . 
He was , however , now obliged to act on the defensive , and he stood his ground at first very well . 
At last , Kopp aimed a prodigious blow at Rabenmark 's head . 
It came within a quarter of an inch of the frontlet of the cap , before Rabenmark succeeded in beating it off with a desperate and successful back-handed stroke . 
As it is very seldom that the wounds received in these duels are so severe as to prevent the parties from walking home very soon after , it will be seen at once that this blow inflicted by Rabenmark was of more than usual magnitude . 
`` He has enough for the next six weeks , '' said Rabenmark , coolly turning towards the dressingroom . 
-LRB- cursed fox -RRB- murmured the wounded man , reviving at the sound of his adversary 's voice for an instant , and then relapsing into his swoon . 
inquired I. `` Not a bit , '' he replied . 
He sat down by an open window to cool himself , and in the meantime Trump Von Toggenburg and others discussed the `` paukerei '' which had just taken place . 
That deep tierce of Rabenmark 's is dexterous , but my ` quart ' is irresistible . 
When my grandfather was a student at -- '' `` Rabenmark ! 
It was a great exaggeration of Trump 's to say that Rabenmark 's present adversary was the second best schläger in Göttingen . 
Rabenmark had , on first commencing the conflict , conducted himself rather warily . 
He had heard falsely , as we know , of the high reputation of his new antagonist , and determined that his previous triumph over Kopp should not be thrown into the shade by a present overthrow . 
He , however , soon perceived how much he had been mistaken in the character of Fizzelberg , and felt himself secure of an easy victory . 
He accordingly contented himself for the present with parrying his adversary 's blows , till he was roused to exertion by being nearly cut across the face by a successful quart from his opponent . 
he cried , as he barely contrived to parry it . 
His adversary , however , held his own pretty well , and parried the strokes with tolerable success , till a back-handed tierce , something similar in its character to the tierce which had settled Kopp 's business , although far less violent , took him inside his guard , and hit him just above the leather breeches . 
Rabenmark was examined by his adversary 's second , and found unscathed ; while , at the same time , Affenstein clawed up the shirt of Fizzelberg . 
said he , `` what a trifle -- but sufficient to decide the duel . 
It is a -- , at least , '' said he , using the usual student 's expression for a wound of the requisite size and depth , but which is too coarse to be mentioned either in German or English . 
It is only , however , simple duels -- that is to say , duels to revenge a simple insult , such as that which passed between Rabenmark and his two antagonists -- which are settled in so simple and trivial a manner . 
It was my lot to see , and it is my intention to describe , a very desperate encounter which took place some time subsequent to these proceedings , between Rabenmark and another , which was more serious in its nature and its effects ; but at present it is necessary for me to return to the thread of my story . 
said Rabenmark . 
`` Swine for you , my dear fellow , '' said his second , `` that you got off so well from that ferocious fox . 
I bade adieu to Rabenmark and the others , who intended making a night of it at the inn , and returned by myself to the town . 
If you write , for example , to a shoe-maker or a tailor , you address the `` well-born '' tailor Schneiderff , or his `` well-born-ship '' the shoe-maker Braun ; but if to a gentleman , whose name has the magical prefix , Von , you style him the `` highly-well-born , '' Mr. Von Katzenjammer . 
`` You keep the Baron pretty safe , Master Diedrich , '' said I , taking up the ponderous house-key . 
`` Well , '' thought I , `` here I am , a confidant , for the third time ; and it is a little odd that I should be the chosen depositary of the secrets of three such different persons as Rabenmark , Trump , and Pappenheim . '' 
said Trump , reddening at this exposition of his economy ; `` take the petit kanaster I received yesterday from my cousin , Prince Von Toggenburg-Hohenstaufer . '' 
I inquired of an old woman at the door , if Baron Pappenheim lodged there , and was told to ascend two flights . 
TheCommandant Von Wallenstein gave his periodical ball . 
`` Otto will be here soon , '' I whispered ; `` I left him an hour ago . '' 
Alas , poor Otto ! 
And as Otto Von Rabenmark made his bow , I made my exit into the dancing-room . 
Let me see -- there were Count and Countess Toggenburg-Hopsburg ; Baron , Baroness , and the seven little Barons ToggenburgPuffendorf ; the Prince Toggenburg-Hohenstaufer , with his Princess , and various others . 
Baron Poodleberg says it is a fact ; and if Baron Poodle -- '' `` Yes , yes -- all true -- all true ; but we have not time for that just now . 
There is a young friend of mine , Baron Wildheim , who is proceeding to Brunswick , on a matter of -- '' `` To Brunswick ! 
The great Baron Poo -- '' `` D -- n the great Baron Poodleberg ! 
The Baron is a particular friend of mine , and I am happy that I shall soon have an opportunity of expressing to him my obligations . 
I asked , of Rabenmark , with whom I was associated in the procession , and next whom I was of course seated at supper . 
cried Rabenmark to Pappenheim , draining off a large goblet . 
Name one , '' said Rabenmark . 
said Klingspohr unhesitatingly , for he knew nothing of Rabenmark 's interest in that family . 
Now , make the best you can of it , Mr. Fox Rabenmark . '' 
Rabenmark was furious . 
Although he knew full well that the Commandant was no friend of his , yet an aspersion of the fame of his beloved 's father was more than he could bear . 
An occasional blow like that given by Rabenmark sometimes happens on great provocation ; but an interchange of fisticuffs is unheard of . 
`` This is no common insult , Rabenmark , '' he said in a tone of forced calmness , `` and I swear to you that it shall be avenged in no common manner . 
`` And I swear to you , on my word of honour , '' said Rabenmark , `` that when we do meet one of us at least shall be carried from the place . '' 
I felt certain that before to-morrow night either Klingsphr or Rabenmark would be a corpse . 
-- Well , if Rabenmark 's business comes off the same day , we shall have a gay party . '' 
We cast lots for priority , and it was decided that Lackland and Mr. Fischer should open the proceedings , and Klingspohr and Rabenmark finish the game . 
Klingspohr and Rabenmark now prepared for action . 
Each stripped off all clothing but his shirt and trowsers ; each threw his cap upon the ground , and seized his sabre . 
Rabenmark struck a succession of furious blows , right and left -- tierce and quart -- which Klingspohr found impossible to parry . 
He sunk under their violence , wounded , and bleeding desperately . 
He recovered himself however , in a few moments , and fastened upon his enemy for the third and last time . 
Klingspohr now struck a blow at Rabenmark . 
It was partially parried , but glanced along his shoulder . 
Before he could recover his guard , Rabenmark , who was always quick as a ripost , retorted with his furious `` deep tierce . '' 
He struck him in the side -- buried his sword 's point in the wound , and then , with a tremendous exertion of strength , forced the weapon through his body , till the hilt struck against his side . 
Klingspohr glared wildly at him for an instant , and then fell stone dead . 
`` Is there any thing I can not do when Otto is in danger ? '' 
`` -- Is severe ; but his daughter is also a Wallenstein . '' 
Rabenmark would soon then be exposed to the most active persecution which grief and revenge could dictate . 
The jackalls of the police were already on the track , but he was at present under the protection of one who was most crafty in evading and opposing the laws . 
Presently Rabenmark desired to speak to me . 
Rabenmark was in want of friends . 
His connections were powerful at his home , but in the mean time he might be cast into prison . 
He must flee -- they must separate ; but before separation they were determined that they would be united ; so that it should no longer be in the power of man to hold them asunder after his immediate danger was averted . 
I went in search of Pappenheim , whom Rabenmark wished as a witness , in company with myself . 
In that house , at an hour and a half past midnight , in the presence of Pappenheim , myself , and the coffin-maker , was the high-born Bertha Wallenstein united to Otto Von Rabenmark . 
Rabenmark , Pappenheim , Trump Von Toggenburg , Lackland , and myself , with a score or two of others , whom we had persuaded to be our companions , had made our escape from Göttingen . 
Rabenmark had remained a day or two concealed in the town , at the imminent risk of his life . 
Although he had on one or two occasions miraculously escaped discovery , yet it was impossible for him to hope for such success any longer . 
Rabenmark hovered for a few days in the suburbs of the town . 
He heard nothing from her . 
At last he reluctantly submitted to the solicitations of Pappenheim and myself , and together we all retired to the Hartz mountains . 
On one occasion , Rabenmark and I had advanced far beyond the usual limit of such masquerading excursions . 
He hoped to have an interview with Bertha , and thus to relieve the anguish of his mind . 
After a little dissuasion , I found that his purpose was not to be shaken . 
I agreed to accompany him . 
It was a proclamation describing the person of the Baron Otto Von Rabenmark , and offering a thousand rix dollars for his apprehension . 
The fox turned pale for a moment , but recovering himself suddenly , he began a colloquy with his next neighbour . 
Little by little , Rabenmark led him on to a description of the Robbery on Baron Poodleberg 's carriage . 
asked Rabenmark . 
He walked into the room with the utmost coolness . 
He had a pack on his back , and a staff in his hand . 
He saluted the company , with most of whom he seemed familiarly acquainted ; nodded carelessly to us , and then very quietly opened his pack , and exposed his wares to the company . 
`` Here , Schnobb , '' said he , `` here is a silver mouthpiece for your bugle . 
`` Here , Gottlob , '' he continued , to the red-headed son of the executioner ; `` here is a pair of braces to tie up your breeches , when you get a pair ; and here is a silver buckle which I bought as a present for your father . 
With these last words , he tossed a package to Rabenmark , which his quick eye instantly told him was a letter . 
`` The price is six groschen , '' said he . 
He at last paid him five groschen . 
Soon afterwards he slipped out of the room , whispering to us that he would soon return . 
We took care , however , to keep in the neighbourhood of the tavern , that we might meet Rabenmark . 
`` On arriving here , I was happy enough , by the merest accident , to convey a letter from the Baron Rabenmark to the Countess Bertha . 
He entrusted me with it some days ago , and I promised to use all exertions to get it to her as soon as possible . 
It was not a very sentimental method ; but it proved a very efficient one , as I gave Baron Rabenmark an answer just now . 
Rabenmark had not yet returned . 
He represented to us that we could do nothing for Rabenmark ; that our waiting only endangered ourselves , without assisting him , and that the best thing we had to do , was to beat a retreat as soon as possible . 
He promised for his own part , to wait for Rabenmark , and to meet us all at the cavern in three days . 
We were convinced by his reasoning , shook hands with him , and departed . 
`` Where is Rabenmark ? '' 
that poor Rabenmark is not with us to enjoy the frolic ! '' 
`` You must know then -- '' began Rabenmark . 
When we have served the Jew , -LRB- and if we are not expeditious , it will be too late , -RRB- we shall have plenty of time to hear the Baron 's story . 
`` When I returned from my interview with Bertha , '' began Rabenmark , without any further preface , `` I found that I had , naturally enough , much overstayed the appointed time . 
said Rabenmark . 
It seems he was a Pommeranian gentleman , of great wealth , as reported , and a stranger in these parts . 
His name was Count Bernard Von Rothenberg . '' 
To my horror and dismay , I was informed that Rabenmark had returned , had met his brother-in-law , Count Leopold Wallenstein , the son of the commandant , and had slain him in the streets . 
I eagerly demanded news of Rabenmark . 
Together we went to visit Rabenmark . 
We found him chained in a dungeon . 
He was grown haggard . 
His features were sunken , and his eye like a maniac 's . 
He informed me , in a few words , of his whole horrible history . 
Immediately after his last interview with Bertha , the commandant discovered their intercourse . 
`` I understand , '' said Rabenmark , looking towards the jailor , `` that there is little doubt of my condemnation and immediate execution . '' 
As I took leave of him , Rabenmark threw his arms about my neck , and kissed me . 
`` We shall never meet again , except for a moment in the judgment-hall to-morrow , '' said he . 
He concluded by passing sentence of death on the Baron Otto Von Rabenmark . 
Rabenmark arose . 
`` My Lord Judge , '' he began , `` you have asked me what I had to urge in extenuation of my offence . 
Even the gloomy Wallenstein , who was next him , and within arm 's length of Rabenmark , became attentive , and a little agitated . 
Rabenmark resumed . 
But ye have yet to learn that a Rabenmark will at least be no common felon . 
My bride -- my true and lawful bride , the daughter of this proud man -- is dead ; and Leopold Wallenstein is dead ; and Otto Von Rabenmark , as ye think , is in two days to lay down his head on the executioner 's block ; -- but there is yet another victim whom you dream not of . '' 
shouted Rabenmark , and as he spoke he suddenly drew a dagger , strode forward to the commandant , and struck him to the heart . 
He fell without a groan . 
During the instant 's delay , Rabenmark slipped his signet from his finger , plucked out the stone , and applied the large hollow ring to his mouth . 
`` You are too late , my lord , '' said Rabenmark . 
As the last words passed his lips , he fell a corpse . 
This comes pretty near my idea of a perfect woman , and this is a `` picture in little '' of Ottila Von Walldorff . 
Immediately on my arrival I called on the Baron . 
chuckled the Baron , `` very excellent ! 
Owing , however , to the interest which had spread from one to another as the animated description of the Baron became more eloquent , the conversation of the others had ceased , and all were listening to the scientific lecture . 
A general burst of supplication followed the request of the Baron . 
`` What the Baron too ! '' 
I saw the young , gallant , martyred Deane ; the benevolent features of my venerable uncle ; the pale face of Mayflower ; the bloody corpse of Wallenstein ; the distorted frame of Rabenmark ; the scornful glance of Lackland . 
Why had the highborn Rabenmark become a robber and a felon ? 
