We know you have no great turn for the classics ; we do not expect you to take high honours like young Mr. Hardie ; besides , that might make your head ache : he has sad headaches his sister told Julia . 
Moreover , the college was a large one , and some of `` the sets '' very exclusive : young Hardie was Doge of a studious clique ; and careful to make it understood that he was a reading man who boated and cricketed , to avoid the fatigue of lounging ; not a boatman or cricketer who strayed into Aristotle ïn the intervals of Perspiration . 
The excitement of nearly being bumped by Brasenose in the first hundred yards was an excuse ; however , Hardie apologized as they were dressing in the barge after the race : but the apology was so stiff , it did not pave the way to an acquaintance . 
Young Hardie , rising twenty-one , thought nothing human worthy of reverence , but Intellect . 
and what has young Mr. Hardie done , that you should bestow so violent a sentiment on him ? '' 
To be sure , she owned she had never seen this Mr. Hardie , but after all it was only Jane Hardie 's brother , as Edward was hers ; `` and would I sit down and let Jane beat me at Things ? 
``` -- Dear mamma , sometimes I can not help being down in the mouth ' -LRB- why , it is a string of pearls -RRB- ` to think you have not got a son like Hardie . 
`` Now , have not I cause to hate , and scorn , and despise , le petit Hardie ? '' 
`` I mean to dislike with propriety , and gently to -- abominate -- Mr. Hardie junior . 
`` Now is your time , Hardie ; pick her up ! '' 
`` Well , I believe it , '' said one of Hardie 's own set . 
`` Well , then , since you can feel for a fellow , Hardie was a good deal cut up . 
You know the university was in a manner beaten , and he took the blame . 
He never cried ; that was a cracker of those fellows . 
But he did give one great sob , that was all , and hung his head on one side a moment . 
But then he fought out of it directly , like a man , and there was an end of it , or ought to have been . 
`` And what did you say to console him , Edward ? '' 
The three heats furnished but one good race , a sharp contest between a Cambridge man and Hardie , ending in favour of the latter ; the Londoner walked away from his opponent . 
`` Yours truly , `` Alfred Hardie . '' 
The skiffs started down at the island , and , as they were longer coming up than the eight-oars , she was in a fever for nearly ten minutes ; at last , near the opposite bank , up came the two leading skiffs struggling , both men visibly exhausted ; Silcock ahead , but his rudder overlapped by Hardie 's bow ; each in his own water . 
He passed Hardie , who upon that relaxed his speed . 
Hardie wants you directly . '' 
`` Do n't you go , Edward , '' whispered Julia : `` why should you be at Mr. Hardie 's beck and call ? 
That youth will make me hate him . '' 
`` Mr. Hardie , I have not the honour to be acquainted with you , and I am not here to annoy you , nor to be affronted by you . 
`` Who have I the honour , '' inquired Hardie , assuming politeness sudden and vast . 
Hardie of Exeter is a good man in a boat when he has not got a headache . 
`` When he has got a headache , Hardie of Exeter is not worth a straw in a boat . 
`` Hardie of Exeter has a headache now . 
`` Ergo , the university would put the said Hardie into a race , headache and all , and reduce defeat to a certainty . 
`` And , ergo , on the same premises , I , not being an egotist , nor an ass , have taken Hardie of Exeter and his headache out of the boat , as I should have done any other cripple . 
As for Hardie , he held his aching head over his knees , absorbed in pain , and quite unconscious that sacred pity was poisoning the air beside him , and two pair of dovelike eyes resting on him with womanly concern . 
observed Hardie 's adherent . 
murmured Hardie , in a faint voice . 
Presently the Cambridge four-oar passed : it was speedily followed by the Oxford ; the last came down in mid-stream , and Hardie eyed it keenly as it passed . 
`` There , '' he cried , `` was I wrong ? 
Hardie rose and turned round , and sure enough there were two ladies seated in their carriage at some distance ; one of whom was holding him out three pretty little things enough , a little smile , a little blush , and a little cut-glass bottle with a gold cork . 
Hardie went slowly up to the side of the carriage , and took off his hat to them with a half-bewildered air . 
Now that he was so near , his face showed very pale ; the more so that his neck was a good deal tanned ; his eyelids were rather swollen , and his young eyes troubled and almost filmy with the pain . 
The ladies saw , and their gentle bosoms were touched ; they had heard of him as a victorious young Apollo trampling on all difficulties of mind and body ; and they saw him wan , and worn , with feminine suffering : the contrast made him doubly interesting . 
Arrived at the side of the carriage , he almost started at Julia 's beauty . 
It was sun-like , and so were her two lovely earnest eyes , beaming soft pity on him with an eloquence he had never seen in human eyes before ; for Julia 's were mirrors of herself : they did nothing by halves . 
He looked at her and her mother , and blushed , and stood irresolute , awaiting their commands . 
This sudden contrast to his petulance with his own sex paved the way . 
He thanked her in a low voice . 
said Hardie , eagerly , `` I do not dispute her authority ; nor yours . 
He glanced now and then at the island , and now and then peered up at the radiant young mute beside him . 
An under-graduate in spectacles came mooning along , all out of his element . 
It was Mr. Kennet , who used to rise at four every morning to his Plato , and walk up Shotover-hill every afternoon , wet or dry , to cool his eyes for his evening work . 
With what view he deviated to Henley has not yet been ascertained ; he was blind as a bat , and did not care a button about any earthly boat-race , except the one in the Æneid , even if he could have seen one . 
However , nearly all the men of his college went to Henley , and perhaps some branch , hitherto unexplored , of animal magnetism , drew him after . 
At any rate , there was his body ; and his mind at Oxford and Athens , and other venerable but irrelevant cities . 
He brightened at sight of his doge , and asked him warmly if he had heard the news . 
`` Why , two of our men are ploughed ; that is all , '' said Kennet , affecting with withering irony to undervalue his intelligence . 
At this very instant , the smoke of the pistol was seen to puff out from the island , and Hardie rose to his feet . 
cried he to the ladies , and , after first putting his palms together with a hypocritical look of apology , he laid one hand on an old barge that was drawn up ashore , and sprang like a mountain goat on to the bow , lighting on the very gunwale . 
The position was not tenable an instant , but he extended one foot very nimbly and boldly , and planted it on the other gunwale ; and there he was in a moment , headache and all , in an attitude as large and inspired as the boldest gesture antiquity has committed to marble ; he had even the advantage in stature over most of the sculptured forms of Greece . 
But a double opera-glass at his eye `` spoiled the lot , '' as Mr. Punch says . 
Hardie raised his opera-glass , and his first impulse was to brain the judicious Kennet , gazing up to him for an answer , with spectacles goggling like supernatural eyes of dead sophists in the sun . 
Young Hardie writhed on his perch . 
He screeched at them across the Thames `` Well pulled Stroke ! 
Hardie turned round , grateful to beauty for siding with his university . 
Hardie said he was very sorry for it . 
And with this he started on his congenial errand . 
Hardie took two or three of his long strides , and fairly collared him . 
To his surprise , Kennet 's face expressed no sympathy , nor even bare assent . 
At this Hardie lost patience , and burst out impetuously , `` Take care how you refuse me ; take care how you thwart me in this . 
Hardie replied gaily , `` Any way you like , now you are a good fellow again . '' 
And he went hastily to meet Edward Dodd : and by that means intercepted him on his way to the carriage . 
`` Give me your hand , Dodd , '' he cried ; `` you have saved the university . 
`` With all my heart , '' replied Edward , calmly , but taking the offered hand cordially ; though he rather wanted to get away to his mother and sister . 
`` We will pull together , and read together into the bargain , '' continued Hardie . 
`` It is too good an offer to refuse , Hardie ; but now I look at you , you are excited : wonderfully excited with the race , eh ? 
And he shook Edward 's hand again with glistening eyes and an emotion that was quite unintelligible to Edward ; but not to the quick , sensitive spirits , who sat but fifteen yards off . 
Young Hardie stood petrified . 
Good Heavens , all his talk in their hearing had been of Dodd ; and Kennet and he between them had let out the very thing he wanted to conceal , especially from Dodd 's relations . 
But young Mr. Hardie had said it would be unkind to poison Edward 's day , and it is sweet woman 's nature to follow suit ; so she and Julia put bright faces on , and Edward passed a right jocund afternoon with them ; he was not allowed to surprise one of the looks they interchanged to relieve their secret mortification . 
She looked up surprised ; and it was young Mr. Hardie . 
His tall figure was bending towards her submissively , and his face , as well as his utterance , betrayed considerable agitation . 
Naturally proud and sensitive , and inflated by success and flattery , Alfred Hardie had been torturing himself ever since he fled Edward 's female relations . 
He was mortified to the core . 
He confounded `` the fools '' -LRB- his favourite synonym for his acquaintance -RRB- for going and calling Dodd 's mother an elder sister , and so not giving him a chance to divine her . 
Hardie learned where Dodd 's party lodged , and waited about the door to catch him alone ; Dodd must be in college by twelve , and would leave Henley before ten . 
muttered Hardie , and drew back . 
However , he stood and admired her graceful figure and action , her ladylike speed without bustling . 
Had she come back at the same pace , he would never have ventured to stop her : on such a thread do things hang : but she returned very slowly , hanging her head ; her look at him and his headache recurred to him , a look brimful of goodness . 
`` Certainly , Mr. Hardie , '' said she , with a modest composure a young coquette might have envied under the circumstances . 
Hardie had now only to explain himself : but instead of that , he stood looking at her with silent concern ; the fair face she raised to him was wet with tears ; so were her eyes , and even the glorious eyelashes were fringed with that tender spray ; and it glistened in the moonlight . 
This sad and pretty sight drove the vain but generous youth 's calamity clean out of his head . 
But soon her natural candour and simplicity prevailed ; a simplicity not without dignity ; she turned round to him and looked him in the face . 
`` Oh , pray do n't cry , '' said young Hardie , tenderly ; `` do n't take such a trifle to heart so ; you crying makes me feel guilty for letting it happen . 
And indeed this improvement in the music did not escape Hardie ; he felt he was on the right tack : he enumerated fluently , and by name , many good men , besides Dean Swift , who had been ploughed , yet had cultivated the field of letters in their turn ; and , in short , he was so earnest and plausible , that something like a smile hovered about his hearer 's lips , and she glanced askant at him with furtive gratitude from under her silky lashes . 
But it soon recurred to her that this was rather a long interview to accord to `` a stranger , '' and under the moon ; so she said a little stiffly , `` And was this what you were good enough to wish to say to me , Mr. Hardie ? '' 
`` Oh , Mr. Hardie , '' said the young lady , smiling , `` how foolish : why , of course we knew you had no idea . '' 
said Hardie , imploringly . 
`` Me , Mr. Hardie ? 
Hardie hung his head ; there was a touch of satire in the lady 's voice , he thought . 
Her soft eyes rested demurely on him a moment ; she saw he was a little abashed . 
He stammered a lowly apology ; in the very middle of it she said quietly , `` Good-bye , Mr. Hardie , '' and swept , with a gracious little curtsey through the doorway , leaving him spell-bound . 
She felt young Hardie 's lips upon the palm of her hand plainly ; they seemed to linger there still ; it was like light but live velvet . 
This , and the ardent look he had poured into her eyes , set the young creature quivering . 
She retired to her own room , and went the whole day over again ; and was happy and sorry , exalted and uneasy , by turns ; and ended by excusing Mr. Hardie 's escapade , and throwing the blame on herself . 
The moon shone from her side of the street full on him , and in that instant her quick eye recognized Mr. Hardie . 
Yes , there he was , motionless . 
`` I 'll tell mamma , '' said she to him , malignantly , as if the sound could reach him . 
Unconscious of the direful threat , he did not budge . 
She was unaffectedly puzzled at this phenomenon ; and , not being the least vain , fell to wondering whether he played the nightly sentinel opposite every lady 's window , who exchanged civilities with him . 
But on reflection , she felt sure he did nothing of the kind habitually , for he had too high an opinion of himself ; she had noted that trait in him at a very early stage . 
She satisfied herself , by cautious examination , that he did not know her room . 
He was making a temple of the whole lodging . 
Yet he appeared to be happy over it ; there was an exalted look in his moonlit face ; she seemed now first to see his soul there . 
She studied his countenance like an inscription , and deciphered each rapt expression that crossed it ; and stored them in her memory . 
`` Good night , Mr. Policeman , '' said she , pretending to bawl to him . 
She lay and wondered whether he was still there , and what it all meant , and what ever mamma would say ; and which of the two , she or he , was the head culprit in this strange performance , to which Earth , she conceived , had seen no parallel ; and , above all , what he would do next . 
The long vacation commenced about a month afterwards , and Hardie came to his father 's house , to read for honours , unimpeded by university races and college lectures ; and the ploughed and penitent one packed up his Aldrich and his Whateley , the then authorities in Logic , and brought them home , together with a firm resolution to master that joyous science before the next examination for Smalls in October . 
Tea was ordered , with two or three kinds of bread , thinnest slices of meat , and a little blanc mange , & c. , their favourite repast after a journey ; and whilst the tea was drawing , Mrs. Dodd looked over the card-tray and enumerated the visitors that had called during their absence : `` Dr. Short -- Mr. Osmond -- Mrs. Hetherington -- Mr. Alfred Hardie -- Lady Dewry -- Mrs. and Miss Bosanquet . 
What a pity Edward was not at home , dear ; Mr. Alfred Hardie 's visit must have been to him . '' 
Julia looked down smiling ; but presently seemed to be seized with a spirit of contradiction ; she began to pick poor Alfred to pieces ; he was this , that , and the other ; and then so bold , she might say impudent . 
Mrs. Dodd replied calmly that he was very kind to her boy . 
Why it was he sent me here : told me where you lived , and I was to make haste , for Miss Dodd was very ill : it is young Hardie , the banker 's son , ye know . '' 
Mrs. Dodd said , good humouredly , but with a very slight touch of irony , that really they were very much flattered by the interest Mr. Alfred Hardie had shown ; especially as her daughter had never exchanged ten words with him . 
And then , for the first time in her life , she thought her mother hardly gracious ; and she wanted to say she was obliged to Mr. Alfred Hardie , but dared not , and despised herself for not daring . 
`` Mr. Alfred Hardie interests me ; he was good to Edward . 
I am curious to know why you call him a puppy ? '' 
`` Only because he is one , ma'am . 
He is a juveneel pidant , and a puppy , and contradicts ivery new truth , bekase it is n't in Aristotle and th ' Eton Grammar ; and he 's such a chatterbox , ye ca n't get in a word idgeways ; and he and his sister -- that 's my virgin martyr -- are a farce . 
He keeps sneerin ' at he relijjin , and that puts her in such a rage , she threatens ` t ' intercede for him at the throne . 
She went to Mrs. Dodd , kissed her , and whispered in her ear , `` I hate him ! '' 
thought she , `` if he has gone and told him about Henley . '' 
My reader has seen Julia Dodd play both parts ; but it is her child 's face she has now been turning for several pages ; so it may be prudent to remind him she has shone on Alfred Hardie in but one light ; a young , but Juno-like , woman . 
Had she shown `` my puppy '' her childish qualities , he would have despised her ; he had left that department himself so recently . 
We left Alfred Hardie standing in the moonlight gazing at her lodging . 
Not that Alfred 's was `` Love at first sight , '' for he had seen her beauty in the full blaze of day with no deeper feeling than admiration ; but in the moonlight he came under more sovereign spells than a fair face : amongst these were her virtues and her voice . 
All unconsciously she cast this crowing spell on Alfred , and he adored her . 
In a word , he caught a child-woman away from its mother ; his fluttering captive turned , put on composure , and bewitched him . 
She left him , and the moonlight night seemed to blacken . 
But within his young breast all was light , new light . 
He leaned opposite her window in an Elysian reverie , and let the hours go by . 
He seemed to have vegetated till then , and lo ! 
He thought he should love to die for her ; and , when he was calmer , he felt he was to live for her , and welcomed his destiny with rapture . 
He passed the rest of the Oxford term in a soft ecstasy ; called often on Edward , and took a sudden and prodigious interest in him ; and counted the days glide by and the happy time draw near , when he should be four months in the same town with his enchantress . 
`` Perhaps , '' stammered Alfred , `` the ladies -- Mrs. Dodd -- might be able to tell me . '' 
Alfred 's eyes flashed . 
He started . 
Alfred was anything but consoled by this off-hand account ; he became alarmed , and looked wretched . 
Seeing him so perturbed , Sarah , who was blunt but goodnatured , added , `` But cook she says hard work would cure our Miss of all she ails . '' 
`` Cook is an unfeeling wretch , '' replied Alfred . 
Alfred took the hint reluctantly , and drew out his card-case , saying , `` For Mr. Edward Dodd . '' 
She gave her clean but wettish hand a hasty wipe with her apron , and took the card ; he retired , she stood on the step and watched him out of sight , said `` Oho ! '' 
and took his card to the kitchen for preliminary inspection and discussion . 
Alfred Hardie was resolute , but sensitive . 
He had come on the wings of Love and Hope ; he went away heavily : a housemaid 's tongue had shod his elastic feet with lead in a moment ; of all misfortunes sickness was what he had not anticipated , for she looked immortal . 
Well , if it was , he would love her all the more , would wed her as soon as he was of age , and carry her to some soft Southern clime , and keep each noxious air at bay , and prolong her life , perhaps save it . 
And now he began to chafe at the social cobwebs that kept him from her . 
But , just as his impatience was about to launch him into imprudence , he was saved by a genuine descendant of Adam . 
James Maxley kept Mr. Hardie 's little pleasaunce trim as trim could be , by yearly contract . 
This entailed short but frequent visits ; and Alfred often talked with him ; for the man was really a bit of a character ; had a shrewd rustic wit , and a ready tongue , was rather too fond of law , and much too fond of money ; but scrupulously honest : head as long as Cudworth 's , but broader ; and could not read a line . 
One day he told Alfred that he must knock off now , and take a look in at Albion Villee ; the captain was due ; and on no account would he , Maxley , allow that there ragged box round the captain 's quarter-deck : `` that is how he do name their little mossel of a lawn : and there he walks for a wager , athirt and across , across and athírt , five steps and then about ; and I 'd a ` most bet ye a halfpenny he thinks hisself on the salt sea ocean , bless his silly old heart . '' 
All this time Alfred , after the first start of joyful surprise , was secretly thanking his stars for sending him an instrument . 
To learn whether she had returned , he asked Maxley whether the ladies had sent for him . 
Ye see , Master Alfred , '' explained Maxley , wagging his head wisely , `` nobody 's pride can be everywhere ; now theirs is in-a-doors ; their withdrawing-room it 's like the Queen 's palace , my missus tells me ; she is wrapped up in 'em , ye know . 
The sage shouldered his tools and departed . 
But he left a good hint behind him . 
Alfred hovered about the back door next day till he caught Mrs. Maxley ; she supplied the house with eggs and vegetables . 
She thought not ; he was gone away to study . 
Acting on this intelligence , Alfred went early the next Sunday to St. Anne 's church , and sat down in the side gallery at its east end . 
Alfred gazed at her face ; devoured it . 
Indeed , he wished she was not quite so heavenly discreet ; her lashes were delicious , but he longed to see her eyes once more ; to catch a glance from them , and , by it , decipher his fate . 
In the last hymn before the sermon , a well-meaning worshipper in the gallery delivered a leading note , a high one , with great zeal , but small precision , béing about a semitone flat ; at this outrage on her too sensitive ear Julia Dodd turned her head swiftly to discover the offender ; and failed ; but her two sapphire eyes met Alfred 's point-blank . 
The lovely blush deepened and spread before it melted away , and Alfred 's late cooling heart warmed itself at that sweet glowing cheek . 
She never looked his way again , not once : which was a sad disappointment ; but she blushed again and again before the service ended , only not so deeply : now , there was nothing in the sermon to make her blush . 
So Alfred took all the credit of causing those sweet irrelevant blushes ; and gloated ; the young wretch could not help glorying in his power to tint that fair statue of devotion with earthly thoughts . 
What if the sight of him was intolerable ? 
He would know how he stood with her , and on the spot . 
He was one of the first to leave the church ; he made for the churchyard gate , and walked slowly backwards and forwards by it , with throbbing heart till she came out . 
She was prepared for him now , and bowed slightly to him with the most perfect composure , and no legible sentiment , except a certain marked politeness many of our young ladies think wasted upon young gentlemen ; and are mistaken . 
Alfred took off his hat in a tremor , and his eyes implored and inquired , but met with no further response ; and she walked swiftly home , though without apparent effort . 
He looked longingly after her ; but discretion forbade . 
He now crawled by Albion Villa twice every day , wet or dry , and had the good fortune to see her twice at the drawing-room window . 
He was constant at St. Anne 's church , and one Thursday crept into the aisle to be nearer to her , and he saw her steal one swift look at the gallery , and look grave ; but soon she detected him , and though she looked no more towards him , she seemed demurely complacent . 
Alfred had learned to note these subtleties now , for Love is a microscope . 
What he did not know was , that his timid ardour was pursuing a masterly course ; that to find herself furtively followed everywhere , and hovered about for a look , is apt to soothe womanly pride , and stir womanly pity , and to keep the female heart in a flutter of curiosity and emotion , two porters that open the heart 's great gate to love . 
Now the evening before his visit to the Dodds , Dr. Sampson dined with the Hardies , and happened to mention the `` Dodds '' among his old patients : `` The Dodds of Albion Villa ? '' 
Alfred stared at his sister . 
`` Then she is ill now , doctor , '' said Alfred , hastily . 
He then told him how to find Albion Villa . 
`` Jenny , dear , '' said he , when Sampson was gone , `` you never told me you knew her . '' 
said Alfred with a slight sneer . 
Alfred shook his head good humouredly . 
`` Then it does you infinite credit , Jane , '' said Alfred , warmly . 
Alfred pulled a face , as of one that drinketh verjuice unawares : but let it pass : hypercriticism was not his cue just then . 
`` Well , Jenny , '' said he , `` I have a favour to ask you . 
`` I would rather not , dear Alfred : the introduction could not be for her eternal good . 
inquired Alfred , angrily . 
`` Oh no , Alfred ; but you are a worldling . '' 
Alfred , smothering a strong sense of irritation , besought her to hear reason ; these big words were out of place here . 
`` It is Dodd 's sister ; and he will introduce me at a word , worldling as I am . '' 
Alfred did not reply to this unlucky thrust , but made a last effort to soften her . 
And , with these bitter words , Alfred snatched a candle and bounced to bed in a fury . 
Jane Hardie let fall a gentle tear : but consoled herself with the conviction that she had done her duty , and that Alfred 's anger was quite unreasonable , and so he would see as soon as he should cool . 
That worthy was just going to dine at Albion Villa , so Alfred postponed pumping him till next day . 
Well , he called at the inn next day , and if the doctor was not just gone back to London ! 
`` I have no luck , '' thought Alfred ; and wandered disconsolate homewards . 
There is a tie between cricketers far too strong for social distinctions to divide , and though Alfred muttered peevishly `` Whose cat is dead now ? '' 
he obeyed the strange summons . 
said Alfred , `` cricket is a recreation , not a business . 
`` Dick , '' said Alfred , `` if you blubber , I 'll give you a hiding . 
This polite ejaculation was drawn out by the speaker 's sudden recognition of Alfred , who had raised his head at her remonstrance , and now started in his turn : for it was the black-eyed servant of Albion Villa . 
Alfred silenced him , and told Sarah he thought Miss Dodd ought to know the nature of this prescription before it went round the chemists . 
He borrowed paper of Dick , and wrote : `` Mr. Alfred Hardie presents his compliments to Miss Dodd , and begs leave to inform her that he has , by the merest accident , intercepted the enclosed prescription . 
As it seems rather a sorry jest , and tends to attract attention to Miss Dodd and her movements , he has ventured , with some misgivings , to send it back with a literal translation , on reading which it will be for Miss Dodd to decide whether it is to circulate : ``` On Wednesday , at ten P.M. let her go in a fly to the Town-hall , and dance with thirteen little dogs , puppies whelps , especially with mine : return home at six A.M.s , and sleep till dinner , and repeat the folly as occasion serves . 
Alfred enclosed the prescription and his note in one cover , handed them to her , and slipped a sovereign into her hand . 
He whispered , `` Be prudent . '' 
`` I 'm dark , sir , '' said she : and went off briskly homewards , and Alfred stood rapt in dreamy joy , and so self-elated that , had he been furnished like a peacock , he would have instantly become `` a thing all eyes , '' and choked up Jenner 's shop , and swept his counter . 
Sarah met her at the gate , but did not announce her return : she lurked in ambush till Julia happened to go to her own room , then followed her , and handed Alfred 's missive , and watched her slily , and , being herself expeditious as the wind in matters of the heart , took it for granted the enclosure was something very warm indeed ; so she said with feigned simplicity , `` I suppose it is all right now , miss ? '' 
She divined rightly ; on Wednesday , at ten , Alfred Hardie was in the ball-room . 
The figure Alfred sought was not there : and he wondered he had been so childish as to hope she would come to a city ball . 
He played the fine gentleman ; would not dance . 
He got near the door with another Oxonian , and tried to avenge himself for her absence on the townspeople who were there , by quizzing them . 
But in the middle of this amiable occupation , and , indeed , in the middle of a sentence , he stopped short , and his heart throbbed , and he thrilled from head to foot ; for two ladies glided in at the door , and passed up the room with the unpretending composure of well-bred people . 
They were equally remarkable ; but Alfred saw only the radiant young creature in flowing muslin , with the narrowest sash in the room , and no ornament but a necklace of large pearls , and her own vivid beauty . 
She had altered her mind about coming , with apologies for her vacillating disposition so penitent and disproportionate , that her indulgent and unsuspecting mother was really quite amused . 
Alfred was not so happy as to know that she had changed her mind with his note . 
Perhaps even this knowledge could have added little to that exquisite moment , when , unhoped for , she passed close to him , and the fragrant air from her brushed his cheek ; and seemed to whisper , `` follow me and be my slave ! '' 
He did follow her , and , convinced that she would be engaged ten deep in five minutes , hustled up to the master of the ceremonies and begged an introduction . 
Her eyes were on fire , and a delicious blush on her cheeks , when the M.C. introduced Mr. Alfred Hardie with due pomp . 
He asked her to dance . 
said Hardie , timidly . 
But when they had got so far they were both seized with bashful silence ; and , just as Alfred was going to try and break it , Cornet Bosanquet , aged 18 , height 5 feet 4 inches , strutted up with clanking heel , and , glancing haughtily up at him , carried Julia off , like a steam-tug towing away some fair schooner . 
To these little thorns society treats all anxious lovers , but the incident was new to Alfred , and discomposed him ; and , besides , he had nosed a rival in Sampson 's prescription . 
So now he thought to himself , `` that little ensign is ` his puppy . 
I do not see any beauty in white , '' replied his daughter . 
muttered Alfred , and quivered all over : and he felt to Mrs. Dodd so like a savage going to spring , that she laid her hand upon his wrist , and said gently , but with authority , `` Be calm , sir ! 
`` Do let us move , '' whispered Alfred . 
The other Oxonian squeezed up to Hardie . 
said Hardie , deliberately , `` you mean that young lady with the court pearls , in that exquisite Indian muslin , which floats so gracefully , while the other muslin girls are all crimp and stiff , like little pigs clad in crackling . '' 
As for the hostile party , staggered at first by the masculine insolence of young Hardie , it soon recovered , and , true to its sex , attacked him obliquely , through his white ladye . 
asked the Oxonian coolly of Alfred . 
`` Oh , that alters the case entirely , '' said Julia , whose spirits were mounting with the lights and music , and Alfred 's company , `` so now come and be reconciled to the best and wisest of her sex ; ay , and the beautifullest , if you but knew her sweet , dear , darling face as I do ; there she is ; let us fly . 
`` Real , Mrs. Dodd , '' said Alfred . 
Julia looked at Alfred despondently ; he took his cue and said with a smile , `` Well , perhaps it is a little rompy ; a donkey 's gallop and then twirl her like a mop . '' 
Alfred said he ought ; he had given his whole soul to it in Germany last Long . 
Alfred took his partner delicately ; they made just two catlike steps forward , and melted into the old-fashioned waltz . 
To them therefore everything was an event , everything was a thrill -- the first meeting and timid pressure of their hands , the first delicate enfolding of her supple waist by his strong arm but trembling hand , the delightful unison of their unerring feet , the movement , the music , the soft delicious whirl , her cool breath saluting his neck , his ardent but now liquid eyes seeking hers tenderly , and drinking them deep , hers that now and then sipped his so sweetly -- all these were new and separate joys , that linked themselves in one soft delirium of bliss . 
The sudden facility offered set Alfred stammering a little . 
said Julia , looking him full in the face , like an offended lion , while , with true feminine and Julian inconsistency her bosom fluttered like a dove . 
Alfred stood stupified , and looked at her in piteous amazement . 
`` I value your acquaintance highly , Mr. Hardie , now I have made it , as acquaintances are made ; but please to observe , I never saw you before scarcely ; not even in church . '' 
`` As you please , '' said he , recovering his wits in part . 
Alfred ran , before they could stop him , and caught a fly . 
He was dripping . 
Mrs. Dodd expressed her regrets ; he told her it did not matter ; for him the ball was now over , the flowers faded , and the lights darkness visible . 
said Mrs. Dodd to Julia , with a smile , as soon as he was out of hearing . 
The first glance revealed Alfred Hardie standing in the very next pew . 
He wore a calm front of conscious rectitude ; under which peeped sheep-faced misgivings as to the result of this advance ; for , like all true lovers , he was half impudence , half timidity ; and both on the grand scale . 
After the first surprise , which sent the blood for a moment to her cheek , she found he had come without a prayer-book . 
She looked sadly and half reproachfully at him ; then put her white hand calmly over the wooden partition , and made him read with her out of her book . 
She shared her hymn-book with him , too , and sang her Maker 's praise modestly and soberly , but earnestly , and quite undisturbed by her lover 's presence . 
But now for a time it advanced on beaten tracks ; Alfred had the right to call at Albion Villa , and he came twice ; once when Mrs. Dodd was out . 
This was the time he stayed the two hours . 
A Mrs. James invited Jane and him to tea and exposition . 
There he met Julia and Edward , who had just returned . 
Her mother , finding this strange remedial virtue in youthful society , gave young parties , inviting Jane and Alfred in their turn . 
She saw plainly now that Mrs. Dodd only accepted Alfred as a pleasant acquaintance : as a son-in-law he was out of the question . 
She rose hurriedly , said as carelessly as she could , `` I am going to the school , '' and , tying her bonnet on all in a flurry , whipped out at the back door with her shawl in her hand just as Sarah opened the front door to Alfred . 
Alfred entered the drawing-room gaily , with a good-sized card and a prepared speech . 
Alfred told her `` the round O , '' which had yielded to `` the duck 's - egg , '' and was becoming obsolete , meant the cypher set by the scorer against a player 's name , who is out without making a run . 
In short , poor Alfred , though not an M. P. , was talking to put off time , till Julia should come in : so he now favoured Mrs. Dodd , of all people , with a flowery description of her husband 's play , which I , who have not his motive for volubility , suppress . 
Then , to get rid of Alfred before Julia 's return , the amiable worldling turned to Edward . 
Perhaps Mr. Hardie will join us . '' 
Alfred declined , and took his leave with far less alacrity than he had entered ; Edward went down stairs with him . 
asked Alfred , affecting carelessness . 
Where Alfred went the reader can perhaps guess ; Edward to luncheon . 
`` Mamma , '' said he , with that tranquillity which sat so well on him , `` do n't you think Alfred Hardie is spoony upon our Julia ? '' 
He must be over head and ears to think that . '' 
However , he was not the man to be cast down at a word : he lighted a cigar , and strolled towards Hardie 's house . 
Mr. Hardie , senior , had left three days ago on a visit to London ; Miss Hardie received him ; he passed the afternoon in calm complacency , listening reverently to her admonitions , and looking her softly out of countenance , and into earthly affections , with his lion eyes . 
Meantime his remark , so far from really seeming foolish to Mrs. Dodd , was the true reason for her leaving him so abruptly . 
Alfred had seized the fatal opportunity foliage offers , even when thinnish : he held Julia 's hand , and was pleading eagerly for something she seemed not disposed to grant ; for she turned away and made an effort to leave him . 
She ceased even to doubt , when she saw that her daughter 's opposition ended in his getting hold of two hands instead of one , and devouring them with kisses , while Julia still drew her head and neck quite away , but the rest of her supple frame seemed to yield and incline , and draw softly towards her besieger , by some irresistible spell . 
It was Alfred . '' 
`` Alfred ! 
She told the story of her heart better than I have ; and , woman-like , dwelt on the depths of loyalty and delicate love she had read in Alfred 's moonlit face that night at Henley . 
Next day , Alfred came to know his fate . 
He was received with ceremonious courtesy . 
At first he was a good deal embarrassed , but this was no sooner seen than it was relieved by Mrs. Dodd with tact and gentleness . 
Alfred looked a little confused , and said , `` No : he left for London two days ago , as it happens . '' 
Alfred replied that he was well aware of that , and that he knew his father , and could answer for him . 
Alfred would write by this post . 
`` It is a mere form , '' said he , `` for my father has but one answer to his children , ` Please yourselves . ' 
He then delivered a glowing eulogy on his father ; and Mrs. Dodd , to whom the boy 's character was now a grave and anxious study , saw with no common satisfaction his cheek flush , and his eyes moisten , as he dwelt on the calm , sober , unvarying affection , and reasonable indulgence , he and his sister had met with all their lives from the best of parents . 
`` Dear Mrs. Dodd , '' said Alfred , `` of course you may . 
added he , naïvely . 
Mrs. Dodd smiled , furnished him with writing materials , and left him , with a polite excuse . 
`` Write to me by return , dear father , and believe me `` Ever your dutiful and grateful Son , `` Alfred Hardie . '' 
As he concluded , Julia came in , and he insisted on her reading this masterpiece . 
Then he told her with juvenile severity that a good husband always shares his letters with his wife . 
`` His wife ? 
Alfred ! '' 
`` This will never do , sweet one , '' said Alfred , gravely . 
When he came to read it , he appreciated the delicacy that had tempered her curiosity . 
He did not read it all to her , but nearly . 
But all that becomes you ; you are a scholar : and , dear Alfred , if I should separate you from your papa , I will never estrange you from him ; oh , never , never . 
The gay creature dropt him a curtsey , and fled to tell Mrs. Dodd the substance of `` the sweet letter the dear high-flown Thing had written . '' 
By then he had folded and addressed it , she returned and brought her work ; charity children 's grey cloaks : her mother had cut them , and in the height of the fashion , to Jane Hardie 's dismay ; and Julia was binding , hooding , etcetering them . 
How demurely she bent her lovely head over her charitable work , while Alfred poured his tale into her ears ! 
How careful she was not to speak , when there was chance of his speaking ! 
How she and Alfred compared heart-notes , and their feelings at each stage of their passion . 
The next day Mrs. Dodd took Julia apart and asked her whether there was an answer from Mr. Hardie . 
Julia replied , from Alfred , that Jane had received a letter last night , and , to judge by the contents , Mr. Hardie must have left London before Alfred 's letter got there . 
''' `` Oh , he is not very clever ; has not much mind , Alfred says , indeed , hardly any . '' 
A serious doubt passed through her , whether , if Mr. Hardie did not write soon , she ought not to limit his son 's attendance on her daughter . 
`` He follows her about like a little dog , '' said she , half fretfully . 
Darting in from London he found Alfred sitting very close to Julia over a book . 
cried he , `` here 's ` my puppy , ' and ` m ' enthusiast , ' cheek by chowl . '' 
Julia turned scarlet , and Alfred ejaculated so loudly , that Sampson inquired what on airth was the matter now ? 
`` Oh , Alfred , no ; I only said no vainer , '' cried Julia in dismay . 
`` All vain people are that , '' suggested Alfred , dryly . 
And she murmured to Alfred , `` I wish I could steal your poor dear headaches : you might give me half of them at least ; you would , too , if you really loved me . '' 
The general amity was diversified , and the mirth nowise lessened by constant passages of arms between Messrs. Sampson and Alfred Hardie . 
As for Alfred , his face betrayed a degree of youthful mortification little short of agony . 
Mrs. Dodd was profoundly disgusted , but fortunately for the Hardies , caught sight of his burning cheeks and compressed lips . 
Alfred whispered , `` No , no , dearest , sing something suitable to you and me . '' 
He obeyed , and she turned over two or three music-books ; and finally sang from memory . 
The song Julia Dodd sang on this happy occasion , to meet the humble but heterogeneous views of Messrs. Sampson and Hardie , was a simple eloquent Irish song , called Aileen aroon . 
Judge , then , what it was to Alfred , to whom , with these great words and thrilling tones of her rich , swelling , ringing voice , the darling of his own heart vowed constancy , while her inspired face beamed on him like an angel 's . 
And she offered Mr. Hardie 's letter with averted head . 
Julia took Mr. Hardie 's note and read it : `` Madam , -- `` I have received a very juvenile letter from my son , by which I learn he has formed a sudden attachment to your daughter . 
`` What we ought to do is , never to let the name of Hardie be mentioned again in this house . '' 
`` Shall I write to him , or do you feel strong enough ? '' 
`` I feel that , if I do , I may affront him . 
He had no right to pretend that his father would consent . 
`` I could have loved him well . 
And now show me how to tear him out of my heart ; or what will become of me ? '' 
While Mrs. Dodd wrote to Alfred Hardie , Julia sank down and laid her head on her mother 's knees . 
Next morning early , Alfred Hardie started gaily to spend the day at Albion Villa . 
Not a hundred yards from the gate he met Sarah , with Mrs. Dodd 's letter , enclosing a copy of his father 's to her . 
Mrs. Dodd here reminded him that his visits had been encouraged only upon a misapprehension of his father 's sentiments ; for which misapprehension he was in some degree to blame : not that she meant to reproach him on that score , especially at this unhappy moment : no , she rather blamed herself for listening to the sanguine voice of youth ; but the error must now be repaired . 
She and Julia would always wish him well , and esteem him , provided he made no further attempt to compromise a young lady who could not be his wife . 
`` I am , `` Dear Mr. Alfred Hardie , `` With many regrets at the pain I fear `` I am giving you , `` Your sincere friend and well-wisher , `` Lucy Dodd . '' 
Alfred on reading this letter literally staggered : but proud and sensitive , as well as loving , he manned himself to hide his wound from Sarah , whose black eyes were bent on him in merciless scrutiny . 
He said doggedly , though tremulously , `` Very well ! '' 
then turned quickly on his heel , and went slowly home . 
Mrs. Dodd , with well-feigned indifference , questioned Sarah privately : the girl 's account of the abrupt way in which he had received the missive , added to her anxiety . 
She warned the servants that no one was at home to Mr. Alfred Hardie . 
Two days elapsed , and then she received a letter from him . 
`` I am , `` Dear Mrs. Dodd , `` Yours sorrowfully , `` but not despairing , `` Alfred Hardie . '' 
Alfred had now a soft but dangerous antagonist in Mrs. Dodd . 
and the surest course seemed to be to detach her affections from Alfred . 
But , too wise and calm to interfere blindly , she watched her daughter day and night , to find whether Love or Pride was the stronger : and this is what she observed : Julia never mentioned Alfred . 
Meantime it cost Alfred Hardie a severe struggle to keep altogether aloof from Julia . 
In fact , it was a state of daily self-denial , to which he would never have committed himself , but that he was quite sure he could gradually win his father over . 
At his age we are apt to count without our antagonist . 
He had taken care not to give any to Mrs. Dodd , and he was as guarded and reserved with Alfred . 
The young man begged to know the why and the wherefore , and , being repulsed , employed all his art to elicit them by surprise , or get at them by inference : but all in vain ; Hardie senior was impenetrable ; and inquiry , petulance , tenderness , logic , were all shattered on him as the waves break on Ailsa Craig . 
Add to these a colder nature and a far colder affection ; for Alfred loved his father dearly . 
At last , one day , the impetuous one lost his self-command , and said he was a son , not a slave , and had little respect for Authority when afraid or ashamed to appeal to Reason . 
Hardie senior turned on him with a gravity and dignity no man could wear more naturally . 
`` Alfred , have I been an unkind father to you all these years ? '' 
Alfred was overpowered by the weight and solemnity of this . 
Sorrow , vexation , and despondency all rushed into his heart together , and unmanned him for a moment ; he buried his face in his hands , and something very like a sob burst from his young heart . 
At this Hardie senior took up the newspaper with imperturbable coldness , and wore a slight curl of the lip . 
All this was hardly genuine , for he was not altogether unmoved ; but he was a man of rare self-command , and chose to impress on Alfred that he was no more to be broken or melted than a mere rock . 
It is always precarious to act a part ; and this cynicism was rather able than wise : Alfred looked up and watched him keenly as he read the monetary article with tranquil interest ; and then , for the first time in his life , it flashed into the young man 's mind that his father was not a father . 
Alfred , unlike Julia , had no panacea . 
Had any lips , except perhaps hers , told him that `` to be good is to be happy here below , '' he would have replied , `` Negatur ; contradicted by daily experience . '' 
It never occurred to him therefore to go out of himself , and sympathise with the sordid sorrows of the poor , and their bottomless egotism in contact with the well to do . 
He brooded on his own love , and his own unhappiness , and his own father 's cruelty . 
His nights were sleepless , and his days leaden . 
He tried hard to read for his first class , but for once even ambition failed : it ended in flinging books away in despair . 
He wandered about dreaming and hoping for some change , and bitterly regretting his excessive delicacy , which had tied his own hands and brought him to a stand-still . 
He lost his colour and what little flesh he had to lose : for such young spirits as this are never plump . 
In a word , being now strait-jacketed into feminine inactivity , while void of feminine patience , his ardent heart was pining and fretting itself out . 
He was in this condition , when one day Peterson , his Oxonian friend , burst in on him open-mouthed with delight , and , as usual with bright spirits of this calibre , did not even notice his friend 's sadness . 
''' `` You mean such an ` abandon , ''' groaned Alfred , turning sick at heart . 
This news put Alfred in a phrensy of indignation and fear . 
He called to mind all he had read in the classics , and elsewhere , about the fickleness of woman . 
But this impression did not last long ; he recalled Julia 's character , and all the signs of a love tender and true she had given him ; he read her by himself , and , lover-like , laid all the blame on another . 
I have no friend but Alfred Hardie : and my bitterest enemies are my cold-blooded father , and her cold-blooded mother . '' 
But they represent his thoughts accurately , though in a condensed form , and are , as it were , a miniature of this young heart boiling over . 
From that moment he lay in wait for her , and hovered about the house day and night , determined to appeal to her personally , and undeceive her , and baffle her mother 's treachery . 
But at this game he was soon detected : Mrs. Dodd lived on the watch now . 
Poor , poor Alfred ! '' 
She went to her own room and prayed for him . 
She informed the Omniscient that , though much greater and better in other respects than she was , he had not Patience . 
She prayed , with tears , that he might have Christian patience granted him from on high . 
she shuns me , '' said Alfred , outside . 
He had seen her in her bonnet . 
Finding he was not to be tired out , she sent Sarah out to him with a note carefully sealed . 
`` Mr. Alfred Hardie , is it generous to confine my daughter to the house ? 
`` Yours in despair , `` Alfred Hardie . '' 
The latter was playing a part in a charade to the admiration of all present , when in came Mr. Peterson , introducing his friend , Alfred Hardie . 
Presently she caught sight of him at some distance . 
He looked very pale , and his glittering eye was fixed on her with a sort of stern wonder . 
cried Alfred . 
He is reckless . '' 
She rose and glided up to Alfred Hardie , looked coldly in his face ; then said with external politeness and veiled contempt , `` I will attempt the song , sir , since you desire it . '' 
She waved her hand , and he followed her sulkily to the piano . 
As spirits are said to overcome the man at whose behest they rise , so this sweet air , and the gush of reminiscence it awakened , overpowered him who had evoked them ; Alfred put his hand unconsciously to his swelling heart , cast one look of anguish at Julia , and hurried away half choked . 
She looked and recognised Alfred in that disguise ; the penitent fit had succeeded to the angry one . 
To ascertain this without speaking of him , Mrs. Dodd waited till they had got some little distance , then quietly put out her hand and rested it for a moment on her daughter 's ; the girl was trembling violently . 
They were near home before she spoke at all , and then she only said very kindly , `` My love , you will not be subjected again to these trials : '' a remark intended quietly to cover the last occurrence as well as Alfred 's open persecution . 
I am on your Alfred 's side from this hour . '' 
His father refuses . 
Well , in the year 1825 , it was not one bubble but a thousand ; mines by the score , and in distant lands ; companies by the hundred ; loans to every nation or tribe down to Guatemala , Patagonia and Greece : two hundred new ships were laid on the stocks in one year , for your dear papa told me ; in short , a fever of speculation , and the whole nation raging with it : my dear , Princes , Dukes , Duchesses , Bishops , Poets , Lawyers , Physicians , were seen struggling with their own footmen for a place in the Exchange : and , at last , good , steady , old Mr. Hardie , Alfred 's grandfather , was drawn into the vortex . 
Now , to excuse him and appreciate the precocious Richard , you must try and realise that these bubbles , when they rise , are as alluring and reasonable , as they are ridiculous and incredible when one looks back on them ; even soap bubbles , you know , have rainbow hues till they burst : and , indeed , the blind avarice of men does but resemble the blind vanity of women : look at our grandmothers ' hoops , and our mothers ' short waists and monstrous heads ! 
Now put all this together , and who more transparent than the profound Mr. Hardie ? 
He has declined our alliance because he takes for granted we are poor . 
When I undeceive him on that head he will reopen negotiations , in a letter No. 2 of the correspondence ; copied by one of his clerks : it will be calm , plausible , flattering : in short it will be done like a gentleman : though he is nothing of the kind . 
It is loose cash , to speak à la Hardie ; that means I can do what I choose with it ; and of course I choose -- to make you happy . 
I think of depositing three or four thousand pounds every month with Mr. Hardie ; he is our banker , you know . 
He will most likely open his eyes , and make some move before the whole sum is in his hands . 
If he does not , I shall perhaps call at his bank , and draw a cheque for fourteen thousand pounds . 
And , by-the-by , we are not going to marry Mr. Richard Hardie , but Mr. Alfred . 
Now Mr. Alfred , with all his faults and defects -- '' `` Mamma ! 
By this time Alfred Hardie was thoroughly miserable . 
Unable to move his father , shunned by Julia , sickened by what he had heard , and indeed seen , of her gaiety and indifference to their separation , stung by jealousy , and fretted by impatience , he was drinking nearly all the bitters of that sweet passion , Love . 
But as you are aware he ascribed Julia 's inconstancy , lightness , and cruelty , all to Mrs. Dodd . 
He hated her cordially , and dreaded her into the bargain ; he played the sentinel about her door all the more because she had asked him not to do it . 
`` Always do what your enemy particularly objects to , '' said he , applying to his own case the wisdom of a Greek philosopher , one of his teachers . 
So , when the gate suddenly opened , and instead of Julia , this very Mrs. Dodd walked towards him , his feelings were anything but enviable . 
He wished himself away , heartily , but was too proud to retreat . 
He stood his ground . 
She came up to him ; a charming smile broke out over her features , `` Ah , Mr. Hardie , '' said she , `` if you have nothing better to do , will you give me a minute ? '' 
He assented with an ill grace . 
He offered it with a worse . 
He felt like walking with a velvet tigress . 
By some instinct she divined his sentiments , and found her task more difficult than she had thought ; she took some steps in silence . 
At last , as he was no dissembler , he burst out passionately , `` Why are you my enemy ! '' 
He retorted bitterly . 
In the lane she told him quietly she knew the nature of his father 's objections to the alliance he had so much at heart , and they were objections , which her husband , on his return , would remove . 
Come , Alfred -- may I take that liberty with you ? 
The more credulous speculators held on in hopes of a revival ; but Hardie , who knew that the collapse had been merely hastened , saw the gravity of the situation , and sold largely at a heavy loss . 
But he could not sell all the bad paper he had accumulated for a temporary purpose : the panic came too swiftly , and too strong : soon there were no buyers at any price . 
said Hardie , quietly ; `` that must be regulated . '' 
So Hardie was safe for some months , unless there should be an extraordinary run on him , and that was not likely this year ; the panic had subsided , and , nota bene , his credit had never stood higher . 
The reason was , he had been doublefaced ; had always spoken against railways : and his wise words were public , whereas his fatal acts had been done in the dark . 
But now came a change , a bitter revulsion , over this tossed mind ; hope and patience failed at last , and his virtue , being a thing of habit and traditions , rather than of the soul , wore out ; nay more , this man , who had sacrificed so nobly to commercial integrity , filled with hate of his idol , and contempt of himself . 
Hardie at this period turned mole . 
He burrowed darkling into æs alienum . 
The marriage of Alfred or Jane would be sure to expose him ; settlements would be proposed ; lawyers engaged to peer into the trust , & c. No ; they must remain single for the present , or else marry wealth . 
So , when his son announced an attachment to a young lady living in a suburban villa , it was a terrible blow , though he took it with outward calm , as usual . 
But if , instead of prating about beauty , virtue , and breeding , Alfred had told him hard cash in five figures could be settled by the bride 's family on the young couple , he would have welcomed the wedding with great external indifference , but a secret gush of joy ; for then he could throw himself on Alfred 's generosity , and be released from that one corroding debt ; perhaps allowed to go on drawing the interest of the remainder . 
Alfred put in his oar . 
On this , Alfred hazarded a conjecture . 
Might it not have gone down his throat ? 
`` Ay , I hear ye , young man , a laughing at your own sport , '' said Maxley , winking his eye ; `` but ` tai n't the biggest mouth as catches the most : you sits yander fit to bust : but -LRB- with a roar like a lion -RRB- ye never offers me none o n't , neither sup nor bit . '' 
`` You 're a gentleman , you are , '' said Maxley , looking full at Sampson and Alfred to point the contradistinction . 
Having thus disposed of his satirists , he contemplated the sandwiches with an inquiring and philosophic eye . 
`` Well , '' said he , after long and thoughtful inspection , `` you gentlefolks wo n't die of hard work ; your sarvants must cut the very meat to fit your mouths . '' 
I 'm not a thousand pound man ; I 'm a nine hundred pound man : and it 's all safe at Hardie 's : '' here he went from his roar to his whisper , `` I do n't hold with Lunnon banks ; they be like my missus 's eggs : all one outside , and the rotten ones only known by breaking . 
I look twice at a penny ; but she looks twice at both sides of a halfpenny before she will let him go : and it 's her being so close have raised all this here bobbery ; and so I told her ; says I , ` Missus . 
`` Justum ac tenacem propositi virum , '' whispered Alfred to Edward . 
On the way , he passed Hardie 's Bank ; a firm synonymous in his mind with the Bank of England . 
He made for Hardie 's door with a joyful rush , waved his cap over his head in triumph , and entered the Bank with It . 
Alfred Hardie kept faith with Mrs. Dodd , and , by an effort she appreciated forbore to express his love for Julia except by the pen . 
He took in Lloyd 's shipping news , and got it down by rail in hopes there would be something about the Agra ; then he could call at Albion Villa ; Mrs. Dodd had given him that loophole : meantime he kept hoping for an invitation : which never came . 
Julia was now comparatively happy : and so indeed was Alfred : but then the male of our species likes to be superlatively happy , not comparatively ; and that Mrs. Dodd forgot , or perhaps had not observed . 
One day Sampson was at Albion Villa , and Alfred knew it . 
Now , though it was a point of honour with poor Alfred not to hang about after Julia until her father 's return , he had a perfect right to lay in wait for Sampson , and hear something about her ; and he was so deep in love that even a word at second hand from her lips was a drop of dew to his heart . 
Alfred 's curiosity was excited , and he ventured to put his head over the gate . 
Alfred had half a mind to go in and inquire if anything was the matter : it would be a good excuse . 
While he hesitated , the dining-room window was thrown violently up , and Sampson looked out : `` Hy ! 
Hardie ! 
It was plain something very serious had occurred : so Alfred flew towards the nearest fly-stand . 
On the way , he fell in with a chance fly drawn up at a public-house ; he jumped on the box and drove rapidly towards Albion Villa . 
Sampson was hobbling to meet him -- he had sprained his ankle or would not have asked for a conveyance -- to save time he got up beside Alfred , and told him to drive hard to Little Friar-street . 
On the way he explained hurriedly : Mrs. Maxley had burst in on him at Albion Villa to say her husband was dying in torment : and indeed the symptoms she gave were alarming , and , if correct , looked very like lock-jaw : but her description had been cut short by a severe attack , which choked her and turned her speechless and motionless , and white to the very lips : ``` Oho , ' sis I , ` brist-pang ! ' 
Alfred flung the reins to a cad , and followed him . 
He was on the look out for the robber , and , as Alfred came round the corner full pelt , darted at the reins with a husky remonstrance , and Alfred cut into him with the whip : an angry explanation -- a guinea -- and behold the driver sitting behind complacent , and nodding . 
Arrived at Albion Villa , Alfred asked Sampson submissively if he might come in and see the wife cured . 
`` Then ask me in before Mrs. Dodd , '' murmured Alfred , coaxingly . 
Alfred came in timidly , and was received with perfect benignity , and self-possession , by Mrs. Dodd ; but Julia 's face was dyed with blushes , and her eyes sparkled the eloquent praise she was ashamed to speak before them all . 
They sat down to luncheon : but neither Alfred nor Julia fed much , except upon sweet stolen looks ; and soon the active Sampson jumped up , and invited Alfred to go round his patients . 
Alfred could not decline , but made his adieux with regret so tender , and undisguised , that Julia 's sweet eyes filled , and her soft hand instinctively pressed his at parting to console him . 
She blushed at herself afterwards ; but at the time she was thinking only of him . 
Maxley and his wife came up in the evening with a fee . 
Next day he met Alfred , and thanked him with warmth , almost with emotion : `` There ai n't many in Barkington as ever done me a good turn , Master Alfred ; you be one on em : you comes after the captain in my book now . '' 
Alfred suggested that his claims were humble compared with Sampson 's . 
`` No , no , '' said Maxley , going down to his whisper , and looking monstrous wise : `` Doctor did n't go out of his -- business -- for me : you did . '' 
On the morning of that eventful day , which concluded my last chapter , he received a letter from Canada . 
His wife was out with eggs ; so he caught little Rose Sutton , that had more than once spelled an epistle for him ; and she read it out in a loud and reckless whine : ``` At -- noon -- this -- very -- daie -- Muster -- Hardie 's a-g-e-n-t -- aguent -- d-i-s dis , h-o-n -- Honoured -- dis-Honoured -- a -- bill ; and sayed . 
``` Now -- Fatther -- if -- you -- leave -- a s-h-i-l-l-i-n-g , shilling -- at -- Hardie 's -- after -- this -- b-l-a-m-e -- ble-am -- your -- self -- not -- me -- for -- this -- is -- the waie -- the -- r-o-g-u-e-s -- rogews -- all -- bre-ak -- they -- go -- at -- a -- d-i-s-t-a-n-c-e -- distance -- first -- and -- then -- at -- h-o-m-e -- whuoame . 
By-the-by , I believe Mr. Hardie means to offer you some grounds he is buying outside the town : will that suit your book ? '' 
Counting of it out , that will help pass the time till Muster Hardie comes . 
Did he think old Bob Skinner 's son would blow on Hardie after all these years ? 
This rankled a little , and set him to console himself by admiring his own cleverness in penetrating this great distrustful man . 
Now of all sentiments Vanity is the most restless and the surest to peep out ; Skinner was no sooner inflated , than his demure obsequious manner underwent a certain change ; slight and occasional only : but Hardie was a subtle man , and the perilous path he was treading made him wonderfully watchful , suspicious , and sagacious : he said to himself , `` What has come to Skinner ? 
So he quietly watched his watcher ; and soon satisfied himself he suspected something amiss . 
It was two o'clock : Hardie had just arrived , and sat in the parlour Cato-like , and cooking . 
He found Mr. Hardie seated garbling his accounts with surpassing dignity . 
Mr. Hardie evaded his expostulation by a very simple means : he made no reply ; but continued his work , dignified as Brutus , inexorable as Fate , cool as Cucumber . 
He watched Mr. Hardie in silence , and said to himself , `` Curse you ! 
He waited , however , for some sign of relenting ; and , hoping for it , the water came into his own eyes . 
But Hardie was impassive as ice . 
Then the little clerk , mortified to the core , as well as wounded , ground his teeth , and drew a little nearer to this incarnate Arithmetic ; and said with an excess of obsequiousness : `` Will you condescend to give me a reason for turning me away all in a moment , after five and thirty years ' faithful services ? '' 
And Mr. Hardie waved him away so grandly , that he started and almost ran to the door . 
When he felt the handle , it acted like a prop to his heart . 
He stood firm ; and rage supplied the place of steady courage . 
He clung to the door , and whispered at his master ; such a whisper ; so loud , so cutting , so full of meaning and malice ; it was like a serpent hissing at a man . 
At this , Mr. Hardie raised his head from his book and eyed his crouching venemous assailant full in the face , majestically , as one can fancy a lion rearing his ponderous head , and looking lazily and steadily at a snake that has just hissed in a corner . 
But this was too slow , and too sure , for you ; you must be Rothschild in a day ; so you went into blind speculation , and flung old Mr. Hardie 's savings into a well . 
And now for the last eight months you have been doctoring the ledger ; '' Hardie winced just perceptibly ; `` you have put down our gains in white , our losses in black , and so you keep feeding your pocket-book and emptying our tills : the pear will soon be ripe , and then you will let it drop , and into the Bankruptcy Court we go . 
An agony went across Mr. Hardie 's great face ; and seemed to furrow as it ran . 
`` Not but what you are all right , sir , '' resumed his little cat-like tormentor , letting him go a little way , to nail him again by-and-by : `` you have cooked the books in time ; and Cocker was a fool to you . 
Hardie uttered something between a growl and a moan . 
Hardie turned his head away ; and , in that moment of humiliation and abject fear , drank all the bitterness of moral death . 
His manhood urged him to defy Skinner and return to the straight path , cost what it might . 
But how could he ? 
His own books were all falsified . 
He could place a true total before his creditors by simply adding the contents of his secret hoard to the assets of the Bank ; but with this true arithmetical result he could not square his books , except by conjectural and fabricated details , which would be detected , and send him to prison ; for who would believe he was lying in figures only to get back to the truth ? 
No , he had entangled himself in his own fraud , and was at the mercy of his servant . 
He took his line . 
thought Hardie . 
`` That is true , Skinner , '' said he ; `` I do indeed need a faithful and sympathising servant , to advise , support , and aid me . 
Thus Mr. Hardie bowed his pride to flatter Skinner : and soon saw by the little fellow 's heightened colour that this was the way to make him a clerk of wax . 
And all Mr. Hardie 's forced merriment died away , and his face betrayed his vexation for once . 
The youngster being gone , Mr. Hardie explained to his new ally in a few hurried words the danger that threatened him from Miss Julia Dodd . 
`` And now , '' said he , `` the women have sent her father to soften his . 
`` On no account , '' said Mr. Hardie , sharply , `` I shall make my business with you the excuse for cutting this love-nonsense mighty short . 
He then touched the bell , and both confederates fell into an attitude : never were a pair so bent over their little accounts ; lies , like themselves . 
Hardie gave his mechanically , and remained on his guard ; but somewhat puzzled . 
Dodd shook his cold hand heartily . 
`` I am highly honoured , sir , '' said Hardie : then , rather stiffly and incredulously , `` and to what may I owe this extraordinary preference ? 
Hardie stared ; but was as much on his guard as ever ; only more and more puzzled . 
At this Skinner wheeled round on his stool to look , and both he and Mr. Hardie inspected the unusual pantomime with demure curiosity . 
Dodd next removed the oilskin cover , and showed the pocket-book , brought it down with a triumphant smack on the hollow of his hand , and , in the pride of his heart , the joy of his bosom , and the fever of his blood -- for there were two red spots on his cheek all the time -- told the cold pair Its adventures in a few glowing words ; the Calcutta firm , -- the two pirates , -- the hurricane , -- the wreck , -- the land sharks , -- he had saved It from . 
said Hardie , a little sneeringly . 
Then he lowered his voice , and said with a certain awe : `` It 's -- fourteen -- thousand -- pounds . '' 
cried Hardie . 
He then opened the pocket-book and spread the contents out before Mr. Hardie , who ran over the notes and bills , and said the amount was 14,010 l. 12s . 
`` You mistake me , '' said Hardie , with a smile . 
He then unlocked a desk ; took out a banker 's receipt ; and told Skinner to fill it in . 
Skinner counted the notes and left them with Mr. Hardie : the bills he took to his desk to note them on the back of the receipt . 
Whilst he was writing this with his usual slowness and precision , poor Dodd 's heart overflowed : `` It is my children 's fortune , ye see : I do n't look on a sixpence of it as mine : that it is what made me so particular . 
Then Mr. Hardie rested his senatorial head on his hand , and pondered deeply . 
Hardie 's is good for another hundred years . '' 
Alfred Hardie , my son , and my creditor , deep in love with No. 2 , and at present somewhat alienated from me by my thwarting a silly love affair ; which bids fair to improve into a sound negotiation . 
`` In that interval I talk Alfred over : and promise to produce the 14,000 l. intact , with my paternal blessing on him and Miss Dodd ; provided he will release me from my debt to him , and give me a life interest in half the money settled on him by my wife 's father to my most unjust and insolent exclusion . 
`` I will not forget you , '' said Hardie , wincing under the chain this little wretch held him with , and had jerked him by way of reminder . 
`` You are right , '' said Mr. Hardie , gloomily ; `` it is idle to talk : we are all the slaves of circumstances . '' 
With this , he unlocked a safe that stood against the wall , chucked the 14,000 l. in , and slammed the iron door sharply ; and , as it closed upon the Cash with a clang , the parlour door burst open as if by concert , and David Dodd stood on the threshold , looking terrible . 
He was gardener as well as capitalist : and Mr. Hardie owed him thirty shillings for work . 
And he looked him all over as if he expected to see `` WRECKED '' branded on him by the elements . 
`` Stay a bit , captain , '' said Maxley : `` I am not quite easy in my mind ; I saw you come out of Hardie 's ; I thought in course you had been in to draa : but you says different . 
Why , it 's not mine , James ; it 's my children 's : there , good-bye ; '' and he was actually off this time . 
But Maxley stretched his long limbs , and caught him in two strides , and griped his shoulder without ceremony : `` Be you mad ? '' 
, said he , sternly . 
`` Before I lets you go , you must tell me whether you be jesting , or whether you have really been so simple as to drop fourteen -- thousand -- pounds at Hardie 's ? '' 
lookee yander now ; if there ai n't Master Alfred a watching of us two out of his window : and he have got an eye like a hawk , he have . 
It was Alfred Hardie , who had stolen on him like a cat . 
`` Maxley , old fellow , '' said Alfred , in a voice as coaxing as a woman 's , `` are you in a good humour ? '' 
`` Then tell me , '' whispered Alfred , his eyes sparkling , and his face beaming , `` who was that you were talking to just now ? 
While Dodd stood lowering in the doorway , he was nevertheless making a great effort to control his agitation . 
At last he said in a stern but low voice , in which , however , a quick ear might detect a tremor of agitation : `` I have changed my mind , sir : I want my money back . '' 
At this , though David 's face had prepared him , Mr. Hardie 's heart sank : but there was no help for it : he said faintly : `` Certainly . 
and there he stopped ; for it was hardly prudent to ask anything . 
`` No matter , '' replied Dodd , his agitation rising even at this slight delay : `` come ! 
Hardie drew himself up majestically . 
`` Well , I beg your pardon , '' said Dodd , a little awed by his dignity and fairness : `` but I ca n't help it . '' 
`` That is unfortunate , '' remarked Hardie . 
Hardie smiled : `` No , no ; but because he has locked it up ; and carried away the key . '' 
`` Certainly not , '' said Hardie , stoutly . 
The dignified Mr. Hardie felt ready to sink with shame : a kind of shudder passed through him , and he was about to comply , heart-sick : but then wounded pride and the rage of disappointment , stung him , and he turned in defiance : `` You are impertinent , sir : and I shall not reward your curiosity and your insolence by showing you the contents of my safes . '' 
His face black and convulsed with rage , and his outstretched fingers working convulsively , and hungering for a rogue 's throat , made the resolute Hardie quake ; he whipped out of the furious man 's way , and got to the safe pale and trembling . 
he gasped : `` I 'll give you your money this moment , you ruffian . '' 
While he unlocked the safe with trembling hands , Dodd stood like a man petrified ; his arm and fingers stretched out and threatening ; and Skinner saw him pull at his necktie furiously , like one choking . 
Hardie got the notes and bills all in a hurry , and held them out to Dodd . 
In which act , to his consternation , and surprise , and indignation , he received a back-handed blow on the eye that dazzled him for an instant ; and there was David with his arms struggling wildly , and his fists clenched , his face purple , and his eyes distorted so that little was seen but the whites ; the next moment his teeth gnashed loudly together , and he fell headlong on the floor with a concussion so momentous , that the windows rattled , and the room shook violently ; while the dust rose in a cloud . 
A loud ejaculation burst from Hardie and Skinner . 
When David fell senseless on the floor Mr. Hardie was somewhat confused by the back-handed blow from his convulsed and whirling arm . 
Then Hardie turned to seize the bell and ring for assistance ; but Skinner shook his head and said it was useless ; this was no faint : old Betty could not help him . 
What did he see now , but Mr. Hardie , with his back turned , putting the notes and bills softly into the safe again out of sight . 
He saw , comprehended , and took his own course with equal rapidity . 
cried Mr. Hardie ; `` I 'll take care of him ; every moment is precious . '' 
Already egotism had whispered Hardie , `` How lucky if he should die ! '' 
and now a still guiltier thought flashed through him : he did not try to conquer it ; he only trembled at himself for entertaining it . 
said he , in a quavering voice , consenting in a crime , yet compromising with his conscience , feebly . 
He threw the window open with great zeal , with prodigious zeal ; for he wanted to deceive himself as well as Skinner . 
With equal parade he helped carry Dodd to the window ; it opened on the ground : this done , the self-deceivers put their heads together , and soon managed matters so that two porters , known to Skinner , were introduced into the garden , and informed that a gentleman had fallen down in a fit , and they were to take him home to his friends , and not talk about it : there might be an inquest , and that was so disagreeable to a gentleman like Mr. Hardie . 
It was all done in a great hurry and agitation , and while Skinner accompanied the men to see that they did not blab , Mr. Hardie went into the garden to breathe and think . 
But he could do neither . 
He must have a look at It . 
He stole back , opened the safe , and examined the notes and bills . 
He fingered them . 
They seemed to grow to his finger . 
He lusted after them . 
He said to himself , `` The matter has gone too far to stop ; I must go on borrowing this money of the Dodds ; and make it the basis of a large fortune : it will be best for all parties in the end . '' 
He put It into his pocket-book ; that pocket-book into his breast-pocket ; and passed by his private door into the house : and to his dressing-room . 
Ten minutes later he left the house with a little black bag in his hand . 
`` What will ye give me , and I 'll tell ye , '' said Maxley to Alfred Hardie . 
Alfred consented readily , and paid the money . 
Then Maxley told him it was Captain Dodd he had been talking with . 
cried Alfred , joyfully , `` but I was afraid to believe it : it was too delightful : Maxley , you 're a trump : you do n't know what anxiety you have relieved me of ; some fool has gone and reported the Agra wrecked ; look here ! '' 
and he showed him his Lloyd 's ; `` luckily it has only just come ; so I have n't been miserable long . '' 
He then surprised Alfred by telling him all he had just learned from Dodd ; and was going to let out about the fourteen thousand pounds , when he recollected this was the Banker 's son ; and while he was talking to him , it suddenly struck Maxley that this young gentleman would come down in the world , should the bank break : and then the Dodds , he concluded , judging others by himself , would be apt to turn their backs on him . 
Now he liked Alfred , and was disposed to do him a good turn , when he could without hurting James Maxley . 
`` Mr. Alfred , '' said he , `` I know the world better than you do : you be ruled by me , or you 'll rue it : you put on your Sunday coat this minute ; and off like a shot to Albyn Villee ; you 'll get there before the captain : he have got a little business to do first ; that is neither here nor there : besides , you are young and lissom . 
A good deal of this was unintelligible to Alfred ; but the advice seemed good ; advice generally does when it squares with our own wishes : he thanked Maxley , left him , made a hasty toilet , and ran to Albion Villa . 
Sarah opened the door to him ; in tears . 
Alfred saw her on the stairs , and at sight of her pale , agitated face , flew to her . 
She held out both hands piteously to him : `` Oh Alfred ! '' 
he panted . 
she murmured , in her sweet gurgle so full of heart : then took his head passionately with both her hands , as if she was going to kiss him : uttered a little inarticulate cry of love and gratitude over him , then turned and flew up the stairs , crying `` Mamma ! 
When two such Impetuosities meet , as Alfred and Julia , expect quick work . 
What happened in Mrs. Dodd 's room may be imagined : and soon both ladies came hastily out to Alfred , and he found himself in the drawing-room seated between them , and holding a hand of each , and playing the man delightfully , soothing and assuring them ; Julia believed him at a word , and beamed with unmixed delight and anticipation of the joyful meeting ; Mrs. Dodd cost him more trouble : her soft hand trembled still in his ; and she put question upon question . 
But , when he told her he with his own eyes had seen Captain Dodd talking to Maxley , and gathered from Maxley he had been shipwrecked on the coast of France , and lost his chronometer and his sextant , these details commanded credit ; bells were rung : the captain 's dressing-room ordered to be got ready ; the cook put on her mettle , and Alfred invited to stay and dine with the long-expected one : and the house of mourning became the house of joy . 
Julia ran to Alfred : `` If he does not come in ten minutes , you and I may go and meet him . '' 
`` You are an angel , '' murmured Alfred . 
Julia 's eyes were a challenge : Alfred started up and took her ready hand , and soon the gay young things were whirling round , the happiest pair in England . 
But in the middle of the joyous whirl , Julia 's quick ear on the watch all the time , heard the gate swing to : she glided like an eel from Alfred 's arm , and ran to the window . 
Alfred ran after her . 
In the terror and confusion no questions were then asked : Alfred got to David 's head , and told Skinner to take his feet ; Mrs. Dodd helped , and they carried him up and laid him on her bed . 
The servant girls cried , and wailed , and were of little use ; Mrs. Dodd hurried them off for medical aid , and she and Julia , though pale as ghosts , and trembling in every limb , were tearless , and almost silent , and did all for the best : they undid a shirt button , that confined his throat : they set his head high , and tried their poor little eau-de-Cologne and feminine remedies : and each of them held an insensible hand in both hers , clasping it piteously and trying to hold him tight , so that Death should not take him away from them . 
Alfred threw his arm round her neck : `` You have one son here : what shall I do ? '' 
The next minute he was running to the telegraph office for her . 
At the gate he found Skinner hanging about , and asked him hurriedly how the calamity had happened . 
And Alfred ran off with the words in his mouth . 
And he went back , hanging his head , to Alfred 's father . 
And there was Alfred hanging over her , and in agony at her grief ; out came his love for her in words and accents unmistakable , and this in Osmond 's hearing and the maid 's . 
They told him they knew nothing ; but that David had been wrecked on the coast of France , and had fallen down senseless in the street : a clerk of Mr. Hardie 's had recognized him , and brought him home : so Alfred said . 
Suddenly there came from the bed , like a thunderclap , two words uttered loud and furiously : `` Hardie ! 
While she stood fluttering , the footsteps came close , and there emerged from the passage into the full light of the gas-lamp Alfred and two policemen carrying a silent , senseless , figure , in a night-gown , with a great coat thrown over part of him . 
The policemen still tell of that strange meeting under the gas-light by Hardie 's Bank ; and how the young lady flung her arms round her father 's head , and took him for dead , and kissed his pale cheeks , and moaned over him ; and how the young gentleman raised her against her will , and sobbed over her ; and how they , though policemen , cried like children . 
On the way something cold and mysterious seemed to have come between Julia and Alfred . 
The footman told him Mr. Hardie was not at home ; gone to London , he believed . 
He smiled at his fears , and felt positive Mr. Hardie had misled the servants , and was quietly waiting for him in the Bank parlour . 
It was now dusk : he went round to that little dark nook of the garden the parlour window opened on , and tapped : there was no reply ; the room looked empty . 
He tried the sash : it yielded : Mr. Hardie had been too occupied with embezzling another 's property to take common precautions in defence of his own ; never in his life before had he neglected to fasten the iron shutters with his own hand , and today he had left the very window unfastened . 
A light was still burning in Alfred 's room : and at this Skinner had another touch of compunction ; `` There is one wo n't sleep this night along of our work , '' thought he . 
At three next afternoon Mr. Hardie reappeared . 
He had gone up to town to change the form of the deposit : -- He took care to think of it as a deposit still , the act of deposit having been complete , the withdrawal incomplete , and by no fault of his , for he had offered it back ; but Fate and Accident had interposed -- . 
He had converted the notes into gold direct , and the bills into gold through notes ; this was like going into the river to hide his trail . 
Next process : he turned his gold into 500l . 
His return was greeted by Skinner with a sigh of relief . 
Hardie heard it , interpreted it aright , and sent for him into the parlour : and there told him with a great affectation of frankness what he had done : then asked significantly if there was any news at Albion Villa . 
Skinner in reply told Mr. Hardie of the distress he had witnessed up at Albion Villa : `` And , sir , '' said he , lowering his voice , `` Mr. Alfred helped carry the body up-stairs . 
all the better , '' was the cool reply ; `` he will be useful to let us know what we want ; he will tell Jane , and Jane me . 
You do n't think he will live , do you ? '' 
Did not he say he had just landed , and been shipwrecked ? 
`` No , no , Skinner , '' said Mr. Hardie , with increasing alarm : `` it is useless for us to deceive ourselves : I was not three minutes in the room , and thought of nothing but getting to town and cashing the bills . '' 
He rang the bell sharply , and on Betty coming in , asked her what she had done with that paper that was on the floor ? 
said Mr. Hardie : `` the one I mean was much smaller than that . 
Mr. Hardie 's eye fell directly on the basket , but it was empty . 
She caught his glance , and told him she had emptied it in the dust-hole as usual . 
Mr. Hardie uttered an angry exclamation . 
Betty , an old servant of his wife 's , resented it with due dignity by tossing her head as she retired . 
`` There is no help for it , '' said Mr. Hardie , bitterly ; `` we must go and grub in the dust-hole now . '' 
And he led the way to the kitchen ; and got up a little laugh , and asked the scullery maid if she could show Mr. Skinner and him the dust-hole . 
Mr. Hardie sat down in his parlour thoroughly discomposed ; Skinner watched him furtively . 
Hardie shook his head : `` That monstrous heap is all sold every year to the farmers . 
From that hour the cash Hardie carried in his bosom , without a right to it , began to blister . 
He thought of telling the dustman he had lost a paper , and setting him to examine the mountain of ashes on the London road : but here caution stepped in ; how could he describe the paper without awakening curiosity and defeating his own end ? 
He gave that up . 
Finally , he resolved to buy security in a world where after all one has to buy everything ; so he employed an adroit agent , and quietly purchased that mountain , the refuse of all Barkington . 
But he felt so ill used , he paid for it in his own notes ; by this means the treaty reverted to the primitive form of barter : Or exchange of commodities without the aid of money : see Homer , and Welsh Villages , passim . 
So then good-bye to the matrimonial combination Hardie had at first relied on to patch his debt to Alfred , and his broken fortunes . 
He found himself in a situation he could not see his way through by any mental effort ; there were so many objections to every course , and so many to its opposite . 
But the more he pondered on the course to be taken should Dodd live , the plainer did this dilemma stare him in the face ; either he must refund , or fly the country with another man 's money , and leave behind him the name of a thief . 
So it was with a reluctant and sick heart he went to the shipping office , and peered at the posters , to see when the next ship sailed for the United States . 
Still he did go . 
Intent on his own schemes , and expecting every day to be struck in front , he did not observe that a man in a rusty velveteen coat followed him , and observed this act ; and indeed all his visible acts . 
It is remarkable how truths sometimes flash on men at night in hours of nervous excitement : it was in one of these nightly reveries David Dodd 's pocket-book flashed back upon Mr. Hardie . 
He saw it before his eyes quite plain , and on the inside of the leather cover a slip of paper pasted , and written on in pencil or pale ink , he could not recal which . 
Why had he not taken it out of the dying man 's pocket ? 
he groaned ; `` to do anything by halves . '' 
Another night he got a far severer shock . 
Lying in his bed dozing , and muttering , as usual , he was suddenly startled out of that uneasy slumber by three tremendous knocks at the street door . 
He sprang out of bed , and in his confusion made sure the officers of justice were come for him : he began to huddle on his clothes with a vague notion of flight . 
He had got on his trousers and slippers , and was looking under his pillow for the fatal cash , when he heard himself called loudly and repeatedly by name ; but this time the sound came from the garden into which his bedroom looked . 
He opened it very softly , in trepidation and wonder , which were speedily doubled by what met his eyes ; for there , right in front of his window , stood an unearthly figure ; corresponding in every particular to that notion of a ghost in which we are reared , and which , when our nerves are healthy , we can ridicule as it deserves ; but somehow it is never cleaned out of our imagination so thoroughly as it is out of our judgment . 
you Hardie ! 
And the figure kneeled on the grass , and repeated the terrible imprecation almost in the same words ; that Hardie shrank back , and , resolute as he was , cowered with superstitious awe . 
And in fact Mr. Hardie , in the midst of his agitation , was dimly conscious of hearing a window open softly , not very far from him . 
He put his head out in great agitation , and whispered , `` Hush ! 
Internally cursing his hard fate , he got the fatal cash , put on his coat : hunted for the key of the Bank parlour , and , having found it , went softly down the stairs , unlocked the door , and went to open the shutters . 
At this moment his ear caught a murmur ; a low buzzing of voices in the garden . 
He naturally thought that Captain Dodd was exposing him to some of the townspeople ; he was puzzled what to do ; and like a cautious man as he was , remained passive , but on the watch . 
Presently the voices were quiet , and he heard footsteps come very slowly towards the window at which he stood , and then make for the little gate . 
On this he slipped into the kitchen , which faced the street , and got to a window there , and listened . 
His only idea was to catch their intentions , if possible , and meet them accordingly . 
He dared not open the window ; for above him on the pavement he saw a female figure half standing , half crouching : but soon that figure rushed wildly out of his sight to meet the footsteps , and then he ventured to open the window , and , listening , heard cries of despair , and a young heartbroken voice say her father was dead . 
-- that is all right , '' muttered Hardie . 
Still even this profound egotist was not yet so hardened , but that he felt one chill of horror at himself for the thought ; a passing chill . 
He listened and listened ; and by-and-by he heard the slow feet recommence their journey , amidst sobs and sighs ; and those sorrowful feet , and the sobs and sighs of his causing , got fainter and fainter , retreated , and left him in quiet possession of the fourteen thousand pounds he had brought down to give it up : two minutes ago it was not worth as many pence to him . 
He drew a long breath of relief . 
He went to his bed again , and by a resolute effort composed himself , and determined to sleep . 
And in fact he was just dropping off , when suddenly he started wide awake again : for it recurred to him vividly that a window in his house had opened , while David was cursing him and demanding his children 's money . 
So great was the confidence inspired by the old Bank , that many said it would come round , it must come round , in a month : but other of Mr. Hardie 's unfortunate clients recognised in the above a mere formula to let them down by degrees : they had seen many statements as hopeful end in a dividend of sixpence in the pound . 
Before the day closed , the scene at the Bank door was heartrending : respectable persons , reduced to pauperism in that one day , kept arriving and telling their fellow-sufferers their little all was with Hardie , and nothing before them but the workhouse or the almshouse : ruined mothers came and held up their ruined children for the Banker to see ; and the doors were hammered at , and the house as well as the Bank was beleaguered by a weeping , wailing , despairing crowd . 
The next day they mobbed Alfred and hissed him at the back door . 
Mr. Hardie sat calmly putting the finishing strokes to his fabricated balance-sheet . 
Hardie winced : this was the sort of appeal to touch him . 
But soon he recovered his sang froid : `` Thank you , '' said he , `` I 'm much obliged to you ; now I 'm in the right and you are in the wrong . '' 
And he put himself under protection of the police ; and fee 'd them so royally that they were zealous on his behalf , and rough and dictatorial even with those who thronged the place only to moan and lament and hold up their ruined children : `` You must move on , you Misery , '' said the Police . 
Alfred and Jane were heartbroken : they sat hand in hand in a little room , drawn closer by misfortune ; and heard the groans at their door ; and the tears of pity ran down their own cheeks hot with shame ; and Alfred wrote on the fly-leaf of his `` Ethics '' a vow to pay every shilling his father owed these poor people -- before he died . 
It was like him , and like his happy age ; at which the just and the generous can command , in imagination , the means to do kindred deeds . 
Soon he found , to his horror , that he had seen but a small per-centage of the distress his father had caused ; the greater griefs , as usual , stayed at home : behind the gadding woes lay a terrible number of silent , decent , ruined homes , and broken hearts , and mixed sorrows so unmerited , so complicated , so piteous , and so cruel , that he was ready to tear his hair to know them and not be able to relieve them instantly . 
They pitied him , but most of them were sufferers too by Hardie , and all they gave him did but buy a donkey and cart ; and with that he and his went slowly and sadly to a village ten miles distant from the place , where all his life had been spent in comfort and good credit . 
And so Infirmity crept about begging leave to cure Disease -- with what success may be inferred from this : Miss Phillips , a lady-like girl of eighteen , was taken up by Farmer Giles before Squire Langton , for stealing turnips out of a field : the farmer was hard , and his losses in Hardie 's bank had made him bitter hard , so the poor girl 's excuse , that she could not let her father starve , had no effect on him : to jail she should go.I find , however , that Squire Langton resolutely refused to commit Miss Phillips . 
To the same jail , by the same road , dragging their families , went the Rev. Henry Scudamore , a curate ; Philip Hall , a linendraper ; Neil Pratt , a shoemaker ; Simon Harris , a greengrocer ; and a few more ; but the above were all prudent , laborious men , who took a friendly glass , but seldom exceeded , until Hardie 's bankruptcy drove them to the devil of drink for comfort . 
But there came one to her bedside and told her the Bank was broken , and all the money gone she and her sisters had lent Mr. Hardie . 
But they had given Mr. Hardie a power of attorney to draw out all their consols . 
To save her old age from it she had deposited her wages in the Bank for the last twenty years ; and also a little legacy from Mr. Hardie 's father . 
The next instance led to consequences upon consequences : and that is my excuse for telling it the reader somewhat more fully than Alfred heard it . 
This little spar led to his telling her he had drawn out all their money : but , when she asked the reason , he snubbed her again , indirectly ; recommended her sleep . 
The Bank broke on a Tuesday : Maxley dug on impassive ; and when curious people came about him to ask whether he was a loser , he used to inquire very gravely , and dwelling on every syllable , `` Do -- you -- see -- anything -- green -- in this here eye ? '' 
Maxley sat smoking complacently ; and , when his turn came to groan , he said drily : `` I draad all mine a week afore . 
He added , however , a little sulkily : `` I was laad for slander once : scalded dog fears lue-warm water . '' 
With this he put his hand in his pocket , and after some delay pulled out a nice new crisp note and held it up : `` What is that ? 
`` Better say ` tai n't money at all , but only a wench 's curl paper : '' and he got up and snatched it fiercely out of the last inspector 's hand . 
`` Ye ca n't run your rigs on me , '' said he `` What an if I ca n't read words , I can figures ; and I spelt the ten out on every one of them , afore I 'd take it . '' 
Then Maxley snatched up his hat in great wrath , and some anxiety , and went out , followed by a peal . 
In five minutes he was at home ; and tossed the note into his wife 's lap . 
said he , controlling all appearance of anxiety , `` what d'ye call that ? '' 
She took up the note and held it close to the candle : `` Why Jem , it is a ten pound note , one of Hardie 's -- as was . '' 
And he told her all that had happened . 
`` Well , and so I have , ye foolish woman ; '' and he drew the whole packet out of his pocket and flung them fiercely on the table . 
these be all Hardie 's notes , '' she cried ; `` and what vally be Hardie 's notes when Hardie 's be broke ? '' 
Maxley staggered as if he had been shot . 
The woman 's eyes flashed fury at him : `` This is your work , ye born idiot : ` mind your own business , ' says you : you must despise your wedded wife , that has more brains in her finger than you have in all your great long useless carcase : you must have your secrets : one day poison , another day beggary : you have ruined me , you have murdered me : get out of my sight ! 
And in her ungovernable passion , she actually ran to the dresser for a knife : at which Maxley caught up a chair and lifted it furiously above his head to fling at her . 
All these things , and many more less tragic , but very deplorable , came to Alfred Hardie 's knowledge , and galled and afflicted him deeply . 
Alfred was not sorry she could take this view ; and left her unmolested to confound black with white , and wrong with right , at affection 's dictates : but his own trained understanding was not to be duped in matters of plain morality . 
And so , unable to cure the wrongs he deplored , unable to put his conscience into his pocket , like Richard Hardie , or into his heart like Jane , he wandered alone , or sat brooding and dejected : and the attentive reader , if I am so fortunate as to possess one , will not be surprised to learn that he was troubled too with dark mysterious surmises he half dreaded , yet felt it his duty , to fathom . 
It was on Alfred he had counted to keep him informed of David 's state : but , on his putting a smooth inquiry , the young man 's face flushed with shame , or anger , or something , and he gave a very short , sharp , and obscure reply . 
In reality he did not know much , nor did Sarah , his informant : for of late the servants had never been allowed to enter David 's room . 
Mr. Hardie , after this rebuff , never asked Alfred again ; but having heard Sampson 's name mentioned as Dodd 's medical attendant , wrote and asked him to come and dine , next time he should visit Barkington : `` You will find me a fallen man , '' said he ; `` to-morrow we resign our house and premises and furniture to the assignees , and go to live at a little furnished cottage not very far from your friends the Dodds . 
Now all Hardie wanted of him in reality was to know about David ; so when Jane had retired , and the decanter circulated , he began to pump him by his vanity . 
Sampson shook his head sorrowfully : Mr. Hardie 's eyes sparkled : Alfred watched him keenly and bitterly . 
`` But you came in and saved him , '' cried Alfred . 
`` Doctor Sampson , '' said Alfred , `` what do you mean by these mysterious words ? 
`` No , I have not had the courage to enter the house since the Bank -- '' he stopped in confusion . 
Alfred groaned aloud , and even his father experienced a momentary remorse ; but so steady had been the progress of corruption , that he felt almost unmixed joy the next instant : and his keenwitted son surprised the latter sentiment in his face , and shuddered with disgust . 
Mr. Hardie took it from his favourite 's little white hand , and smiled on her : he should not have to go to a foreign land after all : who would believe a madman if he should rave about his thousands ? 
He sipped his tea luxuriously , and presently delivered himself thus , with bland self-satisfaction : `` My dear Alfred , some time ago you wished to marry a young lady without fortune ; you thought that I had a large one : and you expected me to supply all deficiencies . 
And I presume , Alfred , you are not so far gone as to insist on propagating insanity , by a marriage with his daughter . '' 
At this conclusion , which struck her obliquely , though aimed at Alfred , Jane sighed gently ; and her dream of earthly happiness seemed to melt away . 
But Alfred ground his teeth , and replied with great bitterness and emotion : `` I think , sir , you are the last man who ought to congratulate yourself on the affliction that has fallen on that unhappy family I aspire to enter , all the more that now they have calamities for me to share -- '' `` More fool you , '' put in Mr. Hardie , calmly . 
Mr. Hardie assumed a puzzled air : `` I do n't see how that can be : do you , Jenny ? 
The son fixed his eyes on the father , and leaned across the table to him , till their faces nearly met . 
Mr. Hardie was taken by surprise for once , and had not a word to say ; but looked in his son 's face , mute and gasping as a fish . 
During this painful silence his children eyed him inquiringly ; but not with the same result ; for one face is often read differently by two persons : to Jane , whose intelligence had no aids , he seemed unaffectedly puzzled ; but Alfred discerned beneath his wonder the terror of detection rising , and then thrust back by the strong will : that stoical face shut again like an iron door ; but not quickly enough : the right words , the `` open sesame '' had been spoken , and one unguarded look had confirmed Alfred 's vague suspicions of foul play : he turned his own face away : he was alienated by the occurrences of the last few months , but Nature and tender reminiscences still held him by some fibres of the heart : in a moment of natural indignation he had applied the touchstone ; but its success grieved him ; he could not bear to go on exposing his father ; so he left the room with a deep sigh , in which pity mingled with shame and regret ; he wandered out into the silent night , and soon was leaning on the gate of Albion Villa , gazing wistfully at the windows , and sore perplexed , and nobly wretched . 
As he was going out , Mr. Hardie raised his eyebrows with a look of disinterested wonder and curiosity ; and touched his forehead to Jane , as much as to say , `` Is he disordered in his mind ? '' 
As soon as they were alone , he asked her coolly what Alfred meant . 
Then he examined her keenly about this fourteen thousand pounds : and found , to his relief , Alfred had never even mentioned it to her . 
He tormented himself with conjectures : through what channel did Alfred suspect him ? 
But then perhaps Alfred was their agent : they wished to try a friendly remonstrance through a mutual friend before proceeding to extremities ; this accorded with Mrs. Dodd 's character as he remembered her . 
The solution was reasonable ; but he was relieved of it by recollecting what Alfred had said , that he had not entered the house since the Bank broke . 
On this he began to hope Alfred 's might be a mere suspicion he could not establish by any proof , and at all events he would lock it in his own breast like a good son : his never having given a hint even to his sister favoured this supposition . 
Thus meditating , Mr. Hardie found himself at the gate of Albion Villa . 
Yet he had strolled out with no particular intention of going there . 
Had his mind , apprehensive of danger from that quarter , driven his body thither ? 
He took a look at the house : and the first thing he saw was a young lady leaning over the balcony , and murmuring softly to a male figure below , whose outline Mr. Hardie could hardly discern , for it stood in the shadow . 
Mr. Hardie was delighted : `` Aha , Miss Juliet , '' said he , `` if Alfred does not visit you , some one else does . 
He then withdrew softly from the gate , not to disturb the intrigue , and watched a few yards off ; determined to see who Julia 's nightly visitor was , and give Alfred surprise for surprise . 
He had not long to wait : the man came away directly , and walked , head erect , past Mr. Hardie , and glanced full in his face , but did not vouchsafe him a word . 
It was Alfred himself . 
Mr. Hardie was profoundly alarmed , and indignant : `` The young traitor ! 
And now he suspected female cunning and malice in the way that thunderbolt had been quietly prepared for him and launched , without warning , in his very daughter 's presence , and the result just communicated to Julia Dodd . 
In a very gloomy mood he followed his son , and heard his firm though elastic tread on the frosty ground , and saw how loftily he carried his head : and from that moment feared , and very , very , nearly hated him . 
The next day he feigned sick , and sent for Osmond . 
This ceremony performed , Mr. Hardie gossipped with him ; and , after a détour or two , glided to his real anxiety . 
The discussion was turned into an unexpected quarter by the entrance of Jane Hardie , who came timidly in and said , `` Oh , Mr. Osmond , I can not let you go without telling you how anxious I am about Alfred . 
He is so thin , and pale , and depressed . '' 
`` Nonsense , Jane , '' said Mr. Hardie ; `` have we not all cause to be dejected in this house ? '' 
But she persisted gently that there was more in it than that ; and his headaches were worse : and she could not be easy any longer without advice . 
To tell the truth , Miss Hardie , I have noticed a remarkable change in him , but I did not like to excite apprehensions : and so he mopes , does he ? 
But I do not mind that so much as his turning so pale and thin . '' 
This proposal did not at all suit Mr. Hardie ; he put his own construction on Alfred 's pallor and dejection , and was uneasy at the idea of his being cross-questioned by a couple of doctors : `` No , no , '' said he , `` Taff has fancies enough already ; I can not have you gentlemen coming here to fill his head with many more . '' 
Jane looked so imploringly , that Mr. Hardie yielded a reluctant assent , on those terms . 
Jane looked awestruck at their solemnity ; but Mr. Hardie , who was taking advice against the grain , turned satirical : `` Gentlemen , '' said he , `` be pleased to begin by moderating your own obscurity ; and then perhaps I shall see better how to cure my son 's : what the deuce are you driving at ? '' 
Dr. Wycherley explained to Mr. Hardie that there was a sort of general unreasonable and superstitious feeling abroad , a kind of terror of the complaint with which his son was threatened ; `` and which , instead of the most remediable of disorders , is looked at as the most incurable of maladies : '' it was on this account he had learned to approach the subject with singular caution , and even with a timidity which was kinder in appearance than in reality ; that he must admit . 
`` Well , you may speak out , as far as I am concerned , '' said Mr. Hardie , with consummate indifference . 
said Mr. Hardie , carelessly : `` I see ; the boy is going mad . '' 
inquired Mr. Hardie , perking up , and exhibiting his first symptom of interest in the discussion . 
The next instance he gave was of a stockbroker suffering under general paralysis and a rooted idea that all the specie in the Bank of England was his , and ministers in league with foreign governments to keep him out of it . 
`` Papa , '' said Jane , `` poor Alfred sleeps very badly : I hear him walking at all hours of the night . '' 
Jane clasped her hands , and the tears stood in her eyes ; so well did this description tally with poor Alfred 's case . 
Mr. Hardie assented adroitly ; for he was thinking whether he could not sift some grain out of all this chaff . 
Should Alfred blab his suspicions , here were two gentlemen who would at all events help him to throw ridicule on them . 
`` Not that I know of , '' said Mr. Hardie . 
Mr. Hardie 's blood ran cold : `` No , '' he stammered , `` not that I remember . '' 
`` I believe you are right , Jenny , '' said Mr. Hardie , taking the cue so unexpectedly offered him : `` he did say some nonsense I could not make head nor tail of ; but we all have our crotchets ; there , run away , like a good girl , and let me explain all this to our good friends here : and mind , not a word about it to Alfred . '' 
When she was gone , he said , `` Gentlemen , my son is madly in love ; that is all . '' 
They then dissuaded him earnestly from the idea of continental travel . 
`` Coelum non animam mutant qui trans mare currunt , '' said Wycherley , and Osmond explained that Alfred would brood abroad as well as at home , if he went alone : and Dr. Wycherley summed up thus : `` The most advisable course is to give him the benefit of the personal superintendence of some skilful physician possessed of means and appliances of every sort for soothing and restraining the specific malady . '' 
Mr. Hardie did not at first see the exact purport of this oleaginous periphrasis . 
He knitted his brows . 
Presently he caught a glimpse : but said he thought confinement was hardly the thing to drive away melancholy . 
Mr. Hardie was puzzled by this sentence , in which the speaker 's usual method was reversed , and the thought was bigger than the words . 
`` Oh , '' said Mr. Hardie , at last , `` I see . 
`` Well but , '' objected Mr. Hardie , `` if he is a sensible man , why does he want to go to an asylum ? '' 
Mr. Richard Hardie was not prepared to encounter one of his unhappy creditors thus publicly , and , to shorten the annoyance , would have dismissed him roughly : but he dared not ; for Maxley was no longer alone , nor unfriended : when Jane left him , to intercede for him , a young man joined him , and was now comforting him with kind words , and trying to get him to smoke a cigar : and this good-hearted young gentleman was the Banker 's son in the flesh , and his opposite in spirit , Mr. Alfred Hardie . 
Mr. Hardie asked Maxley sullenly what he wanted of them . 
And down went his head on his chest . 
said Mr. Hardie , peevishly : `` go on : you went to the magistrates , and what then ? '' 
And down went his head again . 
`` Well but , '' said Mr. Hardie , `` you can not expect me to go against the other magistrates . '' 
There was no malice in this ; it was a plain brokenhearted man 's notion of give and take ; but it was a home-thrust all the same ; and Mr. Hardie was visibly discountenanced , and Alfred more so . 
`` Well , well , '' said Mr. Hardie , `` I 'll give you an order for the Union . '' 
And his head dropped . 
`` Look here , Maxley , old fellow , '' said Alfred , sarcastically , `` you must go to the workhouse ; and stay there till you hoe a pauper ; take him for a crocodile , and kill him ; then you will get into an asylum whether the Barkington magistrates like it or not : that is the routine , I believe ; and as reasonable as most routine . '' 
Dr. Wycherley admired Alfred for this , and whispered Mr. Osmond , `` how subtly they reason . '' 
Mr. Hardie did not deign to answer his son , who indeed had spoken at him , and not to him . 
As for poor Maxley , he was in sad and sober earnest , and could not relish nor even take in Alfred 's irony : he lifted his head and looked Mr. Hardie in the face . 
`` You be a hard man , '' said he , trembling with emotion . 
With this he went into a rage , took a packet out of his pocket , and flung it at Mr. Hardie 's head before any one could stop him . 
But Alfred saw his game , stepped forward , and caught it with one hand , and with the dexterity of a wicket-keeper , within a foot of his father 's nose . 
`` Nec parvum sine mixturâ stultitiæ , '' retorted Alfred in a moment : and met his offensive gaze with a point-blank look of supercilious disdain . 
Then , having shut him up , he turned to Osmond : `` Come , '' said he , `` prescribe for this poor fellow , who asks for a hospital , so Routine gives him a workhouse : come , you know there is no limit to your skill and good nature : you cured Spot of the worms , cure poor old Maxley of his snakes ; oblige me . '' 
`` That I will , Mr. Alfred , '' said Osmond , heartily : and wrote a prescription on a leaf of his memorandum-book , remarking that , though a simple purgative , it had made short work of a great many serpents and dragons , and not a few spectres and hobgoblins into the bargain . 
''' With this parting blow the Oxonian suddenly sauntered away , unconscious , it seemed , of the existence of his companions . 
Mr. Hardie replied with some little hesitation , `` Yes ; and , excuse me , I thought he had rather the best of the battle with you . '' 
`` If I understand the doctor right , the two things are not opposed , '' remarked Mr. Hardie . 
He then put on his gloves , and , with much kindness but solemnity , warned Mr. Hardie not to neglect his son 's case , nor to suppose that matters could go on like this without `` disintegrating or disorganising the grey matter of the brain . 
I admit , '' said he , `` that in some recorded cases of insanity the brain on dissection has revealed no signs of structural or functional derangement , and that , on the other hand , considerable encephalic disorganisation has been shown to have existed in other cases without aberration or impairment of the reason : but such phenomena are to be considered as pathological curiosities , with which the empiric would fain endeavour to disturb the sound general conclusions of science . 
Alfred was not there to dispose of the tirade in two words , `` Petitio principii , '' and so smoke on : and , not being an university woman , she could not keep her eye on the original assumption while following the series of inferences the learned doctor built so neatly , story by story , on the foundation of the quicksand of a loose conjecture . 
`` Now not a word of this to Alfred , '' said Mr. Hardie . 
`` I shall propose to him a little foreign tour , to amuse his mind . '' 
`` Yes , but papa , if some serious change is really going on inside his poor head . '' 
Mr. Hardie smiled sarcastically . 
Then , after a while , he said parentally , `` My child , I must give you a lesson : men of the world use enthusiasts -- like those two I have just been drawing out -- for their tools ; we do n't let them make tools of us . 
Mr. Hardie led the way into the little dining-room . 
Mr. Hardie looked an inquiry . 
The little wretch raised his voice louder and louder at every sentence . 
Skinner , '' said Mr. Hardie , anxiously , `` you are under some delusion . 
Hardie entreated him to be calm . 
`` I 'll give it you , Skinner , '' said he , `` and with pleasure , if you will give me some security that you will not turn round , as soon as you have got it , and be my enemy . '' 
Mr. Hardie groaned aloud , but there was no help for it . 
`` Now we are friends again , sir : and I 'll give you a piece of advice ; mind your eye with Mr. Alfred ; he is down on us . '' 
inquired Mr. Hardie , with ill disguised anxiety . 
He met me this morning : and says he to me , ` Skinner , old boy , I want to speak a word to you . ' 
This intelligence discomposed Mr. Hardie terribly : it did away with all hope that Alfred meant to keep his suspicions to himself . 
said he , reproachfully . 
I 'm afraid of Mr. Alfred and the stone jug , so I 'm off to London , and there I 'll un-Skinner myself into Mr. Something or other , and make my thousand pounds breed ten . '' 
`` Having wronged nobody I can look anybody in the face , '' replied Alfred , looking him in the face point-blank . 
At this swift rejoinder , Mr. Hardie felt like a too confident swordsman , who , attacking in a passion , suddenly receives a prick that shows him his antagonist is not one to be trifled with . 
He was on his guard directly , and said coldly , `` You have been belying me to my very clerk . '' 
Mr. Hardie reflected on what Skinner had told him , and found he had made another false move . 
`` Nor to the Dodds , '' replied Alfred , calmly . 
inquired Mr. Hardie , innocently . 
Then suddenly turning on his father , with red brow and flashing eyes : `` the fourteen thousand pounds Captain Dodd brought home from India : the fourteen thousand pounds I heard him claim of you with curses : ay , miserable son , and miserable man , that I am , I heard my own father called a villain ; and what did my father reply ? 
Mr. Hardie turned pale , and almost sick : with these words of Alfred 's fled all hope of ever deceiving him . 
thought Mr. Hardie , `` he comes with a proposal : I 'll hear it , anyway . '' 
He then took a line well known to artful men : he encouraged Alfred to show his hand ; maintaining a complete reserve as to his own ; `` You say you did not communicate your illusion about this fourteen thousand pounds to Julia Dodd that night : may I ask then -LRB- without indiscretion -RRB- what did pass between you two ? '' 
Mr. Hardie coloured , but did not reply . 
He had passed from the irritable into the quietly vindictive stage . 
Alfred then deprecated further discussion of what was past , and said abruptly : `` I have an offer to make you : in a very short time I shall have ten thousand pounds ; I will not resign my whole fortune ; that would be unjust to myself , and my wife ; and I loathe and despise Injustice in all its forms , however romantic or plausible . 
Now this offer was no sooner made than Mr. Hardie shut his face , and went to mental arithmetic , like one doing a sum behind a thick door . 
He would have taken ten thousand : but five thousand did not much tempt him : besides , would it be five thousand clear ? 
He already owed Alfred two thousand five hundred . 
It flashed through him that a young man who loathed and despised Injustice -- even to himself -- would not consent to be diddled by him out of one sum while making him a present of another : and then there was Skinner 's thousand to be reimbursed . 
Alfred replied that foreign travel was his dream : but he could not leave Barkington while there was an act of justice to be done . 
`` Then do me justice , boy , '' said Mr. Hardie , with wonderful dignity , all things considered . 
He hid his face , to conceal its incongruous expression : and heaved a deep sigh . 
Alfred turned his head away and groaned . 
After a while he rose from his seat and went to the door ; but seemed reluctant to go : he cast a longing , lingering look on his father , and said beseechingly : `` Oh think ! 
Then he suddenly turned and threw himself impetuously on his knees ; `` Your father was the soul of honour ; your son loathed fraud and injustice from his cradle ; you stand between two generations of Hardies , and belong to neither ; do but reflect one moment how bright a thing honour is , how short and uncertain a thing life is , how sure a thing retribution is , in this world or the next : it is your guardian angel that kneels before you now , and not your son ; oh , for Christ 's sake , for my mother 's sake , listen to my last appeal . 
said Alfred , rising and turning suddenly calm as a statue : `` let us be gentlemen , if you please , even though we must be enemies . 
And he walked gently out of the room , and , as he passed the window , Mr. Hardie heard his great heart sob . 
He wiped his forehead with his handkerchief . 
`` A hard tussle , '' thought he , `` and with my own unnatural , ungrateful flesh and blood : but I have won it : he has n't told the Dodds ; he never will : and , if he did , who would believe him , or them ? '' 
At dinner there was no Alfred ; but after dinner a note to Jane informing her he had taken lodgings in the town , and requesting her to send his books and clothes in the evening . 
But Mr. Hardie was anxious her friendship with that family should continue ; it furnished a channel of news , and in case of detection might be useful to avert or soften hostilities ; so he answered rather sharply , `` On no account : the Dodds are an estimable family ; pray be as friendly with them as ever you can . '' 
And before I knew what I was about I had whispered ` Alfred ! ' 
And I said , ` Dear Alfred , when I am in doubt and difficulty , I go and pray to Him to guide me aright : have you done so ? ' 
No , that had never occurred to him : but he would , if I made a point of it ; and at any rate he could not go on in this way ; I should soon see him again , and , once his mind was made up , no shrinking from mere consequences , he promised me . 
Then we bade one another good night , and he went off holding his head as proudly as he used : and poor silly me fluttered , and nearly hysterical , as soon as I quite lost sight of him . '' 
Then Alfred began , not in his old imperative voice , but scarce above a whisper ; and oh the words such as none but himself in the wide world would have spoken -- I love him better than ever ; I pity him ; I adore him ; he is a scholar ; he is a chevalier ; he is the soul of honour ; he is the most unfortunate and proudest gentleman beneath the sun ; oh , my darling ! 
He said , ` Mrs. Dodd , and you Miss Dodd , whom I loved before I lost the right to ask you to be mine , and whom I shall love to the last hour of my miserable existence , I am come to explain my own conduct to you , and to do you an act of simple justice , too long delayed . 
Well , scarce five minutes before that , your father was standing on our lawn and called to the man , who was my father , in a loud voice -- it rings in my ears now -- `` Hardie ! 
And she said , ` Alfred , think what you are saying . 
He answered directly , ` Because it is the truth : and because I loathe injustice . 
I put both hands out to him and burst out , ` Oh , Alfred , why did you tell ? 
Oh , Julia , Julia , my lost love , you can never look on me again ; you must not love a man you can not marry , Cheat Hardie 's wretched son . 
`` We laid the poor proud creature on the sofa , and bathed his face with eau de Cologne . 
He spoke directly , and said that was nice , and ` My head ! 
And I do n't think he was ever quite insensible , but he did not know what was going on , for presently he opened his eyes wide , and stared at us so , and then closed them with oh such a sigh ; it swelled my heart almost to bursting . 
And to think I could say nothing : but mamma soothed him and insisted on his keeping quiet ; for he wanted to run away from us . 
She was never so good to him before : she said , ` My dear child , you have my pity and my esteem ; alas ! 
he asked . 
` Yes , ' said she , ` right or wrong . ' 
Then she turned to me : ` Julia , shall all the generosity be on his side ? ' 
Alfred was clearer sighted than I , and never had a hope : he put his arm round mamma and kissed her , and she kissed him : and he kissed my hand , and crept away , and I heard his step on the stair , and on the road ever so far , and life seemed ended for me when I heard it no more . 
My poor , poor , unhappy , noble Alfred ! '' 
` Look here , Hardie , ' said he , ` if anybody but you had told us about this fourteen thousand pounds , I should have set the police on your governor before now . 
` No , no , ' said Alfred , eagerly , ` out of love of justice . ' 
Alfred burst out impetuously , ` Oh , prove that to me , and let me be that sufferer . ' 
Alfred took his hand , and said , ` God bless you for telling me this . ' 
Then Edward turned to mamma and me ; and said , ` This poor fellow has left his father 's house because he wronged us : then this house ought to open its arms to him : that is only justice ; but now to be just to our side ; I have been to Mr. Crawford , the lawyer , and I find this Hardie junior has ten thousand pounds of his own . 
That ought to be settled on Julia , to make up for what she loses by Hardie senior 's -- I wo n't say what . ' 
Mamma rebuked him for his expressions , but approved his sentiments . 
But I did not care for his sentiments : for he smiled on me , and said , ` We two are of one mind ; we shall transfer our fortune to Captain Dodd , whom my father has robbed . 
Alfred returns to Oxford to make up for lost time ; the time spent in construing me instead of Greek : and at the end of term he is to come of age and marry -- somebody . 
It makes me tingle ; it thrills me ; it frightens me , deliciously : no , not deliciously ; anything but : for suppose , being both of us fiery , and they all say one of them ought to be cold blooded for a pair to be happy , I should make him a downright bad wife . 
Why then I hope I shall die in a year or two out of my darling 's way , and let him have a good one instead . 
Alfred found me sorrowful , and rested my forehead on his shoulder ; that soothed me , while it lasted . 
As soon as he was gone prayed earnestly on my knees not to make an idol of him . 
The Viceroy will be defeated , only I let him talk till Alfred is here to back me . 
Me , Me , Me , from one end to another : for when it is not about myself , it is about Alfred , and that it is my he-Me though not my she-one . 
Prayed for poorB Alfred . '' 
She is corresponding with Alfred ; indeed she makes no secret of it . 
Alfred announces his unalterable determination to marry Julia . 
He was silent for a long time : and then said , ` All the worse for both of them . ' 
What is it makes me think that man is no true friend to Alfred in his advice ? 
Alfred has written to his trustees , and announced his coming marriage , and told them he is going to settle all his money upon the Dodds . 
Papa quite agitated by this news : it did not come from Alfred ; one of the trustees wrote to papa . 
Wrote a faithful letter to Alfred while papa was writing to our trustee . '' 
Received this letter from Alfred : ` Dear Jane , I send you a dozen kisses and a piece of advice ; learn more ; teach less : study more ; preach less : and do n't be in such a hurry to judge and condemn your intellectual and moral superiors , on insufficient information . 
Your affectionate brother , Alfred . ' 
A poor return for me loving his soul as my own . 
I do but advise him the self-denial I myself pursue . 
Woe be to him if he rejects it . '' 
She says she fears that might seem like assuming the office of the mediator : and besides her mother is nearer Heaven than she is . 
Alfred returned . 
Went to meet him at the station . 
How bright and handsome he looked ! 
He kissed me so affectionately ; and was as kind and loving as could be : I , poor unfaithful wretch , went hangingM on his arm and had not the heart to dash his carnal happiness just then . 
He is gone there . '' 
Stole into Alfred 's lodging when he was out ; and , after prayer , pinned Deuteronomy xxvii . 
Alfred has been in my room , and nailed Matthew vii . 
-LSB- Specimen of Alfred 's comments . 
Then Mr. Crawford chatted , and let out Alfred had asked him to advance a hundred pounds for the wedding presents , & c. Papa said he might do so with perfect safety . 
Mr. Osmond here to-day ; and over my work I heard papa tell him Alfred is blackening his character in the town with some impossible story about fourteen thousand pounds . 
Papa seems to feel this engagement more than all his troubles , and , knowing by sad experience it is useless to expostulate with Alfred , I wrote a long and faithful letter to Julia just before luncheon , putting it to her as a Christian whether she could reconcile it to her profession to set a son against his father , and marry him in open defiance . 
In the evening Alfred came in looking very red , and asked me whether it was not self-reliant and uncharitable of me to condemn so many estimable persons , all better acquainted with the circumstances than I am . 
I replied with the fifth commandment . 
He bit his lip and said , ` We had better not meet again , until you have found out which is worthiest of honour , your father or your brother . ' 
Consider , we are four in number , of different dispositions , yet all of one mind about Julia marrying Alfred . 
May we not be right , may we not know something , we love you too well to tell you ? 
His words and his rich manly voice were so soothing ; I gave him just one hand while I still hid my burning face with the other ; he kissed the hand I yielded him , and left me abruptly . 
If Alfred should be right ! 
I am staggered now ; he puts it so much more convincingly . '' 
A letter from Alfred , announcing his wedding by special license for the 11th . 
Old Betty sided with Alfred , and combated in her place the creed of the parlour ; `` Why , according to Miss , the young sparrows are bound never to fly out of the nest ; or else have the Bible flung at 'em . 
Master Alfred 's time is come to leave we , and be master in a house of his own , as his father done before him , which he forgets that now ; he is grown to man 's estate , and got his mother 's money , and no more bound to our master than I be . '' 
But Peggy was a young woman with white eyelashes , and given to looking down , and not to speaking up ; she was always watching Mr Hardie in company , like a cat cream ; and hovering about him when alone . 
Betty went so far as to accuse her of colloguing with him against Alfred , and of `` setting her cap at master , '' which accusation elicited no direct reply , but stinging inuendoes hours after . 
Dr. Sampson , who was to give the bride away , arrived just before dinner-time : the party , including Alfred , sat down to a charming little dinner ; they ate beetles ' wings , and drank Indian muslin fifteen years in the wood . 
Julia and Alfred were profoundly happy at bottom ; yet their union was attended with too many drawbacks for boisterous gaiety , and Alfred , up to this time , had shown a seriousness and sobriety of bliss , that won Mrs. Dodd 's gratitude : it was the demeanour of a delicate mind ; it became his own position , at odds with his own flesh and blood for Julia 's sake ; it became him as the son-in-law of a poor woman so lately bereaved of her husband , and reduced to poverty by one bearing the name of Hardie . 
She would not have been left alone a minute if Julia 's mind had not been occupied just then with an affectionate and seemly anxiety : she earnestly desired to reconcile her Alfred and his sister before the wedding ; and she sat in the drawing-room thinking whether it could be done , and how . 
The persons so generously suspected were discussing a parchment Alfred had produced , and wanted signed : `` You are our trustee , my boy , '' said he to Edward : `` so just write your name here , and mine comes here , and the witnesses there : the Doctor and Sarah will do . 
inquired Alfred , hurt . 
Sampson laughed at this retort , and Alfred reddened ; he did not want the Deed read . 
But , while he hesitated , Sarah came in with Julia 's note , asking him to come to her for a minute . 
This sweet summons made him indifferent to prosaic things . 
`` Well , read away , '' said he : `` one comfort , you will be no wiser . '' 
said Alfred . 
That crib , gentlemen , '' added he severely , `` is now in my waistcoat pocket ; and you shall never see it -- for your impudence . 
And with this he flew up-stairs on the wings of love . 
Julia met him in the middle of the room all in a flutter : `` It is to ask you a favour . 
She then leaned one hand softly on his shoulder , and curving her lovely supple neck looked round into his face and watched it as she preferred her petition : `` It is about Jane and you . 
Alfred , '' said she with gentle impetuosity , `` now is the time ; your papa is away . '' 
`` Oh , is he ? '' 
said Alfred , carelessly . 
Sarah says Betty says he is gone to Uncle Thomas . 
So I know you wo n't refuse me , my own Alfred : it is to go to your sister this minute and make it up . '' 
objected Alfred ruefully . 
Make them an excuse : say the truth ; say it is Me : and come back to me with good news . '' 
Then she armed him with advice : `` You go to make peace ; it is our last chance ; now remember , you must be very generous , very sweet tempered . 
`` Try me , '' said she : and looked him earnestly in the face ; but lowered her long lashes slowly and shily , as she realized to what her Impetuosity was pledging itself . 
Alfred got his hat and ran to Musgrove Cottage . 
A man stepped out of the shadow of a hedge opposite Albion Villa , and followed him , keeping in shadow as much as possible . 
The door of Musgrove Cottage was opened to him by old Betty with a joyful start : `` Mr. Alfred , I declare ! 
`` Dearest Alfred , '' said she , `` can you think it ? 
''' `` Why , Jenny , '' said Alfred , `` how red your eyes are . '' 
When she recovered a little she told him , yes , she had been very unhappy : that he had always been a dear good brother to her , and the only one she had ; and that it cut her to the heart not to be at his wedding ; it seemed so unkind . 
Alfred set her on his knee , -- she had more soul than body , -- and kissed her and comforted her : and , in this happy revival of natural affection , his heart opened , he was off his guard , and told her all : gave her the several proofs their father had got the 14,000 l. Jane , arrested by the skill and logical clearness with which he marshalled the proofs , listened in silence ; and presently a keen shudder ran through her frame , and reminded him he was setting a daughter against her father . 
Oh , Alfred , this is a miserable world . '' 
Brother and sister then kissed one another affectionately ; and Alfred ran back like the wind to Albion Cottage . 
After waiting half an hour he got impatient , and sent Sarah to say he had a message for her . 
After waiting again a long time , Alfred persuaded Edward to try his luck . 
However Edward escaped at last , and told Alfred what was on foot , and drew a picture of the Bride with white above and white below . 
Alfred went home to his lodgings . 
He had not been there above ten minutes , when he came out hastily , and walked quickly to the `` White Lion , '' the principal inn in Barkington . 
Sampson looked at his watch , and said he could conduct the ladies to the church while Edward went for Alfred . 
This was agreed on after some discussion : Edward , however , to provide against all contingencies , begged Sampson not to wait for him should Alfred reach the church by some other road : `` I 'm only groomsman , you know , '' said he . 
A good many people high and low were about the door , and in the pews , waiting to see the beautiful Miss Dodd married to the son of a personage once so popular as Mr. Hardie : it had even transpired that Mr. Hardie disapproved the match . 
Now none of her own party had thought it wise to tell Julia there was any hitch : but Miss Hardie blurted out naturally enough : `` But where 's Alfred ? '' 
`` Are not he and Edward in another part of the church ? 
`` No , mamma , '' said Julia ; `` Alfred was to call for Edward ; because our house was on the way . '' 
At these plain proofs of Alfred 's infidelity , Julia 's sweet throat began to swell hysterically , and then her bosom to heave and pant : and , after a piteous struggle , came a passion of sobs and tears so wild , so heartbroken , that Edward blamed himself bitterly for telling her . 
Sampson made him drink a glass of wine , and then they got up from the half-finished meal and went hurriedly to Alfred 's lodgings , the Doctor , though sixty , rushing along with all the fire and buoyancy of early youth . 
Sampson concluded this was his man , and said roughly : `` Where did you drive young Hardie this morning ? '' 
`` Druv him to Silverton station , sir : and was n't long about it , either ; gent was in a hurry . '' 
The friends retired with this scanty information ; Alfred could hardly have gone to London : for there was a train up from Barkington itself at 8.30 . 
But he might have gone to almost any other part of the island , or out of it for that matter . 
After Alfred 's conduct she was free , and fully determined , to defend herself and family against spoliation by any means in her power ; so she now showed the doctor David 's letter about the 14,000 l. ; and the empty pocket-book ; and put together the disjointed evidence of Julia , Alfred , and circumstances , in one neat and luminous statement : Sampson was greatly struck with the revelation : he jumped off his chair and marched about excited ; said truth was stranger than fiction , and this was manifest swindle : then he surprised Mrs. Dodd in her turn by assuming that old Hardie was at the bottom of yesterday 's business . 
Put this and that together : Hardie senior always averse to this marriage ; Hardie senior wanting to keep 14,000 l. of yours : if his son , who knows of the fraud , became your mother 's son , the swindle would be hourly in danger -LRB- no connexion ? 
And so young Hardie is got out of the way : old Hardie 's doing , or I 'm a Dutchman . '' 
Gintlemen , I 'm a bit of a physiognomist : look at old Hardie 's lines ; his cords I might say ; and deeper every time I see him ; sirs , I 've an eye like a hawk ; there 's an awful weight on that man 's mind . 
Sampson laughed at her ; what was the use of attacking in the regular way an irregular genius like old Hardie ? 
`` Attorneys are too humdrum for such a job , '' said he ; `` they start with a civil letter putting a rogue on his guard ; they proceed t ' a writ , and then he digs a hole in another county and buries the booty ; or sails t ' Australia with it . 
This evening Mr. Hardie came along in a fly with his luggage on the box , returning to Musgrove Cottage as from Yorkshire : in passing Albion Villa he cast it a look of vindictive triumph . 
Jane made him some tea , and told him how Alfred had disappeared on his wedding-day . 
`` The young scamp , '' said he : he added , coolly , `` it is no business of mine ; I had no hand in making the match , thank Heaven . '' 
In the conversation that ensued , he said he had always been averse to the marriage ; but not so irreconcilably as to approve this open breach of faith with a respectable young lady : `` this will recoil upon our name , you know , at this critical time , '' said he . 
Mr. Hardie 's countenance fell at this announcement , and he looked almost diabolical . 
But on second thoughts he cleared up wonderfully : `` I will be frank with you , Jenny : if the wedding had come off , I should have been deeply hurt at your supporting that little monster of ingratitude ; he not only marries against his father 's will -LRB- that is done every day -RRB- , but slanders and maligns him publicly in his hour of poverty and distress . 
`` There , there , change the subject , '' said Mr. Hardie peevishly . 
Mr. Hardie shrugged his shoulders , and asked Jane if the girl had ever been saucy to her . 
Then he made me describe Alfred to a nicety : and the description will go up to London this morning , and all over Barkington , and the neighbourhood , and the county . '' 
She laid her soft hand on his shoulder as if to support herself floating in her sea of doubt : `` I do see I am a poor credulous girl ; but how can my Alfred be false to me ? 
Only , when he had removed the lather from one half his face , he happened to look out of window , and saw on the wall opposite -- a placard : a large placard to this effect : At sight of this Mr. Hardie was seized with a tremor , that suspended the razor in mid air : he opened the window , and glared at the doctor 's notice . 
At this moment he himself was a picture : not unlike those half cleaned portraits the picture restorers hang out as specimens of their art . 
`` Insolent interfering fool , '' he muttered , and began to walk the room in agitation . 
After a while he made a strong effort , shaved the other half , and dressed slowly , thinking hard all the time . 
The result was , he went out before breakfast -LRB- which he had not done for years -RRB- , and visited the `` White Lion . '' 
cried Mr. Hardie , losing all his calmness real or feigned ; and he rang the bell hastily . 
On Peggy 's appearing , he said anxiously , `` I do not wish that Notice interfered with . '' 
`` I should n't think of touching it without your orders , sir , '' said she , quietly , and shot him a feline glance from under her pale lashes . 
Jane coloured , and looked a little mortified : but on Peggy 's retiring , Mr. Hardie explained that , whether judicious or not , it was a friendly act of Dr. Sampson 's ; and to pull down his notice would look like siding with the boy against those he had injured : `` Besides , '' said he , `` why should you and I burk inquiry ? 
`` But , '' said she , `` the reason I repeat these things is to make peace , and that you may not fancy there is any one in our house so cruel , so unchristian , as to approve Alfred 's perfidy . 
Mrs. Dodd did not like to begin about Alfred ; but Jane had no such scruples ; she inveighed warmly against his conduct , and , ere she left the house , had quite done away with the faint suspicion Sampson had engendered , and brought both Mrs. Dodd and Edward back to their original opinion that the elder Hardie had nothing on earth to do with the perfidy of the younger . 
Mr. Hardie was being undermined by a man of his own calibre , one too cautious to communicate with the Dodds , or any one else , till his work looked ripe . 
After this inviting preamble he crept towards the 14,000 l. by artful questions ; and soon elicited that there had been high words between Master and Mr. Alfred about that very sum ; she had listened at the door and heard . 
Taking care to combine close courtship with cunning interrogatories , he was soon enabled to write to Dr. Sampson , and say that a servant of Mr. Hardie 's was down on him , and reported that he carried a large pocket-book in his breast-pocket by day ; and she had found the dent of it under his pillow at night ; a stroke of observation very creditable in an unprofessional female : on this he had made it his business to meet Mr. Hardie in broad day , and sure enough the pocketbook was always there . 
He added , that the said Hardie 's face wore an expression which he had seen more than once when respectable parties went in for felony : and altogether thought they might now take out a warrant and proceed in the regular way . 
To arrest Mr. Hardie on a warrant would entail a prosecution for felony , and separate Jane and Edward for ever . 
Green , by this time , knew all Mr. Hardie 's out of door habits ; and assured them that at ten o'clock he would walk up and down the road for at least half an hour , the night being dry . 
`` Well , say we shall know all about Alfred by eleven o'clock . '' 
So Edward made a stumble and fell against Mr. Hardie and felt his left breast : the pocket-book was there : -- `` Yes , '' he whispered : and Mr. Hardie , in the act of remonstrating at his clumsiness , was pinned behind , and his arms strapped with wonderful rapidity and dexterity . 
Then first he seemed to awake to his danger , and uttered a stentorian cry of terror , that rang through the night and made two of his three captors tremble . 
Mr. Hardie lowered his voice directly : `` Do not kill me , do not hurt me ; '' he murmured , `` I 'm but a poor man now . 
Mr. Hardie had now ceased to struggle and to exclaim ; he stood sullen , mute , desperate ; while an agitated face peered eagerly over each of his shoulders at the open pocket-book in Green 's hands , on which the lantern now poured a narrow but vivid stream of light . 
And Mr. Hardie , who of late had been gathering composure , showed some signs of agitation ; the two figures glaring over his shoulder shared , it , and his remonstrance only made Green examine the papers keenly : they might contain some clue to the missing money . 
At last , however , Green 's quick eye fell upon a fainter entry in pencil ; figures : 1 , 4 ; yes , actually 14,000 l. `` All right , '' he said : and took the paper close to the lantern , and began to spell it out : ``` This day Alfred told me to my face I had 14,000 l. of Captain Dodd 's . 
I had better withdraw -- ''' Here Mr. Hardie interrupted him with sorrowful dignity : `` These are mere family matters ; if you are a man respect them . '' 
''' Mr. Hardie stamped on the ground . 
A flutter of uneasiness seemed to come over the detective : he darkened his lantern , and replaced the pocket-book hurriedly in the prisoner 's breast , felt him all over in a minute , and , to keep up the farce , robbed him . 
`` Only eight yellow boys , '' said he contemptuously to his mates . 
He then slipped the money back into Hardie 's coat-pocket , and conducted him to his own gate , tied him to it by the waist , and ordered him not to give the alarm for ten minutes on pain of death . 
`` I consent , '' said Mr. Hardie , `` and thank you for abstaining from violence . '' 
`` All right , my tulip , '' said Mr. Green cheerfully ; and drew his companions quietly away . 
But the next moment he began to run , and , making a sudden turn , dived into a street , then into a passage , and so winded and doubled till he got to a small publichouse : he used some flash word , and they were shown a private room . 
`` Wait here an hour for me , '' he whispered ; `` I must see who liberates him , and whether he is really as innocent as he reads , or we have been countermined by the devil 's own tutor . '' 
The unexpected turn the evidence had taken , evidence of their own choosing too , cleared Mr. Hardie with the unprofessionals . 
Edward embraced this conclusion as a matter of course , and urged the character of that gentleman 's solitary traducer ; Alfred was a traitor , and therefore why not a slanderer ? 
He received their compliments on his Protean powers , and told them he had been just a minute too late ; Mr. Hardie was gone , and so he had lost the chance of seeing who came to help him , and of hearing the first words that passed between the two : this , he said , was a very great pity ; for it would have shown him in one moment whether certain suspicions of his were correct . 
Pressed as to what these suspicions were , he begged to be excused saying any more for the present . 
And so the confederates parted , and Sampson and Edward met at Albion Villa ; and Edward told his mother what they had done , and his conviction that Mr. Hardie was innocent , and Alfred a slanderer as well as a traitor : `` And indeed , '' said he , `` if we had but stopped to reflect , we should have seen how unlikely the money was not to be lost in the Agra . 
What we ought to have done was , not to listen to Alfred Hardie like fools , but write to Lloyd 's like people in their senses . 
All he insisted on was , that his placard about Alfred should be continued : he left money for this , and Edward against the grain consented to see it done . 
The above reward will be paid by Mr. Thomas Hardie , of Clare Court , Yorkshire . '' 
On this the impartial police came to Mr. Hardie 's and made inquiries . 
`` Mr. Hardie has the stiff , I think : but , if so , it is planted somewhere ; does n't carry it about him ; my Peggy is his mistress : nothing to be done till they split . '' 
Victorious so far , Mr. Hardie had still one pressing anxiety ; Dr. Sampson 's placard : this had been renewed , and stared him everywhere in the face . 
Every copy of it he encountered made him shiver : if he had been a man of impulse , he would have torn it down wherever he saw it : but he knew that would not do . 
This he did with excellent tact and judgment ; Peggy and a billsticker were seen in conference , and , soon after , the huge bills of a travelling circus were pasted right over both the rival advertisements in which the name of Hardie figured . 
On the Monday morning Peggy brought in the letters , and Jane saw one in Alfred 's handwriting . 
She snatched it up , and cried `` Papa , from Alfred ! '' 
`` Unhappy Alfred ! '' 
`` Unhappy Alfred ! '' 
`` Oh never mind me , '' said Mr. Hardie ; `` now that I know no harm has come to him , I really do n't care a straw : I have got one child that loves me , and that I love . '' 
She rose from the table and sealed this with a pious kiss ; and , when she sat down with a pink flush on her delicate cheek , his hard eye melted and dwelt on her with beaming tenderness . 
His heart yearned over her , and a pang went through it : to think that he must deceive even her , the one sweet soul that loved him ! 
It was a passing remorse : the successful plotter soon predominated , and it was with unmixed satisfaction he saw her put on her bonnet directly after breakfast , and hurry off to Albion Villa to play the part of his unconscious sieve . 
He himself strolled in the opposite direction , not to seem to be watching her . 
He was in good spirits ; felt like a general , who , after repulsing many desperate attacks successfully , orders an advance , and sees the tide of battle roll away from his bayonets . 
His very body seemed elastic , indomitable ; he walked lustily out into the country , sniffed the perfumed hedges , and relished life . 
To be sure he could not walk away from all traces of his misdeeds ; he feel in with objects , that to an ordinary sinner might have spoiled the walk , and even marred the spring-time ; he found his creditor Maxley with grizzly beard , and bloodshot eyes , belabouring a milestone ; and two small boys quizzing him , and pelting him with mud : and soon after , he met his creditor , old Dr. Phillips , in a cart , coming back to Barkington to end his days there , at the almshouse . 
Mr. Hardie rose like a tower and manned himself to repulse this fresh assault . 
She sighed ; and then , partly to divert his attention , told him hastily there was a letter from Alfred . 
On this he ran upstairs and told Mrs. Dodd ; and she came down stairs , and after a conversation took Jane up softly to her friend 's room . 
`` Julia dear , '' said Jane , `` your fears are extravagant ; indeed : Alfred is alive , we know . '' 
`` He has written to-day . '' 
said Mr. Hardie superciliously . 
asked Mr. Hardie , beginning to be uneasy . 
Mr. Hardie rose hurriedly and put on his hat , and accompanied him , half confused . 
At this blunt declaration , so new and so offensive to him , Mr. Hardie winced , and stopped bewildered . 
`` Oh , Mr. Hardie , '' she said in a broken voice , and took him , and led him , wonderstruck , stupified , shivering with dark fears , to the room where his crushed daughter lay . 
The note Alfred Hardie received on the 10th of April , was from Peggy Black . 
`` Mr. Alfred , Sir , `` Margaret Black sends her respects , and if you want to know the truth about the money , I can tell you all , and where it is at this present time . 
Alfred read this twice over , and felt a contemptuous repugnance towards the writer , a cashiered servant , who offered to tell the truth out of spite , having easily resisted every worthy motive . 
Indeed , I think he would have perhaps dismissed the subject into the fire , but for a strange circumstance that had occurred to him this very afternoon ; but I had no opportunity to relate it till now . 
Well , just as he was going to dress for dinner , he received a visit from Dr. Wycherley , a gentleman he scarcely knew by name . 
Dr. Wycherley inquired after his kephalalgia ; Alfred stared and told him it was much the same ; troubled him occasionally . 
Dr. Wycherley smiled with a sort of benevolent superiority , that galled his patient , and proceeded to inquire after his nightly visions and voices . 
But at this Alfred looked grave as well as surprised and vexed . 
He was on his guard now , and asked himself seriously what was the meaning of all this , and could his father have been so mad as to talk over his own shame with this stranger : he made no reply whatever . 
Dr. Wycherley 's curiosity was not of a very ardent kind : for he was one of those who first form an opinion , and then collect the materials of one : and a very little fact goes a long way with such minds . 
So , when he got no answer about the nocturnal visions and voices , he glided calmly on to another matter . 
Alfred started ; and then eyed him keenly : `` What 14,000 l. ? '' 
This was too much for Alfred 's patience : `` I do n't know who you are , sir , '' said he ; `` I never exchanged but three words in my life with you , and do you suppose I will talk to a stranger on family matters of so delicate a kind as this ? 
And he handed Alfred a card , on which his name and profession were written . 
`` Well , Mr. Speers , '' said Alfred , `` I have only a moment to give you , for I must dress for dinner . 
At this Alfred rose and put his hands in his pockets and looked down grimly on his inquisitor . 
`` Mr. Speers , '' said he , `` you had better go . 
Alfred soon cooled , and began to laugh at his own anger and the unbounded impudence of his visitors : but , on the other hand , it struck him as a grave circumstance that so able a man as his father should stir muddy water ; should go and talk to these strangers about the money he had misappropriated . 
He puzzled himself all the time he was dressing : and , not to trouble the reader with all the conjectures that passed through his mind , he concluded at last , that Mr. Hardie must feel very strong , very sure there was no evidence against him but his son 's , or he would not take the eighth commandment by the horns like this . 
`` Injustice carries it with a high hand , '' thought Alfred , with a sigh . 
He was not the youth to imitate his father 's shamelessness : so he locked this last incident in his own breast ; did not even mention it to Julia . 
But now , on reading Peggy 's note , his warlike instincts awoke , and , though he despised his correspondent and her motives , he could not let such a chance pass of defeating brazen injustice . 
It was unfortunate and awkward to have to go to Silverton on his wedding morning ; but , after all , there was plenty of time . 
He packed up his things at once for the wedding tour , and in the morning took them with him in the fly to Silverton : his plan was to come back direct to Albion Villa : so he went to Silverton Grove full dressed , all ready for the wedding . 
As it happened he overtook his friend Peterson just outside the town , called to him gaily , and invited him to church and breakfast . 
To his surprise the young gentleman replied sullenly that he should certainly not come . 
said Alfred , hurt . 
Peterson 's complaint was that he had told Alfred he was in love with Julia , and Alfred had gone directly and fallen in love with her just to cut him out . 
said Alfred : `` so this is the reason you have kept away from me of late : why , I was engaged to her at the very time ; only my father was keeping us apart . '' 
On the road our ardent youth arranged in his head a noble scheme . 
He would bring Peggy Black home with him , compensating her liberally for the place she would thereby lose : would confront her privately with his father , and convince him it was his interest to restore the Dodds their money with a good grace , take the 5000l . 
It was hard to do all this in the time , but well worth trying for , and not impossible ; a two-horse fly is not a slow conveyance , and he offered the man a guinea to drive fast ; so that it was not nine o'clock when they reached Silverton Grove House , a place Alfred had never heard of ; this , however , I may observe , was no wonder : for it had not borne that name a twelvemonth . 
`` There , do n't waste time , '' said Alfred impatiently , `` let me out . '' 
He found a notice under the bell , `` Ring and enter . '' 
He rang accordingly , and at the clang the hall-door opened , as if he had pulled a porter along with the bell ; and a grey-haired servant out of livery stood on the steps to receive him . 
Alfred hurried across the plat , which was trimmed as neatly as a college green , and asked the servant if he could see Margaret Black . 
The servant showed Alfred up the left-hand staircase , through the open door , into a spacious drawing-room , handsomely though not gaily furnished and decorated ; but a little darkened by Venetian blinds . 
The old servant walked gravely on , and on , till Alfred began to think he would butt the wall ; but he put his hand out and opened a door , that might very well escape a stranger 's notice ; for it was covered with looking-glass , and matched another narrow mirror in shape and size : this door led into a very long room , as plain and even sordid as the drawing-room was inviting ; the unpapered walls were a cold drab , and wanted washing ; there was a thick cobweb up in one corner , and from the ceiling hung the tail of another , which the housemaid 's broom had scotched not killed : that side of the room they entered by was all books . 
But Alfred 's nerves were not to be affected by trifles ; he put his hands in his pockets and walked up and down the room , quietly enough at first , but by-and-by uneasily . 
`` Confound her for wasting my time , '' thought he ; `` why does n't she come ? '' 
Then , as he had learned to pick up the fragments of time , and hated dawdling , he went to take a book from the shelves . 
He found it was a piece of iron , admirably painted : it chilled his hand with its unexpected coldness : and all the books on and about the door were iron and chilly . 
`` Well , '' thought he , `` this is the first dummy ever took me in . 
So he went to a door opposite , and at right angles to the farthest window ; meaning to open it and inquire after her : lo and behold he found this was a knob without a door . 
Alfred was a prisoner . 
He no sooner found this out than he began to hammer on the door with his fists , and call out . 
This had a good effect , for he heard a woman 's dress come rustling : a key was inserted , and the door opened . 
Mrs. Archbold , for that was her name , cast on Alfred one of those swift , all-devouring glances , with which her sex contrive to take in the features , character , and dress of a person from head to foot ; and smiled most graciously on him , revealing a fine white set of teeth . 
`` I came to see Margaret Black , '' said Alfred . 
Alfred laughed at this , and showed her Peggy 's letter . 
She ran her eye over it , and returned it him with a smile of a different kind , half pitying , half cynical . 
said he , surprised . 
`` I think we can render you great service in the matter , infinite service , Mr. Hardie , '' was the reply , in a voice of very honey . 
Alfred was amazed at this . 
`` Calm yourself , '' said Mrs. Archbold , laying a white and finely moulded hand upon his arm , `` there is no wonder nor mystery in the matter : you were expected . '' 
The colour rushed into Alfred 's face , and he started to his feet : some vague instinct told him to be gone from this place . 
The lady fixed her eyes on him , put her hand to a gold chain that was round her neck , and drew out of her white bosom , not a locket , nor a key , but an ivory whistle ; keeping her eye steadily fixed on Alfred , she breathed softly into the whistle . 
The latter spoke to Alfred , and began to coax him . 
cried Alfred ; `` are you mad ? '' 
`` Have done with this fooling , then , '' said Alfred , sharply ; `` the person I came to see is not here ; good morning . '' 
The short man instantly stepped to the door , and put his back to it . 
The other said , calmly , `` No , Mr. Hardie , you can not leave the house at present . '' 
said Alfred , drawing his breath hard : and his eyes began to glitter dangerously . 
said Alfred , panting now ; `` is this a prison ? '' 
At this fatal word , `` asylum , '' Alfred uttered a cry of horror and despair , and his eyes roved wildly round the room in search of escape . 
And his captors read that wild glance directly , and the doctor whipped one chair away , while Mrs. Archbold , with more tact , sat quietly down on the other . 
Alfred uttered an oath and rushed at the door : but heard heavy feet running on stone passages towards the whistles , and felt he had no chance out that way : his dilating eye fell upon the handle of the old defunct door : he made a high leap , came down with his left foot on its knob of brass , and , though of course he could not stand on it , contrived to spring from it slap at the window -- Mrs. Archbold screamed -- he broke the glass with his shoulder , and tore and kicked the woodwork , and squeezed through on to a stone ledge outside , and stood there bleeding and panting , just as half a dozen keepers burst into the room at his back . 
He was more than twenty feet from the ground : to leap down was death or mutilation ; he saw the flyman driving away . 
He yelled to him , `` Hy ! 
But soon as he saw who it was , he just grinned : Alfred could see his hideous grin ; and there was the rattle of chairs , being brought to the window , and men were mounting softly to secure him ; a coarse hand stole towards his ankle ; he took a swift step and sprang desperately on to the next ledge : -- it was an old manor house , and these ledges were nearly a foot broad : -- from this one he bounded to the next , and then to a third , the last but one on this side of the building ; the corner ledge was but half the size , and offered no safe footing : but close to it he saw the outside leaves of a tree . 
That tree then must grow close to the corner ; could he but get round to it he might yet reach the ground whole . 
Then he gave all up for lost , and looked to hear a voice denounce him : but no , the livid face and staring eyes at the window took no notice of him ; it was a maniac , whose eyes , bereft of reason , conveyed no images to the sentient brain : only by some half vegetable instinct this darkened man was turning towards the morning sun , and staring it full in the face ; Alfred saw the rays strike and sparkle on those glassy orbs , and fire them ; yet they never so much as winked . 
He was appalled yet fascinated by this weird sight ; could not take his eyes off it , and shuddered at it in the very water . 
With such creatures as that he must be confined , or die miserably like a mouse in a basin of water . 
Presently his foot struck something , and he found it was a large pipe that entered the tank to the distance of about a foot . 
This pipe was not more than three feet under water , and Alfred soon contrived to get upon it , and rest his fingers upon the iron edge of the tank . 
The position was painful : yet so he determined to remain till night ; and then , if possible , steal away . 
Every faculty of mind and body was strung up to defend himself against the wretches who had entrapped him . 
He had not been long in this position , when voices approached , and next the shadow of a ladder moved across the wall towards him . 
The keepers were going to search his pitiable hiding-place . 
They knew , what he did not , that there was no outlet from the premises : so now , having hunted every other corner and cranny , they came by what is called the exhaustive process of reasoning to this tank ; and , when they got near it , something in the appearance of the tree caught the gardener 's quick eye . 
Alfred quaking heard him say , `` Look here ! 
At this Alfred was conscious of a movement and a murmur , that proved humanity was not extinct ; and the ladder was fixed close to the tank , and feet came hastily up it . 
Alfred despaired . 
`` One man in his time plays many animals ; '' he caught at the words he had heard , and played the game the jackal desperate plays in India , the fox in England , the elephant in Ceylon : he feigned death ; filled his mouth with water , floated on his back paddling imperceptibly , and half closed his eyes . 
But , before the words were well uttered , Alfred , who was a practised gymnast , bounded off the ground without touching it with his hands , and fled like a deer towards the front of the house ; for he remembered the open iron gate : the attendants followed shouting , and whistle answered whistle all over the grounds . 
Alfred got safe to the iron gate : alas ! 
it had been closed at the first whistle twenty minutes ago . 
Alfred instantly steadied himself , and with his long arm caught the man in full career a left-handed blow like the kick of a pony , that laid his cheek open and knocked him stupid and staggering ; he followed it up like lightning with his right , and , throwing his whole weight into this second blow , sent the staggering man to grass ; slipped past another , and skirting the south side of the house got to the tank again well in advance of his pursuers , seized the ladder , carried it to the garden wall , and was actually half way up it , and saw the open country and liberty , when the ladder was dragged away and he fell heavily to the ground , and a keeper threw himself bodily on him . 
Alfred half expected this , and drawing up his foot in time , dashed it furiously in the coming face , actually knocking the man backwards ; another kneeled on his chest ; Alfred caught him by the throat so felly that he lost all power , and they rolled over and over together , and Alfred got clear and ran for it again , and got on the middle of the lawn , and hallooed to the house : -- `` Hy ! 
Instantly the open windows were filled with white faces , some grinning , some exulting , all greatly excited ; and a hideous uproar shook the whole place -- for the poor souls were all sane in their own opinion -- and the whole force of attendants , two of them bleeding profusely from his blows , made a cordon and approached him ; but he was too cunning to wait to be fairly surrounded ; he made his rush at an under-keeper , feinted at his head , caught him a heavy blow in the pit of the stomach , doubled him up in a moment , and off again , leaving the man on his knees vomiting and groaning . 
Poor Alfred 's cries and prayers were heard ; but no more noticed than the night howl of a wolf on some distant mountain . 
Think of it for your own sakes ; Alfred 's turn to-day , it may be yours to-morrow . 
said Alfred ; `` of what do you think I am made ? 
`` So I will , '' said Alfred , eagerly , `` and thank you on my knees besides . 
And he sat down with the plate on his knee and began to cut the meat in small pieces ; while his careless words entered Alfred 's heart , and gave him such a glimpse of sinister motives and dark acts to come as set him shuddering . 
`` Come , none o ' that , '' said the man , suspecting this shudder ; he thought it was the prologue to some desperate act ; for all a chained madman does is read upon this plan ; his terror passes for rage , his very sobs for snarls . 
`` Oh , be honest with me , '' said Alfred imploringly : `` do you think it is to steal my money the wretch has stolen my liberty ? '' 
Then Alfred coaxed him to take off the handcuffs . 
He refused , but ended by doing it ; and so left him . 
Alfred lay in this plight , and compared with anguish unspeakable his joyful anticipations of this night with the strange and cruel reality . 
my wedding night ! '' 
By-and-by he consoled himself a little with the hope that he could not long be incarcerated as a madman , being sane ; and his good wit told him his only chance was calmness . 
He would go to sleep and recover composure to bear his wrongs with dignity , and quietly baffle his enemies . 
Just as he was dropping off he felt something crawl over his face . 
Instinctively he made a violent motion to put his hands up . 
Both hands were confined , he could not move them . 
He bounded , he flung , he writhed . 
His little persecutors were quiet a moment , but the next they began again : in vain he rolled and writhed , and shuddered with loathing inexpressible . 
When he found there was no help , Alfred clenched his teeth and bore it : -- `` Bite on , ye little wretches , '' he said : `` bite on , and divert my mind from deeper stings than yours -- if you can . '' 
At daybreak the feasters on his flesh retired , and utterly worn out and exhausted he sank into a deep sleep . 
At half-past seven the head keeper and three more came in , and made him dress before them . 
They handcuffed him , and took him down to breakfast in the noisy ward ; set him down on a little bench by the wall like a naughty boy , and ordered a dangerous maniac to feed him . 
The dangerous maniac obeyed , and went and sat beside Alfred with a basin of thick gruel and a great wooden spoon . 
He shovelled the gruel down his charge 's throat mighty superciliously from the very first ; and presently , falling into some favourite and absorbing train of thought , he fixed his eye on vacancy and handed the spoonfuls over his left shoulder with such rapidity and recklessness that it was more like sowing than feeding . 
Alfred cried out , `` Quarter ! 
Something in his tone struck the maniac ; he looked at Alfred full ; Alfred looked at him in return , and smiled kindly but sadly . 
and going higher , and higher , and higher in this strain , was very soon handcuffed with Alfred 's handcuffs , and seated on Alfred 's bench and tied to two rings in the wall . 
On this his martial ardour went down to zero : `` Here is treatment , sir , '' said he piteously to Alfred . 
Alfred was now ordered to feed Jemmy ; which he did : so quickly were their parts inverted . 
Directly after breakfast Alfred demanded to see the proprietor of the asylum . 
Oh , he has not come . 
This monstrosity irritated Alfred : `` Well , then , '' said he , `` whoever it is that rules this den of thieves , when those two are out of it . '' 
In five minutes Alfred was handcuffed and flung into a padded room . 
Alfred walked up and down grinding his teeth with rage for five long hours . 
Just before dinner Brown came and took him into a parlour , where Mrs. Archbold was seated writing . 
The lady finished what she was doing , and kept Alfred standing like a schoolboy going to be lectured . 
In saying these words she was so much more kind and womanly that Alfred conceived hopes , and burst out , `` Oh , madam , you are human then ; you seem to pity me : pray give me pen and paper , and let me write to my friends to get me out of this terrible place ; do not refuse me . '' 
Mrs. Archbold resumed her distant manner without apparent effort : she said nothing , but she placed writing materials before him . 
She then left the room , and locked him in . 
He wrote a few hasty ardent words to Julia , telling her how he had been entrapped , but not a word about his sufferings -- he was too generous to give her needless pain -- and a line to Edward , imploring him to come at once with a lawyer and an honest physician , and liberate him . 
`` Oh , you do n't know my Julia , '' said Alfred ; `` she will never desert me , never think the worse of me because I have been entrapped illegally into a madhouse . '' 
`` Illegally , Mr. Hardie ! 
Alfred could not believe this , but she convinced him that it was so . 
Then he began to fear he should be imprisoned for years : he turned pale , and looked at her so piteously , that to soothe him she told him sane people were never kept in asylums now ; they only used to be . 
She then fixed her large grey eye on him and said , `` Now , if I let you dine with me and the first-class patients , will you pledge me your honour to ` be calm ; ' and not attempt to escape ? '' 
Alfred hesitated at that . 
Her eye dissected his character all the time . 
`` I promise , '' said he at last with a deep sigh . 
He emerged and walked about with Alfred , and , by-and-by , looking down from a corridor , they saw Mrs. Archbold driving the second-class women before her to dinner like a flock of animals . 
At dinner Alfred was so fortunate as to sit opposite a gentleman , who nodded and grinned at him all dinner with a horrible leer . 
He could not , however , enjoy this to the full for a little distraction at his elbow : his right hand neighbour kept forking pieces out of his plate and substituting others from his own ; there was even a tendency to gristle in the latter . 
Alfred remonstrated gently at first ; the gentleman forbore a minute , then recommenced ; Alfred laid a hand very quietly on his wrist and put it back . 
`` Oh , nothing serious , madam , '' replied Alfred : `` only this gentleman does me the honour to prefer the contents of my plate to his own . '' 
Cooper , the head keeper , pounced on the offender , seized him roughly by the collar , dragged him from the table , knocking his chair down , and bundled him out of the room with ignominy and fracas , in spite of a remonstrance from Alfred , `` Oh , do n't be so rough with the poor man . '' 
Then the novice laid down his knife and fork , and ate no more . 
`` I am grieved at my own ill nature in complaining of such a trifle , '' said he when all was quiet . 
Though Alfred was quiet as a lamb all day , the attendants returned him to the padded room at night , because he had been there last night ; but they only fastened one ankle to the bed-post : so he encountered his Lilliputians on tolerably fair terms -- numbers excepted ; they swarmed . 
Unable to sleep , he put out his hand and groped for his clothes . 
Day broke at last : and he took his breakfast quietly with the first-class patients . 
After breakfast Alfred sat in the first-class patients ' room and counted the minutes and the hours till Edward should come . 
The change was almost comically sudden to the mellow tones in which she addressed Alfred the very next moment , on the very same subject : `` Mr. Baker , I believe , sees the letters : and , where our poor patients -LRB- with a glance at Dent -RRB- write in such a way as to wound and perhaps terrify those who are in reality their best friends , they are not always sent . 
Alfred promised to be calm ; and she got him an interview with Mr. Baker . 
There are certain formulæ in these quiet retreats , which naturally impose upon greenhorns such as Alfred certainly was , and some visiting justices and lunacy commissioners would seem to be . 
Alfred demanded the doctor . ' 
Alfred found it as hard to be calm , as some people find it easy to say the words over the wrongs of others . 
The next day , but not till the afternoon , he caught the doctor : `` My letters ! 
`` You are excited , Mr. Hardie . 
All Alfred obtained by this interview was a powerful opiate . 
`` He never ordered it me , '' said Alfred . 
Then fixing his eyes sternly on Cooper , `` You miscreants , you want to poison me . 
Brown went and told Mrs. Archbold , and what Alfred had said . 
About midnight Alfred was seized with a violent headache and fever : towards morning he was lightheaded , and Brown found him loud and incoherent : only he returned often to an expression Mr. Brown had never heard before -- `` Justifiable parricide . 
After the delay inseparable from her sex she came in a morning wrapper ; and they found Alfred leaning over the bed and bleeding violently at the nose . 
They were a good deal alarmed , and tried to stop it ; but Alfred was quite sensible now , and told them it was doing him good : -- `` I can manage to see now , '' he said : `` a little while ago I was blind with the poison . '' 
They unstrapped his ankle and made him comfortable , and Mrs. Archbold sent Brown for a cup of strong coffee and a glass of brandy . 
It was dangerous to a sane man : and Alfred to the naked eye was a sane man . 
The certificates of Wycherley and Speers were the green spectacles he wore -- very green ones -- whenever he looked at Alfred Hardie . 
Perhaps in time he will forget those certificates , and , on his spectacles dropping off , he will see Alfred is sane . 
If he does , he will publish him as one of his most remarkable cures . 
The inner mind was exasperated by barefaced injustice and oppression ; above all , by his letters being stopped ; for that convinced him both Baker and Bailey , with their see-saw evasions , knew he was sane , and dreaded a visit from honest , understanding men : and the mind 's external organ , the brain , which an asylum professes to soothe , was steadily undermined by artificial sleeplessness . 
A man ca n't sleep in irons till he is used to them : and , when Alfred was relieved of these , his sleep was still driven away by biting insects and barking dogs , two opiates provided in many of these placid Retreats , with a view to the permanence , rather than the comfort , of the lodgers . 
On the eighth day Alfred succeeded at last in an object he had steadily pursued for some time : he caught the two see-saw humbugs together . 
`` Now , '' said he , `` you say he intercepts my letters ; and he says it is you who do it . 
They were staggered , and he followed up his advantage : `` Look me in the face , gentlemen , '' said he . 
The keeper came to Alfred in his room . 
This way of ordering torture , and then coolly going , irritated Alfred beyond endurance . 
Though he knew he should soon be powerless , he showed fight ; made his mark as usual on a couple of his zealous attendants ; but not having room to work in was soon overpowered , hobbled , and handcuffed : then they cut off his hair , and put a large blister on the top of his head . 
They began to respect him for this tenacity of purpose ; a decent bedroom was allotted him ; his portmanteau and bag were brought him , and he was let walk every day on the lawn with a keeper , only there were no ladders left about , and the trap-door was locked ; i.e. the iron gate . 
On one of these occasions he heard the gatekeeper whistle three times consecutively ; his attendant followed suit , and hurried Alfred into the house , which soon rang with treble signals . 
inquired Alfred . 
`` Yes , I 'll go , '' said Alfred , affecting cheerful compliance , and the man ran off . 
Alfred 's heart beat with joy inexpressible . 
He had only to keep calm , and this was his last day at Silverton Grove . 
The first thing he did was to make a careful toilet . 
Clothes wear out in an asylum , and are not always taken off , though Agriculture has long and justly claimed them for her own . 
Now Alfred had already observed that many of the patients looked madder than they were -- thanks to short trousers and petticoats , holey gloves , ear-cutting shirt-collars , frilled bosoms , shoes made for , and declined by , the very infantry ; coats short in the waist and long in the sleeves , coalscuttle bonnets , and grandmaternal caps . 
So he made his toilet with care , and put his best hat on to hide his shaven crown . 
He then kept his door ajar , and waited for a chance of speaking to the justices . 
Alfred came out , touched his hat respectfully , and begged a private interview with the magistrate . 
The old gentleman bowed politely , for Alfred 's dress , address , and countenance , left no suspicion of insanity possible in an unprejudiced mind . 
So Squire Tollett very naturally declined a private interview with Alfred ; and even drew back a step , and felt uneasy at being so near him . 
Alfred implored him not to be imposed upon . 
`` An honest man does not whisper , '' said he . 
`` Do n't excite yourself , Mr. Hardie , '' put in the doctor , parentally . 
Oh , sir , '' said he , turning to the justice , `` fear no violence from me , not even angry words ; my misery is too deep for irritation , or excitement . 
He then asked Alfred if he had any complaint to make of the food , the beds , or the attendants . 
`` Sir , '' said Alfred , `` I leave those complaints to the insane ones : with me the gigantic wrong drives out the petty worries . 
With this promise Alfred was obliged to be content . 
Meantime , Alfred had a misgiving . 
Nurse Hannah seldom came into Alfred 's part of the house ; but , when she did meet him , she generally gave him a kind look in passing ; and he had resolved to speak to her , and try if he could touch her conscience , or move her pity . 
He saw what she was at , but was too politic to detect her openly and irritate her . 
Alfred clasped his hands together . 
And run he did . 
Alfred was lucky enough to get safe into the noisy ward without being intercepted . 
And then he encountered a sunburnt gentleman , under thirty , in a riding-coat , with a hunting-whip in his hand : it was Mr. Vane , a Tory squire and large landholder in the county . 
Now , as Alfred entered at one door , Baker himself came in at the other , and they nearly met at Vane . 
But Alfred saluted him first , and begged respectfully for an interview . 
But this time Alfred overheard the formula , and said quietly : `` Do n't believe him , sir . 
`` Come , Mr. Hardie , I allow you great liberties , but you abuse them . 
You really must not monopolise his Worship with your fancies . 
Alfred 's heart sank ; he turned a look of silent agony on Mr. Vane . 
Alfred thus encouraged told his story with forced calmness , and without a word too much . 
Indeed , so clear and telling was the narrative , and the logic so close , that incoherent patients one or two stole up and listened with wonder and a certain dreamy complacency ; the bulk , however , held aloof apathetic ; being inextricably wrapped in fictitious Autobiography . 
His story told , Alfred offered the Dodds in evidence that the fourteen thousand pounds was no illusion ; and referred to his sister and several friends as witnesses to his sanity , and said the letters he wrote were all stopped in the asylum ; and why ? 
Alfred replied , `` Not on my own account , but for the sake of those afflicted persons who are here for life . 
-LRB- Alfred started ; then smiled incredulous . -RRB- 
And , sir , '' said he , getting warm , which instantly affected his pronunciation , `` if there 's a hinsect in the ouse , I 'll heat im . '' 
Alfred , whose eager eyes were never off his face , saw this with dismay , and feeling that , if he failed in the simpler matter , he should be sure to fail in establishing his sanity , he said with inward anxiety , though with outward calmness , `` Suppose we test these delusions ? '' 
`` I will , '' said Alfred ; `` please to follow me . '' 
Alfred led the way to a bedroom near his own ; and asked Mr. Baker to unlock it . 
`` That I expected , '' said Alfred . 
`` Well lied , Cooper , '' said Alfred , ironically . 
Alfred looked under the bed . 
Alfred was dumb-foundered , and a cold perspiration began to gather on his brow . 
He saw at once a false move would be fatal to him . 
Alfred caught sight of a small cupboard ; he searched it ; it was empty . 
Alfred returned to the bed and shook it . 
Cooper and Baker left off grinning ; Alfred 's quick eye caught this , and he shook the bed violently , furiously . 
Alfred tore off the bed-clothes , and then the mattress . 
Alfred improved the interval . 
`` Sir , '' said he , `` all my delusions , fairly tested , will turn out like this . '' 
They ordered all the iron body-belts , chains , leg-locks , wrist-locks , and muffs , to be put into Mr. Tollett 's carriage , and concluded a long inspection by inquiring into Alfred 's sanity : at this inquiry they did not allow Baker to be even present , but only Dr. Bailey . 
First they read the order ; and found it really was not Alfred 's father who had put him into the asylum . 
Then they read the certificates , especially Wycherley 's ; it accused Alfred of headache , insomnia , nightly visions , a rooted delusion -LRB- pecuniary -RRB- , a sudden aversion to an affectionate father ; and at the doctor 's last visit , a wild look -LRB- formula -RRB- , great excitement , and threats of violence without any provocation to justify them . 
They then sent for Mrs. Archbold , and had a long talk with her , recommending Alfred to her especial care : and , having acted on his judgment and information in the teeth of those who called him insane , turned tail at a doctor 's certificate ; distrusted their eyesight at an unsworn affidavit . 
Alfred was packing up his things to go away ; bright as a lark . 
Mrs. Archbold came to him , and told him she had orders to give him every comfort ; and the justices hoped to liberate him at their next visit . 
`` At their next visit ! '' 
The contemptible result of all his patience , self-command , and success , was too heartbreaking . 
Then he broke down altogether and burst out crying . 
`` You were born without a heart , '' he sobbed . 
`` I wish I had been , '' said she , in a strange , soft , moving voice ; then , casting an eloquent look of reproach on him , she went away in visible agitation , and left him sobbing . 
Once out of his sight she rushed into another room , and there , taking no more notice of a gentle madwoman its occupant than of the bed or the table , she sank into a chair , and , throwing her head back with womanly abandon , laid her hand upon her bosom that heaved tempestuously . 
She was almost impenetrable to mere personal beauty , and inclined to despise early youth in the other sex ; and six months spent with Alfred in a quiet country house would probably have left her reasonably indifferent to him . 
But the first day she saw him in Silverton House he broke through her guard , and pierced at once to her depths ; first he terrified her by darting through the window to escape : and terror is a passion . 
So is pity ; and never in her life had she overflowed with it as when she saw him drawn out of the tank and laid on the grass . 
If , after all , he was as sane as he looked , that brave high-spirited young creature , who preferred death to the touch of coarse confining hands ! 
No sooner had he filled her with dismay and pity , than he bounded from the ground before her eyes and fled : she screamed , and hoped he would escape ; she could not help it . 
Next she saw him fighting alone against seven or eight , and with unheard-of prowess almost beating them . 
She sat at the window panting , with clenched teeth and hands , and wished him to beat , and admired him , wondered at him . 
It thrilled her vanity . 
She glowed all over at him , and detecting herself in time was frightened . 
Mrs. Archbold 's fancy for Alfred was subjected to this dangerous treatment ; and it smouldered , and smouldered , till from a penchant it warmed to a fancy , from a fancy to a passion . 
But penchant , fancy , or passion , she hid it with such cunning and resolution , that neither Alfred nor even those of her own sex saw it ; nor did a creature even suspect it , except Nurse Hannah ; but her eyes were sharpened by jealousy , for that muscular young virgin was beginning to sigh for him herself , with a gentle timidity that contrasted prettily with her biceps muscle and prowess against her own sex . 
After a flow of tears such a woman is invincible ; she treated Alfred at tea-time with remarkable coldness and reserve . 
This piece of acting led to unlooked-for consequences : it emboldened Cooper , who was raging against Alfred for telling the justices , but had forborne from violence , for fear of getting the house into a fresh scrape . 
Armed with this weapon of destruction , Cooper entered Alfred 's bedroom at night , and ordered him to take them : he refused . 
Alfred knew he should soon be powerless ; he lost no time , sprang at Cooper , and with his long arm landed a blow that knocked him against the wall , and in this position , where his body could not give , struck him again with his whole soul , and cut his cheek right open . 
He uttered a frightful oath , and jumped on Alfred as he lay bound and powerless , and gave him a lesson he never forgot . 
Cooper then sprang furiously on Alfred , and went kneeling up and down him . 
Cooper was a heavy man , and his weight crushed and hurt the victim 's legs ; but that was a trifle ; as often as he kneeled on Alfred 's chest , the crushed one 's whole framework seemed giving way , and he could scarcely breathe . 
Cooper warmed to his work , and kneeled hard on Alfred 's face . 
Then Alfred felt his last hour was come : he writhed aside , and Cooper missed him this time and overbalanced himself ; the two faces came together for a moment , and Alfred , fighting for his life , caught Cooper with his teeth by the middle of the nose , and bit clean through the cartilage with a shrill snarl . 
Then Cooper shrieked , and writhed , and whirled his great arms like a windmill , punching at Alfred 's head . 
Alfred ground his teeth together in bull-dog silence till they quite met , and with his young strong neck and his despair shook that great hulking fellow as a terrier shakes a cat , still grinding his teeth together in bull-dog silence . 
On the bed lay Alfred all but insensible , his linen and his pale face spotted with his persecutor 's blood . 
Upon him kneeled the gory ruffian swearing oaths to set the hair on end . 
`` I 'll stop your biting for ever , '' said he , and raised a ponderous fist : and in one moment more Alfred would have been disfigured for life , but Brown caught Cooper 's arm , and Mrs. Archbold said sharply to the nurses `` Handcuffs ! '' 
Cooper , cowed in a moment by the handcuffs , began to whine and say that it was all Alfred 's fault . 
Alfred went on : `` You are putting the saddle on the wrong horse . 
said Mrs. Archbold , turning on Alfred with flashing eyes . 
Her blood once up , she was ready to quarrel even with him for taking part against himself . 
`` Because he was ordered to put on a blister , and hair must come off before a blister can go on , '' replied Alfred soberly . 
She did n't mind so much about his side ribs . 
`` No , '' replied Alfred . 
He hung his head and stepped towards Alfred : `` You 're what I call a man , '' he said . 
And Baby-face biceps at a look took off his handcuffs ; which she had been prominent in putting on . 
cried Alfred ; `` that tickles . '' 
Mrs. Archbold took off his handcuffs , and , passing her hand softly and caressingly over his head , lamented the loss of his poor hair . 
Amongst them they relieved him of his strait-jacket , set up his head , covered his feet , and he slept like a top for want of drastics and opiates , and in spite of some brilliant charges by the Lilliputian cavalry . 
After this the attendants never molested Alfred again ; nor did the doctor ; for Mrs. Archbold got his boluses , and sent them up to a famous analysing chemist in London ; and told him she had ; and said , `` I 'll thank you not to prescribe at random for that patient any more . '' 
Alfred was all the more miserable at his confinement : his melancholy deepened now there was no fighting to excite him . 
A handsome bright young face clouded with sadness is very pitiable , and I need not say that both the women who had fallen in love with him had their eyes , or at least the tails of their eyes , for ever on his face . 
That young face , ever sad , made Mrs. Archbold sigh , and long to make him happy under her wing . 
Alfred was sitting on a bench in the corridor , bowed down by grief , and the Archbold lurking in a room hard by , feasting her eyes on him through an aperture in the door caused by the inspection plate being under repair -- when an erotic maniac was driven past . 
On passing the disconsolate Alfred the latter eyed him coyly , gave her stray sheep a coarse push -- as one pushes a thing -- and laid a timid hand , gentle as falling down , upon the rougher sex . 
Alfred looked up , and met her full with his mournful honest eyes . 
`` Oh , wo n't you , though , '' cried Alfred gaily . 
Dry your tears , you dear good-hearted girl : no , I 'll dry them for you . '' 
Alfred , not aware of Mrs. Archbold 's smouldering passion , and little dreaming that jealous anguish and rage stood incarnate before him , burst out laughing like a mischievous boy ; on this she swept upon him , and took him by both shoulders , and awed him with her lowering brows close to his . 
`` She did n't , now , '' said Alfred ; `` it was I kissed her . '' 
At this insult Alfred rose pale with anger , and was about to defy his monitor mortally ; but the quickwitted woman saw and disarmed him ; in one moment , before ever he could speak , she was a transformed creature , a penitent ; she put her hands together supplicatingly , and murmured , `` I did n't mean it ; I respect her ; and your love for her : forgive me , Alfred : I am so unhappy , oh forgive me . '' 
And behold she held his hand between her soft , burning palms , and her proud head sank languidly on his shoulder , and the inevitable tears ran gently . 
`` Bother the woman , '' thought Alfred . 
But it matters to her ; for -- '' She kissed Alfred 's hand gently and rose to her feet and moved away , but at the second step turned her head sudden as a bird and finished her sentence -- `` if you kiss her before me , I shall kill her before you . '' 
The men had left off blistering , torturing , and bullying him ; but his guardian angels , the women , were turning up their sleeves to pull caps over him , and plenty of the random scratches would fall on him . 
If anything could have made him pine more to be out of the horrid place , this voluptuous prospect would . 
But he was away the day with a patient . 
At night he lay awake for a long time , thinking how he should open the negotiation : he shrank from it . 
He felt a delicacy about bribing Beelzebub 's servant to betray him . 
As Hannah had originated the idea , he thought he might very well ask her to do the dirty work of bribing Brown , and he would pay her for it ; only in money , not kisses . 
Impartial sleep flies at the steps of the scaffold and the gate of Elysium : so Alfred awoke at the above . 
But doubted whether he was quite awake ; for two lips were touching his . 
He stirred , and somebody was gone like the wind , with a rustle of flying petticoats , and his door shut in a moment ; it closed with a catch-lock ; his dastardly assailant had opened it with her key , and left it open to make good her retreat if he should awake while she was stealing what she came after . 
Alfred sat up in bed indignant , and somewhat fluttered . 
`` Confound her impudence , '' said he . 
But there was no help for it ; he grinned and bore it , as he had the blisters , and boluses , & c. , rolled the clothes round his shoulders , and off to the sleep of the just again . 
In the morning , Alfred remembered this substantial vision , and determined to find out which of those two it was . 
`` I shall know by her looks , '' said he ; `` she wo n't be able to meet my eye . '' 
Well , the first he saw was Mrs. Archbold . 
She met his eye full with a mild and pensive dignity . 
`` Come , it is not you , '' thought Alfred . 
Presently he fell in with Hannah . 
Alfred was dumbfoundered . 
`` It 's not this one , either , '' said he . 
However , he did not speak to her ; he was looking out for a face that interested him far more : the weather-beaten countenance of Giles Brown . 
Alfred laughed . 
Alfred stared with amazement . 
said Alfred cordially . 
Can I help the fools from spooning upon me ? '' 
Alfred 's was to make one this very night . 
Alfred did n't know what to say : he could not tell him why he felt sure she had a key . 
`` Just go quietly and ask her for it , '' said he : `` do n't tell her I sent you , now . '' 
Alfred coloured up . 
It was agreed that Alfred should lie down at night in his clothes , ready to seize the right moment ; that Hannah should get the key , and watch the coast clear , and let him out into the corridor ; and Brown get him down by a back stairs , and out on the lawn . 
And now Alfred was a changed creature : his eye sparkled ; he walked on air , and already sniffed the air of liberty . 
After tea Brown brought in some newspapers , and made Alfred a signal , previously agreed on , that the ladder was under the east wall . 
He went to bed early , put on his tweed shooting-jacket and trousers , and lay listening to the clock with beating heart . 
The time was not ripe to use it , but good Hannah had taken this way to let him know she had got it . 
This little scratch outside his door , oh it made his heart leap and thrill . 
One great difficulty was overcome . 
`` Take your shoes in your hand , '' she whispered , `` and follow me . '' 
She led him in and out , to the door of the public room belonging to the second class patients . 
said Alfred , with deep emotion . 
He was welcome to Alfred though , most welcome , and conducted him by devious ways to the kitchen , lantern in hand . 
He opened the kitchen door softly , and saw two burly strangers seated at a table , eating with all their souls , and Mrs. Archbold standing before the fire , but looking towards him : for she had heard his footsteps ever so far off . 
The men looked up , and saw Alfred . 
Could any one have known what was passing in different places , he would have counted Alfred 's deliverance a certainty ; for Sampson 's placard was on Barkington walls , and inside the asylum Alfred was softening hearts and buying consciences , as related ; so , in fact , he had two strings to his bow . 
But mark how strangely things turn ; these two strings got entangled , and spoilt all . 
His father , alarmed by the placard , called at the pawnbroker 's shop , and told him he must move Alfred directly to a London asylum . 
Baker raised objections ; Mr. Hardie crushed them with his purse , i.e. with his son 's and victim 's sweetheart 's father 's money : so then , as Baker after all could not resist the project , but only postpone it for a day or two , he preferred to take a handsome present , and co-operate ; he even connived at Mr. Hardie 's signing the requisite name to the new order . 
On the very night then of Alfred 's projected escape , two keepers came down from Dr. Wycherley 's asylum to Silverton station : Baker met them , and drove them to Silverton House in his dog-cart . 
They were to take Alfred up by the night train ; and , when he came into the kitchen with Brown , they suspected nothing , nor did Baker or Cooper , who presently emerged from the back kitchen . 
Baker assented ; and soon after went out to get the horse harnessed : on this Mrs. Archbold , pale , sorrowful , and silent hitherto , beckoned Alfred into the back kitchen , and there gave him his watch and his loose money . 
Put the money in your shoes ; it may be useful to you . '' 
He thanked her somewhat sullenly ; for his disappointment was so deep and bitter that small kindnesses almost irritated him . 
Oh , Alfred , for mercy 's sake whisper me one kind word at parting ; give me one kind look to remember and dote upon . '' 
She put out both hands as eloquently as she spoke , and overpowered his prudence so far that he took her offered hands -- they were as cold now as they were burning hot the last time -- and pressed them , and said , `` I shall be grateful to you while I live . '' 
Love me , or hate me . '' 
asked the pawnbroker , on his return . 
On this he was handcuffed , and helped into the dog-cart . 
They went up to town by the midnight train ; but , to Alfred 's astonishment and delight , did not take a carriage to themselves . 
At last they stopped at a larger station , and a good many people were on the platform : Alfred took this opportunity and appealed in gentle but moving terms to the first good and intelligent face he saw . 
`` Sir , '' said he , `` I implore your assistance . '' 
The gentleman turned courteously to him . 
The keepers , to Alfred 's surprise , did not interrupt . 
`` Do n't look at them , sir , '' cried Alfred ; `` they are signed by men who were bribed to sign them . 
`` I could not take on me to interfere , '' said he . 
The unsworn affidavits had overpowered his senses . 
Alfred wrung his handcuffed hands , and the connecting chain rattled . 
The men never complained : his conduct was natural ; and they knew their strength . 
At the next station he tested a snob 's humanity instead of a gentleman 's . 
Being called mad was pretty much the same thing as being mad to a mind of this class : and Alfred had admitted he was called mad . 
At the next station he implored a silvery haired old gentleman . 
Old age , he had heard , has known griefs , and learned pity . 
Nor could Alfred 's entreaties and appeals to common sense attract a word or even a look from him . 
Alfred cried `` Help ! 
This soon drew a crowd round him , listening to his fiery tale of wrong , and crying `` Shame , shame ! 
How could he ever get free ? 
Between his mind and that of his fellows there lay a spiritual barrier more impassable than the walls of fortified cities . 
Yet , at the very next station , with characteristic tenacity of purpose , he tried again ; for he saw a woman standing near , a buxom country woman of forty . 
Then he remembered that the Naked Eye was not yet an extinct institution among her sex . 
He told her his tale , and implored her to use her own eyes . 
She seemed struck , and did eye him far more closely than the men had ; and told the keepers they ought to be ashamed of themselves ; he was no madman , for she had seen madmen . '' 
The keeper whipped off Alfred 's cap and showed his shaven crown . 
And after that all he could say only drew the dew of patient pity to her eyes . 
Alfred lost heart . 
He felt how impotent he was . 
`` I shall die in a madhouse , '' he said . 
Alfred was shown into a nice clean bedroom , and asked whether he would like to bathe or sleep . 
`` Oh , a bath , '' he said ; and was allowed to bathe himself . 
Alfred turned in the water . 
`` Oh , never mind that ; we are all sane here -- except the governor and I. '' He whipped out , and entered the condition of the new patient 's body with jealous minuteness in the case-book . 
As for his mind , he made no inquiry into that ; indeed he was little qualified for researches of the kind . 
At breakfast Alfred sat with a number of mad ladies and gentlemen , who by firmness , kindness , and routine , had been led into excellent habits : the linen was clean and the food good . 
He made an excellent meal , and set about escaping ; with this view he explored the place . 
Nobody interfered with him ; but plenty of eyes watched him . 
The house was on the non-restraint system . 
He soon found that this system was as bad for him as it was good for the insane . 
It was next to impossible to get into the yard at night ; and then it looked quite impossible to get any further , for the house was encompassed by high walls . 
He resigned all hope of escape without connivance . 
Alfred coloured to the eyes ; and sighed deeply . 
To have honour thrown in his face , and made the reason for not aiding him to baffle a dishonourable conspiracy ! 
But he took the reproof so sweetly , the man was touched , and by-and-by , seeing him deeply dejected , said good naturedly , `` Do n't be down on your luck , sir . 
cried Alfred impetuously . 
said Alfred : `` would n't you be excited at the hope of getting out of prison ? '' 
Alfred got paper and sketched the letter on which so much depended . 
It took him six hours . 
He tore up two ; he cooled down the third , and condensed it severely : by this means , after much thought , he produced a close and telling composition : he also weeded it of every trait and every term he had observed in mad people 's talk , or the letters they had shown him . 
A simple , honest , earnest story , with bitter truth stamped on every line ; a sober , strong appeal from a sore heart but hard head to the arbiters of his fate . 
Mr. Hardie found his daughter lying ashy pale on a little bed in the drawing-room of Albion Villa . 
That vivid young face , full of foreboding and woe , struck Mr. Hardie the moment he entered , and froze his very heart : the strong man quivered and sank slowly like a felled tree by the bedside ; and his face and the poor girl 's , whose earthly happiness he had coldly destroyed , nearly met over his crushed daughter . 
`` Jane , my child , '' he gasped ; `` my poor little Jane ! '' 
said she , turning rather to Julia than to him . 
Mr. Hardie asked the doctor in an agitated whisper if he might move her home . 
At these terrible words Mr. Hardie groaned : and they all began to speak below the breath . 
`` You are kinder to me than I deserve , '' muttered Mr. Hardie humbly , quite cowed by the blow that had fallen on him . 
Mr. Hardie begged to see the extent of the injury . 
Mrs. Dodd dissuaded him ; but he persisted . 
She smiled at sight of Mr. Hardie , and said , `` Papa ! 
There was great joy : silent on the part of Mrs. Dodd and Julia ; but Mr. Hardie , who saw in this a good omen , Heaven recognising his penitence , burst out : `` She knows me ; she speaks ; she will live . 
Jane did not seem to pay much heed to these words ; she looked straight before her like one occupied with her own thought , and said distinctly and solemnly , `` Papa -- send for Alfred . '' 
Mr. Hardie was the one to speak . 
`` Why for him , dear ? 
Mr. Hardie was sore perplexed . 
He recoiled from the sudden exposure that might take place , if Alfred without any preparation or previous conciliatory measures were allowed to burst in upon them . 
And while his mind was whirling within him in doubt and perplexity , Jane spoke again ; but no longer calmly and connectedly : she was beginning to wander . 
He sighed like one overmatched by fate ; but said , `` You shall have him , my darling ; he is a good young man , he shall be your husband ; you shall be happy . 
Mr. Hardie gave it her . 
She sipped , and he took it from her . 
She looked at him close , and said distinctly , `` Have you sent for Alfred ? '' 
Mr. Hardie trembled . 
Then , being alone with her , the miserable man unable to say no , unwilling to say yes , tried to persuade her not to ask for Alfred . 
`` My dear , '' he whispered , `` I will not refuse you : but I have a secret to confide to you . 
`` Poor Alfred is not himself . 
He has delusions ; he is partly insane . 
Alfred insane ! 
It is a falsehood . 
`` I feared to frighten you , '' said Mr. Hardie , and hung his head . 
`` Oh , my child , do n't talk so , '' cried Mr. Hardie , trembling . 
You shall have Alfred , you shall have anything you like on earth , anything that money can get you . 
Oh , madam , you are good , kind , forgiving ; keep my poor girl alive for me : keep telling her Alfred is coming ; she cares more for him than for her poor heartbroken father . '' 
Then Mrs. Dodd knew she had overheard Mr. Hardie 's last words . 
Mr. Hardie , rushing from the house , found Edward at work outside ; he was crying undisguisedly , and with his coat off working harder at spreading the straw than both the two men together he had got to help him . 
Mr. Hardie took his hand and wrung it , but could not speak . 
Mr. Hardie blessed her ; it seemed the face of an angel , so earnest , so lovely , so pious . 
He went home : and at the door of his own house Peggy met him with anxious looks . 
He told her what he had done . 
Leave me , Peggy ; there , go ; go . '' 
He was no sooner alone than he fell upon his knees , and offered the Great Author of life and death -- a bargain . 
`` Oh God , '' he cried , `` I own my sins , and I repent them . 
And now the whistle sounded , the train moved , and his messenger was flying fast to London , with a note to Dr. Wycherley : `` Dear Sir , -- My poor daughter lies dangerously wounded , and perhaps at the point of death . 
A bed was prepared in the house for Mr. Hardie : but neither he nor any of the Dodds closed an eye that sorrowful night . 
`` Take my advice , dear ; be reconciled with Alfred at once , and let Julia be your daughter , since I am leaving you . 
At ten in the morning Mr. Hardie 's messenger returned without Alfred , and with a note from Dr. Wycherley to this effect , that , the order for Alfred 's admission into his asylum being signed by Mr. Thomas Hardie , he could not send him out even for a day except on Thomas Hardie 's authority ; it would be a violation of the law . 
If then Mr. Hardie would telegraph Thomas Hardie in Yorkshire to telegraph him -LRB- Wycherley -RRB- , Alfred should be sent with two keepers wherever Mr. T. Hardie should so direct . 
Now Mr. Hardie had already repented of sending for Alfred at all . 
So , instead of telegraphing Yorkshire , he remained passive , and said sullenly to Mrs. Dodd , `` Alfred ca n't come , it seems . '' 
Thus Routine kept the brother from his dying sister . 
They told Jane , with aching hearts , there was reason to fear Alfred could not arrive that day . 
He loathed Alfred , calling him the cause of all . 
When Mr. Hardie said , `` Alfred ca n't come , it seems , '' Mrs. Dodd misunderstood him , naturally enough . 
And as , after all , they knew little to Mr. Hardie 's disadvantage , except what had come out of `` the Wretch 's '' mouth , and as moreover their hearts were softened towards the father by his bereavement , and their sight of his misery , and also by his grateful words , they quite acquitted him of having robbed them , and felt sure the fourteen thousand pounds was at the bottom of the sea . 
They were a little surprised that Mr. Hardie never spoke nor wrote to them again ; but being high minded and sweet tempered , they set it down to all-absorbing grief , and would not feel sore about it . 
At this latter place he found Hardie and Talboys both courting Lucy ; this drove him mad , and in his fury he popped . 
Lucy declined him secundum artem : he went away blessing her , with a manly sob or two . 
Lucy cried a little and took a feminine spite against his rivals , who remained to pester her . 
And from the first he marked his sense of Alfred 's conduct by showing her a profound and chivalrous respect , which he did not bestow on other young ladies in his parish ; on the contrary , he rather received homage from them than bestowed it . 
Alfred , luckier than many , had twice nearly escaped : yet now he was tighter in than ever . 
His father at first meant to give him but a year or two of it , and let him out on terms , his spirit broken , and Julia married . 
But his sister 's death was fatal to him . 
The Commissioners of Lunacy had power to liberate Alfred in spite of his relations . 
And that power , you know , he had soberly but earnestly implored them to exercise . 
After a delay that seemed as strange to him as postponing a hand to a drowning man , he received an official letter from Whitehall . 
`` I am , & c. '' Alfred was bitterly disappointed at the small advance he had made . 
However , it was a great point to learn that his letters were allowed to go to the Commissioners at all , and would be attended to by degrees . 
He waited and waited , and struggled hard to possess his soul in patience ; at times his brain throbbed and his blood boiled , and he longed to kill the remorseless , kindless monsters who robbed him of his liberty , his rights as a man , and his Julia : but he knew this would not do ; that what they wanted was to gnaw his reason away , and then who could disprove that he had always been mad ? 
Now he felt that brooding on his wrong would infuriate him ; so he clenched his teeth , and vowed a solemn vow that nothing should drive him mad . 
By advice of a patient he wrote again to the Commissioners begging for a special Commission to inquire into his case ; and , this done , with rare stoicism , self-defence , and wisdom in one so young , he actually sat down to read hard for his first class . 
Now , to do this , he wanted the Ethics , Politics , and Rhetoric of Aristotle , certain Dialogues of Plato , the Comedies of Aristophanes , the first class Historians , Demosthenes , Lucretius , a Greek Testament , Wheeler 's Analysis , Prideaux , Horne , and several books of reference sacred and profane . 
This remark puzzled Alfred , and set him thinking ; it bore a subtle family resemblance to the observations he heard every day from the patients ; it was so one-eyed . 
Soon Alfred became the doctor 's pet maniac . 
In fact , they got so thick that Alfred thought it only fair to say one day , `` Mind , doctor , all these pleasant fruitful hours we spend together so sweetly will not prevent my indicting you for a conspiracy as soon as I get out : it will rob the retribution of half its relish though . '' 
Alfred ventured to inquire whether this was not rather paradoxical . 
After a momentary greeting they continued the conversation with Dr. Wycherley , and scarcely noticed Alfred . 
Alfred 's blood boiled , but he knew it must not boil over . 
`` The more the better , sir , '' said Alfred . 
Dr. Eskell then asked him to describe minutely , and in order , all he had done since seven o'clock that day . 
And he did it . 
Examined him in the multiplication table . 
And he did it . 
And , while he was applying these old-fashioned tests , Wycherley 's face wore an expression of pity , that was truly comical . 
Now this Dr. Eskell had an itch for the classics : so he went on to say , `` You have been a scholar , I hear . '' 
`` I am not old enough to be a scholar , sir , '' said Alfred ; `` but I am a student . '' 
`` Well , I 'll try , '' said Alfred , sneering secretly `` Let me see : Mum -- mum -- mum -- populumque potentem , In sua victrici conversum viscera dextrâ . '' 
Alfred , who was playing with his examiner all this time , pretended to cudgel his brains , then went on , and warmed involuntarily with the lines : `` Cognatasque acies et rupto foedere regni Certatum totis concussi viribus orbis In commune nefas ; infestis que obvia signis Signa , pares aquilas , et pila minantia pilis . '' 
`` No , sir , '' said Alfred . 
Alfred took this hint , and said artfully , `` Mine was a thoughtless remark ; of course a gentleman of your experience can test the mind on any subject however trivial . '' 
`` Well , Mr. Hardie , '' said Dr. Eskell , rather feebly , `` let me tell you those passages which so shock your peculiar notions , are among the most applauded . '' 
Alfred was horribly frightened : this was the very dodge that had ruined him at Silverton House . 
`` Oh no , gentlemen , '' he cried , imploringly . 
`` Now you talk sense , '' said Mr. Abbott ; as if the previous topics had been chosen by Alfred . 
`` It excites the insane , but not the sane , '' said Alfred . 
Mr. Abbott noted the address in his book , and Alfred , mightily cheered and encouraged by this sensible act , went on to describe the various indications , which , insufficient singly , had by their united force driven him to his conclusion . 
When he described David 's appearance and words on his father 's lawn at night , Wycherley interrupted him quietly : `` Are you quite sure this was not a vision , a phantom of the mind heated by your agitation , and your suspicions ? '' 
inquired Alfred , slily . 
`` Oh , thank you , sir , '' cried Alfred with emotion . 
`` No , no , sir , '' said Alfred warmly . 
`` In short , '' continued Alfred , `` to be happy in his house all a man wants is to be insane . 
They then civilly dismissed him ; and on his departure asked Dr. Wycherley his candid opinion . 
Dr. Wycherley said he was now nearly cured ; his ability to discuss his delusion without excitement was of itself a proof of that . 
But in another month he would be better still . 
It was a bright day for Alfred : he saw he had made an excellent impression on the Commissioners , and , as luck does not always come single , after many vain attempts to get a letter posted to Julia , he found this very afternoon a nurse was going away next day . 
At this , Alfred was much agitated . 
She was alive , and perhaps near him . 
At this magnificent project Alfred 's countenance fell , and he stared with astonishment . 
Alfred sighed . 
The Commissioners , to keep up his heart , promised to send him copies of their correspondence with the person who had signed the order . 
From what he had heard , it would be premature to discharge Alfred . 
Alfred to Board warning them against this proposal . 
Alfred to the Board begging that Dr. Sampson , an honest independent physician , might be allowed to visit him and report to them . 
The Board to Alfred declining this for the present as unadvisable , they being in correspondence with the person who had signed the order -- with a view to his liberation . 
Alfred Hardie asking permission to be visited by a solicitor with a view to protection of his liberty and property . 
The Board declining this , pending their correspondence with other parties ; but asking him for the names and addresses of all his trustees . 
Thomas Hardie informing the Board he had now learned Alfred had threatened to kill his father as soon as ever he should get out , and leaving the Board to discharge him on their own responsibility if they chose after this warning : but declining peremptorily to do so himself . 
The Board , by advice of Mr. Abbott , to Alfred 's trustees , warning them against any alienation of Alfred 's money , under the notion that he was legally a lunatic ; and saying that a public Inquiry appeared inevitable , owing to Mr. T. Hardie 's unwillingness to enter into their views . 
To Alfred , inquiring whether he wished to encounter the expense of Chancery proceedings to establish his sanity ? 
Alfred to the Board , imploring them to use their powers and discharge him without further delay , and assuring them he meditated no violence on his liberation , but should proceed against all parties under legal advice . 
The Board to T. Hardie , warning him that he must in future pay Alfred 's maintenance in Asylum out of his own pocket , and pressing him either to discharge the young man , or else to apply to the Lord Chancellor for a Commission de Lunatico Inquirendo , and enclosing copy of a letter from Wycherley saying the patient was harmless . 
He concluded by promising to come to town and visit Alfred with his family physician , and write further in a week . 
The correspondence had already occupied three months , and kept Alfred in a fever of the mind ; of all the maddening things with which he had been harassed by the pretended curers of insanity , this tried him hardest . 
A Briton can thirst for liberty as hard as Tantalus or hunted deer can thirst for cooling springs : and this soul-gnawing correspondence brought liberty , and citizenhood , and love , and happiness , to the lips of Alfred 's burning , pining , aching heart , again , and again , and again ; then carried them away from him in mockery . 
But indeed his hopes began to sicken for good when he found that the Board would not allow any honest independent physician to visit him , or any solicitor to see him . 
At first , indeed , they refused it because Mr. Thomas Hardie was going to let him out : but when T. Hardie would not move at their request , then , on a fresh application , they refused it , giving as their reason that they had already refused it . 
Alfred Hardie , and one or two more contemporaries , had suffered by this humour of the good doctor 's . 
Nor did the dead escape him entirely . 
But Alfred declined the subject as too puerile . 
But , when he found that Dr. Wycherley , had he lived in Denmark at the time , would have conferred cannily with Hamlet 's uncle , removed that worthy relative 's disbelief in Hamlet 's insanity , and signed the young gentleman away behind his back into a lunatic asylum , Alfred began to sympathise with this posthumous victim of Psychological Science . 
`` I believe the bloke was no madder than I am , '' said he . 
He got the play , studied it afresh , compared the fiction with the legend , compared Hamlet humbugging his enemies and their tool , Ophelia , with Hamlet opening his real mind to himself or his Horatio the very next moment ; contrasted the real madness the author has portrayed in the plays of Hamlet and Lear by the side of these extravagant imitations , to save , if possible , even dunces , and dreamers , and criticasters from being taken in by the latter ; and at their next séance pitched into the doctor 's pet chimera , and what with logic , fact , ridicule , and the author 's lines , knocked it to atoms double quick . 
Now , in their midnight discussions , Dr. Wycherley had always handled the question of Alfred Hardie 's Sanity or Insanity with a philosophical coolness the young man admired , and found it hard to emulate ; but this philosophic calmness deserted him the moment Hamlet 's insanity was disputed , and the harder he was pressed , the redder , the angrier , the louder , the more confused the Psychological physician became ; and presently he got furious , and burst out of the anti-spasmodic or round-about style , and called Alfred a d -- d ungrateful , insolent puppy , and went stamping about the room ; and , finally , to the young man 's horror , fell down in a fit of an epileptic character , grinding his teeth and foaming at the mouth . 
Alfred was filled with regret , and , though alarmed , had the presence of mind not to call for assistance . 
Alfred got it him , and the doctor , with a mixture of cunning and alarm in his eye , said he had fainted away , or nearly . 
Alfred assented coaxingly , and looked sheepish . 
After this he took care never to libel Hamlet 's intellect again by denying his insanity ; for he was now convinced of what he had long half suspected , that the doctor had a bee in his own bonnet ; and Alfred had studied true insanity all this time , and knew how inhumane it is to oppose a monomaniac 's foible ; it only infuriates and worries him . 
No power can convince him . 
But now he resolved to play on the doctor 's foible . 
It went against his conscience ; but the temptation was so strong . 
He came to him with a hang-dog air : `` Doctor , '' said he , `` I have been thinking over your arguments , and I capitulate . 
And he blushed at this his first quibble . 
Alfred hung his head , and looked guiltier and guiltier . 
`` Why , '' said he , `` that never amounted to anything more than a strong suspicion . 
This he delivered with an admirable appearance of indifference . 
Alfred was a little disappointed at this piece of news ; but recovering himself , asked him to certify that , and let him send the certificate to the Board . 
Dr. Wycherley said he would with pleasure . 
`` I 'll bring it to you when I make my round , '' said he . 
Alfred retired triumphant , and went in at Plato with a good heart . 
In about an hour Dr. Wycherley paid him the promised visit . 
But what may not an hour bring forth ? 
He came with mortification and regret in his face to tell Alfred that an order of transfer had been signed by the proper parties , and countersigned by two Commissioners , and he was to go to Dr. Wolf 's asylum that day . 
Alfred groaned . 
`` I knew my father would outwit my feeble friends somehow or other , '' said he . 
`` My dear friend , '' said Alfred , `` will you do me a favour ? '' 
Dr. Wycherley looked at it , and said it was innocent , being unintelligible : and he would insert it himself . 
`` Three insertions , dear doctor , '' said Alfred . 
The doctor then told him sorrowfully he must pack up his things . 
Dr. Wolf 's keepers were waiting for him . 
Then Alfred solemnly forgave Dr. Wycherley for signing away his wits , and thanked him for all his kindness and humanity . 
`` We shall never meet again , I fear , '' said he ; `` I feel a weight of foreboding here about my heart I never felt before ; yet my trials have been many and great . 
Dr. Wolf 's eye fell under Alfred 's , and the latter felt he was capable of much foul play . 
He was one of the old bull-necked breed ; and contained the bull-dog and the spaniel in his single nature . 
`` I hope you will be comfortable here , sir , '' said he , doggedly . 
Alfred assented by a bow . 
Dr. Wolf rang a bell , and told a servant to show Mr. Hardie his room . 
He had just time to make his toilet when the bell rang for dinner . 
As he went down a nurse met him , held up something white to him as she came , lowered it quickly , and dropped it at his feet in passing . 
It was twisted into a pretty shape , scented , and addressed to Mr. Hardie , in a delicate Italian hand , and in that pale ink which seems to reflect the charming timidity of the fair who use it . 
These words in that delicate Italian hand sent a chill through Alfred . 
Was he to be poisoned ? 
Was his life aimed at now instead of his reason ? 
What was this mysterious drama prepared for him the very moment he set his foot in the place , perhaps before ? 
Alfred took his ring off his finger , and holding the glass up dropped his ring in . 
And he filled it with water from a caraffe . 
In the evening Alfred came dressed into the drawing-room , and found several gentlemen and ladies there . 
One of the ladies seemed to attract the lion 's share of male homage . 
Her back was turned to Alfred ; but it was a beautiful back , with great magnificent neck and shoulders , and a skin like satin ; she was tall but rounded and symmetrical , had a massive but long and shapely white arm , and perfect hand : and masses of thick black hair sat on her grand white poll like a raven on a marble pillar . 
It was not easy to get near her ; for the mad gentlemen were fawning on her all round ; like Queen Elizabeth 's courtiers . 
However , Dr. Wolf , seeing Alfred standing alone , said , `` Let me introduce you , '' and took him round to her . 
The lady turned her stately head , and her dark eyes ran lightly all over Alfred in a moment . 
`` Mr. Hardie -- Mrs. Archbold . '' 
On Alfred 's leaving Silverton , Mrs. Archbold was prostrated . 
She was politely but peremptorily refused . 
At this stage of her convalescence Dr. Wolf told her in an off-hand way that Mr. Hardie , a patient of doubtful insanity , was coming to his asylum , to be kept there by hook or by crook . 
`` Better for me never to see him again , '' she thought . 
`` His power over me is too terrible . 
Ah , good-bye to the peace and comfort I have been building up ! 
He will scatter them to the winds . 
And , while she was so struggling , Wolf let out that Alfred was to have morphia at dinner the first day ; morphia , the accursed drug with which these dark men in these dark places coax the reason away out of the head by degrees , or with a potent dose stupify the victim , then act surprise , alarm ; and make his stupor the ground for applying medical treatment to the doomed wretch . 
She smiled in Dr. Wolf 's face , and hated him ; and secretly girt herself up to baffle him , and protect Alfred 's reason , and win his heart through his gratitude . 
She received him as I have related , to throw dust in Dr. Wolf 's eyes : but she acted so admirably that some went into Alfred 's . 
`` Ah , '' thought he , `` she is angry with herself for her amorous folly ; and , with the justice of her sex , she means to spite poor me for it . '' 
He sighed ; for he felt her hostility would be fatal to him . 
To give her no fresh offence , he fell into her manner , and treated her with a world of distant respect . 
Then again , who else but she could have warned him against poison ? 
Then again , if so , why look so cold and stern at him ? 
Alfred treated Mrs. Archbold with a distant respect that tried her hard . 
At last he gave her an opportunity , and it will be seen whether she took it . 
Mrs. Archbold smiled encouragingly on him , and said softly , `` I am the same I always was -- to you Alfred . '' 
She came , and being questioned told Mrs. Archbold more than she had Alfred . 
Alfred was walking about in a fury , and Nurse Eliza , in making this last revolting communication , lowered her voice for him not to hear ; but his senses were quick . 
I think he heard , for he turned and came quickly to them . 
`` There , '' said Alfred , `` let that teach you men will not own hyænas in petticoats for women . '' 
Poor Alfred took all the credit of this performance ; but in fact , when the Archbold invited him to bear a hand , he showed the white feather . 
`` I wo n't touch the blackguardesses , '' said he , haughtily turning it off on the score of contempt . 
She was retiring with a tender look at Alfred , and her pulse secretly unaccelerated by sheep-washing of she-wolves , when her grateful favourite appealed to her again : `` Dear Mrs. Archbold , shall we punish and not comfort ? 
The Archbold could have boxed his ears . 
`` Now , Alfred , '' said Mrs. Archbold , `` I ca n't be everywhere , or know everything ; so you come to me when anything grieves you ; and let me be the agent of your humanity . '' 
Besides Alfred , there were two patients in Drayton House who had never been insane ; a young man , and an old woman ; of whom anon . 
The gentleman 's case was scarce credible in the nineteenth century : years ago , being undeniably cracked , he had done what Dr. Wycherley told Alfred was a sure sign of sanity ; i.e. he had declared himself insane : and had even been so reasonable as to sign his own order and certificates , and so imprison himself illegally , but with perfect ease ; no remonstrance against that illegality from the guardians of the law ! 
When he got what plain men call sane , he naturally wanted to be free , and happening to remember he alone had signed the order of imprisonment , and the imaginary doctor 's certificates , he claimed his discharge from illegal confinement . 
On this he signed an order for his discharge . 
All that Alfred could do for these victims was to promise to try and get them out some day , D.V. . 
Alfred soon found him out , and , to everybody 's amazement , especially Frank 's , remonstrated gently but resolutely and eloquently , and soon convinced the majority , sane and insane , that a creature so meek and useful merited especial kindness , not cruelty . 
`` Well , '' said Alfred , `` lay a finger on him after this , and I 'll lay a hand on you , and aid your intellectual vision . '' 
But one day , as Alfred was sitting with his door ajar , writing a letter of earnest expostulation to the Commissioners , who had left his first unanswered , he heard Hayes at the head of the stairs call roughly `` Frank ! 
And with that lent him a contemptuous kick behind , which owing to his position sent him off his balance flat on the tray ; a glass broke under him ; poor young Mr. Beverley uttered a cry of dismay , for he knew Hayes would not own himself the cause ; Hayes cursed him for an awkward idiot , and the oath went off into a howl , for Alfred ran out at him brimful of Moses , and with a savage kick in the back and blow on the neck administered simultaneously hurled him headforemost down the stairs . 
Alighting on the seventh step , he turned a somersault , and bounded like a ball on to the landing below , and there lay stupified . 
He picked himself up by slow degrees , and glared round with speechless awe and amazement up at the human thunderbolt , that had shot out on him and sent him flying like a feather . 
He shook his fist , and limped silently away all bruises and curses , to tell Rooke and concert vengeance . 
Alfred , trembling still with ire , took Beverley to his room -LRB- the boy was as white as a sheet -RRB- , and encouraged him , and made him wash properly , brushed his hair , dressed him in a decent tweed suit he had outgrown , and taking him under his arm , and walking with his own nose haughtily in the air , paraded him up and down the asylum , to show them all the best man in the house respected the poor soft gentleman . 
Beverley clung to his protector too much like a girl , but walked gracefully and kept step , and every now and then looked up at Alfred with a loving adoration , that was sweet yet sad to see . 
Alfred marched him to Mrs. Archbold , and told his tale ; for he knew Hayes would misrepresent it , and get him into trouble . 
`` Is n't he , '' said Alfred eagerly . 
`` Not yours , Alfred , nor mine , '' was the honeyed reply . 
These and many other good deeds did Alfred Hardie in Drayton House . 
But , as the days rolled on , and no answer came from the Commissioners , his own anxiety , grief , and dismay , left him less and less able to sympathise with the material but smaller wrongs around him . 
At last he came to Mrs. Archbold , and said sternly his letters to the Commissioners were intercepted . 
`` I am sure of it , '' said he ; `` and may the eternal curse of Heaven light on the cowardly traitor and miscreant who has done it . '' 
And he stalked gloomily away . 
When he left her , she sighed at this imprecation from his lips ; but did not repent . 
By-and-by , when she saw him getting thinner and paler , and his bright face downcast and inexpressibly sad , she shared his misery ; ay , shed scalding tears for him ; yet could not give him up ; for her will was as strong as the rest of her was supple : and hers was hot love , but not true love like Julia 's . 
While Alfred 's visible misery pulled at her heart-strings , and sometimes irritated , sometimes melted her , came curious complications ; one of which requires preface . 
One day Alfred found himself locked into his room . 
This was unusual : for , though they called him a lunatic in words , they called him sane by all their acts . 
Had he known who really was in the house , he would have beaten himself to pieces against the door . 
Alfred was very much struck with this eye , and contrived to say a kind word to him after dinner . 
However , Alfred contrived to extract from him that he was rather glad to leave his last ship , on account of having been constantly impeded there in his duties by a set of lubbers , that clung round him and kept him on deck whenever the first lieutenant ordered him into the top . 
The very next day , pacing sadly the dull gravel of his prison yard , Alfred heard a row ; and there was the able seaman struggling with the Robin and two other keepers : he wanted to go to his duties in the foretop : to wit the fork of a high elm-tree in the court-yard . 
Alfred had half a mind not to interfere . 
`` Who cares for my misery ? '' 
But his better nature prevailed , and he told the Robin he was sure going up imaginary rigging would do Thompson more good than harm . 
Still Alfred quaked when he crossed his thighs tight over a limb of the tree forty feet from earth , and went carefully and minutely through the whole process of furling imaginary sails . 
However , he came down manifestly soothed by the performance , and , singular phenomenon , he was quite cool ; and it was the spectators on deck who perspired . 
`` And what a pleasant voice he has , '' said Alfred ; `` it quite charms my ear : it is not like a mad voice . 
At night Alfred dreamed he heard Julia 's sweet , mellow voice speaking to him ; and he looked , and lo ! 
Ere the able seaman had been there three days , Mrs. Dodd came unexpectedly to see him : and it was with the utmost difficulty Alfred was smuggled out of the way . 
Mrs. Archbold saw by her loving anxiety these visits would be frequent , and unless Alfred was kept constantly locked up , which was repugnant to her , they would meet some day . 
And then the sight of Alfred 's misery tried her patience , and then he was beginning half to suspect her of stopping his letters . 
One fine Sunday afternoon then she asked Alfred languidly would he like to walk in the country . 
Ah , do n't trifle with a prisoner , '' said he sorrowfully . 
I could not get Dr. Wolf to consent on any other terms ; Alfred , let us give up the idea . 
They passed through the yard and out at the back door , which Alfred had so often looked wistfully at ; and by-and-by reached a delicious pasture ; a light golden haze streamed across it ; Nature never seemed so sweet , so divine , to Alfred before ; the sun as bright as midsummer , though not the least hot , the air fresh , yet genial , and perfumed with Liberty and the smaller flowers of earth ; Beauty glided rustling by his side , and dark eyes subdued their native fire into softness whenever they turned on him ; and scarce fifty yards in the rear hung a bully and a mastiff ready to tear him down if he should break away from beauty 's light hand , that rested so timidly on his . 
He drew from his distressed friend that Dr. Wolf for reasons of his own had made special inquiries about the Dodds ; that she had fortunately or unfortunately heard of this , and had questioned the person employed , hoping to hear something that might comfort Alfred . 
said Alfred , trembling suddenly . 
`` The truth is the truth , '' gasped Alfred : `` tell me at once . '' 
cried Alfred furiously . 
At these words a cold sickness rushed all over Alfred , beginning at his heart . 
He stood white and stupified a moment : then , in the anguish of his heart , broke out into a great and terrible cry : it was like a young lion wounded with a poisoned shaft . 
Then he was silent , and stood stock still , like petrified despair . 
Mrs. Archbold was prepared for an outburst : but not of this kind . 
She had an impulse to earn his gratitude for life , to let him out of the asylum ere Julia should be Mrs. Hurd , and even liberty come too late for true love . 
She only tried to undo her own work in part ; to comfort him a little with common-places : she told him in a soothing whisper there were other women in the world besides this inconstant girl , others who could love him as he deserved . 
He made no answer to all she could say , but just waved his hand once impatiently . 
Petty consolation seemed to sting him . 
Her mood changed ; she moved noiselessly towards him , and , standing half behind him , laid her hand softly on his shoulder , and poured hot passion in his ear . 
`` Alfred , '' she murmured , `` we are both unhappy ; let us comfort one another . 
This news that has shocked you so has torn the veil from my eyes ; I thought I had cooled my love down to friendship and tender esteem ; but no , now I see you as unhappy as myself , now I can speak and wrong no one , I own I -- oh Alfred my heart burns for you , bleeds for you , yearns for you , sickens for you , dies for you . '' 
No young girl can understand or value such a man as you are : but I , like you , have suffered ; I , like you , am constant ; I , like you , am warm and tender ; at my age a woman 's love is bliss to him who can gain it ; and I love you with all my soul , Alfred ; I worship the ground you walk on , my sweet , sweet boy . 
But Alfred turned round to her blushing and sorrowful . 
`` For shame ! '' 
`` No ; I am not ungrateful either , '' said he , more gently . 
Mrs. Archbold was white with ire long before he had done this sentence . 
`` So I conclude , '' said he , coldly : `` such love as yours is hard by hate . '' 
`` I do n't understand you , '' said Alfred , feeling rather uneasy . 
`` How will you manage that , pray ? '' 
At this furious threat Alfred ground his teeth , and said : `` Then I give you my honour that the moment I see my reason the least shaken , I 'll kill you : and so save myself from the degradation of being your lover on any terms . '' 
After a defiance so bitter and deadly , Alfred naturally drew away from his inamorata . 
Come , sir , your arm ! '' 
He stuck it out ungraciously , and averted his head ; she took it , suppressed with difficulty a petty desire to pinch , and so walked by his side ; he was as much at his ease as if promenading jungles with a panther . 
She felt him quiver with repugnance under her soft hand ; and prolonged the irritating contact . 
She walked very slowly , and told him with much meaning she was waiting for a signal . 
Mrs. Archbold pointed it out to Alfred ; he stared at it ; and after that she walked him rapidly home in silence . 
But , as soon as the door was double-locked on him , she whispered triumphantly in his ear : `` Your mother-in-law was expected to-day ; that signal was to let me know she was gone . '' 
cried the young man , and tried in vain to conceal his surprise and agitation . 
said Alfred , clasping his hands . 
Then he reflected , and said coolly : `` It is false ; what should she come here for ? '' 
said Alfred , with an incredulous sneer . 
Alfred was now utterly amazed , and bewildered . 
Mrs. Archbold eyed him in silent scorn . 
`` Poor man , '' said he , at last ; and hung his head sorrowfully . 
Mrs. Archbold whistled him to her like a dog . 
Alfred panted , and his eyes roved wildly in search of a way to escape and follow her ; she could not be far off . 
At these words , every one of them an adder , Alfred turned on her furiously , and his long arm shot out of its own accord , and the fingers opened like an eagle 's claw . 
Her vindictive eye met his dilating flashing orbs unflinchingly . 
`` You pass for a woman , '' he said , `` and I am too wretched for anger . '' 
He turned from her with a deep convulsive sob , and , almost staggering , leaned his brow against the wall of the house . 
As for Alfred , he sat down upon a bench in the yard , a broken man : up to this moment he had hoped his Julia was as constant as himself . 
Jealously did not as yet infuriate Alfred . 
Little Beverley found him actually sick , and ran to the Robin . 
Alfred only sighed hopelessly . 
Alfred shook his head . 
So now force and cunning had declared war on Alfred , and feebleness in person enlisted in his defence . 
Here Mrs. Archbold aimed a double stroke ; to shake Alfred 's nerves , and show him how very mad his proposed father-in-law was . 
She thought that , if he could once be forced to realise this , it might reconcile him to not marrying the daughter . 
Alfred 's sleep was broken ; but he said nothing ; and David turned in again , his watch completed . 
What he saw made him now side heartily with Alfred ; and all he wanted was to be indemnified for his risk . 
Alfred offered him a hundred pounds . 
Alfred jumped at the proposal : he would give them a hundred apiece . 
Alfred asked what was up , and found all this was in preparation for the quarterly visit of the Commissioners ; a visit intended to be a surprise ; but Drayton House always knew when they were coming , and the very names of the two thunderbolts that thought to surprise them . 
They had a long interview with Mrs. Archbold first , for fear they should carry a naked eye into the asylum ; Mr. Bartlett , acting on instructions , very soon inquired about Alfred ; Mrs. Archbold 's face put on friendly concern directly . 
In short she gave them the impression that Alfred was a moping melancholiac . 
Alfred was accordingly sent for , and asked with an indifferent air how he was . 
He said he was very well in health , but in sore distress of mind at his letters to the Commissioners being intercepted by Mrs. Archbold or Dr. Wolf . 
Alfred surprised the glances , and said , `` You can hardly believe this , because the act is illegal . 
`` And now , gentlemen , '' said Alfred , `` since Mrs. Archbold has had a private interview , which I see she has abused to poison your mind against me , I claim as simple justice a private interview to disabuse you . '' 
As it was , he felt shocked at Alfred 's rudeness : and so small a thing as justice did not in his idea counterbalance so great a thing as discourtesy ; so he listened to Alfred 's tale with the deadly apathy of an unwilling hearer . 
At last Mr. Bartlett gave Alfred some hopes he was taking in the truth ; for he tore a leaf out of his memorandum-book , wrote on it , and passed it to Dr. Terry . 
Not a question was put to Alfred ; so he was fain to come to an end ; he withdrew suddenly , and caught Mrs. Archbold at the keyhole . 
said he , and stalked away , and hid himself hard by : and no sooner did the inspectors come out , and leave the coast clear , than he darted in and looked for the paper Mr. Bartlett had passed to Dr. Terry . 
Alfred stood and read this again , and again : he searched for some hidden symbolical meaning in the words . 
High-minded , and deeply impressed with his own wrongs , he could not conceive a respectable man , paid fifteen hundred a year to spy out wrongs , being so heartless hard as to write this single comment during the earnest recital of a wrong so gigantic as his . 
Poor Alfred learned this to his cost , that to put small men into great places is to create monsters . 
When he had realised the bitter truth , he put the stony-hearted paper in his pocket , crept into the yard , and sat down , and , for all he could do , scalding tears ran down his cheeks . 
`` Homunculi quanti sunt ! '' 
Presently he saw Dr. Terry come wandering towards him alone . 
Alfred , all heart-sick as he was , went to the old gentleman out of veneration for the outside of his head -- which was Shakespearian -- and pity for his bodily infirmity ; and offered him an arm . 
Then Alfred saw that the ancient man had already forgotten his face , and so looking at him with that rare instrument of official inspection , the naked eye , had seen he was sane ; and consequently taken him for a keeper . 
Flashed like lightning through Alfred 's mind this line from one of his pets , the Greek philosophers : Kai touto megisthV esti tecnhV agaqa poiein ta kaka `` And this is the greatest stroke of art , to turn an evil into a good . '' 
The old fogie said he thought he should , and groped vaguely for his note-book : he extracted it at last like a loose tooth , fumbled with it , and dropped it : Alfred picked it up fuming inwardly . 
The ancient went to write , but his fingers were weak and hesitating , and by this time he had half forgotten what he was going to say . 
Alfred 's voice quavered with impatience ; but he fought it down , and offered as coolly as he could to write it for him : the offer was accepted , and he wrote down in a feigned hand , very clear , `` Drayton House , Oct. 5 . 
A sane patient , Alfred Hardie , confined here from interested motives . 
After this stroke of address Alfred took the first opportunity of leaving him , and sent Frank Beverley to him . 
Thus Alfred , alarmed by the hatred of Mrs. Archbold , and racked with jealousy , exerted all his intelligence and played many cards for liberty . 
One he kept in reserve ; and a trump card too . 
Having now no ink nor colouring matter , he did not hesitate , but out penknife , up sleeve , and drew blood from his arm , and with it wrote once more to the Commissioners , but kept this letter hidden for an ingenious purpose . 
Her great and settled fear had always been that Alfred was dead . 
Under the immediate influence of his father 's cunning , she had for a moment believed he was false ; but so true and loving a heart could not rest in that opinion . 
So , as Alfred had never been seen since , as nobody could say he was married to another , there was a grain of uncertainty as to his unfaithfulness , and this her true heart magnified to a mountain . 
She was sure he had written the advertisement . 
Who but he , out of the few that take the words of any song to heart , admired Aileen Aroon ? 
Who but he out of the three or four people who might possibly care for that old song , had appearances to explain away ? 
and who but he knew they took in the Morning Advertiser ? 
And then her mother came in and assured her he had only inserted that advertisement to keep her in his power . 
They saw they must waste no time ; Julia looked at her mother , rose , and took Alfred 's missive to his desk , and handed it him with one of her eloquent looks , grave and pitiful . 
Unconsciously these two had dealt their enemy and Alfred 's a heavy blow ; had set the train to a mine . 
Their friend at the office was a man of another stamp than Alfred had fallen in with . 
Meantime Alfred was subjected to hourly mortifications and irritations . 
He guessed the motive , and tried to baffle it by calm self-possession : but this was far more difficult than heretofore , because his temper was now exacerbated and his fibre irritated by broken sleep -LRB- of this poor David was a great cause -RRB- , and his heart inflamed and poisoned by that cruel , that corroding passion , jealousy . 
Yet up to this time she had shown none of that inconstancy of purpose which marks her sex ; while she did go far to justify the poet 's charge : Rooke had a hint to provoke Alfred to violence such as would justify them in subjecting so popular a patient to bodily restraint , composing draughts , and other quick maddeners . 
Rooke entered into the game zealously from two motives ; he was devoted to Mrs. Archbold , and he hated Alfred , who had openly defied him , and mortified his vanity about Frank Beverley . 
One Saturday Alfred was ordered out to walk with Rooke and Hayes and Vulcan . 
He raised no objection ; suspected , felt homicidal , suppressed the impulse , and by this self-command he got time to give that letter to Beverley with instructions . 
But , all the walk , he was saying to himself that Julia was in the house , and he was kept away from her , and a rival with her ; this made him sicken and rage by turns . 
Alfred 's long-pent fury broke out : he gnashed his teeth and dashed his fist in Rooke 's face . 
Alfred staggered back some steps , but steadied himself , and , as Rooke rushed in too hastily to improve his advantage , caught him heavily on the other eye , but lost his own balance a little , which enabled Rooke to close ; then came a sharp short rally of re-echoing blows , and Rooke , not to be denied , got hold of his man , and a wrestling bout ensued , in which Alfred being somewhat weakened by misery and broken rest , Rooke 's great weight and strength enabled him , after a severe struggle , to fall with his antagonist under him , and knock the breath out of his body for the moment . 
When Alfred was handcuffed they turned him loose . 
It soon transpired , however , that he was now a dangerous maniac -LRB- Formula -RRB- , and to be confined in the noisy ward . 
On hearing this he saw the trap he had fallen into ; saw and trembled : he asked himself what on earth he should do ; and presently the saying came back to him , `` And this is the highest stroke of art to turn evil into good . '' 
He argued thus : Wolf 's love of money is my great evil : he will destroy me for money , do anything for money . 
Then suppose I offer him money to be honest . 
`` Not very , considering the trouble you sometimes give , Mr. Hardie , '' was the dry reply . 
At this piece of hypocrisy Alfred 's cheek reddened , and he could not speak . 
Alfred stared . 
Had he mistaken his man ? 
`` I know them , '' said the quick-witted Alfred ; `` they are worth more than a thousand pounds . '' 
Then she owned to him with manifest reluctance that Alfred had taken advantage of her kindness , her indiscretion , in walking alone with him , and made passionate love to her . 
Then seeing out of a corner of her eye that the doctor was turning almost green with jealousy , this artist proceeded to describe the love-scene between her and Alfred , with feigned hesitation , yet minute detail ; only she inverted the parts ; Alfred in her glowing page made the hot love ; she listened abashed , confused , and tried all she could think of to bring him to better sentiments . 
In short , she worked on him so , that he left Alfred at her disposition , and was no sooner gone to his other asylum six miles off , than the calumniated was conducted by Hayes and Rooke through passage after passage , and door after door , to a wing of the building connected with the main part only by a covered way . 
Alfred 's flesh began to creep . 
He stopped at the covered way : he would have fought to his last gasp sooner than go further ; but he was handcuffed . 
He appealed to the keepers ; but he had used them both too roughly ; they snarled and forced him on , and shut him into a common flagged cell , with a filthy truckle-bed in it , and all the vessels of gutta-percha . 
Here he was surrounded by the desperate order of maniacs he at present scarcely knew but by report . 
Throughout that awful night he could never close his eyes for the horrible unearthly sounds that assailed him . 
Singing , swearing , howling like wild beasts ! 
His right-hand neighbour reasoned high of faith and works , ending each pious argument with a sudden rhapsody of oaths , and never slept a wink . 
And then he would deliver a long fervent prayer , and follow it up immediately with a torrent of blasphemies so terrific that coming in such a contrast they made Alfred 's body wet with perspiration to hear a poor creature so defy his Creator . 
His ears assailed with horrors , of which you have literally no conception , or shadow of a conception , his nose poisoned with ammoniacal vapours , and the peculiar wild-beast smell that marks the true maniac , Alfred ran wildly about his cell trying to stop his ears , and trembling for his own reason . 
When the fearful night rolled away , and morning broke , and he could stand on his truckle-bed and see God 's hoar-frost on a square yard of grass level with his prison bars , it refreshed his very soul , and affected him almost to tears . 
He was then , to his surprise , taken out , and allowed to have a warm bath and to breakfast with David and the rest ; but I suspect it was done to watch the effect of the trial he had been submitted to . 
Alfred smiled and held out his hand like a captive monarch to his faithful vassal . 
Alfred 's next visitor was the Robin . 
The Robin then sauntered away , affecting nonchalance : and Alfred proceeded to hold the candle as directed . 
She whistled , and sent for him ; and gave him the requisite order before Alfred . 
Alfred thanked her warmly . 
She smiled , and went away disposed to change her tactics , and , having shown him how she could torment , try soothing means , and open his heart by gratitude . 
In the dusk of the evening the Robin took an opportunity and slipped a new key of the back gate into Alfred 's hand , and told him `` the trick was to be done that very night : '' he was to get Thompson to go to bed early : and , instead of taking off his clothes , was to wait in readiness . 
`` Ah , Robin , '' said Alfred , `` it sounds too good to be true . 
Then he easily persuaded David to go to bed ; Hayes went up and unlocked the door for them : it closed with a catch-lock . 
Hayes was drunk , but full of discipline , and insisted on the patients putting out their clothes ; so Alfred made up a bundle for his portmanteau , and threw it out . 
Hayes alone was gloomy , and morose : so the Robin and Garrett consoled him , drank with him , and soothed him with the balm of insensibility : in which condition they removed him under charitable pretences , and searched his pockets in the passage for the key of Alfred 's room . 
To their infinite surprise and disappointment it was not upon him . 
The fact is , Mrs. Archbold had snatched it from him in her wrath , and put it in her own pocket . 
In fact , the only patients at that time were Dodd and Alfred . 
`` It is Mr. Hardie , '' screamed the Robin . 
`` You have left him locked in . '' 
One little hour ago Alfred sat on the bed , full of hope . 
Every minute he expected to hear the Robin put a key into the door . 
cried Alfred in vain . 
But Alfred implored him , and got him to kneel down with him , and held his hand , and prayed . 
And , even while they kneeled and Alfred prayed , Death and Life met and fought for them . 
Alfred did not know what that was , but it gave him a vague hope : he prayed aloud as men pray only for their bodies . 
-LRB- The crowd heard him and hushed itself breathless . -RRB- 
Alfred gave up all hope , and prepared to die . 
`` Up men for your lives , '' roared this fire-warrior , clutching them hard , and dragged them both up to their feet by one prodigious gesture : all three faces came together and shone in the lurid light ; and he knew his father and `` the Wretch , '' and `` the Wretch '' knew him . 
But poor David called that deserting the ship , and demurred , till Alfred assured him the captain had ordered it . 
He then submitted directly , touched his forelock to Edward , whom he took for that officer , and went down the ladder ; Alfred followed . 
Alfred and David were overpowered with curiosity and sympathy . 
`` Gently , good friends ; do n't part us , '' said Alfred . 
`` All right , '' was the cry , and they rushed with him to the back door . 
He fought his way and struggled after Alfred in silence . 
Presently , to his surprise , Alfred unlocked the door and whipped out with David , leaving the door open . 
In the confusion Alfred drew David along the side of the wall ; told him to stay quiet , bolted behind an outhouse , and then ran across country for the bare life . 
To his horror David followed him , and with a madman 's agility soon caught him . 
`` Come on then , '' cried Alfred , half mad himself with excitement , and the pair ran furiously , and dashed through hedges and ditches , torn , bleeding , splashed , triumphant ; behind them the burning madhouse , above them the spangled sky , the fresh free air of liberty blowing in their nostrils , and rushing past their ears . 
Alfred 's chest expanded , he laughed for joy , he sang for joy , he leaped as he went ; nor did he care where he went . 
Mrs. Archbold thought she meant Alfred and David : this new shock was as good for her as cold water : she became quieter , and presently gulped out , `` You saw them ? 
It was not an attendant , but a madman , and that madman was Alfred Hardie , upon my soul ! 
She then assured him that , if Alfred 's sad state came to Julia 's ears , all her love for him would revive , and she would break with Mr. Hurd , and indeed never marry all her life . 
`` I see no end to her misery , '' continued Mrs. Dodd , with a deep sigh ; `` for she is full of courage ; she would not shrink from a madhouse -LRB- why she visits lazarhouses every day -RRB- ; she would be always going to see her Alfred , and so nurse her pity and her unhappy love . 
Then she did say she could never marry any but a clergyman , now she had lost her poor Alfred . 
And then I told her I thought Mrs. Hurd could make her happy , and she would make me happy if she could esteem him ; and marry him . '' 
Now at this moment Alfred and David were bowling along ahead with a perfect sense of security . 
All that first night , the grandest of his life , Alfred walked on air , and drank the glorious exhilarating breath of Freedom . 
But , when the sun dawned on them , his intoxicating joy began to be dashed with apprehension ; hatless and bemired , might they not be suspected and detained by some officious authority ? 
But the slop-shop set that all right . 
He took a double-bedded room in The Bear , locked the door , put the key under his pillow , and slept till eleven . 
At noon they were on the road again , and , as they swung lustily along in the frosty but kindly air , Alfred 's chest expanded , his spirits rose , and he felt a man all over . 
Exhilarated by freedom , youth , and motion , and a little inflated by reviving vanity , his heart , buoyant as his foot , now began to nurse aspiring projects : he would indict his own father , and the doctors , and immolate them on the altar of justice , and publicly wipe off the stigma they had cast on him , and meantime he would cure David and restore him to his family . 
Alfred humoured him , and an hour after sunset they reached the town of Canterbury . 
Here Alfred took the same precautions as before , and slept till nine o'clock . 
When he awoke , he found David walking to and fro impatiently . 
`` All right , messmate , '' said Alfred , `` we shall soon be in blue water . '' 
Alfred went to a good inn in Folkestone and ordered a steak , then strolled with David by the beach , and gloried in the water with him . 
And this remark , slight as it was , was practical , and gave Alfred great delight : strengthened his growing conviction that not for nothing had this charge been thrown on him . 
He should be the one to cure his own father : for Julia 's father was his : he had no other now . 
`` All right , '' said he gaily , `` we 'll soon be on blue water : but first we 'll have our dinner , old boy , for I am starving . '' 
Alfred told the waiter to uncover and David to fall to , while he just ran up-stairs to wash his hands . 
said Alfred . 
Alfred darted out and scoured the town ; he asked everybody if they had seen a tall gentleman dressed like a common sailor : nobody could tell him : there were so many sailors about the port ; that which in an inland town would have betrayed the truant concealed him here . 
A cold perspiration began to gather on Alfred 's brow , as he ran wildly all over the place . 
He could not find him , nor any trace of him . 
At last it struck him that he had originally proposed to go to Dover , and had spoken of that town to David , though he had now glanced aside , making for the smaller ports on the south coast : he hired a horse directly , and galloped furiously to Dover . 
Alfred 's blood ran cold . 
No , no , '' he stammered ; `` I suspect I am on the same business . '' 
Then he said cunningly -LRB- for asylums teach the frankest natures cunning -RRB- , `` Come and have a glass of grog and tell me all about it . '' 
In the bare outlines , which were all this artist could furnish him , Alfred recognised at once whom do you think ? 
Alfred gnashed his teeth ; `` Curse you , '' he muttered . 
`` Well , do my work in Folkestone , I 'll find him yet , and baffle you . '' 
He turned his horse 's head westward and rode after David . 
asked Alfred at last , under his breath . 
Alfred looked , and looked : the water came into his eyes . 
`` It 's the best thing that can befal him now , '' he murmured . 
He gave the man half-a-crown , and then turned his horse 's head and walked him down the hill towards Folkestone . 
On his arrival there he paid for his horse , and his untasted dinner , and took the first train to London , a little dispirited ; and a good deal mortified ; for he hated to be beat : but David was in good hands , that was one comfort ; and he had glorious work on hand , love and justice . 
Mr. Compton used to do his own business in Barkington , and employ an agent in London : but Alfred remembered to have heard just before his incarceration that he had reversed the parts , and now lived in London . 
Alfred found him out by the Directory , and called at his chambers in Lincoln 's Inn Fields . 
`` Now , sir , '' said Mr. Colls cheerfully to Alfred . 
At Alfred 's smile and address Colls fell in love with him directly , and assured him sotto voce , and with friendly familiarity , that now was his time . 
`` With this he took Alfred 's name , and ushered him into a room piled with japanned tin boxes , where Mr. Compton sat , looking all complacency , at a large desk table , on which briefs , and drafts , and letters lay in profusion and seeming confusion . 
He rose , and with a benignant courtesy invited Alfred to sit down and explain his business . 
The reader is aware our Oxonian could make a close and luminous statement . 
He began at the beginning , but soon disposed of preliminaries and came to his capture at Silverton . 
Then Mr. Compton quietly rang the bell , and with a slight apology to Alfred requested Colls to search for the draft of Mrs. Holloway 's will . 
Alfred continued . 
Alfred gave them . 
`` Not I , '' said Alfred . 
Alfred did not appreciate this observation : he made no reply to it , but inquired , with some heat , `` what he could do to punish the whole gang ; his father , the certifying doctors , and the madhouse keepers ? '' 
He took down the statutes of the realm , and showed Alfred the clause , which raises the proprietor of a madhouse above the civic level of a Prince Royal . 
`` Curse the law , '' said Alfred bitterly . 
Alfred groaned . 
`` Cool , sir , '' said Alfred , despairingly ; `` I am frozen with your remorseless law . 
Alfred wrote it . 
Alfred wrote as requested , and Mr. Compton put the paper in his drawer , remarking , `` With this I can proceed by law or equity , even should you get into the asylum again . '' 
He then dismissed Alfred somewhat abruptly , but with an invitation to call again after three clear days . 
Like most ardent suitors after their first interview with passionless law , he went away sadly chilled , and so home to his cheerless lodging , to count the hours till he could see Julia , and learn his fate from her lips . 
Edward thanked him , and put on his hat directly , for he could not disguise from himself that this visitor might be Alfred Hardie . 
As he walked rapidly to the station he grew more and more convinced that it was Alfred Hardie . 
And his reflections ran like this . 
And he made papa go down the ladder first : that was the old Alfred Hardie ; he was always generous : vain , overbearing , saucy , but noble with it all . 
I liked him : he was a man that showed you his worst , and let you find his best out by degrees . 
He hated to be beat : but that 's no crime . 
He was a beautiful oar : and handled his mawleys uncommon ; he sparred with all the prizefighters that came to Oxford , and took punishment better than you would think ; and a wonderful quick hitter ; Alec Reed owned that . 
Arrived at the station , he inquired whether his friend had called again , and was answered in the negative . 
He waited a few minutes , and then , with the superintendent 's permission , wrote a note to Alfred , inviting him to dine at Simpson 's at six , and left it with the firemen . 
This done , he was about to return home , when another thought struck him . 
He got a messenger , and sent off a single line to Dr. Wolf , to tell him Alfred Hardie would be at Simpson 's at seven o'clock . 
But , when the messenger was gone , he regretted what he had done . 
He had done it for Alfred 's good ; but still it was treason . 
He felt unhappy , and wended his way homeward disconsolately , realising more and more that he had not brains for the difficulties imposed upon him . 
On entering Pembroke Street he heard a buzz . 
`` Why that is near our house , '' he said , and quickened his steps . 
When he got near he saw that all the people 's eyes were bent on No. 66 . 
`` What on earth is the matter ? '' 
At that he turned pale as death . 
Alfred Hardie spent three days writhing in his little lodging . 
Mr. Compton received him cheerfully , and told him he had begun operations in Hardie versus Hardie : had written to Thomas Hardie two days ago , and inquired his London solicitor , and whether that gentleman would accept service of the writ in Hardie versus Hardie . 
asked Alfred . 
Then seeing amazement and incredulity on Alfred 's face , he explained that the Commissioners of Lunacy had treated him with great courtesy ; had at once furnished him with copies , not only of the order and certificates , but of other valuable documents . 
`` And there , '' said he , `` lies the order ; signed by Thomas Hardie , of Clare Court , Yorkshire . '' 
`` Curse his impudence , '' cried Alfred in a fury : `` why , sir , he is next door to an idiot himself . '' 
By-the-by , here is counsel 's opinion on your case , '' and he handed him a short opinion of a distinguished Queen 's Counsel , the concluding words of which were these : 3 . 
If the certificates and order are in legal form and were made and given bonâ fide , no action lies for the capture or detention of Mr. Hardie . 
`` Why it is dead against me , '' said Alfred . 
Mr. Compton opened it , and saying , `` Now let us see what he says , '' read it to Alfred . 
If the facts are as represented -LRB- on which , of course , I can form no opinion -RRB- , Mr. Hardie can safely sue the person who signed the order for his alleged false imprisonment . 
Plt. , if successful , is saddled with his own costs , and sometimes with Deft . 
`` N.B. -- I have been thus particular , because Hardie v. Hardie -LRB- if carried to a verdict -RRB- will probably be a leading case . '' 
in quired Alfred , satirically . 
`` You appear sanguine , Mr. Compton , '' said Alfred : `` perhaps you would not mind advancing me a little money . 
He then made Alfred sign a promissory note for the thirty pounds : advised him to keep snug for one week more , and promised to write to him in two days , and send Thomas Hardie 's answer . 
Alfred left his address and went from Mr. Compton a lighter man . 
Alfred , having now no worry to divert him from his deeper anxiety , was all love and jealousy ; and quite overbalanced : the desire of his heart grew so strong it overpowered alike his patience , and his prudence . 
If Alfred 's face had only been turned the other way , he would have seen Edward , and all would have gone differently . 
Unable to find Julia in the very street she inhabited , Alfred felt weak against fate . 
In his hour of dejection stern reason would be heard , and asked him whether all Mrs. Archbold had said could be pure invention ; and he was obliged to confess that was too unlikely . 
Then he felt so sick at heart he was half minded to turn and fly the street . 
But there was a large yard close by him , entered by a broad and lofty gateway cut through one of the houses . 
Alfred slipped in here , and sat down on the shaft of a waggon : and let his courage ooze . 
He sighed , and sighed , and feared to know his fate . 
And so he sat with his face in his hands unmanned . 
Presently a strain of music broke on his ear . 
It seemed to come from the street . 
He raised his head to listen . 
He coloured , his eyes sparkled ; he stole out on tiptoe with wondering , inquiring , face into the street . 
Once there , he stood spell-bound , thrilling from his heart , that seemed now on fire , to his fingers ' ends . 
For a heavenly voice was singing to the piano , just above his head ; singing in earnest ' making the very street ring . 
Alfred started back as if he had been stung ; and the music stopped dead short . 
For she had heard his step , and , womanlike , was looking into her companions ' eyes first , to see if her ear had deceived her . 
Her hands rose towards her face , and she shrank away sideways from him as if he was a serpent , and her dilated eyes looked over her cringing shoulder at him , and she was pale and red and pale and red a dozen times in as many seconds . 
`` Pray , sir , '' said Alfred , turning on Mr. Hurd , `` have you any right to interfere between us two ? '' 
Mr. Hardie knows he can not enter a house where I am -- without an explanation . '' 
This wounded Alfred deeply . 
`` Oh , as you please , '' said he . 
said Julia , not deigning to notice his threat . 
`` In prison , Alfred ? '' 
`` In the worst of all prisons ; where I was put because I loved you ; where I was detained because I persisted in loving you , you faithless , inconstant girl . '' 
The girl stared at him bewildered . 
He put his hand into his pocket , and took Peggy 's letter . 
`` Read that , '' he said . 
She held it in her hand , and looked him in the face to divine the contents . 
`` Read it , '' said he , almost fiercely : `` that was the decoy . '' 
I do n't know whether she read it or not . 
You , who have thought proper to stay and hear me insult my betrothed , and put my superior on his defence , look how I receive his just rebuke : dear , cruelly used Alfred , I never doubted you in my heart , no not for a moment ; forgive me for taunting you to clear yourself ; you who were always the soul of truth and honour . 
Forgive me : I too have suffered ; for I thought my Alfred was dead . 
The other gentlemen had comprehended at last that it was indelicate to remain : they had melted quietly away ; and Peterson rushed down the street ; but Hurd hung disconsolate about the very entry , where Alfred had just desponded before him . 
`` Sit by me , my poor darling , and tell me all , '' said Julia . 
He began ; but , ere he had told her about his first day at his first asylum , she moaned and turned faint at the recital , and her lovely head sank on his shoulder . 
He kissed her , and tried to comfort her , and said he would not tell her any more . 
Which did not seem to Alfred a cogent reason for continuing his narrative . 
He varied it by telling her that through all his misery the thought of her had sustained him . 
A rough voice was heard in the passage inquiring for Mr. Hardie . 
Alfred started up in dismay : for it was Rooke 's voice . 
`` I am undone , '' he cried . 
up-stairs ; the leads . '' 
He whistled and rushed after Alfred . 
Alfred bounded up the next flight of stairs : but , even as he went , his fighting blood got up ; he remembered his pistol : he drew it , turned on the upper landing , and levelled the weapon full at Rooke 's forehead . 
`` Come , Mr. Hardie , sir , '' said he , `` that is past a joke : would you murder a man ? '' 
He was half-muzzled ; but that Alfred did not know : he stepped forward and fired at the tremendous brute somewhat unsteadily ; and missed him , by an inch ; the bullet glanced off the stairs and entered the wall within a yard of Rooke 's head ; ere Alfred could fire again , the huge brute leaped on him , and knocked him down like a child , and made a grab at his throat ; Alfred , with admirable presence of mind , seized a banister , and , drawing himself up , put the pistol to Vulcan 's ear , and fired the other barrel just as Rooke rushed up the stairs to secure his prisoner : the dog bounded into the air and fell over dead with shattered skull , leaving Alfred bespattered with blood and brains , and half blinded : but he struggled up , and tore the banister out in doing so , just as a heavy body fell forward at his feet : it was Rooke stumbling over Vulcan 's carcase so unexpectedly thrown in his path : Alfred cleared his eyes with his hand , and as Rooke struggled up , lifted the banister high above his head , and , with his long sinewy arm and elastic body , discharged a blow frightful to look at , for youth , strength , skill , and hate all swelled , and rose , and struck together in that one furious gesture . 
Alfred hurled the remnant of the banister down at Hayes and the others , and darted into a room -LRB- it was Julia 's bedroom -RRB- , and was heard to open the window , and then drag furniture to the door , and barricade it . 
This done , he went to load his pistol , which he thought he had slipped into his pocket after felling Rooke . 
He sent down word to his sentinels in the yard to be prepared for any attempt on Alfred 's part , however desperate : and he sent a verbal message to a stately gentleman who was sitting anxious in lodgings over the way , after bribing high and low giving out money like water to secure the recapture , and so escape what he called his unnatural son 's vengeance ; for he knew him to be by nature bold and vindictive like himself . 
After these preliminaries , Doctor Wolf headed his remaining forces , to wit , two keepers , and two policemen , and thundered at the bedroom door , and summoned Alfred to surrender . 
Mr. Hurd , disconcerted by Alfred 's sudden reappearance , and the lovers ' reconciliation , had hung about the entry very miserable : for he was sincerely attached to Julia . 
But , while he was in this stupor , came the posse to recapture Alfred , and he heard them say so . 
He said what he could to encourage her , then deposited her in an arm-chair and went up-stairs ; he soon satisfied himself Alfred was not in the house . 
On this he requested Dr. Wolf and his men to leave the premises . 
Then she crept away to her bedroom , and locked herself in , and sat on the hearth-rug , and thought , and thought , and recalled every word and tone of her Alfred ; comparing things old and new . 
Dr. Wolf and his men had retired leaving a sentinel in the street , on the bare chance of Alfred returning . 
Julia , as I have said , went to her own room , wounded unintentionally by a chance speech : she sat down sick at heart ; and presently opened her window and looked out upon the starry night , and wondered where Alfred was now ; that Alfred for whom nobody else had a human heart , it seemed . 
`` Alfred ! 
my poor Alfred ! '' 
she sighed , and half-expected to hear him reply . 
You are my own Alfred still . 
At this her feelings carried her away , and she cried aloud on him despairingly , and leaned upon the window-sill , and the tears ran fast for him . 
`` Alfred ? '' 
She whispered , `` Alfred ! '' 
asked Alfred uneasily . 
`` Ned ; old fellow , '' groaned Alfred , `` you pulled me out of the fire ; wo n't you help me out of this ? 
He felt about till he came to a protuberance ; and that was Alfred under the tarpaulin , in which he had cut breathing-holes with his penknife . 
Edward then removed Alfred 's shoes and stockings , and Julia bared her lovely arms , and blushed like a rose . 
Alfred divined her intention . 
`` Dear Julia , '' he said , `` I wo n't let you : that is too high an honour . 
Julia followed this advice by handling Alfred 's swollen ankle with a tenderness so exquisite , and pressing it with the full sponge so softly , that her divine touch soothed him as much or more than the water . 
After nursing him into the skies a minute or two , she looked up blushing in his face , and said coaxingly , `` Are you mad , dear Alfred ? 
Alfred smiled at this sapient discourse , and said he was not the least mad , and hoped to take care of her as soon as his ankle was well enough . 
Then Edward asked Alfred how in the world he had escaped , and got into that waggon . 
`` No , '' said Alfred , `` it looks stranger to you than it is . 
whined Alfred . 
Alfred thus invited , delivered one of his calm , luminous statements ; which had hitherto been listened to so coldly by one official after another . 
And so Edward , coming in with Alfred 's dinner on a tray , found the soi-disant maniac delivering his wrongs with the lofty serenity of an ancient philosopher discussing the wrongs of another , Julia crying furtively into the tub , and the good physician trampling and raving about the room , like what the stoical narrator was accused of being . 
`` Well , '' said he , `` if there 's a madman in the room , it is not Hardie . 
ye young ijjit , '' roared the doctor , `` he is no madder than I am . '' 
`` Heaven forbid , '' said Alfred drily . 
`` That 's an ungenerous skit on his profession , '' said the maniac . 
The doctor had always a high sense of Alfred 's volubility . 
`` In this he related pithily Alfred 's incarceration , and the present attempt to recapture him , with the particulars of his escape . 
`` That will interest th ' enemy , '' said he drily . 
He vouched for Alfred 's sanity at both dates , and pledged himself to swear to it in a court of law . 
Julia was delighted ; but Alfred shook his head . 
`` Put on your bonnet , then , directly , '' said he : `` in war never lose a minute . '' 
`` No , no , '' said the pugnacious Alfred . 
Then it had to stoop , and Edward and Julia helped it out to the carriage , under the very noses of a policeman and a keeper , who were watching for Alfred : seeing which -- oh frailty of woman ! 
Alfred was actually not recognised : the carriage bowled away to the great printing-house ; it was on that side the water . 
The doctor drove Alfred to his own lodgings , and forbade him to reappear in Pembroke Street until the letter should come out in the London journals . 
Richard Hardie , in the very act of setting detectives to find Alfred 's lurking-place , ran his nose against this letter in the Globe . 
His letter was crossed by one from Dr. Wolf , containing Sampson 's thunderbolt extracted from the Sun , and saying that no earthly consideration should induce him to meddle with Alfred now . 
On receiving this letter , Alfred bought another double pistol , loaded it , hired a body-guard of two prize-fighters , and with these at his heels , repaired to 66 , Pembroke Street . 
No enemy was near : the press had swept the street alike of keepers and police with one Briarian gesture . 
In the discussion of this letter Alfred betrayed a slight defect of character . 
Julia was less patient , and though she was too loving and too womanly to tell Alfred to his face he was deceiving himself and arguing thus indirectly to justify himself in taking her father out of the asylum at all , yet she saw it , and it imparted a certain coldness into her replies . 
Alfred noticed this , and became less confident and louder , and prodigiously logical . 
Alfred stopped , and they all started to their feet . 
At sight of Alfred she stood dumbfoundered a single moment ; then uttered a faint shriek ; and looked at him with unutterable terror . 
Julia ran , and throwing her arms round Mrs. Dodd 's neck , entreated her not to be afraid of him : he was not mad ; Dr. Sampson said so . 
For the first time in her life Mrs. Dodd was deaf to her daughter 's natural eloquence ; it was remarkable how little her countenance changed while Julia appealed ; she stood looking askant with horror at Alfred all through that gentle eloquent appeal . 
But nevertheless her conduct showed she had heard every word : as soon as ever her daughter 's voice stopped , she seemed to dilate bodily , and moved towards Alfred pale and lowering . 
She confronted Alfred . 
Alfred hung his head , and said humbly , `` I did but go up-stairs for one moment to wash my hands for dinner ; and he was gone . '' 
Mrs. Dodd went on in her low stern voice , almost as if he had not answered her at all : `` By what right did you assume the charge of him ? 
Alfred replied sullenly : `` He was not very safe , for he was almost burnt to death . 
`` Mr. Hardie , '' said Mrs. Dodd , `` what you have done was the act of a madman : and , if I believed you to be anything but a madman , the sight of you would be intolerable to me ; for you have made me a widow , and my children orphans . '' 
Alfred rose , pale and defiant . 
`` That is her notion of justice , '' said he bitterly ; `` pray is it yours , you two ? '' 
`` I see , '' said Alfred sorrowfully . 
I 'll go to my sister . '' 
Hardie , old fellow , we are very unhappy , all of us . 
These kind words soothed Alfred 's sore heart . 
He brightened up and entered the drawing-room . 
Alfred was alarmed . 
`` You are unwell , dearest , '' he cried ; `` you will faint . 
What have I done with my ungoverned temper ? '' 
`` No , Alfred , '' said she solemnly , `` I am not ill . 
Sit down beside me , my poor Alfred ; and -- God help me to speak to him ! '' 
Alfred began to feel dire misgivings . 
And here she took his sinewy hand with her soft palm . 
`` My Julia , '' said Alfred gravely , `` something has happened to Jane . '' 
She met with a terrible accident . '' 
`` Alfred , be patient . 
`` No , Alfred , '' said Julia , solemnly ; `` she is not disfigured : oh far from that . '' 
`` Yes , Alfred : if you will but follow her steps and believe in Him , who soothed her last hour , and made her face shine with joy like an angel 's while we all wept around ; oh dear , oh dear , oh dear , he said he had but one true friend in the world . 
It fell , and his anguish was frightful , all the more so that he ascribed the calamity to his imprisonment , and mingled curses and threats of vengeance with his bursts of grief . 
He spurned the consolations of religion : he said heaven was as unjust as earth , as cruel as hell . 
She cried out and stopped his mouth with her hand : she almost forced him to kneel beside her , and prayed aloud for him : and when at last his agony found vent in tears , she put her innocent arms round his neck and wept with him . 
`` Alfred , '' said Julia , `` do not torment yourself . 
And these two mourners had the room to themselves till midnight ; for even Mrs. Dodd 's hostility respected Alfred then , and as for Julia , she was one of those who rise with the occasion : she was half wife , half angel from Heaven to her bereaved lover through all those bitter hours . 
Alfred came every day to see Julia , and Mrs. Dodd invariably left the room at his knock . 
At last Julia proposed to Alfred not to come to the house for the present ; but to accompany her on her rounds as district visitor . 
Alfred assented to this arrangement with rather an ill grace . 
He misunderstood Julia , and thought she was sacrificing him to what he called her mother 's injustice . 
But when this had gone on nearly a month , and no change , Alfred lost patience : so he lingered one day at the door to make a request . 
He asked Julia to marry him ; and so put an end to this state of things . 
After the first thrill , she appealed to his candour whether that would not be miserably selfish of her to leave her poor mother in her present distressed condition . 
`` Ah , Alfred , so pale , so spiritless , and inconsolable ! 
But he repeated doggedly that it must come to that , sooner or later . 
Then he reminded her of their solemn engagement , and put it to her whether it was a moral proceeding in her to go back from her plighted troth ? 
What had he done to justify her in drawing back from her word ? 
`` I admit , '' said he , `` that I have suffered plenty of wrong for your sake : but what have I done wrong ? '' 
Undeterred by the fear of immorality , the monotonous girl had but one reply to his multiform reasons : `` This is no time for me to abandon my mother . '' 
`` Ah , it is her you love : you do n't care for me , '' snapped Alfred . 
`` Do n't I , dear Alfred ? '' 
`` You are my Alfred . 
The encroaching youth had gained an entrance by agitating her so at the door that she had to ask him in to hide her own blushes from the public . -RSB- 
She now gently reminded him how much happier they were than they had been for months . 
`` And that is true , my poor Alfred . '' 
This softened him a little ; and then she interwove her fingers together , and so put both palms softly on his shoulder -LRB- you never saw a male do that , and never will -RRB- , and implored him to be patient , to be generous . 
''' This melted him altogether , and he said he would not torment her any more . 
But he went away discontented with himself for having yielded : my lord did not call it `` yielding , '' but `` being defeated . '' 
And as he was not only very deep in love , but by nature combative , he took a lodging nearly opposite No. 66 , and made hot love to her , as hot as if the attachment was just forming . 
Her mother could not go out but he was at the door directly : she could not go out but he was at her heels . 
This pleased her at first and thrilled her with the sense of sweet and hot pursuit : but by-and-by , situated as she was between him and her mother , it worried her a little at times , and made her nervous . 
She spoke a little sharply to him now and then . 
At last she advised him to go back to Oxford . 
But presently his evil genius prompted Alfred to endeavour to soften Mrs. Dodd by letter , and induce her to consent to his marriage with her daughter . 
It was wonderfully polite and cold ; Mrs. Dodd feigned unmixed surprise at the proposal , and said that insanity being unfortunately in her own family , and the suspicion of insanity resting on himself , such a union was not to be thought of ; and therefore , notwithstanding her respect for his many good qualities , she must decline with thanks the honour he offered her . 
As hostile testators used to leave the disinherited one shilling , not out of a shilling 's worth of kindly feeling , but that he might not be able to say his name was omitted through inadvertency , so Mrs. Dodd inserted this postscript merely to clench the nail and tantalise her enemy . 
She would have been not a little surprised could she have seen how Alfred received her missive . 
To be sure he sat in a cold stupor of dejection for a good half hour ; but at the end of that time he was himself again , lifted up his head , and said quietly , `` I 'll get the trial over , and my sanity established , as soon as possible : and then I 'll hire a yacht and hunt her husband till I find him . '' 
Having settled this little plan he looked out for Julia , whose sympathy he felt in need of after such a stern blow . 
She came out much later than usual that day , for , to tell the truth , her mother had detained her to show her Alfred 's letter , and her answer . 
Poor Alfred ! '' 
But , when Alfred came to her open-mouthed to complain of her mother 's cruelty , she stooped him at once , and asked him how he could go and write that foolish , unreasonable letter . 
Why had he not consulted her first ? 
said poor Alfred . 
`` Alfred , you are a high-minded Heathen , and talk Morality . 
`` Alfred , '' said Julia with dignity , `` these words are harsh , and -- forgive me for saying so -- they are coarse . 
Alfred was staggered and mortified too : they walked on in silence now . 
`` Alfred , '' said Julia at last , `` do not think me behind you in affection , but wiser , for once , and our best friend . 
I do think we had better see less of one another for a time , my poor Alfred . '' 
`` Thank you for that , dear Alfred : may you find some one who can love you more -- than -- I do . '' 
But he was stronger , because he was in a passion . 
You are an angel of beauty and goodness ; you will go to Heaven , and I shall go to the devil now for want of you ; but then you have no constancy nor true fidelity : so that has parted us , and now nothing is left me but to try and hate you . '' 
He turned furiously on his heel . 
`` God bless you , go where you will , '' faltered Julia . 
He questioned her and obtained a lame account ; she being far more bent on screening Alfred than on telling the truth . 
So he called on the other ; and found him disconsolate , and reading a Heathen philosopher for comfort , and finding none . 
Edward ushered in Alfred , saying , `` Here is the other Impetuosity ; '' and sagely retired for a few minutes : when he came back they were sitting hand in hand , he gazing on her , she inspecting the carpet . 
The delays of law were endless : Alfred 's defendant had already obtained one postponement of the trial on frivolous grounds . 
Similes are no arguments ; and perhaps that is why they convince people so : Alfred capitulated to the scissors and thread ; and only asked with abnormal humility to be allowed to taste the joys of reconciliation for two days : the third found him at Oxford ; he called on the head of his college to explain what had prevented his return to Exeter in the October term twelve months ago , and asked for rooms . 
`` So is false accusation , and so is false imprisonment , '' said Hardie bitterly . 
In short , he could give no answer ; must consult the other officers , and would convey the result by letter . 
Alfred 's pride was deeply mortified , not less by a certain cold repugnant manner than by the words . 
And there came over his heart a sickening feeling that he was now in the eyes of men an intellectual leper . 
Alfred retired , and learned from the porter that the college was not full . 
He sighed deeply , and the sickening feeling grew on him ; an ineradicable stigma seemed upon him , and Mrs. Dodd was no worse than the rest of the world then ; every mother in England would approve her resolution . 
He wandered about the scenes of his intellectual triumphs : he stood in the great square of the schools , a place ugly to unprejudiced eyes , but withal somewhat grand and inspiring , especially to scholars who have fought their keen , though bloodless , battles there . 
He looked at the windows and gilt inscription of the Schola Metaphysices , in which he had met the scholars of his day and defeated them for the Ireland . 
He wandered into the theatre , and eyed the rostrum , whence he had not mumbled , but recited , his Latin prize poem with more than one thunder of academic applause : thunder compared with which Drury Lane 's is a mere cracker . 
Hardie called , sent in his card , and was admitted to the principal 's study . 
He was about to explain who he was , when the doctor interrupted him , and told him politely he knew him by reputation . 
`` Tell me rather , '' said he , shrewdly , `` to what I owe this application from an undergraduate so distinguished as Mr. Hardie ? '' 
Then Alfred began to quake , and , instead of replying , put a hand suddenly before his face , and lost courage for one moment . 
`` Come , Mr. Hardie , '' said the principal , `` do n't be disconcerted : a fault regretted is half atoned ; and I am not disposed to be hard on the errors of youth ; I mean where there is merit to balance them . '' 
`` Sir , '' said Alfred , sadly , `` it is not a fault I have to acknowledge , but a misfortune . '' 
Alfred offered his certificates . 
`` Mr. Hardie , '' said he , `` this house shall always be open to good morals and good scholarship while I preside over it , and it shall be open to them all the more when they come to me dignified , and made sacred , by ` unmerited calamity . 
''' Now this fine speech , like Minerva herself , came from the head : Alfred was overcome by it to tears . 
It was no use doing things by halves ; so Dr. Alder gave Alfred a delightful set of rooms ; and made the Hall pleasant to him . 
This opinion , however , was anything but universal : and Alfred , finding the men of his own college suspected his sanity , and passed jokes behind his back , cut them all dead , and confined himself to his little Hall . 
There they petted him , and crowed about him , and betted on him for the schools as freely as if he was a colt the Hall was going to enter for the Derby . 
He read hard , and judiciously , but without his old confidence : he became anxious and doubtful ; he had seen so many first-rate men just miss a first class . 
The brilliant creature analysed all his Aristotelian treatises , and wrote the synopses clear with marginal references on great pasteboard cards three feet by two , and so kept the whole subject before his eye , till he obtained a singular mastery . 
Same system with the historians : nor did he disdain the use of coloured inks . 
Then the brilliant creature drew lists of all the hard words he encountered in his reading , especially in the common books , and read these lists till mastered . 
The stake was singularly heavy in his case , so he guarded every crevice . 
And at this period he was not so unhappy as he expected . 
Oh how his grave academic room with oaken panels did brighten , when her letter lay on the table . 
Alfred forgave him . 
And thus his whole life was changed , and for nearly twelve months -LRB- for Dr. Alder let him reside in the Hall through the vacation -RRB- he pursued the quiet tenor of a student 's life , interrupted at times by law ; but that is another topic . 
Mrs. Dodd was visibly shaken by that calamity which made her shrink with horror from the sight of Alfred Hardie . 
One day in the autumn , Alfred , being in town on law business , met what seemed the ghost of Mrs. Dodd in the streets . 
She saw him not ; her eye was on that ghastly face she had seen in her dreams . 
It flashed through his mind that she would not live long to part him and Julia . 
But he discouraged the ungenerous thought ; almost forgave her repugnance to himself , and felt it would be worse than useless to ask Julia to leave her mother , who was leaving her visibly . 
But her horror of him was anything but softened ; and she used to tell Dr. Sampson she thought the sight of that man would kill her now . 
Edward himself began to hope Alfred would turn his affections elsewhere . 
While Julia was writing letters to keep up Alfred 's heart , she was very sad herself . 
Moreover he had left her for Oxford but a very few days , when she received an anonymous letter : her first . 
The writer thought it only fair to warn her that Mr. Alfred Hardie was passionately fond of a lady in the asylum , and had offered her marriage . 
Then came an impetuous impulse to send it down to Alfred , and request him to transfer the other half of his heart to his lady of the asylum . 
Then she paused ; and remembered how much unjust suspicion had been levelled at him already . 
What right had she to insult him ? 
`` She wants to make use of me , '' said Julia ; `` it is plain Alfred does not care much for her ; or why does she come to me ? '' 
`` He is a decent body , miss , and between you and me , I think his complaint is , he do n't get quite enough to eat . '' 
` Well , ' says I , ` you 're good company , you are ; be you a lawyer ; for you examines us ; but you do n't tell us nothing : ' ye see , Miss , Jane she is that simple , she was telling him everything , and about Mr. Alfred 's lawsuit with his father and all . '' 
If you please , Miss , who is he ? 
Where does he bide ? 
Where does he come from ? 
Does he know Hardies ? '' 
`` Because I 'm much mistaken if he does n't . '' 
Then putting on a stolid look , she asked , `` Does he know your papa ? '' 
How should he ? '' 
If not , I will just remind them that even Edward Dodd was prepared to oppose the marriage of Julia and Alfred , if any serious ill should befal his father at sea , owing to Alfred 's imprudent interference in rescuing him from Drayton House . 
Many suits are fought and decided by the special pleaders , and so never come into court ; and , as a stiff encounter of this kind actually took place in Hardie v. Hardie , a word of prefatory explanation may be proper . 
So the writ being served by Plt 's attorney , and an appearance put in by Deft 's , the paper battle began by Alfred Hardie , through his attorney , serving on Deft 's attorney `` The Declaration . 
Alfred Hardie by John Compton his attorney sues Thomas Hardie For that the Deft . 
Mr. Compton conveyed a copy of this to Alfred , and said it was a beautiful declaration . 
`` What , '' said Alfred , `` is that all I have suffered at these miscreants ' hands ? 
`` This is a very nasty plea , '' said he to Alfred : `` a regular trap . 
Alfred was staggered . 
Defendant rejoined that the same was good in substance , and thus Hardie v. Hardie divided itself into two cases , a question of law for the judges , and an issue for the mixed tribunal loosely called a jury . 
Postponing the history of the legal question , I shall show how Messrs. Heathfield fought off the issue , and cooled the ardent Alfred and sickened him of law . 
Alfred groaned , but bore it patiently ; not so Dr. Sampson : he raged against secret tribunals : `` See how men deteriorate the moment they get out of the full light of publeecity . 
Mr. Compton delivered the briefs and fees , subpoenaed the witnesses , & c. , and Alfred came up with a good heart to get his stigma removed by twelve honest men in the light of day ; but first one case was taken out of its order and put before him , then another , till term wore near an end . 
Alfred cursed them all , and his own folly in believing that an alleged lunatic would be allowed fair play at Westminster or anywhere else . 
He wrote a long letter exposing with fearless irony the postponement swindle as it had been worked in Hardie v. Hardie : and wound up with this fiery peroration : `` This Englishman sues not merely for damages , but to recover lost rights dearer far than money , of which he says he has been unjustly robbed ; his right to walk in daylight on the soil of his native land without being seized , and tied up for life like a nigger or a dog ; his footing in society ; a chance to earn his bread ; and a place among mankind ; ay , among mankind ; for a lunatic is an animal in the law 's eye and society 's , and an alleged lunatic is a lunatic till a jury clears him . 
Reading this the water came into Alfred 's eyes : `` Ah , staunch friend , '' he said , `` how few are like you ! 
To the intellectual dwarfs who conspire with my oppressors , Hardie v. Hardie is but a family squabble . 
On this the judge , in spite of remonstrance , adjourned Hardie v. Hardie to the summer term . 
Do you think they can talk of nothing but Hardie v. Hardie ? '' 
Alfred left the court and hid himself , and the scalding tears forced their way down his cheeks at this heartless proceeding : to let all the witnesses come into court at a vast expense to the parties : and raise the cup of justice to the lips of the oppressed , and then pretend he knew a trial would last more than two days , and so shirk it . 
`` I 'd have made that a reason for sitting till midnight , '' said poor Alfred , `` not for prolonging a poor injured man 's agony four mortal months . '' 
He then prayed God earnestly for this great postponer 's death as the only event that could give him back an Englishman 's right of being tried by his peers , and so went down to Oxford brokenhearted . 
He sent the philanthropical Bite 's revelation of his private self to Alfred , who returned it with this single remark : `` Homunculi quanti sunt ! '' 
Mr. Hardie suppressed a start , and said nothing . 
Mr. Hardie eyed him and saw that his coat was rusty , and his hat napless : then Mr. Hardie smelt a beggar , and prepared to parry all attempts upon his purse . 
But I heard of the great lawsuit between Mr. Alfred and you , and I knew Mr. Heathfield was your solicitor ; so I watched at his place day after day : and at last you came . 
Now this sounded well on the surface , but below there was a subtle something Mr. Hardie did not like at all : but he took the cue , and said , `` My poor Skinner , do you think I would turn up my nose at a faithful old servant like you ? 
have a glass of wine with me , and tell me how you have been getting on . '' 
He went behind a screen and opened a door , and soon returned with a decanter , leaving the door open : now in the next room sat , unbeknown to Skinner , a young woman with white eye-lashes , sewing buttons on Mr. Hardie 's shirts . 
Mr. Hardie then asked Skinner carelessly , if he could do anything for him . 
`` So am I , between you and me , '' said Mr. Hardie , confidentially ; `` I do n't mind telling you ; those confounded Commissioners of Lunacy wrote to Alfred 's trustees , and I have been forced to replace a loan of five thousand pounds . 
Mr. Hardie shook his head sorrowfully , and said it was impossible . 
why Mrs. Dodd 's , or Mr. Alfred 's ; here 's the trial coming on , you know , and of course if they could get me to go on the box and tell all I know , or half what I know , why the judge and jury would say locking Mr. Alfred up for mad was a conspiracy . '' 
Mr. Hardie quaked internally : but he hid it grandly , and once more was a Spartan gnawed beneath his robe by this little fox : `` What , '' said he , sternly , `` after all I and mine have done for you and yours , would you be so base as to go and sell yourself to my enemies ? '' 
`` You have spoken plainly at last , '' said Mr. Hardie , grimly . 
Mr. Hardie reflected . 
`` Yes , '' said he , sternly : `` there 's no other course with such a lump of treachery and ingratitude as this . '' 
`` He is mad , Peggy , '' said Mr. Hardie , shrugging his shoulders . 
Mr. Hardie collapsed as if he had been a man inflated , and that touch had punctured him . 
said he . 
After a pause , Mr. Hardie made an effort and said contemptuously ; `` The receipt -LRB- if any -RRB- was flung into the dusthole and carried away . 
`` Show me the receipt and take my last shilling , you ungrateful vindictive viper , '' groaned Mr. Hardie . 
Mr. Hardie stood in the middle of the room motionless , scowling darkly . 
Peggy looked at him , and saw some dark and sinister resolve forming in his mind : she divined it , as such women can divine . 
She laid her hand on his arm , and said , softly , `` Richard , it 's not worth that . 
`` His blood be on his own head , '' he snarled . 
`` Mind your own business , '' said he , fiercely . 
She made no reply , but went softly and sat down again , and sewed the buttons on his shirts . 
Mr. Hardie wrote to Messrs. Heathfield to get Hardie v. Hardie tried as soon as possible . 
At last , when the coast seemed clear , Mr. Hardie emerged from a side street . 
Mr. Hardie said quietly , `` I must ask you , just for form , to show me you have the Receipt . '' 
`` You are wonderfully suspicious , '' said Mr. Hardie , trying to smile . 
`` Keep your distance a moment , sir , '' said he , and , on Mr. Hardie 's complying , took the Receipt out , and held it up under the lamp . 
Instantly Mr. Hardie drew a life-preserver , and sprang on him with a savage curse . 
And uttered a shriek of dismay ; for he was met by the long shiny barrel of a horse-pistol , that Skinner drew from his bosom , and levelled full in the haggard face that came at him . 
Mr. Hardie recoiled , crying , `` No ! 
said Mr. Hardie , piteously , retreating as Skinner marched on him with long extended pistol . 
`` It 's no use trying to deceive such a man as you , '' said Mr. Hardie , playing on his vanity . 
`` I 'll blow you to Mr. Alfred and Miss Dodd . '' 
Mr. Hardie raised the money on his scrip , and at great inconvenience ; for he was holding on five hundred thousand pounds ' worth of old Turkish Bonds over an unfavourable settling day , and wanted every shilling to pay his broker . 
If they did not rise by next settling day , he was a beggar . 
However , being now a desperate gamester , and throwing for his last stake , he borrowed this sum , and took it with a heavy heart to his appointment with Skinner . 
Mr. Hardie waited till one o'clock . 
Mr. Hardie went home hugging his five hundred pounds , but very uneasy . 
Next day he consulted Peggy . 
Mr. Heathfield , who had contrive to postpone Hardie v. Hardie six times in spite of Compton , could not hurry it on now with his co-operation . 
It hung fire from some cause or another a good fortnight : and in this fortnight Hardie senior endured the tortures of suspense . 
At last , there stood upon the paper for next day , a short case of disputed contract , and Hardie v. Hardie . 
The witnesses subpoenaed on either side in Hardie v. Hardie , began to arrive at ten o'clock , and a tall , stately man paraded Westminster Hall , to see if Skinner came with them ; all other anxieties had merged in this : for the counsel had assured him if nothing unexpected turned up , Thomas Hardie would have a verdict , or if not , the damages would be nominal . 
Instead of that , it was Serjeant Saunders that got maltreated : first one judge had a peck at him : then another : till they left him scarce a feather to fly with ; and , when Alfred 's counsel rose to reply , the judges stopped him , and the chief of the court , Alfred 's postponing enemy , delivered his judgment after this fashion : `` We are all of opinion that this plea is bad in law . 
Judgment was entered for the plaintiff ; and the defendant 's ingenious plea struck off the record ; and Hardie v. Hardie became the leading case . 
Alfred was not there : he was being examined in the schools ; and had plumply refused to leave a tribunal that named its day and kept it -- for Westminster , until his counsel should have actually opened the case . 
He did not believe trial by jury would ever be allowed him . 
In one thing both these sorely tried young people agreed , that there could be no marriage with Alfred now . 
But here again Julia entreated her brother not to be candid ; not to tell Alfred this at present . 
And so at last the court crier cried , with a loud voice , `` Hardie v. Hardie . '' 
Julia 's eyes roved very anxiously for Alfred , and up rose Mr. Garrow , and stated to the court the substance of the declaration ; `` To this , '' he said , `` three pleas have been pleaded : first , the plea of not guilty , which is a formal plea ; also another plea , which has been demurred to , and struck off the record ; and , lastly , that at the time of the alleged imprisonment the plaintiff was of unsound mind , and a fit person to be confined ; which is the issue now to be tried . '' 
Mr. Garrow then sat down , very tired of this preliminary work , and wondering when he should have the luck to conduct such a case as Hardie v. Hardie ; and leaned forward to be ready to prompt his senior , a portly counsel , whom Mr. Compton had retained because he was great at addressing juries , and no point of law could now arise in the case . 
Now , it is a good general 's policy to open a plaintiff 's case warily , and reserve your rhetoric for the reply ; and Mr. Colt always took this line when his manifold engagements compelled him , as in Hardie v. Hardie , to teach his case first and learn it afterwards . 
I will only add , that in the course of his opening he was on the edge of seven distinct blunders ; but Garrow watched him and always shot a whisper like a bullet just in time . 
And horror of horrors , Alfred did not appear . 
Call Alfred Hardie . 
And with this he sat down . 
An official called Alfred Hardie very loud ; he made no reply . 
Mr. Harrington was Alfred 's tutor at Eton , and deposed to his sanity there : he was not cross-examined . 
After him they went on step by step with a fresh witness for every six months , till they brought him close to the date of his incarceration : then they put in one of Julia 's witnesses , Peterson , who swore Alfred had talked to him like a sane person that very morning ; and repeated what had passed . 
Cross-examination only elicited that he and Alfre were no longer good friends , which rather strengthened the evidence . 
Mr. Saunders diminished the effect by eliciting that they had left on bad terms with Mr. Baker , and that Alfred had given them money since . 
But this was half cured on re-examination , by being set down to gratitude on Alfred 's part . 
And now the judge went to luncheon : and in came a telegraphic message to say Alfred was in the fast train coming up . 
They had hoped he would drop in before . 
And , when I tell you that Julia had consulted Mr. Green , and that he had instantly pronounced Mr. Barkington to be a man from Barkington who knew the truth about the fourteen thousand pounds , and that the said Green and his myrmidons were hunting Mr. Barkington like beagles , you will see that R. Hardie 's was no vain terror . 
On this Saunders shrugged his shoulders , rose , and cross-examined Alfred about the vision of one Captain Dodd he had seen , and about his suspicions of his father . 
The re-examination was of course very short , but telling ; for Alfred swore that Miss Julia Dodd had helped him to carry home the phantom of her father , and that Miss Dodd had a letter from her father to say that he was about to sail with the other phantom , the 14,000 l . 
Through the whole ordeal Alfred showed a certain flavour of Eton and Oxford that won all hearts . 
His replies were frank and honest , and under cross-examination he was no more to be irritated than if Saunders had been Harrow bowling at him , or the Robin sparring with him . 
Alfred replied with a grand air of good fellowship , `` Do not think so poorly of me as to suppose I feel aggrieved because you are an able advocate and do your duty to your client , sir . '' 
She said how long she had been acquainted with Alfred , and how his father was adverse , and her mother had thought it was because they did not pass for rich , and had told her they were rich , and with this she produced David 's letter , and she also swore to having met Alfred and others carrying her father in a swoon from his father 's very door . 
She deposed to Alfred 's sanity on her wedding eve , and on the day his recapture was attempted . 
She looked timidly round , and saw Alfred , and hesitated . 
-- What on earth has this to do with Hardie against Hardie ? 
This burst , intended for poor Alfred , not the court , baffled cross-examination and grammar and everything else . 
The judge , however , evinced a desire to trace the fourteen thousand pounds from Calcutta ; but Julia could not help him : that mysterious sum had been announced by letter as about to sail , and then no more was heard about it till Alfred accused his father of having it . 
It was to give to Alfred Hardie . '' 
Alfred , even this is of little moment compared with the world to come . 
Osmond was called , and proved Alfred 's headaches and pallor , and his own suspicions . 
Dr. Wycherley deposed to Alfred 's being insane and abnormally irritable , and under a pecuniary illusion , as stated in his certificate : and to his own vast experience . 
But the fire of cross-examination melted all his polysyllables into guess work and hearsay . 
It melted out of him that he , a stranger , had intruded on the young man 's privacy , and had burst into a most delicate topic , his disagreement with his father , and so had himself created the very irritation he had set down to madness . 
He also had to admit that he knew nothing about the 14,000 l. or the phantom , but had taken for granted the young man 's own father , who consulted him , was not telling him a deliberate and wicked falsehood . 
The surgeon of Silverton House was then sworn , and produced the case book ; and there stood the entries which had been so fatal to Alfred with the visiting justices . 
As for the self-starvation , Colt elicited that Alfred had eaten at six o'clock though not at two . 
`` And pray , sir , '' said he , contemptuously , to the witness , `` do you never stir out of a madhouse ? 
Saunders fought gallantly on , and put in Lawyer Crawford with his draft of the insane deed , as he called it , by which the erotic monomaniac Alfred divested himself of all his money in favour of the Dodds . 
Alfred Hardie and his friends made a little knot in the hall outside , and talked excitedly over the incidents of the trial . 
Now as they went along Alfred hung behind with Julia , and asked her what on earth she meant by swearing that it was all over between her and him . 
She shook her head sadly , and revealed to him with many prayers for forgiveness that she had been playing a part of late : that she had concealed her father 's death from him , and the fatal barrier interposed . 
But you are safe now , dear Alfred ; I am sure the judge sees through them ; for I have studied him for you . 
My Alfred will be cleared of this wicked slander , and happy with some one -- Ah ! '' 
`` Yes , I mean to be happy with some one , '' said Alfred . 
I swear it , by Him who made us both . '' 
`` I 'll do it too , '' said he . 
After uttering this doughty resolution he was quite silent , and they went sadly side by side ; so dear , so near , yet always some infernal thing or other coming between them . 
Ere the joy and the emotion had calmed themselves , Alfred Hardie stepped out and ran like a deer to Pembroke Street . 
But Alfred was beforehand with them : he went boldly up the stairs , and actually surprised Mrs. Dodd and Sampson together . 
`` Mr. Alfred Hardie is a gentleman at all events : he would not take this liberty with me , unless he had some excuse for it . '' 
`` You are wonderfully shrewd , mamma , '' said Alfred , admiringly . 
And with this , the truth must be told , the stately Mrs. Dodd did fawn upon Alfred with palms outstretched and piteous eyes , and certain cajoling arts of her sex . 
`` Well then , '' said Alfred , and was just going to tell her all , but caught sight of Sampson making the most expressive pantomime to him to be cautious . 
`` In fact , '' said Alfred , hesitating -LRB- for he was a wretched hand at a fib -RRB- , `` he saw him not a fortnight ago , on board ship . 
When she arose she said to Alfred , `` Bring this sailor to me . 
Alfred coloured . 
She plied him with questions , and he got more and more puzzled how to sustain his story . 
Mrs. Dodd sighed ; then suddenly turning on Alfred , asked him , `` Did the sailor tell you that ? '' 
Alfred was alarmed , and whispered the truth . 
The doctor sent him off to meet them , and recommended caution ; her nerves were in such a state a violent shock , even of happiness , might kill her . 
He had an interview with Mr. Compton that very night , and the lawyer wrote a letter to Mr. Hardie , saying nothing about the death of Skinner , but notifying that his client , Captain Dodd , had recovered from Noah Skinner the receipt No. 17 for 14,010 l. 12s . 
They all thought in their innocence that Hardie v. Hardie was now at an end . 
Captain Dodd could prove Alfred 's soi-disant illusion to be the simple truth . 
Dick Absolom was put in to prove that Alfred had put two sovereigns on the stumps for him to bowl if he could ; and after him the defendant , Mr. Thomas Hardie , a mild , benevolent , weak , gentleman was put into the box , and swore the boy 's father had come to him with story after story of the plaintiff 's madness , and the trouble it would get him into : and so he had done for the best . 
You can go down , Mr. Hardie . '' 
Richard Hardie suing Alfred Hardie for libel on this evidence might possibly obtain a verdict : for then the burden of proof would lie on Alfred Hardie : but here it lies on those who say he is insane . 
He would give Peggy his last shilling ; write a line to Alfred , another to Julia , assuring them he had no money , and they had killed him . 
Mr. Hardie put down the glass , and gave him short , sullen answers , in hopes he would then go away and let him proceed to business . 
And at last his visitor did rise and go . 
Mr. Hardie sat down with a sigh of relief to his fragrant beverage . 
Does n't the door open , and this bore poke in his head : `` Oh , I forgot to tell you : the Old Turks are going up to-day , like a shot . '' 
And with this he slammed the door again , and was off . 
The Old Turks going up ! 
He poured the poison back into the phial , and put it and the pistol , and all the letters , carefully into his pocket , and took a cab to the City . 
Mr. Hardie returned a gainer of 5000l . 
instead of a loser . 
Send your bill of costs in Hardie v. Hardie to me , Mr. Compton , '' said he , `` they shall not be taxed : you have lost enough by me already . '' 
And when Mr. Hardie drew out the notes and said , `` I should be grateful if you would forgive me the interest ; but for a great piece of good fortune on the Stock Exchange , I could never have paid the whole principal , '' he said , warmly , `` The interest should never be demanded through him . '' 
from Mr. Hardie . 
Love and Constancy had triumphed : and Julia and Alfred were to be married and go down to Albion Villa to prepare it for the whole party : tenants no more : Alfred had bought it . 
The Commissioners of Lunacy had protected his 20,000 l. zealously from the first : and his trustees had now paid the money over . 
Alfred , consulted by Mrs. Dodd , whose pet of pets he now was , as to the guests to be asked to the wedding breakfast , suggested `` None but the tried friends of our adversity . '' 
Of course Alfred consoled them ; reminded them it was only for a week , and carried off his lovely prize , who in the carriage soon dried her eyes upon his shoulder . 
`` They say that you and me are one , now , '' said she . 
`` That is a bargain , '' said he , and sealed it on the sweet lips that were murmuring Heaven so near him . 
They all lived together at Albion Villa , thanks to Alfred . 
He was by nature combative , and his warlike soul was roused at the current theory that you can not be happy under the same roof with your wife 's mother . 
`` That is cant , '' said he , to Mrs. Dodd ; `` let us you and I , trample on it hand in hand . '' 
`` If a young gentleman ca n't live happy with you , mamma , '' said he , kissing her , `` he is a little snob , that is all , and not fit to live at all . 
Item , no stranger could tell by Mrs. Dodd 's manner whether Edward or Alfred was her own son . 
Julia presented Alfred with a lovely boy : enter nurses , and the villa showed symptoms of bursting . 
Two months more , and Alfred and his wife and boy overflowed into the next villa . 
`` Miss Julee , '' said he , `` y ' are goen to maerry int ' a strange family -- Where th ' ijjit puts the jinny us In-til a madhus , '' which , like most of the droll things this man said , was true : for Soft Tommy and Alfred were the two intellectual extremes of the whole tribe of Hardies . 
But certainly the two features did meet remarkably in one of my characters -- Alfred Hardie . 
The day the bank broke , he had said he would pay the creditors . 
He now set to work to do it by degrees . 
He got the names and addresses , lived on half his income , and paid half away to those creditors : he even asked Julia to try and find Maxley out , and do something for him . 
`` But do n't let me see him , '' said he , trembling , `` for I could not answer for myself . '' 
Alfred 's was an uphill game ; but fortune favours the obstinate as well as the bold . 
One day , about four years after his marriage with Julia , being in London , he found a stately figure at the corner of a street , holding out his hand for alms , too dignified to ask it except by that mute and touching gesture . 
It was his father . 
Then , as truly noble natures must forgive the fallen , Alfred was touched to the heart , and thought of the days of his childhood , before temptation came . 
`` Father , '' said he , `` have you come to this ? '' 
`` Yes , Alfred , '' said Richard , composedly : `` I undertook too many speculations , especially in land and houses ; they seemed profitable at first too ; but now I am entirely hampered : if you would but relieve me of them , and give me a guinea a week to live on , I would forgive all your disobedient conduct . '' 
Finding his son so warm , and being himself as cool , Richard Hardie entrapped Alfred into an agreement , to board and lodge him , and pay him a guinea every Saturday at noon ; in return for this Alfred was to manage Richard 's property , and pocket the profits , if any . 
Alfred assented : the old man chuckled at his son 's simplicity , and made him sign a formal agreement to that effect . 
This done he used to sit brooding and miserable nearly all the week till guinea time came ; and then brightened up a bit . 
One day Alfred sent for an accountant to look after his father 's papers , and see if matters were really desperate . 
The accountant was not long at work , and told Alfred the accounts were perfectly clear , and kept in the most admirable order . 
`` The cash balance is 60,000 l. , '' said he : `` and many of the rents are due . 
`` Alfred was stupified . 
The accountant however soon convinced him by the figures it was so . 
Alfred went with the good news to his father . 
`` That is one side of the account ye fool , '' said he , `` think of the rates , the taxes , the outgoings . 
Then Alfred saw the truth , and wondered at his past obtuseness . 
His father was a monomaniac . 
`` It 's all you can do for him . '' 
Then Alfred employed an agent , and received a large income from his father 's land and houses , and another from his consols . 
But Alfred never spent a farthing of it on himself : all he took was for his father 's creditors . 
`` All justice is good , '' said he , `` even wild justice . '' 
Some of these unhappy creditors he found in the workhouse ; the Misses Lunley that survived were there , alas ! 
The name of Hardie began to rise again from the dust . 
`` I know it , '' said Alfred , softly . 
Alfred had been at him for a long time with offers of money , and failing these had lost his temper and forged a will , in his , Edward 's , favour . 
All this enabled the tenacious Alfred to carry out a deeply-cherished design . 
Hardie 's late bank had been made into a shop ; but it belonged to Mrs. Dodd ; he bought it of her , and set up the bank again , with Edward as managing partner . 
Hardie and Co. rose again , and soon wiped out the late disgraceful episode , and hooked on to the past centuries of honour and good credit . 
Alfred went in for politics ; stood for Barkington , was defeated by seventeen : took it as a matter of course ; told his friends he had never succeeded in anything at first ; nor been beaten in the end ; stood again , and became M. P. for Barkington , whence to dislodge him I pity any one who tries . 
