Verty -- for this is Verty the son , or adopted son of the old Indian woman , living in the pine hills to the west -- Verty carries in one hand a strange weapon , nothing less than a long cedar bow , and a sheaf of arrows ; in the other , which also holds his rein , the antlers of a stag , huge and branching in all directions ; around him circle two noble deer-hounds . 
Verty strongly resembles an amiable wild cat ; and when he sees Redbud , smiles more than ever . 
The girl runs toward him , laughing gaily -- `` Oh , Verty ! '' 
`` At home , '' says Verty , with his bright , but dreamy smile ; `` I 've got the antlers for the Squire , at last . '' 
And Verty throws the rein on the neck of his little horse , who stands perfectly still , and leaps lightly to the ground . 
`` Yes , '' says Verty , `` and there are his horns . 
`` I think I did n't live before I knew you ; but that was long years ago , '' says Verty , `` a very long time ago . '' 
And leaning for a moment on his bow , the forest boy gazes with his singular dreamy look on Redbud , who smiles . 
Verty assents readily to this , and speaking to his horse in some outlandish tongue , leaves him standing there , and accompanies Redbud toward the house . 
`` Because you do n't know Delaware , '' said Verty , smiling . 
`` I do n't complain of your not speaking Delaware , '' says Verty , `` for how could you , unless ma merehad taught you ? 
Verty nods , and replies -- `` In the old days , a long , long time ago . '' 
Then she raises her head and says -- `` How did you ever come to be the old Indian woman 's son , Verty ? '' 
Verty 's dreamy eyes fall from the sky , where a circling hawk had attracted his attention , to R & ebar ; dbud 's face . 
he says . 
cries Verty ; `` but how can you keep a poor Indian boy from his hunting ? 
Verty laughs , and takes an arrow . 
Redbud lays her hand upon his arm . 
Verty looks at the hand , then at her bright face , laughing . 
he says . 
says Verty , smiling . 
Verty smiled cheerfully at this recollection of past enjoyment , and added , with his dreamy look -- `` But I know what I like better even than hunting . 
Verty took off his white fur hat , and made the lady a low bow , and said -- `` How do you do , Miss Lavinia ? '' 
`` Thank you , Verty , '' said that lady , solemnly , `` very well . 
`` Oh , the Squire said he wanted them , '' Verty replied . 
Verty made no reply to this latter observation , but busied himself fixing up the antlers in the passage . 
Having arranged them to his satisfaction , he stated to Redbud that he thought the Squire would like them ; and then preferred a request that she would get her Bible , and read some to him . 
Miss Lavinia watched this proceeding with an elderly smile ; but Verty 's presence in some way did not seem agreeable to her . 
Redbud closed the book , and said : -- `` That is beautiful , is n't it , Verty ? '' 
`` So I can , but I like to hearit , '' said Verty ; `` so I am coming . '' 
Verty said , smiling . 
Verty started . 
`` Stop , Verty ! '' 
Verty gazed at Miss Lavinia with profound astonishment , and was about to reply , when a voice was heard at the door , and all turned round . 
He nodded curtly to Miss Lavinia , and took no notice whatever of either Redbud or Verty . 
`` Why , thank for the antlers , Verty ! '' 
And the Squire extended his hand to Verty , who took it with his old dreamy smile . 
`` I could have brought a common pair any day , '' he said , `` but I promised the best , and there they are . 
said Verty , smiling , `` what a chase I had ! 
and what a fight with him ! 
He nearly had me under him once , and the antlers you see there came near ploughing up my breast and letting out my heart 's blood ! 
They just grazed -- he tried to bite me -- but I had him by the horn with my left hand , and before a swallow could flap his wings , my knife was in his throat ! '' 
As Verty spoke , his eyes became brighter , his lips more smiling , and pushing his tangled curls back from his face , he bestowed his amiable glances even upon Miss Lavinia . 
Verty smiled again : -- he seemed to know Mr. Rushton well . 
`` It is my nature to love it , '' he said , `` just as white people love books and papers . '' 
said Verty . 
Verty looked . 
said Verty , laughing , and raising his shaggy head . 
there , '' added Mr. Rushton , seeing Verty was about to reply , `` do n't argue the question with me . 
Five minutes afterwards , Verty might have been seen taking his way back sadly , on his little animal , toward the hills , while Redbud was undergoing that most disagreeable of all ceremonies , a `` lecture , '' which lecture was delivered by Miss Lavinia , in her own private apartment , with a solemnity , which caused Redbud to class herself with the greatest criminals which the world had ever produced . 
The Squire seemed to regard his guest 's surliness with as little attention as Verty had displayed . 
`` A true woman in other ways is she , Rushton , '' he said , smiling -- `` I grant you she is a little severe and prim , and fond of taking her dignified portion of every conversation ; but she 's a faithful and high-toned woman . 
you will capture Verty , that roving bird ? '' 
he thinks he can do everything with that resolute will of his ; -- but the idea of chaining to a writing-desk that wild boy , Verty ! '' 
At such moments Verty dreamed -- the real world had disappeared -- perforce of that imagination given him by heaven , he entered calm and happy into the boundless universe of reverie and fancy . 
Verty 's hand would fall -- the bow would drop at his side -- he would fix his eyes upon the autumn woods , and smile . 
He went on thus through the glades of the forest , over the hills , and along the banks of little streams towards the west . 
Verty drank in these forest sounds , and the full glories of the Autumn , rapturously -- while he looked and listened , all his sadness passed away , and his wild Indian nature made him happy there , in the heart of the woods . 
And a sigh issued from Verty 's lips , which betrayed the importance he attached to Redbud 's departure . 
Poor Verty ! 
And Verty sighed piteously . 
And putting spurs to Cloud , Verty scoured through the pine hills , and in an hour drew near his home . 
Verty carefully attended to his horse , and then ascended the hill toward the hut , from whose chimney a delicate smoke ascended . 
He was met at the door by an old Indian woman , who seemed to have reached the age of three-score at least . 
Verty approached her with a bright smile , and taking her hand in his own , placed it upon his head ; then saying something in the Delaware tongue , he entered the hut . 
This had caused the smoke ; and as Verty entered , the old woman had been turning the slices . 
In ten minutes the venison was done , and Verty and his mother ate in silence -- Verty not forgetting his dogs , who growled and contended for the pieces , and then slept upon the rude pine floor . 
`` Verty has been asleep and dreamed something , '' she said , calmly , in the Delaware tongue . 
`` No , ma mere , Verty has been wide awake , '' said the boy , in the same language . 
`` Then the winds have been talking to him . '' 
`` Hum , '' said Verty . 
`` No , no , '' said Verty , `` I assure you , ma mere , I 'm quite happy . '' 
And having made this declaration , Verty stopped smoking and sighed . 
`` Has Verty seen the dove ? '' 
Verty hesitated , then said , with an overshadowed brow -- `` No , no , ma mere -- I really believe he did not . '' 
Verty sighed . 
`` No ; but she is going away , '' he said , `` and Miss Lavinia would not tell me where . 
And Verty betook himself to gazing with shadowy eyes upon the sky . 
added Verty after a pause -- `` Going away ! '' 
And he sighed . 
he murmured . 
`` Non non , '' said Verty , smiling ; `` but I am a little unwell , ma mere.All the way coming along , I felt my breast weighed down -- my heart was oppressed . 
even Longears knows I 'm not the Verty of the old time . '' 
Longears , who was standing at the door in a contemplative attitude , fancied that his master called him , and , coming up , licked Verty 's hand affectionately . 
said Verty , caressing him , `` lie down at my feet . '' 
`` Now , ma mere , '' Verty said , with his habitual smile , `` we have been calling for the clouds to come up , and shut out the sun ; let us call for the sunlight next . 
You know I am your Verty , and every day as I grow , I get able to do more for you . 
-- happy Verty ! '' 
And taking the old woman 's hand , Verty kissed it . 
Then , leaning back , he reached through the window , and took down a rude violin , and began to play an old air of the border , accompanying the tune with a low chant , in the Indian fashion . 
The old woman looked at him for some moments with great affection , a sad smile lighting up her aged features ; then saying in a low tone , as if to herself , `` good Verty ! '' 
Verty played for some time longer . 
Tired at last of his violin , he laid it down , and with his eyes fixed upon the sand at his feet , began to dream . 
As he mused , his large twilight eyes slowly drooped their long lashes , which rested finally on the ruddy cheek . 
For some moments , Verty amused himself tracing figures on the sand near Longears ' nose , causing that intelligent animal to growl in his sleep , and fight imaginary foes with his paws . 
Verty reclined more and more in his wicker seat ; the scenes and images of the day were mingled together in his mind , and became a dim wrack of cloud ; his tangled hair shaded his face from the sun ; and , overcome by weariness , the boy sank back , smiling even in his sleep . 
And to these Verty had added , with melancholy and listless smiles , the further letters : GOING TO -- Unfortunately he was compelled to leave the remainder of the sentence unwritten . 
`` The Indian boy Verty -- you have seen him , I know . '' 
On the road he met Verty strolling along disconsolately . 
On Monday morning Verty rode into the town , and dismounted at the door of the law office . 
It was about ten o'clock in the morning , and Verty , who rode home every evening , had just come in and had taken his seat at the desk in the corner appropriated to him , beneath the small dingy window , looking out upon the yard . 
Longears was stretched at his feet . 
Verty 's face was more dreamy and thoughtful than ever . 
The dim smile still dwelt upon his lips , and though his countenance had as much of the forest Indian character as ever , there was a languor about the drooping eyelids , with their long lashes , and a stoop in the usually erect neck , which betrayed the existence in the boy 's mind of some ever-present sadness . 
At times Verty would stretch out his hand , and , taking his cedar bow from a chair , bend it thoughtfully , and utter the low Indian murmur , which has been represented by the letters , `` ough , '' so unsuccessfully ; then he would allow the weapon to slide from his nerveless hand -- his head would droop -- the dim dreamy smile would light up his features for an instant , and he would lean upon the desk and ponder -- his countenance half enveloped by the long tangled chestnut hair which still flowed upon his shoulders in wild luxuriance . 
Tired of thinking at last , Verty sighed , and took up his pen . 
For some moments it glided slowly over the law parchment , and the contortions of Verty 's face betrayed the terrible effort necessary for him to make in copying . 
Then his eyes no longer sought the paper to be transcribed -- his face lit up for a moment , and his pen moved faster . 
Finally , he rose erect , and surveyed the sheet , which he had been writing upon , with great interest . 
Just beneath the words , `` messuages , tenements , water courses , and all that doth thereunto pertain , '' Verty had made a charming sketch of a wild-fowl , with expanded wings , falling from the empyrean , with an arrow through his breast . 
For some moments , the drawing afforded Verty much gratification : it finally , however , lost its interest , and the boy leaned his head upon his hand , and gazed through the window upon the waving trees which overshadowed the rear of the building . 
Then his eyes slowly drooped -- the dusky lashes moved tremulously -- the head declined -- and in five minutes Verty was asleep , resting his forehead on his folded arms . 
Verty replied by a snore . 
And Mr. Roundjacket hurled his ruler at Verty 's desk , with the accuracy of an experienced hand . 
murmured Verty , who woke like a bird upon the boughs , `` what was that , ma mere ? '' 
Verty rose erect . 
said Verty . 
Verty only smiled . 
Roundjacket turned over the sheet of paper upon which Verty 's design had been made ; and then turned to reply to the words addressed to him . 
`` And what do you find to correct in Mr. Verty ? '' 
And Mr. Roundjacket , inserting one thumb into the pocket of his long waistcoat , pointed with the ruler to Verty 's costume . 
he said . 
And Mr. Roundjacket indicated the garments which reached to Verty 's knees , with the end of his ruler . 
`` Well , '' said Mr. Rushton , smiling , `` I should think you might have them changed without troubling me , Verty . '' 
said Verty . 
Verty smiled . 
`` With pleasure , '' said Mr. Roundjacket , who had evidently taken a great liking to Verty ; `` what sort of clothes ? '' 
Verty was gazing through the window and dreaming . 
Verty turned round , and interrogated Mr. Roundjacket with a look . 
Verty also was silent . 
`` All countries , '' said the poetical gentleman , with a preparatory flourish of his ruler , `` have possessed localities famous in the history of literature : -- as Athens , in Greece ; the Island of Scio , where Homer first saw the light ; and Stratford , where Shakspeare appeared . 
Now , what is the irresistible conclu-sion we arrive at from a view of these incontestable facts , '' observed Mr. Roundjacket , endeavoring to eatch Verty 's wandering eye ; `` why , my young friend , that Winchester here is to be the celebrated locality -- that the great poet of Virginia will here arise ! 
said Verty , smiling , and roused from his abstraction by the silence . 
Let me read you a small portion of a poem written upon those subjects by a very humble poet -- are you listening , Mr. Verty ? '' 
Verty aroused himself , and smiled upon Mr. Roundjacket -- a proceeding which seemed to be eminetly satisfactory to that gentleman . 
Verty preserved a profound and respectful silence , which flattered the poet hugely . 
Verty was asleep . 
Mr.Roundjacket 's illusions were all dissipated -- the attentive listener was a sleeping listener -- his poem , dreadful to think of , had absolntely lulled Verty to slumber . 
He caught Verty by the shoulder and shook him . 
Fortunately , Verty woke up before the combat commenced ; and seeing the hound standing in a threatening attitude , he ordered him to lie down . 
Then commenced , on the part of Mr. Roundjacket , an eloquent and animated remonstrance with Verty on the impropriety of that proceeding which he had just been guilty of . 
Verty explained that he had been hunting throughout the preceding night -- setting traps , and tramping over hill and through dale -- and thus he had been overcome by drowsiness . 
He smiled with great good nature upon Mr. Roundjacket , as he uttered this simple excuse , and so winning was the careless sunshine of his countenance , that honest Roundjacket , uttering an expiring grumble , declared that nothing was more natural than his drowsiness . 
In future , he said , he would select those seasons when his -- Verty 's -- senses were bright and wide-awake ; and he begged the young man not to fear a repetition of what he might have heard -- there were fifteen more cantos , all of which he would read , slowly and carefully explaining , as he went along , any difficulties . 
Verty received this announcement with great good humor , and then began tracing over his paper , listlessly , the word `` Redbud . '' 
That word had been the key-note of his mind throughout the morning -- that was the real secret of his abstraction . 
Miss Lavinia had informed him on that morning , when she had dismissed him from Apple Orchard , that Redbud was going away for the purpose of being educated ; and that he , Verty , would act very incorrectly if he asked any one whither Redbud was going . 
Therefore was it that Verty had become a lawyer 's clerk ; and it was the recollection of these causes of sadness which had made the boy so dull and languid . 
After receiving the assurance of Roundjacket 's pardon , Verty , as we have said , began serawling over the copy of the deed he was making the name of Redbud . 
Verty nodded . 
`` Yes , '' sighed Verty . 
asked Verty , `` what is that ? '' 
said Verty , with an inquiring look . 
Verty looked bewildered , but smiled . 
Mr. Roundjacket was astounded at finding such savage ignorance in his companion ; -- he revolved in his mind the means of enlightening Verty , in vain . 
`` Yes , '' replied Verty . 
Verty looked interested . 
Verty replied that this was very kind in Mr. Roundjacket , and then rising , stretched himself , and took up his bow . 
`` I feel very tired , '' he said , `` I wish I was in the woods . '' 
And Verty turned his back on Mr. Roundjacket , strolled to the door , and leaning on his bow , gazed languidly out upon the busy street . 
Verty looked even wilder than ever , from the contrast , and his long bow , and rugged dress , and drooping hat of fur , would have induced the passers-by to take him for an Indian , but for the curling hair and the un-Indian face . 
Verty gazed up into the sky and mused -- the full sunlight of the bright October morning falling in a flood upon his wild accountrements . 
Verty had always loved the clouds ; he had dreamed of Redbud often , while gazing on them ; and now he smiled , and felt brighter as he looked . 
His forest instincts returned , and , bending his bow , he carelessly fitted an arrow upon the leather string . 
What should he shoot at ? 
There was a very handsome fish upon a neighboring belfry , which was veering in the wind ; and this glittering object seemed to Verty an excellent mark . 
As he was about to take aim , however , his quick eye caught sight of a far speck in the blue sky ; and he lowered his bow again . 
Placing one hand above his eyes , he raised his head , and fixed his penetrating gaze upon the white speck , which rapidly increased in size as it drew nearer . 
Verty selected his best arrow , and placing it on the string , waited until the air-sailer came within striking distance . 
Then drawing the arrow to its head , he let it fly at the bird , whose ruffled breast presented an excellent mark . 
The slender shaft ascended like a flash of light into the air -- struck the bird in full flight ; and , tumbling headlong , the fowl fell toward Verty , who , with hair thrown back , and outstretched arms , ran to catch it . 
Verty caught the pigeon , and drew the arrow from its wing , which was all stained with blood . 
Poor Verty sighed , and his eyes drooped as he thought of the girl . 
Suddenly , however , a small scroll of yellow paper encircling the pigeon 's neck , and concealed before by the rufiled plumage , caught his eye . 
he said ; `` why , this is somebody 's pet-pigeon I have shot ! '' 
And tearing off the scroll , Verty read these words , written in a delicate , running-hand : `` I am Miss Redbud 's pigeon ; and Fanny gave me to her ! '' 
Verty remained for a moment motionless -- his eyes expanded till they resembled two rising moons ; -- `` I am Miss Redbud 's pigeon ! '' 
Then Redbud was somewhere in the neighborhood of the town -- she had not gone far out into the wide , unknown world -- this pigeon might direct him ; -- Verty found a thousand thoughts rushing through his mind , like so many deer in a herd , jostling each other , and entangling their horns . 
Surely , it would not be wrong for him to embrace this chance of discovering Redbud 's residence -- a chance which seemed to have been afforded him by some unseen power . 
Why should he not keep the bird until its wing was healed , and then observe the direction of its flight ? 
Why not thus find the abode of one in whose society so much of his happiness consisted ? 
Was there any thing wrong in it -- would any one blame him ? 
These were the questions which Verty asked himself , standing in the October sunshine , and holding the wounded pigeon to his breast . 
He decided , to his own perfect satisfaction , that he had the full right to do as he wished ; and then he re-entered the office . 
Verty sat down at his desk ; betook himself to copying , having rejected the sketch-ornamented sheet ; and by evening had done a very fair day 's work . 
Then he put on his hat , placed the wounded pigeon in his bosom , and , mounting his horse , set forward toward the hills . 
`` In three days , '' he said , `` you will be cured , pretty pigeon , and then I will let you go ; and it will be hard if I do n't follow your flight , and find out where your mistress lives . 
And Verty smiled , and went on with a lighter heart than he had possessed for many a day . 
`` Ma mere , '' said Verty , standing at the door of the old Indian woman 's lodge , `` I think this pretty pigeon is well . 
Verty , it will be seen , had concealed nothing from his mother ; indeed , he never concealed anything from anybody . 
He had told her quite simply that he wanted to see Redbud again ; that they would n't tell him where she was ; and that the pigeon would enable him to find her . 
Verty now stood with one hand on Cloud 's mane , in the early morning , ready to set forth . 
The pigeon was perched upon his left hand , secured to Verty 's arm by a ribbon tied around one of its feet . 
This ribbon had been given him by Redbud . 
In the other hand he carried his rifle , for some days disused -- at his feet lay Longears and Wolf , in vain pleading with down-cast eyes for permission to accompany him . 
said Verty , `` and look at Cloud , ma mere ! 
Verty said . 
And bounding lightly into the saddle -- a movement which caused the pigeon to open and flutter its wings -- Verty smiled on the old woman , placed his hand on his breast , and touched Cloud with his heel . 
Cloud shook his head , and set forward cheerfully , Longears galloping by his master 's side . 
Verty drank in the Autumn loveliness with that delight which he always experienced in the fresh pure hills , with the mountain winds around him . 
As he went on along the narrow bridle path , under the magnificent boughts , his countenance was beighter and more joyous , and he broke once or twice into a song . 
Suddenly , while he was humming thus in a low tune , to himself , a still `` croak ! '' 
attracted his attention , and he stopped abruptly . 
he murmured , `` that 's a good big gobbler , and I 'll see about him ! '' 
And Verty cautiously dismounted , and with one foot raised , listened for a repetition of the sound . 
It was not long before the turkey 's call was again heard from a thick copse on his left . 
The young hunter turned , and imprisoning Cloud 's nostril in his nervous grasp , looked fixedly into that intelligent animal 's eyes . 
Cloud seemed to understand very well -- nodded his head -- drew a long breath -- and stood like a statue . 
Verty then placed his foot upon Longears , made a gesture with his hand , and Longears showed himself equally docile . 
He laid down , and without moving , followed his master with his eyes , and listened . 
Verty erept noiselessly , without treading on a leaf or a twig , to a neighboring thicket , from which the horse and dog were not visible . 
He then lay down in the bushy top of a fallen pine , and without the assistance of any `` call , '' such as hunters generally make use of , uttered the low , cautious cry of the wild turkey . 
This he repeated a number of times , and then remained still . 
Verty cocked his rifle , and uttered the low croak again . 
This seemed to remove any fears which the turkey had -- he replied to it , and advanced toward Verty 's impromptu `` blind . '' 
A streak of sunlight through the boughs fell on his burnished neck and brilliant head , and he paused again . 
Verty ran his eye along the barrel -- covered the turkey bashaw 's head , and fired . 
The ball passed through the fowl 's throat , and he fell back with violent flutterings -- no longer anything but the memory of a living turkey . 
`` Very well , '' said Verty , smoothing the head of his pigeon , which had been greatly startled by the explosion , `` I can shoot better than that -- I ought to have hit your eye , Monsieur . '' 
And going to the spot he took up the turkey , and then returned to Cloud , who , with Longears at his feet , remained perfectly quiet . 
Verty tied the turkey to his saddle-bow , and went on laughing . 
He made his entry into Winchester in this extremely lawyer-like guise ; that is to say , in moccasins and leggins , with a rifle in one hand , a pigeon on the wrist of the other , and a turkey dangling at his horse 's side . 
Cloud , in order to complete the picture , was shaggier than ever , and Verty himself had never possessed so many tangled curls . 
His shoulders were positively covered with them . 
Mr. Roundjacket was standing at the door of the office , and he greeted Verty with a loud laugh . 
Verty smiled , and let Cloud dip his muzzle into the trough of a pump which stood by the door , venerable-looking and ironhandled , like all parish pumps . 
said Verty , who was not accustomed to paraphrase . 
Then turning his eyes toward the pigeon , he said : `` Pretty fellow ! 
And Verty , for the first time , seemed to realize the fact , that he could see her again . 
His countenance became brilliant -- his eyes were filled with light -- his lips wreathed with smiles . 
Verty was gnawing off the ribbon from the pigeon 's foot , tied too tightly ; he could not undo it , and having no knife , used his sharp white teeth for the purpose . 
And Mr. Roundjacket staggered back , and almost fell ; the explanation of which circumstance was , that Verty had untied the pigeon , thrown it off from his wrist like a hawk , and darted down the street like lightning , first , however , abruptly entrusting his rifle to Mr. Roundjacket , with the request that that gentleman would `` please hold it ! '' 
The rifle had fallen upon Mr. Roundjacket 's foot , then against Mr. Roundjacket 's person , and the poet disappeared within the office , clutching his enemy , that is to say , the gun , and half determined to send a ball after the flying Verty . 
Let us return to Verty . 
Verty fixed his eyes on the bird , gave Cloud the rein , and passed through the streets of the good town of Winchester like the Wild Huntsman , or other impersonation of the German Legends . 
and the general impression seemed to be , that a new inroad of the border savages was about to take place -- Verty being regarded as the avant courier of the band . 
He soon passed out of the town , however , and with his eyes fixed on the fast-disappearing pigeon , sped on as rapidly as before . 
Cloud flew over the green turf of the common he was traversing , like the shadow of that natural phenomenon from which he derived his name . 
He seemed to enjoy the race , and neighed for pleasure . 
The pigeon sank down toward the horizon -- seemed about to disappear -- Verty uttered a deep sigh . 
But no : the bird suddenly pauses , drops from the clouds , and settles upon the roof of a house crowning a grassy hill , which hill was distant from Verty not more than a quarter of a mile . 
A smile of delight passed over Verty 's countenance . 
He had found Redbud -- she was there ! 
There was no longer any necessity for such headlong speed -- he could go on slowly now -- the goal was near , and would not fly as he approached . 
Verty drew near the house , which was a tall , wooden structure , embowered in trees , and carefully reconnoitered with true hunts-man-like precision . 
He thought that the place looked like the residence of Redbud -- it was so bright , and sunny , and cheerful . 
On the roof sat the returned pigeon , cooing , and pluming his wings among his fellows . 
Justas Verty was making this latter observation , his smiling eyes fixed on the mansion before him , he heard a voice at his feet , so to speak , which had the effect of bringing him to earth once more , and this voice said , loftily -- `` You seem to be interested , sir -- handsome house , sir -- very handsome house , sir -- also the occupants thereof . '' 
Verty looked , and descried a gentleman of very odd appearance , who was looking at him intently . 
This was the figure which now stood before Verty , and caused that young man to lower his eyes from the roof and the pigeons . 
Verty looked at the gentleman for a moment , and smiled . 
said Verty . 
Verty nodded . 
Verty said , surveying the remarkable edifice . 
`` Yes , '' said Verty . 
said Verty . 
`` Plainly , '' said Verty . 
said Verty . 
`` Yes , '' said Verty . 
`` No , it ai n't for her , '' said Verty , smiling . 
said Verty . 
And Mr. Jinks kissed his hand , and grimaced at a young lady who appeared at the gate , with a book in her hand . 
Vertythrew himself from his horse , and ran forward toward Redbud with an expression of so much joy , that even Longears perceived it ; and , in the excess of his satisfaction , reared up on Mr. Jinks , claiming his sympathy . 
Verty did not hear him , however -- he was at the gate with Redbud . 
he cried , `` how glad I am to see you ! 
`` Never mind , '' said Verty ; `` I 'm so glad to see you , that I wo n't quarrel . '' 
And he pressed the little hand which he held with such ardor , that Redbud blushed more than ever . 
But she had searcely uttered a word -- searcely smiled on him . 
Poor Verty 's face began to be overclouded . 
That is not a very difficult question to us , however much it might have puzzled Verty . 
It meant that the `` lecture '' of this great female philosopher had produced its effect , -- that Miss Redbud had waked to a consciousness of the fact , that she was a `` young lady , '' and that her demeanor toward Verty was improper . 
Cousin Lavinia saw a decided impropriety in her meeting Verty with a bright smile , and giving him her hand , and saying , in her frank , affectionate voice : `` Oh ! 
Of course , consin Lavinia knew all about it ; and it was very dreadful in her to have been treating Verty with so little ceremony -- very , very dreadful . 
So , innocence listened to worldly wisdom , and pride overturned simplicity ; and , in consequence , our friend Verty found himself opposite a young lady who blushed , and exhibited a most unaccountable constraint , and only gave him the tips of her fingers , when he was ready for , and expected , the most enthusiastic greeting . 
Strephon is never so devoted as when Chloe has been removed from him -- when his glances seek for her in vain on the well-remembered lawn . 
Redbud did not discover how much she loved Verty , until she was gone from him , and the fresh music of his laughter was no longer in her ears . 
Then she found that he held a very different place in her heart from what she had supposed ; -- or rather , to speak more accurately , she did not reflect in the least upon the matter , but only felt that he was not there near her , and that she was not happy . 
This will explain the prim little ladylike air of bashfulness and constraint which Redbud exhibited , when her eyes fell on Verty , and the coolness with which she gave him her hand . 
The old things had passed away -- Verty could be the boy-playmate no more , however much it grieved her . 
So , to Strephon 's request to be informed why she came thither , without telling him , Chloe replied with a blush : `` Oh , I came to school -- sir , '' she was about to add , but did not . 
`` Well , '' Verty went on , `` I am glad I found you ; for , Redbud , you ca n't tell how I 've been feeling , ever since you went away . 
`` Sometimes , '' said Verty , smiling , `` I would try and get it away by drawing in my breath , and ever so long ; but I could ` nt , '' he added , shaking his head ; `` I do n't know what it means . '' 
`` Well , well , '' Verty went on , `` I begin to feel better now , since I 've seen you ; and , I think , I 'll do better in my office work . '' 
Verty replied ; `` I 'm in Mr. Rushton 's office now , and I 'm a lawyer 's clerk ; -- that 's what they call it , I believe . '' 
Redbud returned his bright smile . 
Her eye wandered toward Cloud , who stood perfectly still -- the turkey , which had not been removed , yet dangling at his saddle-bow . 
Verty followed the young girl 's glance , and smiled . 
`` I know what you are looking at , '' he said ; `` you are looking at that wild turkey , and thinking that I am a poor sort of a lawyer , with such a book to read out of . 
Redbud laughed ; her coolness could not last in Verty 's presence ; his fresh voice , so full of their old happy times , made her a child again . 
`` You shot him , Verty ? '' 
Verty experienced , -- he knew not why , -- a feeling of extreme delight , on hearing his name from her lips . 
`` Yes , I did so , Redbud , '' he replied , confidentially , `` and I cured him , too . 
`` Oh , Verty ! 
And Verty took from his bosom the yellow scroll , and placed it in Redbud 's hand . 
`` I had him , '' said Verty . 
Verty nodded . 
Verty , in an absent way , took Miss Redbud 's hand , and was guilty of the bad taste of squeezing it . 
Verty looked astounded . 
In the midst of his confusion a martial `` hem ! '' 
`` Young man , '' she said to Verty , `` what 's the price of that turkey ? '' 
Verty was looking at Redbud , and only knew that the awful Mrs. Scowley had addressed him , from Redbud 's whispering to him . 
he said . 
You mountain people , '' she added , looking at Verty 's wild costume , `` can get along with very little money . 
Verty on that occasion did the only artful thing which he ever accomplished -- but what will not a lover do ? 
`` You may have him , '' said Verty , `` I do n't want him . '' 
said Mrs. Scowley , gazing at Verty with some astonishment -- `` what writing ? '' 
`` I 'm in Mr. Rushton 's office , and I write , '' Verty replied , `` but I do n't like it much . '' 
Mrs. Scowley for a moment endeavored to look Verty out of countenance , but finding that the young man seemed to have no consciousness of the fact , and that he returned her gaze with friendly interest , the ogress uttered a sound between a snort and a cough , and said : -- `` Then you did ` nt come to sell the turkey ? '' 
`` I came to see Redbud , '' replied Verty ; `` you know , ma'am , that we know each other very well ; I thought I 'd come . '' 
And Verty smiled . 
Mrs. Scowley was completely puzzled -- she had never before seen a gentleman of Verty 's candor , and could find no words to reply . 
As she gazed , her feeling relented more and more -- Verty grew still more amiable in her eyes -- the turkey evidently weighed more than twenty pounds . 
said Verty , `` I 'm very fond of apples -- but Redbud may have some , too ? '' 
he added , smiling innocently . 
`` Just a few , you know , ma'am , '' said Verty , with his bright smile . 
Poor Redbud 's resolutions all melted -- Verty 's voice did it all -- she blushed and nodded , and said yes , she should like very much to have some apples . 
said Verty . 
Itwas a beautiful garden which Verty and Redbud entered , hand in hand ; -- one of those old pleasure-grounds which , with their grass and flowers , and long-armed trees , laden with fruit or blossoms , afford such a grateful retreat to the weary or the sorrowful . 
We said that Verty and Redbud entered , hand in hand , and this may serve to show that the young pupil of Miss Lavinia had not profited much by the lessons of her mentor . 
True , she did not run on , as the phrase is , with Verty , as in the old days -- her manner had far more softness in it -- she was more quiet and reserved ; but still , those constrained , restless looks were gone , and when Verty laughed , the winning smile came to the little face ; and the small hand which he had taken was suffered to rest quietly in his own . 
They strolled under the trees , and Verty picked up some of the long yellow-rinded apples , which lay upon the ground under the trees , and offered them to Redbud . 
`` I did n't want the apples , '' he said , smiling , `` I wanted to see you , Redbud , for I 've not felt right since you went away . 
Redbud returned his frank smile , and said , with a delicious little prim expression : `` Did you want to see me very much , Verty ? '' 
said Verty , going through the same ceremony ; `` that 's one thing I missed . '' 
said Verty . 
`` I mean you are very friendly to me , Verty , '' said Redbud , with a bright look at his frank face . 
And Verty ran and gathered an armful of primroses , marigolds , and golden rods ; some late roses , too , and so returned to Redbud . 
Verty smiled . 
`` Yes , you do , '' he said , `` for you are my queen . '' 
And he went and sat down upon the trellised bench , and began weaving a wreath of the delicate yellow autumn primroses and other flowers . 
Redbud sat down and watched him . 
Placed thus , they presented a simgular contrast , and , together , formed a picture , not wanting in a wild interest -- Verty , clothed in his forest costume of fur and beads , his long , profusely-curling hair hanging upon his shoulders , and his swarthy cheeks , round , and reddened with health , presented rather the appearance of an Indian than an Anglo-Saxon -- a handsome wild animal rather than a pleasant young man . 
As she followed Verty 's movements , the frank little face wore a very pleasant smile , and at times she would pick up and hand to him a leaf or a bud , which attention he rewarded with a smile in return . 
At last the wreath was finished , and , rising up , Verty placed it on Redbud 's forehead . 
`` How nicely it fits , '' he said ; `` who would have imagined that my awkward fingers could have done it ? '' 
`` I am very much obliged to you , Verty , '' she said ; `` it was very good in you to make this for me -- though I do n't deserve it . '' 
So saying , Verty smiled , and lay down at the feet of Redbud , leaning on the trellised bench , and looking up into that young lady 's eyes . 
he said , after a silence of some moments , `` so nice and pretty , Redbud ! '' 
`` Far from it , Verty . '' 
said Verty , `` I should like to know how ! 
Verty reflected . 
he said , at length . 
well , I suppose it is , '' Verty replied , thoughtfully ; `` a real lady could ` nt get along without knowing the minuet , and all that . 
Redbud returned his frank look , and said : `` I 'm very sorry , Verty ; but never mind -- you read your Bible , do n't you ? '' 
`` Yes , '' Verty replied , `` I promised you ; and I read all about Joseph , and Nimrod , who was a hunter , and other people . '' 
`` I wish you would read in that , too , Verty . '' 
And Redbud , with all the laughter gone away from her countenance , regarded Verty with her tender , earnest eyes , full of kindness and sincerity . 
`` I do , '' Verty replied , `` and I like it better . 
`` I know you will , '' said the kind eyes , plainly , and Verty smiled . 
`` I 'm coming to see you very often here , '' he said , smiling , `` and I 'm going to do my work down at the office -- that old lady will let me come to see you , I know . '' 
cried Verty , rising half up , and resting on his hand , `` why , what 's the harm ? '' 
Verty remained silent for some moments , then said : `` Well , I will ! 
`` That 's right , Verty , '' replied the young girl , smiling hopefully , `` and I think you will get cousin Lavinia to let you come . 
Verty smiled , then looking at his companion , said : `` What made you so cold to me when I came at first ? 
Verty and Redbud could not help overhearing this conversation . 
-LRB- `` That 's old Scowley 's sister , he said so , '' whispered Verty . -RRB- 
whispered Verty , laughing . -RRB- 
-- '' `` But , Verty -- '' `` Just a minute , Redbud . '' -RRB- 
`` Should not such a lovely creature as yourself , '' continued the enthusiastic Jinks , `` choose one to -- '' Redbud rose quickly , and said , blushing and laughing : -- `` Oh , come , Verty ! '' 
said Verty , `` I do believe -- '' `` No , no , no ! '' 
And she went out of the arbor , followed by Verty , who said , `` I 'm glad courting ai n't wrong ; I think I should like to court you , Redbud . '' 
Redbud made no reply to this innocent speech of Mr. Verty , but walked on . 
She displayed some temporary embarrassment upon seeing Redbud and Verty ; and especially started at that young gentleman . 
he said , stalking toward Verty , and grimacing , at the same time , at Redbud , `` are you there , and with the fairest of her -- hem ! '' 
`` Yes , this is me , and I 've been talking with Redbud , '' said Verty ; `` is that Miss Sallianna ? '' 
`` You know you were talking of her when -- how do you do , Miss Sallianna , '' said Verty , holding out his hand . 
said the fair one , inserting the points of her fingers into Verty 's palm , `` and Mr. Jinks was talking of me ? 
`` No , ma'am , '' said Verty , `` it was at the gate , when I came to see Redbud -- the pigeon showed me the way . 
`` I do n't think it was that , '' Verty replied , `` but it was something pretty -- prettier than what you said just now , when you were courting Miss Sallianna , you know . '' 
`` Are you not , Verty ? '' 
But Verty was intently watching Longears , who was trying to insert his nose between two bars of the garden gate . 
he said . 
he 's looking at something . '' 
Verty was only making friendly signs to Longears to enter the garden . 
Longears no sooner understood that he was called , than he cleared the fence at one bound , and came up to his master . 
Verty laughed , and dragged him away . 
`` Longears , '' he said , `` I 'm surprised at you -- and here , too , where you should conduct yourself better than usual ! '' 
said Verty , with an exhibition of decided ill-humor . 
cried the enthusiastic Jinks ; and having thus displayed , by the tone in which his words were uttered , the depth of his devotion , the grasshopper gentleman gallantly pressed the hand held out to him , and , with a lofty look , made his exit out of the garden . 
Verty followed . 
But first he said to Redbud , smiling : `` I 'm going to see Miss Lavinia this very day , to ask her to let me come to see you . 
`` Yes , ma'am , '' said Redbud ; `` good-bye , Verty , '' she added , looking at the boy with her kind , smiling eyes , and lowering her voice , `` remember what you promised me -- to read your Bible . '' 
Poor Verty smiled and sighed , and followed Redbud with his eyes , and saw her disappear -- the kind , tender eyes fixed on him to the last . 
He sighed again , as she passed from his sight ; and so left the garden . 
Verty , leaning one arm on the saddle , murmured : `` Really , Redbud is getting prettier than ever , and I wonder if I am what Mr. Roundjacket calls ` in love ' with her ? '' 
Finding himself unable to answer this question , Verty shook his head wisely , got into the saddle , and set forward toward the town , Longears following duly in his wake . 
Just as he had disappeared , the door re-opened , and Verty made his appearance . 
Instead of a very solemn and severe rebuke , Verty was surprised to hear Mr. Roundjacket say , in a low and thoughtful voice : -- `` You need not work any to-day , Verty -- you can go home if you like . 
These words were uttered with so much decision , that Verty made no further objection . 
`` Well , '' he said , with his thoughtful smile , `` I 'm very sorry Mr. Rushton is sick , but I 'm glad I can go and hunt some for ma mere.Must I go now , sir ? '' 
Verty nodded indifferently , and taking up his rifle , went out , followed by Longears . 
That place very soon rose upon his sight , and riding up to the house Verty encontered the good-humored Squire , who was just coming in from the fields . 
`` I do n't see why you should ` nt , Verty , '' he replied , `` if you do n't go too often , and keep my little ` But from her lessons . '' 
`` Ive just come from there , '' said Verty , `` and Redbud is very well , and seems to like the place . 
Verty nodded . 
`` That 's the very man , sir , '' he said , `` and I saw him to-day . 
`` Go , then , Verty ; that is , if you wo n't stop to dinner . '' 
This removed all Verty 's scruples ; he had virtually done what he promised Redbud , and would now go and see her , because the Squire had a better right to decide than even Miss Lavinia . 
He informed Verty that he was tired , very hungry , had travelled a long way , and would be obliged to his honor for a little bit of something , just to keep body and soul together till he reached `` Wingester . '' 
Verty very readily assented to this request , and first stabling Cloud , accompanied the German pedlar to the cabin . 
Wolf now made no further objection to his entry , seeing that Verty accompanied him ; and the two persons went into the house . 
`` Ma mere ` saway somewhere , '' said Verty ; `` but we can broil some venison . 
Just as the pedlar thrust these objects into his capacious breast-pocket , the door opened , and Verty entered . 
But the boy did not observe him -- he quickly and cautiously closed the chest , and began examining one of the skins on the lid . 
Verty looked up from the steaks in his hand , observed the occupation of the pedlar , and began to laugh , and talk of his hunting . 
The pedlar drew a long breath , returned to his pack , and sat down . 
As he did so , the old Indian woman came in , and the boy ran to her , and kissed her hand , and placed it on his head . 
And Verty threw them on the gridiron , and burst out laughing . 
In a quarter of an hour they were placed on the rude table , and the three persons sat down -- Verty laughing , the old woman smiling at him , the pedlar sullen and omnivorous . 
`` I do n't like that man , but let him go , '' said Verty . 
The old woman gazed fondly on him ; and this was all Verty needed . 
He rose , called the dogs , and loaded his gun . 
`` Good-bye , ma mere , '' he said , going out ; `` do n't let any more of these pedlar people come here . 
And Verty took his way through the forest , still humming his low , Indian song . 
In the middle of this ceremony , however , and just as his reflections were about to shape themselves into words , the front door opened , and Verty made his appearance , joyful and smiling . 
In his hand Verty carried his old battered violin ; at his heels stalked the grave and dignified Longears . 
`` Good morning , Mr. Roundjacket , '' said Verty , smiling ; `` how do you do to-day ? '' 
Verty laughed . 
he said . 
Verty sat down tuning his violin , and looking at Mr. Roundjacket , with a smile . 
`` I do n't know , '' Verty said . 
said Verty , laying his violin on the desk , and caressing Longears . 
`` Redbud , '' said Verty . 
he said . 
Verty nodded . 
Roundjacket 's face was suddenly illuminated with a smile ; and he looked more intently still at Verty . 
said Verty . 
cried Verty , `` do n't you know old Scowley ? '' 
`` Because you told me all about it ; and I think from what -- '' Just as Verty was going on to explain , the door of Mr. Rushton 's room opened again , and Miss Lavinia came forth . 
She nodded to Verty , and asked him how he was . 
`` I reckon you are going to see Redbud , '' said Verty . 
Miss Lavinia looked intently at him . 
As to Miss Lavinia , she stood aghast at Verty 's extraordinary communication , and for some moments could not get words to express her feelings . 
`` I 've been once , '' Verty said , `` and I 'm going again . '' 
This look , however , was far from daunting him , and he returned it with the most fascinating smile . 
`` The fact is , Miss Lavinia , '' he added , `` Redbud wants somebody to talk to up there . 
She , therefore , gazed at Verty with more overwhelming dignity than ever , and not deigning to make any reply to his rhapsody , sailed by with a stiff inclination of the head , toward the door . 
But Verty was growing gallant under Mr. Roundjacket 's teaching . 
He rose with great good humor , and accompanied Miss Lavinia to her carriage -- he upon one side , the gallant head clerk on the other -- and politely assisted the lady into her chariot , all the time smiling in a manner which was pleasant to behold . 
His last words , as the door closed and the chariot drove off , were -- `` Recollect , Miss Lavinia , please do n't forget to give my love to Redbud ! '' 
Having impressed this important point upon Miss Lavinia , Verty returned to the office , with the sighing Roundjacket , humming one of his old Indian airs , and caressing Longears . 
Verty wrote for five minutes with the new one ; and then split it deplorably . 
`` Oh , '' sighed Verty , `` this writing is a terrible thing to-day ; I want a holiday . '' 
`` It 's a very slavish thing , then , '' Verty said . 
`` You are not far wrong there , young man , '' replied his companion ; `` but it also has its delights . '' 
`` Yes -- Indian , '' said Verty ; `` but I just thought , Mr. Roundjacket , of my new suit . 
To-day was to be the time for getting it '' `` Very true , '' said the clerk , laying down his pen , `` and as everything is best done in order , we will go at once . '' 
Verty had already put on his fur hat . 
`` Well , I wo n't ask it , then , '' Verty said ; `` I never care to know anything -- there 's the tailor 's , aint it ? '' 
Mr. O'Brallaghan surveyed Verty 's lythe and well-knit figure , clad in its rude forest costume , with patronizing favor . 
But when Roundjacket informed him , with hauteur , that `` his friend , Mr. Verty , '' would give him an order for three suits : -- one plain , one handsome , one very rich -- the great O'Brallaghan became supple and polite ; and evidently regarded Mr. Verty as some young lord , in disguise . 
He requested the young man to walk into the inner room , where his artist would take his measure ; and this Verty did at once . 
Imagine his surprise at finding himself in the presence of -- Mr. Jinks ! 
Verty did not recognize him immediately ; and Mr. Jinks did not observe the new comers either . 
Henceforth , sir , recollect that I have rights ; '' and Mr. Jinks frowned ; then he added to Verty , `` Young man , have the goodness to stand upon that bench . '' 
O'Brallaghan and Roundjacket retreated to the outer room , where they were , soon after , joined by Verty , who was laughing . 
And Verty began to admire a plum-colored coat which was lying on the counter . 
He could , however , dispose of it to Mr. Verty , if he wished to have it -- there was time to make another for the aforesaid elegant customer . 
Verty tried the coat on , and O'Brallaghan declared , enthusiastically , that it fitted him `` bewchously . '' 
Mr. Roundjacket informed Verty that it would be better to get the suit , if it fitted , inasmuch as O'Brallaghan would probably take double the time he promised to make his proper suit in -- an observation which O'Brallaghan repelled with indignation ; and so the consequence was , that a quarter of an hour afterwards Roundjacket and Verty issued forth -- the appearance of the latter having undergone a remarkable change . 
Certainly no one would have recognized Verty at the first glance . 
He was clad in a complete cavalier 's suit -- embroidered coat-ruffles and long flapped waistcoat -- with knee-breeches , stockings of the same material , and glossy shoes with high red heels , and fluttering rosettes ; a cocked hat surmounted his curling hair , and altogether Verty resembled a courtier , and walked like a boy on stilts . 
This professional gentleman clipped Verty 's profuse curls , gathered them together carefully behind , and tied them with a handsome bow of scarlet ribbon . 
Then he powdered the boy 's fine glossy hair , and held a mirror before him . 
I 'm a great deal better looking now , '' said Verty ; `` the fact is , Mr. Roundjacket , my hair was too long . '' 
Verty looked over his shoulder , and admired himself with all the innocence of a child or a savage . 
One thing only was disagreeable to him -- the high heels which Mr. O'Brallaghan had supplied him with . 
Accustomed to his moccasins , the heels were not to be endured ; and Verty kicked both of them off against the stone steps with great composure . 
Having accomplished this feat , he re-entered . 
`` I 'm easier now , '' he said . 
`` I could ` nt walk on 'em , and knocked 'em off , '' Verty said . 
`` I will be nothing of the sort , '' said a growling voice ; and turning round , the clerk found himself opposite to Mr. Rushton , who was looking at Verty with a grim smile . 
said Verty . 
Verty laughed , and turning towards Longears , called him . 
But Longears hesitated -- looking with the most profound astonishment at his master . 
But Mr. Rushton had retired , and Verty only heard a door slam . 
Verty put on his cocked hat , admired himself for an instant in the mirror over the fire-place , and went out humming his eternal Indian song . 
Five minutes afterwards he was on his way to see Redbud , followed dubiously by Longears , who evidently had not made up his mind on the subject of his master 's identity . 
In order to explain the reception which Verty met with , it will be necessary to precede him . 
TheApple Orchard carriage , containing the solemn Miss Lavinia , very soon arrived at the abode of old Scowley , as our friend Verty was accustomed to call the respectable preceptress of Miss Redbud ; and Miss Lavinia descended and entered with solemn dignity . 
`` You do not see us very often , Redbud , '' she said , -- `` I mean myself and your father -- but from what I have heard this morning , that young man Verty still visits you . '' 
I am sorry to be compelled to say it -- but Verty is not a proper person for you to remain upon such intimate and confidential terms with . 
He has good qualities , and is very sensible and kind-hearted ; but he is a mere Indian , and can not have anything in common with one so much his superior in station , as yourself . '' 
`` I was only going to say that I am not superior to Verty , '' Redbud added , with tears in her eyes ; `` he is so good , and kind , and sincere . '' 
`` You misunderstand me -- I did not mean that he was not a proper companion for you , as far as his character went ; for , I say again , that his character is perfectly good . 
-- you can not comprehend yet that something more is wanting -- that Verty is an Indian , and of unknown parentage . '' 
`` Now , I mean , Redbud , '' she said , `` that while Verty may be , and no doubt is , all that you could wish in a friend , you still ought not to encourage him , and continue your injudicious friendship . 
`` Verty is an Indian , and a young man of obscure birth -- wholly uneducated , and , generally speaking , a savage , though a harmless one , '' said the lady , returning to the charge . 
Verty never said a word to me about marrying , and it would be foolish . 
But , Redbud , the day will come when you will be a woman , and then you will find this intimacy with Verty a stone around your neck . 
`` If , then , you would spare Verty suffering , as well as yourself , you will gradually place your relations on a different basis . '' 
`` You may do it gradually ; make your demeanor toward him calmer at every interview -- if he must come -- do not have so many confidential conversations -- never call him ` Verty ' '' -- `` Oh , ma'am ! '' 
said Redbud , `` but I ca n't call him Mr. Verty . '' 
`` Do n't call him anything , '' said the astute enemy of the male sex , `` and gradually add ` sir ' to the end of your observations . 
As to Verty , he passed rapidly , with a fascinating smile , saying , as he disappeared : -- `` I hope you gave my love to Redbud , Miss Lavinia ! '' 
Therefore , when Miss Redbud saw Verty approach , clad in his new costume , and radiant with happy expectation , she hastily left the window at which she had been standing , and , in the depths of her chamber , sought for strength and consolation . 
She loved Verty very sincerely as the playmate of her earlier years , and the confidential friend of her happiest hours . 
Overwhelmed by Miss Lavinia 's fatal logic , she had no choice , no course but one to pursue -- to avoid Verty , and thus ward off that prospective `` suffering ; '' and so , with a swelling heart and a heated brain , our little heroine could find no better resource than tears , and sobs , and sighs . 
Forget all about it , Reddy , and make haste down , Verty is waiting for you -- and oh ! 
cried Fanny , trying to raise her friend forcibly , `` I tell you Verty is waiting , and you are only losing so much talk ; they never willlet our beaux stay long enough , and as to-day 's holiday , you will have a nice chat . 
`` Do n't mind me , Fanny , but I ca n't help it -- please do n't talk any more about Verty , or walking out , or anything . '' 
`` Oh , I ca n't go down -- tell Verty that -- '' `` She 'll be down in a minute , '' finished Fanny . 
She understood , at a glance , that Verty had become impatient , waiting in the hall down stairs ; -- had heard her voice from the room above ; and , following his wont at Apple Orchard , quite innocently bethought himself of saving Redbud the trouble of descending , by ascending to her . 
Verty sent his voice before him -- a laughing and jubilant voice , which asked for Redbud . 
Verty made a low bow , and greeted Miss Fanny with one of the most faseinating smiles which could possibly be imagined . 
Fanny slammed the door in his face , without the least hesitation . 
For a moment , Verty stood motionless and bewildered , vainly striving to make out what this extraordinary occurrence meant . 
No one had ever told Verty that there was the least impropriety in this proceeding ; and now , when he only meant to do what he had done a thousand times before , he had a door banged in his face , as if he were a thief with hostile intentions toward the spoons . 
said Verty . 
said Verty , with ready philosophy ; `` it 's nobody but me . '' 
At this dreadful threat , Verty retreated from the door . 
he asked . 
said Verty . 
Verty heaved a sigh , and slowly descended to the hall again . 
As he disappeared , the door opened , and the face of Fanny was seen carefully watching the enenty 's retreat . 
Inten minutes , as she promised , Fanny deseended with Redbud , -- her arm laced around the slender waist of that young lady , as is the wont with damsels , -- and ready to give battle to our friend Verty , upon any additional provocation , with even greater zest than before . 
Redbud , on the contrary , was still sad , and oppressed from the events of the morning ; and , indeed , could scarcely return Verty 's greeting without emotion . 
Resplendent in his elegant plum-colored coat -- with stockings , long embroidered waistcoat , and scarlet ribbon tied around his powdered hair , Verty came forward to meet his innamorata , as joyous and careless as ever , and , figuratively speaking , with open arms . 
What was his surprise to find that no smile replied to his own . 
Redbud 's face was calm -- almost cold ; she repelled him even when he held out his hand , and only gave him the tips of her fingers , which , for any warmth or motion in them , might have been wood or marble . 
Poor Verty drew back , and colored . 
Redbud change toward him ! 
-- no longer care for him ! 
What could this frigid manner with which she met him , mean ; -- why this cool and distant bow , in reply to his enthusiastic greeting ? 
Poor Verty sat down disconsolately , gazing at Redbud . 
He could not understand . 
Then his glance questioned Miss Fanny , who sat with a prim and demure affectation of stateliness , on the opposite side of the room . 
While Verty was thus gazing silently , and with growing embarrassment , at the two young girls , Redbud , with a beating heart , and trembling lips , played with the tassel of the sofa-cushion , and studied the figure of the carpet . 
Fanny came to the rescue of the expiring conversation , and seizing forcibly upon the topic of the weather , inserted that useful wedge into the rapidly closing crack , and waited for Verty to strike the first blow . 
Unfortunately , Verty did not hear her ; he was gazing at Redbud . 
So she was not good enough for the elegant Mr. Verty ! 
He might talk himself , then ! 
Verty did not embrace this tacit permission -- he remained silent ; and gazing on Redbud , whose color began slowly to rise , as with heaving bosom and down-cast eyes she felt the young man 's look -- he experienced more and more embarrassment -- a sentiment which began to give way to distress . 
Fanny forgot in a moment her `` miff '' with Verty , when she saw that for some reason Redbud was very nearly ready to burst into tears , and wished to have the young man 's attention called away from her ; she no longer remembered the slight to herself , which had made her toss her head , and vow that she would not open her lips again : she came to the rescue , as women always do , and with the most winning smile , demanded of Mr. Verty whether he would be so kind as to do her a slight favor ? 
Fanny did not choose to see the expression , and positively beaming with smiles , all directed , like a sheaf of arrows , full upon the gentleman , pushed the point of her slipper from the skirt of her dress , and said she would be exceedingly obliged to Mr. Verty , if he would fasten the ribbon which had become loose . 
Of course , Verty had to comply . 
He rose , sighing more than ever , and crossing the room , knelt down to secure the rebellious ribbon . 
No sooner had he knelt , than Miss Fanny made a movement which attracted Redbud 's attention . 
The impulsive girl 's eyes filled as she looked at Redbud ; with a smile , however , and with the rapidity and skill of young ladies at public schools , she spelled something upon her fingers , grazing as she went through the quick motions , the head of Verty , who was bending over the slipper . 
Verty rose just as she finished , and Miss Fanny , with negligent ease , thanked him , and looked out of the window . 
Verty turned again toward Redbud . 
Verty 's troubled glance fled to the tender , sorrowful face , and asked why she had risen . 
Verty looked after her with deeper astonishment than before . 
Just as he asked himself the question for the sixth time , there appeared at the door of the apartment no less a personage than Miss Sallianna , who , ambling into the room with that portion of the head which we have more than once mentioned , and the lackadaisical smile which was habitual with her , approached Verty , and graciously extended her yellow hand . 
Miss Sallianna received it with a still more gracious smile , and asked Mr. Verty to be seated . 
He shook his head . 
`` I must go away , ma'am , '' he said , sadly ; `` Redbud has quarrelled with me , and I can not stay . 
And Verty 's head sank upon his bosom , and his lips trembled . 
Miss Sallianna gazed at him with a curious smile , and after a moment 's silence , said : `` Suppose you sit down for a minute , Mr. Verty , and tell me all about this -- this -- highly intrinsic occurrence . 
And subsiding gracefully upon the sofa , Miss Sallianna made Verty sit by her , and even gently moved her fan before his face , smiling and simpering . 
Of course there would have been no profit or entertainment in discussing these recondite subjects with a savage such as Verty had appeared to be upon their former interview , when , with his long , tangled hair , hunter 's garb , and old slouched hat , he resembled an inhabitant of the backwoods -- what could such a personage know of divine philosophy , or what pleasure could a lady take in his society ? 
Therefore let it be distinctly understood and remembered , as a thing necessary and indispensable to the true comprehension of this veracious history , that the beautiful Miss Sallianna was not attracted by Verty 's handsome dress , his fashionable coat , rosetted shoes , well powdered hair , or embroidered waistcoat gently rubbing against the spotless frill -- that these things did not enter into her mind when she resolved to attach the young man to her suit , and turn his affection and `` esteem '' toward herself . 
These few words may probably serve to explain the unusual favor with which Miss Sallianna seemed to regard Verty -- the empressementwith which she gently fanned his agitated brow -- the fascinating smile which she threw upon him , a smile which seemed to say , `` Come ! 
Verty , preoccupied with his sad reflections , for some moments remained silent . 
Miss Sallianna broke the pause by saying -- `` You seem to be annoyed by something , Mr. Verty . 
Verty sighed . 
asked Verty , raising his head . 
True , the various experiences I have extracted from the circumambient universe render me somewhat more thoughtful , but my heart is very young , '' said Miss Sallianna , simpering , and slaying Verty with her eyes . 
`` Yes , ma'am -- I mean Miss Sallianna , '' he said . 
Now let us converse about nature , my friend -- '' `` If you could tell me why Redbud has -- '' Verty stopped . 
He had an undeveloped idea that the subject of nature and Redbud might not appear to have any connection with each other in the mind of Miss Sallianna . 
Verty was silent ; he did not know exactly what appreciatemeant , which may serve as a further proof of what we have said above , in relation to the necessity which Miss Sallianna felt she labored under , as a tender-hearted woman , to educate Verty . 
The lady seemed to understand from her companion 's countenance , that he did not exactly comprehend the signification of her words ; but as this had occurred on other occasions , and with other persons , she felt no surprise at the circumstance , attributing it , as was natural , to her own extreme cultivation and philological proficiency . 
She therefore smiled , and still gently agitating the fan before Verty , repeated : `` Have you and Redbud fallen out ? '' 
Verty replied with a sigh . 
With which words the lady ogled Verty . 
Vertylooked at Miss Sallianna , and sighed more deeply than he had ever sighed before . 
Who wonders , therefore , that Verty began to think that it would be a vast relief to him to have a confidant -- that his inexperience needed advice and counsel -- that the lady who now offered to guide him through the maze in which he was confounded and lost , knew all about the labyrinths , and from the close association with the object of his love , could adapt her counsel to the peculiar circumstances , better than any one else in the wide world ? 
Besides , Verty was a lover , and when did lover yet fail to experience the most vehement desire to pour into the bosom of some sympathizing friend -- of either sex -- the story of his feelings and his hopes ? 
And as the old Arcady lives still , and did at the time of our history , so Corydons were ready to illustrate it , and our young friend Verty felt the old pastoral desire to talk about his shepherdess , and embrace Miss Sallianna 's invitation to confide his sorrows to her respective bosom . 
`` Come now , my dear Mr. Verty , '' repeated that lady , `` tell me what all this means -- are you in love , can it be -- not with Reddy ? '' 
`` Yes , ma'am , I believe I am , '' said Verty , yielding to his love . 
`` You have too high an opinion of the sex at large , I fear , Mr. Verty , '' she said ; `` some of them are very inconstant ; you had better not trust Redbud . '' 
cried Verty . 
And Verty 's head sank upon his hands which covered the ingenuous blushes of boyhood and first love . 
Miss Sallianna listened with great equanimity to this outburst , and smiling , and gently fanning Verty , said , when he had ceased speaking : `` Do n't agitate yourself , my dear friend . 
Verty raised his head , inquiringly . 
`` No , ma'am , '' he said ; `` I mean , Miss -- '' `` No matter -- you 'll get into the habit , '' said the lady , with a languishing smile ; `` I meant to observe , my dear friend , that Reddy might be very good , and I suppose she is -- and she might have had a great and instructive affection for you at one period ; but you know we can not control our sentiments , and Reddy has probably fancied herself in love with somebody else . '' 
Verty started , and half rose . 
he cried . 
murmured the young man , falling again into his seat . 
Human nature is of derisive and touching interest , Mr. Verty , '' sighed the lady , `` you must not expect to find Reddy an exception . 
murmured poor Verty , thinking of Redbud 's dreadful change , and yet battling for her to the last with the loyal extravagance of a true lover ; `` she would not -- she could not -- deceive me . '' 
`` But -- '' `` I know what you are about to observe , sir ; but , remember that the heart is not in our power entirely '' -- here Miss Sallianna sighed , and threw a languishing glance upon Verty . 
`` No doubt Reddy loved you ; indeed , at the risk of deeming to flatter you , Mr. Verty -- though I never flatter -- I must say , that it would have been very extraordinary if Reddy had notfallen in love with you , as you are so smart and handsome . 
We can not compress our sentiments ; and Diana , Mr. Verty , the god of love , throws his darts when we are not looking -- ah ! '' 
Which last word of Miss Sallianna 's speech represents a sigh she uttered , as , after the manner of Diana , she darted a fatal arrow from her eyes , at Verty . 
And Miss Sallianna raised her eyes , bashfully , to Verty 's face , then cast them with maidenly modesty upon the carpet . 
`` No , ma'am , '' said Verty , thoughtfully , and quite ignorant of the deadly attack designed by the fair lady upon his heart -- `` I do n't think I could change . '' 
In these simple words the honest Verty answered all . 
`` Because I do n't think Redbud is in love with anybody else , '' he said ; `` I know she is not ! '' 
said Miss Sallianna , gradually forgetting her bashfulness , and reassuming her languishing air and manner -- `` there must be some laborious circumstance , Mr. Verty . '' 
Verty pressed his head with his hand , and was silent . 
stammered Verty . 
The lady smiled , and did not seem at all offended at Verty 's qualification . 
`` I do n't want you to change at all , Mr. Verty , '' she said ; `` only to take this modus addendi , which is the Greek for way , -- to take this way to find out . 
Verty strongly combated this plan , but was met at every turn , by Miss Sallianna , with ready logic ; and the result , as is almost always the case when men have the temerity to argue with ladies , was a total defeat . 
Verty was convinced , or talked obtuseupon the subject , and with many misgivings , acquiesced in Miss Sallianna 's plan . 
That lady then went on in a sly and careful manner -- possibly diplomaticwould be the polite word -- to suggest herself as the most proper object of Verty 's experiment . 
He might make love to her if he wished -- she would not be offended . 
He might even kiss her hand , and kneel to her , and perform any other gallant ceremony he fancied -- she would make allowances , and not become angry if he even proceeded so far as to write her billet-doux , and ask her hand in a matrimonial point of view . 
So when Verty rose to take his departure , he was a captive to Miss Sallianna 's bow and spear ; or more accurately , to her fan and tongue : and had promised to come on the very next day , after school hours , and commence the amusing trial of Reddy 's affections . 
The lady tapped him with her fan , smiled languidly , and rolled up her eyes -- Verty bowed , and took his leave of her . 
He mounted Cloud , and calling Longears , took his way sadly toward town . 
Could he not look back and see those tender eyes following him from the lattice of Redbud 's room -- and blessing him ? 
Verty returned this gaze , and the result of his inspection was , that the new-comer was a total stranger to him . 
He was a young man of about nineteen , with handsome features , characterized by an expression of nonchalance and careless good humor ; clad in a very rich dress , somewhat foppish , but of irreproachable taste ; and the horse he bestrode was an animal as elegant in figure and appointments as his master . 
Verty nodded . 
`` I believe not , '' replied Verty . 
Verty shook his head . 
`` They are mine , sir , '' he said . 
Verty returned the careless glance with one which seemed to indicate that he was not very well pleased . 
he said . 
With which the young fellow touched his horse , and commenced humming a song . 
said Verty , with a sad smile , `` what ! 
said the young man , laughing with his easy noncha lance ; `` tell me if we are rivals . '' 
said Verty . 
`` No , '' said Verty , drawn , he did not know how , toward the laughing young man ; `` no , not with -- Miss Fanny . '' 
Verty smiled . 
`` My name is Verty , '' he said ; `` I hav n't any other -- I 'm an Indian . '' 
Verty nodded . 
I 'm just from Williamsburg -- from the college there ; and I never saw a finer seigneurthan yourself , friend Verty . 
`` That 's all , '' said Verty ; `` the new clothes change me . 
`` Yes , '' said Verty . 
Verty heaved a profound sigh , and said , `` Yes . '' 
The young man shook his head . 
`` Take care , my dear fellow , '' he said , with a wise air , `` I saw her in town the other morning , and I consider her dangerous . 
And the young man gave a farewell nod to Verty , and went on singing , and making signs to the distant Fanny . 
Verty gazed after him for a moment ; then heaving another sigh much more profound than any which had yet issued from his lips , went slowly on toward the town -- his shoulders drooping , his arms hanging down , his eyes intently engaged in staring vacancy out of countenance . 
If we are asked how it happened that the merry , joyous Verty , whose face was before all sunshine , now resembled nobody so much as some young and handsome Don Quixote , reflecting on the obduracy of his Toboso Dulcinea , we can only reply , that Verty was in love , and had not prospered lately -- that is to say , on that particular day , in his suit ; and , in consequence , felt as if the world no longer held any more joy or light for him , forever . 
With that bad taste which characterizes the victims of this delusion , he could not consent to supply the place of the chosen object of his love with any other image ; and even regarded the classic and romantic Miss Sallianna as wholly unworthy to supplant Redbud in his affections . 
Youth is proverbially unreasonable and fastidious on these subjects , and Verty , with the true folly of a young man , could not discern in Miss Sallianna those thousand graces and attractions , linguistic , philosophical , historical and scientific , which made her so far superior to the child with whom he had played , and committed the folly of falling in love with . 
So he went along sighing , with his arms hanging down , as we have said , and his shoulders drooping ; and in this melancholy guise , reached the office of Judge Rushton . 
On Verty 's entrance the poet raised his head , and looked at him curiously . 
Verty sat down , murmuring something . 
`` I 'm not very sad , '' Verty replied , looking perfectly disconsolate -- `` what made you think so , Mr. Roundjacket ? '' 
said Verty , listlessly . 
Verty colored , and his head sank . 
And with a look of profound discouragement , which seemed to be reflected in the sympathizing face of Longears , who had stretched himself at his master 's feet and now lay gazing at him , Verty opened the record he had been copying , and began to write . 
Roundjacket looked at him for a moment in silence , and then , with an expression of affection and pity , which made his grotesque face absolutely handsome , muttered something to himself , and followed Verty 's example . 
This was the case on the present occasion , and Verty seemed as earnestly engaged in his own particular task . 
But appearances are deceptive -- Indian nature will not take the curb like Anglo-Saxon -- and a glance over Verty 's shoulders will reveal the species of occupation which he became engaged in after finishing ten lines of the law paper . 
With a stroke of the pen Verty added the waving hair , brushed back a la Pompadour , the foam of lace around the neck , and the golden drop in the little ear . 
Redbud looked at you from the paper , with her modest eyes and smiles -- and for a moment Verty gazed at the creation of his pencil , sighing mournfully . 
Verty covered his eyes with his hand , and leaning down upon the desk , was silent and motionless , except that a stified sigh would at times issue from his lips , a sad heaving of his breast indicate the nature of his thoughts . 
Longears rose , and coming to his master , wagged his tail , and asked , with his mute but intelligent glance , what had happened . 
Verty felt the dog lick his hand , and rose from his recumbent posture . 
`` Yes , yes , Longears , '' he murmured , `` I ca n't help showing it -- even you know that I am not happy . '' 
And with listless hands he took up the old violin which lay upon his desk and touched the strings . 
Verty , without appearing to be conscious of what he was doing , took the bow of the volin , and placing the instrument upon his shoulder , leaned his ear down to it , and drew the hair over the strings . 
Verty , with his eyes fixed on vacancy , his lips sorrowfully listless , his frame drooping more and more , began to play a low , sad air , which sounded like a sigh . 
Verty leaned more and more upon his instrument , listening to it as to some one speaking to him , his eyes closed , his bosom heaving , his under lip compressed sorrowfully as he dreamed . 
Roundjacket was just about to call upon Verty to cease his savage and outrageous conduct , or Mr. Rushton , who was in the other room , would soon issue forth and revenge such a dreadful violation of law office propriety , when the door of that gentleman 's sanctum opened , and he appeared upon the threshold . 
Verty 's hand passed more and more slowly backward and forward -- the music became still more affecting , and passing from thoughtfulness to sadness , and from sadness to passionate regret , it died away in a wail . 
said Verty . 
Verty 's sad eyes inquired the meaning of so singular a fact , but Mr. Rushton did not indulge this curiosity . 
Verty followed him with his eyes until he was no longer visible , then turned toward Mr. Roundjacket for an explanation . 
Therefore Verty returned to his work , sadly laying aside the two sketches of Redbud , and selecting another sheet to copy the record upon . 
By the time he had finished one page , Mr. Roundjacket rose from his desk , stretched himself , and announced that office hours were over , and he would seek his surburban cottage , where this gentleman lived in bachelor misery . 
Verty said he was tired , too ; and before long had told Mr. Roundjacket good-bye , and mounted Cloud . 
With Longears at his side , soberly walking in imitation of the horse , Verty went along toward his home in the hills , gazing upon the golden west , and thinking still of Redbud . 
Insteadof following Verty , who , like most lovers , is very far from being an amusing personage , let us go back and accompany Mr. Ralph Ashley , on his way to the Bower of Nature , where our young friend Fanny awaits him ; and if these scenes and characters also fail to entertain us , we may at least be sure that they are from the book of human nature -- a volume whose lightest chapters and most frivolous illustrations are not beneath the attention of the wisest . 
Weleft our friend Verty slowly going onward toward the western hills , under the golden autumn sunset , with drooping head and listless arms , thinking of Redbud and the events of the day , which now was going to its death in royal purple over the far horizon . 
Is it at Verty going along with drooping forehead , and deep sighs ; or at the unappreciated great poet , whose prose-strains we have recorded ? 
Therefore , as we have arrived at this rational conclusion , and come to regard Verty and his feelings in their proper light , we will not speak further of the foolish words which escaped from his lips , as he went on ; in the crimson sunset slowly fading . 
In time , perhaps , his education will be completed in the school of Rational Philosophy , under that distinguished lady-professor , Miss Sallianna . 
At present we shall allow him to proceed upon his way toward his lodge in the wilderness , where the old Indian woman awaits him with her deep love and anxious tenderness . 
WhenVerty made his appearance at the office in Winchester , on the morning of the day which followed immediately the events we have just related , Roundjacket received him with a mysterious smile , and with an expression of eye , particularly , which seemed to suggest the most profound secrecy and confidence . 
Verty , however , failed to comprehend ; -- even paid no attention to his poetical friend , when that gentleman put his hand in his breast-pocket , and half-drew something therefrom , looking at Verty . 
said Verty , for the tone of Roundjacket 's observation was such as to convey the impression that he was about to speak . 
Verty shook his head , and leaned upon his desk . 
Verty rose quickly . 
Verty extended his hand abruptly , his lips open , his countenance glowing . 
This exclamation was called forth by the sudden and extraordinary change in Verty 's physiognomy . 
As we have said , the young man had received the letter with a radiant flush , and a brilliant flash of his fine eye ; and thus the reader will easily comprehend , when we inform him , that Verty imagined the letter to be from Redbud . 
Redbud was his one thought , the only image in his mind , and Roundjacket 's words , `` post-mark , the Bower of Nature , '' had overwhelmed him with the blissful expectation of a note from Redbud , with loving words of explanation in it , recalling him , making him once more happy . 
He tore open the letter , which was simply directed to `` Mr. Verty , at Judge Rushton 's office , '' and found his dream dispelled . 
Verty 's face drooped upon his hand , and with the other hand , which held the letter , hanging down at the side of his chair , he sighed profoundly . 
He remained thus , buried in thought , for some time , Roundjacket gazing at him in silence . 
He was aroused by something pulling at the letter , which turned to be Longears , who was biting Miss Sallianna 's epistle in a literary way , and this aroused him . 
He saw Roundjacket looking at him . 
Verty sighed . 
`` I hav ` nt read it , '' he said . 
`` I begin to understand now why your face changed so abruptly when you recognized the handwriting , Mr. Verty , '' said the poet , gently brandishing the ruler , and directing imaginary orchestras ; `` you expected a note from your friend , Miss Redbud -- horrid habit you have , that of cutting off the Miss -- and now you are unhappy . '' 
`` Yes -- unhappy , '' Verty said , leaning his head on his wrist . 
`` I will , sir , '' Verty said , sighing . 
`` I 'll tell you what it is , Verty , my friend , '' said Roundjacket , chuckling , `` I do n't think we make much by keeping you from paying a daily visit to some of your friends . 
`` Good morning , sir , '' said Verty , sadly . 
`` And as for you , young man , '' said Mr. Rushton , smiling grimly at Verty , `` I suppose you are following the ordinary course of foolish young men , and falling in love ! 
Even Verty rose in a minute , and took up his hat and rifle , as was his habit . 
These latter words were uttered as Verty went out , followed by Longears , and closed the door of the office after him . 
He had scarcely heard or understood Mr. Rushton 's extraordinary speech : but had comprehended that he was free to go away , and in the troubled state of his mind , this was a great boon . 
he would go and suffer again in Redbud 's presence -- this time he would know whether she really hated him . 
Certainly not his familiar ascent to her room , on the previous day . 
Could it have been because she did not like him in his fine clothes ? 
`` I 'll go to Mr. O'Brallaghan 's and get my old suit -- he has not sent them yet , '' said Verty , aloud ; `` then I 'll go and see Redbud just as she used to see me in old times , at Apple Orchard , when we were -- ah ! 
The `` ah '' above , represents a very deep sigh , which issued from Verty 's breast , as he went along with the dignified Longears at his heels . 
Longears never left his master , unless he was particularly attracted by a small fight among some of his brethren , or was seized with a desire to thrust his nostrils against some baby playing on the sidewalk , -LRB- a ceremony which , we are sorry to say , he accompanied with a sniff , -RRB- throwing the juvenile responsibility , thereby , into convulsions , evidenced by yells . 
With these exceptions , Longears was a well-behaved dog , and followed his master in a most `` respectable '' manner . 
Verty arrived at the fluttering doorway of O'Brallaghan 's shop , and encountered the proprietor upon the threshold , who made him a low bow . 
His errand was soon told , and O'Brallaghan entered into extensive explanations and profuse apologies for the delay in sending home Mr. Verty 's suit left with him . 
Would Mr. Verty `` inter ? '' 
Verty entered accordingly , followed by the stately Longears , who rubbed his nose against O'Brallaghan 's stockings as he passed , afterwards shaking his head , as if they were not to his taste . 
Verty found himself opposite to Mr. Jinks , who was driving his needle as savagely as ever , and , with a tremendous frown , chaunting the then popular ditty of the `` Done-over Tailor . '' 
On Verty 's entrance , Mr. Jinks started up with a terrific frown ; or rather , to more accurately describe the movement which he made , uncoiled his legs , and raised his stooping shoulders . 
`` I came to get my clothes , '' said Verty , preoccupied with his own thoughts , and very indifferent to the hero 's ire . 
said Verty . 
He stated that Mr. Verty had come for his clothes , and should have them . 
Mr. Jinks replied , that he had ` nt said anything about Mr. Verty ; but was contending for a principle . 
Jinks observed , with dignity and severity , that there were customers in the store , who were gazing at Mr. Verty , just as he was about to disrobe . 
Meanwhile Verty had descried his old forest suit lying upon a shelf , and , laying down his rifle , had nearly indued his limbs therewith . 
In fifteen minutes he had completed the change in his costume , and stood before Mr. Jinks the same forest-hunter which he had been , before the purchase of the elegant clothes he had just taken off . 
Verty finished , by taking off the bow of ribbon which secured his hair behind , and scattering the profuse curls over his shoulders . 
Verty scarcely observed this irate movement . 
Jinks , with a savage look at O'Brallaghan , was about to return to his work , when a letter , protruding from the pocket of the coat which Verty had just taken off , attracted his attention , and he pounced upon it without hesitation . 
Love , my dear Mr. Verty , is contiguons -- you can not be near the beloved object without catching the contagion , and to this fact I distribute that flame which now flickers with intense conflagration in my bosom . 
I need not say that now my feelings have changed , and you , Mr. Verty , have become the idle of my existence . 
Verty had been gazing at the sky , and was scarcely conscious of Mr. Jinks ' presence ; -- but the movement made by Cloud aroused him . 
Verty was getting angry . 
`` Mr. Jinks , you 'd better get out of the way , '' he said , calmly . 
Verty thought Mr. Jinks spoke of Redbud -- the dominant idea again -- and frowned . 
Verty cocked his rifle , and placing the muzzle thereof on the Jinks ' breast , made a silent movement of his head , to the effect , that Mr. Jinks would consult his personal safety by ceasing to obstrnet the way . 
Verty did not even smile , though he remained for a moment motionless , looking at Mr. Jinks . 
He picked up his sword , looked around him cautiously , and seeing that no one had observed his flight , immediately assumed his habitual air of warlike dignity , and extended his hand -- which held the hilt of his undrawn sword -- toward Verty . 
This gesture was so tragic , and replete with such kingly ferocity , that Mr. Jinks was plainly devoting Verty to the infernal gods ; and the curses trembling on his lips confirmed this idea . 
Jinks remained silent for a moment , looking after Verty . 
`` Yes , '' he said , with an awful scowl , `` that young man has robbed me of my mistress -- '' `` Who -- Verty ? '' 
The idea of your thinking Verty your rival in the affections of Miss Sallianna ! 
I tell you , Verty is in love with Redbud -- I know it , sir . 
You resemble an ogre -- you 're not going to eat Mr. Verty ? ' 
`` No , sir ; but I 'm going to call him to account . 
If he is not my rival , he has stood in my way . '' 
`` The perfidious Sallianna has fallen in love with him ! '' 
`` Why , he had the audacity to sell my plum-colored coat and and the rest of my suit to this Mr. Verty . '' 
He would ` make me another , ' forsooth , ` in the twinkle of an eye ; ' and then he began to pour out his disagreeable blarney . 
`` Leave him to me , '' said Mr. Jinks , arranging his sword with grace and dignity at his side ; `` if you wish to assist me , however , you may , sir . 
`` I mean Verty and Ralph , '' Fanny went on , `` and I know something is going on . 
You know Verty is not an ordinary young gentleman -- '' `` Oh , no -- ! '' 
But as you have mentioned Verty , please promise me one thing , Fanny . '' 
`` Only promise me to amuse Verty , when he comes . '' 
`` Amuse him ! '' 
`` Fanny , you can not understand , '' said the young girl , with a slight blush ; `` I hope , if you are my real friend , as you say , that you will talk with Verty , when he comes , and make his time pass agreeably . '' 
Fanny gazed at her for a moment in silence , and with a puzzled expression , said : `` What has happened , Raddy , between you and Verty -- anything ? '' 
You would n't explain that scene in the parlor the other day , when I made him tie my shoe . 
I would have gone to Mr. Verty , and told him that he was a wretch , or something of that sort , and made him come and be friends again . '' 
Redbud smiled , and said : `` We have not quarreled ; but I do n't think I shall be able to amuse him very much , if he comes this morning , as I think he will . 
Please promise me -- I do n't like Verty to be unhappy . '' 
-- you and Verty are very good friends ! '' 
`` Because I do n't know but I prefer Mr. Verty to that conceited cousin of mine . '' 
The two young girls rose , and smoothing their hair slowly , descended , arm in arm , and still conversing , to the dining-room , where old Scowley , as Verty called her , and Miss Sallianna , awaited them , in state , with their scholars . 
As Miss Sallianna had informed Verty , that day was a holiday , and young ladies going to school have , in all ages of the world , appreciated the beauties and attractions of this word , and what it represents -- recreation , that is to say . 
cried Fanny , `` there 's your friend , Verty ; and look what a fright he is ! '' 
Verty 's figure , in the dress which he generally wore , was full of picturesqueness and wild interest . 
He looked like a youthful Leather-stocking ; and seemed to be a part of the forest in which he lived , and from which he came . 
He had been cramped in the rich clothes ; and the consciousness of this feeling , so to speak , had made his manner stiff and unnatural ; now , however , he was forest Verty again . 
His long hair had already become tangled , thanks to the autumn winds , and the gallop to which he had pushed Cloud ; -- his person assumed its habitual attitude of wild grace ; his eye no longer restless and troubled , had recovered its expression of dreamy mobility , and his lips were wreathed with the odd Indian smile , which just allowed the ends of the white teeth to thread them ; -- Verty was himself again . 
He raised his head , and would have caught sight of the young girls in the garden , but for a circumstance which occurred just at that moment . 
She raised them , however , and glancing at Verty , started . 
`` Good-morning , ma'am , '' said Verty -- `` Miss , I mean . 
Verty stared at Miss Sallianna with great astonishment , and said : `` My clothes ? '' 
`` And Verty touched his breast . 
said Verty . 
`` I do n't understand long words , '' said Verty ; `` and you know I am an Indian . '' 
Verty shook his head , and smiling dreamily : `` I always will be that , '' he said . 
`` Oh yes , '' said Verty , very doubtfully , and checking by an effort his eternal exclamation of ignorance ; `` but I thought you liked me . '' 
Verty smiled . 
`` What a funny letter you wrote to me , '' he said . 
`` But I did ` nt understand more than half of it , '' said Verty with his old dreamy smile . 
`` Yes , ma'am , '' said Verty . 
said Verty , pulling at a curl . 
`` I do n't know , '' Verty said ; `` but it feels better . '' 
Verty hesitated . 
`` I thought -- '' he began . 
`` I was thinking , '' said the young man , feeling a vague idea that he was going wrong -- `` I thought that you were not so very particular , as you are only a school-mistress , and not one of those fine ladies I have seen riding by in their carriages . 
Verty was too little acquainted with the expression of concentrated feeling to understand these words , and smiling , `` Then , '' he said , `` there was another reason -- '' `` For what , sir ? '' 
`` I meant , said Verty , `` that as you had very few beaux here -- I believe you call 'em beaux -- I could come so . 
Miss Sallianna darted a glance of scorn at the unlucky Verty , which would have transfixed that gentleman ; but unfortunately he , did not see it . 
`` Mr. Verty , '' gasped Miss Sallianna , `` you will please to end our interview at once , sir ! 
cried Verty . 
`` Yes , sir -- I am forgiving , sir -- '' `` At your time of life you know , ma'am , we ought ` nt to -- '' Unfortunate Verty ; the storm which was subsiding arose again in all its original strength . 
`` Yes , ma'am -- but -- '' `` Mr. Verty ? '' 
`` Yes , ma'am , '' said Verty ; `` but I did ` nt mean to worry you . 
Verty saw that this tragic gesture indicated a determination which could not be disputed . 
He therefore put on his hat , and having now caught sight of Fanny and Redbud , bowed to his companion , and went -- into the garden . 
Poor Verty ! 
Vertyapproached the two young girls and took off his hat . 
`` Good morning , Redbud , '' he said , gently . 
Redbud blushed slightly , but , carried back to the old days by Verty 's forest costume , quickly extended her hand , and forgetting Miss Lavinia 's advice , replied , with a delightful mixture of kindness and tenderness : `` I 'm very glad to see you , Verty . '' 
said that young lady , indignantly , `` I suppose , Mr. Verty , I am too small to be seen . 
said Verty , smiling . 
`` Why , there 's nothing , '' said Verty . 
Verty laughed and blushed . 
`` She knows it , '' said Verty . 
Verty stared , and then laughed . 
he cried . 
`` No , '' said Verty , before she could reply ; `` I said I was in love with Redbud ! '' 
`` I wanted '' -- commenced Verty -- `` Oh , do n't tell me what you wanted ! '' 
Redbud had recovered from her momentary confusion , and , with a beseeching glance at Fanny , said to Verty : `` How much better you look , Verty , in this dress -- indeed you look more homelike . '' 
said the happy Verty , bending his head over his shoulder to admire the general effect ; `` well , I feel better . '' 
`` Oh -- and he comes to see you -- and -- Miss Sallianna ; she said -- '' Verty 's head drooped , and a shadow passed over his ingenuous face . 
`` No -- no , '' murmured Verty , gazing at Redbud with a melancholy tenderness , and trying to understand whether there could possibly be any foundation for Miss Sallianna 's charge , that that young lady was in love with Mr. Ralph Ashley . 
For once Verty was reserved . 
`` Nothing , '' he said . 
But still he continued to gaze at Redbud with such sad tenderness , that a deep color came into her cheek , and her eyes were cast down . 
She turned away ; and then Miss Lavinia 's advice came to her mind , and with a sorrowful cloud upon her face , she reproached herself for the kindness of her manner to Verty , in their present interview . 
`` I think I 'll go and gather some flowers , yonder , '' she said , smiling faintly , and with a sad , kind look to Verty , in spite of all . 
`` Fanny and yourself can talk until I return , you know -- '' `` Let me go with you , '' said Verty , moving to her side . 
said Verty , persuasively smiling . 
Verty gazed after her with melancholy tenderness -- his face lit up with the old dreamy Indian smile . 
We need not say that the notable scheme suggested by Miss Sallianna -- namely , his making love to some one else to try Redbud -- had never crossed the ingenuous mind of the young man . 
He did not wish to try Redbud -- he loved her too much ; and now he remained silent gazing after her , and wholly unconscious of the existence of Miss Fanny . 
Verty turned his eyes absently toward her . 
said Verty . 
Verty continued to gaze toward Redbud , who was gathering flowers . 
he murmured . 
said Verty , smiling . 
And Verty gazed after Redbud . 
Fanny burst out laughing ; but then remembering her promise to Redbud , to treat Verty well , and amuse him , checked this exhibition of satirical feeling , and said : `` Your taste , Mr. Verty , is such that I ought to quarrel with it -- but I 'm not going to ; -- no , not for fifty thousand worlds ! 
Verty 's countenance became clouded ; it was the second time his rival 's name had been uttered that morning . 
Weshall now return to Miss Sallianna , and see what effect the viper tendencies of Mr. Verty had produced upon that young lady . 
Here was an opportunity to supply the place of the faithless Verty and the odious Jinks . 
`` She is already taken up with her affair with Mr. Verty . '' 
`` She is evidently in love with Mr. Verty , '' said Miss Sallianna , compassionately ; `` that is , the child fancies that she feels a rare and inexpressive delight in his presence . 
`` Verty ? '' 
Ralph obeyed , and beheld Verty and Fanny sitting on a knoll , in the merriest conversation ; -- that is to say , Fanny was thus talking . 
Verty 's absent look in the direction of Fanny 's face might very well have been considered the stare of a lover . 
And with this ambiguous speech , Mr. Ralph rose , begged Miss Sallianna to excuse him for a short time , and making her a low and devoted bow , took his way into the garden , and toward the spot where Fanny and Verty were sitting . 
Fannycomplimented Mr. Ralph Ashley with a very indifferent bow , and went on talking with , or rather to , her companion Verty . 
Miss Sallianna had persuaded Verty that Redbud was in love with Ralph ; and , in the second place , had assured Ralph , a few moments before , that Fanny was in love with Verty . 
Redbud was elinching Verty 's doubts by smiling sweetly on Ralph ; -- Fanny was causing dreadful jealousy and conviction of his misfortune in Ralph , by making herself agreeable to Verty . 
This was the simplicity of our friend Verty ; and he unconsciously commenced the overturning operation by saying : `` Redbud , did you find the flowers you wanted ? '' 
continued Verty , with a smile . 
`` Now , Verty ! '' 
`` I ca n't help it , '' returned Verty ; `` I do n't like Miss Sallianna . '' 
`` I would ` nt say it if it was ` nt true , '' Verty said ; `` but it is . '' 
And Verty smiled . 
Fanny burst into a roar of laughter ; Redbud blushed ; Ralph looked with astonishment at the plain-spoken Verty . 
Everybody remained silent for a moment , and then the silence was broken by Ralph , who cried , laughing : `` I 'll back you , friend Verty ! 
-- were desperately enamored of Mr. Verty ! '' 
Thus was it that our honest Verty at once cleared up all misunderstanding -- and made the horizon cloudless once again . 
said Verty . 
said Verty . 
said Verty . 
`` I do n't think they ever did , '' replied Verty , smiling . 
How are these delightful young ladies to get over , Verty ? '' 
`` I do n't know -- I suppose they will walk , '' observed Verty , simply . 
`` He 's not used to logs , '' said Verty , smiling , and shaking his head ; `` he generally jumps the streams , like Cloud . '' 
And with the assistance of Verty , who held one of her hands , Redbud essayed to pass the bridge . 
The moss rendered it slippery , and near the middle she almost fell into the stream ; with Verty 's aid , however , the passage was safely effected . 
Ralph would then have made immediate pursuit of the slipper , but Verty detained him . 
In two minutes Longears returned , panting , with the slipper in his dripping mouth , from which it was transferred to the foot of its mistress , with merry laughter for accompaniment . 
At one moment she certainly did blush , however -- that is to say , when , in ascending the hill -- Verty and Redbud being before -- Mr. Ralph referred to the delight he had experienced when he `` saluted '' her in crossing -- which he could not help doing , he said , as she was his favorite cousin , and her cheek lay so near his own . 
Verty and Redbud , as we have said , went first . 
Verty 's costume , by dint of these outlined descriptions , must be familiar to the reader . 
As he thus went on , clad in his wild forest costume , placing his moccasined feet with caution upon the sod , and bending his head forward , as is the wont of hunters , Verty resembled nothing so much as some wild tenant of the American backwoods , taken back to Arcady , and in love with some fair Daphne , who had wiled him from the deer . 
All the old doubt and embarrassment had now disappeared from Redbud 's face ; and Verty , too , was happy . 
said the young girl , smiling , as Verty 's eye fixed itself upon the blue sky intently ; `` I do n't see anything -- do you ? '' 
`` Yes , '' said Verty , smiling too . 
Verty smiled . 
`` The fact is , I was brought up in the woods , '' he said . 
`` Yes -- '' `` And found you by -- I 'm very much obliged to him , '' said Verty , smiling ; `` there he goes , sweeping back to the Bower of Nature . '' 
And Verty turned to his companion . 
`` I always liked pigeons and doves , '' he said , `` but doves the best ; I never shoot them now . '' 
Did you never hear them in the woods , Verty -- moaning in their nests . '' 
`` Yes , '' said Verty , `` and came back with the olive branch . 
`` I know , '' said Verty ; `` I wish I had been there when it flew back . 
The simple Verty laughed , as he thought of the glee of the little ark-children -- `` if there were any . '' 
`` There are no olives here , '' he said , when they had gone a little further ; `` but just look at that hickory ! 
said Verty . 
Verty thereupon let go Redbud 's arm , and busied himself in gathering a pile of the chestnuts which had fallen . 
This ceremony was attentively watched by Longears , who , lying with his front paws stretched out straight , his head bent knowingly on one side , and an expression of thoughtful dignity upon his countenance , seemed to be revelling in the calm delights of a good conscience and a mild digestion . 
Fanny and her eavalier came up just as Verty had collected a pile of the chestnuts , and prepared some stones for the purpose of mashing them out . 
Longears , full of curiosity , like most intellectual characters , had approached very near Verty as he was mashing the chestnuts upon the stone selected for the purpose , and even in the excess of his interest , had protruded his nose in the vicinity of the young man 's left hand , which held the nuts , while he prepared to strike it with the mass of limestone which he held in his right . 
It chanced that Verty was talking to Fanny when Longears made this demonstration of curiosity , and did not observe him . 
Verty raised his stone . 
Longears smelt at the chestnut in his master 's grasp , his cold muzzle nearly touching it . 
Longears made a terrific spring backwards , and retiring to some distance rubbed his nose vigorously with his paws , looking all the while with dignified reproach at his master . 
Between Verty and Ralph , we need not say , the difference was as marked . 
Verty rose to his feet . 
And so saying , Verty took Redbud 's hand , and leaving Fanny to Ralph , hastened down the hill . 
cried Verty , `` you 'll be drenched , Redbud ! 
Redbud in vain remonstrated -- Verty was immovable ; and to divert her , called her attention to the goings on of Ralph . 
This young gentleman had no sooner seen Verty strip off his coat for Redbud , than with devoted gallantry he jerked off his own , and threw it over Miss Fanny ; not over her shoulders only , but her head , completely blinding her : the two arms hanging down , indeed , like enormous ears from the young girl 's cheeks . 
Having achieved this feat , Mr. Ralph hurried on -- followed Verty and Redbud over the log , treating Miss Fanny much after the fashion of the morning ; and so in ten minutes they reached the house at the foot of the hill , and were sheltered . 
With which the girl , with another smile , tied the ribbon of her chip hat under her chin , and looked at Verty . 
said Verty , smiling . 
-- desperately in love -- hum -- with -- hum -- Verty here ; no doubt of it ! '' 
Mr. Jinks cast upon the quiet Verty a glance which would have frozen giants into stone . 
`` Verty has the proofs . '' 
said Verty , smiling : he had been talking with Redbud during this conference . 
Verty smiled , and said : `` I did not hear what you asked . '' 
And turning to Mr. Jinks : `` Observe , '' he said , in a low tone , `` how Mr. Verty is trying to make Miss Sallianna jealous . '' 
replied Ralph , with solemn sympathy ; `` but here is Mr. Verty waiting patiently to hear what I have to say . '' 
`` Yes , '' said Verty , still smiling . 
said Verty , smiling . 
said Verty , `` yes , you mean deaf people ! '' 
`` Blind people , '' suggested Verty . 
Mr. Jinks had an impression that Verty was trifling with him ; and considering him too good-natured to quarrel , advanced toward him with a threatening gesture . 
he said . 
`` I never knew any , '' said Verty , wondering at Mr. Jinks . 
`` I do n't care , '' said Verty , `` you are not good-natured . '' 
`` I advise you not to be ; you do n't look handsome , '' said Verty . '' 
Verty 's face assumed an expression of mild inquiry . 
`` Yes , '' said Verty , `` but you ought not to fight with that old sword . 
`` And I know Miss Sallianna would scream , '' said Verty . 
Mr. Jinks flashed out his sword , and brandished it around his head . 
said Verty , laughing . 
The great Jinks raved , swore , and executed such ferocious pirouettes upon his grass-hopper legs , in the direction of the smiling Verty , that Ralph became alarmed at the consequence of his mischief , and hastened to the rescue . 
cried Mr. Jinks , making a very faint effort to get at Verty . 
And Mr. Jinks made a terrific lunge with his sword at Verty , and requested Mr. Ashley to hold him tight , unless he wished to see the Bower of Nature swimming in `` gory blood ! '' 
`` Oh , Verty ! '' 
Verty smiled . 
`` Please do n't fight -- for my sake , Verty ! '' 
And Mr. Jinks brandished his sword , and kept at a distance from Verty , making a feint of struggling . 
Verty , who had received all Mr. Jinks ' threats and gesticulations with great unconcern , applied himself to conversation with Redbud again : and no doubt would have conversed all the evening , but for Ralph . 
Roundjacket openly expressed his satisfaction at the result of the day 's labor , and hazarded a sly observation that Verty would not , on the next day , remain so long at his desk , or accomplish so much . 
They could not complain , however , Mr. Roundjacket said ; Verty was a scion of the woods , a tamed Indian , and nothing was more natural than his propensity to follow the bent of his mind , when fancy seized him . 
They must make allowances -- he had no doubt , in time , everything would turn out well -- yes , Verty would be an honorable member of society , and see the graces and attraction of the noble profession which he had elected for his support . 
Verty received these friendly words -- which were uttered between many chuckles of a private and dignified character -- with dreamy silence ; then bowing to Mr. Roundjacket , mounted Cloud , called Longears , and rode home . 
Verty wrote for some moments -- then stopped ; then wrote again for one moment -- then twirled , bit , and finally threw down his pen . 
And then he mildly inquired if Verty would not like to take a ride . 
Yes , Verty would like very much to do so . 
Redbud had suffered seriously from her wetting in the storm . 
First , she had caught a severe cold -- this had continued to increase -- then this cold had resulted in a fever , which threatened to confine her for a long time . 
Poor Verty 's head drooped , and he sighed so deeply that Fanny , who communicated this intelligence , felt an emotion of great pity . 
The carriage rolled up to the door ; Miss Lavinia descended , and greeting Verty kindly , passed into the house . 
In a quarter of an hour the severe lady came forth again , accompanied by the simpering Miss Sallianna , and by poor Redbud , who , wrapped in a shawl , and with red , feverish cheeks , made Verty sigh more deeply than before . 
Verty remained for some moments gazing after it ; then he rose , and shaking hands with the pitying Fanny , who had lost all her merriment , got slowly into the saddle and returned . 
His arms hanging down , his chin resting on his breast , Verty returned slowly to the office , sighing piteously -- even Longears seemed to know the suffering of his master , and was still and quiet . 
Redbud , like most persons , was not fond of a sick-room ; and after sending word , day after day , to our friend Verty -- who never failed to call twice at least , morning and evening -- that she was better , and better , the girl , one morning , declared to cousin Lavinia that she was well enough to put on her dressing-wrapper , and go down stairs . 
This somebody turns out to be Verty ; and the young man 's face blushes with delight at sight of Redbud , whom he runs to , and devours with his glances . 
And Fanny -- amiable Fanny -- knowing all about it , smiles ; and Miss Lavinia , staidest of her sex , suspecting something of it , looks grave and dignified , but does not frown ; and Verty , with perfect forgetfulness of the presence of these persons , and much carelessness in regard to their opinions , gazes upon Redbud with his dreamy smile , and talks to her . 
That day had been appointed for a holiday in the woods , and Fanny , Verty and Ralph were coming . 
Ralph was resplendent in a new suit of silk , which he had procured after numerous directions from our friend Mr. O'Brallaghan ; Verty resembled the young forest emperor , which it was his wont to resemble , at least in costume ; -- and Fanny was clad in the finest and most coquettish little dress conceivable . 
Redbud laughed , and turning her white , tender face , to the dreamy , Verty said : `` Are they not affectionate , Verty ? '' 
Verty smiled . 
`` I like that , '' he said . 
`` Wings , '' suggested Verty , `` But they are so small , and he 's so heavy . '' 
`` He starts high up , '' said Verty , `` and makes a strong jump when he flies . 
Redbud gathered some beautiful flowers , and with the assistance of Verty made a little wreath , which she tied with a ribbon . 
From the forest , they went to the mossy glen , as we may call it , though that was not its name ; and Verty enlivened the company with a description of a flock of young partridges which had there started up once , and running between his feet , disappeared before his very eyes . 
In this pleasant way they strolled along the brook which stole by in sun and shadow , over mossy rocks , and under bulrushes , where the minnows haunted -- which brook , tradition -LRB- and the maps -RRB- call to-day by the name of one member of that party ; and so , passing over the slip of meadow , where Verty declared the hares were accustomed to gambol by moonlight , once more came again toward the locust-grove of `` dear old Apple Orchard , '' -- -LRB- Fanny 's phrase , -RRB- -- and entered in again , and threw down their treasures of bright flowers and bird 's - nests -- for they had taken some old ones from the trees -- and laughed , sang , and were happy . 
Verty and Redbud sitting quietly , at the distance of some paces , under the oaks , looked on , laughing and talking . 
`` I like her , '' said Verty , tenderly , `` because she likes you , Redbud . 
`` Oh , yes -- I think he is very pleasant and agreeable ; he has just come from college , and Fanny says , has greatly improved -- though , '' whispered Redbud , bending toward Verty , and smiling , `` she says , when he is present , that he has notimproved ; just the opposite . '' 
Verty sighed . 
The delicate little face of Redbud was turned toward him inquiringly . 
`` Verty , you sighed , '' she said . 
said Verty . 
Verty sighed again . 
`` Nothing -- nothing , '' replied Verty ; `` I was only thinking about college , you know . '' 
And Verty repeated the sigh . 
Verty shook his head . 
Verty repeated the shake of his head . 
`` I may know as much as the next one about hunting , '' he said ; `` and ma meresays that none of her tribe had as much knowledge of the habits of the deer . 
I do n't think anybody would , or ought to , marry me , '' added Verty , sighing . 
`` I 'm afraid not , '' said Verty ; `` but I wo n't complain . 
exclaimed Verty , with the enthusiasm of the true mountaineer . 
`` Besides , '' said Redbud , taking advantage of this return to brighter thoughts , `` I do n't think learning is so important , Verty . 
It often makes us forget simple things , and think we are better than the rest of the world -- '' `` Yes , '' said Verty . 
Verty looked thoughtful , and leaning his head on his hand , said : `` I do n't know but I prefer the mountains , then . 
I 'm afraid -- '' `` I 'd read my Bible , and think about God , '' Verty said . 
`` Do n't you now , Verty ? '' 
`` Verty shook his head . 
`` I ca n't remember it often , '' he replied . 
Redbud looked at him with her soft , kind eyes , and said : `` But you pray ? '' 
said Redbud , earnestly -- `` all this beautiful world : the sunshine , the singing of the birds , the health of our dear friends and relatives , and everything -- '' `` Yes , yes , '' said Verty , `` I ought to be thankful more than anybody else . '' 
`` At least ma mereis my mother , '' said Verty ; and if I am not an Indian , I do n't know what I am . 
You know , '' he added , `` I ca n't be like a deer in the woods , that nobody known anything about . '' 
Redbud smiled ; then , after a moment 's thought , said : `` I do n't think you are an Indian , Verty . '' 
Verty pondered . 
`` I do n't know , '' he said , at last ; `` but I know it was very good in God to give me such a kind mother as ma mere ; and such friends as you all . 
`` That is pretty , '' said Verty , looking at it . 
Redbud replied with a smile : `` Yes , I generally wear it ; but I was thinking how strange your life was , Verty . '' 
And Verty shook his head sadly . 
`` Then I am angry sometimes , '' he said , `` though not often . '' 
Redbud and Verty followed them , and they soon arrived at the old orchard . 
Behind the party followed Longears , whose presence , throughout the day , we have very improperly neglected to mention ; but as that inquisitive animal was , during the whole morning , roaming , at his own wild will , the neighboring field -- prying into the holes of various wild animals , and exchanging silent commentaries with the Apple Orchard dogs -- this omission will not appear very heinous . 
`` Only fun , '' said Verty ; `` he often does that . 
Longears approached , and Verty pointed to the ground . 
said Verty . 
And smiling , he walked on . 
Longears , however , only moved his head uneasily , and wagged his tail with eloquent remonstrance . 
`` Let him come , Verty , '' said the girl . 
Verty smiled , and made a movement of the hand , which , from the distance of a hundred yards , raised Longears three feet into the air . 
Returning from this elevation to the earth again , he darted off over the fields after the bees and swallows . 
Verty had often climbed into the old trees , and filled his cap with the speckled eggs of black-birds , or found upon the fence here , embowered in the foliage , the slight nests of doves , each with its two eggs , white and transparent almost ; and the recollection made him smile . 
This was Verty 's ; and as they went along he gazed so tenderly at the young girl , that more than once she blushed , and suffered the long lashes to fall down upon her rosy cheek . 
Fanny was talking with Ralph ; -- for these young gentlemen had made the simple and admirable arrangement , without in the least consulting the ladies , that Verty should always entertain and be entertained by Redbud , Ralph quarrel with , and be quarreled with , by Fanny . 
Each , on the present occasion , was carrying out his portion of the contract ; that is to say , Verty and Redbud were quietly smiling at each other ; Ralph and Fanny were exchanging repartees . 
It is at this juncture that Verty runs up and severs the string with his hunting-knive ; whereat Longears , finding himself released , rubs his nose vigorously with his paws , sneezes , and lies down with an unconscious air , as if nothing had happened . 
They did not see that Verty 's hand held little Redbud 's ; and that he looked at her with a tenderness which could not be mistaken . 
When Verty entered Winchester , on the morning after the events , or rather idle country scenes , which we have related , he was smiling and joyous ; and the very clatter of Cloud 's hoofs made Longears merry . 
Verty dismounted , and turned the knob of the office-door . 
Verty paused for a moment on the threshold ; then took off his hat and went in . 
Verty gazed at him for a moment in silence ; then smiling : `` What is the matter , sir ? '' 
he said . 
Verty shook his head , as much as to say , that this was a dreadful state of things , and echoed the word `` everything ! '' 
And Roundjacket , overcome with indignation , struck the newspaper a savage blow with his ruler . 
said Verty . 
Verty shook his head . 
`` That is not right , '' he replied ; `` Redbud says it is wrong to be angry -- '' `` Redbud ! '' 
said Verty , `` do n't do that . '' 
said Verty . 
said Verty , finding that he was expected to say something . 
Verty sat down . 
`` I 'm sorry , sir , '' he said , smiling ; `` but I do n't understand . 
cried Roundjacket , running the end of his ruler through the paper ; `` can you believe , sir , that the first canto of my great poem has been murdered in its columns -- yes , murdered ! '' 
suggested Verty `` It is not a statutable offence . 
said Verty , who did not understand . 
Verty nodded . 
said Verty . 
`` Yes , sir , '' said Verty . 
Verty tried not to smile . 
`` It 's very unfortunate , sir , '' he said ; `` but perhaps the paper -- I mean yours -- was not written plain . '' 
Verty looked surprised , spite of his own suggestion . 
said Verty . 
`` Do n't be sorry , '' said Verty . 
Verty seemed to feel great respect for this overwhelming grief ; at least he did not utter any commonplace consolations . 
Half an hour , an hour , another hour passed -- Verty was breaking himself into the traces ; he had finished his work . 
He rose , and going to Mr. Rushton 's door , knocked and opened it . 
The lawyer was not there ; Verty looked round -- his companion was absorbed in writing . 
Verty sat down in the lawyer 's arm-chair . 
Forsome time the young man remained motionless and silent , thinking of Redbud , and smiling with the old proverbial delight of lovers , as the memory of her bright sweet face , and kind eyes , came to his thoughts . 
There was now no longer any doubt , assuredly , that he was what was called `` in love '' with Redbud ; Verty said as much to himself , and we need not add that when this circumstance occurs , the individual who comes to such conclusion , is no longer his own master , or the master of his heart , which is gone from him . 
As Verty , therefore , came to the conclusion that he must be `` in love '' with Redbud , we may form a tolerably correct idea of the actual fact . 
Why should he not love her ? 
And Verty congratulated himself on exemption from this sad sin of omission . 
He sat thus , looking with his dreamy smile through the window , across which the shadows of the autumn trees flitted and played . 
Listlessly he took up a pen , nibbed the feather with his old odd smile , and began to scrawl absently on the sheet of paper lying before him . 
The words he wrote there thus unconsciously , were some which he had heard Redbud utter with her soft , kind voice , which dwelt in his memory . 
This Verty wrote , scarcely knowing he did so ; then he threw down the pen , and reclining in the old lawyer 's study chair , fell into one of those Indian reveries which the dreamy forests seem to have taught the red men . 
But he could not have reproduced the wild , fine picture ; for in Verty 's face was that dim and dreamy smile which neither pencil nor words can describe on paper or canvas . 
There was little to interest Verty in all this -- or in the old iron-bound trunks in the corners . 
Verty rises , and goes into the recess , and looks . 
The curtain falls over a picture -- Verty raises it , and stands in admiration before the portrait , which it covered . 
And Verty , with the curtain in his left hand , blows away the dust from the canvas . 
There is so much freshness and reality about the picture , that Verty exclaims a second time , `` What a lovely little girl ! '' 
Thus absorbed in the picture , he does not hear a growling voice in the adjoining room -- is not conscious of the heavy step advancing toward the room he occupies -- does not even hear the door open as the new comer enters . 
And Verty smiled . 
Verty turned quickly ; Mr. Rushton stood before him -- gloomy , forbidding , with a heavy frown upon his brow . 
Verty was almost terrified by the sternness of these cold words , and looked down . 
Then conscious of the innocence of his action , raised his eyes , and said : `` I came in to give you the copy of the deed , sir , -- and saw the curtain -- and thought I would -- '' `` Pry into my secrets , '' said Mr. Rushton ; `` very well , sir ! '' 
`` I did not mean to pry , '' said Verty , proudly ; `` I did not think there was any harm in such a little thing . 
I hope , sir , you will not think I meant anything wrong , '' added Verty -- `` indeed I did not ; and I only thought this was some common picture , with a curtain over it to keep off the dust . '' 
But the lawyer , with a sudden change of manner , had turned his eyes to the portrait ; and did not seem to hear the exclamation . 
`` I hope you will not think hard of me , Mr. Rushton , '' said Verty ; `` you have been very good to me , and I would not do anything to offend you or give you pain . '' 
The rough lawyer , with more and more change in his expression , was gazing at the fresh portrait , the curtain of which Verty had thrown over one of the upper corners of the frame . 
Verty followed the look of Mr. Rushton ; and gazed upon the picture . 
`` And what ringlets -- I believe they call 'em , '' continued Verty , absorbed in contemplating the portrait ; -- `` I love the pretty little thing already , sir . '' 
Mr. Rushton sat down in the chair , which Verty had abandoned , and covered his face . 
murmured Verty ; `` I did not think that she might be -- Mr. Rushton -- forgive my -- '' The lawyer , with his face still covered , motioned toward the door . 
`` Yes -- go , '' came from the lips which uttered a groan -- a groam of such anguish , that Verty almost groaned in unison . 
`` I -- I -- must -- yes -- I suppose I did , sir , '' stammered Verty , almost alarmed by the tone of his interlocutor . 
To describethe astonishment of Verty , as he hastily went out and closed the door , would be impossible . 
Verty could do nothing all day , for thinking of the astonishing scene he had passed through . 
The longer Verty pondered , the less he understood ; or at least he understood no better than before , which amounted precisely to no understanding at all . 
He got through his day after a very poor fashion ; and , going along under the evening skies , cudgelled his brains , for the thousandth time , for some explanation of this extraordinary circumstance . 
She lay upon the sofa , near the open window , with a shawl over her feet , and , when Verty entered , half-rose , only giving him her hand tenderly . 
Verty sat down , and they began to talk in the old , friendly way ; and , as the evening deepened , to laugh and mention old things which they both remembered -- uniting thus in the dim twilight all the golden threads which bind the present to the past -- gossamer , which are not visible by the glaring daylight , but are seen when the soft twilight descends on the earth . 
Redbud even , at Verty 's request , essayed one of the old Scottish songs which he was fond of ; and the gentle carol filled the evening with its joy and musical delight . 
This was rather dangerous in Verty -- surely he was quite enough in love already ! 
Why should he rivet the fetters , insist upon a new set of shackles , and a heavier chain ! 
Verty told Redbud of the singular circumstance of the morning , and demanded an explanation . 
Her wonder was as great as his own , however ; and she remained silently gazing at the sunset , and pondering . 
A shake of the head betrayed her want of success in this attempt to unravel the mystery , especially the lawyer 's indignation at the words written by Verty . 
They passed from this to quite a grave discussion upon the truth of the maxim in question , which Redbud and her companion , we may imagine , did not differ upon . 
The girl had just said -- `` For you know , Verty , everything is for the best , and we should not murmur , '' -- when a gruff voice at the door replied : `` Pardon me , Miss Redbud -- that is a pretty maxim -- nothing more , however . '' 
cried the Squire , chuckling Miss Redbud under the chin , and driving the breath out of Verty 's body by a friendly slap upon that gentleman 's back . 
Red bud turned to Mr. Rushton , who had seated himself with an expression of grim reserve , and , smiling , said : `` I did not hear you -- exactly what you said -- as you came in , you know , Mr. Rushton -- '' `` I said that your maxim , ` All is for the best , ' is a pretty maxim , and no more , '' replied the lawyer , regarding Verty with an air of rough indifference , as though he had totally forgotten the scene of the morning . 
These were the words which Verty had written on the paper . 
Verty alone saw the spasm which he had seen in the morning pass across the rugged brow . 
Verty acquiesced in his suggestion that heshould spend the evening , with the utmost readiness -- ma merewould not think it hard if he remained an hour , he said . 
Mr. Jinks has un-christian feelings against three persons , for three reasons : First , against Verty : the cause being that gentleman 's defiance and disregard of himself on various occasions ; also his rivalry in love . 
Verty annoys him , however . 
Mr. Jinks has ceased to think of a brutal , ignoble contest with vulgar fists or weapons ever since the muzzle of Verty 's rifle invaded his ruffles on the morning of his woes . 
He would have a revenge worthy of himself -- certain , complete , and above all , quite safe . 
That young man Verty is the enemy I allude to . 
Do you want to run a-tilt against Sir Verty , eh ? 
Mr. Jinks complies with this request , and details his plans against Verty and Redbud 's happiness . 
Ralph thinks it not feasible , and suggests a total abandonment of revengeful feelings toward Verty . 
And taking a preparatory gulp of the rum , Mr. Jinks continues : `` Suppose I write these words to him : ` A. Jinks , Esq. , presents his compliments to -- Verty , Esq. , and requests to be informed at what hour Mr. Verty will attend in front of Bousch 's tavern , for the purpose of having himself exterminated and killed ? ' 
`` Mr. Verty 's reply . '' 
He is not a rash young man , I believe ? '' 
His reply would be courteous and cool . '' 
`` He would write under your letter , demanding at what hour you should kill him -- ` ten , ' or ` twelve , ' or ` four in the afternoon ' -- at which time he would come and proceed to bloodshed . '' 
`` Yes ; he 's a real Indian devil , although he looks mild , my dear fellow . 
`` No -- no -- I will think of it , '' replies Mr. Jinks ; `` I will spare him a little longer . 
And Mr. Jinks clears his throat , and for the present abandons thoughts of revenge on Verty . 
This was Verty , who , absorbed as completely by his own thoughts as was Mr. Jinks , did not see that gentleman until Cloud very nearly walked over the diminutive Fodder . 
Verty did not consider himself bound , however , to engage in a combat at the moment ; and so with grave politeness , bowed and passed on his way . 
At sight of Mr. Jinks and Verty , Ralph rose with a smile , and came toward them . 
my dear Jinks , '' he said , after bowing to Verty familiarly , `` how did you get out of that scrape ? 
No sooner had he passed from sight , than Ralph turned to Verty , who had sat quietly upon Cloud , during this colloquy , and burst into laughter . 
`` That is the greatest character I have ever known , Verty , '' he said ; `` and I have been amusing myself with him all the morning . '' 
Verty was thinking , and without paying much attention to Ralph , smiled , and said : `` Anan ? 
`` Oh , no -- only thinking , '' said Verty , smiling ; `` I ca n't get out of the habit , and I really do n't think I heard you . 
said Verty , smiling , as he tossed Ralph the note . 
But what are you sitting there for , my dear Verty ? 
Verty shook his head . 
`` I must go and see Mr. Roundjacket , '' he said . 
Verty smiled . 
`` I think not , '' he said ; `` but I do n't know -- I hav n't much time ; good-bye . '' 
And touching Cloud with the spur , Verty went on . 
We shall accompany Verty , who rode on quietly , and soon issued from the town -- that is to say , the more bustling portion of it ; for Winchester , at that time , consisted of but two streets , and even these were mere roads , as they approached the suburbs . 
Verty dismounted , and admiring the beautiful sward , the well tended flowers , and the graceful appendages of the mansion -- from the bronze knocker , with Minerva 's head upon it , to the slight and comfortable wicker smoking-chairs upon the porch -- opened the little gate , and knocked . 
An old negro woman , who superintended , with the assistance of her equally aged husband , this bachelor paradise , appeared at the door ; and hearing Verty 's request of audience , was going to prefer it to Mr. Roundjacket . 
He called from the comfortable sitting-room to Verty , and the visitor entered . 
Beside him lay a ruler , which he grasped , and made a movement of hospitable reception with , as Verty came in . 
said Verty , taking the arm-chair , which his host indicated . 
said Verty , smiling ; `` you do n't mean -- '' `` I mean everything , '' said Roundjacket ; `` I predicted , on that occasion , that I expected to be laid up , and I am , sir . '' 
`` Well , it wasvery bad , '' said Verty . 
cried Roundjacket , flourishing his ruler , and suddenly dropping it as a twinge shot through his shoulder . 
`` Yes , '' assented Verty ; `` but talking about it will make you worse , sir . 
said Verty . 
said Verty . 
`` I do n't know , '' replied Verty . 
Verty said . 
`` It might be very bad writing -- not interesting -- such as ought to be burned , you know , '' said Verty . 
`` If I was to write -- but I could ` nt -- I do n't think I would read it to my wife -- if I had a wife , '' added Verty . 
And he sighed . 
`` But , Mr. Roundjacket , '' said Verty , sighing , `` do you think I ought not to marry because I am an Indian ? '' 
he said ; `` but are you an Indian , my young friend ? '' 
Verty looked thoughtful , and his dreamy gaze was fixed upon vacancy . 
As long as I was in the woods , it did not come into my thoughts much ; the deer , and turkeys , and bears never asked , '' added Verty , with a smile . 
It troubles me very much , '' added Verty , his head drooping . 
cried Roundjacket , betrayed by his feelings into an oath , `` do n't let it , Verty ! 
said Verty ; `` I 'm glad to hear that . 
`` Yes , sir , '' Verty replied , smiling ; `` I thought I 'd marry Redbud . '' 
`` Yes , sir , '' said Verty , `` I think I 'm in love with her . '' 
`` Sir , '' he said , `` whether you are an Indian by blood or not , you certainly are by nature . 
Excuse me , Mr. Verty , but you are a very extraordinary young man ; -- to have you for -- well , well . 
Verty had not heard the last words ; he was reflecting . 
said Verty , at last ; `` it seems to me sir , that people ought to marry ; I think I could find a great many good reasons for it . '' 
said Verty . 
Verty nodded , as much as to say that there was a great deal of truth in this much . 
Verty smiled . 
Verty looked puzzled . 
`` You seem to think it is very dreadful , '' said Verty ; `` are you afraid of women , sir ? '' 
Verty nodded , with a simple look , which struck Mr. Roundjacket forcibly . 
`` It 's very wrong , '' said Verty , shaking his head ; `` I wonder they do it . '' 
Verty , from his position , could see through the window . 
At this announcement , Mr. Roundjacket 's face assumed an expression of dastardly guilt , and he avoided Verty 's eye . 
He did not look at Verty , but , with a bad assumption of nonchalance , bade the boy thank his mistress , and say that Mr. Roundjacket would present his respects , in person , at Apple Orchard , on the morrow . 
Verty gazed after it . 
`` I say , Mr. Roundjacket , '' he observed , at length , `` how funny it is for Miss Lavinia to come to see you ! '' 
The fact is , my dear Verty ! '' 
My reparation , my good Verty , is taking you into my confidence . 
The twinge soon spent its force , however ; and then Mr. Roundjacket and Verty resumed their colloquy -- after which , Verty rose and took his leave , smiling and laughing to himself , at times . 
Roundjacket contemplating the ceiling , and reflecting upon the various questions connected with bachelorship and matrimony , Verty returned to the office , and reported to Mr. Rushton that the poet was rapidly improving , and would probably be at his post on the morrow . 
`` I do n't like him much , '' said Verty , smiling , `` I think he is very foolish . '' 
`` I do n't like him , '' Verty said , `` he does not seem to be sincere , and I think he is not a gentleman . 
They were saying that there would be knives as well as shillalies , '' said Verty . 
said Verty . 
`` I do not know exactly what outlandishmeans , '' Verty replied , with a smile . 
`` It means a variety of things , '' he said , looking at Verty ; `` some people would say that you , sir , were outlandish . '' 
said Verty . 
Verty shook his head . 
`` I did ` nt feel easy in them , sir , '' he said : `` you know I am an Indian -- or if I am not , at least I am a hunter . 
said Verty . 
Verty looked at the lawyer with a grateful smile , and said : `` I do n't think that what you said about everybody 's being selfish and bad is true , sir . 
And Mr. Rushton scowled at Verty . 
This terrific picture caused Verty to open his eyes , and look with astonishment at his interlocutor . 
Verty gazed after him for some moments with a puzzled expression -- then smiled -- then shook his head ; then glanced at the bundle . 
It was heavy enough for two porters , and Verty opened his eyes at the thought of Mr. Rushton 's having appeared in public , in the town of Winchester , with such a mass upon his back . 
`` He 's very good , though , '' said Verty ; `` I do n't know why he 's so kind to me . 
And Verty betook himself to his work , only stopping to partake of his dinner of cold venison and biscuits . 
By the afternoon , he had done a very good task ; and then mounting Cloud , with the bundle before him , he took his way homeward , viaApple Orchard . 
Verty went on beneath the autumn skies , and through the woods , the rustle of whose leaves was music to his forest-trained ear ; and so arrived at Apple Orchard as the sun was setting brightly behind the pines , which he kindled gloriously . 
Verty dismounted and entered . 
To the girl 's observation , that he had a fine evening for his ride homeward , Verty replied -- Yes , that he had ; that he could not go by , however , without coming to see her . 
And as he uttered these words , the simple and tender glances of the two young persons encountered each other ; and they both smiled . 
`` You know you are not very well , '' added Verty ; `` and I could ` nt sleep well if I did not know how you were , Redbud . '' 
The girl thanked him with another smile , and said : `` I believe I am nearly well now ; the cold I caught the other day has entirely left me . 
`` It is half an hour high -- that is , it will not get cool until then , '' Verty said . 
`` I do n't know , '' Verty said . 
In ten minutes , Redbud and Verty were strolling through the grove , and admiring the sunset . 
`` Yes , '' Verty said , `` I like the old grove very much . 
We put them back , you know , Verty -- that is , I made you , '' she added , laughing . 
Verty laughed too . 
`` They were funny little creatures , '' he said ; `` and they would have died -- you know we never could have got the right things for them to eat -- yes ! 
`` Here , by the filbert bush , we used to bury the apples to get mellow , '' Verty said ; `` nice , yellow , soft things they were , when we dug them up , with a smell of the earth about 'em ! 
`` So Verty went to the bushes , and brought his hat full of them , and cracked them on a stone -- the sun lighting up his long , tangled curls , and making brighter his bright smile . 
`` How many things I remember , '' Verty said , thoughtfully , and smiling ; `` there , where Milo , the good dog , was buried , and a shot fired over him -- there , where we treed the squirrel -- and over yonder , by the run , which I used to think flowed by from fairy land -- I remember so many things ! '' 
`` How singular it is that an Indian boy like me should have been brought up here , '' Verty said , buried in thought ; `` I think my life is stranger than what they call a romance . '' 
Redbud remained thoughtful for some moments , then raising her head , said : `` I do not believe you are an Indian , Verty . 
`` I do n't know , '' Verty replied , `` but I wish I did know . 
`` Well , I think so , too , '' he replied ; `` I am not a bit like ma mere , who has long , straight black hair , and a face the color of that maple -- dear ma mere ! 
And Verty smiled . 
`` But it is important to you , Verty . '' 
`` Well , I will , '' Verty said ; `` and I know when ma mereunderstands that I am not happy as long as she does not tell me everything , she will speak to me . '' 
`` I think so , too , '' said Redbud ; `` and now , Verty , there is one thing more -- trust in God , you know , is everything . 
`` I used to , '' Verty replied . 
`` And Verty gazed at the sunset with his dreamy , yet kindling eyes . 
`` Then , '' continued Verty , `` if that is true , we ought to think whether there is or is not such a spirit . 
Verty paused , and they went on slowly . 
And Verty 's face was raised with a dreamy , reverent look toward the sky . 
Redbud and Verty entered ; and then the young man held out his hand . 
`` Yes , '' he said , smiling , `` unless you will sing me something . 
The gentle carol floated on the evening air , and seemed to make the autumn twilight brighter , everything more lovely -- and Verty listened with a look more dreamy than before . 
Then , as she sung , his eye was turned to the picture on the wall , which looked down with its loving eyes upon them . 
Redbud ceased , and turned and saw the object of his regard . 
And rising , she stood beside Verty , who was still looking at the portrait . 
`` She must have been very good , '' he murmured ; `` I think her face is full of kindness . '' 
`` I love the face , '' said Verty , softly ; `` and I think she must have been a kind , good mother , Redbud . 
And Verty gazed at the young girl , with a tenderness which filled her eyes with delight . 
`` She will bless you out of Heaven , '' he continued , timidly ; `` for you are so beautiful and good -- so very beautiful ! '' 
Verty saw it , and held out his hand . 
said Verty ; `` you are just alike -- both so beautiful ! '' 
`` Yes , '' said Verty , `` and I saw the lips smile when I spoke . '' 
They stood thus hand in hand -- the tender mother-eyes upon them : then he turned and went away , looking back tenderly to the last . 
Overhead the shadows played upon the rafters ; around him , the firelight lit up the wild and uncouth interior , with its sleeping hounds , and guns , and fishing-rods , and chests ; on the opposite side of the fireplace , the old Indian woman was indulging , like Verty , in a reverie . 
The silence lasted for half an hour , at the end of which time Verty changed his position , and sighed . 
The old woman turned her eyes from Verty . 
`` The fawn knows the deer , and the bear 's cub knows his fellows , '' continued Verty , gazing into the fire ; `` but they laugh at me . 
`` Yes , tell me everything , '' said Verty ; `` tell me if I am your son . 
`` Ma mere , '' said Verty , tenderly taking the old woman 's hand and sitting at her feet , `` the Great Spirit has made me honest and open -- I can not conceal anything . 
`` No , no , '' said Verty , earnestly -- `` my heart is red , not white ; every drop of my life-blood is yours , ma mere ; you have loved me , cherished me : when my muscles were soft and hot with fever , you laid my head upon your bosom , and rocked me to sleep as softly as the topmost bough of the oak rocks the oriole ; you loved me always . 
`` She is as pure as the bow in the cloud , '' continued Verty ; `` and I did not mean that the dove was the bird who whispered , that I was no Delaware . 
said the old woman , still rocking about , and looking at Verty with anxious affection . 
And crouching , with dreamy eyes , Verty for a moment listened to the strange sob of the pines , swaying in the chill winds of the autumn night . 
he continued ; the world is open now , and I must be a part of it . 
groaned the old woman , looking at him wistfully , and plainly struggling with herself -- hesitating between two courses . 
said Verty , with a glow in his eye , which made him resemble a young leopard of the wild -- `` speak , ma mere ! 
The struggle was ended ; Verty could not have uttered words more fatal to his discovering anything . 
He raised an insuperable barrier to any revelations -- if , indeed , there existed any mystery -- by his alternative . 
Was he a Delaware , and thus doomed to live in the forest with his old Indian mother -- or was he a white , in which case , he would leave her ? 
She looked for sometime at Verty , then , taking his head between her hands , she said , with eyes full of tears : `` You are my own dear son -- my young , beautiful hawk of the woods -- who said you were not a true Delaware ! '' 
And the old woman bent down , and with a look of profound affection , pressed her lips to Verty 's forehead . 
The young man 's face assumed an expression of mingled gloom and doubt , and he sighed . 
Then he was an Indian -- a Delaware -- the son of the Indian woman -- he was not a paleface . 
All the talk about it was thrown away ; he was born in the woods -- would live and die in the woods ! 
For a moment the image of Redbud rose before him , and he sighed . 
He knew not why , but he wished that he was not an Indian -- he wished that his blood had been that of the whites . 
His sad face drooped ; then his eyes ware raised , and he saw the old woman weeping . 
The sight removed from Verty 's mind all personal considerations , and he leaned his head upon her knee , and pressed her hand to his lips . 
`` Did the child make his mother weep , '' he said ; `` did his idle words bring rain to her eyes , and make her heart heavy ? 
Verty rose , and taking the old , withered hand , placed it respectfully on his breast . 
`` Never again , ma mere , '' he said , `` will the wind talk to me , or the birds whisper . 
And Verty sat down , and gazed tenderly at the old woman , whose face had assumed an expression of extraordinary delight . 
`` Listen , '' said Verty , taking down his old violin , with a smile , `` I will play one of the old tunes , which blow like a wind from my childhood -- happy childhood . '' 
Then he raised his old , battered instrument , and began to play one of the wild madrigals of the border . 
The music aroused Longears , who sat up , so to speak , upon his forepaws , and with his head bent upon one side , gazed with dignified and solemn interest at his master . 
The young man smiled , and continued playing ; and as the rude border music floated from the instrument , the Verty of old days came back , and he was once again the forest hunter . 
Verty caressed his head , and laying down his violin , looked at the old Indian woman with affectionate smiles , and murmured : `` We are happy still , ma mere ! '' 
Or should he go and challenge his enemy , Verty , and make his name glorious forever ? 
We do not know the name of the `` hollow '' through which Verty came on the bright morning of the day following the events we have just related . 
Verty knew all this , and though he did not look at it , he saw it , and his lips moved . 
But Verty was musing ; his large , dreamy eyes were fixed with unalterable attention upon vacancy , and his drooping shoulders , whereon lay the tangled mass of his chestnut hair , swayed regularly as he moved . 
It only mingled with his musings -- the bright scene -- and grew a part of them ; he scarcely saw it . 
`` Yes , '' he murmured , `` yes , I think I am a Delaware ! 
Poor , poor Verty -- you are very weak , and the stream here is laughing at you . 
And Verty 's head drooped . 
Verty 's head drooped , and his cheeks reddened with the ingenuous blush of boyhood . 
Having arrived at this conclusion , Verty went along smiling , and admiring the splendid tints of the foliage -- drinking in the fresh , breezy air of morning , and occasionally listening for the cries of game -- of deer , and turkey , pheasants , and the rest . 
Mastered by a greater passion even than hunting , Verty drew near Apple Orchard -- making signs with his head to the deer to go on their way , and wholly oblivious of pheasants . 
He reached Apple Orchard just as the sun soared redly up above the distant forest ; and the old homestead waked up with it . 
Verty always stopped for a moment on his way to and from Winchester , to bid the inmates good morning ; and these hours had come to be the bright sunny spots in days otherwise full of no little languor . 
For when was Daymon merry and lighthearted , separated from his love ? 
Verty lived in the thought of meeting Redbud -- his days were full of her ; but the hours he passed at Apple Orchard were the brightest . 
As he approached the pleasant homestead now , his eyes lighted up , and his face beamed with smiles . 
Redbud was standing in the porch waiting for him . 
She was clad with her usual simplicity , and smiled gently as he approached . 
Verty threw the bundle upon Cloud 's mane , and came to her . 
They scarcely interchanged a word , but the hand of the girl was imprisoned in his own ; and the tenderness which had been slowly gathering for months into love , pure , and deep , and strong , flushed his ingenuous face , and made his eyes swim in tears . 
It was well that Verty was interrupted as he essayed to speak ; for we can not tell what he would have said . 
He did not speak ; for just as he opened his lips , a gruff voice behind him uttered the words : `` Well , sir ! 
Absorbed by his own thoughts , Verty had not seen him -- as indeed neither had Redbud -- and the gruff voice gave the young man the first intimation of his presence . 
Verty pointed to the horizon . 
`` Well , sir -- '' `` And I stopped for only one minute , Mr. Rushton , '' added Verty . '' 
`` Yes , sir , '' said Verty . 
It was with a smile , therefore , that Redbud held out her hand to Mr. Rushton , and said : `` Please do n't scold Verty -- he wo n't stay long , and he just stopped to ask how we all were . '' 
Redbud blushed slightly , and said : `` Verty likes us all very much , and -- '' `` Not a doubt of it ! '' 
said the lawyer , `` and no doubt ` we all ' like Verty ! 
And you , Mr. Verty -- you need ` nt be so foolish as to consider everything I say so harsh as you seem to . 
And with a growl , the speaker turned from Verty , and said , roughly , to Redbud : `` Where 's your father ? '' 
The jovial Squire laughed , and turning from Verty , with whom he had shaken hands , said to the lawyer : `` Breakfast ? 
Verty made a movement to depart , inasmuch as he had breakfasted ; but the vigilant eye of the lawyer detected this suspicious manuvre ; and the young man found himself suddenly commanded to remain , by the formula `` Wait ! '' 
Verty was not displeased at this interference with his movements , and , obedient to a sign , followed the lawyer into the breakfast-room . 
And ere long , at the head of the table sat Miss Lavinia , silent and dignified ; at the foot , the Squire , rubbing his hands , heaping plates with the savory broil before him , and talking with his mouth full ; at the sides , Mr. Rushton , Redbud and Verty , who sedulously suppressed the fact that he had already breakfasted , for obvious reasons , doubtless quite plain to the reader . 
He smiled on Verty , too , the jovial sun , and illumined the young man 's handsome , dreamy face , and profuse locks , and uncouth hunter costume , with a gush of light which made him like a picture of some antique master , thrown upon canvas in a golden mood , to live forever . 
what do you think , Verty , and you , Miss Redbud ? '' 
Verty raises his head and smiles . 
`` I am very fond of Mr. Roundjacket , '' he says . 
`` Yes , sir : he likes me too , I think , '' Verty says . 
`` Well , perhaps the nature of the advice may modify my surprise at your gratitude , Verty . '' 
Verty laughs . 
I do n't know if -- '' And Verty blushes slightly , looking at Miss Lavinia and Redbud . 
And Verty blushes . 
We need not say that the wicked old Squire greets this reply of Verty with a laugh sufficient to shake the windows . 
`` Yes , sir , '' Verty replies , blushing ingenuously . 
interrupts Verty , with sudden energy , `` oh ! 
Yes , the bold , simple , honest Verty , blushes , and looks ashamed , and feels as if he is guilty of some dreadful crime . 
The Squire looks at Verty and laughs ; then at Miss Lavinia . 
I declare , if 1 were a lady , I should decline to recognize , among my acquaintances , the upholder of such doctrines -- especially when he poisons the ears of boys like Verty with them ! '' 
`` Perhaps , '' says Miss Lavinia , with stately dignity , and glancing at Verty as she speaks , -- `` perhaps the -- hem -- circumstances which induced Mr. Roundjacket to give the advice , might have been -- been -- peculiar . '' 
`` How was it , Verty ? '' 
Verty , conscious of his secret , blushes and stammers ; for how can he tell the Squire that Mr. Roundjacket and himself were discussing the propriety of his marrying Redbud ? 
He is no longer the open , frank , and fearless Verty of old days -- he has become a dissembler , for he is in love . 
`` There 's some secret here , '' he says ; `` out with it , Verty , or it will choke you . 
`` Perhaps the time , and the subject of conversation , might aid you , '' says Miss Lavinia , who is nettled at Verty , and thus is guily of what she is afterwards ashamed of . 
`` A good idea , '' says the Squire ; `` and I am pleased to see , Lavinia , that you take so much interest in Verty and Mr. Roundjacket . '' 
First witness , Mr. Verty ! 
Verty smiles and colors . 
`` I recollect that Miss Lavinia called to see Mr. Roundjacket that day , sir ; and as she generally comes into town on Tuesday or Wednesday , soon after breakfast it must have been -- '' Verty is interrupted by a chair pushed back from the table . 
He returns with the mischievious smile , and says : `` There , Verty ! 
The lawyer growls , rises , and bidding Verty remain until he comes out , follows the Squire . 
you ought not to have said that about cousin Lavinia , Verty -- ought you ? '' 
Verty looked guilty . 
Verty said , smiling . 
said Verty . 
Verty said . 
Verty nodded . 
`` Next time I will be more thoughtful , '' he said : `` but I think I ought to have answered honestly . '' 
Verty laughed . 
`` I understand , '' he said , `` you are thinking of the books about the knights -- the old Froissart , yonder , in four volumes . 
Verty looked at Redbud , as if she were the object in question . 
`` You will hurt your hand , '' he said , -- `` those thorns on the briar are so sharp ; take care ! '' 
And Verty grasped the vine , and , no doubt , accidentally , Redbud 's hand with it . 
`` Now I have it , '' he said ; and suddenly seeing the double meaning of his words , the young man added , with a blush and a smile , `` it is all I want in the world . '' 
And Miss Redbud , suddenly aware of Mr. Verty 's meaning , finds her voice rather unsafe , and her cheeks covered with blushes . 
Verty feels astounded at his own boldness , but says , with his dreamy Indian smile : `` Oh , no , I do n't want the thorn -- the rose ! 
Verty sighs . 
`` Yes , '' he returns . 
Verty sighs again , and says : `` I believe you were right ; I do n't think I could have told them what we were talking about . '' 
`` We were talking about you , '' says Verty , gazing at Redbud tenderly ; `` and you will think me very foolish , '' adds Verty , with a tremor in his voice ; `` but I was asking Mr. Roundjacket if he thought you could -- love -- me -- O , Redbud -- '' Verty is interrupted by the appearance of Miss Lavinia . 
`` I did not mean to hurt your feelings , just now , Verty , '' she says , `` pardon me if I made you feel badly . 
And having achieved this speech , Miss Lavinia stiffens again into imposing dignity , sails away into the house , and disappears , leaving Verty overwhelmed with surprise . 
`` Do n't let us talk any more in that way , Verty , please , '' says the young girl , with the most beautiful frankness and ingenuousness ; `` we are friends and playmates , you know ; and we ought not to act toward each other as if we were grown gentleman and lady . 
I am only Redbud , you know , and you are Verty , my friend and playmate . 
Again , she was to him little Redbud , he to her was the boy-playmate Verty . 
`` I think I will try and sing the ` Rose of Glengary , ' '' she said , smiling ; `` you know , Verty , it is one of the old songs you loved so much , and it will make us think of old times -- in childhood , you know ; though that is not such old , oldtime -- at least for me , '' added Redbud , with a smile , more soft and confiding than before . 
The clear , tender carol made the place fairy-land for Verty long years afterwards , and always he seemed to hear her singing when he visited the room . 
And Verty felt the nameless charm of the good old songs , warbled by the young girl 's sympathetic voice ; and more than once his wild-wood nature stirred within him , and his eyes grew moist . 
Miss Fanny 's first movement , after dismounting , was to clasp Miss Redbud to her bosom with enthusiastic affection , as is the habit with young ladies upon public occasions ; and then the fair equestrian recognized Verty 's existence by a fascinating smile , which caused the unfortunate Ralph to gaze and sigh . 
As for Verty , he kept by the carriage , and talked with Redbud and Miss Lavinia , who seemed to have grown very good-humored and friendly . 
Is it wonderful that not seldom her glance encountered Verty 's , and they exchanged smiles ? 
Verty was leaning on the mantel-piece , as quietly as if there was nothing to attract his attention . 
He had pushed Cloud through the mass with the unimpressed carriage of the Indian hunter ; and his dreamy eyes were far away -- he listened to other sounds than shouts , perhaps to a maiden singing . 
She looked round for a seat , and saw none . 
The door leading into the inner sanctum of Mr. Rushton then attracted her attention , and seeing a comfortable chair within , she entered , and sat down . 
Redbud uttered a sigh of weariness and relief , and then gazed around her . 
She went to it , and was lost in contemplation of the bright , pretty face ; when , as had happened with Verty , she felt a hand upon her shoulder , and started . 
Mr. Rushton stood beside her . 
Verty hastens to him . 
He holds the necklace up before Verty there , and says , in a husky voice -- `` Where did your mother get this ? '' 
Verty gazes at the necklace , and shakes his head . 
The lawyer looks at Verty with wild eyes , which , slowly , very slowly , fill with a strange light , which makes the surrounding personages keep silent -- so singular is this rapt expression . 
says Verty , with dreamy eyes , and crouching , so to speak , Indian fashion , until his tangled chestnut curls half cover his cheeks -- `` yes , yes ! 
said Verty , half extending his arm , and pointing toward a far imaginary horizon , on which his dreamy eyes were fixed -- `` this ! 
And crouching , with an exclamation of terror , Verty shuddered . 
he cried ; `` they are coming there ! 
And Verty raised his head , and looked round him with terror . 
The lawyer rose , and laid his hand upon Verty 's shoulder -- it trembled . 
He was revived promptly , and the wondering auditors gathered around him , listening , while he spoke -- the shaggy head , leaning on the shoulder of Verty , who knelt at his feet , and looked up in his eyes with joy and wonder . 
Redbud , with all her purity and tenderness -- Verty , with his forest instincts and simplicity -- the lawyer , and poet , and the rest , must go again into silence , from which they came . 
This said , all is said ; but , perhaps , a few words of the after fate of Verty , and the rest , may not be inappropriate . 
The two kind hearts which loved each other so -- Verty and Redbud -- were married in due course of time : and Ralph and Fanny too . 
Besure , ma merelived with Verty and Redbud all her days thereafter ; and our honest Verty often mounted Cloud , and went away , on bright October mornings , to the hills , and visited the old hunting lodge : and smoothing , thoughtfully , the ancient head of Longears , pondered on that strange , wild dream of the far past , which slowly developed itself under the hand of Him , the Author and Life , indeed , who brought the light ! 
And one day , standing there beside the old hunting lodge , with Redbud , Verty , as we still would call him , pointed to the skies , and pressing , with his encircling arm , the young form , said , simply : `` How good and merciful He was -- to give me all this happiness -- and you ! '' 
