I am not aware that the infancy of Vivian Grey was distinguished by any extraordinary incident . 
But Vivian was an only child , and these exertions were therefore excusable . 
For the first five years of his life , Master Vivian , with his curly locks and his fancy dress , was the pride of his own , and the envy of all neighbouring establishments ; but , in process of time , the horrible spirit of boyism began to develope itself , and Vivian not only would brush his hair `` strait , '' and rebel against his nurse , but actually insisted upon being -- breeched ! 
At this crisis it was discovered that he had been spoiled , and it was determined that he should be sent to school . 
Mr. Grey observed , also , that the child was nearly ten years old , and did not know his alphabet , and Mrs. Grey remarked , that he was getting very ugly . 
The fate of Vivian was decided . 
`` I am told , my dear , '' observed Mrs. Grey , one day after dinner to her husband , `` I am told , my dear , that Dr. Flummery 's would do very well for Vivian . 
Percy Metcalfe , she assures me , was quite as backward as Vivian . 
`` But what do you say to Flummery 's , Grey ? '' 
I never trouble myself , you know , about these matters ; '' and Mr. Grey refreshed himself , after this domestic attack , with a glass of claret . 
Mr. Grey was a gentleman who had succeeded , when the heat of youth was over , to the enjoyment of a life-interest in an estate of about # 2000 per annum . 
He was a man of distinguished literary abilities , and he had hailed with no slight pleasure , his succession to a fortune , which , though limited in its duration , was still a very great thing for a young littérateur about town ; not only with no profession , but with a mind utterly unfitted for every species of business . 
Grey , to the astonishment of his former friends , the wits , made an excellent domestic match ; and , leaving the whole management of his household to his lady , felt himself as independent in his magnificent library , as if he had never ceased to be that true freeman , A MAN OF CHAMBERS . 
The young Vivian had not , by the cares which fathers are always heirs to , yet reminded his parent , that boys were any thing else but playthings . 
The intercourse between father and son was , of course , extremely limited ; for Vivian was , as yet , the mother 's child ; Mr. Grey 's parental duties being confined to giving his son a glass of claret per diem , pulling his ears with all the awkwardness of literary affection , and trusting to God `` that the urchin would never scribble . '' 
`` I wo n't go to school , Mamma , '' bawled Vivian . 
Three or four years passed over , and the mind of Vivian Grey most astonishingly developed itself . 
He had long ceased to wear frills , had broached the subject of boots three or four times , made a sad inroad during the holidays in Mr. Grey 's aforesaid bottle of claret , and was reported as having once sworn at the footman . 
Mr. Grey wished Eton , but his lady was one of those women , whom nothing in the world can persuade that a public school is any thing else but a place where boys are roasted alive ; and so with tears , and taunts , and supplications , the point of private education was conceded . 
As for Vivian himself , he was for Eton , and Winchester , and Harrow , and Westminster , all at once ; the only point that he made was , ` not Rugby , it was so devilish blackguard . ' 
At length it was resolved that the only hope , should remain at home a season , until some plan should be devised for the cultivation of his promising understanding . 
During this year , Vivian became a somewhat more constant intruder into the library than heretofore ; and living so much among books , he was insensibly attached to those silent companions , that speak so eloquently . 
Sure I am , that the character of Vivian Grey underwent , at this period of his life , a sensible , a prodigious change . 
As Vivian was not to figure in the microcosm of a public school , a place for which , from his temper , he was almost better fitted than any young genius whom the `` playing fields '' of Eton , or `` the hills '' of Winton , can remember ; there was some difficulty in fixing upon his future Academus . 
Mr. Grey 's two axioms were , first , that no one so young as his son should settle in the metropolis , and that Vivian must consequently not have a private tutor ; and , secondly , that all private schools were quite worthless ; and , therefore there was every probability of Vivian not receiving any education whatever . 
In a few days , the hall of Mr. Grey 's London mansion was filled with all sorts of portmanteaus , trunks , and travelling cases , directed in a boy 's sprawling hand to `` Vivian Grey , Esquire , at the Reverend Everard Dallas , Burnsley Vicarage , Hants . '' 
The rumour of the arrival of `` a new fellow , '' circulated with rapidity through the inmates of Burnsley Vicarage , and about fifty young devils were preparing to quiz the newcomer , when the school-room door opened , and Mr. Dallas , accompanied by Vivian , entered . 
This last exclamation was , however , a most scandalous libel , for certainly no being ever stood in a pedagogue 's presence with more perfect sang froid , and with a bolder front , than did , at this moment , Vivian Grey . 
However , in the present instance the young savages at Burnsley Vicarage had caught a Tartar ; and in a very few days Vivian Grey was decidedly the most popular fellow in the school . 
He was `` so dashing ! 
The magnates of the land were certainly rather jealous of his success , but their very sneers bore witness to his popularity . 
Notwithstanding this cabal , days rolled on at Burnsley Vicarage only to witness the increase of Vivian 's popularity . 
Although more deficient than most of his own age in accurate classical knowledge , he found himself in talents , and various acquirements , immeasurably their superior . 
Vivian Grey 's English verses , and Vivian Grey 's English themes , were the subject of universal commendation . 
-- I suppose that Vivian 's productions at this time , would have been rejected by the commonest twopenny publication about town -- yet they turned the brain of the whole school ; while fellows who were writing Latin Dissertations , and Greek Odes which might have made the fortune of the Classical Journal , were looked on by the multitude as as great dunderheads as themselves : -- and such is the advantage which , even in this artificial world , every thing that is genuine has over every thing that is false and forced . 
Vivian Grey 's verses were unlike any thing which had yet appeared in the Literary Annals of Burnsley Vicarage , and that which was quite novel was naturally thought quite excellent . 
At a public school , indeed , if a youth of great talents is blessed with an amiable and generous disposition , he ought not to envy the minister of England . 
And sure I am , that Vivian Grey was loved as ardently , and as faithfully , as you might expect from innocent young hearts . 
His slight accomplishments were the standard of all perfection ; his sayings were the soul of all good fellowship ; and his opinion , the guide in any crisis which occurred in the monotonous existence of the little commonwealth . 
One winter evening , as Vivian , with some of his particular cronies , was standing round the school-room fire , they began , as all schoolboys do when it grows rather dark , and they grow rather sentimental -- to talk of HOME . 
`` A feast is but the work of a night , '' said Vivian Grey : `` something more stirring for me ! 
And then they consulted whether they should ask Dallas , and then they remembered that Dallas had been asked fifty times , and then they `` supposed they must give it up ; '' and then Vivian Grey made a proposition which the rest were secretly sighing for , but which they were afraid to make themselves -- he proposed that they should act without asking Dallas . 
-- `` Well , then , we 'll do it without asking him , '' said Vivian ; -- `` Nothing 's allowed in this life , and every thing is done : -- in town there 's a thing called the French play , and that 's not allowed , yet my aunt has got a private box there . 
said Vivian , tired at these various and varying proposals , `` this will never do . 
Vivian was to act Ranger , Augustus Etherege was to personate Clarinda , because he was a fair boy and always blushing ; and the rest of the characters found able representatives . 
Every thing went well -- Vivian wrote a most pathetic Prologue , and a most witty Epilogue . 
There was , of course , some difficulty in keeping all things in order , but then Vivian Grey was such an excellent manager ! 
One of the first principles of the new theory introduced into the establishment of Burnsley Vicarage by Mr. Vivian Grey , was , that the ushers were to be considered by the boys as a species of upper servants ; were to be treated with civility , certainly , as all servants are by gentlemen ; but that no further attention was to be paid them , and that any fellow voluntarily conversing with an usher , was to be cut dead by the whole school . 
This pleasant arrangement was no secret to those whom it most immediately concerned , and , of course , rendered Vivian rather a favourite with them . 
All eyes were immediately fixed on Vivian , and the faces of the Classiques were triumphant with smiles ; those of the manager 's particular friends , the Romantiques , we may call them , were clouded ; but who shall describe the countenance of Mallett ? 
Vivian 's friends were silent , for they hesitated to accept for their leader the insulting title . 
Those , who were neither Vivian 's friends , nor in the secret , weak creatures who side always with the strongest , immediately swelled the insulting chorus of Mr. St. Leger Smith . 
But now Vivian rushed forward . 
and he struck Smith with such force that the Cleon staggered and fell ; but Smith instantly recovered , and a ring was as instantly formed . 
To a common observer , the combatants were most unequally matched ; for Smith was a burley , big-limbed animal , alike superior to Grey in years and strength . 
But Vivian , though delicate in frame , and more youthful , was full his match in spirit , and , thanks to his being a Cockney ! 
ten times his match in science . 
He had not built a white great coat , nor drunk blue ruin at Ben Burn 's for nothing ! 
exclaimed Poynings , who was Grey 's second . 
`` How , Mr. Grey ! 
I do not quote Scripture lightly Mr. Grey ; but ` Take heed that you offend not , even with your tongue . ' 
When Vivian Grey again joined his companions , he found himself almost universally shunned . 
Etherege and Poynings were the only individuals who met him with their former frankness . 
`` A horrible row , Grey , '' said the latter . 
The Vacation was over , and Vivian returned to Burnsley Vicarage . 
He bowed cavalierly to Mr. Dallas on his arrival , and immediately sauntered up into the school-room , where he found a tolerable quantity of wretches looking as miserable as school-boys , who have left their pleasant homes , generally do , for some four-and-twenty hours . 
`` How d'ye do , Grey ? '' 
How d'ye do , Grey ? '' 
`` We can make room for you at the fire , Grey , '' said Theophilus King . 
`` I suppose you know that Poynings and Etherege do n't come back , Grey ? '' 
`` Grey , Grey ! '' 
halloed King , `` do n't go in the dining-room ; Mallett 's there alone , and told us not to disturb him . 
By Jove , the fellow 's going in : there 'll be a greater row this half , between Grey and Mallett , than ever . '' 
said Eardley ; `` how one misses Grey 's set ! 
I wonder whom Grey will crony with this half ! 
Have you seen him and Dallas speak together yet ? 
He cut the Doctor quite dead at Greek to-day . '' 
there 's Grey walking round playing fields with Mallett ! '' 
`` It 's Grey 's ! 
I clean it for him , '' squeaked a little boy . 
`` He gives me sixpence a week ! '' 
`` Cut him over ! '' 
`` Roast him ! '' 
`` To Mallett , '' squeaked the little fellow ; `` Grey lends his flute to Mallett every day . '' 
-- `` Grey lend his flute to Mallett ! 
The deuce he does ! 
So Grey and Mallett are going to crony ? '' 
Vivian Grey was the perpetual companion of Mallett in his walks , and even in the school ; he shunned also the converse of every one of the boys , and did not affect to conceal that his quarrel was universal . 
four rushed to Vivian Grey : but stop ! 
he sprang upon his desk , and , placing his back against the wall , held a pistol at the foremost ! 
Vivian Grey smiled , while the horrid cries of Mallett indicated that the boys were `` roasting `` him . 
He then walked to the door , and admitted the barred-out Dominie . 
There was an explanation , and no defence ; and Vivian Grey was -- expelled . 
Vivian Grey was now seventeen ; and , the system of private education having so decidedly failed , it was resolved that he should spend the years antecedent to his going to Oxford , at home . 
Nothing could be a greater failure than the first weeks of his `` course of study . 
`` He was perpetually violating the sanctity of the drawing-room by the presence of Scapulas and Hederics , and outraging the propriety of morning visitors by bursting into his mother 's boudoir , with Lexicons and green slippers . 
`` Vivian , my dear , '' said his father to him one day , `` this will never do ; you must adopt some system for your studies , and some locality for your reading . 
Vivian apologized , promised , protested , and finally sat down `` TO READ . '' 
He had laid the first foundations of accurate classical knowledge under the tuition of the learned Dallas ; and twelve hours a-day , and self-banishment from society , overcame , in twelve months , the ill effects of his imperfect education . 
At the end of twelve months , Vivian , like many other young enthusiasts , had discovered that all the wit and wisdom of the world were concentrated in some fifty antique volumes , and he treated the unlucky moderns with the most sublime spirit of hauteur imaginable . 
A chorus in the Medea , that painted the radiant sky of Attica , disgusted him with the foggy atmosphere of Great Britain ; and while Mrs. Grey was meditating a séjour at Brighton , her son was dreaming of the gulf of Salamis . 
Most ingenious and educated youths have fallen into the same error ; but few , I trust , have ever carried such feelings to the excess that Vivian Grey did ; for while his mind was daily becoming more enervated under the beautiful but baneful influence of CLASSIC REVERIE , the youth lighted upon PLATO . 
Wonderful is it , that while the whole soul of Vivian Grey seemed concentrated and wrapped in the glorious pages of the Athenian , -- while , with keen and almost inspired curiosity , he searched , and followed up , and meditated upon , the definite mystery , the indefinite development , -- while his spirit alternately bowed in trembling and in admiration , as he seemed to be listening to the secrets of the Universe revealed in the glorious melodies of an immortal voice ; -- wonderful is it , I say , that the writer , the study of whose works appeared to the young scholar , in the revelling of his enthusiasm , to be the sole object for which man was born and had his being , was the cause by which Vivian Grey was saved from being all his life a dreaming scholar . 
Determined to spare no exertions , and to neglect no means , by which he might enter into the very penetralia of his mighty master 's meaning , Vivian determined to attack the latter Platonists . 
These were a race of men with whom he was perfectly unacquainted , and of whose existence he knew merely by the references to their productions , which were sprinkled in the commentaries of his `` best editions . '' 
In the pride of boyish learning , Vivian had limited his library to Classics , and the proud leaders of the later schools did not consequently grace his diminutive book-case . 
In this dilemma he flew to his father , and confessed by his request that his favourites were not all-sufficient . 
Mr. Grey started at his son , and burst into a fit of laughter . 
`` My dear Vivian ! 
Mr. Vivian Grey , benefiting , I presume , by the lapse of further centuries , is about to complete the great work which Proclus and Porphyry commenced . '' 
Whose it shall be in future , Vivian , time will show . 
My dear Vivian , you have now spent upwards of a year under this roof , and your conduct has been as correct as the most rigid parent might require . 
I do regret it ; because , whatever may be your powers , Vivian , I at least have the advantage of experience . 
Ardent young men in their closets , Vivian , too often fancy that they are peculiar beings ; and I have no reason to believe that you are an exception to the general rule . 
You will find Plotinus in the fourth shelf of the next room , Vivian . 
The communications between father and son after this day were very constant ; and for some weeks Vivian employed his time rather in conversing with his father , than with books . 
It must not be concealed -LRB- and when the fact is stated , it must not be conceived that Vivian 's mind was a weak one -RRB- that his fixed principles became daily loosened , and that his opinions were very soon considerably modified . 
He speedily began to discover that there were classics in other languages besides Greek and Latin , and patient inquiry and dispassionate examination soon convinced him of the futility of that mass of insanity and imposture -- the Greek philosophy . 
Introduced to that band of noble spirits , the great poets , and legislators , and philosophers of modern Europe , the mind of Vivian Grey recovered , in a study of their immortal writings , a great portion of its original freshness and primal vigour . 
Nor in his new worship did he blaspheme against the former objects of his adoration . 
He likened the ancient and the new literatures to the two Dispensations of Holy Writ : -- the one arose to complete the other . 
Æschylus was to him not less divine , because Shakspeare was immortal ; nor did he deny the inspiration of Demosthenes , because he recognised in Burke the divine afflatus . 
Neither the fortune nor the family of Mr. Grey entitled him to mix in any other society than that of , what is , in common parlance , termed , the middling classes ; but from his distinguished literary abilities he had always found himself an honoured guest among the powerful and the great . 
It was for this reason that he had always been anxious that his son should be at home as little as possible ; for he feared for a youth the fascination of London society . 
Although busied with his studies , and professing `` not to visit , '' Vivian could not avoid occasionally finding himself in company , in which boys should never be seen ; and , what was still worse , from a certain esprit de société , an indefinable tact , with which Nature had endowed him , this boy of nineteen began to think this society very delightful . 
But Vivian Grey was an elegant , lively lad , with just enough of dandyism to preserve him from committing gaucheries , and with a devil of a tongue . 
Vivian had really passed such a recluse life for the last two years and a half , that he had quite forgotten that he was once considered a very fascinating fellow ; and so , determined to discover what right he ever had to such a reputation , master Vivian entered into all those amourettes in very beautiful style . 
But Vivian Grey was a young and tender plant in a moral hot-house . 
His character was developing itself too soon . 
Although his evenings were now generally passed in the manner we have alluded to , this boy was , during the rest of the day , a hard and indefatigable student ; and having now got through an immense series of historical reading , he had stumbled upon a branch of study certainly the most delightful in the world , -- but , for a boy , as certainly the most pernicious , -- THE STUDY OF POLITICS . 
The time drew nigh for Vivian to leave for Oxford -- that is , for him to commence his long preparation for entering on his career in life . 
I must endeavour to trace , if possible , more accurately the workings of Vivian Grey 's mind at this period of his existence . 
In the plenitude of his ambition , he stopped one day to inquire in what manner he could obtain his magnificent ends . 
Such was the general tenor of Vivian 's thoughts , until , musing himself almost into madness , he at last made , as he conceived , the Grand Discovery . 
`` At this moment , how many a powerful noble wants only wit to be a Minister ; and what wants Vivian Grey to attain the same end ? 
There wants but one thing more -- courage , pure , perfect courage ; -- and does Vivian Grey know fear ? '' 
He laughed an answer of bitterest derision . 
Is any one surprised that Vivian Grey , with a mind teeming with such feelings , should view the approach of the season for his departure to Oxford , with sentiments of thorough disgust ? 
After many hours of bitter meditation he sought his father ; he made him acquainted with his feelings , but concealed from him his actual views , and dwelt on the misery of being thrown back in life , at a period when society seemed instinct with a spirit peculiarly active , and when so many openings were daily offered to the adventurous and the bold . 
`` Vivian , '' said Mr. Grey , `` beware of endeavouring to be a great man in a hurry . 
`` You talk to me about the peculiarly active spirit of society ; if the spirit of society be so peculiarly active , Mr. Vivian Grey should beware lest it outstrip him . 
`` I am no bigot you know , Vivian . 
and respectable , idle loungers , like you and I , Vivian , may then have a chance of walking in the streets of London without having their heels trodden upon ; a ceremony which I have this moment undergone . 
`` But , my dear Vivian , as to the immediate point of our consideration : -- in my library , uninfluenced and uncontrolled by passion or by party , I can not but see that it is utterly impossible that all that we are wishing and striving for can take place , without some -- without much evil . 
my dear Vivian , '' said Mr. Grey , `` it is this which has turned all your brains . 
The cuisine of Mr. Grey was superbe ; for although an enthusiastic advocate for the cultivation of the mind , he was an equally ardent supporter of the cultivation of the body . 
Indeed , the necessary dependence of the sanity of the one on the good keeping of the other , was one of his most favourite theories , and one which , this day , he was supporting with very pleasant and facetious reasoning . 
His Lordship was delighted with his new friend , and still more delighted with his new friend 's theory . 
The Marquess himself was , indeed , quite of the same opinion as Mr. Grey ; for he never made a speech without previously taking a sandwich , and would have sunk under the estimates a thousand times , had it not been for the juicy friendship of the fruit of Portugal . 
A regius professor of Greek ; an officer just escaped from Sockatoo ; a man of science , and two M. P. 's with his Lordship ; the host , and Mr. Vivian Grey , constituted the party . 
I am sure that I can not tell what the weighty subject was that was broached by the ex-minister ; for I did not dine with Grey that day ; and had I done so , I should have been equally ignorant ; for I 'm a dull man , and always sleep at dinner . 
`` In my opinion , '' said Mr. Vivian Grey , as he sat lounging in his father 's vacated seat -- `` in my opinion , his Lordship has been misunderstood ; and it is , as is generally the case , from a slight verbal misconception in the commencement of this argument , that the whole of this difference arises . '' 
Mr. Vivian Grey proceeded with the utmost sang froid : he commented upon expressions , split and subtilized words , insinuated opinions , and finally quoted a whole passage of Bolingbroke to prove that the opinion of the most noble the Marquess of Carabas was one of the soundest , wisest , and most convincing of opinions that ever was promulgated by mortal man . 
It was a rule with Vivian Grey , never to advance any opinion as his own . 
He had been too deep a student of human nature , not to be aware that the opinions of a boy of twenty , however sound , and however correct , stood but a poor chance of being adopted by his elder , though feebler , fellow-creatures . 
In attaining any end , it was therefore his system always to advance his opinion as that of some eminent and considered personage ; and when , under the sanction of this name , the opinion or advice was entertained and listened to , Vivian Grey had no fear that he could prove its correctness and its expediency . 
He possessed also the singular faculty of being able to improvise quotations , that is , he could unpremeditatedly clothe his conceptions in language characteristic of the style of any particular author : and Vivian Grey was reputed in the world as having the most astonishing memory that ever existed ; for there was scarcely a subject of discussion in which he did not gain the victory , by the great names he enlisted on his side of the argument . 
His father was aware of the existence of this dangerous faculty , and had often remonstrated with his son on the use of it . 
On the present occasion , when the buzz had somewhat subsided , Mr. Grey looked smiling to his son , and said : `` Vivian , my dear , can you tell me in what work of Bolingbroke I can find the eloquent passage you have just quoted ? '' 
Vivian did not let the Peer escape him in the drawing-room . 
He soon managed to enter into conversation with him ; and certainly the Marquess of Carabas never found a more entertaining companion . 
Vivian discoursed on a new Venetian liqueur , and taught the Marquess how to mull Moselle , an operation of which the Marquess had never heard -LRB- as who has ? -RRB- 
and the wonderful art of which the Marquess was not aware , by which , during all this time , the lively , chattering , amusing , elegant conversationist , so full of scandal , politics , and cookery , did not so much appear to be Mr. Vivian Grey as the Marquess of Carabas himself . 
and Mr. Vivian Grey ! 
Mr. Vivian Grey ! '' 
`` Certainly not , my Lord , '' said the young man ; -- `` only it must be invented first , '' thought Vivian , as he took up his light to retire . 
A few days after the dinner at Mr. Grey 's , as the Marquess of Carabas was sitting in his library , and sighing , in the fulness of his ennui , as he looked on his large library-table , once triply covered with official communications , now thinly besprinkled with a stray parliamentary paper or two , his steward 's accounts , and a few letters from some grumbling tenants ; Mr. Vivian Grey was announced . 
I shall be most happy to superintend the first concoction for you ; and remember particularly , '' said Vivian , rising , remember , `` it must be iced . '' 
`` Why this moment especially , Mr. Vivian Grey ? '' 
I certainly have a great deal of business to transact : people are so obstinate , or so foolish , they will consult me , certainly , -- and certainly I feel it my duty , Mr. Vivian Grey , -- I feel it the duty , Sir , of every Peer in this happy country -LRB- here his Lordship got parliamentary -RRB- ; -- yes , Sir , I feel it due to my character , to my family , to -- to -- to assist with my advice , all those who think fit to consult me . '' 
carelessly remarked Vivian , `` I thought it was a mere on dit . '' 
`` Overtures , Mr. Vivian Grey ? '' 
-- but I knew it was impossible , -- I said so , I -- '' `` Said what , Mr. Vivian Grey ? '' 
and his Lordship rose , and rang the library bell , with a vehemence worthy of a Marquess -- `` Sadler , bring me the Morning Post . '' 
The servant entered with the paper : Mr. Vivian Grey seized it from his hands before it reached the Marquess , and glancing his eye over it , with the rapidity of lightning , doubled up the sheet in a convenient readable form , and pushing it into his Lordship 's hands , exclaimed , `` There , my Lord ! 
His Lordship read : -- `` We are informed that some alteration in the composition of the present administration is in contemplation ; Lord Past Century , it is said , will retire ; Mr. Liberal Principles will have the -- and Mr. Charlatan Gas the -- . 
It would have been impossible for a hawk to have watched its quarry with eyes of more fixed and anxious earnestness , than did Vivian Grey the Marquess of Carabas , as his Lordship 's eyes wandered over the paragraph . 
Vivian drew his chair close to the table opposite to the Marquess , and when the paragraph was read , their eyes met . 
`` But why , Mr. Vivian Grey should deem the fact of such overtures having been made , ` impossible , ' I confess , astonishes me . '' 
`` Ay , Mr. Grey , impossible , that was your word . '' 
`` Nay , nay , Mr. Grey , something must have been floating in your mind -- why impossible , why impossible ? 
`` But , my dear Mr. Grey , you would not have used the word without having some meaning . 
It was one of Sir Thomas 's happiest efforts ; but it was not the happiness of the likeness , nor the beauty of the painting , which now attracted his Lordship 's attention ; he thought only of the costume in which he appeared in that portrait -- the court dress of a Cabinet Minister ; -- '' Impossible , Mr. Grey , you must confess is a very peculiar word , '' reiterated his Lordship . 
my Lord , you do mistake me , '' eagerly burst forth Vivian , `` I am no coldblooded philosopher , that would despise that , for which , in my opinion , men , real men , should alone exist . 
The peer sat in a musing mood , playing the Devil 's tattoo on the library table ; at last , he raised his eyes from the French varnish , and said to Vivian , in a low whisper , `` Are you so certain that I can command all and every thing ? '' 
`` And , Mr. Grey , I should be glad to know what can possibly be more interesting to me than a faithful representation of the feelings of general society on this subject . '' 
`` Mr. Grey , the many are not often wrong . 
eagerly rejoined Vivian , `` here is the terrible error into which you great statesmen have always fallen . 
And here the Marchioness detected Mr. Grey , and gave him as fashionable a stare as might be expected from a Lady Patroness of Almack 's . 
`` The Marchioness -- Mr. Vivian Grey -- My love , I assure you we 're engaged in a most important , a most -- '' `` Oh ! 
The Marchioness retired , `` easier in her mind about Julie , than she had been for some days , '' as Vivian assured her `` that it was not apoplexy , but only the first symptom of an epidemic . '' 
`` Now , Mr. Grey , '' said his Lordship , endeavouring to recover his dignity , `` we were discussing the public sentiments , you know , on a certain point , when this unfortunate interruption -- '' Vivian had not much difficulty in collecting his ideas , and he proceeded , not as displeased as his Lordship , with the domestic scena . 
No thinking man , -- and such , I trust , Vivian Grey is , -- no thinking man can for a moment suppose , that your Lordship 's heart is very warm in the cause of a party , which -- for I will not mince my words -- has betrayed you . 
My Lord , it is to preserve your consistency ; it is to vindicate your high character , it is to make the Marquess of Carabas perform the duties which society requires from him , that I , Vivian Grey , a member of that society , and an humble friend of your Lordship , speak so boldly . '' 
`` My Lord , '' said Vivian , and he drew his chair close to the Marquess , `` the plan is shortly this . 
Leave all this to me -- give me your Lordship 's name , '' said Vivian , whispering most earnestly in the Marquess 's ear , and laying his hand upon his Lordship 's arm -- `` give me your Lordship 's name , and your Lordship 's influence , and I will take upon myself the whole organization of the Carabas party . '' 
-- The Marquess 's eyes smiled with triumph , as he shook Vivian cordially by the hand , and begged him to call upon him on the morrow . 
The intercourse between the Marquess and Vivian , after this interview , was constant . 
No dinner-party was thought perfect at Carabas House , without the presence of the young gentleman ; and as the Marchioness was delighted with the perpetual presence of an individual whom she could always consult about Julie , there was apparently no domestic obstacle to Vivian 's remaining in high favour . 
This lady , exhausted by the gaiety of the season , had left town somewhat earlier than she usually did , and was inhaling fresh air , and of course studying botany , at the magnificent seat of the Carabas family , Château Desir , at which splendid place Vivian was to pass the summer . 
Mr. Grey watched the movements of his son with an anxious , but apparently with no curious eye . 
when Mr. Grey jocosely used the phrase , `` new system , '' he was little aware of the workings of his son 's mind . 
In the meantime , as we before stated , all was sunshine with Vivian Grey . 
His noble friend and himself were in perpetual converse , and constantly engaged in deep consultation . 
As yet , the world knew nothing , except that , according to the Marquess of Carabas , `` Vivian Grey was the most astonishingly clever and prodigiously accomplished fellow that ever breathed . '' 
And as the Marquess always added , `` resembled himself very much when he was young . '' 
But it must not be supposed , that Vivian was to all the world the fascinating creature that he was to the Marquess of Carabas . 
But the truth was , Vivian Grey often asked himself , `` who is to be my enemy to-morrow ? '' 
He was too cunning a master of the human mind , not to be aware of the quicksands upon which all greenhorns strike ; -- he knew too well the danger of unnecessary intimacy . 
A smile for a friend , and a sneer for the world , is the way to govern mankind , and such was the motto of Vivian Grey . 
thought Vivian Grey , as he approached , on a fine summer 's afternoon , the splendid Château . 
And here he gained the garden gate : so he stopped his soliloquy , and gave his horse to his groom . 
The Marquess had preceded Vivian in his arrival about three or four days , and of course , to use the common phrase , the establishment `` was quite settled . '' 
It was , indeed , to avoid the possibility of witnessing the domestic arrangements of a nobleman in any other point of view , save that of perfection , that Vivian had declined accompanying his noble friend to the Château . 
Mr. Grey , junior , was an epicurean , and all epicureans will quite agree with me , that his conduct on this head was extremely wise . 
`` Grey , my boy , quite happy to see ye ! 
Such was the salutation of the Marquess ; and Vivian accordingly retired to arrange his toilet . 
The first bell rang , and the second bell rang , and Vivian was seated at the dinner-table . 
He bowed to the Marchioness , and asked after her poodle , and gazed with some little curiosity at the vacant chair opposite him . 
`` Mrs. Felix Lorraine -- Mr. Vivian Grey , '' said the Marquess , as a Lady entered the room . 
The extraordinary influence which Mrs. Felix Lorraine possessed , was certainly not owing to her beauty , for the lady opposite Vivian Grey had apparently no claims to admiration , on the score of her personal qualifications . 
The lady did bow to Mr. Grey , and that was all ; and then she negligently spooned her soup , and then , after much parade , sent it away untouched . 
As Vivian wined with the Marchioness , he was not under the necessity of paying any courtesy to his opposite neighbour , whose silence , he plainly perceived , was for the nonce , and consequently for him . 
But the day was hot , and Vivian had been fatigued by his ride , and the Marquess 's champagne was excellent ; and so , at last , the floodgates of his speech burst , and talk he did . 
He complimented her Ladyship 's poodle , quoted German to Mrs. Felix Lorraine , and taught the Marquess to eat cabinet pudding with curaçoâ sauce -LRB- a custom which , by the bye , I recommend to all -RRB- ; and then his stories , and his scandal , and his sentiment ; -- stories for the Marquess , scandal for the Marchioness , and sentiment for the Marquess 's sister ! 
But now came her punishment , for Vivian saw the effect which he had produced on Mrs. Felix Lorraine , and that Mrs. Felix Lorraine now wished to produce a corresponding effect upon him , and this he was determined she should not do ; so new stories followed , and new compliments ensued , and finally he anticipated her sentences , and sometimes her thoughts . 
Her worthy spouse , who was prevented by the presence of Mrs. Felix Lorraine , from talking politics with Vivian , passed the bottle pretty briskly , and then conjecturing that `` from the sunset we should have a fine day to-morrow , '' fell back in his easy chair , and -- snored . 
`` Mr. Grey , I congratulate you on this hospitable reception ; you see we treat you quite en famille . 
`` You must know , Mr. Grey , that this is my favourite walk , and I therefore expect that it will be yours . '' 
`` I never can open my mouth , except in the presence of a woman , '' bolted out Vivian , with the most impudent mendacity , and he looked interesting and innocent . 
and here Mrs. Felix Lorraine imitated Vivian 's sentimental voice . 
`` Nothing appears to me more evident , '' said Vivian . 
Have you a friend , Mr. Vivian Grey ? '' 
said Vivian , in a proper tone of surprise . 
`` You may have seen twenty summers , '' gallantly conjectured Vivian . 
`` A clever woman , '' thought Vivian , `` but vain ; I hardly know what to think of her . '' 
`` Mr. Grey , I fear you find me in bad spirits to-day ; but , alas ! 
it is impossible that I can have but one sentiment with regard to your , that of -- '' `` Of what , Mr. Grey ? '' 
Her husband 's indifference was the sorrowful theme of her lamentations ; and she ended by asking Mr. Vivian Grey 's advice , as to the line of conduct which she should pursue with regard to him ; first duly informing Vivian , that this was the only time , and he the only person , to whom this subject had been ever mentioned . 
The Marquess is the best of men , but -- '' and here she looked up in Vivian 's face , and spoke volumes ; `` and the Marchioness is the most amiable of women , -- at least , I suppose her lap-dog thinks so . '' 
The advice of Vivian was very concise . 
He sent the husband to the devil in two seconds , and insisted upon the wife 's not thinking of him for another moment ; and then the lady dried her eyes , and promised to do her best . 
I have no head for politics , Mr. Grey ; but if I can not assist you in managing the nation , I perhaps may in managing the family , and my services are at your command . 
Vivian did think it a very pretty hand , and he performed due courtesies in a very gallant style . 
When Vivian retired to his room he found a nótellette on his dressing-case , which contained two lines . 
In spite of his travelling , and his champagne , and his sound sleep , Vivian rose early , and was on the Terrace at a most reasonable hour , at least for him : Mrs. Felix Lorraine was already there . 
`` I congratulate Mr. Grey , '' said the lady , as she extended him a finger , `` on being an early riser . 
There , that 's better , '' said Mrs. Lorraine , adjusting the stock for him , `` not much beard yet , I see ; you must take care to have one before you 're a -- privy counsellor . '' 
`` I rejoice , '' said Vivian , `` that I can in return sincerely compliment you on your own good taste in costume . 
I mean nothing , except that the future minister never rises till noon -- bad habits , Mr. Grey , for a man of business ! '' 
we must endeavour to cure him , now that he 's going , as you say , to be a man of business . '' 
cure him by all means . 
He 'll give you , I do n't doubt , plenty of occupation . 
There-are the Courtowns coming , and Sir Berdmore and Lady Scrope , and the Beaconsfields -- all next week ; and crowds of all sorts of people , whose names I forget , pawns in the great game of chess , which is to be played by Vivian Grey , Esq. and the most noble the Marquess of Carabas -- against all England . 
Vivian 's morning was amply occupied in maturing with the Marquess the grand principles of the new political system : in weighing interests , in balancing connections , and settling `` what side was to be taken on the great questions ? '' 
-- The whole business , although so magnificent in its result , appeared very easy to the two counsellors , for it was one of the first principles of Mr. Vivian Grey . 
Now Vivian Grey was conscious , that there was at least one person in the world , who was no craven either in body or in mind , and so he had long come to the comfortable conclusion , that it was impossible that his career could be any thing , but the most brilliant . 
Not that it must be supposed , even for a moment , that Vivian Grey was , what the world calls , conceited . 
he knew the measure of his own mind , and had fathomed the depth of his powers with equal skill and impartiality ; but in the process he could not but feel , that he could conceive much , and dare do more . 
I said the first week at Château Desir passed pleasantly enough ; and so it did , for Vivian 's soul revelled in the morning councils on his future fortunes , with as much eager joy , as a young courser trying the turf , preliminary to running for the plate . 
and then she remembered Germany , and grew sad , and abused her husband ; and then she taught Vivian the guitar , and -- some other fooleries besides . 
The second week of Vivian 's visit had come round , and the flag waved proudly on the proud tower of Château Desir , indicating to the admiring county , that the most noble Sydney , Marquess of Carabas , held public days twice a week at his grand Castle . 
To all these distinguished personages , Vivian was introduced by the Marquess as `` a monstrous clever young man , and his Lordship 's most particular friend '' -- and then the noble Carabas left the game in his young friend 's hands . 
And right well Vivian did his duty . 
In a week 's time it would have been hard to decide with whom of the family of the Courtowns Vivian was the greatest favourite . 
He rode with the Viscount , who was a good horseman , and was driven by his Lady , who was a good whip ; and when he had sufficiently admired the tout ensemble of her Ladyship 's pony phaeton , he entrusted her , `` in confidence , '' with some ideas of his own about Martingales , a subject which he assured her Ladyship `` had been the object of his mature consideration . '' 
Ere the Beaconsfields could be jealous of the influence of the Courtowns , Mr. Vivian Grey had promised his Lordship , who was a collector of medals , an unique , which had never yet been heard of ; and her Ladyship , who was a collector of autographs , the private letters of every man of genius who ever had been heard of . 
Sir Berdmore Scrope , Vivian found a more unmanageable personage ; for the baronet was confoundedly shrewd , and without a particle of sentiment in his composition . 
It was a great thing , however , to gain him ; for Sir Berdmore was a leading country gentleman , and having quarrelled with Ministers about the corn laws , had been accounted disaffected ever since . 
The baronet , however , although a bold man to the world , was luckily henpecked ; so Vivian made love to the wife , and secured the husband . 
Vivian Grey , fresh as he was , was not exactly the creature to lose his heart very speedily . 
He looked upon marriage as a certain farce in which , sooner or later , he was , as a well-paid actor , to play his part ; and could it have advanced his views one jot , he would have married the Princess Caraboo tomorrow . 
But of all wives in the world , a young and handsome one was that which he most dreaded ; and how a statesman , who was wedded to a beautiful woman , could possibly perform his duties to the public , did most exceedingly puzzle him . 
Notwithstanding , however , these sentiments , Vivian began to think that there really could be no harm in talking to so beautiful a creature as Julia , and a little conversation with her would , he felt , be no unpleasing relief to the difficult duties in which he was involved . 
To the astonishment of the Honourable Buckhurst Stanhope , eldest son of Lord Beaconsfield , Mr. Vivian Grey , who had never yet condescended to acknowledge his existence , asked him one morning , with the most fascinating of smiles , and with the most conciliating voice , `` whether they should ride together ? '' 
Having thus , like a man of honour , provided for the amusement of his former friends , the three Miss Courtowns , Vivian left Mrs. Felix Lorraine to the Colonel , whose mustache , by the bye , that lady considerably patronized , and then , having excited an universal feeling of gallantry among the elders , Vivian found his whole day at the service of Julia Manvers . 
`` And Monsieur Denon did take a portrait of Mr. Rogers as Cupid , I believe , Mr. Grey ? '' 
said Vivian , rising from his Ottoman , and seating himself on the sofa by the lady . 
`` How can you refine so , Mr. Grey , when the thermometer is at 250o ! 
said Vivian , turning over a bundle of Stewart Newton 's beauties , languishing , and lithographed . 
by the bye , Mr. Grey , who is the author of Tremaine ? '' 
`` You 're really so giddy , Mr. Grey , -- I wish you could get me an autograph of Mr. Washington Irving ; I want it for a particular friend . '' 
Mr. Grey . '' 
`` Who was that , Mr. Grey ? '' 
`` Mr. Grey ! '' 
`` Mr. Grey ! 
said Vivian , writing ; `` I knew him well in London . 
`` I think there 's nothing more pleasant , Mr. Grey , than talking over the season in the country , in August . '' 
''' `` Do you know Mr. Croker , Mr. Grey ? '' 
`` Pray , Mr. Grey , is it true that all the houses in Russell-square are tenantless ? '' 
`` Good gracious , Mr. Grey ! '' 
`` Mr. Grey , I really can not listen to such nonsense one moment longer . 
Now , you shall act the spirit , and I , Vivian Grey . 
Mr. Grey , I really beg your pardon ! '' 
`` Say you are engaged with the Marchioness , '' whispered Vivian , with a low but distinct voice ; his eyes fixed on the table , and his lips not appearing to move . 
You see I must go , Mr. Grey . '' 
Mr. Grey , acting the Solitaire in the park . 
-- and by the bye , Mr. Grey , as I am here , I may as well advise you not to spoil all the Marquess 's timber , by carving a certain person 's name on his park trees . 
The next morning at breakfast , Vivian was surprised to find that the Manvers party was suddenly about to leave the Castle . 
All were disconsolate at their departure , for there was to be a grand entertainment at Château Desir that very day ; but particularly Mrs. Felix Lorraine , and Mr. Vivian Grey . 
Vivian was springing forward to press her hand , and bear her to the carriage , when Mrs. Felix Lorraine -- seized his arm , vowed she was going to faint , and , ere she could recover herself , or loosen her grasp , the Manvers , -- were gone . 
Vivian rode out alone , immediately after breakfast , to cure his melancholy by a hard gallop . 
He left his horse to choose its own road ; and , at length , he found himself plunging in a corn field . 
Vivian turned round , and recognized a friend in the person of a substantial and neighbouring farmer . 
is it you , Mr. Grey ? 
As Vivian was returning home , he intended to look in at a pretty cottage near the park , where lived one John Conyers , an honest husbandman , and a great friend of Vivian 's . 
asked Vivian of a little Conyers , who was sobbing bitterly at the cottage door . 
Vivian entered the cottage , -- but , oh ! 
Vivian walked up with a silent step to the end of the room , where John Conyers was sitting . 
exclaimed Vivian . 
There was no answer , nor did the miserable man appear in the slightest degree to be sensible of Vivian 's presence . 
There was such an unnatural fire in his eyes , that Vivian 's spirit almost quailed . 
Any one , but Vivian Grey , would have fled the house . 
His alarm was not decreased when he perceived , that the master of the cottage did not recognize him . 
The wife was advancing , but Vivian waved his hand to her to withdraw , and she accordingly fell into the back ground ; but her fixed eye did not leave her husband for a second . 
`` John Conyers , it is your friend , Mr. Vivian Grey , who is here , '' said Vivian . 
`` Grey ! '' 
moaned the husbandman , `` Grey ! 
said Vivian advancing , and with a tone which Vivian Grey could alone assume . 
and Vivian dared to touch him . 
His hand was not repulsed . 
After all , a little management will set every thing right , '' and he took the husbandman 's sturdy hand . 
Come , come , there 's a man , cheer up and look about you , and let the sunbeam enter your cottage : '' and Vivian beckoned to the wife to open the closed shutter . 
said Vivian , `` we 'll soon have chairs and tables again . 
Vivian could scarcely hold down the powerful , and convulsed , frame of Conyers on his rugged seat ; but the wife advanced from the back of the room , and her husband 's head rested against her bosom . 
Vivian held his honest hand , and the eldest girl rose unbidden from her silent sorrow , and clung to her father 's knee . 
`` There , there , there 's a man , all is now well ; '' and Vivian left him resting on his wife 's bosom . 
`` Here , you curly-headed rascal , scamper down to the village immediately , and bring up a basket of something to eat ; and tell Morgan Price , that Mr. Grey says he 's to send up a couple of beds , and some chairs here immediately , and some plates and dishes , and every thing else , and do n't forget a bottle of wine ; '' so saying , Vivian flung the urchin a sovereign . 
As for the rent , John Conyers , do not waste this trifle on that , '' whispered Vivian , slipping his purse into his hand , `` for I 'll see Stapylton Toad , and get time . 
There , that will do famously , '' said Vivian , fanning the flame with his hat . 
All this time the Marquess of Carabas had wanted Vivian Grey twenty times , but that gentleman had not appeared . 
The important moment arrived , and his Lordship offered his arm to Mrs. Million , who , as the Gotha Almanack says , `` takes precedence of all Archduchesses , Grand Duchesses , Duchesses , Princesses , Landgravines , Margravines , Palsgravines , & c. & c. & c. '' In their passage to the Hall , the Marquess and Mrs. Million met Vivian Grey , booted and spurred , and covered with mud . 
-- Mrs. Million -- Mr. Vivian Grey . 
said Vivian , bowing to the ground to the lady . 
`` That is Mr. Vivian Grey , the most monstrous clever young man , and nicest fellow I know . '' 
`` He does indeed seem a very nice young man , '' said Mrs. Million ; for she rather admired Vivian 's precocious taste for liqueurs . 
In process of time , Mr. Vivian Grey made his entrée . 
`` Beautiful Cynthia , '' said Vivian Grey , softly and sweetly whispering in Miss Courtown 's ear , `` I 'm sure you will give up your place to me ; you have nerve enough , you know , for any thing , and would no more care for standing out , than I for sitting in . 
Grey , is it you ? 
Dormer Stanhope , room must be made for Grey , or I shall leave the table immediately ; -- you men ! '' 
Dr. Sly , who was flourishing an immense carving-knife and fork , preparatory to dissecting a very gorgeous haunch , had these fearful instruments suddenly precipitated into a trifle , from whose sugared trellice-work he found great difficulty in extricating them ; while Miss Gusset , who was on the point of cooling herself with some exquisite iced jelly , found her frigid portion as suddenly transformed into a plate of peculiarly ardent curry , the property , but a moment before , of old Colonel Rangoon . 
said Vivian . 
Vivian glanced a look , which would have been annihilation to any one , not a freeholder of five hundred acres . 
Dormer , who was , as Vivian well knew , something of an epicure , looked rather annoyed , but by this time he was accustomed to Vivian Grey , and sent him the portion he had intended for himself -- could epicure do more ? 
asked Vivian . 
Mr. Grey -- I 'm quite rejoiced to see you . 
`` I think , by the style , '' continued Vivian , `` that it 's by Goëthe . 
asked Vivian , with the most innocent and inquiring face . 
` I always think that those are the two most admirable lines in your Lordship 's poem , '' said Vivian . 
His Lordship did not exactly remember them : it would have been a wonder if he had : -- but he thought Vivian Grey the most delightful fellow he ever met , and determined to ask him to Helicon Castle , for the Christmas holidays . 
said Vivian , as he dwelt upon the flavour of the Rhine 's glory . 
`` Oh , Vivian Grey , you little love ! 
exclaimed a lady who was sitting at the side opposite Vivian , but much higher in the table . 
let 's drink his health ; '' and the Baronet 's recovery was quaffed by the lady , and Vivian , with a very piquant expression of countenance . 
asked Vivian of his neighbour . 
Before he could receive an answer , he was again rattling on : -- `` This hall is bearable to dine in ; but I once breakfasted here , and I never shall forget the ludicrous effect produced by the sun through the oriel window . 
`` May I have the honour of taking a glass of Champagne with you , Mr. Grey ? '' 
`` Mr. Grey , indeed ! '' 
muttered Vivian : `` Sir , I never drink anything but brandy . '' 
`` Cynthia Courtown , '' whispered Vivian with a sepulchral voice , '' 't is all over with me -- I 've been thinking what could come next . 
said Vivian , turning to a servant , `` Go , and enquire if Mr. Stapylton Toad dines at the Castle to-day . '' 
The gentlemen made a general `` move up , '' and Vivian found himself opposite his friend , Mr. Hargrave . 
`` Mr. Metternich Scribe -- Mr. Vivian Grey ! '' 
and here Mr. Hargrave introduced Vivian to an effeminate-looking , perfumed , young man , with a handsome , unmeaning face , and very white hands . 
said Vivian : `` well , it does your office credit . 
The dismayed young gentleman of the Foreign Office was about to mince a repartee , when Vivian left his seat , for he had a great deal of business to transact . 
`` Mr. Leverton , '' said he , accosting a flourishing grazier , `` I have received a letter from my friend , M. De Noé . 
Vivian Grey was holding an earnest conversation in one of the recesses with Mr. Stapylton Toad . 
Although they agreed upon the main points , and Vivian 's ideas upon this important subject had , of course , been adopted after studying with intenseness Mr. Toad 's `` most luminous and convincing pamphlet , '' still there were a few minor points , on which Vivian `` was obliged to confess , '' that `` he did not exactly see his way . '' 
`` I think , Mr. Grey , you must admit , that that definition of labour is the correct one ? '' 
said Mr. Toad , looking earnestly in Vivian 's face , his finger just presuming to feel a button . 
`` That exertion of mind or body , which is not the involuntary effect of the influence of natural sensations , '' slowly repeated Vivian , as if his whole soul was concentrated in each monosyllable -- `` Y -- e -- s , Mr. Toad , I do admit it . '' 
`` Although I admit the correctness of your definition , Mr. Toad , I am not free to confess , that I am ex -- act -- ly convinced of the soundness of your conclusion , '' said Vivian , in a very musing mood . 
`` But , my dear Sir , I am surprised that you do n't see , that -- '' `` Stop , Mr. Toad , '' eagerly exclaimed Vivian , `` I see my error . 
`` I was confident that I should convince you , Mr. Grey . '' 
When but a boy , I remember at my father 's table , the late Marquess of Almacks -- '' `` Yes , Mr. Grey . '' 
yes , poor dear man ; but you were observing , Mr. Grey -- '' `` Ay , ay ! 
` If you want any information , ' said his lordship , ` on such points , there is only one man in the kingdom whom you should consult , and he 's one of the soundest heads I know , and that 's Stapylton Toad , the member for Mounteney ; ' you know you were in for Mounteney then , Mr. Toad . '' 
`` Ay , and much more , which I scarcely can remember ; '' and then followed a long dissertation on the character of the noble statesman , and his views as to the agricultural interest , and the importance of the agricultural interest ; and then a delicate hint was thrown out , as to `` how delightful it would be to write a pamphlet together , '' on this mighty agricultural interest ; and then came an éloge on the character of country gentlemen , and English yeomen , and the importance of keeping up the old English spirit in the peasantry , & c. & c. & c. & c. ; and then , when Vivian had led Mr. Toad to deliver a most splendid and patriotic oration on this point , he `` just remembered , -LRB- quite apropos to the sentiments which Mr. Toad had just delivered , and which he did not hesitate to say , ` did equal honour to his head and heart , ' -RRB- that there was a little point , which , if it was not trespassing too much on Mr. Toad 's attention , he would just submit to him ; '' and then he mentioned poor John Conyers ' case , although `` he felt convinced from Mr. Toad 's wellknown benevolent character , that it was quite unnecessary for him to do so , as he felt assured that it would be remedied immediately it fell under his cognizance , but then Mr. Toad had really so much business to transact , that perhaps these slight matters might occasionally not be submitted to him , '' & c. & c. & c . 
What could Stapylton Toad do but , after a little amiable grumbling about `` bad system , and bad precedent , '' promise every thing that Vivian Grey required ? 
`` Mr. Vivian Grey , '' said Mrs. Felix Lorraine , `` I can not understand why you 've been talking to Mr. Toad so long ; will you waltz ? '' 
Before Vivian could answer , a tittering , so audible that , considering the rank of the parties , it might almost be termed a loud shout , burst forth from the whole room . 
The sensation which this incident occasioned , favoured Vivian 's escape from Mrs. Felix , for he had not left Mr. Stapylton Toad with any intention of waltzing . 
Vivian extricated himself with as much grace as possible from the toils of the Economist , and indeed , like a skilful general , turned this little rencontre to account , in accomplishing the very end , for the attainment of which he had declined waltzing with Mrs. Felix Lorraine . 
`` My Lord , '' said Vivian , addressing the Marquess , who was still by the side of Mrs. Million , `` I am going to commit a most ungallant act ; but you great men must pay a tax for your dignity . 
They have deputed me to request your assistance , to save them from being defeated in the presence of half their tenantry ; and I think , my Lord , '' said Vivian , with a very serious voice , `` if you could possibly contrive to interfere , it would be desirable . 
Apologising to Mrs. Million , and promising to return as soon as possible , and lead her to the music room , the Marquess retired , with the determination of annihilating one of the stoutest members of the Political Economy club . 
Vivian began by apologising to Mrs. Million , for disturbing her progress to the hall , by his sudden arrival before dinner ; and then for a quarter of an hour was poured forth the usual quantity of piquant anecdotes , and insidious compliments . 
Mrs. Million found Vivian 's conversation no disagreeable relief to the pompous prosiness of the late attaché , and , although no brilliant star dangled at his breast , she could not refrain from feeling extremely pleased . 
And now , having succeeded in commanding Mrs. Million 's attention by that general art of pleasing , which was for all the world , and which was of course , formed upon his general experience of human nature , -- Vivian began to make his advances to Mrs. Million 's feelings , by a particular art of pleasing ; that is , an art which was for the particular person alone , whom he was at any time addressing , and which was founded on his particular knowledge of that person 's character . 
said Vivian ; `` I once thought so myself , but I confess that my opinion is greatly changed . 
said Mrs. Million ; and she thought of herself , sitting the most considered personage in this grand castle , and yet with sufficiently base blood flowing in her veins . 
`` And thus , in the highest circles , '' continued Vivian , `` a man is of course not valued because he is a Marquess , or a Duke ; but because he is a great warrior , or a great statesman , or very fashionable , or very witty . 
`` I quite agree with you in your sentiments , Mr. Grey . 
So mused Mrs. Million , and she made a thousand vows , not to let a day pass over , without obtaining a pledge from Vivian Grey , to visit her on their return to the metropolis . 
Vivian remained in his seat for some time after the departure of his companion . 
He rose to offer his arm to some stray fair one ; for crowds were now hurrying to pine apples and lobster salads : that is to say , supper was ready in the LONG GALLERY . 
In a moment Vivian 's arm was locked in that of Mrs. Felix Lorraine . 
`` Oh , Mr. Grey , I have got a much better ghost story than even that of the Leyden Professor for you ; but I 'm so wearied with waltzing , that I must tell it you to-morrow . 
asked Vivian 's companion , with a very significant look . 
I 'm sure the Marchioness is not aware how she tries my patience about that little wretch Julie ; -- I had to rub her with warm flannels for an hour and a-half , before the fire this morning ; -- that 's that Vivian Grey 's doing . '' 
`` Who is this Mr. Grey , Miss Graves ? '' 
`` Yes , that was Vivian Grey again , '' said Miss Graves , very indignantly . 
he learnt that from his uncle , '' said Miss Graves -- `` it 's quite disgusting to see how that Vivian Grey encourages him . '' 
I hate that Lady Julia , if it 's only for petting Vivian Grey so . 
She positively called him `` little love '' -- very flighty , and sickening . '' 
Vivian had duly acquainted the Marquess with the successful progress of his negotiations with their intended partizans , and his Lordship himself had conversed with them singly on the important subject . 
It was thought proper , however , in this stage of the proceedings , that the parties interested should meet together , and so the two Lords , and Sir Berdmore , and Vivian , were invited to dine with the Marquess alone , and in his library . 
His Lordship 's conduct did not escape the hawk eye of one of his guests , and Vivian Grey was rather annoyed at seeing the Marquess 's glass so frequently refilled . 
-LRB- Vivian , my boy , you 'll find Champagne on the waiter behind you . -RRB- 
Mr. Vivian Grey , a gentleman with whom you are all acquainted , -- Mr. Vivian Grey is younger than myself , or you , my Lord Courtown , or you , my Lord Beaconsfield , or even you , I believe , Sir Berdmore . 
Mr. Vivian Grey has consequently better lungs than any of us , and he will , I make no doubt , do , what I would , if I were of his age , explain the whole business to us all ; and now my Lords , and Gentlemen , let us have a glass of Champagne . '' 
When the brains of the party were tolerably elevated , Vivian addressed them . 
The tenor of his oration may be imagined . 
He developed the new political principles , demonstrated the mistake under the baneful influence of which they had so long suffered , promised them place , and power , and patronage , and personal consideration , if they would only act on the principles which he recommended , in the most flowing language , and the most melodious voice , in which the glories of ambition were ever yet chaunted . 
There was a buzz of admiration when the flattering music ceased ; the Marquess smiled triumphantly , as if to say , `` Did n't I tell you he was a monstrous clever fellow ? '' 
Lord Courtown gave in a bumper , `` Mr. Vivian Grey , and success to his maiden speech ; '' and Vivian dashed off a tumbler of Champagne to `` the New Union , '' and certainly the whole party were in extreme good spirits . 
At last , Sir Berdmore , the coolest of them all , raised his voice : `` He quite agreed with Mr. Grey in the principles which he had developed ; and , for his own part , he was free to confess , that he had the most perfect confidence in that gentleman 's very brilliant abilities , and augured from their exertion the most complete and triumphant success . 
At the same time , he felt it his duty to remark to their Lordships , and also to that gentleman , that the House of Commons was a new scene to him ; and he put it , whether they were quite convinced that they were sufficiently strong , as regarded talent in that assembly . 
Mr. Grey might be capable of undertaking that charge , but still , it must be remembered , that , in that assembly , he was , as yet , untried . 
He made no apology to Mr. Grey for speaking his mind so freely ; he was sure that his motives could not be misinterpreted . 
If their Lordships , on the whole , were of opinion that this charge should be entrusted to him , he , Sir Berdmore , having the greatest confidence in Mr. Grey 's abilities , would certainly support him to the utmost . '' 
`` He can do any thing , '' shouted the Marquess ; who was now quite tipsy . 
`` He 's a surprising clever man ! '' 
`` Stop , my Lords , '' burst forth Vivian , `` your good opinion deserves my gratitude , but these important matters do indeed require a moment 's consideration . 
`` Gentlemen , '' said Vivian , `` do not despair ; it 's enough for me to know that there is a man who is capable of doing our work . 
The pledge was , however , accepted ; and the Marquess and Vivian were left alone . 
The worthy Peer , though terrifically tipsy , seemed quite overcome by Vivian 's offer and engagement . 
`` Vivian , my boy ! 
No , no , your memory , Vivian , 's very bad ; it was Lord Courtown : did n't you hear him say that Frederick Cleveland was Lucifer . 
To think of you , Vivian Grey ; you , a respectable young man , with a worthy and respectable father ; to think of you leaving your card at -- the Devil 's ! 
thought Vivian ; `` I 'm sure that Lucifer may know , for I do not . 
Vivian accordingly proceeded along the balcony , which extended down one whole side of the Château . 
While he was looking at the moon he stumbled against some one . 
It was impossible , therefore , for two minds to have been cultivated on more contrary systems , than those of Frederick Cleveland and Vivian Grey . 
With that of Vivian Grey the reader is now somewhat acquainted . 
It has been shown that he was one precociously convinced of the necessity of managing mankind by studying their tempers and humouring their weaknesses . 
Cleveland turned from the Book of Nature with contempt ; and although his was a mind of extraordinary acuteness , he was , at three-and-thirty , as ignorant of the workings of the human heart , as when , in the innocence of boyhood , he first reached Eton . 
The inaptitude of his nature to consult the feelings , or adopt the sentiments of others , was visible in his slightest actions . 
He was the only man who ever passed three years in Germany , and in a German University , who had never yielded to the magic influence of a Meerschaum ; and the same inflexibility of character which prevented him from smoking in Germany , attracted in Italy the loud contempt of those accomplished creatures -- the Anglo-Italians . 
With the aid of soda-water and Mr. Sadler , Vivian had succeeded , the morning after the Cabinet-dinner , in getting the Marquess up at a tolerably early hour ; and , after having been closeted with his Lordship for a considerable time , he left Château Desir . 
Vivian travelled night and day , until he stopped at Kenrich Lodge . 
After some deliberation , he despatched a note to Mr. Cleveland , informing him , `` that he -LRB- Mr. Grey -RRB- was the bearer , from England , to Mr. Cleveland , of a ` communication of importance . ' 
The note produced the desired effect ; and an appointment was made for Mr. Grey to call at Kenrich Lodge on the following morning . 
Vivian , as he entered the room , took a rapid glance at the master of Kenrich Lodge . 
He came forward to receive Vivian , with a Newfoundland dog on one side , and a large black greyhound on the other ; and the two animals , after having elaborately examined the stranger , divided between them the luxuries of the rug . 
The reception which Mr. Cleveland gave our hero , was cold and constrained in the extreme , but it did not appear to be purposely uncivil ; and Vivian flattered himself that his manner was not unusually stiff . 
`` I have the honour of being the son of Mr. Grey . '' 
I had the pleasure of his acquaintance when I was in London many years ago , at a time when Mr. Vivian Grey was not entrusted , I rather imagine , with missions ` of importance '`` -- Although Mr. Cleveland smiled when he said this , his smile was anything but a gracious one . 
Vivian had , unbidden , seated himself by the side of Mr. Cleveland 's library-table ; and , not knowing exactly how to proceed , was employing himself by making a calculation , whether there were more black than white spots on the body of the old Newfoundland , who was now apparently most happily slumbering . 
Now this was precisely the thing which Vivian had determined not to do ; and so he diplomatised , in order to gain time . 
`` As to the purport or nature of the communication , it is , '' said Vivian , with one of his sweetest cadences , and , looking up to Mr. Cleveland 's face , with an eye expressive of all kindness , -- `` it is of a political nature . '' 
`` When we take into consideration , Mr Cleveland , the present aspect of the political world ; when we call to mind the present situation of the two great political parties , you will not be surprised , I feel confident , when I mention that certain personages have thought that the season was at hand , when a move might be made in the political world with very considerable effect -- '' `` Mr. Grey , what am I to understand ? '' 
`` I feel confident , Mr. Cleveland , that I am doing very imperfect justice to the mission with which I am intrusted ; but , Sir , you must be aware that the delicate nature of such disclosures , and -- '' `` Mr. Grey , I feel confident that you do not doubt my honour ; and , as for the rest , the world has , I believe , some foolish tales about me ; but , believe me , you shall be listened to with patience . 
I am certain that , whatever may be the communication , Mr. Vivian Grey is a gentleman , who will do its merits justice . '' 
And now Vivian , having succeeded in exciting Cleveland 's curiosity , and securing himself the certainty of a hearing , and having also made a favourable impression , dropped the diplomatist altogether , and was explicit enough for a Spartan . 
`` Mr. Grey , I have promised to listen to you with patience : -- you are too young a man to know much perhaps of the history of so insignificant a personage as myself ; otherwise , you would have been aware , that there is no subject in the world on which I am less inclined to converse , than that of politics . 
`` Well , '' thought Vivian , `` it must out at last ; and so to it boldly . 
Now , Mr. Grey , speak to me with the frankness which one high-bred gentleman should use to another ; -- is the Marquess of Carabas privy to this application ? '' 
Mr. Grey , I am a man spare of my speech to those with whom I am unacquainted ; and the world calls me a soured , malicious man . 
`` Mr. Cleveland , '' said Vivian -- and the drop which glistened in his eye , responded to the tear of passion which slowly quivered down his companion 's cheek , -- `` I am grateful for your kindness ; and although we shall most probably part , in a few hours , never to meet again , I will speak to you with the frankness which you have merited , and to which I feel you are entitled . 
Vivian ceased . 
Cleveland heard him , with his head resting on both his arms . 
He started at the last expression , and something like a blush suffused his cheek , but he did not reply . 
At last he jumped up , and rang the bell . 
`` Come , come , Mr. Grey , '' said he , `` enough of politics for this morning . 
Even we cottagers have a bed for a friend , Mr. Grey : -- come , and I 'll introduce you to my wife . '' 
And Vivian was now an inmate of Kenrich Lodge . 
The nature of the business on which Vivian was his guest , rendered confidence necessary ; confidence begets kindness . 
In a few days , Vivian necessarily became more acquainted with Mr. Cleveland 's disposition , and situation , than if they had been acquainted for as many years ; in short , They talked with open heart and tongue , Affectionate and true , A pair of friends . 
Vivian , for some time , dwelt upon every thing but the immediate subject of his mission ; but when , after the experience of a few days , their hearts were open to each other , and they had mutually begun to discover , that there was a most astonishing similarity in their principles , their tastes , their feelings , then the magician poured forth his incantation , and raised the once-laid ghost of Cleveland 's ambition . 
asked Mrs. Felix Lorraine of Vivian , immediately on his return , `` and what colour are his eyes ? '' 
asked Vivian with an arch smile . 
-- Vivian redeemed his pledge : Mr. Cleveland arrived . 
Vivian made one or two ineffectual struggles to bring the Marquess to a business-like habit of mind , but his Lordship never dared trust himself alone with Cleveland , and indeed almost lost the power of speech when in presence of the future leader of his party ; so , in the morning , the Marquess played off the two lords , and the Baronet against his former friend , and then to compensate for not meeting Mr. Cleveland in the morning , he was particularly courteous to him at dinner-time , and asked him always `` how he liked his ride ? '' 
It was a September day , and to escape from the excessive heat of the sun , and at the same time to enjoy the freshness of the air , Vivian was writing his letters in the conservatory , which opened into one of the drawing-rooms . 
The numerous party , which then honoured the Château with their presence , were out , as he conceived , on a pic nic excursion to the Elfin 's Well , a beautiful spot about ten miles off ; and among the adventurers were , as he imagined , Mrs. Felix Lorraine , and Mr. Cleveland . 
Vivian was rather surprised at hearing voices in the adjoining room , and he was still more so , when , on looking round , he found that the sounds proceeded from the very two individuals whom he thought were far away . 
Some tall American plants concealed him from their view , but he observed all that passed distinctly , and a singular scene it was . 
Mr. Vivian Grey agreed to stay another fortnight , at the particular request of the Marquess . 
Very few days had passed , ere Vivian was exceedingly struck at the decided change which suddenly took place in his Lordship 's general behaviour towards him . 
This rapid change alarmed , as much as it astonished Vivian , and he mentioned his feelings and observations to Mrs. Felix Lorraine . 
That lady agreed with him , that something certainly was wrong , but could not , unfortunately , afford him any clue to the mystery . 
In spite , however , of her well-expressed anxiety , Vivian had his own ideas on the subject ; and , determined to unravel the affair , he had recourse to a person , with whom he seldom interchanged a sentence -- the Marchioness . 
`` I think , '' continued Vivian , `` I shall take a ride to-day . 
Mr. Grey , I do n't know what you 've done to him , '' said her Ladyship , settling at least a dozen bracelets ; `` but -- but -- `` But what , my lady ? '' 
`` He thinks -- he thinks -- '' `` Thinks what , my lady ? '' 
`` That you 've entered into a conspiracy , Mr. Grey . '' 
Mr. Grey , a conspiracy -- a conspiracy against the Marquess of Carabas , with Mr. Cleveland . 
Not that I think so , Mr. Grey ; I 'm sure your conduct to me has been most courteous -- the blue and silver next to the maroon , did you say ? 
You 'll remember the pretty poodle , Mr. Grey ? 
`` Mrs. Felix Lorraine , I am your most obedient slave , '' said Vivian Grey , as he met that lady on the landing-place ; -- `` I can see no reason why I should not drive you this bright day to the Elfin 's Well ; we have long had an engagement together . '' 
`` If you found a martingale for the mother , Vivian , it had been well if you had found a curb for the daughter . 
Mrs. Felix , '' exclaimed Vivian , `` I told your admirable story of the Leyden Professor to Mrs. Cleveland . 
-- Do you know , Mr. Grey , I have such an interesting packet from Germany to-day ; from my cousin , Baron Rodenstein ; but I must keep all the stories for the evening ; -- come to my boudoir , and I will read them to you -- there is one tale which I am sure will make a convert even of you . 
said Mrs. Felix , showing Vivian a very small miniature which was attached to a chain round her neck . 
Mr. Grey , this is a fair work of art , but if you had but seen the prototype , you would have gazed on this as on a dim and washed out drawing . 
There was one portrait , indeed , which did him more justice -- but then , that portrait was not the production of mortal pencil . '' 
Vivian looked at his companion with a somewhat astonished air , but Mrs. Felix Lorraine 's countenance was as little indicative of jesting , as that of the young student whose miniature rested on her bosom . 
`` I 'm afraid I shall weary you with my stories , but the one I am about to tell is so well evidenced , that I think even Mr. Vivian Grey will hear it without a sneer . '' 
asked Vivian . 
There was something so singular in the tone of Mrs. Felix Lorraine 's voice , and so peculiar in the expression of her countenance , as she uttered these words , that the jest died on Vivian 's tongue ; and for want of something better to do , he lashed the little poneys , who were already scampering at their full speed . 
`` Ay , no doubt ; but how came you , lady fair , to imagine that I was also a person to be dreaded by his Lordship -- I , Vivian Grey ? '' 
`` Now , madam , listen to me once more , '' and Vivian grasped her hand -- `` What has passed between you and Mr. Cleveland , it is not for me to enquire -- I give you my word of honour , that he never even mentioned your name to me . 
Vivian drove rapidly home , and endeavoured to talk in his usual tone , and with his usual spirit ; but his companion could not be excited . 
Once , ay twice , she pressed his hand , and as he assisted her from the phaeton , she murmured something like a -- blessing . 
Vivian had to give some directions about the poneys ; Gypsey was ill , or Fanny had a cold , or something of the kind , and so he was detained for about a quarter of an hour before the house , speaking most learnedly to grooms , and consulting on cases with a skilled gravity worthy of Professor Coleman . 
Tired with his drive , Vivian Grey was leaning on the mantel-piece , with his eyes vacantly gazing on the looking-glass which rested on the marble slab . 
It was by pure accident that , reflected in the mirror , he distinctly beheld Mrs. Felix Lorraine open a small silver box , and throw some powder into the tumbler which she was preparing for him . 
She was leaning down , with her back almost turned to the glass , but still Vivian saw it -- distinctly . 
A sickness came over him , and ere he could recover himself , his Hebe tapped him on the shoulder -- `` Here , drink , drink while it is effervescent . '' 
`` I can not drink , '' said Vivian , `` I am not thirsty -- I am too hot -- I am anything -- '' `` How foolish you are ! 
Here , Fidele , you look thirsty enough -- come here -- '' `` Mr. Grey , I do not mix tumblers for dogs , '' said the lady , rather agitated : `` if you will not take it , '' and she held it once more before him , `` here it goes for ever . '' 
This last specimen of Mrs. Felix Lorraine was somewhat too much , even for the steeled nerves of Vivian Grey , and he sought his chamber for relief . 
He flung himself upon his bed , and felt for a moment as if he had quaffed the poisoned draught so lately offered . 
Your boasted knowledge of human nature shall not again stand you in stead ; for , mark me , from henceforward , Vivian Grey 's conduct towards you shall have no precedent in human nature . '' 
As Vivian re-entered the drawing-room , he met a servant carrying in the globe of gold and silver fishes . 
`` What , still in your pelisse , Mrs. Lorraine , '' said Vivian . 
drawled out Vivian ; and he yawned , and was most provokingly uncommunicative . 
`` Come , come , Mr. Grey , do tell me . '' 
Come , let us walk together in the conservatory : '' so saying , he took the lady by the hand , and they left the room . 
`` And now for the letter , Mr. Grey ! '' 
`` Ay , now for the letter ; '' and Vivian slowly drew an epistle from his pocket , and there-from read some exceedingly sweet passages , which made Mrs. Felix Lorraine 's very heart 's blood tingle . 
Considering that Vivian Grey had never in his life received a single letter from Mr. Cleveland , this was tolerably well : but he was always an admirable Improvisatore ! 
I am heroic in saying all this , Mrs. Lorraine ; there was a time , when -- -LRB- and here Vivian seemed so agitated that he could scarcely proceed -RRB- -- there was a time when I could have called that man -- liar ! 
who would have prophesied that Vivian Grey could have assisted another in rivetting the affections of Mrs. Felix Lorraine ; -- but enough of this . 
Do not think of him , my dear Mr. Grey , '' said Mrs. Felix , with a countenance beaming with smiles . 
`` Well , I will not ; and I 'll try to behave like a man ; like a man of the world , I should say : but indeed you must excuse the warm feelings of a youth : and truly , when I call to mind the first days of our acquaintance , and then remember that our moon-lit walks are gone for ever -- and that our -- '' `` Nay , do not believe so , my dear Vivian ; believe me , as I ever shall be , your friend , your -- '' `` I will , I will , my dear , my own Amalia ! '' 
Vivian Grey was leaning against an old beech tree in the most secluded part of the park , and was gazing on the moon . 
If I were a metaphysician , I would tell you why Vivian Grey had been gazing two hours on the moon , for I could then present you with a most logical programme of the march of his ideas , since he whispered his last honied speech in the ear of Mrs. Felix Lorraine , at dinner time , until this very moment , when he did not even remember that such a being as Mrs. Felix Lorraine breathed . 
It was past midnight , and Vivian was at a considerable distance from the Château . 
He proposed entering by a side-door , which led into the billiard-room , and from thence crossing the Long Gallery , he could easily reach his apartment , without disturbing any of the household . 
His way led through the little gate , at which he had parted with Mrs. Felix Lorraine on the first day of their meeting . 
As he softly opened the door which led into the Long Gallery , he found he was not alone . 
Her profile was to Vivian as he entered , and the moon , which shone bright through the window , lit up a countenance , which he might be excused for not immediately recognising as that of Mrs. Felix Lorraine . 
Vivian scarcely knew whether to stay or to retire . 
Desirous not to disturb her , he determined not even to breathe ; and , as is generally the case , his very exertions to be silent made him nervous ; and to save himself from being stifled , he coughed . 
Mrs. Lorraine immediately started , and stared wildly around her ; and when her eye caught Vivian 's , there was a sound in her throat something like the death rattle . 
`` A friend , and Vivian Grey . '' 
`` Grey ! 
and she rushed forward and wildly seized his hand -- and then she muttered to herself , '' 't is flesh -- 't is flesh . '' 
Mrs. Lorraine stared earnestly at him , and then she endeavoured to assume her usual expression of countenance ; but the effort was too much for her . 
She dropped Vivian 's arm , and buried her face in her own hands . 
Vivian was retiring , when she again looked up . 
`` Pardon me , my dear Mrs. Lorraine , I really have been gaping for the last hour , '' said Vivian , and he moved on . 
`` Mr. Grey ! 
and she led Vivian to the window : `` what see you ? '' 
`` Yet , Vivian , where is the being for whom all this beauty existeth ? 
For whom , then , Vivian Grey , is this scene so fair ? '' 
If the future had been revealed to my great ancestor , the Lord Valerian , think you , Vivian Grey , that we should have been walking in this long gallery ? '' 
`` You may sneer , sir ; but I ask you , if there are spirits so superior to that of the slumbering Lord of this castle , as those of Vivian Grey and Amalia Lorraine ; why may there not be spirits proportionately superior to our own ? '' 
`` If you are keeping me from my bed , Mrs. Lorraine , merely to lecture my conceit by proving that there are in this world wiser heads than that of Vivian Grey , on my honour , madam , you are giving yourself a great deal of unnecessary trouble . '' 
And here she grasped Vivian with a feverish hand -- `` Omnipotent , and ineffable essence ! 
-- It is not true , Vivian Grey ; you are but echoing the world 's deceit , and even at this hour of the night , thou darest not speak as thou dost think . 
And truly when I do gaze upon thy radiant eyes , '' and here the lady 's tone became more terrestrial , -- `` and truly when I do look upon thy luxuriant curls , '' and here the lady 's small white hand played like lightning through Vivian 's dark hair , -- `` and truly when I do remember the beauty of thy all-perfect form , I can not deem thy self-worship -- a false idolatry ; '' and here the lady 's arms were locked round Vivian 's neck , and her head rested on his bosom . 
't is the madness of the fascinated bird ; 't is the madness of the murderer who is voluntarily broken on the wheel ; 't is the madness of the fawn , that gazes with adoration on the lurid glare of the anaconda 's eye ; 't is the madness of woman who flies to the arms of her -- Fate ; '' and here she sprang like a tigress round Vivian 's neck , her long light hair bursting from its bands , and clustering down her shoulders . 
And here was Vivian Grey , at past midnight , in this old gallery , with this wild woman clinging round his neck . 
The figures in the ancient tapestry looked living in the moon , and immediately opposite him was one compartment of some old mythological tale , in which were represented , grinning , in grim majesty , -- the Fates . 
As the blue sky was gradually being covered , the gigantic figures of Clotho , Lachesis , and Atropos , became as gradually dimmer , and dimmer , and the grasp of Vivian 's fearful burthen looser , and looser . 
At last the moon was entirely hid , the figures of the Fates vanished , and Mrs. Felix Lorraine sank lifeless into his arms . 
Vivian groped his way with difficulty to the nearest window , the very one at which she was leaning , when he first entered the gallery . 
He played with her wild curls ; he whispered to her in a voice sweeter than the sweetest serenade ; but she only raised her eyes from his breast , and stared wildly at him , and then clung round his neck with , if possible , a tighter grasp . 
For nearly half an hour did Vivian stand leaning against the window , with his mystic and motionless companion . 
`` What would you give , Vivian Grey , to read that star ? '' 
asked Vivian , with a serious tone , for he thought it necessary to humour his companion . 
slowly murmured Mrs. Lorraine , and then she started ; but Vivian seized her arms , and prevented her from again clasping his neck . 
`` I must keep these pretty hands close prisoners , '' he said , smiling , `` unless you promise to behave with more moderation . 
and holding her hands in one of his , he wound his arm round her waist , and whispered her such words , as he thought might calm her troubled spirit . 
The wildness of her eyes gradually gave way ; at length , she raised them to Vivian with a look of meek tenderness , and her head sank upon his breast . 
`` It shines , it shines , it shines , Vivian ! '' 
Oh , Vivian ! 
`` Oh , Vivian ! 
`` Oh , Vivian ! 
Vivian , there is a custom in my native land -- the world calls it an unhallowed one ; you , in your proud spirit , will call it a vain one . 
Vivian , I have been too long a searcher after this fearful science ; and this very night , agitated in spirit , I sought yon water . 
Here Mrs. Lorraine writhed in Vivian 's arms ; her features were moulded in the same unnatural expression as when he first entered the gallery , and the hideous grin was again sculptured on her countenance . 
Her whole frame was in such a state of agitation , that she rose up and down in Vivian 's arms ; and it was only with the exertion of his whole strength , that he could retain her . 
Vivian gazed on her in a state of momentary stupefaction , for the extraordinary scene had begun to influence his own nerves . 
And now he heard the tread of distant feet , and a light shone through the key-hole of the nearest door . 
In desperation Vivian caught the lady up in his arms , and dashing out of an opposite door bore her to her chamber . 
When Vivian awoke in the morning , he found a note upon his pillow . 
`` A -- '' `` Did you hear the shriek last night , Mr. Grey ? '' 
asked the Marchioness , as Vivian entered the breakfast-room . 
Mr. Grey , did you hear the shriek ? '' 
`` My dear Marchioness , '' continued Vivian , `` see there -- I 've kept my promise -- there 's your bracelet . 
Mr. Grey , I 'm afraid she 'll be ill again . '' 
`` I thought she looked a little heavy about the eyes this morning , '' said the Marchioness , apparently very agitated ; `` and I 've heard from Eglamour this post ; he 's not well too -- I think every body 's ill now -- he 's caught a fever going to see the ruins of Pæstum : I wonder why people go to see ruins ! '' 
`` Oh dear Grey ! '' 
`` Well , Graves , mind you do what Mr. Grey tells you . '' 
Here a little odd-looking , snuffy old man , with a brown scratch wig , who had been very busily employed the whole breakfast-time with a cold game pie , the bones of which Vivian observed him most scientifically pick and polish , laid down his knife and fork , and addressed the Marchioness with an air of great interest . 
The Marchioness looked astounded at any one presuming to ask her a question ; and then she drawled , `` Vivian , you know every thing -- tell this gentleman what a bird is . '' 
I dare say we shall find an account of it in Spix ; however , '' said Vivian , rising , and taking a volume from the book-case ; `` ay ! 
Mr. Mackaw was extremely restless the whole time that Vivian was reading this interesting extract . 
At last , he burst forth with an immense deal of science , and a great want of construction -- a want , which scientific men often experience , always excepting those mealy-mouthed professeurs who lecture `` at the Royal , '' and get patronized by the blues -- the Lavoisiers of May Fair ! 
I think you called that gentleman Mr. Grey . 
Perhaps , Mr. Grey is not aware , that I am Mr. Mackaw -- I arrived here late last night -- whose work in three volumes folio , on Brazilian Parroquets , although I had the honour of seeing his Lordship is , I trust , a sufficient evidence that I am not speaking at random on this subject ; and consequently , from the lateness of the hour , could not have the honour of being introduced to your Ladyship . '' 
thought Vivian . 
unfortunate Vivian Grey ! '' 
The Marchioness , who was quite overcome with this scientific appeal , raised her large , beautiful , sleepy eyes , from a delicious compound of French roll and new milk , which she was working up in a Sevre saucer for Julie ; and then , as usual , looked to Vivian for assistance . 
`` Grey , dear ! 
But the description of your bird , Mr. Grey , does not answer that at all . 
It was sent me by Bonpland ; and was given to him by the dictator of Paraguay himself . 
then , Mr. Mackaw , '' said Vivian , `` that was the bird which screamed last night ! '' 
continued Vivian , `` it 's found out . 
`` My dear Mr. Grey , impossible ! 
said Vivian . 
`` I should very much like to hear Spix 's description again , '' said Mr. Mackaw , `` only I fear it 's troubling you too much , Mr. Grey . '' 
`` Read it yourself , my dear Sir , '' said Vivian , putting the book into his hand , which was the third volume of Tremaine . 
Mr. Colburn insists , that this is the only title , under which I can possibly publish the letters , which Vivian Grey received on the -- day of -- ,18 -- . 
The Honourable Miss Cynthia Courtown , to Vivian Grey , Esq. . 
It was only as a particular favour , and to please Miss Premium ; -- there , Grey , my boy ! 
Grey , you would have enjoyed the scene . 
Grey , if you could but have seen the plate ! 
Grey , my boy , how are you ? 
You 're a good fellow , Vivian , after all . 
`` Do n't turn up the whites of your eyes , Vivian ; and , in the fulness of your indignation , threaten us with all the horrors of parliamentary interference . 
Ormsby Park , Oct. -- , 18 -- `` My dear Vivian , `` By desire of Sir Berdmore , -LRB- is not this pretty and proper ? -RRB- 
Pray , my dear Vivian , come to us immediately . 
Let me , I beseech you , my dear Vivian , have a few days of you to myself , before Ormsby is full , and before you are introduced to Caroline Mounteney . 
Vivian , you are a juggler ; and the deceptions of your slight-of-hand tricks depend upon instantaneous motions . 
You may smile at the hollow flatteries , answering to flatteries as hollow , which , like bubbles when they touch , dissolve into nothing : but tell me , Vivian , what has the self-tormentor felt at the laughing treacheries , which force a man down into self-contempt ? 
`` Is it not obvious , my dear Vivian , that true Fame , and true Happiness , must rest upon the imperishable social affections ? 
It was impossible for any human being to behave with more kindness than the Marquess of Carabas did to Vivian Grey , after that young gentleman 's short conversation with Mrs. Felix Lorraine , in the conservatory . 
The only feeling which seemed to actuate the peer , was an eager desire to compensate , by his present conduct , for any past misunderstanding , and he loaded his young friend with all possible favour . 
Still Vivian was about to quit Château Desir , and in spite of all that had passed , he was extremely loth to leave his noble friend under the guardianship of his female one . 
Vivian contrived to gain the heart of her Grace , by his minute acquaintance with the Juggernaut pedigree ; and having taken the opportunity , in one of their conversations , to describe Mrs. Felix Lorraine as the most perfect specimen of divine creation with which he was acquainted , at the same time the most amusing , and the most amiable of women , that lady was honoured with an invitation to accompany her Grace to Himalaya Castle . 
As this was the greatest of all possible honours , and as Desir was now very dull , Mrs. Felix Lorraine accepted the invitation , or rather , obeyed the command , for the Marquess would not hear of a refusal , Vivian having dilated , in the most energetic terms , on the opening which now presented itself of gaining the Juggernaut . 
The coast being thus cleared , Vivian set off the next day for Sir Berdmore Scrope 's . 
`` You rather patronize Vivida , I think , Grey ? '' 
`` Patronize him ! 
he 's my political pet ! '' 
`` This confounded Catholic Question is likely to give us a great deal of trouble , Grey . 
`` Does old Gifford still live at Pimlico , Grey ? '' 
`` He 's a splendid fellow , after all . '' 
`` And to think , Grey , that the Tory administration , and the Tory party of Great Britain , should never , by a single act , or in one single instance , have indicated , that they were in the least aware , that the exertions of such a man differed in the slightest degree from those of Hunt and Hone ! 
Grey , of all the delusions which flourish in this mad world , the delusion of that man is the most frantic , who voluntarily , and of his own accord , supports the interest of a party . 
No , Grey ; make them fear you , -- and they will kiss your feet . 
`` I was always for the West India interest , from a boy , Grey . 
`` I believe you 're right , Grey : I sacrificed truth to a trope . 
`` But , aside with joking , Grey , I really think , that if any man of average ability dare rise in the House , and rescue many of the great questions of the day from what Dugald Stuart , or D'Israeli would call the spirit of Political Religionism , with which they are studiously mixed up , he would not fail to make a great impression upon the House , and a still greater one upon the country . '' 
`` And you imagine literature is equally affected , Grey ? '' 
''' `` Southey , I think , Grey , is an exception . '' 
`` We certainly want a master-spirit to set us right , Grey . 
`` Hyde Park is greatly changed since I was a dandy , Vivian . 
`` Well , Mr. Grey , how does Lady Julia like the bay mare ? '' 
I have withstood every temptation ; and now , though I scarcely know in what way to make out this volume , here I am , without the least intention of finally proving that our Vivian Grey is the son of the Marquess of Carabas , by a former and secret marriage -- in Italy , of course , -- Count Anselmo -- Naples -- and an old nurse , & c. & c. ; or that Mrs. Felix Lorraine is Horace Grey , Esquire , in disguise ; or of making that much neglected beauty , Julia Manvers , arrive in the last scene with a chariot with four horses and a patent axle-tree -- just in time ! 
Now for Vivian Grey again ! 
Vivian was forced to interfere ; but as he deprecated all explanation , his interference was of little avail ; and , as it was ineffectual for one party , and uncalled for by the other , it was , of course , not encouraged . 
Her attentions were not confined merely to Vivian , and the Marquess , but were lavished with equal generosity on their colleagues . 
`` Well , Vivian , '' said Mrs. Lorraine , to that young gentleman , the day previous to his departure from Buckhurst Lodge ; `` you are going to leave me behind you . '' 
`` It does indeed , Vivian -- and I assure you that there is no person awaiting it with intenser interest than myself . 
Vivian was silent -- for he had nothing to say . 
`` Vivian ! '' 
`` But you must leave off some of your wicked tricks , Vivian ! 
''' `` Come , Vivian ! 
Vivian -- will you never give me credit for any thing but a light and callous heart ? 
The time may come , when Vivian Grey will find that Amalia Lorraine was -- '' `` Was what , Lady ? '' 
`` You shall choose the word , Vivian . '' 
`` This is very kind of you , Grey ! 
`` No , Vivian -- you have opened my eyes to the situation in which fortune has placed me . 
And as I have often remarked , I have friends -- I have you , Vivian . 
But we must take care how we act , Vivian ; we must be wary -- eh ! 
Vivian -- wary -- wary . 
Vivian ? '' 
asked the peer , and he fixed his eyes as earnestly , and expressively , as he possibly could upon his young companion . 
Vivian ? '' 
People must be taught what their situations are -- that 's what I was saying , Vivian . 
My Lord Courtown , '' added the Marquess in a whisper , `` is not to have every thing his own way , -- eh ! 
Vivian ? '' 
thought Vivian , `` this then is the result of that admirable creature , Mrs. Felix Lorraine , staying a week with her dear friend , Lady Courtown . '' 
Vivian -- that 's your opinion , is n't it ? '' 
I do n't know how it is , but you always hit upon the right expression , Vivian . 
Vivian ? '' 
`` I have been talking to the Marchioness , Vivian , upon the expediency of her opening the season early . 
Vivian , I 'm in such spirits this morning . 
To be sure , to be sure , the predominant interest , mine -- that is to say , our 's , Vivian , is the predominant interest . 
I wonder if he has seen Mounteney . 
I wish you could get hold of him , Vivian ; you 'd soon bring him round . 
What it is to have brains , Vivian ! '' 
Vivian took the letter , and his quick eye dashed through its contents in a second . 
It talked of private communications , and premature conduct , and the suspicious , not to say dishonest , behaviour of Mr. Vivian Grey : it trusted that such conduct was not sanctioned by his Lordship , but `` nevertheless obliged to act with decision -- regretted the necessity , '' & c. & c. & c. & c . 
In short , Lord Courtown had deserted , and recalled his pledge as to the official appointment promised to Mr. Cleveland , `` because that promise was made , while he was the victim of delusions created by the representations of Mr. Grey . '' 
`` This is from Lord Beaconsfield , my Lord , '' said Vivian , with a face pallid as death , `` and apparently the composition of the same writer ; at least , it is the same tale , the same refacimento of lies , and treachery , and cowardice , doled out with diplomatic politesse . 
Mr. Vivian Grey ! '' 
His Lordship 's florid countenance turned as pale as that of his companion . 
He gasped for breath ! 
-- said Vivian . 
Vivian 's fist was once clenched -- but it was only for a moment . 
Vivian left the room . 
He stopped one moment on the landing-place , ere he was about to leave the house for ever . 
and so , Vivian Grey , your game is up ! 
-- Madeleine , '' said he to a female attendant that passed , `` is your mistress at home ? '' 
`` 'T is well , '' said Vivian , and he sprang up stairs . 
said Vivian Grey , as he entered the elegant boudoir of Mrs. Felix Lorraine . 
`` 'T is a sad tale , '' said Vivian , with a melancholy voice . 
a bon mot , or a calembourg , or exit Mr. Vivian Grey . '' 
Mr. Grey , I do declare you 're weeping . '' 
`` Nay , Vivian ! 
Mr. Grey ! 
`` Vivian , '' said Mrs. Lorraine , `` have you seen the Marquess yet ? '' 
Now , my dear Vivian , sit down and tell me all . '' 
`` I will be brief , '' shouted Vivian , with terrific earnestness ; `` I will be brief . 
Madam , I have stood over the bier of the departed ; I have mingled my tears with those of the sorrowing widower , -- his young , and tender , child was on my knee ; and , as I kissed his innocent lips , methought it was but my duty to the departed , to save the father from his mother 's rival -- '' He stopped . 
Vivian Grey , lounging in an arm-chair , in the easiest of postures , and with a face brilliant with smiles , watched his victim with the eye of a Mephistophiles . 
think you , that Vivian Grey would fall by a woman 's wile ? 
think you that Vivian Grey , could be crushed by such a worthless thing as you ! 
The shifting expression of Mrs. Lorraine 's countenance , while Vivian was speaking , would have baffled the most cunning painter . 
When he ended , she sprang from the sofa , and looking up , and extending her arms with unmeaning wildness , she gave one loud shriek , and dropped like a bird shot on the wing -- she had burst a blood-vessel . 
Vivian raised her on the sofa , and paid her every possible attention . 
There is always a vile apothecary lurking about the mansions of the noble , and so a Mr. Andrewes soon appeared , and to this worthy , and the attendant Madeleine , Vivian delivered his patient . 
Had Vivian Grey left the boudoir a pledged bridegroom , his countenance could not have been more triumphant ; but he was labouring under the most unnatural excitation : for it is singular , that when , as he left the house , the porter told him that Mr. Cleveland was with his Lord , Vivian had no idea at the moment , what individual bore that name . 
The fresh air of the street revived him , and somewhat cooled the bubbling of his blood . 
It was then that the man 's information struck upon his senses . 
thought Vivian , `` then he knows all ! '' 
His own misery he had not yet thought of ; but , when Cleveland occurred to him , with his ambition once more baulked -- his high hopes once more blasted -- and his honourable soul once more deceived , -- when he thought of his fair wife , and his infant children , and his ruined prospects ; a sickness came over his heart , he grew dizzy , and fell . 
`` And the gentleman 's ill , I think , '' said an honest Irishman ; and , in the fulness of his charity , he placed Vivian on a door step . 
`` So it seems , '' said a genteel passenger in black ; and he snatched , with great sang-froid , Vivian 's gold watch . 
There was a row ; in the midst of which , Vivian Grey crawled to an hotel . 
In half an hour Vivian was at Mr. Cleveland 's door . 
Vivian immediately wrote to Mr. Cleveland . 
Vivian Grey . '' 
When Vivian left Mr. Cleveland 's , he actually did not know what to do with himself . 
Home , at present , he could not face , and so he continued to wander about , quite unconscious of locality . 
He passed in his progress many of his acquaintance , who , from his distracted air and rapid pace , imagined that he was intent on some important business . 
At length he found himself in one of the most sequestered parts of Kensington Gardens . 
It was a cold , frosty day , and as Vivian flung himself upon one of the summer seats , the snow drifted from off the frozen board ; but Vivian 's brow was as burning hot , as if he had been an inhabitant of Sirius . 
Throwing his arms on a small garden table , he buried his face in his hands , and wept -- as men can but once weep in this world ! 
Not for himself -- for after the first pang , he would have whistled off his high hopes with the spirit of a Ripperda -- not even for Cleveland -- for at this moment , it must be confessed , his thoughts were not for his friend -- did Vivian Grey 's soul struggle , as if it were about to leave its fleshly chamber . 
Insulted Nature re-asserted her long spurned authority , and the once proud Vivian Grey felt too humble , even to curse himself . 
Gradually his sobs became less convulsed , and his brow more cool ; and calm from very exhaustion , he sat for upwards of an hour motionless . 
But when his eye caught Vivian 's , the boy uttered a loud cry of exultation , and rushed , with the eagerness of infantine affection , to his gentle and favourite playmate . 
With what miraculous quickness will man shake off the outward semblance of grief , when his sorrow is a secret ! 
And so it was , that , even unto these infants , Vivian Grey dared not appear other than a gay , and easy-hearted man ; and in a moment he was dancing them on his knee , and playing with their curls , and joining in their pretty prattle , and pressing their small and fragrant lips . 
It was night when he paced down . 
-- He passed his club ; that club , to become a member of which , had once been the object of his high ambition , and to gain which privilege had cost such hours of canvassing ; such interference of noble friends ; and the incurring of favours from five thousand people , `` which never could be forgotten . '' 
I know not what desperate feeling actuated him , but he entered the Club-house . 
He walked into the great saloon , and met some fifty `` most particular friends , '' all of whom asked him , `` how the Marquess did , '' or `` have you seen Cleveland ? '' 
At length , to avoid these disagreeable rencontres ; and , indeed , to rest himself , he went to a smaller and more private room . 
As he opened the door , his eyes lighted upon Cleveland . 
He was standing with his back to the fire . 
There were only two other persons in the room : one was a friend of Cleveland 's , and the other an acquaintance of Vivian 's . 
When Vivian saw Cleveland , he would have retired , but he was bid to `` come in , '' a voice of thunder . 
As he entered , he instantly perceived that Cleveland was under the influence of wine . 
At this moment , it was clear to Vivian that Cleveland was under the influence of the extremest passion : his eyes rolled widely , and seemed fixed only upon vacancy . 
As Vivian was no friend to scenas before strangers , he bowed to the two gentlemen , and saluted Cleveland with his wonted cordiality ; but his proffered hand was rudely repelled . 
said Vivian , in an earnest whisper , as he came up close to him ; -- `` for God 's sake , contain yourself . 
I 've been their dupe too long ; '' and he struck Vivian with tremendous force . 
said Vivian , with a quivering lip , turning to the gentleman who was writing at the table -- `` we were school-fellows ; circumstances have prevented us from meeting often in after-life , but I now ask you , with the frankness of an old acquaintance , to do me the sad service of accompanying me in this quarrel -- a quarrel which , I call Heaven to witness , is not of my seeking . '' 
The Baronet , who was in the Guards , and , although a great dandy , quite a man of business in these matters , immediately rose from his seat , and led Vivian to a corner of the room . 
After some whispering , he turned round to Mr. Cleveland , and bowed to him with a very significant look . 
`` Mr. Castleton , '' said Sir John , giving his card , `` Mr. Grey will accompany me to my rooms in Pall Mall ; it is now ten o'clock ; we shall wait two hours , in which time I hope to hear from you . 
It was quite evident that Cleveland was sobered , for in one instance , Vivian observed that the style was corrected by his own hand . 
Poynings wrote to a professional friend to be on the ground at half-past seven , and then he and Vivian retired . 
You pass your morning at your second 's apartments , pacing his drawing-room , with a quivering lip , and uncertain step . 
At length he enters with an answer , and while he reads , you endeavour to look easy , with a countenance merry with the most melancholy smile . 
Sir John drove Vivian to the ground in his cabriolet . 
`` Nothing like a cab , Grey , for the business you 're going on . 
Now , when I go in my cab , with Philidor with his sixteen-mile-an-hour paces , egad ! 
that 's Cleveland that we have just passed , going to the ground in a chariot : he 's a dead man , or my name 's not Poynings -- '' `` Come , Sir John ; no fear of Cleveland 's dying , '' said Vivian with a smile . 
His pistol grazed Vivian 's elbow . 
Vivian fired in the air . 
Vivian shot at random ; and his bullet pierced Cleveland 's heart . 
Cleveland sprang nearly two yards from the ground , and then fell upon his back . 
In a moment Vivian was at the side of his fallen antagonist ; but the dying man ` made no sign ' -- he stared wildly , and then closed his eyes for ever ! 
When Vivian Grey remembered his existence , he found himself in bed . 
The curtains of his couch were closed ; but , as he stared around him , they were softly withdrawn , and a face that recalled every thing to his recollection , gazed upon him with a look of affectionate anxiety . 
exclaimed Vivian -- but the finger pressed on the parental lip warned him to silence . 
His father knelt by his side , and softly kissed his forehead , and then the curtains were again closed . 
Six weeks , unconsciously to Vivian , had elapsed since the fatal day , and he was now recovering from the effects of a fever , from which , his medical attendants had supposed he never could have escaped . 
Here was he , once more in his own quiet room , watched over by his beloved parents ; and had there then ever existed such beings as the Marquess , and Mrs. Lorraine , and Cleveland , or were they only the actors in a vision ? 
`` It must be so , '' thought Vivian ; and he jumped up in his bed , and stared wildly around him . 
shrieked the wretched sufferer , as his eye glanced upon a desk which was on the table , and which had been given to him by the Marquess ; `` it is true ! 
But the human mind can master many sorrows , and after a desperate relapse , and another miraculous rally , Vivian Grey rose from his bed . 
and the sufferer 's head sank upon his breast . 
`` Vivian , my dearest , your mother visited you this morning , but you were asleep . 
`` Vivian , my beloved ! 
and he seized Mr. Grey 's hand with a convulsive grasp . 
`` My boy , '' said Mr. Grey to his son one day , `` your mother and I have been consulting together about you ; and we think , now that you have somewhat recovered your strength , it may be well for you to leave England for a short time . 
In a few weeks after this proposition had been made , Vivian Grey was in Germany . 
He wandered for some months in that beautiful land of rivers , among which flows the Rhine , matchless in its loveliness ; and at length , the pilgrim shook the dust off his feet at Heidelburg , in which city Vivian proposed taking up his residence . 
To the little world , of the little city , of which he was now an habitant , Vivian Grey did not appear a broken-hearted man . 
He lived neither as a recluse , nor a misanthrope . 
He became extremely addicted to field sports , especially to hunting the wild boar ; for he feared nothing so much as thought , and dreaded nothing so much as the solitude of his own chamber . 
He was an early riser , to escape from hideous dreams ; and at break of dawn , he wandered among the wild passes of the Bergstrasse ; or climbing a lofty ridge , was a watcher for the rising sun ; and in the evening he sailed upon the star-lit Neckar . 
I fear me much , that Vivian Grey is a lost man ; but , I am sure that every sweet and gentle spirit , who has read this sad story of his fortunes , will breathe a holy prayer this night , for his restoration to society and to himself . 
I am loth to speak even one moment of the author , instead of the hero ; but with respect to those who have with such singular industry associated the character of the author of Vivian Grey with that of his hero ; I must observe , that as this is an inconvenience which I share in company with more celebrated writers , so also is it one which will never prevent me from describing any character which my mind may conceive . 
Of the literary vices of Vivian Grey , no one is perhaps more sensible than their author . 
Yet was Vivian Grey to talk like Simon Pure , and act like Sir Charles Grandison ? 
-- Upwards of a year had now elapsed since Vivian Grey left England . 
The mode of life which he pursued at Heidelburg for many months , has already been mentioned . 
He felt himself a broken-hearted man , and looked for death , whose delay was no blessing ; but the feelings of youth which had misled him in his burning hours of joy , equally deceived him in his days of sorrow . 
He lived ; and in the course of time , found each day that life was less burdensome . 
But in feeling that he might yet again mingle in the world , Vivian Grey also felt that he must meet mankind with different feelings , and view their pursuits with a different interest . 
He woke from his secret sorrow in as changed a state of being , as the water nymph from her first embrace ; and he woke with a new possession , not only as miraculous as Undine 's soul , but gained at as great a price , and leading to as bitter results . 
Vivian Grey discovered that this deity was but an idol of brass , and this garden of Eden but a savage waste ; for if the river nymph had gained a soul , he had gained EXPERIENCE . 
Vivian Grey woke , as we have said , to a conviction of the worthlessness of human fortunes . 
His character was changed ; and this is the most wonderful of all revolutions -- a revolution which precept or reason can never bring about , but which a change of circumstances or fortune may . 
In his career through the world he resembled a turbid mountain river , whose colour had been cleared , and whose course had been calmed in its passage through a lake . 
But he commenced by founding his philosophy on a new error ; for he fancied himself passionless , which man never is . 
Vivian Grey was now about to join , for the second time , the great and agitated crowd of beings , who are all intent in the search after that undiscoverable talisman -- HAPPINESS . 
That he entertained the slightest hopes of being the successful inquirer , is not for a moment to be imagined . 
He considered that the happiest moment in human life is exactly the sensation of a sailor who has escaped a shipwreck ; and that the mere belief that his wishes are to be indulged , is the greatest bliss enjoyed by man . 
Vivian pulled up his horse as he ascended through the fine beech wood , which leads immediately to the city of Frankfort , from the Darmstadt road . 
The crowd seemed to increase every moment , but as they were all hastening the same way , his progress was not much impeded . 
At the top of the hill is an old Roman tower , and from this point the flourishing city of Frankfort , with its picturesque Cathedral , its numerous villas , and beautiful gardens in the middle of the fertile valley of the Maine , burst upon Vivian 's sight . 
On crossing the bridge over the river , the crowd became almost impassable , and it was with the greatest difficulty that Vivian steered his way through the old narrow winding streets , full of tall ancient houses , with heavy casements and notched gable ends . 
All was bustle , bargaining , and business : there were quarrels , and conversation in all languages ; and Vivian Grey , although he had no chance either of winning or losing money , was amused . 
At last , Vivian gained the High street ; and here , though the crowd was not less , the space was greater ; and so in time he arrived at the grand hotel of `` the Roman Emperor , '' where he stopped . 
It was a long time before he could be informed whether Baron Julius von Konigstein at present honoured that respectable establishment with his presence ; for , although Vivian did sometimes succeed in obtaining an audience of a hurrying waiter , that animal , when in a hurry , has a peculiar habit of never attending to a question which a traveller addresses to him . 
In this dilemma Vivian was saluted by a stately-looking personage above the common height . 
He was dressed in a very splendid uniform of green and gold , covered with embroidery , and glittering with frogs . 
He wore a cocked hat , adorned with a flowing party-coloured plume , and from his broad golden belt was suspended a weapon of singular shape , and costly workmanship . 
This personage was as stiff and stately , as he was magnificent . 
His eyes were studiously preserved from the profanation of meeting the ground , and his well supported neck seldom condescended to move from its perpendicular position . 
His coat was buttoned to the chin and over the breast , with the exception of one small aperture , which was elegantly filled up by a delicate white cambric handkerchief , very redolent of rich perfumes . 
This gorgeous gentleman , who might have been mistaken for an elector of the German empire , had the German empire been in existence , or the governor of the city at the least , turned out to be the chasseur of the Baron von Konigstein ; and with his courtly assistance , Vivian soon found himself ascending the staircase of the Roman Emperor . 
Vivian was ushered into an apartment , in which he found three or four individuals at breakfast . 
A middle-aged man of very elegant appearance , in a most outré morning gown of Parisian chintz , sprung up from a many-cushioned easy-chair of scarlet morocco , and seized his hand as he was announced . 
`` My dear Mr. Grey ! 
Next to the pleasure of having friends , is that of introducing them to each other -- Prince , you will have great pleasure in being introduced to my friend Mr. Grey -- Mr. Grey ! 
Mr. Grey ! 
Mr. Grey ! 
After this most hospitable reception from a man he had never seen before , Vivian Grey sat down . 
`` I understand , Mr. Grey , that you 're a regular philosopher . 
I merely keep this box for my friends ; '' and here he extended to Vivian a magnificent gold snuffbox , covered with the portrait of a crowned head , surrounded with diamonds : `` A present from the King of Sardinia , when I negociated the marriage of the Duke of -- and his niece , and settled the long agitated controversy about the right of anchovy fishing on the left bank of the Mediterranean : I merely keep it for my friends ; my own snuff is here . 
asked Vivian . 
I was informed that it was necessary for me to ascend this pyramidal elevation during the night ; and this pyramidal elevation of solid , green , polished , slippery ice , Mr. Grey , with an unhappy inclination forward , of one inch in eight from the perpendicular , was the top of Mont Blanc . 
`` Mr. Grey -- I wish that Frankfort could have been honoured by your presence yesterday , '' said the Baron ; `` there really was an entertainment at the President 's , which was not contemptible , and a fine display of women , a very fine display ! 
asked Vivian . 
`` Your Highness , I imagine , has been a great traveller ; '' said Vivian , to the Baron 's great annoyance . 
Unfortunately Vivian was not so much used to Prince Salvinski as his Excellency . 
All this time the Austrian had not joined in the conversation ; not , however , because his mouth was shut -- that is never the fault of an Austrian . 
Before Vivian could venture an observation in defence of the great Florentine , the door opened , and Ernstorff handed a dispatch to the Baron , recommending it to his Excellency 's particular attention . 
Grey , you 're the happiest fellow in Christendom ; the Signora has signed and sealed -- all is arranged -- she sings to-night ! 
The Baron , who was in high spirits , ordered the carriage to drive Vivian round the ramparts , where he was to be introduced to some of the most fashionable beauties , previous to the evening triumph . 
Vivian passed a week very agreeably at Frankfort . 
He seemed fond , at times , of showing Vivian that he was not a mere artificial man of the world , destitute of all feelings , and thinking only of himself : he recurred with satisfaction to moments of his life , when his passions had been in full play ; and , while he acknowledged the errors of his youth with candour , he excused them with grace . 
In short , Vivian and he became what the world calls friends ; that is to say , they were men who had no objection to dine in each other 's company , provided the dinner were good ; assist each other in any scrape , provided no particular personal responsibility were incurred by the assistant ; and live under the same roof , provided each were master of his own time . 
Vivian and the Baron , indeed , did more than this -- they might have been described as very particular friends -- for his Excellency had persuaded our hero to accompany him for the summer to the Baths of Ems , a celebrated German watering place , situated in the duchy of Nassau , in the vicinity of the Rhine . 
A bright sun-shiny afternoon was stealing into twilight , when Vivian escaping from the principal street , and the attractions of the Braunfels , or chief shops under the Exchange , directed his steps to some of the more remote and ancient streets . 
In crossing a little square , his attention was excited by a crowd , which had assembled round a conjuror ; who from the top of a small cart , which he had converted into a stage , was haranguing , in front of a green curtain , an audience with great fervency , and apparently with great effect ; at least Vivian judged so , from the loud applauses which constantly burst forth . 
Vivian became also one of the audience , and not an uninterested one . 
He was not much more than five feet high , but so slightly formed , that he reminded you rather of the boy , than the dwarf . 
The upper part of his face was even delicately moulded ; his sparkling black eyes became his round forehead , which was not too much covered by his short glossy black hair ; his complexion was clear , but quite olive ; his nose was very small and straight , and contrasted singularly with his enormous mouth , the thin bluish lips of which were seldom closed , and consequently did not conceal his large square teeth , which , though very white , were set apart , and were so solid that they looked almost like double teeth . 
cried Vivian Grey ; for the mob , frightened at the soldier , gave way . 
The serjeant 's companion , of course , came to his rescue , but Vivian engaged him , and attempted to arrange matters . 
said he to the soldiers , `` we had better be off : men so important as you and I should not be spectators of these mummeries . '' 
The Austrians , who understood Vivian 's compliment literally , were not sorry to make a dignified retreat ; particularly as the mob , encouraged by Vivian 's interference , began to show fight . 
Vivian also took his departure as soon as he could possibly steal off unnoticed ; but not before he had been thanked by the conjuror . 
So saying , he threw over Vivian 's neck a neat chain , or cord , of very curiously-worked leather . 
`` Who the devil 's this , Grey ? '' 
`` A funny knave , whom I once saved from a thrashing , or something of the kind , which I do him the justice to say he well deserved . '' 
asked Vivian . 
The Baron and Vivian were fortunate in finding rooms , for the Baths were very full ; the extraordinary beauty of the weather having occasioned a very early season . 
asked the Baron of Vivian ; `` we shall get better seats to-morrow , and perhaps be among those whom you shall know . 
At this moment a party entered the room , who were rather late in their appearance , but who attracted the attention of Vivian so keenly , that he almost forgot the gay crowd on whom he was lately gazing with such amusement . 
This lovely creature glided by Vivian Grey almost unnoticed , so fixed was his gaze on her companion . 
This party having passed Vivian , proceeded to the top of the room , where places had been kept for them . 
Vivian 's eye watched them till they were lost among surrounding visitors : their peculiar loveliness could not deceive him . 
`` English , no doubt , '' observed he to the Baron ; `` who can they be ? '' 
`` I have n't the least idea -- that is , I do n't exactly know -- that is , I think they are English , '' answered the Baron , in such a confused manner that Vivian stared . 
Whether his Excellency observed his friend 's astonishment or not , I can not say ; but , after musing a moment , he recovered himself . 
asked Vivian , rather anxiously : `` is the gentleman a Mr. Trevor ? '' 
Whether it was from not being among his friends , or some other cause , I know not , but the Baron was certainly not in his usual spirits this day at dinner . 
Vivian found amusement in his next neighbour , a forward , bustling man , clever in his talk , very fine , but rather vulgar . 
He was the manager of a company of Austrian actors , and had come to Ems on the chance of forming an engagement for his troop , who generally performed at Vienna . 
He had been successful in his adventure , the Archduke having engaged the whole band at the New House , and in a few days the troop were to arrive ; at which time , the manager was to drop the character of a travelling gentleman , and cease to dine at the Table d'Hête of Ems . 
From this man Vivian learnt that Lady Madeleine Trevor had been at the Baths for some time before the season commenced ; that at present , her 's was the party which , from its long stay , and eminent rank , gave the tone to the amusements of the place ; the influential circle , which those who have frequented watering-places have often observed , and which may be seen at Ems , Spa , or Pyrmont , equally as at Harrowgate , Tunbridge Wells , or Cheltenham . 
The Baron , whose countenance had assumed its wonted cheerfulness , and who excused his previous dulness by the usual story of a sudden head-ache , proposed to Vivian to join the promenade . 
I only arrived this morning -- this is my friend , Mr. Grey -- Colonel von Trumpetson . '' 
said Vivian . 
`` Sir , I wish you good morning , '' said the Colonel , very drily ; and , staring very keenly at Vivian , he walked away . 
`` Well , that 's beautiful , Grey , to get rid of that horrible old bore with such exquisite tact -- Double braid ! 
-- he should be drummed out of the regiment ; but he 's good enough to fight , I suppose , '' added the plenipotentiary , with a smile and shrug of the shoulders , which seemed to return thanks to Providence , for having been educated in the civil service . 
`` You know her ladyship , then ! 
`` I did know her , '' said the Baron , `` but I see from her bow , that I am at present in no very high favour . 
The truth is , she is a charming woman , but I never expected to see her in Germany , and there was some little commission of her 's which I neglected -- some little order for Eau de Cologne -- or a message about a worked pocket handkerchief , or a fancy shawl , which I utterly forgot ; -- and then , I never wrote ! 
-- and you know , Grey , that these little sins of omission are never forgiven by women . '' 
`` Good morning to you , '' said the Baron , pulling on Vivian . 
`` You 've had the pleasure , Grey , of meeting this afternoon two men , who have each only one idea . 
A buzz and bustle at the other end of the gardens , to which the Baron and Vivian were advancing , announced the entry of the Archduke . 
`` Your companion , '' continued the Archduke , pointing very graciously to Vivian . 
May I have the honour of presenting Mr. Grey to your Highness ? '' 
Vivian of course bowed very low , and of course made a very proper speech on the occasion , which , as all speeches of that kind should be , was very dutiful and quite inaudible . 
let us move on , '' and the Baron , with Vivian on his arm , turned with the Archduke . 
`` Finish the story about Salvinski , Baron , and then I 'll introduce you for a reward to the most lovely creature in existence -- a country-woman of your 's , Mr. Grey -- Lady Madeleine Trevor . '' 
Some strange thoughts occurred to Vivian , whose eyes had never quitted her ladyship 's face while this conversation was taking place . 
Might I take the liberty of introducing to you -- Mr. Grey ! '' 
This gentleman , who , during the whole previous conversation , had kept his head in a horizontal position , looking neither to the right , nor to the left , and apparently unconscious that any one was conversing with his sister , because , according to the English custom , he was not `` introduced `` -- now suddenly turned round , and welcomed his acquaintance with great cordiality . 
`` Mr. Grey , '' asked her ladyship , `` are you of Dorsetshire ? '' 
`` My mother is a Dorsetshire woman ; her family name is Vivian , which name I also bear -- Sir Hargrave Vivian , of Chester Grange . '' 
While the Baron was entertaining Mr. St. George , the conversation between Lady Madeleine and Vivian proceeded . 
Mr. Grey , the sun has now disappeared , and I fear the night air among these mountains . 
So saying , bowing very cordially to Vivian , and less stiffly to the Baron than she had done , Lady Madeleine left the gardens . 
I was certainly very wild in England ; but then , young men , you know , Grey ! 
As Vivian and the Baron entered , Lady Madeleine Trevor , leaning on the arm of an elderly man , left the room ; but as she was in earnest conversation , she did not observe them . 
`` I suppose we must throw away a dollar or two , Grey ? '' 
`` Come , Grey ; shall I throw down a couple of Napoleons on joint account . 
`` Why , Grey ! 
The Chevalier moved forward , followed by the Baron and Vivian . 
`` The most subtile diplomatist , '' thought Vivian , as he recalled to mind his own introduction , `` would be puzzled to decide to which interest his Imperial Highness leans . '' 
As his Highness was addressing Vivian , the Baron let slip our hero 's arm , and seizing hold of the Chevalier de Boeffleurs , began walking up and down the room with him , and was soon engaged in very animated conversation . 
`` Grey , I 've dispatched De Boeffleurs to the house , to instruct his servant and Ernstorff to do the impossible , in order that our rooms may be altogether . 
Vivian , in spite of his philosophy , felt the excitement and wonder of the moment . 
He looked very earnestly at the Baron , whose countenance , however , was perfectly unmoved . 
`` Grey , '' said he , very coolly , `` It seems we 're in luck . '' 
Vivian looked at the table ; his Excellency watched , with a keen eye , the little dealer . 
` Put these five hundred and twelve Napoleons into a bag , '' said the Baron ; `` Grey , this is your share , and I congratulate you . 
The Baron examined them , and after having seen them endorsed , put them calmly into his pocket , not forgetting the twelve Napoleons ; and then taking Vivian 's arm , and regretting extremely that he should have the trouble of carrying such a weight , he wished Mr. Hermann a very good night and success at his Roulette , and walked with his companion quietly home . 
On the following morning , Vivian met with his friend Essper George , behind a small stall in the Bazaar . 
added Vivian , with no pleased air . 
Here , I should think you have many active rivals , '' said Vivian , looking round the various stalls . 
Before Vivian could well finish his sentence , Essper had drawn out a long horn from beneath his small counter , and sounded a blast which echoed through the arched passages . 
`` Mr. Grey , '' said her ladyship , smiling , `` you can perhaps explains the reason of this odd greeting . 
`` The celebrated Essper George , just '' -- again commenced the conjuror ; but Vivian prevented the repetition . 
`` Thanks will not supply a stock-in-trade though , Essper , '' said Vivian . 
Her ladyship , with her companion , the elderly gentleman with whom she left the Redoute the preceding night , and Vivian , stopped one moment to watch the party to whom Essper George alluded . 
`` English , '' said the elderly gentleman ; who had been already introduced by Lady Madeleine to Vivian as her uncle , Mr. Sherborne . 
`` The tradesman is more singular even than his customers , '' said Mr. Sherborne ; `` I think you said you knew something of him , Mr. Grey ? '' 
`` I knew him , Sir , before , as a conjuror at Frankfort fair . '' 
`` By a conjuror , do you mean , Mr. Grey , one of those persons who profess an ability to summon , by the adjuration in a sacred name , a departed spirit ; or merely one , who by his dexterity in the practice of sleight-of-hand , produces certain optical delusions on the sight and senses of his fellow men ? '' 
`` Then Sir , I am happy to say that our tastes agree , '' said Vivian , bowing . 
`` But , my dear uncle , '' said Lady Madeleine , `` now that you and Mr. Grey understand each other , you surely will not maintain that his use of the word conjuror was erroneous . 
`` My dear , Mr. Grey was right , and I was wrong : I carried the point a little too far ; but I feel it my duty to take every opportunity of informing the youth of the present day that I hold them in absolute contempt . 
Their affectation , their heartlessness , their artificial feelings , their want of all real , genuine , gentlemanly , English sentiments , -- and , above all , their slang , -- have disgusted me -- I 'm very glad to find that Mr. Grey is not guilty of these follies -- I 'm very glad to find that he believes that a man older than himself is not quite a fool -- I wish I could say as much for Albert . 
Mr. Grey was certainly right : -- next to being correct , a man should study to be candid -- I have n't met with a candid man these fifty years -- no one now will own , by any chance , they 're ever wrong . 
Nothing in the world could give Vivian greater pleasure ; he felt himself irresistibly impelled to the side of Lady Madeleine ; and only regretted his acquaintance with the Baron , because he felt conscious that there was some secret cause , which prevented that intimacy from existing between his Excellency and the Trevor party , which his amusing talents and his influential rank would otherwise have easily produced . 
`` By no means , my dear , '' said Mr. Sherborne , who had the greatest affection for his nieces ; `` Mr. Grey will , I have no doubt , have the goodness to remain with your ladyship , and I will fetch Violet ; you may depend upon it , she is ready to come ; '' so saying , Mr. Sherborne stalked off at a very quick pace . 
`` My dear uncle is rather a character , Mr. Grey ; but he is as remarkable for his excellence of heart , as for any little peculiarities in his habits . 
I am glad that you have made a favourable impression upon him ; because , as I hope you will be much in his company , you stand now no chance of being included in the list of young men whom he delights to torment , at the head of which , I regret to say , is my brother . 
`` I am not unacquainted , Mr. Grey , '' said Lady Madeleine , much moved , `` with an unhappy event , which we need not again mention . 
Believe me , that I learnt the sad history from one , who , while he spoke the rigid truth , spoke of the living sufferer in terms of the fondest affection . '' 
said Vivian , with an agitation which he did not affect to suppress , `` a father can hardly be expected to be impartial . '' 
do not say so , Mr. Grey -- do not say so ! 
`` You have ceased to hope , Mr. Grey , because hope and consolation are not the visible companions of solitude , which are of a darker nature . 
`` I am no metaphysician , Mr. Grey , but I fear you have embraced a dark philosophy . 
Mr. Grey , this is my niece Violet , Miss Fane : and Violet , my dear , this is Mr. Grey , and I wish all persons of his age were like him . 
There is n't a young man in the world for whom I have n't the most sovereign contempt ; I do n't mean you , Mr. Grey . 
`` If I were here alone , if Lady Madeleine were only here , I could excuse this ; but how you are to answer to your conscience giving a stranger , Mr. Grey , a young gentleman for whom I have the highest respect , the impression that you , my niece , can tolerate for a moment , the existence of such monstrous absurdities is to me the most unaccountable thing that -- '' `` My dear uncle ! 
how do you know that Mr. Grey has not got a monkey himself ? 
As it is , here I am ; with the prospect of a very pleasant walk , not only feeling quite well , but decidedly better every day , -- so now let us make an apology to Mr. Grey , for having kept him so long standing . '' 
-- what business had he to be going about with that Baron von Konigstein -- that foreign -- '' `` Friend of Mr. Grey 's , my dear uncle , '' said Lady Madeleine . 
`` You would scarcely-imagine , Mr. Grey , from my cousin 's appearance , and high spirits , that we are travelling for her health ; nor do her physicians , indeed , give us any cause for serious uneasiness -- yet I confess , that at times , I can not help feeling very great anxiety . 
The walk was most agreeable ; and , with the exception of one argument upon the principles of the picturesque , which Mr. Sherborne insisted upon Vivian 's entering into , and in which , of course , that gentleman soon had the pleasure of proving himself candid by confessing himself confuted , it passed over without any disturbance from that most worthy and etymological individual . 
This was the first day , for nearly a year and a half , that Vivian Grey had joined with beings whose talents and virtues he respected , in calm and rational conversation ; this was nearly the first day in his life that Vivian Grey had conversed with any individuals , with no sinister views of self-advancement , and self-interest . 
He found his conversation , like his character , changed ; -- treating of things , rather than men ; of nature , rather than society . 
He conversed calmly , without eagerness , and without passion ; and delivering with ability his conscientious opinion upon subjects which he had studied , and which he understood , he found that while he interested others , he had also been interested himself . 
I 've such a curious character to introduce you to , a particular friend of Mr. Grey 's , who wishes very much to have the honour of your acquaintance , Mr. Essper George . 
`` Not exactly , '' said Vivian . 
By the joint exertions of Ernstorff , and Mr. St. George 's servants , the Baron , Vivian , and the Chevalier de Boeffleurs , were now seated next to the party of Lady Madeleine Trevor . 
`` Why , Mr. Grey , this lovely valley would be a model for the solitude we were planning this morning . 
Here Vivian turned round to give some directions to an attendant , and to his horror , found Essper George standing behind his chair . 
Why , Mr. Grey , what 's the matter ? '' 
At one moment Vivian thought that her ladyship would have fainted . 
said Mr. Sherborne , who first broke silence , `` I suppose you all think I 'm wrong : I should like to hear your opinion , Mr. Grey , of this business . 
`` Yes , pray give us your opinion , Mr. Grey , '' said Lady Madeleine with eagerness ; as if she thought that conversation would give her relief . 
The expression of her countenance did not escape Vivian . 
`` I must side against you , Mr. Sherborne , '' said he ; `` his Excellency has , I think , made out his point . 
The promenade followed -- the Archduke -- his compliments -- and courtiers -- then came the Redoute . 
The Baron whispered Vivian that it was `` expected '' that they should play , and give the tables a chance of winning back their money . 
Vivian staked with the carelessness of one who wishes to lose . 
As is generally the case under such circumstances , he again left the Redoute a most considerable winner . 
He parted with the Baron at his Excellency 's door , and proceeded to the next , which was his own . 
Here he stumbled over something at the doorway , which appeared like a large bundle . 
He bent down with his light to examine it , and found Essper George , lying on his back , with his eyes half-open . 
It was some moments before Vivian perceived he was asleep ; stepping gently over him , he entered his apartment . 
When Vivian rose in the morning , a gentle tap at his door announced the presence of an early visitor , who , being desired to enter , appeared in the person of Essper George . 
Vivian stared at him for a moment , and then ordered him to come in . 
thought Vivian , `` I fear with all thy wit , and pleasantry , and powers , thou art , after all , but one of those capriccios , which Nature sometimes indulges in ; merely to show how superior is her accustomed order to eccentricities , even accompanied with the rarest and most extraordinary powers . '' 
continued Vivian , in a kinder tone . 
sobbed Essper ; `` I wish to be -- to be your Highness ' servant , '' here he hid his face in his hands . 
Essper remained one moment with his eyes still fixed on the ground ; then walking very rapidly up to Vivian , he dropped on his knee , kissed his hand , and disappeared . 
Mr. St. George breakfasted with the Baron , and the gentlemen called on Lady Madeleine early in the morning to propose a drive to Stein Castle ; but her ladyship excused herself , and Vivian following her example , the Baron and Mr. St. George `` patronized '' the Fitzlooms , because there was nothing else to do . 
Vivian again joined the ladies in their morning walk ; but Violet Fane was not in her usual high spirits -- she complained more than once of her cousin 's absence ; and this , connected with some other circumstances , gave Vivian the first impression that her feelings towards Mr. St. George were not merely those of a relation . 
As to the Chevalier de Boeffleurs , Vivian soon found that it was utterly impossible to be on intimate terms with a being without an idea . 
These gentlemen , as well as the Baron , Vivian , and Mr. St. George , were to dine this day at the New House . 
Vivian soon found that the game was played on a very different scale at the New House to what it was at the Redoute . 
He spoke most decidedly to the Baron of his detestation of gambling , and expressed his unwillingness to play ; but his Excellency , although he agreed with him in-his sentiments , advised him to conform for the evening to the universal custom . 
This night very considerable sums were lost and won ; but none returned home greater winners than Mr. St. George and Vivian Grey . 
Vivian had now been three weeks at Ems , and the presence of Lady Madeleine Trevor and her cousin alone induced him to remain . 
Whatever was the mystery existing between her Ladyship and the Baron , and that there was some mystery Vivian could not for a moment doubt , his Excellency 's efforts to attach himself to her party had been successful . 
For the first fortnight , the Baron was Lady Madeleine 's constant attendant in the evening promenade , and often in the morning walk ; and though there were few persons whose companionship could be preferred to that of Baron von Konigstein , still Vivian sometimes regretted that his friend and Mr. St. George had not continued their morning rides . 
The presence of his Excellency seemed always to have an unfavourable influence upon the spirits of Violet Fane , and the absurd and evident jealousy of Mr. St. George , prevented Vivian from finding , in her agreeable conversation , some consolation for the loss of the sole enjoyment of Lady Madeleine 's exhilarating presence . 
Mr. St. George had never met Vivian 's advances with cordiality , and he now treated him with studied coldness . 
The saloon of the Archduke was open every evening , and in spite of his great distaste for the fatal amusement which was there invariably pursued , Vivian found it utterly impossible to decline frequently attending , without subjecting his motives to painful misconception . 
His fortune , his extraordinary fortune did not desert him , and rendered his attendance still more a duty . 
Of Essper George , Vivian had seen little . 
In passing through the Bazaar one morning , which he seldom did , he found to his surprise that the former conjuror had doffed his quaint costume , and was now attired in the usual garb of men of his condition of life . 
As Essper was busily employed at the moment , Vivian did not stop to speak to him ; but he received a most respectful bow . 
Once or twice also , he had met Essper in the Baron 's apartments ; and he seemed to have become a very great favourite with the servants of his Excellency , and the Chevalier de Boeffleurs , particularly with his former butt , Ernstorff , to whom he now behaved with the greatest deference . 
`` Mr. Grey , '' said Lady Madeleine one evening , as she was about to leave the gardens , `` we shall be happy to see you to-night if you are not engaged -- Mr. Sherborne only will be with us . '' 
`` I thank your Ladyship , but I fear that I am engaged , '' said Vivian ; for the receipt of some letters from England made him little inclined to enter into society . 
I think , Mr. Grey , that you are the only one who has not deserted the Salon . 
Vivian smiled at Miss Fane 's warmth , and was too flattered by the interest which she seemed to take in his welfare , to persist in his refusal , although she did dilate most provokingly on the absence of her cousin . 
Vivian soon joined them . 
`` Lady Madeleine is assisting me in a most important work , Mr. Grey . 
Vivian was so completely master of every spot in the Rhine-land , that he had no difficulty in suggesting the necessary alterations . 
The drawings , unlike most young ladies ' sketches , were vivid representations of the scenery which they professed to depict ; and Vivian forgot his melancholy as he attracted the attention of the fair artist to points of interest , unknown or unnoticed by the Guide-books , and the Diaries . 
`` Our intended fellow-travellers , Lord Mounteney and his family , are already at Milan , '' said Lady Madeleine to Vivian ; `` we were to have joined their party -- Lady Mounteney is a Trevor . '' 
`` One of the immortal works of Vigano , I suppose , '' said Vivian ; `` he has raised the ballet of action to an equality with tragedy . 
`` The violent death of a woman , young , lovely , and innocent , is assuredly the most terrible of tragedies , '' observed Vivian ; `` and yet , I know not why , I agree with you that Desdemona 's is the most affecting of fates -- more affecting than those of Cordelia , or Juliet , or Ophelia . '' 
`` For my part , '' said Vivian , `` in the last instance , I think that death can scarcely be considered an evil . 
muttered Vivian ; `` very fearful in some cases ; '' for he thought of one whom he had sent to his great account before his time . 
`` Very fearful in all cases , Mr. Grey . 
`` I enter into your feelings , '' answered Vivian ; `` although the light in which you view this subject is new to me . 
`` I can not agree with you , Mr. Grey , in this opinion , which you seem to entertain of the inefficacy of ' a long apprenticeship of sorrow and suffering . ' 
If ever you have experienced a long and dangerous illness , Mr. Grey , I am confident that , on reflection , you will agree with me . '' 
`` My dear Violet , '' said Lady Madeleine ; `` I thought that Mr. Grey came here to-night to forget his melancholy . 
`` I assure you , Lady Madeleine , '' said Vivian , `` that I take great -- the greatest interest in this subject . 
As Vivian was thinking that Violet Fane was the most beautiful creature he had ever beheld , Lady Madeleine Trevor bent down , and kissed her forehead . 
When Vivian left the apartment of Lady Madeleine , he felt no inclination to sleep ; and instead of retiring to rest , he bent his steps towards the gardens . 
But not for reflection had Vivian Grey deserted his chamber : his heart was full -- but of indefinable sensations ; and forgetting the world in the intenseness of his emotions , he felt too much to think . 
How long he had been pacing by the side of the river he knew not , when he was awakened from his reverie by the sound of voices . 
He looked up , and saw lights moving at a distance . 
He stopped beneath a branching elm-tree for a moment , that the sound of his steps might not attract their attention ; and at this very instant the garden gate opened , and closed with great violence . 
As he passed Vivian , the moon rose up from above the brow of the mountain , and lit up the countenance of the Baron . 
When Vivian awoke in the morning , he found that the intenseness of his emotions had subsided ; and that his sensations were not quite so indefinite as on the preceding night : -- he found himself in love -- with whom , however , was perhaps still doubtful . 
The image of Violet Fane had made his dreams delicious ; but it must be confessed , that the eidolon sometimes smiled with the features of Lady Madeleine Trevor : -- but that he looked on the world with new feelings , and a changed spirit , -- with hope , and almost with joy , -- was certain . 
The sun illumined as yet only the tops of the western mountains ; and the morning breeze , unheated by his beams , told that it was June by the odours which it wafted around . 
At such a moment the sense of existence alone is happiness ; but to Vivian it seemed that the sun was about to light up a happier world , and that the sweet wind blew from Paradise . 
It was in one of those sweet bowers , with which , as we have before mentioned , the gardens of Ems wisely abound , that Vivian Grey had spent more than three hours , unconscious of the passing of a moment . 
A rustling among the trees first attracted his attention ; and on looking quickly up the winding walk , he thought he saw Essper George vanish in the shrubbery . 
Was he watched ? 
-- But he soon forgot his slight anger in another fit of abstraction , from which he was wakened , as he imagined by the same sound . 
`` This time , I 'll catch you , '' thought Vivian . 
He jumped suddenly up , and nearly knocked down Lady Madeleine Trevor , who had entered the arbour . 
`` I hope I 've not disturbed you , Mr. Grey , '' said her Ladyship , who saw that he was confused ; `` I am in want of an escort , and I have come to reclaim a truant knight . 
Vivian made a violent struggle to recover himself , and began to talk a quantity of nonsense to her ladyship , by way of apology for his negligence , and thanks for her kindness ; Lady Madeleine listened , with her usual gentle smile , to a long and muttered discourse , in which the words `` Essper George , Miss Fane , and fine morning , '' were alone intelligible . 
asked Vivian . 
`` You will join our party at the Archduke 's to-night , I hope , Mr. Grey , '' continued her Ladyship . 
In a quarter of an hour Vivian had quite recovered his senses ; and only regretted the part which he necessarily took in the conversation , because it prevented him from listening to the soft tones of her ladyship 's voice , who he thought to-day looked a thousand times more beautiful than ever . 
He began also to think , that he should like to walk to the New Spring alone with her every morning of his life . 
Vivian had been so occupied by his own feelings , that he and his companion had completed nearly half their walk , before it struck him that something was dwelling on the mind of Lady Madeleine . 
`` Mr. Grey , '' said her ladyship , suddenly ; `` I can not conceal any longer , that I am thinking of a very different subject to the Archduke 's ball . 
`` I wish not to keep you in suspense , Mr. Grey . 
`` Any thing -- every thing , with the most perfect unreserve and confidence , '' answered Vivian . 
`` You are aware , Mr. Grey , that Ems is not the first place at which I have met Baron von Konigstein . '' 
`` It can not have escaped you , Mr. Grey , that I acknowledged his acquaintance with reluctance . '' 
`` And yet it was with still more reluctance , Mr. Grey , that I prevailed upon myself to believe you were his friend . 
`` Now that I have prevailed upon myself to speak , Mr. Grey , and have experienced from you the reception that I gave you credit for ; do not fear that there will be any want of openness on my part . 
I fear that I am even now too late ; but I trust , that whatever may be your situation , you will remember , Mr. Grey , that you have friends ; that you will decide on nothing rash . '' 
`` Lady Madeleine , '' said Vivian , `` I have too much respect for you feelings to stop even one moment to express the gratitude -- the pride -- the honourable pride , which your generous conduct allows me to feel . 
`` Now that I know the truth -- the joyful truth , Mr. Grey , '' said her ladyship , with great earnestness and animation ; `` I feel quite ashamed of my boldness ; must I say my suspicions ? 
Vivian was silent , and many minutes elapsed before his companion again spoke . 
`` I am going to accept , Mr. Grey , the confidence which you have proffered me . 
Lady Madeleine paused one moment , and then resumed with a firm voice : -- `` Upwards of six years , Mr. Grey , have now passed since Baron von Konigstein was appointed Minister to London , from the Court of -- . 
Something occurred at this time , Mr. Grey , which it is necessary for me only to allude to ; but which placed Baron von Konigstein , according to his own declaration , under the most lasting obligations to myself . 
Mr. Grey , '' continued her ladyship , `` I struggle to restrain my feelings ; but the recollections of this period of my life are so painful , that for a moment I must stop to recover myself . '' 
For a few minutes they walked on in silence ; Vivian did not speak , his heart was too full ; and when her ladyship resumed her tale , he , unconsciously , pressed her arm . 
`` Mr. Grey , I study to be brief . 
`` I mean , Mr. Grey -- with the Baron -- some foreigners also , and an Englishman -- all intimate friends of Von Konigstein , and scarcely known to Captain -- , I mean the deceased . 
And now , Mr. Grey , I am determined to give utterance to that which as yet has always died upon my lips -- the victim -- the unhappy victim was the brother of Miss Fane ! '' 
`` And Mr. St. George , '' continued Vivian , `` Mr. St. George knowing all this , which surely he must have done ; how came he to tolerate , for an instant , the advances of such a man ? '' 
He has heard of the affair only from me ; and young men , Mr. Grey , young men too often imagine that women are apt to exaggerate in matters of this nature , which , of course , few of us can understand . 
I confess to you , Mr. Grey , that though I have not for a moment doubted the guilt of the Baron , still I was weak enough to consider that his desire to become reconciled to me was at least an evidence of a repentant heart ; and the Neapolitan story deceived me . 
`` And Miss Fane , '' said Vivian , `` she must know all ? '' 
She has intreated both Mr. Sherborne and myself , to speak to St. George , and also to you , Mr. Grey ; and , since our unsuccessful interference with my brother , we have been obliged to have recourse to deceit to calm her mind , and banish her apprehensions . 
I have such confidence in your honour , Mr. Grey , that I unhesitatingly believe all that you have said . 
I have such confidence in your sense and courage , Mr. Grey , that I have now no apprehensions for the future . 
Here they had reached home : Vivian parted with her ladyship at the door of her apartments , and pressed her hand as he refused to come in . 
He hastened to the solitude of his own chamber . 
His whole frame was in a tumult ; he paced up and down his room with wild steps ; he pressed his hand to his eyes to banish the disturbing light ; and tried to call up the image of her who was lately speaking -- of her , for whom alone he now felt that he must live . 
But what chance had he of ever gaining this glorious creature ? 
His brow alternately burnt with maddening despair , and exciting hope . 
How he cursed himself for his foul sacrifice of his talents ! 
those talents , the proper exercise , the wise administration of which , might have placed happiness in his power , -- the enjoyment of a state of feeling , whose existence he had once ridiculed , because his imperfect moral sense was incapable of comprehending it ; -- once , and once only , it darted across his mind , that feelings of mere friendship could not have dictated this confidence , and occasioned this anxiety on her part ; but the soft thought dwelt on his soul only for an instant -- as the shadow of a nightingale flits over the moonlit moss . 
The company at the Archduke 's fête was most select ; that is to say , it consisted of every single person who was then at the Baths : those who had been presented to his Highness , having the privilege of introducing any number of their friends ; and those who had no friend to introduce them , purchasing tickets at an enormous price from Cracowsky -- the wily Polish Intendant . 
Miss Fane , your servant -- Mr. Sherborne -- Mr. St. George -- Mr. Grey . 
Among many smiling faces , Vivian Grey 's was clouded ; the presence of the Baron annoyed him . 
`` Grey , '' said his Excellency , very quietly , `` you 're not in a good humour to-night . 
I must go and say just one word to the lovely little Saxon , and by the bye , Grey , one word before I 'm off . 
`` Mr. Grey , '' said Miss Fane , for she was now leaning upon his arm : `` have you any objection to walk up and down the terrace ? 
By the bye , Mr. Grey , I 'm afraid that you ca n't find this evening very amusing ; the absence of a favourite pursuit always makes a sensible void ; and these walls must remind you of more piquant pleasures than waltzing with fine London ladies , or promenading up a dull terrace with an invalid . '' 
`` I hope I am , Mr. Grey ! '' 
`` I have the pleasure then , I assure you , of making many happy , and among them Mr. Grey . '' 
Vivian was surprised that he did not utter some usual complimentary answer ; but he knew not why , the words stuck in his throat ; and instead of speaking , he was thinking of what had been spoken . 
In a second he had mentally repeated Miss Fane 's answer a thousand times -- it rang in his ears -- it thrilled his blood . 
In another moment he was ashamed of being such a fool . 
said Vivian , looking at the sky . 
you are ill , Miss Fane , '' suddenly exclaimed Vivian , when , on accidentally turning to his companion , he found she was in tears . 
not very ill , but very foolish ; let us walk on , Mr. Grey , walk on -- walk on . '' 
Here Vivian thought that she was going into hysterics ; but heaving a deep sigh , she seemed suddenly to recover . 
`` I am ashamed , Mr. Grey , of myself -- this trouble , this foolishness -- what can you think ? 
Speak , pray speak , Miss Fane -- dear Miss Fane , the -- the -- '' -- the words died on Vivian 's lips , yet a power he could not withstand urged him to speak -- `` the -- the -- the Baron ? '' 
`` Miss Fane , '' said Vivian , `` if there be any service which I can do -- any advice which I can give -- any possible way that I can exert myself for you , oh , speak ! 
-- He led her down a solitary walk still further from the house . 
A thousand thoughts dashed through Vivian 's mind in rapid succession ; but a painful one -- a most painful one to him , to any man , -- always remained the last . 
His companion would not speak ; yet to allow her to return home without freeing her mind of the burthen , the fearful burthen , which evidently overwhelmed it , was impossible . 
At length he broke a silence which seemed to have lasted an age . 
Be convinced that hereafter , neither by word , nor look , hint , nor sign on my part , shall you feel , save by your own wish , that you have appeared to Vivian Grey in any other light than as the accomplished Miss Fane , the idol of an admiring circle . '' 
I will be his unknown guardian , his unseen friend ; the promoter of your wishes , the protector of your -- -- -- '' `` No , no , Mr. Grey , '' said Miss Fane , with firmness , and looking quickly up , as if her mind were relieved by discovering that all this time Vivian had never imagined she was thinking of him . 
`` No , no , Mr. Grey , you are mistaken ; it is not of Mr. St. George , of Mr. St. George only , that I am thinking . 
`` After what has passed , Mr. Grey , it seems ridiculous in me to apologize , as I had intended , for speaking to you on a graver subject than what has generally formed the point of conversation between us . 
I will hope , I will pray , that St. George and yourself have never found in that which you have followed as an amusement , the source , the origin , the cause of a single unhappy , or even anxious moment ; Mr. Grey , I will believe all this . '' 
Not of your pursuit , Mr. Grey -- not even of that fatal and horrid pursuit , do I now think , but of your companion in this amusement , in all amusements -- it is he , he that I dread , that I look upon with horror , even to him , I can not say , with hatred ! '' 
said Vivian , calmly . 
Mr. Grey , when Lady Madeleine turned from him with coolness , when she answered him in tones which to you might have appeared harsh ; she behaved to him , in comparison to what is his due , and what we sometimes feel to be our duty , with affection -- actually with affection and regard . 
no human being can know what horror is , until he looks upon a fellow-creature with the eyes that I look upon that man . '' 
She leant upon Vivian 's arm with her whole weight , and even then he thought she must have sunk -- neither spoke . 
Lady Madeleine Trevor and Miss Fane retired long before the party broke up , and Vivian accompanied them and Mr. Sherborne . 
He did not return to the gay saloon , but found himself walking in the same gardens , by the side of the same river , lighted by the same moon , and listening to the same nightingale , as on the preceding night . 
How much had happened to him in the course of one day 's circle ! 
How changed were his feelings ; not merely from yesternight , but even from a few hours since . 
She loved him ! 
-- yes , she must love him . 
All was forgotten : he felt as if his dilated soul despised its frail and impure tenement . 
Now , indeed , he was in love . 
The interview with Violet Fane came , after his conversation with Lady Madeleine , like incense after music . 
Think not that he was fickle , inconstant , capricious ; his love for the first had insensibly grown out of his admiration of the other ; as a man gazing on a magnificent sunset , remains , when the heavens have ceased to glow , with his eyes fixed on the Evening star . 
It was late when he retired . 
As he opened his door he was surprised to find lights in his chamber . 
The reader will remember that Vivian had agreed to dine , on the day after the fête , with the Baron , in his private apartments . 
Vivian had various reasons for not regretting his acceptance of the invitation ; and he never shook hands with the Chevalier de Boeffleurs , apparently , with greater cordiality , than on the day on which he met him at dinner at the Baron von Konigstein 's . 
We 're quite alone , Grey , only the Chevalier and St. George . 
`` I think that last night Lady Madeleine Trevor looked perfectly magnificent ; and a certain lady too , Grey , eh ? 
Vivian had never heard him speak so much before , and really began to believe that he was not quite an automation . 
Come , Grey ! '' 
`` If all wish it , I have no objection , '' said Vivian . 
You can join me , von Konigstein , and pay or receive with me , from Mr. St. George and Grey . '' 
`` I 'll bank with you , if you like , Chevalier , '' said Vivian , very quietly . 
certainly Mr. Grey -- certainly , Grey -- most certainly ; that is if you like : -- but perhaps the Baron is more used to banking ; you perhaps do n't understand it . '' 
`` No -- do n't you bank , Grey , '' said St. George ; `` I want you to play with me against the Chevalier and the Baron -- I like your luck . '' 
Vivian proposed leaving off ; but Mr. St. George avowed that he felt very fortunate , and that he had a presentiment that he should win . 
-- Vivian 's luck had also deserted him . 
Mr. St. George was losing desperately -- Midnight -- Vivian had lost back half his gains on the season . 
Vivian was employed in building houses with the cards . 
`` Grey , '' said the Chevalier de Boeffleurs ; `` I ca n't imagine why you do n't for a moment try to forget the cards ; that 's the only way to win . 
But Grey was not to be persuaded to give up building his pagoda ; which , now many stories high , like a more celebrated , but scarcely more substantial structure , fell with a crash . 
Vivian collected the scattered cards into two divisions . 
asked Vivian , very calmly . 
`` A very good plan , '' said Vivian ; and he locked it accordingly . 
`` Now gentlemen , '' said Vivian , rising from the table , and putting both packs of cards into his pocket -- `` Now gentlemen , I have another game to play . '' 
`` Mr. St. George , '' continued Vivian ; `` I think that you are in debt to the Chevalier de Boeffleurs , upwards of two thousand pounds ; and to Baron von Konigstein , something more than half that sum . 
`` Mr. Grey , what am I to understand ? '' 
answered Vivian , sternly ; `` that I am not one who will be bullied by a black-leg . '' 
`` Grey ! 
Grey ! 
`` Gentlemen , '' said Vivian , `` I shall not detain you long , though I have much to say that is to the purpose . 
The impudence of the fellow staggered even Vivian . 
Before Vivian could answer him , the Baron had broke silence . 
Your courage and your fortune have saved you Mr. Grey , and your friend , from the designs of villains . 
said Vivian ; `` no one leaves this room without my permission . '' 
`` Baron von Konigstein , '' said Vivian , turning to the Baron ; `` you have proved yourself , by your conduct this evening , to be a better man than I imagined you . 
`` Grey , let 's do something for him ? '' 
`` My dear St. George , '' said Vivian , `` be calm -- you are taken by surprise : I was prepared for all this . 
Vivian 's conduct had been so decisive , and evidently so well matured , that St. George felt , that in the present case , it was for him only to obey ; and squeezing Vivian 's hand very warmly , he retired , with wonder still expressed on his countenance ; for he had not yet , in the slightest degree , recovered from the first surprise . 
`` Baron von Konigstein , '' said Vivian to the unhappy man , `` we are alone . 
Yet , Mr. Grey , at this moment -- at this moment of deepest affliction , of annihilating sorrow ; when I can gain nothing by deceit ; when , whatever may have been my loose expressions in a lighter hour , I am thinking of another world : I swear -- and if I swear falsely , may I fall down a livid corpse at your feet , -- I swear that I was guiltless of the crime for which I suffered , guiltless as yourself . 
He awaited Vivian 's answer , with the most eager anxiety ; his mouth was open ; his eyes half started from their sockets : had his life or reputation depended upon the answer , he could not have gasped with more convulsive agony . 
if you have time , Mr. Grey , if you can listen for half an hour to a miserable being , it would be a consolation to me . 
`` My object , Mr. Grey , is , that Lady Madeleine should receive from me at this moment , at a time when I can have no interest to deceive , an account of the particulars of her cousin 's , and my friend 's death . 
I saw all this , Mr. Grey ; I , still young , and with such blood flowing in my veins , that the youth of common men was actually old age in comparison with my sensations : I saw all this in the possession of all those accomplishments and qualities , which , according to the world , work such marvels with women . 
I saw all this , Mr. Grey : I , a libertine by principle . 
`` Mr. Grey , I did my duty ; by all that 's sacred I did my duty ! 
A thousand times he was on the brink of ruin -- a thousand times I saved him . 
One day -- one never to be forgotten day , -- one most dark and damnable day , I called on him , and found him on the point of joining a coterie of the most desperate character . 
asked Vivian , for he felt it necessary to speak . 
And bitter as might have been the feelings , and racked as might have been the heart of Von Konigstein , he could not have felt more at this moment -- more exquisite anguish -- deeper remorse -- than did Vivian Grey . 
`` Von Konigstein , '' said Vivian , after a long silence ; `` I feel for you . 
Vivian was about to leave the room , when the Baron started from his seat , and seized his hand ; he would have spoken , but the words died upon his lips ; and before he could recover himself , Vivian had retired . 
He tried Mr. Grey , but could elicit nothing satisfactorily ; he pumped Mr. St. George , but produced only the waters of oblivion : Mr. St. George was gifted , when it suited his purpose , with a most convenient want of memory . 
Vivian found his reception by the Trevor party , the morning after the memorable night , a sufficient reward for all his anxiety and exertion . 
St. George , a generous , open-hearted young man , full of gratitude to Vivian , and regretting his previous want of cordiality towards him , now delighted in doing full justice to his coolness , courage , and ability . 
Vivian , however , read in her eyes her approbation and her gratitude . 
Mr. Sherborne received our hero with a set speech , in the middle of which he broke down ; for the old gentleman 's stout heart was full : and , shaking Vivian warmly by the hand , he gave him , in a manner which affected all present , his blessing -- `` I knew I was right in my opinion of you ; I saw directly you were not a mere young man of the present day -- you all see I was right in my opinion ; if I had n't been , I should have owned it -- I should have had the candour to acknowledge I was wrong -- never ashamed to confess I 'm mistaken . '' 
`` And now , how came you to discover the whole plot , Mr. Grey ? '' 
`` I must have the pleasure of keeping you all in suspense , '' said Vivian : `` can not any of you guess ? '' 
A week , a happy week passed over , and few minutes of the day found Vivian absent from the side of Violet Fane ; and now he thought again of England , of his return to that country under very different circumstances to what he had ever contemplated . 
Soon , very soon , he trusted to write to his father , to announce to him the revolution in his wishes , the consummation of his hopes . 
Soon , very soon , he trusted that he should hail his native cliffs , a reclaimed wanderer , with a matured mind , and a contented spirit ; his sorrows forgotten , his misanthropy laid aside . 
Let 's see -- there are seven Fitzlooms ; for we ca n't count on less than two horrid boys ; yourself , Mr. Sherborne , Grey , Violet , and myself , five -- the Santi -- quite enough -- quite enough -- a most delightful party . 
The second bore Lady Madeleine , Mr. Fitzloom , and his two sons ; the third division was commanded by Mr. Sherborne , and was formed of St. George and Aurelia Fitzloom , Miss Fane , and Vivian . 
This was said with a bow to Miss Aurelia Fitzloom ; -- need I say that Violet and Vivian were satisfied with the arrangement ? 
Grey has helped you , Violet ? 
save my uncle from exploding , Mr. Grey ! 
for heaven 's sake , put out his passion . 
If he do not take some liquid immediately , I 'm sure he must go off in a rage . 
`` Mr. Grey , surely you must have seen it ! '' 
`` Grey ! '' 
`` Essper is coming out to-day , '' said Vivian , to Miss Fane , `` after a long , and I venture to say , painful forbearance . 
He now appeared in his original costume ; the one in which Vivian first met him at the fair . 
Bowing very respectfully to the company , he threw his hand carelessly over his mandolin , and having tried the melody of its strings , sang with great taste , and a sweet voice -- sweeter , from its contrast with its previous shrill tones , -- a very pretty romance . 
All applauded him very warmly , and no one more so than Violet Fane . 
The quadrille was soon formed : Violet made up for not dancing with Vivian , at the Archduke 's . 
Before the sun has set , we shall have got through it , and it will bring us out I have no doubt , by the old cottage which you observed , Grey , when we came along I saw a gate , and path there -- just where we first got sight of Nassau castle -- there can be no doubt about it . 
Vivian strongly recommended Violet not to join them ; he was sure that Lady Madeleine would not approve it -- he was sure that it was very dangerous -- extremely dangerous ; and , by the bye , while he was talking , which way had they gone ? 
he did n't see them . 
He halloed -- all answered -- and fifty thousand echoes besides . 
And Vivian , and his beautiful companion owned the magic of this hour , as all must do -- by silence . 
In the forest of the mysterious Odenwald , in the solitudes of the Bergstrasse , had Vivian at this hour often found consolation for a bruised spirit -- often in adoring Nature had forgotten man . 
As in some delicious dream , the sleeper is awakened from his bliss by the sound of his own rapturous voice ; so was Vivian roused by these words from his reverie , and called back to the world which he had forgotten . 
But ere a moment had passed , he was pouring forth in a rapid voice , and incoherent manner , such words as men speak only once . 
He spoke of his early follies -- his misfortunes -- his misery -- of his matured views -- his settled principles -- his plans -- his prospects -- his hopes -- his happiness -- his bliss : and when he had ceased , he listened , in his turn , to some small still words , which made him the happiest of human beings . 
He bent down -- he kissed the soft silken cheek which now he could call his own . 
Her hand was in his ; her head sank upon his breast . 
Suddenly she clung to him with a strong grasp . 
She spoke not , but clung to him with a fearful strength -- her head still upon his breast -- her full eyes closed . 
In the greatest alarm , he raised her off the ground , and bore her to the river side . 
Water might revive her . 
But when he tried to lay her a moment on the bank , she clung to him gasping , as a sinking person clings to a stout swimmer . 
He leant over her ; he did not attempt to disengage his arms ; and , by degrees , by very slow degrees , her grasp loosened . 
At last her arms gave way and fell by her side , and her eyes partly opened . 
She answered not -- evidently she did not know him -- evidently she did not see him . 
A film was on her sight , and her eye was glassy . 
He rushed to the water-side , and in a moment he had sprinkled her temples , now covered with a cold dew . 
Her pulse beat not -- her circulation seemed suspended . 
He rubbed the palms of her hands -- he covered her delicate feet with his coat ; and then rushing up the bank into the read , he shouted with frantic cries on all sides . 
He dared not leave her . 
Her eyes were still open -- still fixed . 
Her mouth also was no longer closed . 
Her hand was stiff -- her heart had ceased to beat . 
He tried with the warmth of his own body to revive her . 
Once more at the river-side -- once more bending over her with starting eyes -- once more the attentive ear listening for the soundless breath . 
what would he have given for her shriek of anguish ! 
-- No change had occurred in her position , but the lower part of her face had fallen ; and there was a general appearance which struck him with awe . 
Her body was quite cold : -- her limbs stiffened . 
He bent over her with stupor , rather than grief stamped on his features . 
asked Vivian . 
said Vivian , `` and that we were on the Brocken . 
And here Essper began pouring forth a liturgy of his own -- half Catholic , and half Calvinistic , quite in character with the creed of the country through which they were travelling . 
Essper , '' said Vivian , who was surprised to find him really alarmed ; `` peace ! 
`` 'T is a wonderful tale , '' said Vivian ; `` and did the unfortunate man tell you this himself ? '' 
Vivian listened , and heard distinctly the distant baying of hounds . 
That the inhabitants of the mansion had not yet retired was certain , for lights were moving in the great house ; and one of the lodges was not only very brilliantly illuminated , but full , as Vivian was soon convinced , of clamorous , if not jovial guests . 
There was an attempt to get up a show of polite hospitality to Vivian as he entered ; but the man who offered him his chair fell to the ground in an unsuccessful struggle to be courteous ; and another one , who had filled a large glass for the guest on his entrance , offered him , after a preliminary speech of incoherent compliments , the empty bottle by mistake . 
If thou wilt follow me , '' continued the porter , reeling as he bowed with the greatest consideration to Vivian ; `` if thou wilt follow me , most high and mighty Sir , my master will be right glad to have the honour of drinking your health . 
Passing through this hall they ascended a very noble staircase , on the first landing-place of which was a door , which Vivian 's conductor opened , and ushering him into a large and well-lighted chamber , immediately withdrew . 
Vivian bowed to the party , and stood in silence , while they stared a most scrutinising examination . 
It was the most prodigious nose that Vivian ever remembered -- not only seeing , but hearing , or even reading of . 
Vivian took the vacated seat of the Vice President , who móved himself to the right . 
Here his Highness rose , and pulled out a large ruby tumbler from the file . 
Each of those present did the same , without however rising , and the late Vice President , who sat next to Vivian , invited him to follow their example . 
The Grand Duke of Schoss Johannisberger brought forward , from beneath the table , an ancient and exquisite bottle of that choice liquor from which he took his exhilarating title . 
Vivian could not refrain from noticing the extreme length , whiteness , and apparent sharpness of his teeth . 
He then took from the file one of the Venetian glasses of clouded white . 
All followed his example -- the bottle was sent round , his health was pledged -- and the Grand Duke of Schoss Johannisberger again spoke : -- `` Again , Sir Stranger , briefly but heartily welcome ! 
As Vivian watched the glance of his speaking eye , and the half satirical and half jovial smile which played upon his features , he hardly expected that his Highness would be as silent as his predecessors . 
said Vivian , as the Grand Duke again spoke -- `` thanks to Heaven , here is our last man ! '' 
Vivian had submitted to the introductory ceremonies with the good grace which becomes a man of the world ; but the coolness of his Highness 's last observation recalled our hero 's wandering senses ; and , at the same time , alarmed at discovering that eight bottles of wine had been discussed by the party , merely as a preliminary , and emboldened by the contents of one bottle which had fallen to his own share , he had the courage to confront the Grand Duke of Schoss Johannisberger in his own castle . 
`` No traitor , '' answered Vivian ; `` no traitor , my noble and right thirsty lords ; but one of the most hungry mortals that ever yet famished . '' 
The only answer that he received for some time , was a loud and ill-boding murmur . 
`` Let it be a Dutch herring then , '' said Vivian ; `` and as you have souls to be saved , grant me one slice of bread . '' 
All present gave a single cheer , in which Vivian was obliged to join ; and they honoured with a glass of the very year , the memory of a celebrated vintage . 
1766 , and 1779 , were honoured in the same manner ; but when the next toast was drank , Vivian almost observed in the countenances of the Grand Duke and his friends , the signs of incipient insanity . 
hallooed the Grand Duke , in a tone of the most triumphant exultation ; and his mighty proboscis , as it snuffed the air , almost caused a whirlwind round the room -- Hockeimer gave a roar -- Steinberg a growl -- Rudesheimer a wild laugh -- Markbrunnen a loud grunt -- Grafenberg a bray -- Asmanshausen 's long body moved to and fro with wonderful agitation ; -- and little Geisenheim 's bright eyes glistened through their glasses , as if they were on fire . 
Thanks to an excellent constitution , which recent misery however had somewhat shattered , Vivian bore up against all these attacks ; and when they had got down to 1802 , from the excellency of his digestion , and the inimitable skill with which he emptied many of the latter glasses under the table , he was , perhaps , in better condition than any one in the room . 
In three minutes his Royal Highness had completed his task , the horn had quitted his mouth , his nose had again resumed its usual situation , and as he handed the cup to the Archduke , Vivian thought that a material change had taken place in his countenance since he had quaffed his last draught . 
His eyes seemed more apart ; his ears seemed broader and longer ; and his nose was most visibly lengthened . 
The Archduke , before he commenced his draught , ascertained with great scrupulosity that his predecessor had taken his fair share by draining the horn as far as the first ring ; and then he poured off with great rapidity his own portion . 
But though , in performing the same task , he was quicker than the master of the party , the draught not only apparently , but audibly , produced upon him a much more decided effect than it had on the Grand Duke ; for when the second ring was drained , the Archduke gave a loud roar of exultation , and stood up for some time from his seat , with his hands resting on the table , over which he leant as if he were about to spring upon his opposite neighbour . 
His lordship performed his task with ease ; but as he withdrew the horn from his mouth , all present , except Vivian , gave a loud cry of `` Supernaculum ! '' 
While this ceremony was going on a thousand plans had occurred to Vivian for his escape ; but all , on second thoughts , proved impracticable . 
With agony he had observed that supernaculum was his miserable lot . 
Could he but have foisted it on the idiot Grafenberg , he might , by his own impudence and the other 's stupidity , have escaped . 
But he could not flatter himself that he should be successful in bringing about this end , for he observed with sorrow that the malicious Rudesheimer had not for a moment ceased watching him with a keen and exulting glance . 
Geisenheim performed his task ; and ere Vivian could ask for the goblet , Rudesheimer , with a fell laugh , had handed it to Grafenberg . 
The greedy ass drank his portion with ease , and indeed drank far beyond his limit . 
The cup was in Vivian 's hand , Rudesheimer was roaring -LRB- supernaculum -RRB- louder than all -- Vivian saw that the covetous Grafenberg had providentially rendered his task comparatively light ; but even as it was , he trembled at the idea of drinking at a single draught , more than a pint of most vigorous and powerful wine . 
`` My Lord Duke , '' said Vivian , `` you and your companions forget that I am little used to these ceremonies ; that I am yet uninitiated in the mysteries of the näre . 
I think , therefore , that I have some grounds for requesting indulgence ; and I have no doubt that the good sense of yourself and your friends -- '' Ere Vivian could finish , he almost fancied that a well-stocked menagerie had been suddenly emptied in the room . 
But all was forgotten and unnoticed when Vivian heard the fell and frantic shouts of the laughing hyæna , the Margrave of Rudesheimer ! 
Vivian , in despair , dashed the horn of Oberon to his mouth . 
-- Here the Grand Duke nodded to little Geisenheim , who in a moment was at his elbow . 
It was in vain that Vivian remonstrated , excused himself from joining , or assured his Royal Highness that his conduct had already been so peculiarly courteous , that any further attention was at present unnecessary . 
A curiously cut glass , which on a moderate calculation Vivian reckoned would hold at least three pints , was placed before each guest ; and a basket , containing nine bottles of sparkling champagne , première qualité , was set before his Highness . 
`` We are no bigots , noble stranger , '' said the Grand Duke , as he took one of the bottles , and scrutinized the cork with a very keen eye ; -- `` We are no bigots , and there are moments when we drink Champagne , nor is Burgundy forgotten , nor the soft Bourdeaux , nor the glowing grape of the sunny Rhône ? '' 
His Highness held the bottle at an oblique angle with the chandelier . 
The same operation was performed as regularly and as skilfully by all , except Vivian . 
It was Vivian 's turn . 
All eyes were fixed on him with the most perfect attention . 
He was now , indeed , quite desperate ; for had he been able to execute a trick which long practice alone could have enabled any man to perform , he felt conscious that it was quite out of his power to taste a single drop of the contents of his bottle . 
However , he loosened his wire and held the bottle at an angle with the chandelier ; but the cork flew quite wild , and struck with great force the mighty nose of the Grand Duke . 
said Vivian , `` Enough of this ; I have already conformed in a degree which may injuriously affect my health , with your barbarous humours , -- but there is moderation even in excess , -- and so if you please my lord your servant may show me to my apartment , or I shall again mount my horse . '' 
asked Vivian . 
The allusion to the nose had done away with all the constitutional doubts which his Highness had sported so moderately at the commencement of the evening . 
Every one rose : the little Geisenheim already had hold of Vivian 's shoulder ; and Grafenberg , instigated by the cowardly but malicious Rudesheimer , was about to seize him by the neck . 
Vivian took the dwarf and hurled him at the chandelier , in whose brazen chains the little being got entangled , and there remained . 
An unexpected cross-buttocker floored the incautious and unscientific Grafenburg ; and following up these advantages , Vivian laid open the skull of his prime enemy , the retreating Margrave of Rudesheimer , with the assistance of the horn of Oberon ; which flew from his hand to the other end of the room , from the force with which it rebounded from the cranium of the enemy . 
Taking advantage of this move , Vivian rushed to the door . 
He escaped , but had not time to secure the lock against the enemy , for the stout Elector of Steinberg was too quick for him . 
Escape was impossible , and so Vivian , followed by the seven nobles who were headed by the Grand Duke , described with all possible rapidity a circle round the hall . 
He , of course , gave himself up for lost ; but luckily for him , it never occurred to one of his pursuers to do any thing but follow their leader ; and as , therefore , they never dodged Vivian , and as also he was a much fleeter runner than the fat Grand Duke , whose pace , of course , regulated the progress of his followers , the party might have gone on at this rate until all of them had dropped from fatigue , had not the occurrence of a still more ludicrous incident prevented this consummation . 
The hall-door was suddenly dashed open , and Essper George rushed in , followed in full chace by Hunsdrich and the guests of the lodge , who were the servants of Vivian 's pursuers . 
In spite of their very disagreeable and dangerous situation , it was with difficulty that Vivian refrained from laughter as he met Essper regularly every half minute at the foot of the great staircase . 
Suddenly , as Essper passed , he took Vivian by the waist , and with a single jerk placed him on the stairs ; and then , with a dexterous dodge , he brought Hunsdrich the porter and the Grand Duke in full contact . 
`` I have got you at last , '' said his Royal Highness , grappling with his porter , whom he supposed to be Vivian . 
`` Give me that large fishing-net , '' said Essper to Vivian ; `` Quick , quick , your Highness ! '' 
Vivian pulled down an immense coarse net , which covered nearly five sides of the room . 
Essper had one pull at the proboscis of the Grand Duke of Schoss Johannisberger before he hurried Vivian away ; and in ten minutes they were again on their horses ' backs , and galloping through the star-lit wood . 
It is the hour before the labouring bee has left his golden hive ; not yet the blooming day buds in the blushing East ; not yet has the victorious Lucifer chased from the early sky the fainting splendor of the stars of night . 
So saying , Essper took them out of her hand , and placed them before Vivian . 
and he bore in triumph to Vivian , who was nearly asleep , the ample round of salt and pickled beef , well stuffed with all kinds of savory herbs . 
said he , putting before his master a plate and necessary implements ; `` let your heart gladden -- No Sir ! 
This , good lady , '' said Vivian , giving her some florins , `` I do not offer as a remuneration for your kindness , but as a slight token of -- '' Here Vivian began to snore . 
The huntsmen were abroad ; and the fine weather , his good meal , and seasonable rest , and the inspiriting sounds of the bugle , made Vivian feel quite recovered from his late fatigues . 
`` I hear nothing so wonderful , '' said Essper , putting the two middle fingers of his right-hand before his mouth , and sounding a note so clear and beautiful , so exactly imitative of the fall which Vivian had noticed and admired , that for a moment he imagined that the huntsman was at his elbow . 
When he saw Vivian and Essper he suddenly pulled up his horse , and seemed very much astonished . 
`` No one has passed us , Sir , '' said Vivian . 
`` May I ask the name of his Highness , '' said Vivian . 
`` 'T is an office of great dignity , '' said Vivian , `` and one that I have no doubt you most admirably perform -- I will not stop you , Sir , to admire your horse . '' 
`` A joke may be carried too far , my good fellow , '' said Vivian . 
Now again galloped up the Jagd Junker , or Gentilhomme de la Chasse of his Serene Highness the Prince of Little Lilliput . 
`` No one has passed us , '' said Vivian . 
`` Next time I must give you up Essper , '' said Vivian . 
And here Vivian Grey stopped his horse , and burst into a fit of laughter . 
`` A boar-spear , or I am no huntsman , '' said Vivian -- `` give it me a moment ! '' 
He threw it up into the air , caught it with ease , poised it on his finger with the practised skill of one well used to handle the weapon , and with the same delight imprinted on his countenance as greets the sight of an old friend . 
muttered Vivian to himself . 
As he spoke , the sounds of a man in distress were heard from the right side of the road . 
There was no path , but the underwood was low , and Vivian took his horse , an old forester , across it with ease . 
Vivian found himself in a small green glade of about thirty feet square . 
It was thickly surrounded with lofty trees , save at the point where he had entered ; and at the farthest corner of it , near some grey rocks , a huntsman was engaged in a desperate contest with a wild-boar . 
Vivian was off his horse in a minute , which , frightened at the sight of the wild boar , dashed again over the hedge . 
said he , `` do not move . 
A graze of Vivian 's spear on its back , though it did not materially injure the beast , for there the boar is nearly invulnerable , annoyed it ; and dashing off the fawn-coloured dog with great force , it turned on its new assailant . 
Great caution however is necessary in aiming these blows , for the boar is very adroit in transfixing the weapon on his snout , or his tusks ; and if once you miss , particularly if you are not assisted by your dogs , which Vivian was not , 't is all over with you ; for the enraged animal rushes in like lightning , and gored you must be . 
But Vivian was quite fresh , and quite cool . 
Vivian was quiet , for he had no objection to give the beast an opportunity of retreating to its den . 
Vivian again annoyed the boar at the rear , and the animal soon returned to him . 
He made a feint , as if he were about to strike his pike between its eyes . 
The boar not feeling a wound , which had not been inflicted , and very irritated , rushed at him , and he buried his spear a foot deep between its shoulders . 
The fawn-coloured bitch , though terribly wounded , gave a loud bark ; and even the other dog , which Vivian thought had been long dead , testified its triumphant joy by an almost inarticulate groan . 
As soon as he was convinced that the boar was really dead , Vivian hastened to the huntsman , and expressed his hope that he was not seriously hurt . 
said the huntsman , with great dignity , as Vivian assisted him in rising from the ground . 
He was a tall man , of imposing appearance ; but his dress , which was the usual hunting costume of a German nobleman , did not indicate his quality . 
so saying , Vivian 's valet dashed over the underwood , and leapt at the foot of the Prince . 
So saying , the Prince executed a blast with great skill , which Vivian immediately recognised as the one which Essper George had so admirably imitated . 
All present took off their caps and bowed to Vivian ; who took this opportunity of informing the Prince who he was . 
`` And now , '' continued his Highness , `` Mr. Grey will accompany us to our Castle ; -- nay , Sir , we can take no refusal . 
The Prince of Little Lilliput reined in his steed as he entered a very broad avenue of purple beeches , at the end of which , though at a considerable distance , Vivian perceived the towers and turrets of a Gothic edifice glittering in the sunshine . 
said his Highness . 
`` I assure your Highness , '' said Vivian , `` that I view with no unpleasant feeling , the prospect of a reception in any civilized mansion ; for to say the truth , for the last eight-and-forty hours , Fortune has not favoured me either in my researches after a bed , or that which some think still more important than nightly repose . '' 
said the Prince , staring in Vivian 's face very earnestly , and then bursting into a loud fit of laughter ; `` No , no , it can not be ! 
The Prince was exceedingly diverted with Vivian 's account of his last night 's adventure ; and our hero learnt from his Highness , that his late host was no less a personage than the cousin of the Prince of Little Lilliput , an old German Baron , who passed his time with some neighbours of congenial temperament , in hunting the wild boar in the morning , and speculating on the flavours of the fine Rhenish wines during the rest of the day . 
The best of surgeons we assure you , Mr. Grey , if you require one : -- and look you that the blue chamber be prepared for this gentleman ; and we shall have need of our Cabinet this evening . 
So saying , his Highness bowed to the party ; and taking Vivian by the arm , and followed by Arnelm and Von Neuwied , he ascended a staircase which opened into the court , and then mounted into a covered gallery which ran round the whole building . 
The Prince did the honours of the castle to Vivian with great courtesy . 
The armoury , and the hall , the knight 's chamber , and even the donjon-keep were all examine ; and when Vivian had sufficiently admired the antiquity of the structure , and the beauty of the situation , the Prince , having proceeded down a long corridor , opened the door into a small chamber which he introduced to Vivian as his Cabinet . 
`` My friend , Max , Mr. Grey . 
Speak to him . '' 
`` I am very happy to see you at Turriparva , Sir , '' said the boy , bowing to Vivian with great dignity . 
`` Have you been hunting with his Highness this morning ? '' 
said the young Prince , seizing Vivian 's hand -- `` Oh ! 
He was instantly introduced to Vivian as the Prince 's most particular friend ; and then he listened , apparently with great interest , to his Highness ' narrative of the morning 's adventure ; his danger , and his rescue . 
Young Maximilian never took his large , dark-blue eyes off his father while he was speaking ; and when he had finished , the boy rushed to Vivian , and threw his arms round his neck . 
Vivian was delighted with the affection of the child , who whispered to him in a low voice -- `` I know what you are ! '' 
`` I hope I am , '' said Vivian ; `` but travelling in a foreign country is hardly a proof of it . 
Well then , '' said the urchin , whispering with great energy in Vivian 's ear , through his hollow fist : -- `` I hate the Grand Duke of Reisenberg , and I mean to stab him to the heart ; '' so saying , the little Prince grated his teeth with an expression of the most bitter detestation . 
thought Vivian ; but at this moment his conversation with him was interrupted . 
Your pardon , Mr. Grey , for leaving you . 
Vivian found in Mr. Sievers a very interesting companion ; nothing of the pedant , and much of the philosopher . 
Their conversation was of course chiefly on topics of local interest , anecdotes of the castle and the country , of Vivian 's friends the drunken Johannisberger and his crew , and such matters ; but there was a keenness of satire in some of Mr. Seivers 's observations which was highly amusing , and enough passed to make Vivian desire opportunities of conversing with him at greater length , and on subjects of greater interest . 
They were at present disturbed by Essper George entering the room to inform Vivian that his luggage had arrived from the village ; and that the blue-chamber was now prepared for his presence . 
The business of the toilet is sooner performed for a hunting party in a German forest , than for a state dinner at Château Desir ; and Vivian was ready long before he was summoned . 
`` His Serene Highness has commenced his progress towards the hall , '' announced Essper George to Vivian , in a very treble voice , and bowing with great ceremony as he offered to lead the way , with a long white wand waving in his right hand . 
`` I shall attend his Highness , '' said his master ; `` but before I do , if that white wand be not immediately laid aside , it will be broken about your back . '' 
More than fifty individuals , all wearing hunting-dresses of green cloth on which the giant 's head was carefully emblazoned , were already seated in the hall when Vivian entered . 
He was conducted to the upper part of the chamber , and a seat was allotted him on the left hand of the Prince . 
While Vivian was musing in astonishment at the evident affectation of royal pomp which pervaded the whole establishment of the Prince of Little Lilliput , the trumpeters in the gallery suddenly commenced a triumphant flourish . 
His Highness ascended the throne , Prince Maximilian was on his right , and Vivian had the high honour of the left hand ; the Jagd Junker seated himself next to our hero . 
Few minutes had elapsed ere Vivian perceived that his Highness was always served on bended knee . 
Surprised at this custom , which even the mightiest and most despotic monarchs seldom exact , and still more surprised at the contrast which all this state afforded to the natural ease and affable amiability of the Prince , Vivian ventured to ask his neighbour Arnelm whether the banquet of to-day was in celebration of any particular event of general or individual interest . 
When the noise had subsided , the Jagd Junker rose ; and prefacing the intended pledge by a few observations , as remarkable for the delicacy of their sentiments as the elegance of their expression , he gave , pointing to Vivian , `` The Guest ! 
The sentiment was again echoed by the lusty voices of all present , and particularly by his Highness . 
As Vivian shortly returned thanks and modestly apologized for the German of a foreigner , he could not refrain from remembering the last time when he was placed in the same situation . 
It was when the treacherous Earl of Courtown had drank success to Mr. Vivian Grey 's maiden speech in a bumper of claret , at the political orgies of Château Desir . 
Could he really , in very fact , be the same individual as the bold , dashing , fearless youth , who then organized the crazy councils of those ambitious , imbecile greybeards ? 
What was he then ? 
What was he now ? 
He turned from the comparison with feelings of sickening disgust , and it was with difficulty that his countenance could assume the due degree of hilarity which befitted the present occasion . 
`` Truly , Mr. Grey , '' said the Prince ; `` your German would pass current at Weimar . 
Arnelm , good cousin Arnelm , we must trouble thy affectionate duty to marshal and regulate the drinking devoirs of our kind subjects to-night ; for by the advice of our trusty surgeon , Master Rodolph , of much fame , we shall refrain this night from our accustomed potations , and betake ourselves to the solitude of our Cabinet -- a solitude in good sooth , unless we can persuade you to accompany us , kind Sir , '' said the Prince , turning to Mr. Grey . 
Vivian acceded to the Prince 's proposition with eager pleasure ; and accompanied by Prince Maximilian , and preceded by the little Steward , who , surrounded by his serving-men , very much resembled a planet eclipsed by his satellites , they left the Hall . 
said Vivian ; `` How fine the effect of the light is upon the picture of the warrior . 
This was uttered in a very distinct voice , and of course excited the astonishment of Vivian ; who , however , had too much discretion to evince his surprise , or to take any measure by which his curiosity might be satisfied . 
His companion seemed instantly conscious of the seeming singularity of his expression . 
`` You are surprised at my words , good Sir , '' said his Highness , as he paced very rapidly up and down the small chamber ; `` you are surprised at my words ; but , Sir , my ancestor 's brow was guarded by a diadem ! '' 
Vivian had resided too long in Germany to be ignorant of the meaning of this title ; with which , as most probably few of my readers are acquainted , I may be allowed for a moment to disturb the tête-à-tête in the Cabinet -- merely , as a wordy and windy orator preliminarily protests , when he is about to bore the house with an harangue of five hours -- merely to say , `` just one single word . '' 
The Prince of Little Lilliput was the first mediatised sovereign that Vivian had ever met . 
At another time , and under other circumstances , he might have smiled at the idle parade and useless pomp which he had this day witnessed ; or moralized on that weakness of human nature which seemed to consider the inconvenient appendages of a throne , as the great end for which power was to be coveted : but at the present moment he only saw a kind , and , as he believed , estimable individual disquieted and distressed . 
It was painful to witness the agitation of the Prince ; and Vivian felt it necessary to make some observations , which from his manner expressed much , though in fact they meant nothing . 
`` Sir , '' said his Highness ; `` your sympathy consoles me . 
The Prince pointed to the grim chieftain , whose stout helmet Vivian now perceived was encircled by a crown , exactly similar to the one which was now lying before him . 
At this moment , this moment of pleasing anticipation of public virtue and private revenge , Master Rodolph entered , and prevented Vivian from gaining any details of the history of his host . 
The Prince and Vivian were again alone . 
`` I fear I have wearied you , Mr. Grey , '' said his Highness ; `` It was inconsiderate in me not to remember that you require repose . '' 
Vivian was not sorry to have an opportunity of retiring , so he quickly took the hint , and wished his Highness agreeable dreams . 
I have now both philosophically accounted , and politely apologized , for the loud and unfashionable snore which sounded in the blue chamber about five minutes after Vivian Grey had entered that most comfortable apartment . 
In about twelve hours time he was scolding Essper George for having presumed to wake him so early , quite unconscious that he had enjoyed any thing more than a twenty minutes ' doze . 
Vivian read the note , which supposed that , of course , he would not wish to join the chase this morning , and regretted that the writer was obliged to ride out for a few hours to visit a neighbouring nobleman , but requested the pleasure of his guest 's company at a private dinner in the Cabinet , on his return . 
After breakfast Vivian called on Mr. Sievers . 
`` These are companions , Mr. Grey , '' said he , pointing to his well-stored shelves , `` that I ever find interesting . 
`` I assure you , Sir , '' said Vivian , `` that nothing in the world could give me greater pleasure than to pass a morning with you in this retreat . 
Vivian was sincere in his declaration , and he had not for a long time passed a couple of hours with more delight than he did this morning with Mr. Sievers ; who , at the same time that he was a perfect master of principles , was also a due reverencer of facts : a philosophical antiquarian , in the widest and worthiest acceptation of the title ; one who extracted from his deep knowledge of the past , beneficial instruction for the present . 
The gentlemen accordingly left the library , and proceeding through a different gate to that by which Vivian had entered the castle , they came upon a part of the forest in which the timber and brushwood had been in a great measure cleared away ; large clumps of trees being left standing on an artificial lawn , and newly-made roads winding about in pleasing irregularity until they were all finally lost in the encircling woods . 
This nobleman was one of those individuals who anticipate their age , which , by the bye , Mr. Grey , none but noblemen should do ; for he who anticipates his century , is generally persecuted when living , and is always pilfered when dead . 
`` But Beckendorff , '' said Vivian ; `` why can he not crush in the bud the noxious plant which he so much dreads ? 
asked Vivian . 
asked Vivian , who was delighted with his communicative companion . 
I say the common creed , Mr. Grey , for there are moments when the Crown Prince of Reisenburg is spoken of by his future subjects in a very different manner . 
The Prince returned home at a late hour , and immediately inquired for Vivian . 
`` I am ready this moment , '' said Vivian . 
`` You will think it very strange , Mr. Grey , when you become acquainted with the nature of my communication ; you will justly consider it most strange -- most singular -- that I should choose for a confidant , and a counsellor in an important business , a gentleman with whom I have been acquainted so short a time as yourself . 
`` As far as the certainty of your confidence being respected , '' answered Vivian , `` I trust your Highness may communicate to me with the most assured spirit . 
thought Vivian in despair , and he watched earnestly the countenance of the Prince . 
Either the lamp was burning dim , or the blazing wood fire had suddenly died away , or a mist was over Vivian 's eyes ; but for a moment he almost imagined that he was sitting opposite his old friend , the Marquess of Carabas . 
The Prince 's phrase had given rise to a thousand agonizing associations : in an instant Vivian had worked up his mind to a pitch of nervous excitement . 
said Vivian , in an agitated voice . 
`` You are too quick -- too quick , my good friend , '' continued his Highness . 
`` I have seen , in a short time , a great deal of the political world , '' answered Vivian , who was almost ashamed of his previous emotion ; `` and I thank heaven daily , that I have no chance of again having any connection with it . '' 
So saying , the Prince leant over the table , and handed to Vivian the following epistle . 
said the Prince , as Vivian finished the letter . 
`` The best person , '' said Vivian , `` to decide upon your Highness consenting to this interview , is yourself . '' 
said Vivian , in the greatest surprise . 
said Vivian ; `` I -- what good can I possibly do ? 
said Vivian , with an inquiring eye . 
asked Vivian , calling the Prince 's attention to the point of consultation . 
said Vivian , `` is it so ; and pray of what was Mr. Sievers guilty ? '' 
`` And Beckendorff , '' asked Vivian , `` has he always been aware that Sievers was concealed here ? '' 
`` Mr. Sievers , of course then , can not visit Beckendorff , '' said Vivian . 
It was , of course , impossible for Vivian to deny the Prince any longer ; and indeed he had no objection , as his Highness could not be better attended , to seize the singular and unexpected opportunity , which now offered itself , of becoming acquainted with an individual , respecting whom his curiosity was very much excited . 
On the following morning , before sunrise , the Prince 's valet roused Vivian from his slumbers . 
According to the appointment of the preceding evening , Vivian repaired in due time to a certain spot in the park . 
`` You must give me an impartial opinion of your courser , my dear friend , '' said the Prince to Vivian , `` for if you deem it worthy of being bestridden by you , my son requests that you will do him the great honour of accepting it ; if so , call it Max ; and provided it be as thorough-bred as the donor , you need not change it for Bucephalus . '' 
said Vivian , as he touched the spirited animal with the spur , and proved its fiery action on the springing turf . 
When Vivian and his companion had proceeded about five miles , the Prince pulled up , and giving a sealed letter to the groom , he desired him to leave them . 
The Prince and Vivian amused themselves for a considerable time , by endeavouring to form a correct conception of the person , manners , and habits of the wonderful man to whom they were on the point of paying so interesting a visit . 
`` I bitterly regret , '' said Vivian , `` that I have forgotten my Montesquieu ; and what would I give now to know by rote only one quotation from Machiavel ! 
While they were hesitating as to whom they should address , an equestrian , who had already passed them on the road , though at some distance , came up , and inquired , in a voice which Vivian immediately recognized as that of the messenger who had brought Beckendorff 's letter to Turriparva , whether he had the honour of addressing Mr. von Philipson . 
Neither of the gentlemen answered , for Vivian of course expected the Prince to reply ; and his Highness was , as yet , so unused to his incognito , that he had actually forgotten his own name . 
The Prince and Vivian accordingly dismounted ; and the guide immediately , with the end of his whip , gave a loud shrill whistle . 
From this , the Prince and Vivian emerged upon an ample lawn , which formed on the farthest side a terrace , by gradually sloping down to the margin of a river . 
The sound of a fountain was not wanting ; and large beds of the most beautiful flowers abounded ; but , in no instance did Vivian observe that two kinds of plants were ever mixed together . 
As Vivian was admiring a large white peacock , which , attracted by their approach had taken the opportunity of unfurling its wheeling train , a man came forward from the bow-window . 
Let me have the honour of presenting to you my friend Mr. Grey , an English gentleman . '' 
Vivian was so struck by his posture , and the expression of his countenance , that he nearly omitted to bow when he was presented . 
As his name was mentioned , the Minister gave him a sharp , sidelong glance , and moving his head very gently , he invited his guests to enter the house . 
Vivian seized this opportunity of taking a rapid glance at the contents of his library . 
He anticipated interleaved copies of Machiavel , Vattel , and Montesquieu ; and the lightest works that he expected to meet with were the lying memoirs of some intriguing Cardinal , or the deluding apology of an exiled Minister . 
Surprised at this most unexpected circumstance , Vivian looked with a curious eye on the unlettered backs of a row of mighty folios on a corner shelf ; `` These , '' he thought , `` at least must be royal ordinances , and collected state-papers . '' 
Two to one he should not be observed ; and so , with a desperate pull , Vivian extracted a volume -- it was a herbal ! 
He tried another -- it was a collection of dried insects ! 
He immediately replaced it , and staring at his host , wondered whether he really could be the Mr. Beckendorff of whom he had heard so much . 
The Prince , who was already very puzzled by finding one who , at the same time , was both his host and his enemy , so perfectly different a character to what he had conceived , and who , being by temper superstitious , considered that this preliminary false opinion of his was rather a bad omen , -- did not express any very great admiration of the gallery of Mr. Beckendorff : but Vivian , who had no ambitious hopes or fears to affect his temper , and who was delighted with the character with whom he had become so unexpectedly acquainted -- good-naturedly humoured the fantasies of the Minister ; and said that he preferred his picture to any Breughel he had ever seen . 
The Prince seized the breast and wings of a young pheasant , Vivian attacked a fine tender hare , and Beckendorff himself cut off the wing of a partridge . 
Vivian eagerly looked up , not with the slightest idea that the entrance of Clara would prove that the mysterious picture in the drawing-room was a portrait ; but it must be confessed with a little curiosity to view the first specimen of the sex who lived under the roof of Mr. Beckendorff . 
Grey , take a glass . 
His Highness was the most ready , and the most grateful of pupils ; and Vivian could scarcely suppress his laughter , when the Prime Minister , with a grave countenance , and in his peculiarly subdued voice and somewhat precise mode of speaking , commenced instructing his political opponent upon the important topic of dressing a vegetable . 
As for Vivian Grey , he did not affect to contain himself any longer ; but gave way to a long and loud laugh -- a laugh not so much excited by the manner in which Beckendorff had detailed the desired information , although it was extremely humorous , as by the striking contrast which the speaker and the speech afforded to the conceptions which he and his companion had formed of their host during their ride . 
His rather boisterous risibility , apparently , did not offend Mr. Beckendorff , on whose upper lip , for an instant , Vivian thought he detected a smile or a sneer . 
Just as the Prince was asking Vivian to hasten to his assistance , Mr. Beckendorff returned , -- `` Never mind , Mr. von Philipson , '' said the Minister , `` never mind , never mind ; it only wants to make a nest , poor thing ! '' 
`` I am glad to see that you like birds , Sir , '' said Beckendorff to Vivian ; for our hero , good-naturedly humouring the tastes of his host , was impartially dividing the luxuries of a peach among a crowd of gaudy and greedy little sparrows . 
These monosyllables were repeated fifty times : at each one Beckendorff , with sparkling eyes , and a countenance radiant with delight , triumphantly looked round at Vivian , as if the frequent reiteration were a proof of the sincerity of the affection of these singular friends . 
At length , to the Prince 's great relief , Mr. Beckendorff 's feathered friends having finished their dessert , were sent back to their cages , with a strict injunction not to trouble their master at present with their voices -- an injunction which , to Vivian 's great surprise , was obeyed to the letter ; and when the door was closed , few persons in the world could have been persuaded that the next room was an aviary . 
Vivian , however , like most unhappy men , did love music with all his spirit 's strength ; and actuated by this feeling , and the interest which he began to take in the character of Mr. Beckendorff , he could not , when that gentleman had finished his air , refrain from very sincerely saying `` encore ! '' 
Mr. Beckendorff began a beautiful air very adagio , gradually increasing the time in a kind of variation , till at last his execution became so wonderfully rapid , that Vivian , surprised at the mere mechanical action , rose from his chair in order better to examine the player 's management and motion of his bow . 
Exquisite as were the tones , enchanting as were the originality of his variations , and the perfect harmony of his composition , it was nevertheless extremely difficult to resist laughing at the ludicrous contortions of his face and figure . 
Now , his body bending to the strain , he was at one moment with his violin raised in the air , and the next instant with the lower nut almost resting upon his foot . 
Vivian would not disturb him by his applause . 
As soon as Beckendorff was out of sight , Vivian looked at the Prince ; and his Highness , elevating his eye-brows , screwing up his mouth , and shrugging his shoulders , altogether presented a very comical picture of a puzzled man . 
`` Well , my dear friend , '' said he , `` this is rather different to what we expected . '' 
The Prince gave Vivian a look , which seemed to suppose they must go ; and accordingly they stepped into the garden . 
You see that summer-house , Sir , '' continued he , turning to Vivian , `` the top is my observatory ; you will sleep in that pavilion to-night , so you had better take notice how the walk winds . '' 
continued Beckendorff to Vivian . 
Mr. Beckendorff was soon out of sight ; and after lingering half an hour in the vicinity of the blue passion-flower , the Prince proposed to Vivian that they should quit the spot . 
`` I really am so overwhelmed with astonishment , '' said Vivian , `` that it is quite out of my power to assist your Highness in any supposition . 
I strenuously recommend , therefore , that we continue here to-day , although , '' added Vivian smiling , `` I have to sleep in his Observatory . '' 
After walking in the gardens about an hour , the Prince and Vivian again went into the house , imagining that Beckendorff might have returned by another entrance ; but he was not there . 
The Prince was very much annoyed ; and Vivian , to amuse himself , had recourse to the Library . 
He could not flatter himself , however , that there were less than two hours to kill before the great event took place ; and so , quite miserable , and heartily wishing himself back again at Turriparva , he prevailed upon Vivian to throw aside his book , and take another walk . 
`` My good lady , I am hungry , very hungry indeed ; and if your master , I mean Mr. Von -- that is Mr. Beckendorff , has such a bad appetite that he can satisfy himself with picking , once a day , the breast of a pheasant ; why , if he expect his friends to be willing , or even able to live on such fare , -- the least that I can say is , that he is very much mistaken ; and so , therefore , my good friend Grey , I think we had better order our horses , and be off . '' 
said Vivian , more interested for his friend than himself , `` there is no difficulty in asking Mr. Beckendorff . '' 
Grey , I wish we were in Turriparva , that is all I know . 
Resting his feet on the hobs , his Highness , for the fiftieth time , declared that he wished he had never left Turriparva ; and just when Vivian was on the point of giving up , in despair , the hope of consoling him , Mrs. Clara entered , and proceeded to lay the cloth . 
He drew a chair round the fire , between the Prince and Vivian . 
Indeed , before many minutes had elapsed , complete silence prevailed ; for both the endeavours of the Prince , and of Vivian , to promote conversation had been unsuccessful . 
The Prince was so surprised by Mr. Beckendorff 's remark , that he was not sufficiently struck by the strangeness of his proposition ; and it was only when he heard Vivian professing his ignorance of the game , that it occurred to him that to play at whist was hardly the object for which he had travelled from Turriparva . 
The Minister would neither bet nor stake ; and the immense interest which he took in every card that was played , most ludicrously contrasted with the rather sullen looks of the Prince , and the very sleepy ones of Vivian . 
In the first game of the second rubber Vivian blundered ; in the second he revoked ; and in the third , having neglected to play , and being loudly called upon , and rated both by his partner and Mr. Beckendorff , he was found to be asleep . 
Beckendorff threw down his hand with a loud dash , which roused Vivian from his slumber . 
He apologized for his drowsiness ; but said that he was so extremely sleepy that he must retire . 
Vivian made his escape ; and Beckendorff , pitying his degeneracy , proposed to the Prince , in a tone which seemed to anticipate that the offer would meet with instantaneous acceptation -- double dumbmy ; -- this , however , was too much . 
The morning sun peeping through the window of the little Summer-house , roused its inmate at an early hour ; and finding no signs of Mr. Beckendorff and his guest having yet arisen from their slumbers , Vivian took the opportunity of strolling about the gardens and the grounds . 
Directing his way along the margin of the river , he soon left the lawn , and entered some beautiful meadows , whose dewy verdure glistened in the brightening beams of the early sun . 
Crossing these , and passing through a gate , he found himself in a rural road , whose lofty hedge-rows , rich with all the varieties of wild fruit and flower , and animated with the cheering presence of the busy birds chirping from every bough and spray , altogether presented a scene which greatly reminded him of the soft beauties of his own country . 
With some men , to remember is to be sad ; and unfortunately for Vivian Grey , there were few objects which with him did not give rise to associations of a most painful nature . 
Of what he was thinking as he sat on a bank with his eyes fixed on the ground , it is needless to enquire . 
He was roused from his reverie by the sound of a trotting horse . 
He looked up , but the winding road prevented him at first from seeing the steed which evidently was approaching . 
Mr. Beckendorff seemed surprised at meeting Vivian , and pulled up his pony as he reached him . 
`` When I am there , '' answered Vivian , smiling , who was too practised a head to be pumped even by Mr. Beckendorff . 
But Vivian did not supply the desired phrase ; and so the Minister was forced to finish the sentence himself -- `` a very -- gentlemanly sort of man ? '' 
`` I think the best person to inform you of that , Sir , would be his Highness himself , '' said Vivian , using his friend 's title purposely to show Mr. Beckendorff how very ridiculous he considered his present use of the incognito . 
They had now arrived at the gate by which Vivian had reached the road . 
When Vivian reached the house , he found the bow-window of the Library thrown open ; and as he approached , he saw Mr. Beckendorff enter the room , and bow to the Prince . 
Vivian took his seat at the breakfast table , and Beckendorff stood conversing with them with his back to the fire-place , and occasionally , during the pauses of conversation , pulling the strings of his violin with his fingers . 
It did not escape Vivian 's observation that the Minister was particularly courteous , and even attentive to his Highness ; and that he endeavoured by his quick , and more communicative answers , and occasionally by a stray observation , to encourage the good humour which was visible on the cheerful countenance of the Prince . 
When Vivian had ended his meal , he left the Prince and Mr. Beckendorff alone , determined that his presence should not be the occasion of the Minister any longer retarding the commencement of business . 
-- Grey ! '' 
hallooed the indignant Prince , darting into the garden ; `` Grey ! 
Grey ! 
where are you , Grey ? '' 
`` Well , my dear Prince , '' said Vivian ; `` what can possibly be the matter ? '' 
Sometimes , my dear Grey , we are in a better cue for these expositions than at others , and today , I was really unusually felicitous . 
But Vivian did not answer . 
`` Grey , '' continued his Highness ; `` what are you thinking of ? 
`` Your Highness must not go , '' said Vivian , shaking his head . 
After long consultation , the Prince determined to follow Vivian 's advice ; and so firmly did he adhere to his purpose , that when he met Mr. Beckendorff at the noon meal he asked him , with a very unembarrassed voice and manner , `` what sport he had had in the morning ? '' 
thought the Prince of Little Lilliput , and he shot a glance at his companion , which Vivian could not misunderstand . 
To the Prince 's great relief , dinner-time soon arrived ; and having employed a couple of hours on that meal very satisfactorily , he and Vivian adjourned to the drawing-room , having previously pledged their honour to each other , that nothing should again induce them to play dumbmy whist . 
Vivian found refuge in a book ; and the Prince , after having examined and re-examined the brilliant birds that figured on the drawing-room paper , fell asleep upon the sofa . 
Vivian , in turn gazed upon this singular being , and the fair pictured form which he seemed to idolize . 
Was he , too , unhappy ? 
Had he too been bereft in the hour of his proud and perfect joy ? 
Had he too lost a virgin bride ? 
-- His agony overcame him , the book fell from his hand , and he groaned aloud ! 
Vivian , confounded , and unable to overpower his emotions , uttered some hasty words , explanatory , apologetical , and contradictory , and retired . 
In his walk to the summer-house , a man passed him . 
In spite of a great cloak , Vivian recognized him as their messenger and guide ; and his ample mantle did not conceal his riding boots , and the spurs which glistened in the moonlight . 
He started when he found Vivian still undressed , and pacing up and down the little chamber . 
As he spoke , Mr. Beckendorff gently put his arm within Vivian 's , and led him down the steps . 
`` There are moments , '' continued Vivian , `` when I can not refrain from believing that these mysterious luminaries have more influence over our fortunes than modern times are disposed to believe . 
`` I wish that I could think as you do , '' said Vivian ; `` but the experience of my life forbids me . 
The intruder , the moment that his eye caught Vivian , flew to his master , and seizing him by the arm , commenced and continued a loud shout of exultation , accompanying his scream the whole time by a kind of quick dance ; which , though not quite as clamorous as the Pyrrhic , nevertheless completely drowned the scientific harmony of Mr. Beckendorff . 
The Prince did not answer , but looked at Vivian in great distress ; and just as our hero was about to give Mr. Beckendorff the requisite information , Essper George , taking up the parable himself , seized the opportunity of explaining the mystery . 
The agony of the Prince and Vivian , while Essper George , with inconceivable rapidity , addressed to Mr. Beckendorff these choice queries , was inconceivable . 
Once Vivian tried to check him , but in vain . 
He did not repeat his attempt , for he was sufficiently employed in restraining his own agitation , and keeping his own countenance ; for in spite of the mortification and anger that Essper 's appearance had excited in him , still an unfortunate , but innate taste for the ludicrous , did not allow him to be perfectly insensible to the humour of the scene . 
`` Well , Grey ! 
`` Essper , '' said Vivian , `` your conduct is inexcusable , the mischief that you have done irreparable , and your punishment shall be most severe . '' 
The impressiveness of Vivian 's manner produced a proper effect ; and except that he spoke somewhat affectedly slow , and ridiculously precise , Essper George delivered himself with great clearness . 
`` Let him tell his story , '' said Vivian . 
Here Essper George threw himself at Vivian 's feet , and entreated him in the most earnest terms , to quit the house immediately . 
ejaculated the Prince ; and then he conversed with Vivian for some time in a whisper . 
`` Essper , '' at length Vivian said , `` you have committed one of the most perfect and most injurious blunders that you could possibly perpetrate . 
He quitted the room , and the Prince and Vivian thought themselves alone ; but Essper suddenly opened the door , and said in a loud and very lamentable tone , with a most rueful expression of countenance -- `` Oh , my young master ! 
Whatever , my dear Prince , '' continued Vivian , with a very significant voice and very marked emphasis ; `` whatever , my dear Prince , may be your secret wishes , be assured that to attain them in your present negotiation , you have only to be firm . 
The Prince of Little Lilliput was very disinclined to part with his shrewd counsellor , who had already done him considerable service ; and he strongly opposed Vivian 's proposition . 
His opposition , however , like that of most other persons , was unaccompanied by any suggestion on his part ; and as both agreed that something must be done , it of course ended in the Prince 's being of opinion that Vivian 's advice must be followed . 
Having once come to a resolution , it was always a rule with Vivian Grey to carry it into effect as quickly as possible ; and he therefore suggested that they should immediately go to Beckendorff , and inform him of the result of their consultation . 
The Prince was so much affected at the thoughts of parting with Vivian , that he could scarcely speak . 
Vivian accepted the ring with a cordiality which the kind-hearted donor deserved ; and yet our hero unfortunately had had rather too much experience of the world , not to be aware that , most probably , in less than another week his affectionate friend would not be able to recall his name under an hour 's recollection . 
In apprising Mr. Beckendorff of his intention of immediately quitting his roof , Vivian did not omit to state the causes of his sudden departure . 
These not only accounted for the abruptness of his movement , but also gave Beckendorff an opportunity of preventing its necessity , by allowing Essper to remain . 
The truth was , that gentleman had a particular wish to see Vivian out of his house . 
A man like Beckendorff soon discovered that Vivian Grey 's was no common mind . 
His conversation with him , of the last night , had given him high notions of his powers ; and the moment that Beckendorff saw Essper George enter the house , he determined that he should be the cause of Vivian leaving it . 
`` Mr. Grey will ride on to Reisenburg immediately , '' said the Prince ; `` and , my dear friend , you may depend upon having your luggage by the day after to-morrow . 
So saying , Mr. Beckendorff put some official report into the Prince 's hand ; and while his Highness ' attention was attracted by this sudden request , Mr. Beckendorff laid his finger on Vivian 's arm , and said , in a lower tone , `` I shall take care that you find a powerful friend at Reisenburg ! '' 
As Vivian left the room , Mr. Beckendorff was seized with an unusual desire to converse with the Prince of Little Lilliput , and his Highness was consequently debarred the consolation of walking with his friend as far as the horses . 
At the little gate Vivian and Essper encountered the only male attendant who was allowed to approach the house of Mr. Beckendorff . 
As Vivian quietly walked his horse up the rough turf road , he could not refrain from recurring to his conversation of the previous night ; and when he called to mind the adventures of the last six days , he had new cause to wonder at , and perhaps to lament over , his singular fate . 
He was a tall and well-proportioned man , and as the traveller passed he stared Vivian so fully in the face , that our hero did not fail to remark his very handsome countenance , the expression of which , however , was rather vacant and unpleasing . 
He was dressed in a riding-coat , exactly similar to the one always worn by Beckendorff 's messenger ; and had Vivian not seen him so distinctly , he would have mistaken him for that person . 
Vivian did not answer him ; not because he entertained any angry feeling on account of his exceedingly unpleasant visit . 
By no means : -- it was impossible for a man like Vivian Grey to cherish an irritated feeling for a second . 
But Vivian Grey did not exchange a syllable with Essper George , merely because he was not in the humour to speak . 
Apparently , the philosophy on which Beckendorff had regulated his extraordinary career , and by which he had arrived at his almost unparalleled pitch of greatness , was exactly the same with which he himself , Vivian Grey , had started in life ; which he had found so fatal in its consequences ; which he believed to be so vain in its principles . 
What radical error had he committed ? 
Thirty , and more than thirty , years had passed over the head of Beckendorff , ere the world felt his power , or indeed was conscious of his existence . 
Vivian Grey , with a mind inferior to no man 's , dashed on the stage , in years a boy , though in feelings a man . 
The proud palace , the white squares , the architectural streets , the new churches , the elegant opera house , the splendid hotels , and the gay public gardens full of busts , vases , and statues , and surrounded by an iron railing cast out of the cannon taken from both sides during the war , by the Reisenburg troops , and now formed into pikes and fasces , glittering with gilded heads -- all these shining in the setting sun , produced an effect which , at any time , and in any place , would have been beautiful and striking ; but on the present occasion were still more so , from the remarkable contrast they afforded to the ancient , gloomy , and filthy town through which Vivian had just passed ; and where , from the lowness of its situation , the sun had already set . 
The result of midnight promenades , whether philosophical or poetical , analytical or amatory , is usually the same -- a cold ; and as Vivian Grey sat shivering in his chair on the evening of his arrival at Reisenburg , he sent Mr. Beckendorff and his theory , his politics , his philosophy , and his summer-house , to the devil , with a most hearty imprecation . 
Essper George , who , in a much more serious illness , had already proved himself to Vivian the most skilful of nurses , was now of infinite use . 
Though having the greatest contempt for the power and professors of medicine when in perfect health , Vivian , now that he was indisposed was quite ready to accept the proffered assistance of the first quack who presented himself . 
The landlord of the hotel had a relation who , since the war , had given up his profession of farrier , and commenced that of physician . 
Seeing that Vivian had a cold and slight fever , he ordered him a very recherché mash , and wished him good morning . 
Essper George saved our hero from a dose strong enough to have reduced a cart-horse to a lady 's jennet ; and by quickly extricating his master from the fatal grasp of this Galen of fetlocks , whose real origin he suspected , from the odd manner in which he felt a pulse , his action strangely resembling a delicate examination of a hoof -- Essper , perhaps , prevented the history of Vivian Grey from closing with the present chapter . 
On the second day after his arrival at Reisenburg , Vivian received the following letter from the Prince of Little Lilliput . 
-- His luggage did not accompany the epistle . 
asked Vivian with eagerness , for , as is always the case when such questions are asked us , he was thinking of every person in the world except the right one . 
`` It is a man then , '' thought Vivian ; -- `` who is it at once , Essper ? '' 
I had some idea of that before , '' said Vivian . 
About a week after his arrival at Reisenberg , as Vivian was at breakfast , the door opened , and Mr. Sievers entered . 
`` His Highness , of course , informed me of your arrival , '' said Vivian , as he greeted him very cordially . 
`` All this , '' said Vivian , `` makes me the more rejoice that our friend has got out of their clutches ; he will make an excellent Grand Marshal ; and you must not forget , my dear Sir , that he did not forget you . 
asked Vivian . 
`` I think this statue is also supposed to be a copy , '' said Vivian . 
said Vivian . 
The urchin was very much changed in appearance since Vivian first saw him ; he was dressed in the complete uniform of a captain of the Royal Guards , having been presented with a commission on the day of his arrival at Court . 
A brilliant star glittered on his scarlet coat , and paled the splendour of his golden epaulettes . 
The duties , however , of the princely captain were at present confined to the pleasing exertion of carrying the bon-bon box of Madame Carolina , the contents of which were chiefly reserved for his own gratification . 
In the Grand Duke , Vivian was not surprised to recognize the horseman whom he had met in the private road on the morning of his departure from Mr. Beckendorff 's ; his conversation with Sievers had prepared him for this . 
But Madame Carolina , after having by a few magic sentences persuaded the whole room that she took a peculiar interest in the happiness of every individual present , has reached Vivian , who stood next to his friend the Grand Marshal . 
He was presented by that great Officer , and received most graciously . 
For a moment the room thought that his Royal Highness was about to speak ; but he only smiled . 
Vivian had only time to-give a nod of recognition to his friend Max , for the company , arm-in-arm , now formed into a procession to the dining-saloon . 
Vivian was parted from the Grand Marshal , who , as the highest Officer of state present , followed immediately after the Grand Duke . 
Although it was not a state dinner , the party , from being swelled by the suites of the Royal visitors , was numerous ; and as the Court occupied the centre of the table , Vivian was too distant to listen to the conversation of Madame , who , however , he well perceived , from the animation of her countenance and the elegant energy of her action , was delighted and delighting . 
Vivian , who , after a round or two with the Grand Marshal , had mounted Max , was presented by the young Count von Bernstorff , the son of the Grand Chamberlain , to whose care he had been specially commended by the Prince , to the lovely Countess Von S -- . 
When Vivian quitted the side of her britchka , half a dozen dandies immediately rode up to learn the result ; and , on being informed , they simultaneously cantered on to young Von Bernstorff , and requested to have the honour of being introduced to his highly interesting friend . 
As they were in these raptures , to Vivian 's great delight , and to their great dismay , the object of their admiration appeared . 
The others , were only awkward copies of an easy original ; and among these , stiff or stretching , lounging on a chaise-longue , or posted against the wall , Vivian 's quick eye recognized more than one of the unhappy votaries of white hats lined with crimson . 
When Vivian made his bow to the Grand Duke , he was surprised by his Royal Highness coming forward a few steps from the surrounding circle , and extending to him his hand . 
His Royal Highness continued conversing with him for upwards of a quarter of an hour ; expressed the great pleasure he felt at seeing at his Court a gentleman of whose abilities he had the highest opinion ; and after a variety of agreeable compliments -- compliments are doubly agreeable from crowned heads -- the Grand Duke retired to a game of Boston with his royal visitors . 
Vivian 's reception made a great sensation through the room . 
It was with great pleasure that Vivian at length observed Mr. Sievers enter the room , and extricating himself from the enlightened and enthusiastic crowd who were disserting round the tribunal of Madame , he hastened to his amusing friend . 
`` But in this country , '' said Vivian , `` surely you have no reason to complain of the want of moral philosophers , or of the respect paid to them . 
`` You think , then , '' said Vivian , `` that posterity will rank the German metaphysicians with the latter Platonists ? '' 
`` We have no want of these gentry in my own country , '' said Vivian ; `` although , of late years , this mode of writing history has become rather unfashionable . 
''' `` I shall certainly get Rienzi , '' said Vivian ; `` it seems to me to be an original work . '' 
So saying , Mr. Sievers rose , and wishing Vivian good night , quitted the room . 
Mr. Sievers had not left Vivian more than a minute , when the little Prince Maximilian came up , and bowed to him in a very condescending manner . 
The summons was immediately obeyed , and Vivian had the honour of a very long conversation with the interesting Consort of the Grand Duke . 
He was , for a considerable time , complimented by her enthusiastic panegyric of England ; her original ideas of the character and genius of Lord Byron ; her veneration for Sir Humphrey Davy , and her admiration of Sir Walter Scott . 
Not remiss was Vivian in paying , in his happiest manner , due compliments to the fair and royal authoress of the Court of Charlemagne . 
While she spoke his native tongue , he admired her accurate English ; and while she professed to have derived her imperfect knowledge of his perfect language from a study of its best authors , she avowed her belief of the impossibility of ever speaking it correctly , without the assistance of a native . 
Madame Carolina lamented Vivian 's indisposition , and fearing that he had not been properly attended , she insisted upon his seeing the Court physician . 
It was in vain he protested that he was quite well . 
She , convinced by his looks , insisted upon sending Dr. von Spittergen to him the next morning . 
When Vivian left the palace , he was not unmindful of an engagement to return there the next day , to give a first lesson in English pronunciation to Madame Carolina . 
On the morning after the Court dinner , as Vivian was amusing himself over Von Chronicle 's last new novel , Essper George announced Dr. von Spittergen . 
His dress was singular , and was even more striking from the great contrast which it afforded to the costume which Vivian had anticipated . 
The tail of his dark mixture coat nearly reached the ground ; its waist encircled his groin , and the lappets of his waistcoat fell over his thighs . 
He wore very square-toed shoes , and large silver buckles , and partridge-coloured woollen stockings were drawn over the knees of his black pantaloons . 
Holding in one hand his large straw hat , and in the other a gold headed cane as big as Goliath 's spear , without any preliminary , he thus addressed , in a loud voice , his new patient : -- `` Well , Sir ! 
As Vivian , rather confounded by the unexpected appearance and manners of his visitor , did not immediately answer , Dr. von Spittergen again spoke . 
`` Dr. von Spittergen , '' thought Vivian , `` is evidently one of those mild practitioners , who are of opinion , that Learning is never so lovely as when Brutality is her handmaid ; and that Skill is never so respected , as when she not only cures , but disgusts you . '' 
said Vivian , with imperturbable good humour ; `` however crazy may be my body , I still trust , with your good assistance , to reach a very advanced period . '' 
Vivian duly kept his appointment with Madame Carolina . 
Madame pointed , with a pride pleasing to Vivian 's feelings as an Englishman , to her shelves , graced with the most eminent of English writers . 
After some conversation , in which Madame evinced great eagerness to gain details about the persons and manners of our most eminent literary characters , she naturally began to speak of the literary productions of other countries ; and in short , ere an hour was passed , Vivian Grey , instead of giving a lesson in English pronunciation to the Consort of the Grand Duke of Reisenburg , found himself listening , in an easy chair , and with folded arms , to a long treatise by that lady de l'Esprit de Conversation . 
Her kindness in reading it to him was most particular ; nevertheless , for unexpected blessings we are not always sufficiently grateful . 
At length Madame Carolina ceased de l'Esprit de Conversation , and Vivian was most successful in concealing his weariness , and testifying his admiration . 
`` The evil is over , '' thought he ; `` I may as well gain credit for my good taste . '' 
The morocco case was unlocked , and the manuscript of Haroun Al Raschid revealed to the enraptured eye of Vivian Grey . 
For instance , my dear Mr. Grey , I will open the Arabian Night 's Entertainments , merely for an exemplification , at the one hundred and eighty-fifth night -- good ! 
said Vivian ; `` Von Chronicle himself -- '' `` How can you mention the name of that odious man ! '' 
Madame 's indignation reminded Vivian of a very true , but rather vulgar proverb of his own country ; and he extricated himself from his very awkward situation , with a dexterity worthy of his former years . 
`` Von Chronicle himself , '' said Vivian , `` Von Chronicle himself , as I was going to observe , will be the most mortified of all on the appearance of your work . 
Although brought up with a due detestation of the Methuen treaty , Vivian by no means disapproved of Dr. von Spittergen 's remedy . 
As Vivian was hesitating whether he should repeat the dose , or join the Court dinner , Essper George came into the room . 
The fair horsewoman must not , however , be kept waiting , even if she were as mysterious as an unlaid ghost , or a clerk in a public office ; and consequently , Vivian speedily made his bow to his interesting visitant . 
said Miss von Spittergen , as Vivian advanced . 
said Vivian , quite confused -- quite wonder-struck . 
`` Really I can not withstand , '' said Vivian , a little more collected , `` what is at the same time an invitation and a command . 
In ten minutes time , Vivian and Miss Melinda von Spittergen had left the Hotel of the Four Nations . 
Through this portal , gaily cantered Miss Melinda von Spittergen and Mr. Vivian Grey . 
Vivian Grey followed . 
An extensive plain succeeded , over which Miss Melinda and Vivian scudded for an hour without speaking , like Faust and Mephistophiles on the enchanted steeds . 
The plain is passed , and a down-hill gallop over most rugged and broken ground , proved at the same time the sure-footedness of the horses , the courage of Miss von Spittergen , and the gallantry of Vivian Grey . 
asked Vivian . 
-- So saying , Miss von Spittergen pulled up Marcus Aurelius , turned her knees over his neck , and then tucking her habit several times round them , so that no part of it hung lower than her horse 's mane , she cracked her whip with great spirit , skilfully lashed the Roman emperor on the ham , and almost before Vivian had observed what she was doing , Marcus Aurelius and Miss Melinda von Spittergen were buffetting the boisterous waves . 
-- and so Vivian Grey , elevating his legs as much as he possibly could , and throwing his stirrups over his saddle , dashed into the stream . 
The road being very steep , and the horses being rather pressed by their passage , Miss von Spittergen , to Vivian 's great relief , did not immediately start off at full gallop ; and consequently her companion , who actually had not yet had an opportunity of conversing with her , seized the present one to compliment her on her horsemanship . 
continued Vivian : -- `` I trust it will not fatigue you . '' 
said Miss von Spittergen , smiling her surprise at his apprehensions . 
said Vivian -- `` but such exertions as clearing hedges , and fording rivers ! '' 
`` Really , you are shockingly severe ; '' said Vivian in a deprecating tone . 
said Vivian ; `` I admire , but do not doubt . 
`` Good heavens , Mr. Grey , what a very pretty apprehension ! 
`` I am the last man in the world to dispute woman 's superiority on any point , '' rejoined Vivian , `` except as to that physical power which is no proof of excellence ; it being an attribute we can neither acquire nor command , and one in which even the brutes surpass us . 
Mr. Grey , '' exclaimed Miss von Spittergen , `` you are running headlong into metaphysics , which always distract me . 
Miss von Spittergen and Vivian crossed a dyke from the plantation , and immediately passing through a large white wooden gate , with two hideous griffins grinning on the top of it , Marcus Aurelius dashed up to the stable door , followed by Max . 
The princely pet , unused to such rude embraces , showed certain signs of exclusiveness , which made Vivian exercise his whip across master Triton 's back ; who , in his turn , was equally irate at this unusual and ungrateful reception of his caresses . 
The dog slunk from under Vivian 's lash , and springing up behind Max , made him give a sudden and violent kick , which sent Vivian , unprepared as he was , head foremost into some low , thick bushes of bow , which had been planted to screen a pig-sty . 
It was fortunate for him that he did not make an unexpected appearance in the abode of Miss von Spittergen 's favourite Columbine -- a Chinese lady-pig , with a young family of delicate daughters , all so exquisitely high-bred , that they were almost without heads , bones , or feet . 
Columbina 's maternal fears might have inflicted on Vivian some wounds , which he escaped receiving in the yielding box -- from which , indeed , he most quickly extricated himself -- animated in his rapid exertions to regain the dignified perpendicular by the loud and unrestrained laughter of Miss von Spittergen , who saw that he had not received the slightest injury , and was therefore most unmercifully mirthful . 
`` Well , Mr. Grey ! 
said Vivian ; `` in truth , Max was not courteous enough to offer me an alternative ; but we must remember that he is not yet used to your treatment , and excuse a little ill humour . '' 
A Vis-à-vis drove up to the door , just as Miss von Spittergen and Vivian were about to enter . 
They were met on the broad flight of steps by a very old white-headed domestic , who bowed low as he passed them , to open the carriage door for his master . 
here is Mr. Grey , our visitor ; will not you come into the house ? '' 
which is he ? 
how much does he weigh ? 
This character , Dr. von Spittergen had not yet been so fortunate as to meet ; though his first inquiry , on the mention of any stranger 's name , invariably was , `` how much does he weigh ? '' 
The doctor descended , and leaning on the arm of his daughter , and followed by Vivian , he entered the house ; muttering the whole way without ceasing , much after the following fashion . 
How do you feel after your ride , Mr. Grey ? 
Where 's Theresa , that she does n't come to show Mr. Grey his room ? 
He 's tired to death I dare say ; just as I said -- nothing of him ! 
`` This way , Sir , if you please , '' said a little thin old woman , in a starched ruff and cap ; as she led Vivian down a long passage . 
Although Vivian 's toilet was far from being a complicated one , a considerable time elapsed before it was completed . 
Indeed he found some difficulty , even in taking off his coat ; for every exertion of his arms set him sliding a yard or two on the highly polished floor , and in five minutes , he had unwittingly described all the complicated figures of a first rate skaiter . 
He first flew up against a large embroidered firescreen , which the delicate fingers of some female von Spittergen had , ages ago , covered with carnations and ranunculuses ; and then whirling through the mazes of a figure of eight , he nearly drove his elbow through a small pane of the heavy-framed window . 
A semi-circle brought him in contact with the foot of his low bed , from which he bounded off at a right angle , and found himself seated in a high-backed , carved oaken chair . 
Here , while he sat forming plans for reaching the so-often missed toilet-table , the sound of the dinner-bell made him desperate ; and thinking that he could best secure his steps by walking fearlessly over the floor , he made a courageous advance , which ended in upsetting Mistress Theresa 's beau-pot . 
Scarcely flattering himself that the good lady would suspect a favourite cat of the injury done to her toilet garniture , Vivian , in a precipitate retreat forgot the fatal step , of which he had been previously warned , and measured his length in the corridor . 
`` Well , Mr. Grey ! '' 
said the Doctor , as Vivian entered the dining-room , `` have you been asleep after your ride , or has Mistress Theresa , according to her usual custom , been showing you the family curiosities ? '' 
Melinda , give me some soup -- and Mr. Grey , I 'll thank you for an outside slice of that beef in it -- and Francis , bring me some sour kraut , and those stewed apricots from the side table . '' 
While Miss von Spittergen was helping Vivian , the Doctor proceeded to chop and mash up all these contrasting viands in his large soup plate . 
Four spoonfuls emptied it , before his guest had tasted a mouthful ; for , though in violation of all etiquette , Vivian could not take his eyes off the owner of the appetite . 
His astonishment did not escape notice . 
Vivian , much confused , turned round to his fairer neighbour ; and , to his horror , found that she was consuming her dinner after the same fashion , though it must be confessed not with equal rapidity of execution . 
`` You see your dinner , Mr. Grey , '' said Miss von Spittergen . 
`` But I will attend , Doctor , '' said Vivian . 
Francis , give Mr. Grey the wine . '' 
asked Vivian . 
`` Possibly you are not aware , Mr. Grey , '' said Miss von Spittergen , `` that in this house we never take wine , except as a medicine : let me join you in my usual beverage . '' 
exclaimed Vivian , with surprise . 
`` If water contain all these monsters and horrors , '' said Vivian laughing , `` I should have thought that it would have been the favourite beverage of your system , Doctor . 
But surely , '' continued Vivian , `` a glass of spring water must be free from all these disgusting appurtenances . '' 
Dinner being over , the Doctor retired to his study , and Miss von Spittergen and Vivian agreed to take a stroll . 
`` Now , Mr. Grey , '' said the lady , `` you must know that I am a great walker . 
Miss von Spittergen proceeded to give directions for all her horse 's shoes to be taken off overnight , and his frogs looked to in the morning . 
`` I am ashamed to own , '' said Vivian , `` how ignorant I am upon all these points ; though I assure you I do not the less admire your perfect acquaintance with the subject . 
Their acquisition is , at least , a proof of the truth of my observations of this morning ; though , I suppose , according to your theory , '' continued Miss von Spittergen , smiling ; `` to direct a fall of wood or the thatching of a granary , which I must superintend to-morrow morning , are not very meritorious actions ; I being , in a great measure , enabled to interfere in such affairs , from the possession of that unfortunate physical strength , which , if you remember , Mr. Grey , is no proof of excellence . '' 
She also detailed to Vivian , as passing objects gave rise to the subject , the various plans of her father and herself , for the amelioration of the condition of their tenants , which they wished principally to bring about by extricating them from the harassing restraints of the old feudal system , injurious alike to the landlord and the tenant . 
Although Vivian , the latter years of his life , had actually lived in a forest , it seemed that he had gained more information on his much-loved trees in a few hours ' walk with Miss von Spittergen , than he had during the whole time that he was roaming about Heidelburgh . 
He was now strongly reminded of the great difference between reverie , and observation . 
He remembered sitting for hours with his eyes fixed upon a tree , of whose nature he now found himself utterly ignorant ; for Miss von Spittergen spoke of the physiology of trees ; and Vivian was ashamed when he confessed his want of knowledge . 
While he expressed his wonder and admiration of much that she said , she promised that in the evening , the microscope should elucidate and reveal more . 
Without annoying such a woman with unmeaning compliments , Vivian properly evinced his admiration of Miss von Spittergen 's accomplishments ; and delicately conveyed to her his sincere declarations that , for a long time , he had not passed a day so agreeably , and with such satisfaction . 
You must know , Mr. Grey , '' continued Miss von Spittergen , with a smile ; `` that I am the most decided enemy of long stories , and therefore I shall cut my own very short . 
Vivian remained on the terrace . 
Sunset is the time when memory is most keen ; and as Vivian Grey sat on the marble wall , gazing on the wide landscape , his sorrowing mind was not inactive . 
Never , until this moment , had he felt how precious , how invaluable , were the possession and the performance of a duty ! 
The simple tale of his late companion had roused a thousand thoughts . 
His early , his insane career , flitted across his mind . 
He would have stifled the remembrance with a sigh ; but man is the slave of Memory . 
Sad , and serious , and wavering , Vivian entered the house , uncertain of every thing except his misery . 
He found Dr. Von Spittergen and his agreeable daughter at the tea-table . 
`` Well , Mr. Grey , '' said the Doctor , `` which do you prefer ? 
Why , Melinda , here is Mr. Grey drinking tea every day of his life , and does not know the proper name of it , even when he hears it mentioned ; and he belongs to a tea-drinking nation too ! '' 
`` I believe , '' said Vivian , `` there is no nation which drinks more tea , and knows less of its nature and culture , than the English . 
`` Well , my dear father , '' said Miss von Spittergen , `` the best way to teach Mr. Grey the difference will be , to give him a basin of your curious Ficki-tsiaa . '' 
`` Yes : and while you make it , I 'll tell him what it means . 
Vivian , though very much amused by the Doctor 's lecture , could not help watching his fair daughter , whose novel method of infusing this very rare beverage not a little surprised him . 
She stirred the powder in the water till the liquid began to foam , and then she offered the cup to Vivian . 
asked Vivian , who was rather fearful of the boiling draught . 
Vivian reminded Miss von Spittergen of her promise about the microscope and the trees ; and in a few minutes they were busily examining a cutting of ash . 
She first pointed out to him the bark , and described its uses ; and then explained the sap-vessels , the lymph-ducts , the great and lesser air-vessels , the pith , and the true wood . 
She also pointed out the annual rings which mark the age of the tree , and showed likewise a dissected leaf , exhibiting the nerves branching out into innumerable small threads ; and explained to him how the pores in the leaf served both for perspiration and absorption . 
Vivian was quite surprised to discover the proximity in the economy of vegetable and animal life . 
It appeared to him , that , with the exception of sensibility and motion , one system was nearly as complete as the other . 
Nor , while he found himself acquiring so much new information , could he help mournfully feeling , how very different an acquaintance with the World is , to a knowledge of Nature . 
Indeed , that gentleman had already called upon Vivian , though hitherto , unfortunately , without succeeding in seeing him . 
Vivian quitted the Von Spittergens with regret , and with a promise of a speedy return . 
He would gladly indeed have lengthened his stay at the present moment ; but a fête which was to be given this evening by his Excellency the Grand Marshal , rendered his return necessary . 
After dining with the doctor and his interesting daughter , Vivian mounted Max , and took care not to return to the city by a cross road . 
He met Emilius von Aslingen in his ride through the gardens . 
Such a character from such a man , raised Vivian even more in the estimation of the Reisenburg world , than his flattering reception by the Grand Duke , and his cordial greeting by Madame Carolina . 
asked Vivian . 
Vivian never recollected witnessing a more brilliant scene . 
Vivian was at the top of the room , honoured by the notice of Madame Carolina , who complained of his yesterday 's absence from the palace . 
Thither also Vivian looked , and wonderstruck , beheld -- Mr. Beckendorff . 
His singular appearance , for with the exception of his cavalry boots , he presented the same figure as when he first came forward to receive the Prince of Little Lilliput and Vivian on the lawn , immediately attracted universal attention ; but in this crowded room , there were a few who , either from actual experience , or accurate information , were not ignorant that this personage was the Prime Minister . 
But great as was Vivian 's astonishment , it was not only occasioned by this unexpected appearance of his former host . 
A quick glance in a moment convinced Vivian , that she was not the original of the mysterious picture . 
Vivian had retired on their approach , and now found himself among a set of young officers -- idolaters of Von Aslingen , and of white hats lined with crimson . 
Vivian did not choose to presume upon his late acquaintance with Mr. Beckendorff , as it had not been sought by that gentleman , and he consequently did not pay his respects to the Minister . 
`` My dear Prince , '' said Vivian to the Grand Marshal , `` you are just the person I wanted to speak to . 
As Vivian was doubting whether he should most grieve or laugh , at this singular termination of Mr. Sievers ' career , his arm was suddenly seized , and on turning round , he found it was by Mr. Beckendorff . 
And then Mr. Beckendorff , taking Vivian by the arm , began walking up and down part of the saloon with him ; and in a few minutes , quite forgetting the scene of the discussion , he was involved in the deepest metaphysics . 
The approach of his Royal Highness extricated Vivian from an argument , which was as profound as it was interminable ; and as Mr. Beckendorff retired with the Grand Duke into a recess in the ball-room , Vivian was requested by Von Neuwied to attend his Excellency the Grand Marshal . 
eh Grey ? 
we all were gay once , you know , Grey . 
I never shall come to the point -- this girl , -- every attention should be paid her ; and I think , considering what has taken place between Beckendorff and yourself , and the very polite , and marked , and flattering , and particularly attentive manner in which he recognised you , -- I think , that after all this , and considering every thing , the etiquette is for you , my dear Grey , particularly as you are a foreigner , and my personal friend -- indeed my most particular friend , for in fact I owe every thing to you -- my life , and more than my life , -- I think , I repeat , considering all this , that the least you can do is to ask her to dance with you ; and I , as the host , will introduce you . 
After an introductory speech , in his Excellency 's happiest manner , and in which an eulogium of Vivian , and a compliment to the fair unknown , got almost as completely entangled as the origin of slavery , and the history of the feudal system , in his more celebrated harangue ; Vivian found himself waltzing with the anonymous beauty . 
Vivian was extremely desirous of discovering the nature of the relationship , or connexion , between Beckendorff and his partner . 
The rapid waltz allowed no pause for conversation ; but after the dance , Vivian seated himself at her side , with the determination of not very quickly deserting it . 
The lady did not even allow him the satisfaction of commencing the conversation ; for no sooner was she seated , than she begged to know who the person was with whom she had previously waltzed . 
The history of Count von Sohnspeer exceedingly amused her ; and no sooner had Vivian finished his anecdote , than the lady said , `` Ah ! 
`` Really , '' said Vivian , `` I fear I shall forfeit my reputation of being amusing very speedily ; for I am almost as great a stranger at this Court as you appear to be yourself ! 
`` I am aware of that , '' said Vivian . 
`` The most powerful individual in the room , '' answered Vivian . 
rejoined Vivian : `` for with him it rests to decide , whether you are civilized , or a savage ; whether you are to be abhorred , or admired ; idolized , or despised . 
The lady pleaded fatigue , as an excuse for not again dancing ; and Vivian , of course , did not quit her side . 
Her lively remarks , piquant observations , and very singular questions , highly amused him ; and he was equally flattered by the evident gratification which his conversation afforded her . 
It was chiefly of the principal members of the Court that she spoke : she was delighted with Vivian 's glowing character of Madame Carolina , whom she said she had this evening seen for the first time . 
Who this unknown could be , was a question which often occurred to him ; and the singularity of a man like Beckendorff , suddenly breaking through his habits , and outraging the whole system of his existence , to please a daughter , or niece , or female cousin , did not fail to strike him . 
`` I have the honour of being acquainted with Mr. Beckendorff , '' said Vivian . 
asked Vivian , smiling . 
Vivian looked grave ; and the lady , as if she were sensible of having unintentionally occasioned him a painful recollection , again expressed her wish that he should not immediately quit the Court , and trusted that circumstances would not prevent him acceding to her desire . 
`` It does not even depend upon circumstances , '' said Vivian ; `` the whim of the moment is my only principle of action , and therefore I may be off to-night , or be here a month hence . '' 
pray stay then , '' said his companion , eagerly ; `` I expect you to stay now . 
She did not cease speaking , but continued to request Vivian to remain at Reisenburg at least as long as herself . 
Her frequent requests were perfectly unnecessary , for the promise had been pledged at the first hint of her wish ; but this was not the only time during the evening , that Vivian had remarked , that his interesting companion occasionally talked without apparently being sensible that she was conversing . 
The young Count of Eberstein , who , to use his own phrase , was ` sadly involved , ' and consequently very desirous of being appointed a forest Councillor , thought that he should secure his appointment , by condescending to notice the person whom he delicately styled ` the Minister 's female relative . ' 
In the fright of the moment , the natural feelings of the child all returned ; and , like all frightened children , he sought a friend -- he ran to Vivian . 
Vivian had promised Madame Carolina a second English lesson on the day after the Grand Marshal 's fête . 
The great progress which the lady had made , and the great talent which the gentleman had evinced during the first , had rendered Madame the most enthusiastic of pupils , and Vivian , in her estimation , the ablest of instructors . 
No sooner had her eyes lighted on Vivian Grey , than she determined to patronize . 
His country , his appearance , the romantic manner in which he had become connected with the Court , all pleased her lively imagination . 
She was intuitively acquainted with his whole history , and in an instant he was the hero of a romance , of which the presence of the principal character compensated , we may suppose , for the somewhat indefinite details . 
A low Dutch professor , whose luminous genius rendered unnecessary the ceremony of shaving ; and a dumb dwarf , in whose interesting appearance was forgotten its perfect idiotism ; a prosy improvisatore , and a South American savage , were all superseded on the appearance of Vivian Grey . 
Apartments in the palace were offered him , and declined ; and when Madame Carolina had become acquainted with sufficient of his real history , to know that , on his part , neither wish nor necessity existed to return immediately to his own country , she tempted him to remain at Reisenburg by an offer of a place at Court ; and doubtless , had he been willing , Vivian might in time have become a Lord Chamberlain , or perhaps even a Field Marshal . 
On entering the room , the morning in question , he found Madame Carolina writing . 
At the end of the apartment , a lady ceased , on his appearance , humming an air to which she was dancing , and at the same time imitating castanets . 
Madame received Vivian with expressions of the greatest delight , saying also , in a very peculiar and confidential manner , that she was just sealing up a packet for him , the preface of Haroun ; and then she introduced him to ` the Baroness ! ' 
Vivian turned and bowed : the lady who was lately dancing , came forward . 
It was his unknown partner of the preceding night . 
The Baroness extended her hand to Vivian , and unaffectedly expressed her great pleasure at seeing him again . 
Vivian trusted that she was not fatigued by the fête , and asked after Mr. Beckendorff . 
Last night had been one of the most agreeable she had ever spent , at least she supposed she ought to say so : for if she had experienced a tedious or mournful feeling for a moment , it was hardly for what was then passing , so much as for -- `` Pray , Mr. Grey , '' said Madame Carolina , interrupting them , `` have you heard about our new ballet ? '' 
`` We estimate it even in England , '' said Vivian , `` as possessing perhaps the most perfect orchestra now organized . '' 
His Royal Highness is such an excellent musician , and he has spared no trouble nor expense in forming it : he has always superintended it himself . 
asked Vivian of the Baroness . 
This puzzling answer was only noticed by Vivian ; for the truth is , Madame Carolina was one of those individuals who never attend to any person 's answers . 
Lord Byron and the ballet again occurred to her ; and as the Baroness , at least , was not unwilling to listen , and as she herself had no manuscript of her own which she particularly wished to be perused , she proposed that Vivian should read to them part of the Corsair , and in the original tongue . 
Vivian read with care and feeling . 
At length Vivian came to this passage -- `` Oh ! 
thought Vivian ; `` but your eyes are so brilliant that nothing must be refused you ! '' 
and so he did translate it . 
She appeared extremely agitated ; she changed colour -- raised her beautiful eyes with an expression of great sorrow -- looked at Vivian very earnestly , and then walked to the other end of the room . 
said Madame Carolina ; `` at present I wish to trouble Mr. Grey with a few questions . '' 
Madame Carolina led Vivian into a recess . 
His Royal Highness is so anxious that every attention should be paid to her . 
Vivian was about to retire on the entrance of the Grand Duke ; but Madame Carolina prevented him , and his Royal Highness turning round , very graciously seconded her desire , and added that Mr. Grey was the very gentleman with whom he was desirous of meeting . 
`` I am anxious , '' said he to Vivian , in rather a low tone , `` to make Riesenburg agreeable to Mr. Beckendorff 's fair friend . 
His Royal Highness proposed that the ladies should ride ; and he himself , with the Crown-Prince and Mr. Grey , would attend them . 
To Vivian 's surprise , even the Grand Duke humoured her fancy , and declared that he should then be happy to attend them after the Court-dinner . 
Until that time Vivian was amused by Madame ; and the Grand Duke exclusively devoted himself to the Baroness . 
His Royal Highness was in his happiest mood ; and his winning manners and elegant conversation , soon chased away the cloud which , for a moment , had settled on the young lady 's fair brow . 
Vivian could not fail to be delighted with this beautiful work of art , for such indeed it should be styled . 
He was more surprised , however , but not less pleased , on the entrance of Othello himself . 
The Baroness expressed to Vivian her great delight at its being over ; as she was extremely desirous of learning the story of the ballet , which she had not yet been able to acquire . 
His translation of yesterday had greatly interested her . 
Vivian shortly gave her the outline of the story of Conrad . 
Vivian never felt before , that words were useless . 
His hand was violently pressed . 
He turned round : -- it was the Baroness . 
said Vivian ; who was at her side . 
When the Crown Prince , in violation of his father 's wishes , fell into the party , and allowed his regiment to be headed by the Lieutenant-colonel , the young lady raised her lustrous eyes to heaven , with that same beautiful expression of sorrow or resignation , which had so much interested Vivian on the morning that he had translated to her the moving passage in the Corsair . 
`` In the tent keep by my side : '' said the Baroness to Vivian . 
As Vivian acknowledged the young Baroness ' compliment by becoming emotion , and vowed that an office near her person would be the consummation of all his wishes , his eye caught the lady 's : she blushed deeply , looked down upon her horse 's neck , and then turned away her head . 
They cantered home -- the Baroness in unusual spirits -- Vivian thinking very much of his fair companion . 
Her character puzzled him . 
That she was not the lovely simpleton that Madame Carolina believed her to be , he had little doubt . 
That the Baroness was a woman of acute feeling , Vivian could not doubt . 
That she had seen more of the world than her previous conversation had given him to believe , was equally clear by her conduct and conversation this morning . 
He determined to become more acquainted with her character . 
Her evident partiality to his company would not render the execution of his purpose difficult . 
At any rate , if he discovered nothing , it was something to do : it would at least amuse him . 
In the evening he joined a large party at the palace . 
He looked immediately for the Baroness . 
Without obtruding himself on her notice , Vivian joined her circle , and witnessed her demolition of the young Count of Eberstein with great amusement . 
The young lady soon observed Vivian ; and saying , without the least embarrassment , that she was delighted to see him , she begged him to share her chaise-longue . 
Vivian and the Baroness were left alone , and conversed together the whole evening . 
Vivian was convinced that her ignorance was not affected , and equally sure that it could not arise from imbecility of intellect ; for while she surprised him by her crude questions , and her want of acquaintance with all those topics which generally form the staple of conversation ; she equally amused him with her poignant wit , and the imperious and energetic manner in which she instantly expected satisfactory information on every possible subject . 
Marot was a true poet , and in his day not merely read by queens , and honoured by courtiers : observe him , I say , well ; for the character is supported by one who is a great favourite with myself , and I trust also with you , sweet reader , -- our Vivian Grey . 
Clement Marot was about to fall back into a less conspicuous part of the procession ; but the Grand Duke , witnessing the regret of his loved Consort , condescendingly said , `` We can not afford to lose our poet ; '' and so Vivian found himself walking behind Madame Carolina , and on the left side of the young Baroness . 
The gracious Grand Duke , unwilling to see a gloomy countenance any where to-night , turned to Vivian , who was speaking to Madame Carolina , and said , `` Gentle poet , would that thou hadst some chanson or courtly compliment , to chase the cloud which hovers on the brow of our much-loved daughter of Austria ! 
Your popularity , Sir , '' continued the Grand Duke , dropping his mock heroic vein , and speaking in a much lower tone ; `` your popularity , Sir , among the ladies of the Court , can not be increased by any panegyric of ours ; nor are we insensible , believe us , to the assiduity and skill with which you have complied with our wishes , in making our Court agreeable to the relative of a man , to whom we owe so much as Mr. Beckendorff . 
We are informed , Mr. Grey , '' continued his Royal Highness , `` that you have no intention of very speedily returning to your country ; we wish that we could count you among our peculiar attendants . 
Leaning against the trunk of a tree at some little distance , Vivian Grey watched the formation and dissolution of the young Baroness 's levee , with the liveliest interest . 
His eyes met the lady 's , as she raised them from the ground , on Von Sohnspeer quitting her . 
She immediately beckoned to Vivian , but without her usual smile . 
He was directly at her side , but she did not speak . 
At last he said , `` I think this is a most brilliant scene ! '' 
answered the lady , in a tone and manner which almost made Vivian believe for a moment , that his friend Mr. Beckendorff was at his side . 
`` Decidedly his daughter ! '' 
said Vivian . 
`` I hardly know what my usual spirits are , '' said the lady ; in a manner which would have made Vivian imagine that his presence was as disagreeable to her as that of Count von Sohnspeer , had not the lady herself invited his company . 
asked Vivian . 
`` It is most considerate in you , '' said Vivian , `` to undertake such an office ; for it is one which you , yourself , are alone capable of fulfilling . 
The Baroness and Vivian left the amphitheatre , by a different path to that by which the Grand Duke and Madame Carolina had quitted it . 
Vivian and his companion strolled about for some time , conversing on subjects of casual interest . 
The Baroness , though no longer absent , either in her manner or her conversation , was not in her accustomed spirits ; and Vivian , while he flattered himself that he was more entertaining than usual , felt , to his mortification , that the lady was not entertained . 
`` I am afraid you find it very dull here , '' said he ; `` shall we return ? '' 
As Vivian was about to reply , he heard the joyous voice of young Maximilian ; it sounded very near ; the royal party was approaching . 
`` A scene which I should have thought would have been particularly charming to you , '' said Vivian ; `` you are dispirited to-night ? '' 
said Vivian , with a searching eye and inquiring voice . 
said Vivian . 
`` To find that you have cause to grieve , '' said Vivian ; `` and to learn from you , at the same time , your opinion of my own lot , prove what I have too often had the sad opportunity of observing ; that the face of man is scarcely more genuine and less deceitful , than these masquerade dresses which we now wear . '' 
`` Not now , '' said Vivian . 
His companion seated herself on the marble balustrade which surrounded the fountain : she did not immediately speak again , and Vivian was silent , for he was watching her motionless countenance as her large brilliant eyes gazed with earnestness on the falling water sparkling in the moonlight . 
lady , '' said Vivian , as he knelt at her side ; `` why are we not happy ? '' 
His arm is round her waist -- gently he bends his head -- their speaking eyes meet , and their trembling lips cling into a kiss ! 
She extricated herself from his arm , and sprang upon her feet . 
The reader is not to suppose that Vivian Grey thought of the young Baroness , merely in the rapid scenes which I have sketched . 
There were few moments in the day in which her image did not occupy his thoughts , and which indeed , he did not spend in her presence . 
Of the precise nature of her connexion with Beckendorff , Vivian was wholly ignorant . 
The world spoke of her as his daughter , and the affirmation of Madame Carolina confirmed the world 's report . 
Her name was still unknown to him ; and although , during the few moments that they had enjoyed an opportunity of conversing together alone , Vivian had made every exertion , of which good breeding , impelled by curiosity , is capable , and had devised many little artifices , with which a schooled address is well acquainted , to obtain it , his exertions had hitherto been perfectly unsuccessful . 
If there were a mystery , the young lady was perfectly competent to preserve it ; and with all her naïveté , her interesting ignorance of the world , and her evidently uncontrollable spirit , no hasty word ever fell from her cautious lips , which threw any light on the objects of his inquiry . 
That display of overpowering feeling had cost Vivian a sleepless night ; and he is at this instant pacing up and down the chamber of his hotel , thinking of that which he had imagined could exercise his thought no more . 
She was beautiful -- she loved him ; -- she was unhappy ! 
The memory of Violet Fane was still as fresh , as sweet , to the mind of Vivian Grey , as when he pressed her blushing cheek , for the first and only time . 
To love again -- really to love as he had done -- he once thought was impossible ; he thought so still . 
The character of the Baroness , as I have said , had interested him from the first . 
Vivian had yielded to the magic of the moment , and had returned the love , apparently no sooner proffered than withdrawn . 
Had he left the gardens of the palace the Baroness 's plighted lover , he might perhaps have deplored his rash engagement ; and the sacred image of his first , and hallowed love , might have risen up in judgment against his violated affection -- but how had he , and the interesting stranger parted ? 
He was rejected , even while his affection was returned ; and while her flattering voice told him that he alone could make her happy , she had mournfully declared that happiness could not be hers . 
Her agitation at the Opera , often the object of his thought , quickly occurred to him . 
-- this proud possessor of a heart which could not beat for him ! 
The Field Marshal too was the valued friend of the Minister ; and it did not fail to occur to Vivian that it was not Von Sohnspeer 's fault , that his attendance on the Baroness was not as constant as his own . 
No sooner was the affair clear to Vivian -- no sooner was he convinced that a powerful obstacle existed to the love or union of himself and the Baroness , than he began to ask , what right the interests of third persons had to interfere between the mutual affection of any individuals . 
He thought of her in the moonlit garden , struggling with her pure and natural passion . 
He thought of her exceeding beauty -- her exceeding love . 
He beheld this rare and lovely creature in the embrace of Von Sohnspeer . 
He turned from the picture in disgust and indignation . 
She was his -- Nature had decreed it . 
Vivian called at the palace , but the fatigues of the preceding night prevented either of the ladies from being visible . 
In the evening , he joined a very small and select circle . 
The quiet of the little circle did not more strikingly contrast with the noise , and glare , and splendour of the last night , than did Vivian 's subdued reception by the Baroness , with her agitated demeanour in the garden . 
He found it quite impossible to gain even one moment 's private conversation with her . 
Madame Carolina monopolized his attention , as much to favour the views of the Field Marshal , as to discuss the comparative merits of Pope , as a moralist and a poet ; and Vivian had the mortification of observing his odious rival , whom he now thoroughly detested , discharge , without ceasing , his royal salutes in the impatient ear of Beckendorff 's lovely daughter . 
Madame Carolina was being overwhelmed with the compliments of the Grand Marshal , and Vivian seized the opportunity of reaching the Baroness . 
Vivian gave it her . 
Vivian gave a rapid glance round the room . 
No one was observing him , and the glove was immediately in his pocket . 
He hurried home , rushed up the staircase of the hotel , ordered lights , locked the door , and with a sensation of indescribable anxiety , tore the precious glove out of his pocket ; seized , opened , and read the enclosed , and following note . 
Vivian read the note over a thousand times . 
He could not retire to rest . 
He called Essper George , and gave him all necessary directions for the morning . 
About three o'clock Vivian lay down on a sofa , and slept for a few hours . 
He started often , in his short and feverish slumber . 
His dreams were unceasing and inexplicable . 
Vivian was at Ems -- walking under the well-remembered lime trees , and with the Baroness . 
Suddenly , although it was mid-day , the Sun became very large , blood-red , and fell out of the heavens -- his companion screamed -- a man rushed forward with a drawn sword . 
Vivian tried to oppose him , but without success . 
The infuriate ruffian sheathed his weapon in the heart of the Baroness . 
Vivian shrieked , and fell upon her body -- and to his horror , found himself embracing the cold corpse of Violet Fane ! 
Vivian and Essper mounted their horses about seven o'clock . 
At eight , they had reached a small inn near the Forest Councillor 's house , where Vivian was to remain until Essper had watched the entrance of the Minister . 
Vivian immediately mounted Max , and telling Essper to keep a sharp watch , he set spurs to his horse . 
He patted the horse 's neck -- the animal 's erected ears proved how well it understood its master 's wishes ; and taking advantage of the loose bridle , which was confidently allowed it , the horse sprang , rather than galloped to the Minister 's residence . 
Nearly an hour , however , was lost in gaining the private road , for Vivian , after the caution in the Baroness 's letter , did not dare the high road . 
He is galloping up the winding rural lane , where he met Beckendorff on the second morning of his visit . 
He has reached the little gate , and following the example of the Grand Duke , ties Max at the entrance . 
Overcome by her emotions , she did not move forward to meet him as he entered ; but Vivian observed neither her constraint , nor her agitation . 
He caught her in his arms . 
She struggled not to disengage herself ; but as he dropped upon one knee , she suffered him gently to draw her down upon the other . 
Her head sank upon her arm , which rested upon his shoulder . 
He endeavoured to calm her , but her agitation increased ; and many , many minutes elapsed , ere she seemed to be even sensible of his presence . 
asked Vivian , with a voice of the greatest anxiety . 
As Vivian was just raising her from his knee , he was suddenly seized by the throat with a strong grasp . 
He turned round -- it was Mr. Beckendorff , with a face deadly white , his full eyes darting from their sockets like a hungry snake 's , and the famous Italian dagger in his right hand . 
Vivian 's first thoughts were for the Baroness ; and turning his head from Beckendorff , he looked with the eye of anxious love to his companion . 
She extricated herself immediately from Vivian 's encircling arm ; and by so doing , enabled him to spring upon his legs , and to have struggled , if it had been necessary , more equally with the powerful grasp of his assailant . 
Beckendorff , for one moment , was motionless : he then gave her a look of the most piercing earnestness , threw Vivian , rather than released him , from his hold , and flung the dagger , with a bitter smile , into the corner of the room . 
said he , in a choking voice , `` you are obeyed ! '' 
`` Mr. Grey , '' continued the Baroness , `` I regret that this outrage should have been experienced by you , because you have dared to serve me . 
So saying , the lady bowing to Vivian , and sweeping by the Minister , with a a glance of indescribable disdain , quitted the apartment . 
As she was on the point of leaving the room , Vivian was standing against the wall , with a pale face and folded arms , -- Beckendorff with his back to the window , his eyes fixed on the ground -- and Vivian to his astonishment perceived , what escaped the Minister 's notice , that while the lady bade him adieu with one hand , she made rapid signs with the other to some unknown person in the garden . 
Mr. Beckendorff and Vivian were left alone , and the latter was the first to break silence . 
said Vivian ; `` Good God ! 
`` Mr. Beckendorff , '' said Vivian , `` I am overwhelmed ; I declare , upon my honour -- '' `` Stop , Sir ! 
As Mr. Beckendorff quitted the room , his confidential servant , the messenger to Turriparva , entered ; and with the most respectful bow , informed Vivian that the horses were ready . 
In about three hours time , Vivian Grey , followed by the Government messenger , stopped at his hotel . 
The landlord , and waiters , bowed with increased obsequiousness , on seeing him so attended ; and in a few minutes , Reisenburg was ringing with the news , that his appointment to the Under-secretaryship of state , was now ' a settled thing . ' 
The landlord of the Grand Hotel of the Four Nations at Reisenburg , was somewhat consoled for the sudden departure of his distinguished customer , by selling the Plenipotentiary a travelling carriage , lately taken for a doubtful bill from a gambling Russian General , at one hundred per cent . 
In this convenient vehicle , in the course of a couple of hours after his arrival in the city , was Mr. Vivian Grey borne through the gate of the Allies . 
Vivian had never travelled before with such style and speed . 
After nearly three hours travelling , which to Vivian seemed both an age and a minute , he was roused from his stupor by the door of his calèche being opened . 
He shook himself as a man does , who has wakened from a benumbing and heavy sleep , although his eyes were the whole time wide open . 
Just as Vivian , to whose tortured mind the rapid movement of the carriage was some relief -- for it produced an excitement which prevented thought -- was about to inquire the cause of this stoppage , Essper George rode up to the calèche . 
Vivian tore open the packet . 
It was to have been forwarded to Vivian , in case of their not being able to meet . 
Vivian read the Archduchess 's letter over , and over again ; and then put it in his breast . 
At first he thought that he had lived to shed another tear ; but he was mistaken . 
In a few minutes he found himself quite roused from his late overwhelming stupor -- quite light-hearted -- almost gay . 
Remorse , or regret for the past -- care , or caution for the future , seemed at the same moment to have fled from his mind . 
He looked up to Heaven , with a wild smile -- half of despair , and half of defiance . 
It seemed to imply , that Fate had now done her worst ; and that he had at last the satisfaction of knowing himself to be the most unfortunate and unhappy being that ever existed . 
Indeed he proposed resting there for the night , for both men and beasts much required repose ; but Vivian panted to reach Vienna , to which city two days travelling would now carry him . 
His passions were so roused , and his powers of reflection so annihilated , that while he had determined to act desperately , he was unable to resolve upon any thing desperate . 
Whether , on his arrival at the Austrian capital , he should plunge into dissipation , or into the Danube , was equally uncertain . 
He had some thought of joining the Greeks or Turks -- no matter which -- probably the latter -- or perhaps of serving in the Americas . 
The idea of returning to England never once entered his mind : he expected to find letters from his father at Vienna , and he almost regretted it ; for , in his excessive misery , it was painful to be conscious that a being still breathed , who was his friend . 
It was a fine moonlight night , but the road was very mountainous ; and in spite of all the encouragement of Vivian , and all the consequent exertions of the postilion , they were upwards of two hours and a half going these eight miles . 
His anxiety , however , was not merely selfish : he was as desirous that his young master should be refreshed by a good night 's rest , as himself ; and anticipating that he should have to exercise his skill in making a couch for Vivian in the carriage , he proceeded to cross-examine the post-master on the possibility of his accommodating them . 
His long black hair was very exquisitely braided ; and he wore round his neck a collar of pewter medals , all which had been recently sprinkled with holy water , and blessed under the petticoat of the saintly Virgin ; for the post-master had only just returned from a pilgrimage to the celebrated shrine of the Black Lady of Altoting . 
This adroit introduction of the red cabbage and cream settled every thing -- when men are wearied and famished , they have no inclination to be incredulous -- and in a few moments Vivian was informed by his servant , that the promised accommodation was satisfactory ; and having locked up the carriage , and wheeled it into a small outhouse , he and Essper were ushered by their host into a room , which , as is usual in small German inns in the South , served at the same time both for kitchen and saloon . 
A family of wandering Bohemians , consisting of the father and mother , and three children , were seated on the platform when Vivian entered : the man was playing on a coarse wooden harp , without which the Bohemians seldom travel . 
The music ceased , as the new guests came into the room , and the Bohemian courteously offered his place at the fire to our hero ; who , however , declined disturbing the family group . 
At this table , Vivian and his servant seated themselves ; and , in spite of his misfortunes , Vivian was soon engaged in devouring the often-supplied and savoury rashers of the good woman ; nor , indeed , did her cookery discredit the panegyric of the Reverend Vice-Principal of the Convent of Molk . 
Alike wearied in mind and body , Vivian soon asked for his bed ; which , though not exactly fit for an Aulic Councillor , as the good host perpetually avowed it to be , nevertheless afforded very decent accommodation . 
The noise of his entrance roused the landlord and his wife , who had been sleeping by the fire ; since , not having a single bed besides their own , they had given that up to Vivian . 
Giving one wide stare , and then rubbing his eyes , the whole truth lighted upon him ; and so , being in the humour for flinging , he sent the Bohemian 's lantern at his landlord 's head . 
As it was now morning , Vivian did not again retire to rest , but took advantage of the disturbance in the Inn , to continue his route at an earlier hour than he had previously intended . 
As he was informed that he would meet with no accommodation for the next fifty or sixty miles , his projected course lying through an extremely mountainous and wild tract in the vicinity of the Lake of Gmunden , he was fain to postpone his departure , until he and his attendant had procured their breakfasts ; and moreover , willingly acceded to a suggestion of the post-master , of taking with him a small basket , containing some slight refreshment for their ` noon meal . ' 
The conduct of mine host and his good wife , had been so exceedingly obliging -- for Vivian had not even listened to Essper 's complaint , treating the whole affair as a drunken brawl -- that Vivian had nearly made up his mind to wave the ceremony of having a regular bill presented to him ; and feeling that the greatest charge which the post-master could make for his accommodation , could not reward him for his considerate conduct , he was on the point of making him a very handsome present , when the account was sent in . 
To Vivian 's astonishment , he found that the charge exceeded , by about five times as much , the amount of his intended , and , as he had considered it , rather extravagant gratuity . 
Then came Vivian 's light supper , figuring as a dinner pour un maître ; and as for Essper George 's feed , it was inserted under two different heads , ` servant 's dinner , ' and ` servant 's supper ; ' the retirement of Vivian from the smoky kitchen , having been the event which distinguished the moment when the first meal had terminated , and the second commenced . 
Vivian scarcely got as far as their breakfasts , but even their excessive price passed from his mind , when his eye lighted on the enormous item which entitled them to the basket of provisions . 
Vivian contented himself , however , with returning the account by Essper to the post-master , who took care not to be in his customer 's presence ; informing mine host that there was some little mistake in his demand , and requesting him to make out a new charge . 
He had become sullen , and silent ; listened to Vivian 's message with imperturbable composure , and then refused to reduce his charge one single kreützer . 
Vivian , whose calm philosophy had received rather a rude shock since his last interview with Mr. Beckendorff , and who was not therefore in the most amiable of humours , did not now conceal his indignation ; nor , as far as words could make an impression , spare the late object of his intended generosity . 
That pious person bore his abuse like a true Christian ; crossing himself at every opprobrious epithet that was heaped upon him , with great reverence , and kissing a holy medal of his blessed necklace whenever his guest threatened vengeance and anticipated redress . 
With arms a-kimbo , and flashing eyes , the vixen poured forth a volley of abuse both of Vivian and his servant , which seemed to astonish even her experienced husband . 
To leave the house without satisfying the full demand was impossible ; for the demandant , being post-master , could of course prevent the progress of his victim . 
In this state of affairs , irritated and defied , Vivian threatened to apply to the Judge of the district . 
His threat bore with it no terrors : and imagining that the post-master reckoned that his guest was merely blustering , Vivian determined to carry the business through ; and asked of a few idle persons who were standing round , which of them would show him the way to the Judge of the district . 
Vivian , however , did not choose to rely upon the post-master 's faith ; and so , attended by a young peasant , and followed at a few yards distance by their host , he and Essper proceeded to find the Judge of the district . 
said his Worship as he raised himself on his elbows , staring in Vivian 's face . 
Vivian very temperately and briefly detailed the occasion of his visit . 
While this scene was acting , Essper George got wound up to such a pitch of frenzy , between the injustice which he considered his master was doing to their case , the hypocritical gesticulations of the defendant , and the restraint laid upon his perpetual interference by Vivian , and the looks of the Judge ; that he could only be compared to a wild cat in a cage , hissing , spitting , threatening with his pawing hands , and setting up his back , as if he were about to spring upon his adversary and throttle him . 
His Worship looked angrily round , and Vivian again commanded Essper to be silent . 
Vivian threw down the sum in disgust , without deigning to reply ; but Essper George was not so dignified . 
This unsuccessful appeal to justice cost Vivian almost as many golden hours , as it had golden Sovereigns . 
At length , however , his carriage drove off . 
-- His host neither showed pique at his opposition , nor triumph at his defeat : he was just as pious and polite as on the evening of their arrival , and crossed himself , and bowed to his departing guest , with emulative fervor . 
His wife , however , standing in the window , testified her exultation by clapping her hands , and laughing , as the carriage went off . 
The postilion blew his horn with unusual spirit , to announce the arrival of a traveller of consequence , at the next post-house ; and Vivian had the mortification of being whirled up to the gateway of a large and well-appointed Inn , situated in the high street of a smart-looking little town . 
The consciousness that he had been seduced into staying at the miserable place where he had passed the night , under the pretence that there was no better accommodation within fifty miles , the sight of his costly basket of broken victuals , and the recollection of the expense of time and money which he had incurred through his credulity , were not calculated to render his mood the most amiable . 
The postilion , perhaps observing a cloud upon his brow , and anticipating that he might suffer for his master 's villainy , bowed very low when he came up to the door of the carriage to be paid , and trusted most respectfully that his drink-money would not be diminished , for any thing that had happened . 
`` I was very sorry Sir , '' continued he , `` for what took place with my master ; but I could do nothing , Sir : I could not drive you without an order . 
While Vivian was speaking to the postilion , he heard the sound of a hammer behind the carriage ; and , on looking round , perceived a man busily employed in working at one of the springs . 
Vivian , convinced that his calèche did not , or ought not , to require the exercise of this artist 's talents , after much trouble and some high talking , prevented him from proceeding . 
Vivian , of course , refused to satisfy the fellow 's insolent demand ; and begged to assure him that he was not one of those English lords , whom evidently the considerate smith was in the habit of practising upon . 
In the course of an hour , Vivian was obliged to desire the postilion to drive carefully ; and before the end of another , they had to ford a rivulet , running between two high banks . 
The scenery just here was particularly lovely , and Vivian 's attention was so engrossed by it , that he did not observe the danger which he was about to incur . 
On the side of the village nearest to Vivian , a bold sheet of water discharged itself in three separate falls , between the ravine of a wooded mountain ; and flowing round the village as a fine broad river , expanded , before it reached the foundation of the castled rock , into a long and deep lake , which was also fed by numerous streams , the gulleys only of which were now visible down the steep sides of the mountains -- their springs having been long dried up . 
Vivian 's view was interrupted by his sudden descent into the bed of the rivulet , one of the numerous branches of the mountain torrent , and by a crash which as immediately ensued . 
The carriage of course fell over , but Vivian sustained no injury ; and while Essper George rode forward to the village for assistance , his master helped the postilion to extricate the horses and secure them on the opposite bank . 
They had done all that was in their power some time before Essper returned ; and Vivian , who had seated himself on some tangled beech-roots , was prevented growing impatient by contemplating the enchanting scenery . 
The postilion , on the contrary , who had travelled this road every day of his life , and who found no gratification in gazing upon rocks , woods , and waterfalls , lit his pipe , and occasionally talked to his horses . 
Essper at length made his appearance , attended by five or six peasants , all dressed in holiday costume , with some fanciful decorations ; their broad hats wreathed with wild flowers , their short brown jackets covered with buttons and fringe , and various-coloured ribands streaming from their knees . 
The calèche appeared to be so much shattered , that they only ventured to put in one horse ; and Vivian , leaving his carriage in charge of Essper and the postilion , mounted Max , and rode to the village , attended by the peasants . 
Vivian immediately made some excuse for not accepting their master 's hospitable invitation , and requested to be shown to the nearest Inn . 
He learnt , to his dismay , that the village did not boast a single one ; the existence of such an establishment not being permitted by their Lord , who , however , was always most happy to entertain any stranger at his castle . 
As his calèche was decidedly too much injured to proceed farther that day , Vivian had evidently , from the account of these persons , no alternative ; and therefore allowed himself to be introduced according to their instructions . 
said Vivian to one of his conductors . 
Vivian was much struck with the appearance of the little settlement , as he rode through it . 
This venerable person cordially offered his hand to Vivian , regretted his accident , but expressed much pleasure that he had come to partake of their happiness . 
The bridegroom was at first shaded by the curtain ; but , as he came forward , Vivian started when he recognised his Heidelburg friend , Eugene von Konigstein ! '' 
`` I dare say you will soon perceive , Sir , '' said the old lady to Vivian , while his lordship was speaking , `` that my dear brother is debarred , in a great degree , from enjoying your society , by his unfortunate deafness : he scarcely ever hears even what I say to him ; though he has been accustomed to my voice so many years . 
Vivian inquired after the Baron . 
He learnt from Eugene that he had quitted Europe about a month , having sailed as Minister to one of the New American States . 
said the old lord to Vivian , `` this must be a very gratifying sight to you ! 
By this time the procession had formed a semicircle before the tent ; the Abbé standing in the middle , with a paper in his hand , and dividing the two bands of choristers . 
He gave a signal with his cane , and the girls commenced : -- Hours fly ! 
it is Morn : he has left the bed of love ! 
She follows him with a strained eye , when his figure is no longer seen : she leans her head upon her arm . 
She is faithful to him , as the lake to the mountain ! 
While he labours , he thinks of her ! 
while he controls others , he will obey her ! 
Vivian was now invited to the pavilion , where refreshments were prepared . 
`` This gentleman , '' said the old Lord , pointing to Vivian , `` is my son 's most particular friend , and I am quite sure that you are all delighted to see him . 
I will take you over it myself , Mr. Grey : it is not fair , because you came a day too late , that you should miss the finest sight of all . 
The old gentleman proceeded to give Vivian a long description of the ceremony . 
He was terribly disappointed , and equally annoyed , when he found that our hero could not be present at the festivities of the morrow . 
At first my Lord was singularly deaf ; he could not conceive the bare idea of the possibility of any person wishing to leave him at the present moment ; but when his guest assured , and finally by frequent repetition made him understand , that nothing but the most peremptory business could command , under such circumstances , his presence at Vienna ; the old gentleman , a great stickler for duty , and a great respecter of public business , which he had persuaded himself could alone prevail upon Vivian to make such a sacrifice , kindly commiserated his situation ; and consoled him by saying , that he thought he was the most unlucky fellow with whom he ever had the pleasure of being acquainted . 
bawled he to the old lady . 
`` I am glad , Sir , '' said the old lady to Vivian , seeing that she was spoken to ; `` I am glad that we shall have the pleasure of your company at the fête to-morrow . 
Vivian waltzed with the bride , little qualified as he now was to engage in the light dance ! 
But to refuse the distinguished honour was impossible ; and so , in spite of his misery , he was soon spinning on the green . 
At that place , Vivian and Essper were also to arrive on the afternoon of their second day 's journey . 
As the castle was quite full of visitors , its hospitable master apologized to Vivian for lodging him for the night , at the cottage of one of his favourite tenants . 
Nothing would give greater pleasure to Vivian than this circumstance , nor more annoyance to the worthy old gentleman . 
Vivian did not press Essper 's leaving the revellers , so great an acquisition did he seem to their sports ! 
Teaching them a thousand new games , and playing all manner of antics ; but perhaps none of his powers surprised them more , than the extraordinary facility and freedom with which he had acquired , and used all their names . 
The casement of Vivian 's chamber opened full on the foaming cataract . 
As Vivian was musing over the last harassing months of his burthensome existence , he could not help feeling that there was only one person in the world on whom his memory could dwell with solace and satisfaction ; and this person was Lady Madeleine Trevor ! 
It was true that with her he had passed some most agonizing hours ; but he could not forget the angelic resignation with which her own affliction had been borne , and the soothing converse by which his had been alleviated . 
This train of thought was pursued till his aching mind sunk into indefiniteness . 
He sat , for some little time , almost unconscious of existence , till the crying of a child , waked by its father 's return , brought him back to the present scene . 
Anticipating that the day would be very oppressive , Vivian and Essper were on their horses ' backs at an early hour . 
said he to his horse ; for Vivian did not encourage conversation . 
Vivian had intended to stop and breakfast , after riding about ten miles ; but he had not proceeded half that way , when , from the extreme sultriness of the morning , he found it impossible to advance without refreshment . 
Max , also , to his rider 's surprise , was much distressed ; and , on turning round to his servant , Vivian found Essper 's hack panting and puffing , and breaking out , as if , instead of commencing their day 's work , they were near reaching their point of destination . 
Vivian dismounted , and stretching out his legs , leant back against the trunk of a tree ; and Essper , having fastened Max and his own horse to some branches , proceeded to display his stores . 
Vivian was silent , thoughtful , and scarcely tasted any thing : Essper George , on the contrary , was in unusual and even troublesome spirits ; and had not his appetite necessarily produced a few pauses in his almost perpetual rattle , the patience of his master would have been fairly worn out . 
At length Essper had devoured the whole supply ; and as Vivian not only did not encourage his remarks , but even in a peremptory manner had desired his silence , he was fain to amuse himself by trying to catch in his mouth a large brilliant fly , which every instant was dancing before him . 
Two individuals , more singularly contrasting in their appearance than the master and the servant , could scarcely be conceived ; and Vivian lying with his back against a tree , with his legs stretched out , his arms folded , and his eyes fixed on the ground ; and Essper , though seated , in perpetual motion , and shifting his posture with feverish restlessness -- now looking over his shoulder for the fly , then making an unsuccessful bite at it , and then wearied with his frequent failures , amusing himself with acting Punch with his thumbs -- altogether presented two figures , which might have been considered as not inapt personifications of the rival systems of Idealism and Materialism . 
At length Essper became silent for the sake of variety ; and imagining from his master 's example , that there must be some sweets in meditation hitherto undiscovered by him , he imitated Vivian 's posture ! 
So perverse is human nature , that the moment Vivian was aware that Essper was perfectly silent , he began to feel an inclination to converse with him . 
said Vivian laughing , `` considering that you have taken your degree so lately , you wear the Doctor 's cap with authority ! 
`` You must have seen a great deal in your life , Master Essper , '' said Vivian , who was amused by his servant 's quaint humour . 
asked Vivian . 
`` Come , Essper , '' said Vivian , who was rather interested by the conversation ; Essper having , until this morning , skilfully avoided any discourse upon the subject of his birth or family , adroitly turning the conversation whenever it chanced to approach these subjects , and silencing enquiries , if commenced , by some ludicrous and evidently fictitious answer . 
`` Come , Essper , '' said Vivian , `` I feel by no means in the humour to quit this shady retreat . 
`` When I first remember myself , '' he continued , `` I was playing with some other gipseyboys , in the midst of a forest . 
screamed Essper , seizing Vivian by the shoulder , `` what is coming ! 
said Vivian , very agitated . 
Vivian turned , and beheld his spirited horse raised on his hind legs , and dashing his fore feet against the trunk of the tree to which they had tied him . 
Covered with foam , he stood panting , while Vivian patted and encouraged him . 
Essper 's less spirited beast , had , from the first , crouched upon the earth , covered with sweat , his limbs quivering , and his tongue hanging out . 
said Vivian , mounting . 
Scarcely had Vivian spoken , when greater darkness enveloped the trembling Earth . 
With wonderful presence of mind , Vivian succeeded in hood-winking Max , who was still furious : the other horse appeared nearly exhausted . 
said Vivian . 
The red and lurid Sun was visible , but his light and heat were quenched in the still impending waters . 
said Vivian , `` this is our only chance ; five minutes good speed will take us to the village . '' 
Encouraged by his master 's example , Essper , once more got upon his horse ; and the panting animals , relieved by the eessation of the hurricane , carried them at a fair pace towards the village , considering that their road was now impeded by the overflowing of the lake . 
Vivian with starting eyes beheld the whole washed away ; instinct gave him energy to throw himself on the back of his horse , -- a breath -- and he had leaped up the nearest hill ! 
thought Vivian . 
Vivian 's horse , with a maddened snort , dashed down the hill ; his master , senseless , clung to his neck ; the frantic animal was past all government -- he stood upright in the air -- flung his rider -- and fell dead ! 
Here leave we Vivian ! 
It was my wish to have detailed , in the present portion of this work , the singular adventures which befel him in one of the most delightful of modern cities -- light-hearted Vienna ! 
But his history has expanded under my pen , and I fear that I have , even now , too much presumed upon an attention which , probably , I am not entitled to command . 
