Then the former simply ejaculated , with a strong respiration -- `` Jacopo ! '' 
Jacopo ! 
`` Jacopo ! '' 
Jacopo , of that family , is a youth of some five-and-twenty , of an active frame and melancholy visage , and of less vivacity of temperament , than is wont , at his years . '' 
And what is your pleasure with this accursed Jacopo ? '' 
Within that arch of the Doge 's palace , which leads to the canal of San Marco , beneath the Bridge of Sighs , thou wilt find Jacopo . 
But there is not a water-seller in the streets of Venice , nor a mariner on her canals , who does not wish this Jacopo anywhere but in the bosom of Abraham . 
`` A tumbler shall not have time to turn round before the answer of Jacopo shall be here . '' 
demanded Jacopo , when the gaze of each had continued beyond the term of accidental glances . 
I have not the honor of your friendship , Signor Jacopo ; but one may have affairs even with a stranger . 
`` I know not whether it is his pleasure , or that of another , which this paper contains , but such as it is , Signor Jacopo , my duty commands me to deliver it to thee . '' 
`` I bid thee read to me aloud the name the paper bears , '' said Jacopo , sternly . 
`` Reflect a single moment on the consequences , Signor Jacopo , before you come to a determination so hasty . '' 
`` I wonder , Signor Jacopo , that a man of your sagacity has not remembered that a packet to be delivered to himself , should bear his own name . '' 
When the latter instrument of disguise was thrown upon an arm , and the visor was removed , the form and face of the dreaded Jacopo became visible . 
`` Thou art quick of sight , Jacopo ! '' 
`` I did not inquire into thy knowledge of his infancy and origin , but of his present state ; '' returned the Signor Gradenigo , turning away to conceal his countenance from the glowing eye of Jacopo -- `` Has he been named to thee by any in authority ? '' 
`` Thou knowest , Jacopo , the severity of our laws in matters that concern the public moneys ? '' 
I love the man , Jacopo , for it is usual to regard , with some partiality , those who have drawn nourishment from the same breast with ourselves . '' 
`` Thou art brief in thy speech to-night , Jacopo ! 
Bethink thee , Jacopo , 't is but a se ` nnight since the claim was preferred to the senate 's equity ! '' 
`` Nor the justice , I trust also , good Jacopo . 
`` Dost thou think thus , Jacopo ? 
Few states would thus render a judgment against itself , Jacopo ! '' 
`` One who did not know thee , Jacopo , would imagine thee in the interest of the emperor ! 
`` Thou likest not the Hebrew , Jacopo ; but he is of good service in the republic 's straits . 
But observing that the repose , for which the features of Jacopo were so remarkable , again presided over his pallid face , he continued , as if there had been no interruption ; `` I repeat , the bounty and clemency of the state will not be forgotten . 
Of these facts I have taken much pains to assure thee , Jacopo . 
The latter did not speak again , though he hurried Jacopo from his presence , by an impatient movement of the hand . 
`` Jacopo ! '' 
He is a senator , Jacopo ; and he thinks not of suffering he does not feel . '' 
Before thy birth , Jacopo , I went against the infidel , and my blood was shed , like water , for the state . 
I am old , Jacopo , and poor ; my days are past in toil , on the Lagunes , and my nights in gaining strength to meet the labor of the morrow ; but it hath grieved me to hear that the son of one I much loved , and with whom I have so often shared good and evil , fair and foul , hath taken to a life like that which men say is thine . 
`` Thou hast suffered poverty to tempt thee into grievous sin , Jacopo ; but it is never too late to call on the saints for aid , and to lay aside the stiletto ! 
demanded Jacopo , in a low , struggling voice . 
Thou art used to deal with the patricians , Jacopo ; would there be possibility for one , clad in this dress , and with a face blackened by the sun , to come to speak with the doge ? '' 
I think , '' added Jacopo , speaking so low as to be scarcely audible , `` he would listen even to me . '' 
This is a hard bed , Jacopo , '' continued the fisherman , seating himself at the foot of the column of St. Theodore , `` but I have slept on colder and as hard , when there was less reason to do it -- a happy night . '' 
Jacopo cast a glance around , and noting the hour and the situation of the place , he proceeded to the edge of the quay . 
`` Thou art late , '' said the mariner of Calabria , as Jacopo stepped upon the low deck of the Bella Sorrentina . 
Now , here is the miscreant Jacopo . 
This Jacopo is one that should not go at large in an honest city , and yet is he seen pacing the square with as much ease as a noble in the Broglio ! '' 
Truly , there is some wrong done this ` Jacopo , who is , haply , a man slandered . '' 
That Jacopo hath an eye and a scowl that would betray him , were he chosen to the chair of St. Peter ! 
The waterman , reading in every face around him the necessity of obedience , slowly withdrew the means of concealment , and discovered the pallid countenance and glittering eyes of Jacopo . 
Jacopo bowed low , and withdrew . 
`` I have seen the hour , Jacopo , when even thy young arm would have tired , in such a strife between us . 
Thou never sawest the comely lad , good Jacopo ? '' 
The place where they stood was a little apart from the thoroughfare of the quays , and though there was a brilliant moon , the circumstance of two men , in their garbs , being there , was not likely to attract observation ; but Jacopo did not appear to be satisfied with this security from remark . 
`` And is there need of what thou hast done , Jacopo ? 
I say it again , and I say it with truth and gratitude , that I owe thee many thanks , though the end is defeated , and the boy is still a prisoner in the floating-school of wickedness -- but thou hast a name , Jacopo , that I could wish did not belong to thee . 
`` I would not willingly say -- '' `` No matter , '' interrupted Jacopo , in a hollow voice . 
Jacopo took the first entrance into the court of the doge 's palace . 
When within the dimmer and broken light of the court , Jacopo paused , evidently to scan the persons of those it contained . 
Jacopo motioned to Antonio to stand fast , while he drew nearer to the halberdier and whispered . 
Full , therefore , of the expectation of being ushered into the presence of the doge himself , and of having his child restored to his arms , the old man stepped lightly along the gloomy gallery , and darting through an entrance , at the heels of Jacopo , he found himself at the foot of another flight of massive steps . 
`` I doubt , Jacopo , after all , if I get from them the freedom of the boy . '' 
`` I will go back to the Lagunes , good Jacopo , for this tongue of mine hath ever moved at the bidding of the heart . 
When he perceived his real situation , instead of entering into useless remonstrance , or in any manner betraying alarm , he again turned to Jacopo with an air of patience and resignation . 
answered Jacopo , who had manifested no emotion during the abortive attempt of the other to retire . 
The halberdiers maintained their rigid attitudes , within the shadow of the wall , looking like two insensible statues , in the attire and armor of the age , while Jacopo and his companion occupied the centre of the room , with scarcely more of the appearance of consciousness and animation . 
While conjectures on the probable result of the expected interview were passing through his mind , an inner door opened , and an attendant signed for Jacopo to advance . 
Jacopo regarded the scene like one accustomed to its effect , though with evident reverence and awe ; but the impression on Antonio was too manifest to be lost . 
`` Thou hearest , Jacopo , '' said one of the Three . 
Jacopo had spoken with habitual reverence , but with the grave composure that appeared to enter deeply into the composition of his character . 
`` Hadst thou aught to do with this , also Jacopo ? '' 
said the old man , with generous warmth , disregarding the stern rebuke which gleamed in the eye of Jacopo . 
`` It was not decent , illustrious senators , to listen to such disrespect in so noble a presence , '' Jacopo answered , bending reverently as he spoke . 
`` There is not a chapel in Venice , Jacopo , in which a sinner may so well lay bare his soul as in this . 
`` I see the image of my Savior , Jacopo , in those bright stars , that moon , the blue heavens , the misty bank of mountain , the waters on which we float , ay , even in my own sinking form , as in all which has come from his wisdom and power . 
`` And these are thy gifts , Jacopo ? '' 
`` Take them away , Jacopo , if thou lovest me . 
`` I have said it , Jacopo , '' he added , at length , `` and tongue of mine shall not belie the thought of my heart . 
`` Jacopo , '' continued the anxious fisherman , `` do not mistake me . 
`` 'T is common for us of the Lagunes to go to a supperless bed : take away the basket , good Jacopo , and let us speak of other things . '' 
`` Hast thou come thus far for naught else , good Jacopo ? '' 
The question appeared to restore Jacopo to a recollection of his errand . 
Thou art used to the manners of these masked nobles , Jacopo ; dost thou think them likely to hearken to reason ? 
`` Thy words are strong , Jacopo -- I would not do injustice even to those who have done me this wrong . 
`` Jacopo , Providence itself hath made a difference in men . 
exclaimed Jacopo , rising and stepping into his own boat , which he cast loose from that of his companion , when he stood in evident doubt as to his future proceedings . 
`` Poor Jacopo ! 
That one like Jacopo should live by striking the assassin 's blow ! '' 
Jacopo , with a readiness that necessity and long practice rendered nearly instinctive , had taken a direction which blended his wake in a line with one of those bright streaks that the moon drew on the water , and which , by dazzling the eye , effectually concealed the objects within its width . 
`` Ay , let them come here , '' he said ; `` it will give Jacopo more time . 
Antonio witnessed this movement in silent curiosity ; but when he saw the gondoliers of the state lying on their oars , he glanced his eye again furtively in the direction of Jacopo , saw that all was safe , and faced his companion with confidence . 
Jacopo had not ceased to watch the interview , with the utmost intentness of his faculties . 
`` Jacopo ! 
-- Jacopo ! '' 
`` Hither , Jacopo -- thou steerest wide ! '' 
`` Quickly , good Jacopo , -- I fail ! '' 
`` Jacopo -- hither -- dear Jacopo ! '' 
`` Jacopo -- the boy ! 
Jacopo compressed the handle of his oar with fingers of iron , and his own breathing caused him to start . 
`` Jacopo ! '' 
`` Signore -- Jacopo . '' 
`` Thou speakest true , Jacopo ; '' returned the noble , suffering the point of his rapier to fall from before the breast of the Bravo , though he still hesitated to withdraw the point . 
demanded Jacopo , pointing to the graves at his feet . 
`` Thou hast another reason , Jacopo ? '' 
`` I understand thee , Jacopo ; thou art , at length , proscribed . 
Jacopo regarded the noble , for an instant , with an expression so ambiguous , as to cause the latter insensibly to raise the point of his rapier , but when he answered , it was with his ordinary quiet . 
Though the rapier was at the very throat of Jacopo , he did not flinch . 
`` And I had the weakness to believe thee , Jacopo , for thou hast a character so strangely compounded of good and evil , and bearest so fair a name for observance of thy faith , that the seeming frankness of the answer lulled me to security . 
Jacopo manifested interest , but , as he moved slowly on , accompanied by the vigilant and zealous noble , he smiled coldly , like one who had pity for the other 's credulity . 
-- Thou answerest not , Jacopo ? '' 
asked Jacopo , looking up like one who admired at another 's simplicity . 
`` And thou servest them , Jacopo ? '' 
`` Poor Jacopo ! '' 
Still it was not usual for nobles like Don Camillo to hold inter-course , beyond that which the required service exacted , with men of Jacopo 's east ; but the language and manner of the Bravo so strongly attracted the curiosity , and even the sympathy of his companion , that the latter unconsciously sheathed his rapier and drew nearer . 
`` Thy penitence and regrets , Jacopo , may lead thee yet nearer to virtue , '' he said , `` than mere abandonment of the senate 's service . 
`` Speak , Jacopo ; even I will hear thee , if thou would ` st remove the mountain from thy breast . '' 
`` Say on , Jacopo . '' 
`` I would thou wert at the confessional , poor Jacopo ! '' 
`` Thy case is piteous , Jacopo ! 
`` But he will return , poor Jacopo . '' 
Jacopo seemed choked . 
Jacopo looked up with doubt expressed on his features . 
`` Jacopo , I will hear thee -- I will hear thee , poor Jacopo ! '' 
A wave from the hand of the Bravo silenced him , and Jacopo , struggling with himself for a moment , spoke . 
Jacopo made an effort to command himself , when he commenced his tale . 
During the time Jacopo was speaking , he and his wondering auditor had passed the limits of the despised cemetery ; and as the voice of the former ceased , they stood on the outer beach of the Lido . 
`` I doubt you not , Jacopo -- poor Jacopo ! 
`` Reproach not thyself beyond reason , Jacopo , for the happiest and most fortunate of us all are not above the power of temptation . 
`` Thou sayest true , Jacopo : the truth is never in greater danger , than when whole communities lend themselves to the vicious deception of seemliness , and without truth there is no virtue . 
Jacopo -- poor Jacopo ! 
Though Don Camillo soliloquized , rather than addressed his companion , it was evident , by the train of his thoughts , that the narrative of Jacopo had awakened disagreeable reflections , on the manner in which he had pushed his own claims , with the senate . 
Jacopo uttered a few words of a general nature , but such as had a tendency to quiet the uneasiness of his companion ; after which , with a readiness that proved him qualified for the many delicate missions with which he had been charged , he ingeniously turned the discourse to the recent abduction of Donna Violetta , with the offer of rendering his new employer all the services in his power to regain his bride . 
`` That thou mayest know all thou hast undertaken , '' rejoined Don Camillo , `` listen , Jacopo , and I will conceal nothing from thy shrewdness . '' 
At the first sound of the latter 's voice , Jacopo , who had little suspected the fact from a name which was so common , recognized the artful daughter of the wine-seller . 
Thou hast heard of Jacopo ? '' 
-- All mean the same when they say Jacopo . '' 
But they say Jacopo was there , standing eye to eye with the doge , and scaring the senators as if he had been an uncalled spectre from the vaults of their fathers . 
Thou heard ` st the manner in which she spoke of the wretched bravo , Jacopo , and of this late murder ? '' 
Jacopo spoke hoarsely , but he was too long accustomed to disguise , to permit the weakness to escape , when he knew how much it would pain the sensitive and faithful being , who had yielded her affections to him , with a singleness and devotion which arose nearly as much from her manner of life , as from natural ingenuousness . 
As the reader has probably anticipated , already , that Jacopo was in the prison on an errand connected with some captive , this short explanation will enable him to understand the secret allusion of his companion . 
Jacopo bowed his head to conceal the anguish occasioned by this question , which he now heard for the hundredth time . 
Jacopo , who had arisen under his mental torture , obeyed , and bowed his head in reverence to receive the paternal benediction . 
When the silent but solemn ceremony was ended , each made the customary sign of the cross , and Jacopo kissed the wrinkled hand of the captive . 
Jacopo did not answer , for he knew that his father named the period only that he himself had been permitted to see him . 
Still Jacopo was silent , for the doge , of whom the other spoke , had long been dead . 
`` Jacopo ! '' 
Jacopo then proceeded to soothe the mind of the prisoner , and he gradually led his thoughts to other subjects . 
Neither Gelsomina nor Jacopo spoke , as they returned by the intricate passages through which they had ascended to the attic , until they were again on the Bridge of Sighs . 
she asked , lingering on the arch . 
`` He called thee , Jacopo ! '' 
When Jacopo issued from the prison on the quay , he mingled with the stream of human beings that was setting towards the squares , protected from observation by the privileged mask . 
Among these Jacopo sought his own gondola , which he extricated from the floating mass , and urged into the stream . 
`` ` Twill not be so weighty in bulk as in value , '' carelessly answered Jacopo , shoving his gondola from the side of the felucca . 
When Jacopo parted from Don Camillo , it was with an understanding that he should adopt all the means that his native sagacity , or his experience might suggest , to ascertain in what manner the council intended to dispose of the person of Donna Violetta . 
Jacopo had often been its instrument in negotiating with the mariner , who , as has been so plainly intimated , had frequently been engaged in carrying into effect its secret , and perhaps justifiable measures of police ; but in no instance had it ever been found necessary to interpose a second agent between the commencement and the consummation of its bargains , except in this . 
It was under this disadvantage , therefore , that Jacopo entered on the discharge of his new and important duties . 
That cunning , as has just been observed , is apt to overreach itself , has passed into a proverb ; and the case of Jacopo and his employers was one in point to prove its truth . 
Jacopo had no sooner touched the quay and secured his boat , than he hastened again to the Broglio . 
It would seem that Jacopo had his instructions , for no sooner did he make sure that Don Camillo had retired , than he threaded the throng with the air of a man whose course was decided . 
Jacopo was not accustomed , unnecessarily , to trust his voice in the square of St. Mark , and at that hour . 
He appeared to examine the person , stature , and dress of Jacopo , from beneath his mask , with singular caution , closing the whole with a sign that meant recognition . 
Jacopo returned his dumb show , but maintained a rigid silence . 
Though Jacopo started slightly , the movement was so natural for a disappointed lover , that it rather aided than endangered his disguise . 
demanded Jacopo , so quickly as to do credit to his assumed character . 
Jacopo waved his hand in adieu , and pursued his walk up the piazza . 
`` What have we here , Jacopo ? '' 
The explanation was made by a hundred voices , accompanied by oaths so bitter , and denunciations so deep , that had not Don Camillo been prepared by the tale of Jacopo , he would have found great difficulty in understanding what he heard . 
returned Jacopo , not attempting to conceal the derision of his tones . 
Don Camillo profited by her evident terror to press his questions , for the hour no longer admitted of trifling . 
`` They say that Jacopo , the Bravo -- he who once held the best oar in the canals -- was of the party ! 
Was it not said that Jacopo , the Bravo , was his competitor ? '' 
`` Eccellenza , Jacopo deals in the stiletto ! '' 
`` Jacopo ! 
-- Jacopo ! '' 
hoarsely repeated voice after voice in the crowd -- `` Jacopo has done this ! 
The keeper 's daughter led the way into the little room , in which she was accustomed to converse with Jacopo . 
Jacopo listened so intently that his oar dragged in the water . 
`` We will go up and speak to the padrone , '' whispered Jacopo . 
Jacopo lifted Annina , as he spoke , on the deck of the Bella Sorrentina , in a manner between gallantry and force , and leaped after her . 
Jacopo awaited at the water-gate . 
demanded Jacopo , on reaching the deck of the Bella Sorrentina again . 
While the Calabrian complied , Jacopo assisted the females to come up out of the gondola . 
`` Thou hast noble ladies in thy passengers , '' said Jacopo to the padrone , when the latter was released from the active duties of getting his vessel in motion ; `` and though policy requires that they should quit the city for a time , thou wilt gain favor by consulting their pleasures . '' 
The gondola of Jacopo never flew faster , than he now urged it towards the land . 
Jacopo , as has been seen in an earlier chapter , had a practice of walking near the columns of granite in the first hours of the night . 
It has been seen that Jacopo could not read , for that was an age when men of his class were studiously kept in ignorance . 
`` I am called away , and can not meet thee , Jacopo ! '' 
At the name of Jacopo , the tradesman dropped the paper and fled . 
asked Jacopo , in an under tone . 
`` Come hither , Jacopo , and thou shalt know more . 
Jacopo forced his boat from among the crowd at the quay , and having entered the open space , between the tiers , he lay on his oar , well knowing that he was watched , and that he would soon be followed . 
`` To the Lido , '' said a voice , which Jacopo knew to be that of his new employer . 
Harkee , Jacopo , a hundred for thy blow -- a second for insurance of its depth -- a third , if the body shall be buried in the Orfano , so that the water will never give back the secret . '' 
Dost thou accept the terms , Jacopo ? '' 
`` Thou art said to carry a sure stiletto , honest Jacopo , '' he whispered . 
Thou sayest truth , mindful Jacopo ; the gold shall be forthcoming , in any event -- always provided that the affair is so managed as to leave my young friend , a successful adventurer with the heiress . '' 
Jacopo made an impatient gesture , for at that moment he saw a gondolier pulling rapidly towards a private part of the Lido . 
The steps of Jacopo were rapid , as he moved towards those proscribed graves , among which he had made his confession to the very man he was now sent to slay . 
`` Jacopo ! 
They were both in the gondola of Jacopo , and on their way to one of the passages through the Lido , which conducts to the gulf , before the Bravo commenced his explanation . 
Jacopo permitted his gondola to be towed a league to sea , before he prepared to reenter it . 
`` Distrust us not -- but thou , my excellent Jacopo -- what wilt thou become , in their hands ? '' 
`` And none will be more welcome , within its secure walls ; I have much fear for thee , Jacopo ! '' 
`` Thou speakest as if we were to meet no more , worthy Jacopo ! '' 
The Neapolitan ran to the taffrail , and the last he saw of Jacopo , the Bravo was rowing leisurely back towards that scene of violence and deception , from which he himself was so glad to have escaped . 
Jacopo was again in the attic of the doge 's palace , accompanied by the gentle Gelsomina . 
exclaimed Jacopo , when his understanding eye had run over the near and distant view -- `` they are already far down the coast , and with a wind like this they can not fail to reach their haven , in a few hours . 
The latter did not appear to observe their entrance , and Jacopo was obliged to announce himself . 
answered Jacopo sternly ; then turning away his face , in bitterness of heart , though without permitting the words to be audible , he cursed them . 
Jacopo made no answer , for , unlettered as he was , and curtailed of that knowledge which should be , and is , bestowed on all , by every paternal government , the natural strength of his mind had enabled him to understand , that a system , which on its face professed to be founded on the superior acquirements of a privileged few , would be the least likely to admit the fallacy of its theories , by confessing it could err . 
Jacopo groaned , but he rose to comply . 
`` They think of nothing but their power , '' murmured Jacopo -- `` that which is wrongfully obtained , must be maintained by merciless injustice -- but why should we speak of this , father ; hast thou all thy body needs ? '' 
The eye of Jacopo gleamed with a wildness , scarcely less frightful than the ghastly look of the old man , his chest heaved , his fingers were clenched , and his breathing was audible . 
The look of the prisoner changed from one to the other , and he made an effort to rise , but debility caused him to fall backward , and not till then , did Jacopo perceive the impracticability , on many accounts , of what , in a moment of excitement , he had proposed . 
The hard breathing of Jacopo gradually subsided , and the expression of his face changed to its customary , settled , and collected look . 
The old man folded his hands above the head of Jacopo , and murmured a prayer . 
Jacopo appeared unwilling to quit the vicinity of the cell . 
After a little delay , however , they descended to the apartments below , and as Jacopo desired to quit the palace , without re-entering the prisons , Gelsomina prepared to let him out by the principal corridor . 
Jacopo followed his mild conductor into one of the neglected closets of the second floor , where , in truth , he was glad to catch a glimpse of the state of things in the piazza , before he left the palace . 
Jacopo laughed ; but to the ears of his startled companion the sounds were unnatural . 
This Jacopo is a monster , detested by all , and his bloody deeds have too long been a reproach to Venice . 
`` Thereby giving this redoubtable Jacopo timely notice to secrete himself ! 
Jacopo gazed at her with pity , for well did he understand how little she knew of the real nature and wily policy of the state . 
Jacopo made a gesture for her to lead the way , and followed . 
`` I see it all , '' answered Jacopo , `` we are prisoners on the fatal bridge . '' 
Gelsomina shrieked , but Jacopo moved not limb or muscle , while he was fettered and chained . 
Gelsomina would have disbelieved her ears , but for the anguished expression of Jacopo 's eye . 
The horrible truth burst upon her mind , and she fell lifeless . 
-- `` The body of the old fisherman must be laid quietly in the earth , with as little risk of future tumult , as may be -- and we have this notorious Jacopo to dispose of . '' 
They say Jacopo is revengeful , and that shame and anger at his defeat in the late regatta by one old as this , was the reason . '' 
I have seen the time when Jacopo would sooner die , than lose a race ; but that was before he carried a stiletto . 
`` Would not Jacopo have used the stiletto ? '' 
As Jacopo had often been before the council , though not as a prisoner , he betrayed neither surprise nor alarm at the black aspect of all his eye beheld . 
`` Thy mother is -- '' `` Dead ; '' said Jacopo , perceiving the other paused to examine his notes . 
`` Thou art accused , Jacopo , of having laid aside the oar for the stiletto ? '' 
Jacopo bent his head , but without speaking . 
Jacopo shuddered , signifying his assent merely by a sign . 
`` Dost thou know , Jacopo , that thou art accused of being his murderer ? '' 
`` And thou wished it , Jacopo ? '' 
Jacopo smiled , but more in derision than with any other feeling . 
said Jacopo , advancing earnestly towards the table , as if he would seize the moment to urge what he was about to say ; -- `` Mercy ! 
Jacopo looked his gratitude , but fearful that the others might still interfere to prevent his wish , he hurried from the room . 
On reaching the attic , Jacopo stopped , and turned to his conductors . 
With a cautious tread , Jacopo advanced , and when the door was opened he entered the room alone , for none there had sufficient interest in an interview between a common Bravo and his father , to endure the glowing warmth of the place , the while . 
Notwithstanding his assumed firmness , Jacopo hesitated , when he found himself so suddenly introduced to the silent misery of the forlorn captive . 
said Jacopo , with gentleness . 
`` Jacopo , -- I do not understand thee ! '' 
Jacopo heard him murmuring a prayer , and he knelt by the side of his pallet . 
`` Why hast thou not told me this before , Jacopo ? '' 
-- thou wilt be alone -- give me thy hand , -- poor Jacopo ! '' 
`` Jacopo , '' continued the captive , whose mind still sustained the body , `` I have prayed thrice within the hour -- once for my own soul -- once for the peace of thy mother -- lastly , for thee ! '' 
When thou wert a child , Jacopo -- tenderness for thee -- tempted me to acts of weakness , -- I trembled lest thy manhood might bring upon me -- pain and repentance . 
Kneel , Jacopo -- that I may ask of God -- once more , to remember thee . '' 
`` The blessing of a dying parent will sweeten thy life -- Jacopo , '' he added , after a pause , `` and give peace to thy last moments . '' 
`` Come forth Jacopo , '' said a keeper ; -- '' the Council seeks thee ! '' 
Jacopo felt the convulsive start of his father , but he did not answer . 
The glance which Jacopo obtained , by that passing light , was the last look he had of his father 's countenance . 
Jacopo felt a hand moving in the darkness , as if in quest of him . 
-- bless thee , Jacopo ! '' 
Jacopo hid his face in the blanket , and prayed . 
When the door of the cell opened , Jacopo appeared to the keepers , with a dignity of air that belongs only to character , and which was heightened by the scene , in which he had just been an actor . 
Jacopo hesitated . 
The smile which crossed the features of Jacopo was full of superiority ; it caused the conscious agent of the Secret Tribunal to look closely at his papers , like one who felt its power . 
`` This is important intelligence that thou hast communicated , Jacopo , '' continued he of the robe of flame . 
`` Both are true , Jacopo ; but what hast thou to say of the means ? '' 
Jacopo raised his form to such an altitude , as one might fancy to express the mounting of a liberated spirit . 
`` Thy father -- '' `` Is dead ; interrupted Jacopo , solemnly . 
`` Wilt thou consult thine own safety , Jacopo , and reveal all thou knowest of this affair of the Neapolitan ? '' 
Jacopo betrayed no weakness at the menace implied by the words of the senator ; but , after a moment 's reflection , he answered with as much frankness as he could have used at the confessional . 
`` Wilt thou impart the manner of this escape , Jacopo ? '' 
Jacopo then recounted , in simple , and undisguised terms , the entire means employed by Don Camillo , in effecting his escape ; his hopes , his disappointments , and his final success . 
Having no farther occasion for Jacopo , they summoned the keepers , and dismissed him to his cell . 
There are hints in our secret information , which tend to confirm the charge of Jacopo . 
`` How -- is Jacopo , then , an agent of the police ? '' 
`` Nay , we have this matter of Jacopo . '' 
Our business now leads us to the cell of Jacopo . 
As may have been anticipated , those who sat in judgment on Jacopo had their instructions , and the trial that he sustained was rather a concession to appearances than an homage to the laws . 
In this manner , as one after another contributed to the list , a little group , assembled on the quay , enumerated no less than five-and-twenty lives , which were believed to have been taken , by the hand of Jacopo , without including the vindictive and useless assassination of him whose funeral rites had just been celebrated . 
Jacopo received his visitor calmly , but with the deep respect of one who reverenced his holy office . 
thou art not to think that one of thy sins , Jacopo , can have hope without deep and heartfelt repentance ! '' 
`` Thou art not what I had supposed thee , Jacopo ! '' 
Jacopo groaned , when he beheld her form , and turning away , he leaned against the wall . 
`` 'T is the child of the principal keeper , '' said Jacopo , perceiving that she was unable to answer , `` one known to me , in my frequent adventures in this prison . '' 
`` Father , '' said Jacopo , with earnestness , `` I may deserve the word ; but the angels in Heaven are scarce purer than this weeping girl ! '' 
`` It is better , father , that she should believe me all that her fancy can imagine as monstrous , '' said Jacopo , in a thick voice : `` she will then learn to hate my memory . '' 
The effect of that glance on Jacopo was so powerful , that his sinewy frame shook , until the wondering Carmelite heard the clanking of his chains . 
The Carmelite sank upon the stool of the prisoner , and sat motionless , looking with an eye of horror , from the countenance of the unmoved Jacopo , to that of his trembling companion . 
said Jacopo , struggling to stretch forth his arms towards her , and yielding to a full heart , `` and of every other ! '' 
The Carmelite was seated on the stool , while Jacopo and Gelsomina knelt beside him . 
Assassinations were frequent , and called for the care of the police -- in short , father '' -- Jacopo hid his face in the dress of Gelsomina , -- `` I consented to let them circulate such tales as might draw the eye of the public on me . 
`` I understand thee , Jacopo . 
`` Poor Jacopo , thou art to be pitied ! 
`` If I have failed in convincing thee , Gelsomina , '' continued Jacopo , `` that I am not the wretch I seemed , would that I had been dumb ! '' 
`` And thou , daughter , hast been with Jacopo in the cell of his parent ? '' 
This duty done , he gave Gelsomina his hand , and there was a mild confidence in his countenance , as he took leave of Jacopo . 
Jacopo received this assurance like one accustomed to exist in extreme jeopardy . 
`` I would die to save Jacopo a pang ! '' 
When Jacopo came to be of an age to understand the misfortunes of his family , he wearied the senators with applications in his father 's behalf , until they commanded the door of the cell to be secretly opened to a child so pious . 
Then , as some relief to sufferings so little merited , Jacopo was admitted . '' 
The patricians were slow to be convinced , and they made terms with poor Jacopo , who agreed to undergo a hard service , that his father might breathe free air , before he died . '' 
But this I know , that for three weary years hath Jacopo been admitted to his father 's cell , and that those up above consented to the visits ; else would my father have denied them . 
I hope never to feel another pang , like that which chilled my heart , when they said , he I had known as the kind Carlo , was hunted in Venice as the abhorred Jacopo ! 
The color did not deepen on the cheek of Gelsomina , at this abrupt question , for the tie between her and Jacopo had become too sacred , for the ordinary weaknesses of her sex . 
`` And thou art still willing , knowing the man , to pledge thy vows to one like Jacopo ! '' 
By the sacred nature of my holy office , do I affirm that of this crime is Jacopo innocent ! 
The little care I had it in my power to show , first caught Jacopo 's eye , for his heart was then full of the duty of the child . 
Is not the God of Jacopo my God , and your God ? 
I would the secret members of the Three could have seen poor Jacopo , as I have seen him , coming from his toil , weary with labor , and heart-broken with delay , enter the winter or the summer cell -- chilling or scorching as the season might be -- and struggling to be cheerful , that the falsely accused might not feel a greater weight of misery . 
`` Except in convincing you , highness , that Jacopo is not the monster they would have him . 
Come , father ; we will leave the good and just doge to go to rest , as suits his years , and we will return to gladden the heart of Jacopo with our success , and thank the blessed Maria for her favor . '' 
Gelsomina willingly complied , for her heart was already in the cell of Jacopo , in the eagerness to communicate her success ; but the Carmelite lingered to cast a look behind , like one better acquainted with the effects of worldly policy , when connected with the interests of those who pervert governments to the advantage of the privileged . 
On reaching the block between the columns , the Sbirri fell off in files , waiting at a little distance , while Jacopo was left before the engines of death , attended by his ghostly counsellor , the Carmelite . 
Jacopo had tranquilly placed his person before the block . 
Jacopo crossed himself , and bowed his head , in reverence . 
`` Hast thou no hope , Jacopo ? '' 
-- Hast thou faith in thy Redeemer , Jacopo ? '' 
The Carmelite and Jacopo kneeled , side by side , the latter bowing his head to the block , while the monk uttered a final appeal to the mercy of the Deity . 
Gelsomina seized the bonds of Jacopo , and endeavored , frantically , to release his arms . 
The struggle in the mind of Jacopo seemed over . 
`` Carlo , or Jacopo -- Jacopo , or Carlo -- it matters little . '' 
The ax glittered before her eyes , and the head of Jacopo rolled upon the stones , as if to meet her . 
