-- it 's a doing that our bairns ' bairns will ne'er hear the end o ' -- a rank and carnal innovation on the spirit o ' the Kirk o ' Scotland , '' replied the elder -- `` It 's to be after the fashion o ' some prelatic Babel in Lon ` on , and they hae christened it already by the papistical name o ' St Andrew -- a sore thing that , Mr Walkinshaw ; but the Lord has set his face against it , and the builders thereof are smitten as wi ' a confusion o ' tongues , in the lack o ' siller to fulfil their idolatrous intents -- Blessed be His name for evermore ! 
-- Mr Walkinshaw , am nae prophet , as ye will ken , but I can see that the day 's no far aff , when ministers of the gospel in Glasgow will be seen chambering and wantoning to the sound o ' the kist fu ' o ' whistles , wi ' the seven-headed beast routing its choruses at every o'ercome o ' the spring . '' 
The cloth was accordingly delivered to him , with strict injunctions to have it ready by Friday , and with all the requisite et ceteras to complete a coat , he left the shop greatly edified , as he told his wife , by the godly salutations of Mr Walkinshaw 's spirit ; `` wherein , '' as he said , `` there was a kithing of fruit meet for repentance ; a foretaste o ' things that pertain not to this life ; a receiving o ' the erls of righteousness and peace , which passeth all understanding , and endureth for evermore . '' 
`` I 'm blithe to hear ` t , '' was the worthy woman 's answer , '' for he 's an even down Nabal -- a perfect penure pig , that I ne'er could abide since he wauld na lend poor old Mrs Gorbals , the provost 's widow , that , they say , set him up in the world , the sma ' soom o ' five pounds , to help her wi ' the outfit o ' her oe , when he was gaun to Virginia , a clerk to Bailie Cross . '' 
`` I 'm thinking , Mr Walkinshaw , '' said Rob , the horse-couper , `` that ye would na be the waur of a spur , an it were only on the ae heel . '' 
`` Lordsake , Mr Walkinshaw ! '' 
One of them happened to be the identical Mr Kilfuddy of Braehill , who had lectured so learnedly about the Temple of Diana on the preceding Sunday in the Tron Church ; and he being acquainted with Claud , said , as he looked out and bade the driver to stop , -- `` Dear me , Mr Walkinshaw , but ye hae gotten an unco cowp . 
`` Girzy , '' said the Laird to his daughter , as they entered the dining-room , `` gae to thy bed and bring a cod for Mr Walkinshaw , for he 'll no can thole to sit down on our hard chairs . '' 
Towards the end , however , of the third year after the birth of Charles , Claud communicated to the Laird , that , by some unaccountable dispensation , Mrs Walkinshaw was again in the way to be a mother , adding , `` Noo , Laird , ye 'll hae your ain way o ` t ; '' and , accordingly , as soon as Walter , the second son , was born , and baptized , the lands of Plealands were entailed on him , on condition , as his grandfather intended , that he should assume the name of Hypel . 
For several years after the birth of Walter , no event of any consequence happened in the affairs of Claud . 
The Laird , his father-in-law , in the deed of entail which he executed of the Plealands , had reserved to himself a power of revocation , in the event of his wife dying before him , in the first instance , and of Walter and George , the two younger sons of Grippy , either dying under age , or refusing to take the name of Hypel , in the second . 
On examining the Laird 's papers after the funeral , Mr Keelevin , the father of the celebrated town-clerk of Gudetoun , the lawyer present on the occasion , discovered , in reading over the deed which had been executed by the deceased , in favour of Walter , the second son of Claud , that it was , in some essential points , imperfect as a deed of entail , though in other respects valid as a testamentary conveyance . 
The opinion of counsel , as in all similar cases , was in consequence forthwith taken ; and the suspicions of Mr Keelevin being confirmed , Walter was admitted as heir to the estate , but found under no legal obligation to assume his grandfather 's name , -- the very obligation which the old gentleman had been most solicitous to impose upon him . 
We were not then quite so well versed in the secrets of human nature as experience has since so mournfully taught us , and the words of Claud at the time sounded strangely and harshly in our ear , especially when he inquired , with a sharp , and as it were a greedy voice , whether it was practicable to get Walter to conjoin with him in a deed that would unite his inheritance of Plealands to the Grippy , and thereby make a property as broad and good as the ancestral estate of Kittlestonheugh ? 
`` Ye ken , Mr Omit , '' said he , `` how I was defrauded , as a bodie may say , of my patrimony , by my grandfather ; and now , since it has pleased Providence to put it in my power , by joining the heritage of Plealands and Grippy , to renew my ancestry , I would fain mak a settlement with Watty to that effek . '' 
Mr Omit , with all that calm and methodical manner which a long experience of those devices of the heart , to which lawyers in good practice , if at all men of observation , generally attain , replied , -- `` Nothing can be done in that way while Walter is under age . 
`` And I see , '' interfered the minister 's wife , `` that ye hae gotten a bombazeen o ' the first quality ; nae doubt ye had it likewise frae Mr Walkinshaw 's own shop , which is a great thing , Mrs Walkinshaw , for you to get . '' 
The composity of the minister and his wife were greatly tried , as Mrs Kilfuddy herself often afterwards said , by this `` outstrapolous intrusion ; '' but quiet was soon restored by Mrs Walkinshaw ordering in the bread and wine , of which Walter was allowed to partake . 
`` That 's a lang look , '' rejoined the minister a little slyly , for Walter 's defect of capacity was more obvious than his mother imagined ; but she did not perceive the point of Mr Kilfuddy 's sarcasm , her attention at the moment being drawn to the entrance of her husband , evidently troubled in thought , and still holding the papers in his hand as he took them away from Mr Omit 's desk . 
Nae doubt , Mr Walkinshaw , it maun hae been some sma ' disappointment to you , to find that your second son is made the heir , but it 's no an affliction past remedy , so ye should na let it fash you oure muckle . '' 
The minister , who did not very clearly understand this , said , `` A ' thing considered , Mr Walkinshaw , ye 'll just hae to let the law tak its course , and though ye canna hae the lairdship in ae lump , as ye aiblins expekit , it 's nevertheless in your ain family . '' 
`` I 'm , no contesting that , '' rejoined Claud , `` but I would fain hae the twa mailings in ae aught , for if that could be brought about , I would na doubt of making an excambio o ' the Plealands for the Divethill and Kittleston , the twa farms that wi ' the Grippy made up the heritage o ' my forefathers ; for Mr Auchincloss , the present propreeator , is frae the shire o ' Ayr , and I hae had an inklin that he would na be ill pleased to mak a swap , if there was only possibility in law to alloo ` t. '' `` I canna say , '' replied the Reverend Mr Kilfuddy , `` that I hae ony great knowledge o ' the laws o ' man ; I should , however , think it 's no impossible ; but still , Mr Walkinshaw , ye would hae to mak a reservation for behoof of your son Walter , as heir to his grandfather . 
`` Mr Walkinshaw , '' said he severely , `` I can see no point o ' comparison between the case o ' your twa sons and that o ' Jacob and Esau ; and what 's mair , the very jealousing that there may be sin in what ye wish to do , is a clear demonstration that it is vera sinful ; for , O man ! 
-- Mr Walkinshaw , Mr Walkinshaw , ye maun strive against this sin of the flesh , ye maun warsle wi ' the devil , and hit him weel on the hip till ye gar him loosen the grip that he has ta'en to draw you on to sic an awful sin . 
Towards him Claud cherished as much affection as the sterile sensibilities of his own bosom could entertain for any object ; but Mrs Walkinshaw , from some of those unaccountable antipathies with which nature occasionally perplexes philosophy , almost hated her first-born , and poured the full flow of her uncouth kindness on Walter , who , from the earliest dawnings of observation , gave the most indubitable and conclusive indications of being endowed with as little delicacy and sense as herself . 
`` In truth , Mr Walkinshaw , I hae cause , '' was the reply -- `` poor Charlie ! '' 
`` Ye 're a parent , Mr Walkinshaw , '' replied the old lady seriously , `` and I think ye hae a fatherly regard for Charlie ; but I 'll be plain wi ' you . 
-- The old lady continued , -- `` At the same time , Mr Walkinshaw , ye 're a reasonable man , and what I 'm come about is a matter that maun just be endured . 
`` There was some difference between the twa cases , '' said the Dowager of Plealands dryly to her daughter ; -- `` neither you nor Mr Walkinshaw were so young as Charlie and Miss Fatherlans -- that was something -- and may be there was a difference , too , in the character of the parties . 
Hows ` ever , Mr Walkinshaw , marriages are made in heaven ; and it 's no in the power and faculty of man to controvert the coming to pass o ' what is ordained to be . 
In a word , Mr Walkinshaw , it 's no reasonable to expek that young folk , so encouraged in their mutual affection as they were , can thole so lang as ye would wish . 
-- The old lady took no notice of these and other interjections of the same meaning , which her daughter continued to vent , but looking askance and steadily at Claud , who seemed for a minute deeply and moodily agitated , she said , -- `` Ye say nothing , Mr Walkinshaw . '' 
`` That will no be ill to do , Mr Walkinshaw , wi ' your helping hand . 
-- He 's your first born , and a better-hearted lad never lived . '' 
`` Very true , Mr Walkinshaw , '' said the gratified old lady , happy to find that the reconciliation was so easily effected ; and proud to be the messenger of such glad tidings to the young couple , she soon after returned to Glasgow . 
`` Eh , mither , mither , '' cried Walter , bolting into the room , -- `` what would you think , our Charlie 's grown a wife 's gudeman like my father . '' 
`` Out o ' my sight , ye ranting cuif , '' exclaimed Claud , in a rapture of rage , which so intimidated Walter that he fled in terror . 
Claud scowled at her with a look of the fiercest aversion , for at that moment the better feelings of his nature yearned towards Charles , and almost overcame the sordid avidity with which he had resolved to cut him off from his birthright , and to entail the estate of Grippy with the Plealands on Walter , -- an intention which , as we have before mentioned , he early formed , and had never abandoned , being merely deterred from carrying it into effect by a sense of shame , mingled with affection , and a slight reverence for natural justice ; all which , however , were loosened from their hold in his conscience , by the warrantry which the imprudence of the marriage seemed to give him in the eyes of the world , for doing what he had so long desired to do . 
Instead , however , of making her any reply , he walked out into the open air , and continued for about half an hour to traverse the green in front of the house , sometimes with quick short steps , at others with a slow and heavy pace . 
Gradually , however , his motion became more regular , and ultimately ended in a sedate and firm tread , which indicated that his mind was made up on the question , which he had been debating with himself . 
`` We 'll do our endeavour , Mr Walkinshaw ; hae ye made ony sort o ' scantling o ' what you would wish done ? '' 
`` But heavens preserve me , Mr Walkinshaw , are ye sensible of the ill ye would do to that fine lad , his auld brother , that 's now a married man , and in the way to get heirs ? 
`` Nobody , it 's true , Mr Walkinshaw , has ony right to meddle wi ' how ye dispone of your own , but I was thinking ye may be did na reflect that sic an entail as ye speak o ' would be rank injustice to poor Charlie , that I hae ay thought a most excellent lad . '' 
`` That should be the greater reason , Mr Walkinshaw , wi ' you to let your estate go in the natural way to Charlie . '' 
I want you to draw the settlement , as I was saying ; first , ye 'll entail it on Walter and his heirs-male , syne on Geordie and his heirs-male , and failing them , ye may gang back , to please yoursel , to the heirs-male o ' Charlie , and failing them , to Meg 's heirs-general . '' 
`` Mr Walkinshaw , '' said the honest writer , after a pause of about a minute , `` there 's no Christianity in this . '' 
`` I think , Mr Walkinshaw , my good and worthy friend , that you should reflect well on this matter , for it is a thing by ordinare to do . '' 
`` And it stands with nature surely , Mr Walkinshaw , that he should hae a bairn 's part o ' your gear . '' 
`` As in duty bound , Mr Walkinshaw , I maun do your will in this business , '' said Mr Keelevin ; `` but really I ken na when I hae been more troubled about the specialities of any settlement . 
`` Waes me , Mr Walkinshaw , that ye should cast up to me the sincerity with which I did but my duty to a client , However , as ye 're bent on this business . 
`` I 'll chapse that place , '' said Walter , who was sitting opposite to his father , putting , at the same time , unobserved into the book a bit of stick which he happened to be sillily gnawing . 
Claud heard what his wife suggested , but for about a minute made no answer : shutting the Bible , without noticing the mark which Walter had placed in it , he said , -- `` I 'm thinking ye 're no far wrang , gudewife . 
The servants accordingly retired ; and Walter reached across the table to lay hold of the big Bible , in order to read his chapter where he had inserted the stick ; but his father angrily struck him sharply over the fingers , saying , -- `` Hast t ` ou neither grace nor gumshion , that t ` ou daurs to tak awa the word o ' God frae before my very face ? 
Walter , rebuked by the chastisement , withdrew from the table ; and , taking a seat sulkily by the fireside , began to turn over the leaves of his pocket Bible , and from time to time he read mutteringly a verse here and there by the light of the grate . 
`` Surely -- it can never be your serious intent -- I would fain hope -- nay , really Mr Walkinshaw , ye maunna think o ` t. '' `` Hoot , toot , toot ; I thought ye had mair sense , Mr Keelevin . 
The lawyer looked first at the Leddy , and then at the Laird , and said , `` Mr Walkinshaw , I hae done you wrong in my thought . '' 
He conceived that he must surely be much richer than the world supposed ; and that , seeing the natural defects of his second son , Walter , how little he was superior to an idiot , and judging he could make no good use of ready money , but might , on the contrary , become the prey of knavery , he had , perhaps , determined , very wisely , to secure to him his future fortune by the entail proposed , meaning to indemnify Charles from his lying money . 
But even this admitted of something like a reasonable explanation ; for , by the will of the grandfather , in the event of Walter dying without male issue , George was entitled to succeed to the Plealands , as heir of entail ; the effect of all which , in the benevolent mind of honest Mr Keelevin , contributed not a little to rebuild the good opinion of his client , which had suffered such a shock from the harshness of his instructions , as to induce him to pay the visit which led to the rencounter described ; and in consequence he walked his horse beside the Laird and Leddy , as they continued to pick their steps along the shady side of the road . 
For he knew , from the character of Miss Betty Bodle 's father , that the entail of the Grippy , in favour of Walter , would be deemed by him a satisfactory equivalent for any intellectual defect . 
The disinheritance of Charles was thus , in some degree , palliated to his conscience as an act of family policy rather than of resentment ; in truth , resentment had perhaps very little to say in the feeling by which it was dictated ; -- for , as all he did and thought of in life was with a view to the restoration of the Walkinshaws of Kittlestonheugh , we might be justified , for the honour of human nature , to believe , that he actually contemplated the sacrifice which he was making of his first-born to the Moloch of ancestral pride , with reluctance , nay , even with sorrow . 
In the meantime , as he returned towards Grippy with his wife , thus discoursing on the subject of Miss Betty Bodle and Walter , Charles and Isabella were mutually felicitating themselves on the earnest which they had so unexpectedly received of what they deemed a thorough reconciliation . 
Poor Charles , however , was prevented from observing the change in his manner and countenance , by Walter appearing at the door in his Sunday clothes , followed by his mother , with his best hat in her hand , which she was smoothing at the same time with the tail of her apron . 
`` I redde ye , my bairn , '' said she to Walter , as she gave him the hat , `` to take care o ' thysel , for ye ken they 're an unco crew ay in the Trongate on Wednesday ; and mind what I hae been telling you , no to put your hand to pen and ink unless Mr Keelevin tells you it 's to be for your advantage ; for Charlie 's your father 's ain chevalier , and nae farther gane than the last Lord 's day , he gied him , as I telt you , a whole hundred pound for hansel to his tocherless matrimony . '' 
Charles , at this speech , reddened and walked back from the house , without speaking to his mother ; but he had not advanced many steps towards the gate , when she cried , -- `` Hey , Charlie ! 
He felt the reproof , and immediately turned and went back to make some apology , but she prevented him by saying , -- `` See that this is no a Jacob and Esau business , Charlie , and that ye dinna wrang poor Watty ; for he 's an easy good-natured lad , and will just do what either you or his father bids him . '' 
The two sons , seeing the pace at which their father was going forward , parted from their mother and followed him , Charles laughing and jeering at the beau which Walter had made of himself . 
During the journey the old man kept aloof from them , turning occasionally round to rebuke their mirth , for there was something in the freedom and gaiety of Charles 's laugh that reproached his spirit , and the folly of Walter was never so disagreeable to him before . 
`` Noo , Mr Walkinshaw , '' said he , when he had shut the door , `` I hope ye have well reflected on this step , for when it is done , there 's nae power in the law o ' Scotland to undo it . 
as sure 's death , Mr Walkinshaw , '' exclaimed the honest writer , with a warmth and simplicity rather obsolete among his professional brethren now-a-days , however much they may have been distinguished for those qualities in the innocent golden age ; `` Na ! 
as sure 's death , Mr Walkinshaw , this is mair than I hae the conscience to do ; the lads are parties to the transaction , by their reversionary interest , and it is but right and proper they should know what they are about . '' 
`` Weel , Mr Walkinshaw , '' replied the lawyer , `` ye 'll tak your own way o ` t , I see that ; but , as ye led me to believe , I hope an ' trust it 's in your power to make up to Charles the consequences of this very extraordinary entail ; and I hope ye 'll lose no time till ye hae done sae . '' 
Walter loudly complained of being so treated ; and said , that he expected a guinea , at the very least , for the trouble he had been put to ; for so he interpreted the advantage to which his mother had alluded . 
`` Weel , weel , '' said his father , `` ha 'd thy tongue , and t ` ou sall get a guinea ; but first sign this other paper , '' presenting to him the second deed ; by which , as possessor of the Plealands ' estate , he entailed it in the same manner , and to the same line of succession , as he had himself destined the Grippy . 
The assurance of the guinea was effectual ; Walter signed the deed , which was witnessed by Charles and the clerk ; and the disinheritance was thus made complete . 
Walter , however , appeared inclined to accept the invitation , and was moving off with Charles , when their father looked back , and chidingly commanded him to come along . 
At any other time , this little incident would have been unnoticed by Charles , who , believing the old man had made some liberal provision for him or for his wife , was struck with the harsh contrast of such behaviour to the paternal affection by which he thought him actuated ; and he paused , in consequence , thoughtfully looking after him as he walked towards the Cross , followed by Walter . 
Grippy had not proceeded above twenty or thirty paces when he stopped , and turning round , called to his son , who immediately obeyed the summons . 
`` Charlie , '' said he , `` I hope t ` ou 'll let nae daffing nor ploys about this marriage o'thine tak up thy attention frae the shop ; for business maun be minded ; and I 'm thinking t ` ou had as weel be making up a bit balance-sheet , that I may see how the counts stand between us . '' 
This touched an irksome recollection , and recalled to mind the observation which his father had made on the occasion of Fatherlans ' ruin , with respect to the hazards of taking into partnership a man with the prospect of a family . 
With these words , the old man and Walter again went on towards the Cross , leaving Charles standing perplexed , and unable to divine the source and motives of his father 's behaviour . 
It seemed altogether so unaccountable , that for a moment he thought of going back to Mr Keelevin to ask him concerning the settlements ; but a sense of propriety restrained him , and he thought it alike indelicate and dishonourable , to pry into an affair which was so evidently concealed from him . 
In the meantime , Walter and his father were walking homeward . 
The old man held no communion with his son ; but now and then he rebuked him for hallooing at birds in the hedges , or chasing butterflies , a sport so unbecoming his years . 
Walter was not so void of sense as to be incapable of comprehending the substance of this contrite exclamation ; and instantly recollecting his mother 's admonition , and having some idea , imperfect as it was , of the peril of parchments with seals on them , he began , with obstreporous sobs and wails , to weep and cry , because , as he said , `` My father and our Charlie had fastened on me the black bargain o ' a law plea to wrang me o ' auld daddy 's mailing . 
He looked round , and it was Walter , with his hat folded together in his hand . 
`` I 'll go hame , Watty -- I 'll go hame , '' was the only answer he made , in an accent of extreme sorrow , `` I 'll go hame ; I daur do nae mair this day , '' and he returned back with Walter to the main road , where , having again recovered his self-possession , he said , `` I 'm dafter than thee to gang on in this fool gait ; go , as I bade thee , hame and tell thy mother no to look for me to dinner , for I 'll aiblins bide wi ' Kilmarkeckle . '' 
In saying which , he turned briskly round , and , without ever looking behind , walked with an alert step , swinging his staff courageously , and never halted till he reached Kilmarkeckle-house , where he was met at the door by Mr Bodle himself , who , seeing him approaching up the avenue , came out to meet him . 
Such a woman , it may be supposed , could not but look with the most thorough contempt on Walter Walkinshaw ; and yet , from the accidental circumstance of being often his playmate in childhood , and making him , in the frolic of their juvenile amusements , her butt and toy , she had contracted something like an habitual affection for the creature ; in so much , that , when her father , after Claud 's visit , proposed Walter for her husband , she made no serious objection to the match ; on the contrary , she laughed , and amused herself with the idea of making him fetch and carry as whimsically as of old , and do her hests and biddings as implicitly as when they were children . 
`` Na , an ye had but seen and heard her , ye would just hae dee ` t , Mr Walkinshaw . 
`` The snuff that I hae here in this canister -- tak a pree o ` t , Mr Walkinshaw -- it was sent me in a present frae Mr Glassford , made out of the primest hogget in his last cargo -- what think ye o ` t ? 
`` That 's most extraordinary , Mr Walkinshaw ; for surely there is a likeness somewhere in every thing that brings another thing to mind ; and although as yet I 'll no point out to you the vera particularity in a hippopotamus by which this snuff gars me think o ' the beast , ye must , nevertheless , allow past a ' dispute , that there is a particularity . '' 
This , however , his father undertook to manage , and also that Walter should go in the evening to Kilmarkeckle , and in person make a tender of his heart and hand to the blooming , boisterous , and bouncing Miss Betty . 
Walter made no reply , but laughed , and chuckingly rubbed his hands , and then delightedly patted the sides of his thighs with them . 
Walter suddenly suspended his ecstasy ; and grasping his knees firmly , he bent forward , and , looking his father seriously in the face , said , -- `` But will she no thump me ? 
But these intervals of feeling and emotion were not of long duration ; his inflexible character , and the ardour with which his whole spirit was devoted to the attainment of one object , soon settled and silenced all doubt , contrition , and hesitation ; and considering , so far as Walter was concerned , the business decided , he summoned his wife to communicate to her the news . 
-- `` Girzy Hypel , '' said he as she entered the room , holding by the neck a chicken , which she was assisting the maids in the kitchen to pluck for dinner , and the feathers of which were sticking thickly on the blue worsted apron which she had put on to protect her old red quilted silk petticoat . 
After dinner , Walter , dressed and set off to the best advantage by the assistance of his mother , walked , accompanied by his father , to Kilmarkeckle ; and we should do him injustice if we did not state , that , whatever might be his intellectual deficiencies , undoubtedly in personal appearance , saving , perhaps , some little lack of mental light in his countenance , he was cast in a mould to find favour in any lady 's eye . 
Perhaps he did not carry himself quite as firmly as if he had been broke in by a serjeant of dragoons , and in his air and gait we shall not undertake to affirm that there was nothing lax nor slovenly , but still , upon the whole , he was , as his mother said , looking after him as he left the house , `` a braw bargain of manhood , get him wha would . '' 
After Kilmarkeckle had welcomed Grippy and Walter , he began to talk of the hippopotamus , by showing them the outlines of a figure which he intended to fill up with the snuff on the wall . 
Claud , however , cut him short , by proposing , in a whisper , that Miss Betty should be called in , and that she and Walter should be left together , while they took a walk to discuss the merits of the hippopotamus . 
This exhortation had , however , no immediate effect , for Walter , from the moment she made her appearance , looked awkward and shamefaced , swinging his hat between his legs , with his eyes fixed on the brazen head of the tongs , which were placed upright astradle in front of the grate ; but every now and then he peeped at her from the corner of his eye with a queer and luscious glance , which , while it amused , deterred her for some time from addressing him . 
The young lady was probably conciliated by the manner in which this was said ; for she approached towards him , and while still affecting to laugh , it was manifest even to Walter himself that she was not displeased by the alacrity with which he had come to the point . 
Emboldened by her freedom , he took her by the hand , looking , however , away from her , as if he was not aware of what he had done ; and in this situation they stood for the space of two or three minutes without speaking . 
`` Na , '' replied he , becoming almost gallant ; `` it 's your turn to speak noo . 
`` An I were sae , I would worry you , '' was his animated answer , while he turned round , and devoured her with kisses ; a liberty which she instantaneously resented , by vigorously pushing him from her , and driving him down into her father 's easy chair ; his arm in the fall rubbing off half a score of the old gentleman 's snuffy representatives . 
What more might have passed , as the lovers had now come to a perfect understanding with each other , it is needless to conjecture , as the return of the old gentlemen interrupted their conversation ; so that , not to consume the precious time of our readers with any unnecessary disquisition , we shall only say , that some objection being stated by Grippy to the first Monday as a day too early for the requisite settlements to be prepared , it was agreed that the booking should take place , as Walter had proposed , on the approaching Saturday , and that the banns should be published , once on the first Sunday , and twice on the next , and that the wedding should be held on the Tuesday following . 
When Charles and Isabella were informed that his brother and Betty Bodle were to be bookit on Saturday , that is , their names recorded , for the publication of the banns , in the books of the kirk-session , -- something like a gleam of light seemed to be thrown on the obscurity which invested the motives of the old man 's conduct . 
They were perfectly aware of Walter 's true character , and concluded , as all the world did at the time , that the match was entirely of his father 's contrivance ; and they expected , when Walter 's marriage settlement came to be divulged , that they would then learn what provision had been made for themselves . 
In the meantime , Charles made out the balancesheet , as he had been desired , and carried it in his pocket when he went on Saturday with his wife to dine at Grippy . 
The gratulations and welcomings being over , she gave a description of the preparations which had already commenced for Walter 's wedding . 
It happened that Isabella , dressed in her gayest apparel for this occasion , had brought in her hand , wrapt in paper , a pair of red Morocco shoes , which , at that period , were much worn among lairds ' daughters ; for the roads , being deep and sloughy , she had , according to the fashion of the age , walked in others of a coarser kind ; and Walter 's eye accidentally lighting on the shoes , he went up , without preface , to his sister-in-law , and , taking the parcel gently out of her hand , opened it , and contemplating the shoes , holding one in each hand at arm 's length , said , `` Bell Fatherlans , what will ye tak to sell thir bonny red cheeket shoon ? 
It would be an ill omen to give her a second-hand present , Mr Walter ; besides , I do n't think they would fit . '' 
This little incident had the effect of tuning the spirits of Charles and his wife into some degree of unison with the main business of the day ; and the whole party entered the house bantering and laughing with Walter . 
Walter was not , however , satisfied at hearing no allusion to him , and he said , -- `` And are ye no gaun to do any thing for me , father ? '' 
Walter was not , however , to be daunted ; setting up a cry , something between a wail and a howl , he brought his mother flying from the kitchen , where she was busy assisting the maids in preparing dinner -- to inquire what had befallen the bridegroom . 
Leddy Grippy having been , as she herself observed , `` cheated baith o ' bridal and infare by Charlie 's moonlight marriage , '' was resolved to have all made up to her , and every jovial and auspicious rite performed at Walter 's wedding . 
In the meantime , the chastised bridegroom , in running homeward , was met by his brothers and their companions , to whose merriment he contributed quite as much as he had subtracted from that of the ladies , by the sincerity with which he related what had happened , -- declaring , that he would rather stand in the kirk than tak Betty Bodle ; which determination Charles , in the heedlessness and mirth of the moment , so fortified and encouraged , that , before they had returned back to the punch-bowl , Walter was swearing that neither father nor mother would force him to marry such a dragoon . 
The old man seemed more disturbed than might have been expected from his knowledge of the pliancy of Walter 's disposition at hearing him in this humour , while the Leddy said , with all the solemnity suitable to her sense of the indignity which her favourite had suffered , -- `` Biting and scarting may be Scotch folks wooing ; but , if that 's the gait Betty Bodle means to use you , Watty , my dear , I would see her , and a ' the Kilmarkeckles that ever were cleckit , doon the water , or strung in a wooddie , before I would hae ony thing to say to ane come o ' their seed or breed . 
`` Dinna grow angry , mother , '' interposed Walter , thawing , in some degree , from the sternness of his resentment . 
`` Weel , weel , Watty , '' exclaimed Charlie , `` you must just put up wi ` t , ye 're no a penny the waur o ` t. '' By this sort of conversation Walter was in the end pacified , and reconciled to his destiny . 
Never did Nature show herself better pleased on any festival than on Walter 's wedding-day . 
The sun shone out as if his very rays were as much made up of gladness as of light . 
To this , however , Walter , the bridegroom , seemed disposed to make some objection , alleging that it might be a very good place for field-preaching , or for a tent on sacramental occasions , `` but it was an unco like thing to think of marrying folk under the canopy of the heavens ; adding , that he did na think it was canny to be married under a tree . '' 
The bride looked blushing and expectant , but Walter , instead of saluting her in the customary manner , held her by the hand at arm 's length , and said to the Doctor , `` Be served . '' 
`` It 's the last buss , '' added Walter , `` it 's the last buss , Betty Bodle , ye 'll e'er gie to mortal man while am your gudeman . '' 
The bride , who overheard part of this dialogue , started up at these words , and as Walter was in the act of stretching forth his hand to plunder the crown , she pulled him by the coat-tail , and drew him into the chair appropriated for him , sitting down , at the same time , in her own on his left , saying , in an angry whisper , -- `` Are ye fou ' already , Watty Walkinshaw ? 
When Claud first proposed the marriage to Kilmarkeckle , it was intended that the young couple should reside at Plealands ; but an opportunity had occurred , in the meantime , for Mr Keelevin to intimate to Mr Auchincloss , the gentleman who possessed the two farms , which , with the Grippy , constituted the ancient estate of Kittlestonheugh , that Mr Walkinshaw would be glad to make an excambio with him , and not only give Plealands , but even a considerable inducement in money . 
He was averse to speak to Charles on the subject , possibly from some feeling connected with the deed of entail ; and , it is unnecessary to say , that , although Walter was really principal in the business , he had no regard for what his opinion might be . 
The moment that this explanation was given to Walter , he remembered the parchments which he had signed , and the agitation of his father on the way home , and he made no scruple of loudly and bitterly declaring , with many a lusty sob , that he was cheated out of his inheritance by his father and Charles . 
The old man was confounded at this view which the Natural plausibly enough took of the arrangement ; but yet , anxious to conceal from his first-born the injustice with which he had used him in the entail , he at first attempted to silence Walter by threats , and then to cajole him with promises , but without effect ; at last , so high did the conflict rise between them , that Leddy Grippy and Walter 's wife came into the room to inquire what had happened . 
exclaimed Walter , the moment he saw them ; `` what are we to do ? 
Betty Bodle sat down in a chair , with her back to the window , and Walter , going to her , hung over her with an air of kindness , which his simplicity rendered at once affecting and tender ; while Leddy Grippy , petrified by what she heard , also sat down , and , leaning herself back in her seat , with a look of amazement , held her arms streaked down by her side , with all her fingers stretched and spread to the utmost . 
`` I 'm sure , '' replied the Laird , `` were the like o ' that to quiet thy unruly member , Girzy , and be any satisfaction to thee , that I hae done my full duty to Walter , a five score pound should na be wanting to stap up the gap . '' 
`` I 'll tell you what it is , father , interrupted Walter , if ye 'll gie the whole soom o ' a hundre pound , I care na gin ye mak drammock o ' the Plealands . '' 
`` A bargain be ` t , '' said Claud , happy to be relieved from their importunity ; but he added , with particular emphasis , to Watty 's wife , -- `` Dinna ye tak ony care about what 's passed ; the Divethill 's a good excambio for the Plealands , and it sall be bound as stiffly as law and statute can tether to you and your heirs by Walter . '' 
Perhaps , had he not , immediately after Walter 's marriage , been occupied with the legal arrangement consequent to an accepted proposal from Milrookit of Dirdumwhamle , to make Miss Meg his third wife , this apprehension might have hardened into animosity , and been exasperated to aversion ; but the cares and affairs of that business came , as it were , in aid of the father in his nature , and while they seemingly served to excuse his gradually abridged intercourse with Charles and Isabella , they prevented such an incurable induration of his heart from taking place towards them , as the feelings at work within him had an undoubted tendency to produce . 
In the meantime , the marriage of Miss Meg was consummated , and we have every disposition to detail the rites and the revels , but they were all managed in a spirit so much more moderate than Walter 's wedding , that the feast would seem made up but of the cold bake-meats of the former banquet . 
Walter and Betty Bodle resided at the Divethill ; and they , too , had the prospect of adding , as a Malthusian would say , to the mass of suffering mankind . 
The philosophical Kilmarkeckle continued his abstruse researches as successfully as ever into the affinities between snuff and the natures of beasts and birds , while the Laird of Dirdumwhamle and his Leddy struggled on in the yoke together , as well as a father and stepmother , amidst fifteen children , the progeny of two prior marriages , could reasonably be expected to do , where neither party was particularly gifted with delicacy or forbearance . 
The conjugal felicities of Walter afforded , however , but little pleasure to his father . 
The obstreperous humours of his daughter-in-law jarred with his sedate dispositions , and in her fun and freaks she so loudly showed her thorough knowledge of her husband 's defective intellects , that it for ever reminded him of the probable indignation with which the world would one day hear of the injustice he had done to Charles . 
In this fit of apathy and abstraction , he was roused by the sound of some one approaching ; and on looking up , and turning his eyes towards the path which led from the house to the bench where he was then sitting , he saw Walter coming . 
There was something unwonted in the appearance and gestures of Walter , which soon interested the old man . 
At one moment he rushed forward several steps , with a strange wildness of air . 
He would then stop and wring his hands , gaze upward , as if he wondered at some extraordinary phenomenon in the sky ; but seeing nothing , he dropped his hands , and , at his ordinary pace , came slowly up the hill . 
When he arrived within a few paces of the bench , he halted , and looked , with such an open and innocent sadness , that even the heart of his father , which so shortly before was as inert to humanity as case-hardened iron , throbbed with pity , and was melted to a degree of softness and compassion , almost entirely new to its sensibilities . 
said he , with unusual kindliness . 
The poor natural , however , made no reply , -- but continued to gaze at him with the same inexpressible simplicity of grief . 
In about the space of half a minute , Walter moved his eyes slowly round , as if he saw and followed something which filled him with awe and dread . 
He then suddenly checked himself , and said , `` It 's naething ; she 's no there . '' 
`` Sit down beside me , Watty , '' exclaimed his father , alarmed ; `` sit down beside me , and compose thysel . '' 
Walter did as he was bidden , and stretching out his feet , hung forward in such a posture of extreme listlessness and helpless despondency , that all power of action appeared to be withdrawn . 
But Walter , without attending to the question , repeated , with an accent of tenderness still more simple and touching , -- `` My Betty Bodle 's dead ! 
She 's awa up aboon the skies yon ` er , and left me a wee wee baby ; '' in saying which , he again burst into tears , and rising hastily from the bench , ran wildly back towards the Divethill-house , whither he was followed by the old man , where the disastrous intelligence was confirmed , that she had died in giving birth to a daughter . 
For he could not disguise to himself that a female heir was a contingency he had not contemplated ; that , by the catastrophe which had happened to the mother , the excambio of the Plealands for the Divethill would be rendered of no avail ; and that , unless Walter married again , and had a son , the re-united Kittlestonheugh property must again be disjoined , as the Divethill would necessarily become the inheritance of the daughter . 
The vexation of this was , however , alleviated , when he reflected on the pliancy of Walter 's character , and he comforted himself with the idea , that , as soon as a reasonable sacrifice of time had been made to decorum , he would be able to induce the natural to marry again . 
Shall we venture to say , it also occurred in the cogitations of his sordid ambition , that , as the infant was prematurely born , and was feeble and infirm , he entertained some hope it might die , and not interfere with the entailed destination of the general estate ? 
But if , in hazarding this harsh supposition , we do him any injustice , it is certain that he began to think there was something in the current of human affairs over which he could acquire no control , and that , although , in pursuing so steadily the single purpose of recovering his family inheritance , his endeavours had , till this period , proved eminently successful , he yet saw , with dismay , that , from the moment other interests came to be blended with those which he considered so peculiarly his own , other causes also came into operation , and turned , in spite of all his hedging and prudence , the whole issue of his labours awry . 
He perceived that human power was set at nought by the natural course of things , and nothing produced a more painful conviction of the wrong he had committed against his first-born , than the frustration of his wishes by the misfortune which had befallen Walter . 
His reflections were also embittered from another source ; by his parsimony he foresaw that , in the course of a few years , he would have been able , from his own funds , to have redeemed the Divethill without having had recourse to the excambio ; and that the whole of the Kittlestonheugh might thus have been his own conquest , and , as such , without violating any of the usages of society , he might have commenced the entail with Charles . 
In a word , the death of Walter 's wife and the birth of the daughter disturbed all his schemes , and rent from roof to foundation the castles which he had been so long and so arduously building . 
But it is necessary that we should return to poor Walter , on whom the loss of his beloved Betty Bodle acted with the incitement of a new impulse , and produced a change of character that rendered him a far less tractable instrument than his father expected to find . 
The sorrow of Walter , after he had returned home , assumed the appearance of a calm and settled melancholy . 
He sat beside the corpse with his hands folded and his head drooping . 
He made no answer to any question ; but as often as he heard the infant 's cry , he looked towards the bed , and said , with an accent of indescribable sadness , `` My Betty Bodle ! '' 
When the coffin arrived , his mother wished him to leave the room , apprehensive , from the profound grief in which he was plunged , that he might break out into some extravagance of passion , but he refused ; and , when it was brought in , he assisted with singular tranquillity in the ceremonial of the coffining . 
`` Do as I bid thee , or I 'll maybe gar thee fin ' the weight o ' my staff , '' cried the old man sharply , expecting immediate obedience to his commands , such as he always found , however positively Walter , on other occasions , at first refused ; but in this instance he was disappointed ; for the widower looked him steadily in the face , and said , -- `` I 'm a father noo ; it would be an awfu ' thing for a decent grey-headed man like you , father , to strike the head o ' a motherless family . '' 
`` I 'm sure I look for nae mair at your hands , father , '' replied Walter simply ; `` for my mither has often telt me , when ye hae been sitting sour and sulky in the nook , that ye would na begrudge crowns and pounds to mak me compos mentis for the benefit of Charlie . '' 
Claud started from his seat , and , with fury in his eyes , and his hands clenched , rushed across the room towards the spot where Walter was sitting , watching the infant in the nurse 's lap . 
Let strangers carry your wife to the kirk-yard , and see what ye 'll mak o ` t. '' But notwithstanding all these , and many more equally persuasive and commanding arguments , Walter was not to be moved , and the funeral , in consequence , was obliged to be performed without him . 
Yet still , though thus tortured in his feelings , the stern old man inflexibly adhered to his purpose . 
The old Leddy , in the meanwhile , had a world of cares upon her hands in breaking up the establishment which had been formed for Walter at the house on the Divethill , and in removing him back with the infant and the nurse to Grippy . 
But it had not before occurred to him , that even a marriage between the son of Charles and Walter 's daughter could not remedy the fault he had committed . 
Prior , however , to the marriage taking place , Mr Givan , a shrewd and worldly man , conceiving , that , as George was a younger son , his elder brother married , and Walter 's daughter standing between him and the succession to the estate , -- he stipulated that the bridegroom should be settled as a principal in business . 
But it also was soon converted into a new source of vexation and of punishment ; for Leddy Grippy , ever dotingly fond of Walter , determined , from the first hour in which she heard of the birth of Walkinshaw Milrookit , as the child was called , to match him with her favourite 's Betty ; and the mere possibility of such an event taking place filled her husband with anxiety and fear ; the expressions of which , and the peevish and bitter accents that he used in checking her loquacity on the subject , only served to make her wonderment at his prejudices the more and more tormenting . 
`` Mr Walkinshaw , '' said he , `` if you dinna like to apply to your father yoursel , could na some friend mediate for you ? 
`` He has made a deed , '' said Mr Keelevin , `` whereby he has cut you off frae the succession , in order that Walter , your brother , might be in a condition to make an exchange of the Plealands for the twa mailings that were wanting to make up wi ' the Grippy property , a restoration of the auld estate of Kittlestonheugh ; and I doubt it 's o ' a nature in consequence , that , even were he willing , canna be easily altered . '' 
`` I 'm wae , Mr Walkinshaw , '' said the honest lawyer , as he entered the room , `` to see you in sic an ailing condition ; what 's the matter wi ' you , and how lang hae ye been sae indisposed ? '' 
No that I hae muckle to say , but ye ken a ' sma ' things are a great fasherie to a weakly person , and I would na discompose you , Mr Walkinshaw , unless you just felt yoursel in your right ordinar , for , at your time o ' life , ony disturbance '' `` My time o ' life ? '' 
`` He 's weel enough , '' said the old man gruffly , and the lawyer continued , -- '' ` Deed , Mr Walkinshaw , he 's mair than weel enough . 
He 's by common , and it was with great concern I heard that you and him are no on sic a footing of cordiality as I had thought ye were . '' 
`` I doubt that his income is scant to his want , Mr Walkinshaw . '' 
But no to mak a hearing or an argument concerning the same -- Mr Charles requires a sma ' sum to get him free o ' a wee bit difficulty , for , ye ken , there are some folk , Mr Walkinshaw , that a flea-bite molests like the lash o ' a whip . '' 
Mr Keelevin , who , in the first part of this reply , had bent eagerly forward , was so thunderstruck by the conclusion , that he threw himself back in his chair with his arms extended ; but in a moment recovering from his consternation , he said , with fervour , -- `` Mr Walkinshaw , I mind weel the reproof ye gave me when I remonstrated wi ' you against the injustice ye were doing the poor lad in the entail , but there 's no consideration on this earth will let me alloo you to gang on in a course of error and prejudice . 
So do as ye like , Mr Walkinshaw , ride to the deevil at the full gallop for ought I care , but ye 's no get out o ' this world without hearing the hue and cry , that every Christian soul canna but raise after you . '' 
exclaimed Mr Keelevin , subdued from his indignation ; adding , `` and heavens preserve us , Mr Walkinshaw , an ony thing were happening on a sudden to carry you off , ye hae made na provision for Charlie nor your dochter . '' 
And it was in consequence agreed , that , in the course of a day or two , Claud should take Walter to Glasgow , to execute a deed , by which , in the event of surviving his father , he would undertake to pay a certain annuity for the behoof of Charles 's family , and that of his sister , Mrs Milrookit . 
In furtherance of the arrangement agreed upon , as we have described in the foregoing chapter , as soon as Mr Keelevin had retired , Claud summoned Walter into the parlour . 
Walter came from the nursery , where he had been dandling his child , and his appearance was not of the most prepossessing kind . 
From the death of his wife , in whose time , under her dictation , he was brushed up into something of a gentlemanly exterior , he had become gradually more and more slovenly . 
He only shaved on Saturday night , and buttoned his breeches knees on Sunday morning . 
Perceiving , or at least being afraid that he might again call his obduracy into action , he accordingly shifted his ground , and , instead of his wonted method of treating Walter with commands and menaces , he dexterously availed himself of the Leddy 's auxiliary assistance . 
`` I 'll do every thing to serve my mother , '' replied Walter , `` but I 'll no sign ony papers . '' 
`` Surely , Watty Walkinshaw , '' exclaimed the old Leddy , surprised at this repetition of his refusal , `` ye would na see me in want , and driven to a needcessity to gang frae door to door , wi ' a meal-pock round my neck , and an oaken rung in my hand ? '' 
replied the Leddy , looking at her darling and ungrateful Walter , `` ye see what it is to hae a kind father ; but ill ye deserve ony attention either frae father or mother , for your condumacity is ordained to break our hearts . '' 
`` Mother , '' said Walter , `` dinna be in sic a hurry -- I hae something that ` illdo Charlie good . '' 
In saying which , he rose and went to the nursery , whence he immediately returned with a pill box . 
Walter , who still remained on his seat , appeared for some time not to notice his father 's gestures ; but the old man unconsciously began to quicken his steps , and at last walked so rapidly that his son 's attention was roused . 
`` Something maun be done , '' said he as the servant , accompanied by Walter , left the room ; `` the curse of God has fallen upon me , my hands are tied , a dreadfu ' chain is fastened about me ; I hae cheated mysel , and there 's nae bail -- no , not in the Heavens -- for the man that has wilfully raffled away his own soul in the guilty game o ' pride . '' 
Before his mother reached the house , he had lost all sense of himself and situation , and his mind was a chaos of the wildest and most extravagant phantasies . 
Occasionally , however , he would sink into a momentary calm , when a feeble gleam of reason would appear amidst his ravings , like the transient glimmer of a passing light from the shore on the black waves of the stormy ocean , when the cry has arisen at midnight of a vessel on the rocks , and her crew in jeopardy . 
But these breathing pauses of the fever 's rage were , perhaps , more dreadful than its violence , for they were accompanied with a return of the moral anguish which had brought on his malady ; and as often as his eye caught the meek , but desponding countenance of Isabella , as she sat by his bed-side , he would make a convulsive effort to raise himself , and instantly relapse into the tempestuous raptures of the delirium . 
In this state he passed the night . 
Towards morning symptoms of a change began to show themselves , -- the turbulence of his thoughts subsided , -- his breathing became more regular ; and both Isabella and his mother were persuaded that he was considerably better . 
Under this impression , the old lady , at day-break , dispatched a messenger to inform his father of the favourable change , who , in the interval , had passed a night , in a state , not more calm , and far less enviable , than that of his distracted son . 
Mrs George Walkinshaw had , for some time , given a large promise , in her appearance , of adding to the heirs of Kittlestonheugh ; but , by her residence in Glasgow , and holding little intercourse with the Grippy family , owing to her own situation , and to her dislike of the members , especially after Walter had been brought back with his child ; the Laird and Leddy were less acquainted with her maternal progress than might have been expected , particularly when the anxiety of the old man , with respect to male issue , is considered . 
Being something forward , at the same time sly and adroit , and having heard how much her old master had been disappointed that Walter 's daughter was not a son , she made no scruple of employing a little address in communicating her news . 
Walter was in the room with him , dressed for church , and dandling his child . 
At first Mr Keelevin felt a little embarrassment , not being exactly aware in what manner the news he had to communicate might be received ; but seeing how Walter was engaged , he took occasion to commend his parental affection . 
`` That 's acting like a father , Mr Walter , '' said he ; `` for a kind parent innocently pleasuring his bairn is a sight that the very angels are proud to look on . 
Mak muckle o ' the poor wee thing , for nobody can tell how long she may be spared to you . 
I dare say , Mr Walkinshaw , '' he added , addressing himself to Claud , `` ye hae mony a time been happy in the same manner wi ' your own children ? '' 
To which Walter added singingly as he swung his child by the arms , -- `` But no to enter upon any controversy , Mr Walkinshaw , '' said Mr Keelevin , -- `` ye 'll no hae heard the day how your son Charles is ? '' 
`` I 'm greatly concerned about him , '' resumed the lawyer , scarcely aware of the address with which , in his simplicity , he was moving on towards the fatal communication ; `` I am greatly concerned about him , but mair for his young children -- they 'll be very helpless orphans , Mr Walkinshaw . '' 
cried Walter , pausing , and setting down the child on the floor , and seating himself beside it ; `` how do ye ken that , father ? '' 
`` What 's done , is done , and canna be helped , '' resumed the lawyer ; `` but reparation may yet , by some sma cost and cooking , be made ; and I hope Mr Walkinshaw , considering what has happened , ye 'll do your duty . '' 
`` I 'll sign nae papers , '' interposed Walter ; `` I 'll do nothing to wrang my wee Betty Bodle , '' -- and he fondly kissed the child . 
`` Heavens preserve us , Mr Walkinshaw ! '' 
cried Mr Keelevin , rising to his assistance ; but , in the same moment , the old man uttered a groan so deep and dreadful , so strange and superhuman , that Walter snatched up his child , and rushed in terror out of the room . 
After this earthquake-struggle , he in some degree recovered himself , and the lawyer returned to his chair , where he remained some time silent . 
`` Mr Walkinshaw , '' said he , `` I have long done you great injustice ; '' and he was proceeding to say something more as an apology , but Claud interrupted him . 
`` I think , Mr Walkinshaw , '' replied Mr Keelevin , falling into his professional manner on receiving these orders , `` that it would be as weel for me to come back the morn , when ye 're more composed , to get the particulars of what ye wish done . '' 
`` I hope , in mercy , Mr Walkinshaw , that ye 'll be comforted , '' said the worthy lawyer , deeply affected by his vehemence . 
-- Dinner was placed on the table at the usual hour ; but he did not join Walter . 
To this sage observation the grey-haired penitent made no reply ; and Walter finished his meal without attempting to draw him again into conversation . 
For some time they sat together without speaking ; the minister appearing to wait in expectation that the penitent would address him first ; but observing him still disposed to continue silent , he at last said , -- `` Mr Keelevin told me , Mr Walkinshaw , that ye wished to see me under this dispensation with which the hand o ' a righteous Providence has visited your family . '' 
`` I was ay o ' that notion , '' said the Reverend Doctor , not quite sure whether the contrition so humbly expressed was sincere or affected , but the meek look of resignation with which the desolate old man replied to the cutting sarcasm , moved the very heart of the chastiser with strong emotions of sympathy and grief ; and he added , in his kindliest manner , -- `` But I hope , Mr Walkinshaw , I may say to you , ` Brother , be of good cheer ; ' for if this stroke , by which your first-born is cut off from the inheritance of the years that were in the promise of his winsome youth , is ta'en and borne as the admonition of the vanity of setting your heart on the things of carnal life , it will prove to you a great blessing for evermore . '' 
`` Ye should na , Mr Walkinshaw , '' replied the clergyman , awed by the energy and solemnity of his manner -- `` Ye should na entertain such desperate thoughts , but hope for better things ; for it 's a blithe thing for your precious soul to be at last sensible o ' your own unworthiness . '' 
`` ` Deed , Mr Walkinshaw , there are few shorter roads to the pit than through the kirk-door ; and many a Christian has been brought nigh to the death , thinking himsel cheered and guided by the sound o ' gospel preaching , when , a ' the time , his ear was turned to the sough o ' perdition . 
`` Ye can do naething yoursel , Mr Walkinshaw , '' replied the minister ; and he proceeded , with the fearlessness of a champion and the energy of an apostle , to make manifest to his understanding the corruption of the human heart , and its utter unworthiness in the pure eyes of Him that alone can wash away the Ethiopian hue of original sin , and eradicate the Leopard spots of personal guilt . 
`` I see but in that , '' said the pious Doctor , in a kind and consoling manner , `` I see but in a ' that , Mr Walkinshaw , an inordinate love of the world ; and noo that ye 're awakened to a sense of your danger , the Comforter will soon come . 
Mr Walkinshaw , but ye hae been a doure sinner , '' was the simple and emphatic reply ; `` and I hope that this sense o ' the evil of your way is an admonition to a repentance that may lead you into the right road at last . 
`` Still I say , be thankful , Mr Walkinshaw ! 
The like o ' that , Mr Walkinshaw , is naething ; but when , by the removal of a friend , we are taught to see the error of our way , it 's a great thing for us -- it 's a blithe thing ; and , therefore , I say unto you again , brother , be of good cheer , for in this temporal death of your son , may be the Lord has been pleased to bring about your own salvation . '' 
`` Is ' t possible that ye 're sincere , Mr Walkinshaw ? '' 
inquired the Lady , surprised at his vehemence -- `` what have ye done to make you speak in such a way , Mr Walkinshaw ? '' 
The domestics , however , began to notice , that , instead of the sharp and contemptuous manner which he usually employed in addressing himself to Walter , his voice was modulated with an accent of compassion , -- and that , on the third day after the death of Charles , he , for the first time , caressed and fondled the affectionate natural 's darling , Betty Bodle . 
It might have been thought that this simple little incident would have afforded pleasure to her father , who happened to be out of the room , when the old man took her up in his arms ; but so far from this being the case , the moment that Walter returned he ran towards him , and snatched the child away . 
Walter , however , made no reply , but retiring to a distant part of the room , carefully inspected the child , and frequently inquired where she was hurt , although she was laughing and tickled with his nursery-like proceedings . 
`` What gars t ` ee think , Watty , '' rejoined his father , `` that I would hurt the wean ? '' 
`` An I did , Watty , it was nae ill wis. '' `` So I ken , or else the minister lies , '' replied Walter ; `` but I would na like , for a ' that , to hae her sent till him ; and noo , as they say ye 're ta'en up wi ' Charlie 's bairns , I jealouse ye hae some end o ' your ain for rooketty-cooing wi ' my wee Betty Bodle . 
This sank deeper into the wounded heart of his father than even the distrust of the orphans ; but the old man made no answer . 
Walter , however , observed him muttering something to himself , as he leant his head back , with his eyes shut , against the shoulder of the easy chair in which he was sitting ; and rising softly with the child in his arms , walked cautiously behind the chair , and bent forward to listen . 
Walter was scarcely more confounded by the blow than by these impassioned exclamations ; and hastily quitting the room , ran , with the child in his arms , to his mother , who happened at the time , as was her wont , to be in the kitchen on household cares intent , crying , -- `` Mother ! 
said Walter , who was in the room at the time ; `` ye speak unco drumly -- hae ye bitten your tongue ? '' 
But scarcely had he uttered these words , when the astonished creature gave a wild and fearful shout , and , clasping his hands above his head , cried , `` Help ! 
Walter alone remained with him , and continued gazing in his face with a strange horror , which idiocy rendered terrific . 
Before any of the servants returned , the violence of the shock seemed to subside , and he appeared to be sensible of his situation . 
The moment that the first entered the room he made an effort to speak , and the name of Keelevin was two or three times so distinctly articulated , that even Walter understood what he meant , and immediately ran wildly to Glasgow for the lawyer . 
Another messenger was dispatched for the Leddy , who had , during the forenoon , gone to her daughter-in-law , with the intention of spending the day . 
Walter , who had made the utmost speed for Mr Keelevin , returned soon after his mother ; and , on appearing before his father , the old man eagerly spoke to him ; but his voice was so thick , that few of his words were intelligible . 
`` Sir , '' said the Doctor , who was standing at the other side of the patient , `` Mr Walkinshaw is in no condition to understand you . '' 
`` It is impossible that he can write , '' said the Doctor . 
As soon as the nature of the settlement which Claud had made of his property was known , Leddy Plealands removed Mrs Charles and the children to her own house , and earnestly entreated her daughter the Leddy , who continued to reside at Grippy , managing the household cares there as usual , to exert her influence with Walter to make some provision for his unfortunate relations . 
But Walter was inexorable . 
`` If my father , '' said he , `` did sic a wicked thing to Charlie as ye a ' say , what for would ye hae me to do as ill and as wrang to my bairn ? 
`` But you know , Walter , '' replied George , `` that our father did intend to make some provision both for Mrs Charles her family and our sister , and it 's really a disgrace to us all if nothing be done for them . 
I 'm wee Betty Bodle 's steward , and no man shall upbraid me wi ' being unfaithfu ' , '' replied Walter . 
All this , however , made no impression ; but George , in walking back to Glasgow , several times thought of what had fallen from his mother respecting the attempt which had been made to set aside her father 's settlement , on the score of Walter 's idiocy ; and once or twice it occurred to him that the thing was still not impracticable , and that , being next heir of entail , and nearest male relative , it might be of advantage to his own family to get the management of the estate . 
From that period , George took no farther interest in the affairs of his sister-in-law , but his visits became unusually frequent to Grippy , and he was generally always attended by some friend , whom he led into conversation with his brother , calculated to call forth the least equivocal disclosures of the state of Walter 's mind . 
But whatever were his motives for these visits , and this kind of conduct , he kept them close within his own breast . 
No one suspected him of any sinister design , but many applauded his filial attentions to his mother ; for so his visits were construed , and they were deemed the more meritorious on account of the state of his own family , his wife , after the birth of her twin daughters , having fallen into ill health . 
Indeed , he was in general contemplated with sentiments of compassion and respect . 
Every body had heard of his anxiety , on the death of his father , to procure some provision for his deceased brother 's family , and sympathised with the regret which he expressed at finding Walter so niggardly and intractable ; for not a word was breathed of his incapacity . 
The increased thoughtfulness and reserve of his manner which began , we may say , from the conversation quoted , was in consequence attributed to the effect of his comfortless domestic situation , and the public sympathy was considerably augmented , when , in the course of the same year in which his father died , he happened to lose one of his daughters . 
There were , however , among his friends , as there are always about most men , certain shrewd and invidious characters , and some among them did not give him credit for so much sensibility as their mutual acquaintance in common parlance ascribed to him . 
On the contrary , they openly condemned his indelicacy , in so often exposing the fooleries of his brother ; and those who had detected the well hidden sordid meanness of his disposition , wondered that he had so quietly acquiesced in Walter 's succession . 
But they had either forgotten , or had never heard of , the circumstance to which his mother alluded with respect to her relation , the Mauchlin maltster 's attempt to invalidate her father 's will , and , of course , were not aware of the address requisite to prove the incapacity of a man whose situation had been already investigated , and who , by a solemn adjudication , was declared in the full possession of all his faculties . 
Walter 's daughter , a premature child , had from her birth been always infirm and delicate . 
George , in the meanwhile , called several times at the house , and took occasion , in going there one day , to ask the Reverend Doctor Denholm to accompany him , under the pretext that perhaps he might prevail with Walter to allow the body to be removed , as it was beginning to grow offensive . 
But , when they reached the house , Walter was missing -- he had suddenly and unobserved quitted the room where the corpse lay , and his mother , availing herself of his absence , was busily preparing for the interment . 
They waited some time in expectation of his return , believing he had only walked into the fields , in consequence of the air of the chamber having become intolerable ; but , after conversing upwards of an hour on general topics , some anxiety began to be expressed for his appearance , and his mother grew so alarmed , that servants were dispatched in all directions in quest of him . 
They had not , however , proceeded far , when he was met on the Glasgow road , coming with his niece Mary in his arms , followed by Leddy Plealands ' maid-servant , loudly remonstrating with him for carrying off the child , and every now and then making an attempt to snatch it from his arms . 
cried his mother , as she saw him approaching towards the house . 
He , however , made no answer ; but , carrying the child into the nursery , he immediately stripped it naked , and dressed her in the clothes of his own daughter , caressing and pleasing her with a thousand fond assurances -- calling her his third Betty Bodle , and betraying all the artless delight and satisfaction with which a child regards a new toy . 
Dr Denholm , happening to be among those who wondered that his brother had permitted him to succeed his father unmolested , and on seeing this indisputable proof of idiocy according to the notions of society , said , -- `` I canna refrain , Mr George , from telling you , that I think it 's no right to alloo such a fine property as your father left , to be exposed to wastrie and ruination in the possession of such a haverel . 
George had , in fact , been long fishing for something of the kind , but nothing had occurred to provoke so explicit an opinion of Walter 's obvious incapacity . 
He , however , replied cautiously , -- `` Some allowance , Doctor , must be made for the consternation of his sorrow ; and ye should know that it 's a kittle point of law to determine when a man has or has not his sufficient senses . '' 
`` For , in the event of not succeeding , he must suffer great obloquy in the opinion of the world ; and you know that , with respect to Walter , the attempt was once made already . '' 
`` And every body said , '' cried the Leddy , `` that , but for the devices of auld draughty Keelevin , he would hae been proven as mad as a March hare ; and nae doubt , as he kens how he jookit the law afore , he might be o ' an instrumentality were the thing to gang to a revisidendo . 
After the minister and George had left the house , the cares , we should say the enjoyments , of the Leddy were considerably increased , when she had leisure to reflect on the singular transaction by which Walter had supplied himself with another child . 
What with the requisite preparations for the funeral of his daughter next day , and `` this new income , '' as she called the adopted orphan , `` that , in itself , was a handling little short o ' a birth , '' she had not , from the death of her husband , found herself half so earnestly occupied as on this sorrowful occasion . 
You know there are many little peculiarities about Mr Walter that do not exactly fit him for taking charge of children . '' 
`` But , since he 's willing to bear the cost and charge o ' her , '' said the Leddy , `` ye should mak no objek , but conform ; for ye ken , I 'll hae the direction o ' her edication ; and am sure ye would na wis to see her any better brought up than was our Meg , Mrs Milrookit , who could once play seven tunes and a march on the spinet , and sewed a satin piece , at Embrough , of Adam and Eve eating the forbidden fruit under the tree of life ; -- the like of which had na before been seen in a ' this kintra side . 
We need scarcely add , however , that the Leddy 's argument was not calculated with her to produce the effect intended ; on the contrary , she said , -- `` What you tell me only serves to convince me of the impropriety I should be guilty of in leaving my child with Walter . '' 
But their conversation was interrupted at this juncture by the entrance of Walter , leading Mary . 
`` I 'm come , '' said he , `` Bell Fatherlans , to tell you that ye 're to gang away hame , and bring Jamie here to stay wi ' us . 
cried she to Walter , under a strong impression of it at the moment , -- `` are ye utterly bereav ' t o ' your senses , to speak o ' bringing the lade o ' another family on my hands ? '' 
`` I 'm sure , '' was his answer , `` if ye dinna like to tak the pleasure o ` t , ye 're free to set up your jointure house , and live the life o ' dowager duchess , for me , mother . 
`` An she does na , '' said Walter , `` I 'll gang away where never one kent me , and tak her wee Mary on my back in a basket , like Jenny Nettles -- that 's what I will ; so put the matter to your knee and straight it . '' 
`` I 'll mak a bargain , Mr Walter , '' replied Mrs Charles , -- `` I 'll leave Mary tonight , and come , after the burial to-morrow , with James , and stay a few days . '' 
`` Ye 'll stay a ' your days , '' exclaimed Walter ; `` and as ye 're a leddy o ' mair genteelity than my mother , ye shall hae the full rule and power o ' the house , and mak jam and jelly ; -- a ' the cast o ' her grace and skill gangs nae farther than butter and cheese . '' 
His mother was confounded , and unable for some time to utter a word . 
The indignant mother was not , however , soon appeased , -- her wrath for some time burnt fiercely , and it required no little dexterity on the part of her daughter-in-law to allay the altercation which ensued ; but in the end her endeavours proved successful , and the result was an arrangement , that the child should be left for a day or two , to ascertain whether Walter 's attachment was dictated by caprice or a transfer of his affections . 
The minister , who was naturally of a warm and benevolent disposition , persuaded himself that the proposal of Walter , to receive his sister-in-law and her family , was dictated by a sense of duty and of religion , and regretted that he had so hastily expressed himself so strongly respecting his incapacity . 
And , as she consented to remain that day to dinner , it was thought , considering the disposition Walter had shown to squander his gifts on his sister-in-law , without any consideration for the rest of the family , it might be as well to consult Mr Keelevin on the occasion . 
In due time Mr Keelevin made his appearance ; and the Leddy began a strong representation of all the indignities which she had endured , but her son softly and mildly interposed , saying , -- `` It is of no use , my dear mother , to trouble Mr Keelevin with these things ; he knows the infirmities of Walter as well as we do . 
It 's no possible that Walter can be alloo ' t to riot and ravage in sic a most rabiator-like manner ; for I need na tell you , that he 's gane beyond all counsel and admonition . 
Mr Keelevin gave a profound sigh , adding , in a sort of apologistic manner , -- `` But Walter has maybe undergone some change since that time ? '' 
`` Yes , '' said George , `` the grief and consternation into which he was thrown by the sudden death of his wife had undoubtedly a great effect on his mind . '' 
`` He was clean dementit at that time , '' cried the Leddy ; `` he would neither buff nor stye for father nor mother , friend nor foe ; a ' the King 's forces would na hae gart him carry his wife 's head in a wise-like manner to the kirk-yard . 
Mr Keelevin replied , `` I will honestly confess to you , that I do think there has of late been signs of a want about Mr Walter . 
But in his kindness to his poor brother 's widow and family , there 's great proof and evidence , both of a sound mind , reason , and a right heart . 
Ye 'll just , Mrs Walkinshaw , hae to fight on wi ' him as well as ye can , for in the conscience o ' me I would , knowing what I know of the family , be wae and sorry to disturb such a consolatory manifestation of brotherly love . '' 
`` That 's just my opinion , '' said George , `` and I would fain persuade my mother to put up with the slights and ill usage to which she is so distressingly subjected -- at the same time , I can not say , but I have my fears , that her situation is likely to be made worse rather than better , for Walter appears disposed , not only to treat her in a very mean and unworthy manner , but to give the whole dominion of the house to Mrs Charles . '' 
`` He did far waur , he a ` maist turnt me out o ' the house by the shouthers . '' 
`` Did he lay hands on you , his mother ? '' 
Mr Keelevin , however , of a sudden , appeared to detect his drift , and gave him such a rebuking look , that he became confused and embarrassed , during which the honest lawyer rose and wished them good afternoon -- saying to George , who accompanied him to the door , -- `` The deil needs baith a syde cloak and a wary step to hide his cloven-foot -- I 'll say nae mair , Mr George ; but dinna mak your poor brother 's bairns waur than they are -- and your mother should na be egget on in her anger , when she happens , poor body , to tak the dods now and then -- for the most sensible of women hae their turns o ' tantrums , and need baith rein and bridle . '' 
Indeed , any change that could be perceived in her manner was calculated to lull every suspicion , -- for she appeared more than usually considerate and attentive towards Walter , and even condescended to wheedle and coax him on different occasions , when it would have been more consonant to her wonted behavior had she employed commands and reproaches . 
Walter also followed him , under the influence of the same feeling , and said , -- `` Come in , Bell Fatherlans , and see what a warld 's won ` er Pitwinnoch the writer has brought to our house . 
Mrs Charles was alarmed at hearing of such a visitor ; for the journey of George and Pitwinnoch to Edinburgh immediately occurred to her , and a feeling of compassion , mingled with gratitude for the kindness which Walter had lately shown to herself and her children , suggested that she ought to put him on his guard . 
`` Walter , '' said she , `` I would not advise you to go near the house while the two lawyers are there , -- for who knows what they may do to you ? 
The natural , who had an instinctive horror of the law , made no reply , but , with a strong expression of terror in his countenance , immediately left her , and went straight to Glasgow . 
During the journey of George and Pitwinnoch to Edinburgh , a Brief of Chancery had been quietly obtained , directing the Sheriff of the county to summon a jury , to examine into the alleged fatuity of Walter ; and the visit of the latter with Mr Threeper , the advocate , to Grippy , was to meet George , for the purpose of determining with respect to the evidence that it might be requisite to adduce before the inquest . 
`` But you say it is the mother that has chiefly incited Mr Walkinshaw to this action . '' 
`` So he told me , '' replied the writer . 
`` Weel , Mr Walter , '' said the honest writer , looking up from a deed he was perusing , somewhat surprised at seeing him -- `` What 's the best o ' your news the day , and what 's brought you frae Grippy ? '' 
`` Mr Keelevin , '' replied Walter , going towards him on tiptoe , and whispering audibly in his ear , `` I 'll tell you something , Mr Keelevin : -- twa gleds o ' the law hae lighted yonder ; and ye ken , by your ain ways , that the likes o ' them dinna flee afield for naething . '' 
exclaimed Mr Keelevin ; and the recollection of his interview with George and the Leddy flashing upon him at the moment , he at once divined the object of their visit ; and added , `` It 's most abominable ; -- but ken ye what they 're seeking , Mr Walter ? '' 
`` But Bell Fatherlans bade me come and tell you ; for she thought I might need your counsel . '' 
`` She has acted a true friend 's part ; and I 'm glad ye 're come , '' replied the lawyer ; `` and for her and her bairns ' sake , I hope we 'll be able to defeat their plots and devices . 
But I would advise you , Mr Walter , to keep out o ' harm 's way , and no gang in the gate o ' the gleds , as ye ca ' them . '' 
cried Walter timidly , and looking anxiously round the room . 
`` Ye should na speak sic havers , Mr Walter , but conduct yourself mair like a man , '' said his legal friend grievedly . 
`` Indeed , Mr Walter , as I hae some notion that they 're come to tak down your words -- may be to spy your conduct , and mak nae gude report thereon to their superiors -- tak my advice , and speak as little as possible . '' 
`` There will , I hope , Mr Walter , '' said he , `` be no occasion to put any restraint like that upon yoursel ; only it 's my advice to you as a friend , to enter into no conversation with any one you do not well know , and to dress in your best clothes , and shave yoursel , -- and in a ' things demean and deport yoursel , like the laird o ' Kittlestonheugh , and the representative of an ancient and respected family . '' 
`` For the love o ' Heaven , Mr Walter , '' exclaimed the lawyer , `` do nae sic mad like action ! 
`` In whatna other way , then , '' said Walter helplessly , `` can I behave like a gentleman , or a laird o ' yird and stane , wi ' the retinue o ' an ancient pedigree like my father 's Walkinshaws o ' Kittlestonheugh ? '' 
`` I 'm sure , '' exclaimed Walter despairingly , `` that the Maker was ill aff for a turn when he took to the creating o ' lawyers . 
`` Mr Walter , '' said his friend , after a pause of several minutes , `` go you to Mrs Hypel , your grandmother , for the present , and I 'll out to Grippy , and sift the meaning o ' this visitation . 
`` I 'll smash them like a fore hammer , '' exclaimed Walter proudly . 
`` Weel , weel , Mr Walter , '' was the chagrined and grieved reply , `` we 'll see to that when I return ; but it 's a terrible thing to think o ' proving a man non compos mentis for the only sensible action he ever did in all his life . 
Nevertheless , I will not let myself despond ; and I have only for the present to exhort you to get yoursel in an order and fitness to appear as ye ought to be ; -- for really , Mr Walter , ye alloo yoursel to gang sae like a divor , that I dinna wonder ye hae been ta'en notice o ' . 
Walter assured him , that his advice would in every respect be followed ; and , leaving the office , he went straight to the residence of his grandmother , while Mr Keelevin , actuated at once by his humanity and professional duty , ordered his horse , and reached Grippy just as the advocate , Mr Pitwinnoch , and George , were on the point of coming away , after waiting in vain for the return of Walter , whom Mr Threeper was desirous of conversing with personally . 
What say you , Mr Walkinshaw ? '' 
`` If , however , the forms of the procedure required that an agent should act for Walter , I have no objection ; at the same time , I do not think Mr Keelevin the fittest person . '' 
`` I came at Mr Walter 's own particular and personal request , '' was the reply ; and he turned at the same time towards the advocate , and added , `` That does not look very like fatuity . '' 
`` He never could hae done that o ' his own free will . 
I think it will be no easy thing to prove Mr Walter incapable o ' managing his own affairs , with his mother 's assistance . '' 
Our friend Gabriel glanced the tail of his eye at the advocate , who , without affecting to have noticed the interested motive which the Leddy had betrayed , said to Mr Keelevin , -- `` The case , Sir , can not but go before a jury ; for , although the fatuus be of a capacity to repeat any injunction which he may have received , and which is not inconsistent with a high degree of fatuity -- it does not therefore follow that he is able to originate such motions or volitions of the mind as are requisite to constitute what may be denominated a legal modicum of understanding , the possession of which in Mr Walter Walkinshaw is the object of the proposed inquiry to determine . '' 
`` What is your opinion of Mr Walter Walkinshaw ? '' 
`` ` Deed , Sir , '' said Jenny , `` I hae but a sma ' opinion o ' him -- he 's a daft man , and has been sae a ' his days . '' 
`` Very ingenious , indeed , '' said Mr Threeper ; `` and I am sure the gentlemen of the jury must be satisfied that it is not possible to give a clearer -- a more distinctive impression of the deficiency of Mr Walkinshaw 's capacity , than has been given by this simple and innocent country girl . 
-- But , Jenny , can you tell us of any instance of his daftness ? '' 
`` I can tell you o ' naething but the sic like about him . '' 
`` Can not you remember any thing he said or did on any particular day ? '' 
Before she left the box , the Sheriff said Jocularly , -- `` I 'm sure , from your account , Jenny , that Mr Walkinshaw 's no a man ye would like to marry ? '' 
`` Well , Mr Saxheere , '' said the Edinburgh advocate , `` what have you to say with respect to the state of Mr Walter Walkinshaw ? '' 
-- Now , I would ask you , if Mr Walkinshaw were to come to your shop on the market day , would you deal with him ? 
-- would you , on your oath , smell the glass , and then hand it across the counter , to be by him drunk off ? '' 
The advocate intended this as a display of his intimate knowledge of the local habits and usages of Glasgow , though himself but an Edinburgh man , -- in order to amaze the natives by his cleverness `` Sir , '' replied Mr Saxheere , again repeating his habitual congratulatory smack , `` much would rely on the purpose for which he came to custom . 
If he offered me yarn for sale , there could be no opponency on my side to give him the fair price of the day ; but , if he wanted to buy , I might undergo some constipation of thought before compliance . '' 
The object that George probably had in view in taking him , as an occasional visitor , to see his brother , was , perhaps , to qualify the Professor to bear testimony to the arithmetical incapacity of Walter ; and certainly the Professor had always found him sufficiently incapable to have warranted him to give the most decisive evidence on that head ; but a circumstance had occurred at the last visit , which came out in the course of the investigation , by which it would appear the opinion of the learned mathematician was greatly shaken . 
`` I am informed , Professor , that you are acquainted with Mr Walter Walkinshaw . 
`` You may retire , '' said the advocate , disconcerted ; and the Professor immediately withdrew ; for still the counsel in behalf of Walter declined to cross question . 
Not so was Mr Keelevin , who nodded to Mr Queerie , the counsel for Walter ; and he immediately rose . 
`` I wish , '' said he , `` just to put one question to the witness . 
Mr Queerie resumed , -- `` Your situation , I perceive , has been for some time very unhappy -- but , I suppose , were Mr Walkinshaw to make you a reasonable compensation for the trouble you take in managing his house , you would have no objections still to continue with him . '' 
At this juncture , Mr Queerie , perceiving her wariness , sat down ; and the Reverend Dr Denholm being called by Mr Threeper , stated , in answer to the usual question , -- `` I acknowledge , that I do not think Mr Walkinshaw entirely of a sound mind ; but he has glaiks and gleams o ' sense about him , that mak me very dootful if I could judicially swear , that he canna deport himsel wi ' sufficient sagacity . '' 
`` I 'll no disown that , '' replied the Doctor ; `` but Mr Walter has since then done such a humane and a Christian duty to his brother 's widow , and her two defenceless and portionless bairns , that I canna , in my conscience , think now so lightly of him as I once did . '' 
Here the jury consulted together ; and , after a short conference , the foreman inquired if Mr Walkinshaw was in Court . 
When the Leddy returned from the Court to Grippy , Walter , who had in the meantime been somehow informed of the nature of the proceedings instituted against him , said to his mother , -- `` Weel , mother , so ye hae been trying to mak me daft ? 
`` I 'm sure I hae nae hand i n't , '' said Walter ; `` an ye had na meddlet wi ' me , I would ne'er hae spoken to Keelevin , to vex you . 
`` I 'll no gang , '' replied Walter ; `` I hae nae broo o ' Courts and law-pleas . '' 
Gabriel Pitwinnoch , who began to distrust the effect of the evidence , was troubled not a little at this observation ; for he thought , if Walter spoke as well to the point before the Court , the cause must be abandoned . 
`` I hae mair modesty , '' replied Walter , `` than to be my ain trumpeter -- I 'll say naething but what Mr Keelevin bids me . '' 
said Walter . 
I 'm sure Mr Walter will be willing to grant a reasonable consideration to his mother for her care and trouble in the house , and even to assign a moitie o ' his income to you , Mr George . 
`` I 'm no an idiot , Mr Keelevin , '' exclaimed Walter -- `` though it seems to me that there 's a thraw in the judgment o ' the family , or my mother and brother would ne'er hae raised this straemash about my capacity to take care o ' the property . 
`` ` Deed , Mr Keelevin , '' replied Walter , `` ye 're mista'en there ; for I hae had twa teeth tuggit out for the toothache since syne ; and I hae grown deaf in the left lug . '' 
said Walter , `` that 's a ' ye ken about it . 
Walter himself also at once acquiesced , on the express condition , that he was not to be obliged to sign any law-papers . 
Next day , when the Court again assembled , Walter was there , seated beside his agent , and dressed in his best . 
Every eye was directed towards him ; and the simple expression of wonder , mingled with anxiety , which the scene around him occasioned , gave an air of so much intelligence to his features , which were regular , and , indeed , handsome , that he excited almost universal sympathy ; even Mr Threeper was perplexed , when he saw him , at the proper time , rise from beside his friend , and , approaching the bottom of the table , make a slow and profound bow , first to the Sheriff and then to the jury . 
`` You are Mr Walkinshaw , I believe ? '' 
`` I believe I am , '' replied Walter , timidly . 
`` What are you , Mr Walkinshaw ? '' 
A roar of laughter shook the Court , and Threeper blushed and was disconcerted ; but he soon resumed , tartly , -- `` Upon my word , Mr Walkinshaw , you have a good opinion of yourself . 
`` That 's a droll question to speer at a man , '' replied Walter . 
Mr Keelevin trembled and grew pale ; and the advocate , recovering full possession of his assurance , proceeded , -- `` And so ye think , Mr Walkinshaw , that the two hands make all the difference between a man and a parrot ? '' 
`` No , no , Sir , '' replied Walter , `` I dinna think that , -- for ye ken the beast has feathers . '' 
`` That 's no a right question , Sir , to put to the like o ' me , a weak human creature ; -- ye should ask their Maker , '' said Walter gravely . 
`` At some things , '' replied Walter modestly ; `` but I dinna like to make a roos o ' mysel . '' 
`` And pray now , Mr Walkinshaw , may I ask what do you think you do best ? '' 
However , he soon righted , and proceeded , -- `` I do n't doubt your ability in that way , Mr Walkinshaw ; and I dare say you can play a capital knife and fork . '' 
`` I 'm better at the spoon , '' replied Walter laughing . 
-- But noo , since , '' continued Walter , `` ye hae speer ' t so many questions at me , will ye answer one yoursel ? '' 
`` O , I can have no possible objection to do that , Mr Walkinshaw . '' 
`` Then , '' said Walter , `` how muckle are ye to get frae my brother for this job ? '' 
`` I suspect so too , '' replied the advocate laughing ; but , addressing himself again to Walter , he said , -- `` You have been married , Mr Walkinshaw ? '' 
`` I had , '' said Walter , and glanced anxiously towards his trembling agent . 
No answer was immediately given -- Walter hung his head , and seemed troubled ; he sighed deeply , and again turned his eye inquiringly to Mr Keelevin . 
Almost every one present sympathised with his emotion , and ascribed it to parental sorrow . 
The counsel shifted his ground , without noticing the question ; and said , -- `` But I understand , Mr Walkinshaw , you have still a child that you call your Betty Bodle ? '' 
`` I did not mean to offend you , Mr Walkinshaw ; I was only anxious , for the ends of justice , to know if you consider the child you call Betty Bodle as your daughter ? '' 
`` I 'm sure , '' replied Walter , `` that the ends o ' justice would be meikle better served an ye would hae done wi ' your speering . '' 
`` It is , I must confess , strange that I can not get a direct answer from you , Mr Walkinshaw . 
Mr Threeper began to feel , that , hitherto , he had made no impression ; and forming an opinion of Walter 's shrewdness far beyond what he was led to expect , he stooped , and conferred a short time with Mr Pitwinnoch . 
On resuming his wonted posture , he said , -- `` I do not wish , Mr Walkinshaw , to harass your feelings ; but I am not satisfied with the answer you have given respecting your child ; and I beg you will be a little more explicit . 
A murmur of disappointment ran through all the Court ; and Walter looked around coweringly and afraid . 
`` I 'm wearied , Mr Keelevin , '' said Walter , helplessly , as he looked towards his disconsolate agent . 
`` Mr Walkinshaw , '' said the Sheriff , `` do n't be alarmed -- we are all friendly disposed towards you ; but it is necessary , for the satisfaction of the jury , that you should tell us what you think respecting the child that lives with you . '' 
Walter smiled and said , `` I hae nae objection to converse wi ' a weel-bred gentleman like you ; but that barking terrier in the wig , I can thole him no longer . '' 
One of the jury here interposed , and asked several questions relative to the management of the estate ; by the answers to which it appeared , not only that Walter had never taken any charge whatever , but that he was totally ignorant of business , and even of the most ordinary money transactions . 
The jury then turned round and laid their heads together ; the legal gentlemen spoke across the table , and Walter was evidently alarmed at the bustle . 
-- The Leddy sat in the great chair , at the fire-side , in all the pomp of woe , wiping her eyes , and , ever and anon , giving vent to the deepest soughs of sorrow . 
George and Mr Pitwinnoch sat at the table , taking an inventory of the papers in the scrutoire , and Walter was playfully tickling his adopted daughter on the green before the window , when Mrs Milrookit , with her husband , the Laird of Dirdumwhamle , came to sympathise and condole with their friends , and to ascertain what would be the pecuniary consequences of the decision to them . 
`` O , Mr Walkinshaw , '' replied Gabriel , `` you are no at a ' aware o ' your responsibility , -- you can do no such things . 
For some time after the decision of Walter 's fatuity , nothing important occurred in the history of the Grippy family . 
Mrs Walkinshaw and I have , therefore , come to request that you and the children will spend a few days with us at Kittlestonheugh , and if you do not object , we shall invite our mother and Walter to join you -- you would be surprised to hear how much the poor fellow still dotes on the recollection of your Mary , as Betty Bodle , and bewails , because the law , as he says , has found him guilty of being daft , that he should not be allowed to see her . '' 
She , therefore , readily agreed to spend a few days at the mansion-house , and the children who were present , eagerly expressing a desire to see their uncle Walter , of whose indulgence and good nature they retained the liveliest recollection , it was arranged that , on the Monday following , the carriage should be sent for her and them , and that the Leddy and Walter should also be at Kittlestonheugh to meet them . 
In the meantime , George , with his lady and daughter , had proceeded to his mother 's residence in Virginia Street , to invite her and Walter to join Mrs Charles and the children . 
His intercourse with her , after her domiciliation in the town had been established , was restored to the freest footing ; for although , in the first instance , and in the most vehement manner , she declared , `` He had cheated her , and deprived Walter of his lawful senses ; and that she ne'er would open her lips to him again , '' he had , nevertheless , contrived to make his peace , by sending her presents , and paying her the most marked deference and respect ; lamenting that the hard conditions of his situation as a trustee did not allow him to be in other respects more liberal . 
But still the embers of suspicion were not extinguished ; and when , on this occasion , he told her where he had been , and the immediate object of his visit , she could not refrain from observing , that it was a very wonderful thing . 
Walter , who , during this conversation , was sitting in his father 's easy chair , that had , among other chattels , been removed from Grippy , -- swinging backward and forwards , and occasionally throwing glances towards the visitors , said , -- `` And is my Betty Bodle to be there ? '' 
`` I dinna like that , '' said Walter ; `` she should na hae grown ony bigger , -- for I dinna like big folk . '' 
`` It may be sae , '' replied Walter ; `` but , as I 'm daft , ye ken I dinna understand it ; '' and he again resumed his oscillations . 
After some further conversation on the subject of the proposed visit , in which George arranged that he should call on Monday for his mother and Walter in the carriage , and take them out to the country with him , he took his leave . 
Mrs Charles and her two children were the last that arrived ; and during the drive from Camrachle , both James and Mary repeated many little instances of Walter 's kindness , so lasting are the impressions of affection received in the artless and heedless hours of childhood ; and they again anticipated , from the recollection of his good nature , a long summer day with him of frolic and mirth . 
Walter appeared struck with his look and movement ; and again folding his hands , dropped them between his knees , and hung his head , saying to himself , -- `` But I 'm daft ; naebody cares for me noo ; I 'm a cumberer o ' the ground , and a ' my Betty Bodles are ta'en away . '' 
The accent in which this was expressed touched the natural tenderness of the little girl ; and she went up to him , and said , -- `` Uncle , I 'm your wee Betty Bodle ; what for will ye no speak to me ? '' 
His attention was again roused , and he took her by the hand , and , gently stroking her head , said , `` Ye 're a bonny flower , a lily-like leddy , and leil in the heart and kindly in the e ` e ; but ye 're no my Betty Bodle . '' 
Suddenly , however , something in the cast of her countenance reminded him so strongly of her more childish appearance , that he caught her in his arms , and attempted to dandle her ; but the action was so violent that it frightened the child , and she screamed , and struggling out of his hands , ran away . 
James followed her ; and their attention being soon drawn to other objects , poor Walter was left neglected by all during the remainder of the forenoon . 
At dinner he was brought in and placed at the table , with one of the children on each side ; but he paid them no attention . 
said his mother . 
`` 'Cause she 's like a ' the rest , '' said he sorrowfully . 
But , Geordie , '' he added , turning to his brother , `` What 's the use o ' letting me live in this world , doing nothing , and gude for naething ? '' 
Mrs Charles felt her heart melt within her at the despondency with which this was said , and endeavoured to console him ; he , however , took no notice of her attentions , but sat seemingly absorbed in melancholy , and heedless to the endeavours which even the compassionate children made to induce him to eat . 
`` No , '' said he ; `` I 'll no eat ony mair -- it 's even down wastrie for sic a useless set-by thing as the like o ' me to consume the fruits o ' the earth . 
`` Haud thy tongue , and no fright folk wi ' sic blethers , '' exclaimed his mother ; `` but eat your dinner , and gang out to the green and play wi ' the weans . '' 
George was never more at a loss than for an answer to parry this thrust ; but , fortunately for him , Walter rose and left the room , and , as he had taken no dinner , his mother followed to remonstrate with him against the folly of his conduct . 
Her exhortations and her menaces were , however , equally ineffectual ; the poor natural was not to be moved ; he felt his own despised and humiliated state ; and the expectation which he had formed of the pleasure he was to enjoy , in again being permitted to caress and fondle his Betty Bodle , was so bitterly disappointed , that it cut him to the heart . 
No persuasion , no promise , could entice him to return to the dining-room ; but a settled and rivetted resolution to go back to Glasgow obliged his mother to desist , and allow him to take his own way . 
He accordingly quitted the house , and immediately on arriving at home went to bed . 
Overpowered by the calls of hunger , he was next day allured to take some food ; and from day to day after , for several years , he was in the same manner tempted to eat ; but all power of volition , from the period of the visit , appeared to have become extinct within him . 
His features suffered a melancholy change , and he never spoke -- nor did he seem to recognize any one ; but gradually , as it were , the whole of his mind and intellect ebbed away , leaving scarcely the merest instincts of life . 
We must now , in consequence , return , and resume the narrative from the time that Walter retired from the company ; but , without entering too minutely into the other occurrences of the day , we may be allowed to observe , in the sage words of the Leddy , that the party enjoyed themselves with as much insipidity as is commonly found at the formal feasts of near relations . 
`` Come your ways , Jamie , '' said she , `` and draw in a chair and sit down ; but , afore doing sae , tell the lass to bring ben the treck-pot , '' -- which he accordingly did ; and as soon as the treck-pot , alias tea-pot , was on the board , she opened her trenches . 
In the course , however , of a few minutes , she returned to the charge , but with no better success ; and Walkinshaw left her , half resolved to come to some explanation on the subject with his uncle . 
It happened , however , that this discussion , which we have just related , took place on a Saturday night ; and the weather next day being bright and beautiful , instead of going to his uncle 's at Kittlestonheugh , as he commonly did on Sunday , from the time he had been placed in the counting-house , he rose early , and walked to Camrachle , where he arrived to breakfast , and afterwards accompanied his mother and sister to church . 
For this purpose , on returning to the counting-house , he requested Walkinshaw to come in the evening to Kittlestonheugh , as he had something particular to say . 
A scene so wild , so calm , and yet so troubled and darkened , would , at any time , have heightened the enthusiasm of young Walkinshaw , but the state of his feelings made him more than ordinarily susceptible to the eloquence of its various lights and shadows . 
The uncertainty which wavered in the prospects of his future life , found a mystical reflex in the swift and stormy wrack of the carry , that some unfelt wind was silently urging along the distant horizon . 
The still and stationary objects around -- the protected city and the everlasting hills , seemed to bear an assurance , that , however obscured the complexion of his fortunes might at that moment be , there was still something within himself that ought not to suffer any change , from the evanescent circumstances of another 's frown or favour . 
This confidence in himself , felt perhaps for the first time that evening , gave a degree of vigour and decision to the determination which he had formed ; and by the time he had reached the porch of his uncle 's mansion , his step was firm , his emotions regulated , and a full and manly self-possession had succeeded to the fluctuating feelings , with which he left Glasgow , in so much that even his countenance seemed to have received some new impress , and to have lost the softness of youth , and taken more decidedly the cast and characteristics of manhood . 
Walkinshaw found his uncle alone , who , after some slight inquiries , relative to unimportant matters of business , said to him , -- `` I have been desirous to see you , because I am anxious to make some family arrangements , to which , though I do not anticipate any objection on your part , as they will be highly advantageous to your interests , it is still proper that we should clearly understand each other respecting . 
His uncle was not quite satisfied with this ; the firmness with which it was uttered , and the self-reservation which it implied -- were not propitious to his wishes , but he resumed , -- `` In the course of a short time , you will naturally be looking to me for some establishment in business , and certainly if you conduct yourself as you have hitherto done , it is but right that I should do something for you -- much , however , will depend , as to the extent of what I may do , on the disposition with which you fall in with my views . 
Now , what I wish particularly to say to you is , that having but one child , and my circumstances enabling me to retire from the active management of the house , it is in my power to resign a considerable share in your favour -- and this it is my wish to do in the course of two or three years ; if '' -- and he paused , looking his nephew steadily in the face . 
His uncle was still more damped by this than by the former observation , and he replied peevishly , -- `` I think , young man , considering your destitute circumstances , you might be a little more grateful for my friendship . 
This , though hastily conceived , was not so sharply expressed as to have occasioned any particular sensation ; but the train of Walkinshaw 's reflections , with his suspicion of the object for which he was that evening invited to the country , made him feel it acutely , and his blood mounted at the allusion to his poverty . 
Still without petulance , but in an emphatic manner , he replied , -- `` I have considered your friendship always as disinterested , and as such I have felt and cherished the sense of gratitude which it naturally inspired ; but I frankly confess , that , had I any reason to believe it was less so than I hope it is , I doubt I should be unable to feel exactly as I have hitherto felt . '' 
exclaimed his uncle , at once surprised and apprehensive ; `` what reason have you to suppose that I was not actuated by my regard for you as my nephew ? '' 
Notwithstanding all the preparations which Walkinshaw had made to hear the proposal with firmness , it overcame him like a thunder-clap -- and he sat some time looking quickly from side to side , and unable to answer . 
`` You do not speak , '' said his uncle , and he added , softly and inquisitively , `` Is there any cause to make you averse to Robina ? 
While he was thus earnestly speaking , Walkinshaw recovered his self-possession ; and being averse to give a disagreeable answer , he said , that he could not but duly estimate , to the fullest extent , all the advantages which the connection would insure ; but , said he , `` Have you spoken to Robina herself ? '' 
`` No , '' replied his uncle , with a smile of satisfaction , anticipating from the question something like a disposition to acquiesce in his views . 
Walkinshaw saw the difficulties of his situation . 
He could no longer equivocate with them . 
It was impossible , he felt , to say that he would speak on the subject to Robina , without being guilty of duplicity towards his uncle . 
Besides this , he conceived it would sully the honour and purity of his affection for Ellen Frazer to allow himself to seek any declaration of refusal from Robina , however certain of receiving it . 
His uncle saw his perplexity , and said , -- `` This proposal seems to have very much disconcerted you -- but I will be plain ; for , in a matter on which my heart is so much set , it is prudent to be candid . 
So thought Walkinshaw ; for , in his opinion , the man of sense would at once prefer Ellen . 
`` However , '' continued his uncle , -- `` I will not at present press this matter farther . 
Walkinshaw thought he would be acting unworthy of himself if he allowed his uncle to entertain any hope of his compliance ; and , accordingly , he said , with some degree of agitation , but not so much as materially to affect the force with which he expressed himself , -- `` I will not deny that your information with respect to Miss Frazer is correct ; and the state of our sentiments renders it impossible that I should for a moment suffer you to expect I can ever look on Robina but as my cousin . '' 
`` Well , well , James , '' interrupted his uncle , -- `` I know all that ; and I calculated on hearing as much , and even more ; but take time to reflect on what I have proposed ; and I shall be perfectly content to see the result in your actions . 
His uncle laughed , and rubbed his hands , exceedingly amused at this rhapsody , and said , with the most provoking coolness , -- `` I shall not increase your flame by stirring the fire -- you are still but a youth -- and it is very natural that you should have a love fit -- all , therefore , that I mean to say at present is , take time -- consider -- reflect on the fortune you may obtain , and contrast it with the penury and dependence to which your father and mother exposed themselves by the rash indulgence of an inconsiderate attachment . '' 
said his uncle coldly ; `` and pray what is it ? '' 
`` To quit Glasgow ; to forego all the pecuniary advantages that I may derive from my connection with you -- if '' -- and he made a full stop and looked his uncle severely in the face , -- `` if , '' he resumed , `` your kindness was dictated with a view to this proposal . '' 
A short silence ensued , in which Walkinshaw still kept his eye brightly and keenly fixed on his uncle 's face ; but the Laird was too much a man of the world not to be able to endure this scrutiny . 
Walkinshaw at the same moment also took his hat , and , rushing towards the door , quitted the house ; but in turning suddenly round the corner , he ran against Robina , who , having some idea of the object of his visit , had been listening at the window to their conversation . 
The agitation in which Walkinshaw was at the moment when he encountered Robina , prevented him from being surprised at meeting her , and also from suspecting the cause which had taken her to that particular place so late in the evening . 
This was said in a manner that instantly recalled Walkinshaw to his senses . 
The deep and cunning character of his cousin he had often before remarked -- with , we may say plainly , aversion -- and he detected at once in the hollow and sonorous affectation of sympathy with which her voice was tuned , particularly in the latter clause of the sentence , the insincerity and hypocrisy of her conduct . 
-- He did not , however , suspect that she had been playing the eaves-dropper ; and , therefore , still tempered with moderation his expression of the sentiments she was so ingeniously leading him on to declare . 
`` No , '' said he calmly , `` nothing has passed between your father and me that you may not know , but it will come more properly from him , for it concerns you , and in a manner that I can never take interest or part in . '' 
replied he . 
exclaimed Walkinshaw , raising his clenched hands in a transport to the skies . 
`` Because , '' replied he solemnly , `` interest seems the everlasting consideration of our family -- interest disinherited my father -- interest made my uncle Walter consign my mother to poverty -- interest proved the poor repentant wretch insane -- interest claims the extinction of all I hold most precious in life , -- and interest would make me baser than the most sordid of all our sordid race . '' 
But we can not , with any regard to the fidelity of circumstantial history , omit to relate what passed in young Walkinshaw 's bosom , after he parted from his cousin . 
-- To render it in some degree picturesque , we might describe his appearance ; but when we spoke of him as a handsome manly youth for his inches and his eild , we said perhaps as much as we could well say upon that head , unless we were to paint the colour and fashion of his clothes , -- a task in which we have no particular relish ; -- and , therefore , we may just briefly mention , that they were in the style of the sprucest clerks of Glasgow ; and every body knows , that if the bucks of the Trongate would only button their coats , they might pass for gentlemen of as good blood and breeding as the best in Bond Street . 
But , even though Walkinshaw had been in the practice of buttoning his , he was that night in no condition to think of it . 
His whole bosom was as a flaming furnace -- raging as fiercely as those of the Muirkirk Iron Works that served to illuminate his path . 
He felt as if he had been held in a state of degradation ; and had been regarded as so destitute of all the honourable qualities of a young man , that he would not scruple to barter himself in the most sordid manner . 
Awa wi ' you , and show how weel ye hae come to years o ' discretion , by singing as ye gang , -- Notwithstanding the stern mood that Walkinshaw was in , this latter sally of his grandmother 's eccentric humour compelled him to laugh , and he said gaily , `` But I shall be none the worse of a little supper before I set out . 
The old Lady , supposing that she had effectually brought him , as she said , round to himself , cheerfully acquiesced ; but she was not a little disappointed , when , after some light and ludicrous conversation on general topics , he still so persisted either to remain in the house or to proceed to his mother 's , that she found herself obliged to order a bed to be prepared for him -- at the same time she continued to express her confidence , that he would be in a more docile humour next morning . 
Sometimes he reflected on the proposition with all the coolness that the Laird himself could have desired ; but still and anon the centripetal movement of the thoughts and feelings which generated this prudence was suddenly arrested before they had gravitated into any thing like resolution , and then he was thrown as wild and as wide from the object of his uncle 's solicitude as ever . 
In consequence of these sympathetic circumstances , before Walkinshaw reached Camrachle , his heart was almost as heavy as his limbs were tired . 
His mother , when she saw him pass the parlour window , as he approached the door , was surprised at his appearance , and suffered something like a shock of fear when she perceived the dulness of his eye and the dejection of his features . 
But , instead of replying , he walked in , and seated himself at the fireside , complaining of his cold and uncomfortable walk , and the heaviness of the road . 
His sister was preparing breakfast , and happening not to be in the room , his mother repeated her anxious inquiries with an accent of more earnest solicitude . 
`` I fear , '' said Walkinshaw , `` that I am only come to distress you ; '' and he then briefly recapitulated what had passed between himself and his uncle respecting Robina . 
But a sentiment of tenderness for his mother 's anxieties , blended with a wish to save her from the disagreeable sensation with which he knew his determination to quit Glasgow would affect her , made him suppress the communication that he had come expressly to make . 
The moment , however , that Walkinshaw , encouraged by the seeming slightness of her regret at his declamations against the match , proceeded to a fuller disclosure of his sentiments , and to intimate his resolution to go abroad , her maternal fears were startled , and she was plunged into the profoundest sorrow . 
That look was ever irresistible with her children : in their very childhood it brought them , with all their artless and innocent caresses , to her bosom ; and , on this occasion , it so penetrated the very core of Walkinshaw 's heart , that he took her by the hand and burst into tears . 
In this predicament stood young Walkinshaw ; and at the moment when he took his mother by the hand , the claims of filial duty were undoubtedly preferred to the wishes of love . 
`` I am , '' said he , `` at your disposal , mother -- do with me as you think fit . 
`` I wish that there was a war , '' said Walkinshaw with such sincere simplicity , that even his mother could scarcely refrain from smiling . 
His mother observed the severity of her aspect , and thought it as well at once to mention what had happened . 
Mrs Eadie listened to the recital of his uncle 's proposal , and his resolution to go abroad , with a degree of juridical serenity , that lent almost as much solemnity to her appearance as it derived dignity from her august form ; and , when Mrs Walkinshaw concluded , she said , -- `` We have foreseen all this -- and I am only surprised that now , when it has come to pass , it should affect you so much . 
Although Walkinshaw was familiar with the occasional gleams of the sybiline pretensions of Mrs Eadie , and always treated them with reverence , he could not resist from smiling at the earnestness with which she delivered her prediction , saying , `` But I do not see in what way the dream has any thing to do with my case . '' 
This afforded a ray of hope to Walkinshaw , of which he had never entertained the slightest notion , and it also , in some degree , lightened the spirits of his mother . 
`` Mr Walkinshaw , '' said she , after eyeing him inquisitively for two or three seconds , `` before you go to Mrs Charles , I would speak with you . '' 
Mr Walkinshaw bowed , thereby intimating his acquiescence ; and she walked on towards the manse with slow steps and a majestic altitude , followed by the visitor in silence . 
Mr Walkinshaw , I am glad that we have met , before you entered yon unhappy house . 
`` Mr Walkinshaw , '' said she , after another long pause , and a keen and suspicious scrutiny of his face -- `` It has always been reported , that some of my mother 's family possessed the gift of a discerning spirit . 
In saying this , he turned round , and was moving to go away , when the lady , throwing back her shawl , magnificently raised her hand , and took hold of him by the arm -- `` Stop , Mr Walkinshaw , this is a place of truth -- There is no deceit in death and the grave -- Life and the living may impose upon us ; but here , where we stand , among the sincere -- the dead -- I tell you , and your heart , Sir , knows that what I tell you is true , there is no affection -- no love for your nephew -- nor respect for his mother , in the undivulged motives of that seeming kindness with which you are , shall I say plainly , seeking their ruin ? '' 
While they were thus speaking Mr Walkinshaw came in , and the first words he said , before taking a seat , were , -- `` Is the minister 's wife in her right mind ? 
At this crisis the door was opened , and Mr Eadie , the minister , came in , by which occurrence the conversation was interrupted , and the vehemence of Mr Walkinshaw was allowed to subside during the interchange of the common reciprocities of the morning . 
`` I am much grieved , '' Mr Walkinshaw . 
Mr Walkinshaw thought Mr Eadie a most sensible man , and could not but express his confidence , that , when the boy came to see how much all his best friends condemned his conduct , and were so solicitous for his compliance , he would repent his precipitation . 
`` The cases , Mr Walkinshaw , are not similar . 
`` I beg your pardon , Mr Walkinshaw , '' said the worthy Presbyter , disturbed at the thought of being so unceremonious ; `` I am much interested in your nephew -- I feel greatly for his present unhappy situation . 
She , however , was the first who recovered her self-possession ; and , before Mr Walkinshaw was announced , she was seated in her accustomed elbow chair with a volume of Mathew Henry 's Commentary on her lap , and her spectacles on her nose , as if she had been piously reading . 
Walkinshaw himself was still more delighted with the event than his mother . 
He laughed at the dexterity with which his grandmother had brought it about ; and , exulting in the feeling of liberty which it gave to himself , he exclaimed , `` We shall now see whether , indeed , my uncle was actuated towards me by the affection he professed , or by some motive of which the springs are not yet discovered . '' 
The minister , who was present at this sally , said little ; but he agreed with his young friend , that the event would soon put his uncle 's affections to the test . 
`` I can not explain to myself , '' was his only observation , `` why we should all so unaccountably distrust the professions of your uncle , and suppose , with so little reason , in truth against the evidence of facts , that he is not actuated by the purest and kindest motives . '' 
Mr Frazer not only promised his influence , declaring that he considered himself as the agent of the family interests , but said , that he had no doubt of procuring at once the cadetcy , stating , at the same time , that the progress and complexion of the French Revolution rendered it probable that Government would find it expedient to augment the army ; in which case , a commission for young Walkinshaw would be readily obtained ; and he concluded with expressions of his sorrow at hearing his kinswoman had of late been so unwell , urging her to visit him at Glengael Castle , to which the family was on the point of removing for the summer , and where her native air might , perhaps , essentially contribute to her recovery . 
`` Yes , '' said she , after having read the letter aloud , and congratulated Walkinshaw on the prospect which had opened . 
`` I was happy with you , '' was her impressive answer . 
In order , however , to set her off in a new direction , he said , -- `` But , when I get my appointment , I hope you 'll give me something to buy a sword , which is the true bride o ' a soldier . '' 
Mrs Charles then told him that , in consequence of the very encouraging letter from Mr Frazer , Walkinshaw had gone to mention to his father 's old friend , who had the vessel fitting out for New York , the change that had taken place in his destination , and to solicit a loan to help his outfit . 
Her brother-in-law bit his lips at this information . 
He had obtained no little reputation among his friends for the friendship which he had shown to his unfortunate brother 's family ; and all those who knew his wish to accomplish a match between James and his daughter , sympathised in sincerity with his disappointment . 
Mr Walkinshaw had not left Camrachle many minutes when his nephew appeared . 
During his walk back to Camrachle , his heart was alternately sick and saucy , depressed and proud . 
He could not conceive how he had been so deluded , as to suppose that he had any right to expect friendship from the gentleman he had applied to . 
He felt that in so doing he acted with the greenness of a boy , and he was mortified at his own softness . 
Had there been any reciprocity of obligations between his father and the gentleman , the case would have been different . 
`` Had they been for forty or fifty years , '' thought he , `` in the mutual interchange of mercantile dependance , then perhaps I might have had some claim , and , no doubt , it would have been answered , but I was a fool to mistake civilities for friendship . '' 
Perhaps , however , had the case been even as strong as he put it , he might still have found himself quite as much deceived . 
`` As to making any appeal to my uncle , that was none of his business , '' said he to himself . 
Walkinshaw rejoicing in the good fortune that had so soon restored the alacrity of his spirits -- so soon wiped away the corrosive damp of disappointment from its brightness -- did not remain long with his mother and sister , but hastened to communicate the inspiring tidings to Ellen Frazer . 
She was standing on the green in front of the manse , when she saw him coming bounding towards her , waving his hat in triumph and exultation , and she put on a grave face , and looked so rebukingly , that he halted abruptly , and said -- `` What 's the matter ? '' 
Walkinshaw felt this pierce deeper than it was intended to do , and he reddened exceedingly , as he said , awkwardly . 
Walkinshaw hung his head , still more and more confused . 
There was too much truth in the remark not to be felt as a just reproach ; and , moreover , he thought it somewhat hard , as his folly had been on her account , that she should so taunt him . 
-- The result , however , was , that , when Ellen returned into the manse , after parting from Walkinshaw , her beautiful eyes looked red and watery , and two huge tears tumbled out of them , when she told her aunt that he intended to set off for Glengael in the course of two or three days . 
Next day Walkinshaw found himself constrained , by many motives , to go into Glasgow , in order to thank his uncle for the liberality of his offer , and , in accepting it , to ask pardon for the rudeness of his behaviour . 
His reception in the counting-house was all he could have wished ; it was even more cordial than the occasion required , and the cheque given , as the realization of the promise , considerably exceeded the necessary amount . 
Emboldened by so much kindness , Walkinshaw , who felt for his cousins , and really sympathised with the Leddy under the burden of expence which she had brought upon herself , ventured to intercede in their behalf , and he was gratified with his uncle 's answer . 
Walkinshaw believed , when he heard this , that he possessed no faculty whatever to penetrate the depths of character , so bright and shining did all the virtues of his uncle at that moment appear ; -- virtues of which , a month before , he did not conceive he possessed a single spark . 
It may , therefore , be easily imagined , that he hastened with light steps and long strides towards his grandmother 's house , to communicate the generous tidings . 
But , on reaching the door , he met the old lady , wrapped up , as it seemed , for a journey , with her maid , coming out , carrying a small trunk under her arm . 
On seeing him , she made a movement to return ; but , suddenly recollecting herself , she said , -- `` Jamie , I hae nae time , for I 'm gaun to catch the Greenock flying coach at the Black Bull , and ye can come wi ' me . '' 
cried he , surprised at this intelligence and sudden movement . 
His grandmother took hold of him by the arm , and giving it an indescribable squeeze of exultation , said , -- `` I 'll tell you , it 's just a sport . 
Walkinshaw , though really shocked , he could not tell why , was yet so tickled by the Leddy 's adroitness , that he laughed most immoderately , and was unable for some time in consequence to communicate the message , of which he was the joyous bearer ; but when he told her , she exclaimed , -- `` Na , if that 's the turn things hae ta'en , I 'll defer my visit to Miss Jenny for the present ; so we 'll return back . 
Walkinshaw then told her not only what his uncle had done , but with the ardour in which the free heart of youth delights to speak of favours , he recapitulated all the kind and friendly things that had been said to him . 
By this time they had returned to the house , and the maid having unlocked the door , and carried in the trunk , Walkinshaw followed his grandmother into the parlour , with the view of enjoying what she herself called , the observes of her phlosification ; but the moment she had taken her seat , instead of resuming the wonted strain of her jocular garrulity , she began to sigh deeply , and weep bitterly , a thing which he never saw her do before , but in a way that seldom failed to amuse him ; on this occasion , however , her emotion was unaffected , and it moved him to pity her . 
said he , kindly ; -- she did not , however , make any answer for some time , but at last she said , -- `` Thou 's gaun awa to face thy faes , -- as the sang sings , ` far far frae me and Logan braes , ' -- and I am an aged person , and may ne'er see thee again ; and I am wae to let thee gang , for though thou was ay o ' a nature that had nae right reverence for me , a deevil 's buckie , my heart has ay warm ' t to thee mair than to a ' the lave o ' my grandchildren ; but it 's no in my power to do for thee as thy uncle has done , though it 's well known to every one that kens me , that I hae a most generous heart , -- far mair than e'er he had , -- and I would na part wi ' thee without hanselling thy knapsack . 
Walkinshaw was petrified , but did as he was desired ; and , having given her the pocket-book , sewed by his aunt , Mrs Milrookit , at the boarding-school , she took several of Robin 's promissory-notes out , and looking them over , presented him with one for fifty pounds . 
So extraordinary and unlooked-for an instance of liberality on the part of his grandmother , together with the unfeigned feeling by which she was actuated , quite overwhelmed Walkinshaw , and he stood holding the bill in his hand , unable to speak . 
To the young men belonging to the hamlet , who had grown up with Walkinshaw , it was an era of great importance ; and some of them doubted whether he ought not to have beaten up for recruits in a neighbourhood where he was known rather than in the Highlands . 
He seemed as if he could not give his pupil advice enough , and Walkinshaw thought he had never before been so tiresome . 
`` It was his wraith , '' said Mrs Eadie . 
and next day came Walkinshaw from Glasgow with the news of the happy separation from his uncle . 
The result of Mr Eadie 's reflections was a proposition to Walkinshaw to delay his journey for a day or two , until Mrs Eadie could be prepared to accompany him ; but , when the subject was mentioned to her , she declared the most decided determination not to trouble the tide of his fortune by any interposition of hers which had been full of disappointments and sorrows . 
From whatever sentiment this feeling arose , it was undoubtedly dictated by magnanimity ; for it implied a sense of sacrifice on her part ; nevertheless , it was arranged , that , although Walkinshaw should set out at the time originally fixed , Mrs Eadie , accompanied by Ellen Frazer , should follow him to Glengael as soon after as possible . 
Our immediate duty is to follow the steps of the Laird 's nephew ; and without entering upon any unnecessary details , -- our readers , we trust , have remarked , that we entertain a most commendable abhorrence of all circumstantiality , -- we shall allow Allan M'Lean and his passengers to go where it pleased themselves , while we return to Camrachle ; not that we have much more to say respecting what passed there , than that Walkinshaw , as had been previously arranged , set out alone for Glengael Castle , in Inverness-shire ; the parting from his mother and sister being considerably alleviated by the reflection , that Ellen Frazer , in attendance on Mrs Eadie , was soon to follow him . 
Why this should have given him any particular pleasure , we can not understand ; but , as the young man , to speak prosaically , was in love , possibly there are some juvenile persons capable of entering into his feelings . 
In the summer of the year 1793 , we have some reason to believe that the rugging and riving times of antiquity were so well over in the north of Scotland , that , not only might any one of his Majesty 's subalterns travel there on the recruiting service , but even any spinster , not less than threescore , without let , hindrance , or molestation , to say nothing of personal violence ; we shall not , therefore , attempt to seduce the tears of our fair readers , with a sentimental description of the incidents which befell our friend Walkinshaw , in his journey from Camrachle to Glengael , except to mention , in a parenthetical way , that , when he alighted from the Edinburgh coach at the canny twa and twae toun of Aberdeenawa , he had some doubt if the inhabitants spoke any Christian language . 
The appearance and the natural joyous spirits of Walkinshaw endeared him to the families at the houses where he stopped on his way to Glengael , and his journey was , in consequence , longer and happier than he expected . 
On the afternoon of the ninth day after leaving Aberdeen , he arrived at the entrance of the rugged valley , in which the residence of Mr Frazer was situated . 
The rocks became again shaggy with intermingled heath and brambles , and the stately crimson foxglove , in full blossom , rose so thickly along the sides of the mountains , that Walkinshaw , unconscious that it was from the effect of their appearance , began to dream in his reverie of guarded passes , and bloody battles , and picquets of red-coated soldiers bivouacking on the hills . 
But his attention was soon roused from these heroical imaginings by a sudden turn of the road , laying open before him the glassy expanse of an extensive lake , and on the summit of a lofty rocky peninsula , which projected far into its bosom , the walls and turrets of Glengael . 
From the desolate contrast of the pass he had travelled , it seemed to him that he had never beheld a landscape so romantic and beautiful . 
As Mr Eadie found he could not conveniently get away from his parish , and the health of his lady requiring that she should travel by easy stages , it was arranged , after Walkinshaw 's departure , that his sister should take the spare corner of the carriage . 
Accordingly , on the day following his arrival at Glengael , they all made their appearance at the castle . 
`` I have seen him , '' she added ; `` and my time can not now be long . '' 
In the meantime , Glengael being informed of the attachment between Walkinshaw and Ellen , had espoused his interests with great ardour ; and French Frazer , as the stranger was called , also raising men for promotion , the castle became a scene of so much bustle as materially to disturb the shattered nerves of the invalid . 
Twice have I witnessed the same apparition of his wraith , and I know from the sign , that either his time is not to be long , or to-morrow we shall hear strange tidings . '' 
It was useless to reason or to argue with her sublime and incomprehensible pretensions ; but as it was deemed not prudent to leave her alone , Glengael and Mrs Frazer agreed to remain at Wick , while French Frazer and the young ladies , with Walkinshaw and his sister , went to inspect the ruins of Girnigo , and the rocks , caverns , and precipices of Noss-head . 
To none of the party was the detention so irksome as to Mr Walkinshaw , for , independent of the cares of his mercantile concerns , his fancy was running on Ellen Frazer , and he was resolved , as soon as he returned to the Clyde , to sound her father with a proposal , to solicit her for his second wife . 
Mr Walkinshaw then being rendered weary of the Orkneys , and , perhaps , also of the joviality of his companions , by the mingled reflections of business , and the tender intention of speedily taking a second wife , resolved , rather than again incur the uncertainties of the winds and waves , to leave the pilot-boat at Kirkwall , and embark for Thurso , in order to return home over land ; a vessel belonging to that port being then wind-bound in the bay . 
Mr Walkinshaw roused himself , and , looking round , was surprised to see the sails taken in ; and , casting his eyes to leeward , beheld , with a strong emotion of consternation , the ocean boiling with tremendous violence , and the spindrift rising like steam . 
said he inquiringly to the master . 
`` And if we do not , '' said Mr Walkinshaw , `` what 's to be done ? '' 
`` This is terrible work , Captain , '' said Mr Walkinshaw . 
`` It is , '' was all the answer he received . 
Mr Walkinshaw heard him , and for a moment was petrified , for the command was not given with insolence , but solemnity . 
cried Mr Walkinshaw to one of the sailors , who was holding by the shrouds . 
said Mr Walkinshaw , catching something like hope and fortitude from the sedate courage of the sailor . 
Another cry of `` Hold fast '' prepared him for a second breach of the sea , and he threw himself on the deck , and took hold of a ring-bolt , in which situation he continued , though the vessel rose to the wave . 
Walkinshaw , without speaking , took the telescope from his sister , who went and sat down in silence beside Ellen . 
said Walkinshaw , and he took his sister and Ellen by the hands . 
The roar with which they broke as they hurled by the cliff , where the party were standing , drew the attention of Walkinshaw even from Ellen ; and , to his surprise , he saw that the waves had , in their sweep , drawn the vessel into the bay , and that she was coming driving along the side of the precipice , and , if not dashed in pieces before , would pass within a few yards of where they stood . 
But the attention of his admiring spectators was suddenly drawn from him to the gentleman . 
Mr Walkinshaw , on raising his head to look up , saw and recognized them , and , wildly starting from the deck , shook his uplifted hands with a hideous and terrific frenzy . 
Before their arrival the news of the loss of Mr Walkinshaw had reached the city , and Dirdumwhamle and his son were as busy , as heirs and executors could well be , in taking possession of his fortune , which , besides the estate of Kittlestonheugh , greatly exceeded their most sanguine expectations . 
It was , however , agreed , as the world , as well as themselves , had uniformly understood and believed that old Grippy had disinherited his eldest son , to say nothing about this important discovery . 
To Walkinshaw 's mother the loss of her brother-in-law was a severe misfortune , for with him perished her annuity of fifty pounds a-year . 
She entertained , however , a hope that Robina would still continue it ; but the feelings arising from the consciousness of an unjust possession of the estate , operated on the mind of Milrookit in such a way , as to make him suddenly become wholly under the influence of avarice . 
Every necessary expense was grudged ; his wife , notwithstanding the wealth she had brought him , was not allowed to enjoy a guinea ; in a word , from the day in which Pitwinnoch informed him that she had no right to the property , he was devoured , in the most singular manner , with the most miserly passions and fears . 
It happened that the youth employed in this business was a little acquainted with the Leddy , and knowing her whimsical humour , when he carried it home he stopped , and fell into conversation with her about Walkinshaw , whom he knew . 
His opinion at the moment was , that Robina 's father had left a will , making some liberal provision for his sister-in-law 's family ; and that Milrookit was anxious to stand on such terms with his connections , as would prevent any of them , now that Walkinshaw had left Glasgow , from inquiring too anxiously into the state of his father-in-law 's affairs . 
But , without expressing what was passing in his mind , he so managed the conversation as to draw out the several opinions of his legal brethren . 
Some of them coincided with his own . 
He also mentioned something of what had passed with Mr Pilledge , expressing his apprehensions , from what he knew of Pitwinnoch , Milrookit 's man of business , in Glasgow , that Pilledge , with his assistance , might involve the heir in expensive litigation . 
`` Certainly , Mem , '' replied the Writer to the Signet ; `` nothing is more clear than that your husband intended the estate to go , in the first instance , to the heirs-male of his sons ; first to those of Walter , the second son ; and failing them , to those of George , the third son ; and failing them , then to go back to the heirs-male of Charles , the eldest son ; and failing them , to the heirs-general of Margaret , your daughter . 
The lawyer began to quake for his client as the Leddy proceeded , -- `` For ye ken that the deed of entail was first on Walter , the second son ; and , failing his heirs-male , then on George and his heirs-male ; and , failing them , then it went back to Charles the eldest son , and to his heirs-male ; if there 's law in the land , his only son ought to be an heir-male , afore Milrookit 's wife that 's but an only dochter . '' 
Milrookit trembled as he read , -- Pitwinnoch looked aghast , for he perceived that his own conduct in the transaction might be sifted ; and Pilledge , foreseeing there would be no use for him , quietly took his hat and slipped away , leaving them to their own meditations . 
He is quite satisfied that his cousin , Mr Walkinshaw , is the true heir of entail , and is prepared to resign the estate at once . '' 
In the first place , then , Walkinshaw , immediately after the receipt of Frazer 's letter , acquainting him with the discovery of the provisions of the deed , returned to Edinburgh , where he arrived on the third day after his friend had heard from Whitteret , the Glasgow writer , that Milrookit , without objection , agreed to surrender the estate . 
The result of which communication was an immediate and formal declaration from Walkinshaw of his attachment to Ellen , and a cheerful consent from her father , that their marriage , as soon as the necessary preparations could be made , should be celebrated at Glengael . 
Upon French Frazer the good fortune of his brother officer was no less decisive , for any scruple that he might have felt in his attachment to Mary , on account of his own circumstances , was removed by an assurance from Walkinshaw that he would , as soon as possible , make a liberal provision both for her and his mother ; and in the same letrer which Walkinshaw wrote home on his return to Edinburgh , and in which he spoke of his own marriage , he entreated his mother 's consent that Mary should accept the hand of Frazer . 
Marriage feasts , we are creditably informed , as the Leddy would have said , are of greater antiquity than funerals ; and those with which the weddings of Walkinshaw and his sister were celebrated , lacked nothing of the customary festivities . 
During this part of the scene we happened inadvertently to look towards Walkinshaw , and were not a little shocked to observe a degree of levity sparkling in his eyes , quite unbecoming such a sorrowful occasion ; and still more distressed were we at the irreverence with which , almost in actual and evident laughter , he inquired at Dirdumwhamle the date of the paper . 
It was found to have been made several years before , soon after the decease of poor Walter . 
The tears of the Lady of Dirdumwhamle were instantaneously dried up , and the most sensitive of Lairds himself appeared very much surprised ; while , with some vibrating accent in his voice , he requested that this new last will and testament might be read . 
Sorry are we to say it , that , in doing so , Walkinshaw was so little affected , that he even chuckled while he read . 
This was , no doubt , owing to the little cause he had to grieve , a legacy of five guineas , to buy a ring , being all that the Leddy had bequeathed to him . 
For it began by declaring , that , having taken it into her most serious consideration , by and with the advice of her private counsel , Mr Frazer of Glengael , whom she appointed executor , she had resolved to make her last will and testament ; and after other formalities , couched somewhat in the same strain , she bequeathed sundry legacies to her different grandchildren , -- first , as we have said , five guineas , as a token of her particular love , to Walkinshaw , he standing in no need of any farther legacy , and being , over and moreover , indebted to her sagacity for the recovery of his estate . 
Such is the natural conclusion of our story ; but perhaps it is expected that we should say something of the subsequent history of Walkinshaw , especially as his wife has brought him nine sons , -- `` all male heirs , '' as Dirdumwhamle often says with a sigh , when he thinks of his son and Robina having only added daughters to the increasing population of the kingdom . 
But Walkinshaw 's career as a soldier belongs to a more splendid theme , which , as soon as ever we receive a proper hint to do so , with ten thousand pounds to account , we propose to undertake , for he was present at the most splendid achievements of the late universal war . 
His early campaigns were not , however , brilliant ; but , in common with all his companions in arms during the first years of that mighty contest , he still felt , under the repulses of many disasters , that the indisputable heroism of the British spirit was never impaired , and that they were still destined to vindicate their ancient superiority over France . 
These heroic breathings do not , however , belong to our domestic story ; and , therefore , all we have to add is , that , as often as he revisited his patrimonial home on leave of absence , he found the dinnering of his friends in the royal city almost as hard work as the dragooning of his foes . 
Since the peace , now that he is finally settled at Kittlestonheugh with all his blushing honours thick upon him , the Lord Provost and Magistrates have never omitted any opportunity in their power of treating him with all that distinction for which , as a corporation , they are so deservedly celebrated . 
