`` Puffer Hopkins , '' replied the young Politician , surveying more closely his whimsical companion . 
The singularity and whim of the little old gentleman 's demeanor was shown , in his shambling up side-ways toward Puffer whenever he addressed him , and looking up timidly , first with the doubtful eye , as if sounding his way , and then with the sound one ; fortifying himself , from time to time , from an immense snuff-box , which he carried awkwardly in his left hand . 
`` Many a good speech have I heard , '' he at length said , contemplating Puffer Hopkins with melancholy regard , `` whose deliverer now lies under the tombstone . 
`` I am not too sure of that , '' answered Puffer Hopkins , `` for I have a dim remembrance of a death that touched me nearly , long ago ; whose death I can not say , but a vision , away off in past times -- of a darkened house -- a solemn train issuing forth , with one figure staggering into the funeral coach , drunk with excess of grief -- the heavy roll of wheels -- and many tears and lamentations in the small household . '' 
While he delivered this , Hobbleshank looked earnestly in his face , as if he discovered in what he said a meaning deeper than the words . 
At this there was a long silence , which Puffer Hopkins at length attempted to break , by stating to his companion the character in which he had appeared that night , for the first time , at Fogfire Hall . 
`` I know , '' said Hobbleshank , pushing his open palm toward Puffer Hopkins , `` Do ` nt say a word : -- I know all about it . 
`` A mere ` prentice at the business I confess myself , '' answered Puffer . 
`` I wish you would bear in mind , too , '' continued his whimsical adviser , `` when you address a mixed audience , and have occasion to speak of the majesty of the people , that the established rule is , not to stare at any individual dirty face in the middle of the crowd , but to look away off , beyond the crowd entirely ; as if you discovered what you 're speaking about in some remote suburb with which they have nothing to do . 
`` I think I do , '' replied Puffer : `` But is ` nt there generally some placid gentleman or other , who comes to the meeting early , and plants himself in front of the platform at a proper distance , with the praiseworthy purpose of having the speaker lay out all his strength in gazing at him , and moving his bowels and understanding ? 
By the time Hobbleshank had arrived at this division of his subject , he had reached -- working himself along by degrees -- the extremity of the stall , and was standing on his toes , with his goggle eyes glaring over the partition at a melancholy personage -- the very counterpart of his description -- who sate on a stool by the fire , with his piece of hat drawn over his eyes , with one leg on the ground , and the other thrust under him on the seat . 
`` That 's one of them , '' whispered Hobbleshank , casting an eye down at Puffer , and pointing with his finger over the partition . 
Puffer Hopkins leaned out of the stall , and stretching himself forward , contemplated the object to which Hobbleshank directed him ; but instantly drew back , and seizing his companion by the skirts , pulled him , almost by main force , into his seat . 
he said , as he bent forward and placed his mouth at the ear of Hobbleshank , `` That 's my poor neighbor , Fob , the tailor . '' 
These brief words were delivered in such a way as if Puffer Hopkins expected their mere utterance would silence his companion , and cause an entire revolution in the feelings with which he had regarded the sorry creature before the pie-house fire . 
he echoed , `` well , is that all ? '' 
answered Hopkins . 
`` Nothing more , '' replied Puffer Hopkins . 
These questions were asked and answered , in tones that brought the conversation between them to a dead pause ; at which it staid for a good many minutes : when Puffer Hopkins , rousing a little , asked `` If that was ` nt enough ? '' 
`` I was through my speech , '' answered Puffer Hopkins , `` and wished to get out of sight at once . '' 
exclaimed his companion , as if unconscious of Puffer 's presence , `` What a fool the boy is . 
`` I 'll endeavor to practice this next time , '' said Puffer , meekly . 
`` I do n't know why I had my hair cut this way , '' answered Puffer , `` but I wore the coat , because it was large in the sleeves , and allowed a wide spread of the arms when I came to the rainbow thus , '' and he expanded his arms after the manner of an arch , as he had , indeed , endeavored to do in the delivery of his speech , but was prevented , at the time , from the embarrassment of having to employ his handkerchief in clearing the sweet which oozed out in liquid drops on his forehead . 
`` But as to the orator 's position , '' asked Puffer , `` Do you think a public speaker is ever justifiable in standing on his toes ? '' 
As Hobbleshank advanced in his discourse , he had illustrated its various topics by actual accompaniments : mounting first on his legs , then the bench , and ended by leaping upon the table , where he stood brandishing hisb roken hat , and shouting vociferously for more oysters . 
No reply to this uproarious summons appearing , Hobbleshank thrust his head between the curtains , discovered that the tailor had vanished , and that the tall man was sitting against the chimney-piece with his legs stretched upon a stool , and sound asleep . 
As it had worn far into the heart of the night , Puffer Hopkins could not gainsay the postulate , and followed on . 
p264-029 He then told Hopkins where he could leave word for him , in case he should at any time require advice or assistance ; said that , if he chose , he might be at Barrell 's oyster-house the next evening , and he would wait upon him to one of these assemblages ; and before Puffer Hopkins could answer one way or the other , he had disappeared from his side , and vanishing into a bye-street , was soon lost in the darkness . 
It can not be matter of wonder that Puffer made his way home with a head considerably bewildered and unsettled by the occurrences of the night . 
The great popular gathering ; his own first speech ; the thundering and tumultuous applause ; and , what fastened itself with peculiar force upon his imagination , the voice and figure of the little old man , uttering pensive truths or shrewd observations , with the kindly interest he had expressed in himself from the first moment -- all crowded upon him , and made him feel that he was in an actual world , where , if he would but bestir himself , fortune might prove his friend . 
The result of the whole was , that he determined to prosecute his career : and in furtherance of that determination , he resolved to meet Hobbleshank again ; the last image that his mind distinctly recognized , ere it yielded to sleep , being that of the little paralytic , passing and repassing , at times dissolved in tears , and again , filling his chamber with the echoes of smothered laughter ! 
Punctual to his appointment with Hobbleshank , Puffer Hopkins , at a few minutes of seven o'clock the next evening , directed his steps towards Barrell 's oyster-house , where in due time he arrived , and made discovery of one of the most singular little oyster-houses that could be found throughout the whole of oyster-eating Christendom . 
A second decrease in the size of shell-fish , the opening of a street that carried travel in another direction , and Barrell was forced into that last stronghold of the oyster-man , the cellar ; and there it was that Puffer Hopkins now found him , standing on one leg of his own and one that came out of a fine piece of oak woods at West Farms , a coarse white apron about his waist and a salamander in his countenance , declaring stoutly to a customer that although he had roughed it against the tide all his life , he was determined to have his own way in dying . 
Being questioned as to the way to which he alluded , he proceeded to explain , that whenever he felt the approaches of death he should hire a White-haller to pull him over to Staten Island , cast anchor just above the richest bed in the shore , and giving one good deep plunge , said Jarve Barrell , I 'll carry myself to the bottom , and stretching myself out on a picked oyster-bed , make up my mind to die ; so with the tide rippling over my head , and a dozen or more pretty mermaids standing about me , I 'll give up the ghost , and hold myself entitled to haunt the Bay and Island ever after , with a spruce ruffle of sea-weeds in my bosom . 
Puffer Hopkins was well pleased with the joyous spirit of the decayed oyster-man , but had scarcely heard him through when he detected a quick clatter upon the steps , and turning , he discovered his singular companion of the previous night hurrying down . 
In a moment he had Puffer by the hand , and hailed his appearance with a sort of wondering enthusiasm as if it gave him great joy to find him there and to take him again in a friendly grasp . 
This they were not long in finding , for Hobbleshank guiding Puffer rapidly through sundry dark alleys and bye-ways , for which he seemed to have a peculiar inclination , they reached a building in front of which a dusky lamp was glimmering , ascended two flights of stairs , and knocked at a low dingy door . 
The door was opened from within , and Puffer advancing , with Hobbleshank in front , found himself in a long narrow room , with a plain pine table stretched through the centre , a forlorn-looking eagle , with a bunch of arrowy skewers in its talons and a striped flag about its head for a turban , two or three carpenters ' benches along the walls , and the whole lighted by four sombre tallow twopennies at the farthest extremity . 
The gentlemen of the Bottom Club , as they presented themselves at that moment to Puffer Hopkins , certainly furnished a remarkable spectacle ; the most remarkable feature of which was , that all the large members of the Club , by some inscrutable fatality , were constrained and restricted in small hats and irksome jackets , while all the small members , by some equally potent dispensation , were allowed to revel in an unlimited wilderness of box-coat , petersham and tarpaulin . 
`` We welcome you , '' said the pale thoughtful man , rising and extending his right hand toward Puffer as he advanced , while with his left he secured the sails of his great red vest , `` We welcome you , Mr. Hopkins , to this association of brethren . 
You see what hardships we are undergoing '' -- he did , for at the mere mention of the thing , the whole Club wriggled in their ill-assorted garments like so many clowns in the very crisis of a contortion -- `` to test the principles of an ameliorated condition of things . 
Hereupon the thoughtful gentleman sate down ; the Club looked at each other and shook their heads , as much as to say , `` This Chairman of ours , is , certainly , a born genius '' ; and Puffer and Hobbleshank were earnestly invited to the upper end of the board , where they could possess the immediate society of the intellectual president , with the convenient solace of the beer-pitcher . 
They then , hand in hand , Hobbleshank and Puffer Hopkins joining in , commenced capering in a circle , dashing down , first the right heel and then the left , with astonishing energy , and as if they were driving in the nails of the floor all over again ; meantime roaring out the tag-ends of a partizan song , which intimated that , They were the boys so genteel and civil , That cared not a straw for Nick nor the Devil : with other choice sentiments metrically stated . 
In this general scrutiny it would have been an impeachment of his talents as an inquisitor to have charged him with neglecting the remotest corner or out-of-the-way borough of the apparel either of Hobbleshank or Puffer Hopkins . 
Having accomplished this undertaking to his own satisfaction , he established himself at a side of the long table , planted a fur cap of great antiquity , after a drunken fashion , over his brows , dropped his head upon his folded arms , and devoted himself with great apparent zeal and sincerity , to the business of sleeping . 
As the entertainments were manifestly drawing to an end , Hobbleshank glanced warily towards Puffer Hopkins , and made for the door : but they were not let off so easily , -- for simultaneous with the rising of Puffer Hopkins was that of the entire Bottom Club ; and a general friendly assault was begun upon the person of that worthy young gentleman . 
The unshorn man hoped Puffer Hopkins would come again , and vowed he was his friend to command , from the state of Maine to Cape May ; and the metaphysical p264-036 deep thinker , struggling manfully with the beer he had imbibed , promised next time to communicate something of vital consequence to the welfare of this Union : with which promises , protestations and God-speeds , Hobbleshank and Hopkins departed . 
He had just stepped down from this inquisition , when a sharp rap echoed through the hall , and without waiting for a summons to enter , the strange old body , Puffer Hopkins ' friend , marched abruptly into the apartment , with a very peremptory and threatening aspect . 
Anxiousto become familiar with the people in their assemblies and public gatherings -- to learn how crowds are excited and assuaged , and made to do the bidding of cunning men : how that which would be folly and sheer madness with one , may , practised upon many in a confused mass , take the hue of profoundest wisdom and justice : and having at heart withal the suggestions of his strange old friend of Fogfire Hall , Puffer Hopkins now made it a point to haunt meetings and congregations of every sort , anniversaries , wharf crowds and lectures , and to detect how the Leviathan populace is snared in a fair net of silvery words and pleasant speeches . 
Into this oblong region of sale , as one of the resorts where his plans might be furthered , Puffer one evening made his way . 
`` Gentlemen , '' cried the black-haired auctioneer with increased animation as Puffer Hopkins entered ; discovering perhaps in the peculiar costume and manner of that excellent young gentleman some indications of a melo-dramatic tendency : `` Gentlemen , here 's the primest article I 've offered to-night : this is ` Brimstone Castle , ' a native melo-drama , as performed one hundred nights at the Bowery Theatre , Bowery , New York . 
Puffer Hopkins detected the same burly voice bidding for this -- and triumphing in its bid -- that he had heard twice before . 
There was something in the voice of the bidder who had borne off the chief purchases of the evening , that excited the curiosity of Puffer Hopkins ; he thought he had heard it before , and , to ascertain the owner , now mounted a bench , and peered over the heads of the audience towards the quarter whence it had issued . 
In a remote angle of the auction room , apart from the crowd , in a little domain of his own , stood a square , broad-breasted gentleman , with his arms folded and gazing at the auctioneer with a fixed and intense look , that could not have been readily surpassed by a Spanish inquisitor , or a petty justice reproving a constable . 
It was this gentleman that bid for the melo-drama , the poem of Bloody Puddle , and the volume of Transcendental Lectures ; and now that he had attained a full view of his person , Puffer felt quite sure that he knew him . 
Pushing through the mass of bidders , he reached the little Zahara which this gentleman 's frowns and dignity had created for himself . 
`` Mr. Fishblatt -- I think , '' said Puffer , respectfully contemplating the figure before him . 
`` You are , '' answered Puffer Hopkins : `` I had the honor of speaking before you at the last general meeting ; you were a Vice-President . '' 
Hereupon Mr. Fishblatt took possession of Puffer Hopkins ' right hand , shook it strenuously , and then turning to the auctioneer on service , said : `` That man 's worthy to be a Quarterly Reviewer . 
While the broad-breasted gentleman was engaged elaborating this artful encomium on his friend , the auctioneer had produced a huge bundle of controversial tracts and almanacs , black with wood-cuts , and dashed them upon the counter with great spirit ; at which Mr. Fishblatt started , again grasped Hopkins by the hand , gave him the street and number of his residence , and urged him to call speedily . 
Pouring out his passages of description and invitation vehemently , Mr. Fishblatt gave Puffer a strenuous good-night -- advanced and threw his card upon the counter , and thrusting his right hand into the breast of his coat , marched out of the auction room with great vigor and self-possession . 
The bids ran on ; the auctioneer chanced to turn the volume toward Puffer Hopkins , who discovered at the side of one of the pages , a pen-and-ink drawing of a stout gentleman , standing in a coffin , with his right arm outstretched as if on the point of beginning a speech . 
Not knowing but that this might be some new exercise in oratory , and seeing at once the facilities for the pathetic afforded by a snug-built coffin , Puffer entered the field , and overtopping all competition by a half-dollar bid , paid the purchase money in silver -- which it employed him some ten minutes to hunt into a corner of his pocket and secure -- and bore it away . 
In less than a quarter of an hour , he was at his own room in the Fork ; had called in his poor neighbor , the tailor , and by the light of a dim candle , -LRB- snuffers not being within the appointments of his establishment -RRB- , entered upon the perusal of his new-bought story . 
Toward the close of an afternoon , a few days after the visit of Puffer Hopkins to the auction-room , a deformed little personage was strolling through the street , with his arms nearly to his elbows in his breeches-pockets , his head thrown back a trifle , and his eyes turned up as if he were in the very depths and profundities of a cogitation of some consequence : in short , it was our gentleman of the Bottom Club , who practiced upon certain pockets , as has been seen , on a former occasion . 
Then before , there 's twenty pound of hoop , twopence a pound , and a sheet of copper , seven pound , at five pence -- thirty-five and forty ; as good as seventy-five : and all the afternoon for a holiday , to find out where this Puffer Hopkins lives , and to hatch out an acquaintance with him . 
There 's something brewing in the wind ` twixt him and that shabby old lunatic , Hobbleshank : something going on that ought to be put a stop to ; and as the Wice Chance-seller of Law wo ` nt interfere to separate such good friends , we 'll see what Mr. Small , Ish Small , of Pell street or thereabouts , can do . '' 
Into this he made his way , selected a suitable position , and at the proper moment , -LRB- a great deal of the same sort of business going on at the time -RRB- , he called out the name of Puffer Hopkins , which was duly entered by one of the clerks of the meeting upon a roll , and the agile little performer , thereupon , departed . 
It would be perhaps a sufficient description of this apartment to say , that it was hardly large enough to fight a boxing-match in , with the attendant spectators ; that besides the person of Puffer Hopkins , it held the heads of Demosthenes and John Randolph , a solitary chair , a small auction-bought desk , and a long fragment of looking-glass established in one corner . 
asked Hopkins , eagerly . 
answered the little gentleman , licking his lips . 
exclaimed Puffer , seizing him by the hand ; `` I owe you a debt of gratitude for life for this . 
Receiving an answer in the affirmative , he ran on in a very fluent and enthusiastic style , pronouncing his introduction to the Bottom Club one of the most fortunate incidents of his life ; his acquaintance with the gentleman before him as one of the greatest pleasures he had ever known ; said that he was attached to his party and his principles , no man more ; and that he was resolved to perform his duty as a member of the Vigilance Committee with the utmost zeal , promptitude and dispatch . 
The stranger , although a small man , was not a little astonished at this tide of eloquence , -LRB- for Puffer Hopkins was in the middle of a declamation to his looking-glass on some supposed festive occasion when the visitor had broken in , and which declamation , in the flutter of the interruption , he applied to his unexpected advent -RRB- : we say he was not a little surprised , but it was with main effort he subdued his mirth , when , at the end of all these elegant promises and professions , Puffer Hopkins asked him `` What he had to do ? '' 
It is pretty clear that it was to none of these varieties of service that Puffer Hopkins was expected to devote his very promising talents : and of this Puffer himself had some faint conception -- for when he puzzled his brain in search of the duties of his new character , it did not occur to him that it had ever been the business of any politician , past or present , or would be in all future time , to subserve in any possible way the plain , simple , every-day interests of humanity . 
Laughing , and still holding his sides , the dwarf gentleman again burlesqued a bow and hurried from the apartment : leaving Mr. Puffer Hopkins in a state of no little wonder and bewilderment . 
Determined , nevertheless , to acquire a more definite knowledge of the functions and duties of this majestic office , Puffer snatched up his hat , shifted himself into a bright blue coat with intense brass buttons , and went forth . 
In the excitement and anxiety of mind resulting from the sudden knowledge of his appointment , he had enjoyed a brisk walk of two squares or more before it occurred to him that it would greatly further his inquiries if he would take a minute or two to consider where they should be made . 
After many misgivings and fluctuations of opinion , he at length fixed on Mr. Fishblatt , and , for a variety of reasons , selected that gentleman as an adviser in his present emergency : to whose residence he turned his steps with all becoming expedition . 
Glancing about for an overgrown door-plate and a red front surmounted with gigantic chimney-pots , Puffer was not long in discovering the domicil of which he was in search ; which domicil was , however , adorned , beyond the description of Mr. Fishblatt , by an oblong sign stretched across the entire front , and cutting the house unpleasantly into halves , indicating that the safe , cheap and accommodating corporation of the Phœnix Fire Insurance Company harbored within . 
Mr. Halsey Fishblatt , therefore , inhabited a second floor ; and after a due performance on a door-bell , and ringing all the customary changes , Puffer was led by a frouzy-haired servant girl through the hall , up one flight of stairs and into a small supplemental building , in a small room whereof -- comprehending the entire breadth and length of the same -- he came upon Mr. Fishblatt , seated grandly in a very high-backed chair -- holding in his outstretched arms an enormous newspaper , on which his eyes were fixed as keenly and comprehensively as if he expected by the perusal of the sheet before him at that very time and the mastery of its contents , to become one of the finest scholars and profoundest critics in the country . 
On the entrance of Puffer Hopkins , the reader sprang to his feet , cast down the paper , and rushing anxiously towards his visiter , fixed upon his right hand with the tenacity of a griffin . 
`` I certainly think it is , '' answered Puffer , contemplating the questioner with considerable astonishment . 
`` To tell the truth , I 'm a member of the Vigilance Committee , and do n't know what my duties are , '' answered Puffer . 
`` If I was a member of a Vigilance Committee , '' said Mr. Fishblatt , regarding Puffer Hopkins with great gravity and steadiness . 
`` Would you inquire so very particularly , '' asked Puffer , timidly -- for he felt abashed by the grand conceptions of the imaginative Fishblatt -- `` into the private habits of voters ? '' 
Puffer Hopkins frankly and heroically confessed that he could not very readily , without the aid of Mr. Fishblatt . 
`` The laws hardly reach such men , '' suggested Puffer . 
`` I think it would -- strictly speaking , '' answered Puffer ; `` But as member of a Vigilance Committee , should I undertake to spy out such abuses ? '' 
`` I have no instructions , '' answered Puffer Hopkins . 
asked Puffer , gaping with astonishment at the personal services required of him , as a member of the high and mighty Ward Vigilance Committee . 
Surprised and perplexed by the requisitions of the Vigilance branch of the service -- as expounded by Mr. Halsey Fishblatt , the extraordinary fervor of whose fancy Puffer Hopkins had not yet quite learned to appreciate -- he directed his steps towards his lodgings in the Fork , striving his best to project the means by which he should procure the articles enumerated , and the kind of conveyance by which they were to be transported to voters ' houses . 
As to the latter , his mind wavered between a porter 's gocart and a small boy , with broad shoulders , -- and as to the first , he had not reached a conclusion when he reached home ; where he was opportunely relieved from further perplexity for the present , by having a dirty billet placed in his hands , inviting him to a meeting of the very Vigilance Committee itself , at the Head Quarters , at half past seven that evening . 
Disposing of a thrifty meal , consisting of two cheap slices of bread , a saucer of onions in vinegar , -LRB- an excellent thing for the voice -RRB- , and a bowl of black tea , he whirled his hat half a dozen times about his left hand , applying to its nap , meantime , the sleeve of his right arm , buttoned his coat as smartly as he could , and leaving word that he had gone to a public meeting , the young politician put forth . 
When this gentleman had occupied the floor for about an hour , Puffer Hopkins very discreetly held himself to be as well advised as to the services required as he was ever likely to be ; and determining in his own mind not to be easily outdone , and to set about his portion of the task on the morrow , he departed . 
The sun had certainly made up his mind , that morning , not to see company ; and if all the Vigilance Committees in the seventeen wards had turned out expressly for that purpose , it would have been impossible for even their well-known and extraordinary astuteness to have detected the slightest glimpse of his benevolent features anywhere in the very murkiest sky of a November day . 
Among these was the resolute Hopkins , who , embowered in a cheap blue-cotton umbrella , strided along , bent on the thorough and faithful discharge of his arduous duties as scourer or canvasser of the Ward . 
Opening a blind gate , which worked with a pulley and closed swiftly behind him , Puffer found himself in a square enclosure , filled with carts , fragments of boarding , old iron pots , broken pieces of garden-fence standing against the walls , two cistern-heads , and , at the rear , a row of cheap wooden houses , with the windows dashed out , sundry breaches in the casing , and various red-pots , supposed to contain stunted specimens of horticulture , arranged in the upper windows . 
`` Very well , '' said Puffer Hopkins , stepping out from under a shed , where he had ambushed himself during this instructive conversation : `` These gentlemen must be on the reliefcommittee -- they have a wonderful tenderness for poor people , and would n't see 'em made martyrs of by a conflagration , for all the world . 
The summons was answered by a small girl , with an unclean face and eyes that twinkled through the dirt like a ground-mole 's , who gave him to understand that the gentleman in question was at that moment in the garret of the building , busy upon a two-quarter , and that he , Puffer Hopkins , if he went up stairs , had better come upon him cautiously , lest he might , in the confusion of a sudden surprise , let slip a volcano , or something horrible of that nature , in the combustible line . 
Taking to heart the suggestion of the small adviser , Puffer walked up stairs , and knocked at the door of the artizan 's laboratory with great discretion , beginning with a rap in the very lowest key , and ascending gradually to a clear doubleknock . 
In a moment Puffer was admitted , and discovered a lean man , bending over a mortar , with great staring eyes , and cheeks discolored with brimstone or yellow fumes of some other kind ; and surrounded by black bottles , two or three broken pestles , an iron retort , and various other implements of his trade . 
Puffer introduced himself , and proceeded at once to the exercise of his function as a scourer . 
`` This profession of yours , '' said Puffer -- he dared not call it a trade , although the poor workman was up to his eyes in vile yellow paste and charcoal-dust -- `` This profession , sir , must give you many patriotic feelings of a high cast , sir . '' 
`` It does , sir , '' answered the lightning-maker , slightly mistaking his meaning : `` I 've told the manager , more than fifty times , that lightning such as mine is worth ninepence a bottle , but he never would pay more than fourpence ha ` penny : except in volcanoes -- them 's always two-quarters . '' 
`` I think it is : and I 'm glad to hear you talk so feelingly , '' answered Puffer Hopkins ; `` our next mayor 's a very domestic-minded man -- just such a man as you are -- only I do n't believe he 'd be so prudent and active about the bucket on the hearth . '' 
At this , the lightning-maker smiled pleasantly to himself , and unconsciously thrust a large roll of brimstone in his cheek . 
resumed Puffer Hopkins , seeing how well the personal compliment took , and glancing at the lightning-maker 's yellow chaps . 
Instructed , by this , of the tropical climate of the lightning-maker 's garret , and thinking that a sufficient train had been laid for a future vote , Puffer -- who had been advised of the residence of a stout cobbler in the neighboring attic -- trotted up a ladder and through the open skuttle , and scrambling over the pitched roof , plunged down a similar opening in the next house , and came very suddenly upon the object he sought . 
cried the cobbler , as his eye caught the person of Puffer Hopkins : `` This is n't fair -- nor is it legal in any courts , whether of Chancery or common law . 
A few words , however , calmed his agitation : he threw down his bench , resumed his seat , and in token of his perfect satisfaction and pleasure in the explanation Puffer had given , of the character in which he visited him , he kindled his pipe and smoked away in good , long , hearty puffs . 
Growing communicative , as their intercourse continued , Puffer at length learned that the gentleman was the proprietor of the Dutch oven down stairs -- the terror of Mr. Blinker , the President -- was greatly distressed by creditors , who hunted him with catchpoles and marshals from morning till night , that all his proprietary interest on the lower floors lay in the oven aforesaid and a very comfortable little fat wife , -LRB- whose pride and comfort consisted in a turkey browned before a slow fire -RRB- , and other little necessaries allowed by law . 
Puffer Hopkins of course applauded the spirit of the cobbler , and artlessly suggested that no man , with the soul of a man , would submit quietly to such impertinent intermeddling with his private affairs . 
asked the cobbler , looking at Puffer Hopkins anxiously , and planting his great hands upon his knees . 
They 'll do away with writs , and executions , and all that sort of thing , '' said Puffer , coolly , `` that 's all ! '' 
shouted the cobbler , springing from his bench and seizing Puffer by the hand : `` I 'm your man ! 
Taking a rapid and comprehensive survey , Puffer Hopkins was aware that he had entered the apartment of the bereaved mother -- for there upon the mantel in a glass case , dressed in crape , stood the identical wooden horse , with the ribbon about his neck that had been attached to the bed-post by the little misanthrope , on the day he had taken his own life in the cistern . 
As he discovered this , a gloom suddenly came over the countenance of the scourer , and he approached the afflicted parent with an aspect as wo-begone and dolorous as the wood-cut frontispiece of the most melancholy Mourner 's Companion ever printed . 
`` Mr. Hopkins , of the Ward Committee , '' said Puffer , advancing and taking the bereaved one by the hand . 
`` No , he is n't , sir , '' she answered ; `` it 's very little that he is in now , since the event . 
Puffer Hopkins wondered -- if the sight of a miserable caricature of a horse in wood , under a glass cover , was so near making a lunatic of him -- why he did n't go mad at once , like a sensible man , and shiver it all in atoms , which would have done something towards making it invisible : but he did n't utter these thoughts , but on the contrary kept them hidden in the very darkest recess of his bosom . 
`` You do right , madam , '' continued Puffer , `` to keep that constantly before your eyes . 
Oh , no ; there is nothing , there can be nothing , '' pursued the scourer , in a voice choked with agony , and turning away as if he was too manly to expose his feelings , `` like a mother 's grief . 
`` I will not , '' said Puffer , `` I 'll resist my feelings , and say no more about it : not if you 'll be good enough to take this little order on the dry-goods dealer -- just so that the poor boy , if he should ever be found , may be put in a decent shroud ; he was a small boy , I think -- the order 's for a small boy -- a very small boy . 
And oblige me by telling your husband that Puffer Hopkins , of the Vigilance Committee , called . 
With the door , he closed his labors for the day , and shaped his course homeward , satisfied that he had done his country some slight service , and that two or three minds , at least , had been sufficiently enlightened to vote the proper ticket at the next charter election . 
A few mornings after his adventures as scourer , Puffer Hopkins was sitting at his desk in the Fork , earnestly engaged in the preparation and composition of a handbill , for the approaching election . 
Having a good eye for catching phrases , and considerable readiness in sounding words that would tell well in the popular ear , the composition presently flowed apace ; line upon line lengthened out , Puffer reciting each aloud as it was finished , and in the course of about two hours , a thundering manifesto , doomed soon to echo back from wall , shutter , bulk-head and house-side , great words of fearful import , and to set the whole world of meeting-hunters and politicians astir , was completed . 
Puffer Hopkins was clearing his throat and preparing for a grand rehearsal of this master-piece , when he was suddenly confronted by a frouzy-headed small girl , who had got into the apartment , it seemed to him -- for he had no notice of her entrance -- by some underhand jugglery or legerdemain , and who , assuming a face of great mystery , levelled at him a diminutive billet , with a faint streak of gold about its edges , and his own name written elaborately on the back . 
Three lines of writing and a date within , worked out obviously with painful toil and a great variety of pens , explained the object of the small visiter , in a request that `` Mr. P. Hopkins would favor Mr. H. Fishblatt with company at seven o'clock this -LRB- Thursday -RRB- evening , at the sign of the brass plate and chimney-pots , as before ; giving him at the same time street and number . 
Puffer was in fine spirits , for he had been successful in his literary labors -- and what author 's heart is not a-glow when his invention proves ready , and his hand runs free across the page ? 
-- and he accepted the note with great complaisance , and bade the frouzy-haired messenger -LRB- who stood staring at the huge text scattered about the floor , as if the great black letters might be ogres , giants , or some other monsters -RRB- , inform Mr. Fishblatt he would attend his summons with the utmost pleasure . 
He was as good as his word ; and two hours before the time named in the invitation , Puffer began to prepare for the party at Fishblatt 's . 
First and foremost , he drew forth from a case , in the corner of his lodgings , a brass-buttoned blue coat , of a popular cut , and fell to beating it over the shoulders and down the back with a yard stick , as if he had under his hand the body and person of his direst enemy in the world : then he twisted the right arm up and dashed at the place where the ribs might have been ; then he fell upon the breasts and pumelled them horribly ; and then , casting aside his stick , he fastened fiercely on the collar and gave the whole a mighty shaking , as if he would have the very life out of it . 
A pair of light drab cloth pantaloons , dragged from the same confinement , shared in like manner at his hands ; a striped vest was stretched on the back of a chair like a rack ; then his boots were forced into a high polish , the pantaloons drawn on , the vest released , and the coat occupied by its legitimate lord , and Puffer , first attitudenizing a little before the long glass , and running his fingers through his hair -- to get his head as nearly as possible into the model he had in his eye of a great politician , whose portrait was in the gallery at the museum -- was ready for the party . 
Sallying gently forth , and marching steadily through the streets , with a secret conviction that every eye in the metropolis was fixed immovably upon him , he shortly discovered the great brass plate of Halsey Fishblatt gleaming through the dark , where he knocked , waited for a minute in a state of awful suspense and was admitted , as before , by the message-bearer , who came to the door with a face wrinkled with smiles , and strongly suggestive of something very nice and choice to be had within . 
The small girl asked Puffer to be good enough to go to the third-story back room , and thither he proceeded ; encountering on his way , and at the base of the second flight of stairs , a fry of dolorous-looking gentlemen , who lingered about the parlor door , pulling down their wristbands and contemplating it , as it opened and shut , with as much dread as if it had been the gate of the doomed ; while others hovered about the great balustrade of the stair-case , in waiting for the descent of their lady partners from the third-story front room above . 
Returning from his toilet up stairs , Puffer Hopkins followed the general current , and discovered a scene the solemnity whereof was exceedingly impressive and disheartening . 
The walls of the parlor upon which he had entered were lined all round with well-dressed ladies and gentlemen , sitting as erect as corpses , and gazing into the empty space in the middle of the apartment , as if some curious meteorological phenomenon were going on there , in which they all had a special interest . 
At the announcement of Puffer Hopkins by a pale young gentleman at the door , the corpses waked up a little , some twittered spasmodically , a few moved uneasily in their chairs , and by the time Puffer had attained a seat in a corner , the company had again subsided into its condition of tomb-like repose . 
Mr. Fishblatt , at the thought of so august a presence , recoiled a little , but recovering speedily , a deputation was immediately sent out , consisting of Puffer Hopkins and two young gentlemen who wore large watch seals , and were rather ambitious of office and employment of this kind , to wait upon his eminence . 
Puffer Hopkins had a glimmering reminiscence of a broad-brimmed hat , very much like the Alderman 's , escaping into a pantry at the end of the hall as he came in at the beginning of the evening , worn by Crump -- could it be so ? 
At this moment , Puffer Hopkins , who had overheard the questions of Mr. Blinker , and entertaining a becoming reverence for the distinguished individual before him -- feeling , too , perhaps , that a modicum of metropolitan information from the very fountain head , on a subject in which he felt an interest , from his frequent professional pilgrimages to political meetings , lectures , and other night-resorts , might be serviceable -- impelled by some , or all of these considerations , Puffer proceeded to ask , in a tone of profound respect , -- `` Whether they were to have new windows in the public lamps ? '' 
`` I did , sir , '' reiterated Puffer Hopkins , beginning to feel rhetorically inclined , and so understanding the learned gentleman , `` and knowing the interest felt in the answer , and your ability to give us a clear and decisive reply , I put it to you in this public manner -- whether we are to have new glasses in the public lamps ! 
That Puffer Hopkins was profoundly penetrated with a sense of the uncertainty of human affairs -- for had there not been here an individual occupying but a minute before the very highest conceivable pinnacle -- the very Himalayah-top of human greatness attainable at a small party -- and had n't that individual , with most suicidal rashness , pitched himself off headlong into the very centre of a low , vulgar kitchen-garden , by an allusion to fumigated beans ? 
Puffer Hopkins , who had gallantly assumed the charge of a young lady , with a pair of piercing black eyes , who lived in a remote suburb , with which Puffer was by no means familiar , spent the remainder of the night , up to three o'clock , in piloting the young lady homeward , and the balance , till dawn , in discovering his way back again , through divers crooks and crosses , through streets that ran at first directly for half a mile into town , and then directly for half a mile more out again ; getting now and then into a road that had no outlet , and then into one that had an outlet that led into nothing . 
It was in the peak of the Fork , even higher up than Puffer Hopkins , that Fob the tailor lodged , and there Puffer , ascending by ladder steps , one pleasant morning about this time , found him nestling like a barn-swallow , under the eaves , with his legs gathered under him , after the immemorial fashion of the craft . 
Although Puffer had many times before visited the lodgings of the little tailor , he had not failed , each time , to express , by his manner at least , a degree of surprise and bewilderment at the peculiar appointments and furniture of the apartment . 
To come up out of the noisy and brawling street , where every thing was so harsh and city-like , into a little region , where every thing was quietly contrived to call up remote places , with the thought of a life so different , so simple and pastoral , compared with the dull tumult below , was like magic , or playhouse jugglery ; and such a feeling betrayed itself in the countenance of Puffer Hopkins . 
said the tailor , detecting the question which Puffer 's looks had often asked before : `` What business have I with a black-bird , unless I might fancy that I could catch the cut of a parson 's coat from the fashion of his deep sable feathers . 
Puffer had indicated by the attentive ear and glistening eyes with which he had regarded his poor neighbor , that , although a politician and crowd-hunter , he had yet something in his heart that answered these conceits of the fancy-stricken tailor . 
Puffer still listened and said not a word . 
As he spake , the large black eyes of the tailor grew more lustrous , and still the more from the tears which stole out and back again with the emotions that stirred him . 
Fob had scarcely finished his earnest declamation , when they heard creaking steps upon the stair , and in a minute or two while they listened , the door was thrust open , and a person of no little consequence , if his own countenance was to be taken as a commentary on his pretensions , came forward . 
He was a fine , sleek , well-fed gentleman , of a good middle stature , apparelled as daintily and cleanly as one could wish ; and judging by his jet black hair and whiskers which shone again with oil or some other ointment ; his shapely and well-cut coat which sat to his back like a supplementary skin ; his pantaloons so straight and trim that the legs must needs move rectilinearly or not at all ; his hat with its smooth , glossy nap ; his boots quite as polished and serenely bright ; and the massy gold chain that stretched like an arc of promise over the azure heaven of a deep blue vest : judging , we say , by all these , this personage must have been the first favorite of all the guilds and craftsmen , whose business it is to prepare a gentleman for a promenade . 
In explanation of the character of his poor neighbor , Puffer afterwards learned , that the homestead of Fob 's ancestors , for poor and wretched as he now seemed , the fanciful tailor once had ancestors -- the homestead which Fob loved next after his own soul , every rood of which was fairy ground to his memory , peopled with lovely shapes , having power to stir the fountain of tears , every nook and angle associated in his fancy with precious hours long passed away ; that this dear homestead had been wrested out of the hands of its rightful heritors , and was , by law and custom , a forbidden realm to him . 
In spite of this , it was Fob 's wont to visit it secretly every year , at mid-summer , to wander silently about its familiar fields and dusky woods , and returning when he had gathered a store of pleasnat thoughts and fancies to last him a twelvemonth , to bring back such memorials and relics -- like those that garnished his garret -- as would suggest to his mind the kindliest recollections of his favorite haunts . 
asked Puffer Hopkins . 
he answered . 
asked Puffer Hopkins . 
It suddenly entered the mind of Puffer Hopkins , whose attention had been strongly fastened upon the narrative of the little tailor , that the old man , that this sufferer , of so long since , and who was supposed by Fob to lie in his grave , might be none other than his kind and singular companion whom he had followed from the Public Hall . 
It could scarcely be expected that Puffer Hopkins should escape the general endemic ; on the contrary , it being his first season , the symptoms were in him extremely violent , and furious . 
From morning till night he sate at his desk like one spell-bound , fabricating resolutions , preambles , and reports of retiring committees , by the gross ; or starting up every now and then and stalking the room vehemently , and then returning and committing the emphatic thoughts that had occurred to him in his hurried travel , to the record before him ; varying this employment with speeches without number , delivered in all possible attitudes to imaginary audiences of every temper , complexion and constitution . 
Sometimes he had very distinctly before him , in his mind 's eye , an assemblage where the carting interest prevailed , and where the reduction of Corporation-cartmen 's wages , for instance , might be undergoing an examination . 
`` Gentlemen , '' said Puffer , to the prospective audience , `` Gentlemen , I put it to you whether twenty cents a load will pay a cartman and a cartman 's horse ? 
Then his audience consisted of a great number of individuals , who from their being clad in nice broadcloth coats , and always having their beards closely trimmed , are supposed to be gentlemen and Christians . 
Abandoning this disagreeable region , Puffer relieved himself by the fiction of a room full of stout , rosy , comfortable looking gentlemen , who groaned in spirit under a great burthen of city charges , and whose constant saying it was , that they , figuratively only , were eaten up with taxes . 
`` The city aldermen , the common council of this mighty metropolis , '' said Puffer , `` is nothing but a corporation of boa-constrictors ; a board of greedy anacondas , that swallow lot after lot , house upon house , of the freeholders , as if they were so many brick-and-mortar sandwiches . 
It is impossible to conjecture to what regions of rhetoric and simile-land the imagination of Puffer Hopkins might have conveyed him , now that he was fairly on the wing ; for at this moment , and in the very midst of these pleasant fables and suppositions , Puffer received by the hand of a messenger , a notice from the chief or executive committee , directing him to proceed forthwith to the house of Mr. Nicholas Finch , an electioneering agent , and secure his services . 
Now Puffer had heard of Nick Finch , as he was familiarly entitled , before ; believed him to be as thorough-going , limber-tongued and supple-jointed fellow as could be found in the county ; and therefore relished not a little the honor of effecting a negociation for his distinguished talent . 
Without delay he hurried forth ; rousing by the way the messenger , who being a fellow besotted by drink and stupified with much political talk , in tap-rooms and elsewhere , had halted in one of the landings , and there , retiring , penitentially , to a corner , had gone off into a profound and melodious slumber . 
Performing this agreeable duty , and lending the gentleman an arm to the street , Puffer proceeded to the quarters where he understood Mr. Finch held his lair . 
And word having passed along that a gentleman was in quest of Mr. Finch , Puffer was telegraphed along from window to window , area to area , until he was left at the foot of an alley , by an old woman who had galloped at his side for several rods , who shouted in his ear , `` Up there , sir , up there ! '' 
Left to himself , Puffer entered by a gate , and making cautious progress along a boarded lane , arrived in front of a row of common houses , to which access was obtained by aid of outside steps fastened against the buildings . 
Ascending the first that offered , he rapped inquiringly at the door , was hailed from within by a decisive voice , and marched in . 
The apartment he had invaded was an oblong room , with a sanded floor , a desk on a raised platform at the farthest extremity , a full length George Washington in perfect white standing in one corner , and a full length Hamilton , bronzed , in the opposite ; against the wall , and over a fire-place in which a pile of wood was crackling and blazing , was fastened the declaration of Independence , with all those interesting specimens of hand-writing of the fifty-two signers , done in lithograph ; and across a single window that lighted the room , where he had entered , was stretched a half American flag , cut athwart , directly through all the stars , and suspended by a tape . 
It occurred to Puffer that if these fellows were actually visiters of the gentleman in the cart-frock , that he had decidedly the most select circle of acquaintance of any one he could mention . 
said Puffer . 
Gentlemen , -LRB- turning to the line of ragged gentry on the bench -RRB- Puffer Hopkins , Esq. , of the Opposition Committee . 
Rise , if you please , and give him a bow ! '' 
`` I am afraid I interrupt business , '' said Puffer . 
Saying this , he at once inducted Puffer in a seat behind the desk on the raised platform , placed before him a green box , and proceeded to distribute among the gentlemen on the bench , a number of small papers curiously folded , which they received with a knowing smile . 
At this , one of the company who had found his way , by some mysterious dispensation , into a faded suit of black -- it was the broken-down parson 's -- but whose hair was , nevertheless , uncombed , and his hat in very reduced circumstances , shambled across the floor , and made a show of inserting a vote in the green box before Puffer Hopkins . 
`` That will never do , sir , '' said the electioneerer rather sternly , as he was crossing back again . 
Puffer Hopkins caught sight of a table spread in a room that was entered by a descending step or two : the voters in rehearsal started to their feet , and cast longing eyes towards the paradise thus opened to their view ; and before Mr. Finch could give order one way or the other , they had broken all bounds , and rushed down , like so many harpies , on the banquet spread below . 
Puffer , descending from the inspector 's seat , which he had filled during the rehearsal , with all the gravity he could command , and , complimenting Mr. Finch upon the show of his men , admitted that he would ; and that he was there on that very business . 
Puffer answered that he thought that proposition could ` nt be safely denied . 
`` The whole seventeen if you please : '' answered Puffer . 
`` It 's a bargain , sir '' -- said Puffer , seizing the virtuous gentleman by the hand . 
With this understanding , Puffer left ; the agent crying after him to call in on Monday week , when they would be finally broken in -- `` You make a capital inspector ; all you want is age and silver spectacles to make you as respectable a rogue as ever sat behind a green box ! '' 
Breathing the word `` mum '' in an under tone , and shaking his head in reproof at the hardihood of the agent Puffer descended into the yard . 
He had reached the ground , and was turning to leave the place , when he discovered moving across the extremity of the yard and passing into a house many degrees poorer than the agent 's , a figure bent with years ; he walked with a slow shuffling gait , and pausing often , wrung his hands and looked keenly into the earth , as if all his hopes lay buried there . 
Puffer knew not whether to advance and greet the old man , as his heart prompted , or to withdraw ; when he raised his head as if he knew the footstep that was near , and discovering Puffer Hopkins , started from the dotage of his walk and manner , hastened across the ground , and while his face brightened at every pace he hailed him from the distance . 
`` You are -- you are , '' answered Puffer , who could not fail to be touched by the kindly eagerness of the old man . 
There was another , '' continued the bed-ridden man , rising in his couch and pressing his hand upon his brow -- and peering from under it towards Hobbleshank and Puffer , `` another . '' 
he replied . 
With this question he fell back and lay with his eyes wide open and glaring ; but still and motionless as a stone . 
Leaving him in this mood , Hobbleshank and Puffer turned away from his bed-side , and sending in a neighbor that had stood watching at the door -- for on such chance aid the bed-ridden man trusted solely for life -- to minister to his wants , they escaped swiftly from the place . 
said Hobbleshank grasping Puffer Hopkins by the hand , as tears flowed into his eyes ; and parting without a further word , in gloom and silence , each took his way . 
The piteous look and tone with which the old man had uttered these words , lingered in the ear of Puffer Hopkins , long after they had parted , and came up in every interval of business and labor , to fill the pause and excite in his mind a vague wonder as to what they might refer . 
Perplexed by thought of storm and tempest , in the midst of all which his mind had recurred to the subject of yesterday , Puffer awoke , and after in vain endeavoring to shake off the gloomy shadow of the old man , that still haunted his chamber , he resolved to call at the lodgings of Hobbleshank and seek there further confirmation of the good or evil of his thoughts . 
The door was ajar , and Puffer entered without notice . 
The elder was speaking as he came in . 
asked the other , laying her hand gently in her arm and looking her anxiously in the face . 
At this moment Puffer Hopkins came forward , and made inquiry for Hobbleshank . 
`` I am ; and saw him but yesterday morning , '' answered Puffer . 
`` Greatly moved , I must confess : cut to the very heart , if I might judge by what fell from him , '' answered Puffer . 
asked Puffer . 
continued Puffer . 
cried Aunt Gatty , starting up at this moment , and looking up earnestly into the face of Puffer Hopkins . 
`` For Heaven 's sake give her comfort , '' said Dorothy , appealing to Puffer , who stood aside , not knowing how to answer this sudden question ; `` tell her the city is not in ruins -- that no church-steeple is cast down . '' 
`` St. Paul 's stands this morning , '' answered Puffer , `` where it has stood many thousand mornings ; the sun shines upon its weathercock as high in air as ever . 
asked Puffer , looking from one to the other . 
said Puffer Hopkins ; `` nothing by which you could judge , further than it involved a thought of the lost child -- on what his mind was fixed ? '' 
`` It 's all darkness and shadow to me now , '' said Puffer , pondering and fixing his eyes upon the ground , `` darkness , with a single ray of light : you have told me all ? '' 
As the woman spake she raised both her hands , and letting them fall , as in benediction , on the person of him she addressed , she watched him silently for an answer . 
`` I am but poor and helpless myself , '' answered Puffer , `` with few friends and narrow means ; I know not what I can do , but , in God 's name , I will do what I can ; what a friendless and fatherless young man may hope to do . '' 
exclaimed Dorothy , glancing from the helpless old creature at the hearth toward Puffer , who stood , glowing with his good resolution , by the door . 
She had uttered the entreaty ; turned to the old woman , who began to speak again ; and , when she had turned again , Puffer was gone . 
Towhat purpose had Puffer Hopkins pledged his efforts in tracing and recovering Hobbleshank ? 
What clue -- what single clue remained in his hand , now that he reviewed all that had fallen within his knowledge , relating to the old man ? 
At one time it had occurred to him that light shone through upon his fortunes , from the chance discourse of the tailor : that hope was at an end , for , on a re-questioning , he extracted no more than he knew already , and that was nothing to the purpose . 
Any hope that had arisen from the wish to enlist the personal services of his poor neighbor in a further search , was idle ; for Fob , from overwork , feebleness of body , and , as it seemed to Puffer , some secret care that was preying upon him , was failing every day . 
To be sure , Fob dwelt upon the incident he had first recited the same as ever ; spoke of the look and voice of the old man ; his wild talk with the billows and breakers ; and his final act in rending the parchment in pieces . 
Any hope , therefore , built by Puffer on the services of Fob dwindled day by day . 
To what purpose , then , had Puffer Hopkins proffered aid in tracing and recovering Hobbleshank ? 
Feeling this , and admitting to himself how completely darkness hedged him in on every side , he determined -- as most people do in such emergencies -- to let the world take its course , but at the same time was ready to seize promptly on the first opportunity that offered -- and , to do him justice , fervently hoping it might be near at hand -- to execute his trust . 
Puffer had learned by this time that pausing is to a politician , ruin ; and so kept himself abroad in the stream . 
He was now known as an active and zealous partisan : was regarded as a promising and rising young man ; and somehow or other had found himself , by some secret agency , which he could not guess , -LRB- it was the kind old man toiling for him in silence -RRB- pushed forward steadily , and appointed to offices of confidence and trust , as they arose in the due progress of his career . 
Prompt in the performance of all his duties of this nature , Puffer only waited for the evening of its gathering to make his way to the Hall . 
Through this torrid region Puffer passed , recognizing a friend or two by the way , and pausing for a grasp ; and emerging at a side door upon the hall , ascended a flight of stairs and was presently in the committee-room . 
This is no musical forest , '' concluded the gifted declaimer , reiterating sentiments he had expressed many times before , but more particularly to our knowledge on Puffer 's introduction to the Bottom Club . 
During all these deliberations , harangues and ballotings of the Convention , Puffer , under judicious advisement , had refrained from any public expression of his opinions ; but , as an offset to this inactivity , had gone about the committee-room and declared himself privately , separately and apart to each member , in behalf of his candidate , and had taken great pains , when it came to a final and decisive ballot , to cast his vote -- and to have it so known by his friends , in favor of Gallipot , the strongest man . 
When the committee was dismissed , to avoid troublesome questionings or reproaches , Puffer escaped as swiftly as he could , not even tarrying to interchange a word with Mr. Halsey Fishblatt , who , somewhat discomfited by the sudden rebuff he had met , pushed his way , as stately as ever , through the crowd in the bar-room , not deigning speech or recognition to a solitary soul . 
Did no thought of the kind old man enter Puffer 's mind as he departed from Fogfire Hall ? 
It did : and Puffer dwelt upon it till it all rose up anew before him , bright and fresh as the reality . 
He walked by Puffer 's side all the way home to the Fork ; and when sleep and darkness again closed in upon him , again the little paralytic crossed and re-crossed before him in tears and laughter ; and was , finally , lost in a deep gloom , which compassed him in and shut him from the sight . 
On this service Mr. Fishblatt and Puffer Hopkins , as combining great readiness of invention , with handsome powers of persuasion , were named ; and Puffer , accordingly , one evening called by appointment on his associate , to set out with him on the performance of this delicate duty . 
It was a little time before Puffer 's entrance caught his attention ; but when it did , he sprang suddenly to his feet , welcomed him , and spreading the great sheet over a horse by the fire , -- which contrivance he had been driven upon by the extraordinary expansion of the weekly press , -- said he would be ready in a trice . 
Puffer and his companion were ushered to a place by the side of the desk ; a tall young gentleman , who seemed to act as president , or chairman , stood up and knocked on the board before him , in imitation of a popular tune , when there came pouring in at a side passage , which Puffer had not at first observed , a swarm of youths , of all sizes , ages and complexions ; dressed in all possible varieties of apparel ; and bearing themselves with as great freedom and independence of demeanor as any number of gentlemen that could be found . 
`` Who knows , but some of these youth , '' asked Mr. Fishblatt , who had been thrown into temporary shade by the presence of so astounding a genius , wheeling about and looking Puffer full in the face , `` may come to serve their country one of these days in the halls of legislation ? 
My young friends and Mr. President , '' he continued , elevating his voice , now that he was fairly roused , and falling back a step or two , `` To return to what I was about to say when interrupted by Mr. Bloater -- I would put it to your patriotism , whether you should not withdraw for a time from the literary luxury of crying the news and take an active part in public affairs . 
And in this summary way the mission of Puffer Hopkins and Mr. Fishblatt was accomplished , and amidst an uproar of cries , among which they heard above all others `` three cheers for the cheer ! '' 
At early morning -- the very hour , or nearly so , when Puffer Hopkins was holding an interview with the two women -- an aged figure , wild and distracted , wandered about the fields beyond the city . 
His steps were uncertain and his whole look and action full of confusion and doubt : he seemed to be seeking something that was not to be found , and wherever he cast his eyes , wondered that it was not there . 
Where he had past the night , God only knows ; but now that it was morning , he came abroad , drenched , disordered in dress , and wavered and groped about in the clear sunshine as if it had been mist . 
Here was joy -- joy for Puffer Hopkins ; joy for Hobbleshank ; and as he held it close to his eye , it seemed , as every good act and record should , to have a fragrance of all the sweet and fair things among which it had lurked in the basket of the fair fugitive . 
All the hours he had spent in tracking Hobbleshank from place to place ; all the vague rumors that had crept into his mind , as from time to time his acquaintance with Puffer Hopkins grew ; all his long vigils about the Fork , -LRB- whose evil genius , as night and day , but mostly by night , he hovered round it , he seemed , -RRB- -- all confirmed and made true . 
Day had scarcely dawned when Puffer was called up into the chamber of the little tailor . 
As he entered , in quick answer to the summons , dreading some fatal crisis in his disease , Martha was at the bed-side dwelling upon the countenance of Fob with a fixed earnestness , watching every look and turn , and ministering to his wish before it was uttered ; and Puffer , who knew that Fob had had the whole house , in every one of its chambers , for a nurse , and yet none so gentle as this one , wondered whence she came , and turned toward the little tailor with a question in his look . 
He greeted Puffer , as he drew nearer to his couch , and requested him , with a knowing smile , to stand off . 
Puffer , who had been driven back by Fob 's urgency , to almost the other wall of the chamber , confessed , that , with the doubtful light , he could see nothing worth mentioning . 
`` Well , well , '' pursued Fob , rising upon his elbows in his bed , and shifting the position of the parchment so that it fronted the window , `` I must allow you a sunbeam or two : what do you see now ? '' 
Still , Puffer averred , nothing . 
Then Fob permitted him to come a foot or two nearer , still without effect : and at last , in a sort of pleased impatience , he threw the Deed towards him and told him to read for himself . 
`` He wants to show off his scholarship , Martha , that 's all , '' said Fob , who stretched his neck forward and watched the countenance of Puffer . 
A glance had sufficed to show him all . 
There it was , written in a good bold hand , Hobbleshank ; and there was the clause , word for word , as Fob had recited it , touching his child , and showing , clearly enough , the tenure by which he held his right . 
And now something of the old man 's hopes began to break upon him ; as his mind ran back , with inconceivable swiftness , he found he held the key by which to interpret his sad snatches of talk ; his wild , melancholy cry that all was lost ; and then returned upon him too the pledge he had proffered to his aged friends . 
He clasped the little tailor in an earnest grasp ; thanked him that he had borne in mind his poor wish that he might do a service to the kind old man ; and , returning the Deed again to Fob , for present custody , he set forth in a renewed search after Hobbleshank . 
There was not a spot nor place where he had but heard the name of Hobbleleshank mentioned that he did not visit . 
Till noon-day he was busy going about from one place to another , following out an imperfect clue -- when , having learned that the old man had been a constant lounger upon the wharves , spending whole days in looking up and down the river , -LRB- with what purpose nobody could ever guess , -RRB- Puffer spent several hours more , in going from pier to pier , watching the sloops and other river craft as they arrived , with the hope that he might have wandered away into the country and would choose this path back . 
Then he crossed the city to the piehouse where they had passed their first night together : being told that he never came there till towards dusk , he waited about , questioning every one that entered ; but dusk and broad night , even , failed to bring the one he sought . 
He then aimed for Barrell 's oyster-house -- he had reserved this , with a strong hope , for the last . 
When he had reached the oyster-house his heart smote him -- the cellar-doors were closed and a faint light streamed upon the walk and up into the faces of passers-by from the glass bull 's - eye in the door . 
He knocked ; no answer was returned : knocked again , and the glass-eye grew dull ; he bent down and whispered his name ; the eye brightened at once , and he was admitted . 
Politician as he was , he was compelled to stop and stand stone-still on the steps , in wonder and amazement at what he saw . 
The little stalls about the place , used to hold one customer with difficulty -- and not that , if he grew too fast and stout upon the choice shell-fish of Mr. Jarve Barrel -- now swarmed with damp , dripping faces , as thickly set as dewy cauliflowers on a wall ; the fire was out ; and the rear of the cellar , shorn of its benches and small square tables , had passed through a remarkable transformation ; the chief circumstance of which was that Mr. Nicholas Finch , the indefatigable agent , was seated on a stool , his legs spread apart , and between his legs so spread apart , the head of a kneeling gentleman , of scant apparel , bent down . 
Could it be that Puffer Hopkins had got into a branch penitentiary , established under ground , where new tortures and fresh-devised penalties were inflicted on the criminal ? 
Puffer inquired what all this meant . 
He did n't want respectable voters -- freemen , freshly delivered from bondage , voting an independent , patriotic ticket -- coming up to the polls in dirty faces -- did he ? 
He 'd like to have 'em show a clean countenance among their fellow citizens -- would n't he ! 
Puffer looked at the speaker ; saw how poor and frivolous he was , in spite of his trinkets and fair apparel , but when he spoke , in boast , of the home where he might be sheltered , a feeling wakened in Puffer 's heart which he could not subdue . 
Puffer asked no further questions , but climbing the steps , thoughtfully , without salutation or farewell of any kind either to the agent or Mr. Barrell , was in the open air . 
Puffer , with others , fell in at their wake and followed them down the city to the front of a public hall , embellished with the full-length of a tall military gentleman in a blue coat and yellow breeches , where , forming a line , they plied their instruments for a quarter of an hour -- and then marched off . 
Puffer Hopkins entered the Hall ; the great room up stairs was packed close with citizens , listening to an excited individual , who walked up and down the platform , swaying his arms and foaming at the mouth , as though he were in a cage , roaring to be let out . 
This seemed to be to the crowd an entertainment of the first description ; but Puffer , paying little heed to the orator , who he knew was going furious according to an understanding with the committee that arranged the meeting , glided about the room , singling out a man here , -- a man there -- and whispering a word in his ear . 
Puffer as he hurried about , dipping in for a minute at a caucus , for another minute at a tap-room , and again at a public meeting , where they seemed bent on keeping huddled together all night long , seething and reeking and growing more confused and more determined , the longer they tarried -- Puffer waxed warm , too , and retired to the Fork , with a head full of schemes and a heart all on fire with the sure hope of a triumph . 
But it was at the East-River poll , where Puffer Hopkins labored , that the struggle was steadiest and fiercest ; it was the tie ward , where parties had in the previous election cast an equal vote , and the whole city now hung anxiously upon its returns . 
It was a pleasure to Puffer Hopkins to learn that the cobbler , -- a convert of his own , -- had deposited the first vote , although with such emphasis as to stave in the cover of the ballot-box , and cause himself to be taken into keeping by a couple of officers , who led him , roaring and remonstrating , to a neighboring watch-house . 
Puffer Hopkins , for one , was everywhere ; haranguing ; folding tickets ; diving into committee rooms ; arguing on the curb : was at every man 's ear ; had every man by the hand . 
out popped Puffer , leading by the hand , a couple of misty sailors ; a superannuated old man ; a Quaker that had n't voted for nineteen years , or some other wonder and miracle . 
Puffer Hopkms -- who had won such honor in the late contest -- who was hand and glove with several of the leading members of the committee mittee , was the very man ; and Puffer was invited , to be present , which he graciously acceded to , and requested to be in readiness , by a certain hour , to be put in a hack by a brance of the general committee who would wait upon him to the ball . 
Puffer , who was not sorry to avail himself of so capital an apportunity to extend his fame among the members of a powerful body , was appareled and ready to a minute ; having approached as nearly as was prudent to the costume of his constituents -- he dared not adopt the pyra - mid , nor the flat locks exactly , but he laid aside his straps , and garnished his hat with a broad belt of black ribband . 
With the aid of the committee -- who called for him -- he entered the carriage , two aiding from within by seizing his arms , and two from without by placing a hand against his person , and thrusting it gently forward with a respectful pressure . 
Two large variegated lamps blazed in the front of the gate , to the admiration of one or two hundred observant boys ; the blast of the trumped -- evidently blown by a short-winded gentleman , from teh intermittent nature of his peals -- burst forth ; and Puffer entering , was overwhelmed with the gorgeousness and splendor of the spectacle that broke upon him . 
In the first place , the Garden , to which he was a stranger , was filled with trees -- which was a novelty in a New-York public garden -- some short and bushy , others tall and trim , but actual trees ; then there were a thousand eyes or better lurking and glaring out in every direction , in the shape of blue and yellow and red and white lamps , fixed among the trees and against the stalls ; then there was a fountain ; and then , through two rows of poplars , commanding a noble perspective of two white chimney-tops in the rear , there stretched a floor -- the ball-room floor itself . 
This time he was borne by the committee -- who stud : close to his person -- into a private path , so dart ; and shady that a deed of blood might have been quietly clone upon him ; winding in and out among the shrubs whenever any of the company -- the more tender-hearted of whom affected the place in couples -- until they reached the extremity of the garden opposite that at which they had entered The chairman of the committee gave a low whistle -- there was a burst of music from the orchestra , who swarmed in a box mid-way among the trees , like so many robin redbreasts , and Puffer found himself upon a platform his hat in his hand , his hand upon bis waistcoat where his heart lay , bowing to a large assemblage of both sexes , who stood gathered upon the floor waving handkerchiefs and shouting , shrieking and hallooing a whole menagerie of welcomes . 
From his elevated position Puffer commanded a view of the entire spectacle as it moved forward . 
Upon the floor , arranged in sets of eight each -- which had been momentarily disturbed by his reception , and which were now re-formed -- were a great number of young gentlemen in fancy pantaloons of corduroy , white jean and Nankin close at the knee and flaunting at the ankle , collars rolled tight under the chin over parti-colored neckerchiefs of emphatic blue or red , the smoothed locks cropped close behind , and the customary brass-mounted coats , ornamented with cauliflowers flowers or large monthly roses at the button-holes , and at their sides an equal number of young ladies , some of whom were red-nosed and flat-breasted , and others of a rounded form and great beauty of feature -- in dazzling calicoes , dangling earrings that shone through the night like fire-flies , kerchiefs of an equally emphatic hue spread upon their breast , and ringlets disposed upon their brow with a glossy smoothness that emulated their partners . 
In conclusion , I take the liberty on behalf of our company generally , in saying that we feel ourselves honored by the presence of Puffer Hopkins , Esq. , our distinguished friend and fellow-citizen . 
We do not show him sky-rockets and Bengola lights , but we show him that James Jones has been busy in the arts of peace , with a view to promote the comfort of our beloved preceptor , Mr. De Grand Val . 
Puffer kept his station on the platform , surveying the dance , his thumbs thrust politician-wise in the arm-holes of his vest -- and his eye ranging along from set to set -- when suddenly it came upon an object which fixed it as firmly in his head as if it had been an eye of stone . 
A dark-eyed young lady , only three sets from the stage , of great personal attractions , stood facing a great sturdy-shouldered fellow , who seemed to be her partner in the dance , -LRB- although Puffer would not believe it , -RRB- and where the light of more than a dozen lamps fell upon her face . 
He could not be mistaken . 
It was -- it must be the dark-eyed young lady he had met at Mr. Fishblatt 's entertainment . 
He stepped from the platform and lounged down the floor in company with a member of the committee . 
The dark-eyed young lady and the sturdy-shouldered young gentleman laid their heads together and conferred in a dialect which was in a great measure unintelligible to Puffer Hopkins , but having reference , as he saw by their glances , to the young gentleman across the floor who kept dancing beyond his chalk in spite of the friendly warning of Mr. Marsh . 
As soon as he could address the young lady , without rashly invading the privacy of her interview with Mr. Joe Marsh , Puffer came forward and , begging her hand for the next dance , ' took the place of the sturdy-shouldered Marsh , who withdrew , tugging very fiercely at the ties of his neckcloth , evidently meditating summary death , either to himself or his brawny opposite . 
The dark-eyed young lady immediately entered upon conversation with Puffer -- referred to the entertainment at Mr. not forgetting Alderman Crump nor Mr. Blinker ; touched pleasantly upon their wanderings on the way to her residence ; came down to the present Ball , glanced at its striking points , and all in very chaste , appropriate and elegant language , which startled Puffer not a little when contrasted with her discourse with Mr. Joseph Marsh . 
Puffer Hopkins and his partner bounded forward ; chasséd ; dosa-dos 'd , and balancéd with a vigor and accuracy that were the delight of the whole set . 
He ventured to ask if her father was in the gardens . 
Puffer -- to whom she had been courteously resigned by Mr. Joseph Marsh , who had attended her thither , and who went off in search of Mr. Bill Winship , the obnoxious dancer -- took the dark-eyed young lady 's arm in his , and had long ago set forth . 
Through all of Puffer 's dreams that night there glided a graceful form ; a pair of bright dark eyes glanced hither and thither like meteors , in all the motions of the dance : sometimes he was moving by its side , sometimes it parted from him -- and when she left his hand , ah ! 
how keen a pang shot through his heart ! 
But gliding , and glancing , and full of cheerful images as were his dreams -- whatever the mazes , whatever the turns , the pirouettes , the long country dances , the perspective always closed with the fair dancer 's wearing a great green hood , and an old woman 's head thrust inside , chattering and bobbing up and down . 
He had danced a score or more cotillions , reels , and flings -- always with the same ending , when , at length , the old head seemed somehow to get fixed upon the young shoulders , the old body , without a head , galloped off , and the fair , young form was left , chasséing , doubleheaded , among the trees . 
This was too much for mortal patience to bear , and Puffer waked up . 
His first business , when he had fairly recovered himself , was to recall the dark-eyed young lady , in all her agreeable proportions , one by one , and replace her in his mind as she had been when he had stretched himself to sleep . 
Lately as he had looked upon her , it was something of an effort : at one time he would fix her in a graceful attitude bending forward to move -- her head slightly turned back towards him -- but then the eyes , or the motion of the arm , or the smile that had played upon her lip , would escape him , and he would begin again . 
When he reached the house of Mr. Fishblatt , the door , in compliment to the pleasant weather , stood wide open and Puffer , having established a sufficient friendship to warrant it , proceeded at once to the small supplemental room in the rear ; where Mr. Halsey Fishblatt held his lair . 
His attention was so entirely engrossed that , notwithstanding the unusual gloss and neatness of Puffer 's apparel , he merely nodded to him as he came in , and , unfixing one of his arms , waived him to a seat . 
At this he held forth to Puffer 's gaze first the mammoth sheet , and then the dwarf , and brandishing them in the air , proceeded : `` This '' -- referring to the small sheet -- '' is edited by a couple of overgrown boys in Williamsburg , who do their own press-work -- and this by an undergrown man in Ann-street , who does his thinkinh on the other side of the Atlantic . 
Mr. Fishblatt turned to Puffer : the damp-haired stranger , released from the steadfastness of his gaze , hastily resumed his hat -- to the crown of which he had restored his paper -- and escaped to dispense his news in some other quarter of the town . 
Puffer , who had stood aside , pondering in his own way , on the subject of the Upper Wabash , and , turning it about in his mind till he got it in a light that pleased him , looked at Mr. Fishblatt , but made no answer . 
But when Mr. Fishblatt added , `` I 'll go and see my friend , Mr. Samuel Sammis , and have this explained -- will you join me , Puffer ? '' 
Now this alacrity , on the part of Puffer -- must we confess it ? 
The first object that fixed the attention of Puffer as they entered , was the dark-eyed young lady herself , busy fashioning portentous capitals , in white thread , upon a long red banner or bunting ; and at her ear that everlasting old woman , whispering away , apparently , at the rate of a page a minute at least . 
There were other young ladies , each diligent with her scissors and needle , clipping , binding , patching ; none seemed to be engaged in the literary department but the dark-eyed young lady , and not one , in Puffer 's eye , was half as fair as she ! 
There was one small and gentle , with auburn hair and lucid blue eyes ; another round and plump ; another quite stately , with wild a flashing look ; -- there seemed to be a mould in his heart , and no other image would fit it but that one . 
The dark-eyed young lady smiled a welcome to Puffer -- turned to the old lady at her side , and whispering the words `` my aunt , '' as an introduction , invited him to a seat . 
To this question the old lady made answer that Samuel was at the Scales ; that he was very busy at this season ; that she would call him in if Mr. Fishblatt would like to see him ; and jumping up , in a minute more , would have put her head forth towards the river , and summoned moned him ; but on Mr. Fishblatt 's entreaty she refrained , and he went out to seek him for himself : Finding the field clear for conversation , Puffer addressed himself to the dark-eyed young lady to the effect that she seemed to be a little in public life as well as Mr. Fishblatt , judging by the use to which she was putting the bunting on which she was at work . 
During this narrative , Fanny glanced stealthily at Puffer , and blushed as deep a red as the silk she was at work upon . 
Before Puffer could enter upon a vindication of the young lady , which he fully meditated , the little old lady sprang up from her chair , ran into the corner of the room where a green shrub of some kind or other was vegetating in a blue tub , and called Puffer after her . 
Then the old aunt -- who seemed to have taken a sudden fancy to Puffer -- caused a sampler to be unhooked from the wall , carried it to the light and expatiated upon it at equal length . 
Mr. Samuel Sammis was a foxy-looking little gentleman , in drab pants and a weather-washed blue coat , his hair was thin , his linen questionable , and when he came forward to greet Puffer , his face was a cobweb of smiles . 
`` I 'm very happy to see you , sir , '' he said ; `` I knew you well by reputation , although I had n't had the honor to be personally acquainted . 
`` You think it all important , '' said Mr. Sammis , addressing Puffer after a pause , during which the business of the table had been diligently prosecuted ; `` You think it all important to carry our next state election ? '' 
responded Puffer . 
asked Puffer , having in mind a political common-place which he was quite sure Mr. Sammy Sammis would quote upon him . 
echoed Puffer , `` and we must make what we can out of the Upper Wabash , at the first election that 's held . '' 
It was not easy to keep Puffer 's mind to the subject : his eyes wandered constantly to the quarter where a certain young lady was seated : so that he was soon dropped out of the discourse , leaving Messrs. Sammis and Fishblatt to keep it up in their own way . 
Puffer 's glances were not entirely unnoticed or unrewarded . 
When they had returned to the sewing-room she exhibited to Puffer another flag on which she had wrought the words `` For Congress , '' with a blank underneath for the name of the candidate . 
`` I wish I were allowed to fill it up , '' she said , looking at Puffer . 
Puffer felt his heart beat quick , but did not venture to ask whose name it would bear . 
answered Puffer , calling to mind his poor neighbor , and the gentle quietude of his little chamber . 
Puffer had walked with Miss Fanny into the other room , where , in a recess behind the door , stood an old red piano . 
Miss Fanny , with Puffer at her side , struck the first few notes with a bold hand , as Mr. Sammis desired -- but presently , as in spite of herself , a gentler air crept upon the keys , and , instead of a cotillion , she was playing a pathetic ditty . 
She essayed the tune ; but the notes came again softened from her fingers , and seemed sighing back to the words that Puffer breathed gently in her ear . 
At a late hour , Mr. Fishblatt , who , being a slow and solid dancer , had , to the surprise of all parties , carried the day , called for his hat ; had Mr. Sammis aside in a whispered conversation , with occasional glances at Puffer , for a quarter of an hour ; and , gallantly kissing the old aunt , summoned Puffer , and left . 
The spectacle -- could he have looked upon it as an observer -- would have doubtless seemed to Puffer infinitely more agreeable than that of the old aunt with her wrinkled visage inside of the dark-eyed young lady 's hood . 
Marching arm in arm with Mr. Fishblatt , it is well known that Puffer put several pointed and searching questions to that gentleman , the answers to which were to the effect that Mr. Sammy Sammis was an incessant letter-writer to all parts of the state ; a wire-puller and waker-up of counties and villages ; that Miss Fanny was his only child , the old lady , his aunt , and Fanny 's grand-aunt -- and being an unincumbered woman , with a round sum out at interest , Fanny was her favorite . 
After procuring which results , Puffer fell silent , and although Mr. Fishblatt addressed him in several most elaborate and animated harangues , he kept on musing , till they parted for the night . 
At this moment the door opened ; a young gentleman of an ashen aspect , sandy hair , and a look of strenuous cunning about the eye , came in , and behind him , treading lightly , and with a mournful look , Puffer Hopkins . 
While Puffer looked sorrowfully upon Martha and Fob , the young gentleman busied himself in slashing the feathers of a quill which he had brought with him , and in peering about the apartment for an inkstand . 
Puffer avoided his question , and asked whether it was absolutely necessary to disturb him now ; he seemed to be in great pain . 
suggested Puffer . 
Puffer , standing aside , dwelt upon Fob and his pale companion , holding his breath lest he should disturb them . 
Quick feet , clattering up , were heard upon the stairs , and Hobbleshank came hurrying in ; at first he started in surprise when he saw Martha , but recovering himself speedily , he stepped about the chamber , shaking hands with the young gentleman , then with Puffer , and , last of all , accosting Martha . 
`` This , then , is your friend , '' said he , smiling upon her . 
The young gentleman had drawn up the curtain ; led Martha and Puffer aside , to get rid of their shadows upon the bed ; and himself retreated behind a little screen at the head of the bed , from which bower there issued , from time to time , a scratching sound . 
He called Puffer to his aid , who going over it slowly line by line , made known its contents . 
When Puffer came to the passage relating to his child , he made him pause and read it over twice , looking up into the reader 's face with a look of indescribable satisfaction . 
It was his old deed and no other . 
`` Eighteen years ago , '' said Fob , as soon as Hobbleshank could be brought to take his seat again by the bed-side , `` there was an old , sorrow-stricken man , travelling by the shore of the Sound . 
asked Hobbleshank , from whose mind all recollection of the occurrence -- so fast had troubled thoughts and times huddled upon him -- had entirely faded . 
His strength was utterly gone , and ere Martha could reach his side , he lay , his arms stretched out , his head fixed and rigid on the pillow . 
They all thought he was dead . 
In a little while -- Martha ministering what she could to bring him back -- a faint color came into his cheek , his eyes opened again upon the light ; but now their expression was changed . 
His mind was gone astray . 
He babbled incoherently of the green fields -- the old coach -- the homestead ; sometimes he repeated the name of Martha -- then he had another upon his tongue , but shuddering , it died away before it was uttered . 
Whenever his hands , straying about the covering of his bed , fell upon any one of his country treasures -- he came back and talked of early times . 
It would be a great wrong to Puffer -- colored as were all his acts by some hue of his trade -- to suppose that the death of his poor neighbor had not touched him nearly . 
Puffer felt that a dear friend was dead . 
He would have helped , with other ready hands , to lay him in a quiet grave ; but when he would have offered aid , the body -- which Martha had watched alone , refusing , even angrily , all aid or company -- was gone , no one could tell whither . 
It had been borne forth secretly at dusk ; and one of the children , who had been out at play upon the Meadows , brought news that he had seen it upon the shoulders of two men , in the suburbs , gliding toward the country , with Martha watching and following it alone . 
With the kindliest remembrance of his poor friend , Puffer was not permitted long to rest ; the pressure from without forced upon him other thoughts . 
His fortunes were on the advance , and he would set apart a quiet hour , at some better day , to think of the little tailor and his virtues . 
The orators of Puffer 's party -- the Bottomites -- having mastered their cue -- went all lengths in denouncing it as an infraction of the rights of citizens -- an invasion of the Constitution -- an act of the most high-handed despotism ; and foremost and conspicuous among these was Puffer himself . 
He was the very embodiment of the Anti-Upper-Wabash feeling ; and he was nominated to the vacancy . 
Was there ever a more extraordinary character known -- in history ancient or modern , sacred or profane -- than Puffer Hopkins , now that he was nominated to Congress on the eve of a decisive contest ? 
The newspapers -- morning , noon and night -- teemed with his praises . 
Little , obscure , out-of-the-way circumstances in his history , were dragged forth and made the occasion of the most flattering comment and allusion . 
Some one or other had discovered his habit of visiting the city cellars in quest of oysters ; he was immediately styled the Patriot of the Pie-houses . 
He had caught , one afternoon , in company with a crew of political cronies , a small car-full of striped bass and Lafayette fish , in the East river , and was declared the Hero of Kipp 's Bay . 
Puffer , not to be outdone by Mr. John Blinker , canvassed the markets in opposition to the churches ; and having drilled a small company of young vagabonds , he made a circuit of the market-places on Saturday nights with these -- their rags flying to the wind , and an expression of doleful gratitude in their faces -- running at his heels ; Puffer keeping in the advance , and from time to time ordering a cutlet , or steak , or tender-loin to be cast in . 
This was so well enacted that he had not made a tour of the markets more than twice , before he had the butchers in tears , and swearing by liver-and-lights , their own tender-loins , and all that they hold holiest , that Puffer was an angel , with a heart as big as an ox . 
There was one that toiled in Puffer 's behalf more like a spirit than a man ; a little shrunken figure , that was every where , for days before the canvass -- an universal presence breathing in every ear the name of Puffer . 
There was not a tap-room that he did not haunt ; no obscure alley into which he did not penetrate , and make its reeking atmosphere vocal with his praises . 
At night-fall he would mix with crowds of ship-wright 's prentices and laborers , and kindle their rugged hearts with the thought of the young candidate . 
Before he left , in nine cases of ten , they gave their hands for Puffer , sometimes even rising and confirming it with a cheer that shook the house , and brought their messmates thronging in from the neighborhood , when the story would be recited to them by a dozen voices , and new recruits to Puffer 's side enrolled . 
Then , again , he would be told of an old sick sailor in an upper chamber -- tied there by racking pains in his joints , answering , they would say , each wrench to the trials his old ship 's timbers were passing through on the voyage she was now out upon -- and mounting up , he would find him busy in his painful leisure , building a seventy-six , razeed to the size of a cock-boat , for the landlord 's mantle . 
Gaining upon him by degrees , Hobbleshank would sit at his side ; and by-and-by , when he saw it would be kindly taken , gathering up a thread of twine or two , and helping to form a length of cable or rigging . 
By the time a dozen ropes were fashioned he would have a promise from the old sea-dog that he would show his teeth at the polls when roll-call came . 
In the very midst of these silent labors of Hobbleshank , Puffer was at his desk meditating a letter from an imaginary constituent to himself , and had got as far as `` To the Honorable Puffer Hopkins , M. C. , '' when there filed into his chamber three gentlemen , who , looking about for a moment and discovering that there were not chairs enough to hold them all , drew themselves up in a line and stood before him . 
Puffer , quite equal to the emergency , rose from his desk and faced his platoon of visiters . 
`` We have come , sir , '' said the long-armed gentleman , reaching forth convulsively to the chair from which Puffer had risen , drawing it before him and fastening both hands firmly on its top ; `` We have come , sir , to express our respect for your past public career -- our admiration of the unflinching fortitude with which you have adhered to objects '' -- `` Yes , sir -- to objects , '' interposed the stout gentleman , cutting in as if he thought the long-armed man was getting more than his share ; `` Yes , sir -- to objects of a profoundly patriotic character ; and , sir , we feel the honor of being delegated to wait upon you for the purpose of testifying the interest with which your course has been watched , not only , sir , '' he pursued , thrusting his left hand into his coat and spreading it upon a ruffled bosom ; `` not only , sir , by the friends of good order and correct principles -- of advanced age -- but also '' -- `` By the rising generation ; '' continued the tall gentleman , groping earnestly in the bottom of his frock-coat pockets , and drawing himself up to his full height . 
The three orators had put Puffer in possession of their errand , and he had a shrewd guess -- as one of them was an alderman , and the others assistants -- that this was one of those cases where a committee had been unable to agree upon a mouth-piece , and had compromised the difficulty by distributing the speech , as fairly as they could , in three parts . 
Puffer looked out too . 
`` How are you , Hopkins ? '' 
Open the ring , Jenkins -- stand back there , Tom Smith ; '' and , falling away as they were bidden , Mr. Gallipot came forward and seized Puffer cordially by the hand . 
There was no quarrel for precedence ; the mayor , with Puffer at his right hand , seized the head of the table ; the others fell into chairs , whose locality they seemed to have pitched upon long before , and , seated once , they filled them so happily , one might have sworn they were born , each man , for the particular windsor or rush-bottom he occupied . 
And now that the table was full , Puffer was not a little surprised -- but quite as well pleased -- to see his old friend Hobbleshank handsomely laid between a couple of aldermen , with whom he seemed to have a good understanding , at the other end . 
And when , further on , his honor , allowing scarce a breath between , followed this up with , `` Our distinguished guest and next member -- Puffer Hopkins '' -- a fearful tempest swept the table from end to end ; and one or two of the lighter quid-nuncs were even lifted from their feet , and landing upon the table , shook the glasses and bottles till they danced with them with joy . 
They felt grateful to Puffer for furnishing them so plausible an opportunity to investigate the economy of so excellent a city charity . 
Puffer was bound , of course , to respond to these admirable sentiments . 
Really , -LRB- this was the train of his observations -RRB- he never felt so oppressed in his life in rising to speak ; he was surrounded by kind and generous friends . 
He was their creature -- they had taken him a poor friendless youth and made him what he was . 
Little had he dreamed when making his first humble effort at Fogfire Hall of attaining an honor like this . 
If any one had told him the time would arrive when he should partake of canvass-back and champagne with his honor , the mayor , and the common council of New-York , at the almshouse , he would have laughed at their folly . 
While Puffer was speaking , one or two of the inmates of the place were drawn to the door , and as he advanced in his speech , and looked off in that direction by way of illustration or gesture , he observed that two of them had fixed their attention keenly upon him himself . 
Among these , Puffer , as the jollity grew apace , was called down from his station near Mr. Gallipot ; and it brought him within ear-shot of the group in the passage , who had watched him so strangely in his speech . 
They were still there -- their heads close together , Hobbleshank 's central and busiest of all -- and they still turned from time to time in their talk , and regarded Puffer with the same strange gaze . 
Whatever Puffer , with an ear sharpened by a curiosity he could not control , caught , was so straggling and disjointed , that it conveyed to his mind no distinct impression of their purpose . 
`` I think as you do ; '' he heard Hobbleshank whispering to the others , looking from the woman to the stranger , and then towards himself ; `` I thought so from the first ; but I have been too often mistaken -- I could not bear to be wrong again -- it would kill me , Hetty ; let us be cautious . '' 
He muttered something in a broken and earnest tone -- Puffer could see his lips grow pale and quiver as he spoke -- and leaving them , he hurried up the room and took the place at the table among the friends he had left . 
It was a relief to Puffer to hear what passed among the nurslings in their probation . 
Obliquely from him up the table , an arm 's - length or two , there were a couple whose nursing seemed to try the constitution to an alarming pitch ; and instead of being benefitted in any degree by the dark spirit with whom they held so many close and earnest conferences , they always got back from the interview less robust in person and demeanor than ever . 
Even till midnight , speeches were made by aldermen and p264-276 laymen and ex-sheriffs ; healths -- sometimes of individuals , sometimes a broadside of the table against broadside -- were drained , and Puffer , finding that a sadness had crept upon him , out of all harmony with their mirth , quietly withdrew , leaving his three committee-men on their feet together , and at an advanced stage of champagne , delivering speeches against each other ; and his honor , the mayor , with his bottle-holders squeezing lemons vehemently at each side of him , brewing a drink for which he was famous . 
In the open air , he found the door-way and high steps thronged with paupers , who had kept themselves from bed that they might listen to the uproar and jollification of their masters . 
Puffer thought he had escaped unobserved , but as he entered the carriage he found Hobbleshank at his side , asking to bear him company . 
`` To be sure , '' answered Puffer , `` I would rather ride back with one like you than the three I came up with . '' 
The old man smiled , but was silent , and this silence he maintained till they were half down the city ; and when he began to speak , Puffer observed that his discourse was not of that in which either had an interest , but of remote and indifferent things ; like one unwilling to speak of that which is nearest his heart , and who trifles in this way lest he betray himself . 
The triumph of Puffer was complete : he had carried his election by a handsome majority -- bowling down Mr. John Blinker , majestically as he carried himself , as easily as a nine-pin with a rolling bottom -- Hobbleshank 's strong recruits -LRB- of which Puffer had just now heard -RRB- coming in to give the decisive blow . 
In this , the Hero of Kipp 's Bay -- the redoubtable Champion of New-York -- the illustrious Hopkins himself , stood up , and removing his hat , waved it pleasantly to the crowd , at full arm 's length , as though he was bailing up their cheers , and pouring them out of the hat into the barouche . 
High above his head danced the banner wrought by the dark-eyed young lady -- the blank filled as she had wished -- `` Uncompromising Hostility to the Clearing of the Wabash . 
-- For Congress , Puffer Hopkins , the Hero of New-York ! '' 
In the carriage with Puffer rode Mr. Halsey Fishblatt , who had assumed a clean ruffle , of extraordinary dimensions , and whose very waistcoat seemed swelling and ready to burst with a speech , with which he was no doubt prepared to explode the moment he should be touched . 
This business over -- Mr. Blinker done to a turn -- to the entire satisfaction of every body present , there was a loud call upon Puffer Hopkins for a speech ; which call his associate , Mr. Halsey Fishblatt , was quite anxious to respond to . 
And while Puffer kept his seat , Mr. Fishblatt mounted to his legs in answer to the summons . 
There was the broad sky above them -- the surging sea of heads -- the Goddess of Justice , in snow-white wood , at his back -- the streaming banner and refulgent transparency of Fogfire Hall in front -- and , by no means least of all , the two pure barrels of Hudson , and two of reeking Upper Wabash , under his very eye , upon the trucks ; -- could Puffer fail out of all these to frame a triumphant speech ? 
He could not , and , as he concluded , three peals , four times renewed , rent the circuit , and made the very pennons rustle in the air . 
At this moment , and while yet there was some show of triumph and rejoicing in the crowd , Puffer 's attention was withdrawn to a dark figure , which , scudding away from the glare of the procession , coasted along the walls , turned a corner and disappeared , as though it had dived into the earth . 
The contrast of this single silent figure , and the great tumultuous crowd , was so marked , that Puffer 's mind was strongly fixed upon it . 
The darkness deepened , and multitudes kept falling off ; among others , Puffer descried Mr. Sammis , as he left his place and passed by , looking up and smiling as he passed . 
`` To see your friends at the Farm-house , I know , '' answered Puffer , bending toward the questioner ; `` but why not come into the carriage with me , and ride out together ? '' 
Puffer did not hesitate -- the pageant was fast growing to an end -- but seizing a favorable pause , escaped to the ground and followed the other cautiously through the crowd . 
Hobbleshank led the way at such eager speed , looking forward to his path and back to Puffer , constantly , that it was some time before the young steps that followed reached him , and when they did , Puffer found him so pale , and shaken by fatigue , it seemed , he begged him to borrow his support . 
Hobbleshank accepted it at once , and , with a smile of hope and trust in his look as he turned to answer , leaned upon Puffer , and they pursued their way . 
Hobbleshank and Puffer drew closer to each other 's side at every step . 
answered Puffer . 
`` To be sure I am , '' continued Puffer . 
Although this was spoken in a cheerful tone , he drew a hard breath as it escaped him . 
`` Not much , '' answered Puffer . 
Puffer was startled by the old man 's eagerness , and seeing with how anxious a look he hung upon him , he answered at once : `` Oh , no -- never that -- I meant merely that my childhood had neither father nor mother 's care ; and can there be life without them ? 
`` The boatman 's wife , or some one that was near to him died , '' continued Puffer , wondering at the old man 's enthusiasm . 
`` His name is Puffer Hopkins ; and when he 's of age let him draw this check . '' 
`` I do n't believe he was , '' answered Puffer , laughing . 
`` I suppose it was , '' answered Puffer . 
All life and motion were arrested for the time ; every thing was at a pause but Puffer and Hobbleshank ; they were moved by impulses , it would seem , not to be stayed or dampened even by a disastrous darkness , or the obscuration of the sky . 
They came to a steep road , and as they climbed this , Hobbleshank clung closer than ever to Puffer . 
The moment they came in sight of this , the old man trembled as with an ague , and fell upon Puffer 's arm for support . 
They were almost at its threshhold , when Hobbleshank , arresting Puffer , they paused , and the old man turned so as to look him full in the face . 
How the old man 's look was renewed to youth by these few words , and shined in Puffer 's . 
Puffer knew something of the old man 's mood , and followed him silently as he led the way . 
There had been cheerful voices from within the house , but when it was known that Hobbleshank and Puffer were at hand , a dead stillness fell upon the place ; it was as if the old house itself listened , in expectation of what was to be told . 
While Hobbleshank walked the old hall , the dim figures on its walls , watching him , as he might regard them as so many good spirits , or evil spectres , Puffer found himself in a small room , an ante-chamber , with two persons , one a woman , stout , hale , and of middle age ; the other a man , spare of person , and of a sorrowful and forlorn look . 
`` It 's Paul -- little blackberry Paul -- although the berry 's worn out in course of time , '' said the woman , speaking first , and closely perusing Puffer 's features ; `` Do you know us ? '' 
Puffer 's mind was sorely vexed and troubled ; he knew them , and yet it seemed he knew them not , for he could call neither by name . 
`` If I dared to hope it , '' he answered at length , scrutinizing his countenance , `` I might say this is my early friend who brought me to be a boy seven years old ; but I do n't believe it ! '' 
said the woman , somewhat cast down by the inequality of Puffer 's memory ; `` you sartainly have n't forgot Hetty -- Hetty Simmons , it was then , Hetty Lettuce now -- your old nurse ? 
After a while Puffer -- she pressed him to it -- admitted that he caught now and then a tone in her voice that he ought to know . 
said Puffer . 
Hetty held in her hand a half bracelet ; in a minute more she had Puffer 's ; -- they were matches , as she had guessed ; the same auburn hair -- the same golden clasp . 
She threw open the door -- Hobbleshank stood there like one in a swoon , white and trembling , his two hands hanging like dead branches at his side . 
At this bidding Hobbleshank staggered across the doorsill , and casting himself upon Puffer 's neck , muttered brokenly , `` My son -- my son ! '' 
The tears fell from his old lids like rain . 
With halting words , with tears and passionate embraces , Hobbleshank made known to Puffer the chances of his past life , how his mother died -- he did not tell him all , there were dreadful words he could not trust himself with -- how he was lost -- how in twenty years he had often thought his child found again , but was so often sore baffled , and almost broken in hope . 
From the first , he felt that Puffer was his child and no other ; he dared not claim him till the last rivet fastened him back , as it had to-night . 
For many hours they had lingered together , dwelling upon the past , so full of hope and fear and strange vicissitude , when Hobbleshank , starting up as though it had just come into his mind , said -- `` What will they think of us ? 
He led him along the hall , and , with his hand in his own , they entered another room , larger than the first , where a company sate , in an attitude of expectation , looking toward the door , and watching it as it opened . 
It was Hobbleshank and his long lost , new-found son . 
They looked upon him whom they had all known as Puffer -- now that he was Paul , and the old man 's child -- with new eyes . 
How kind in Hobbleshank , to bring together such , and such only , as he knew Puffer -LRB- for so we love to call him still , -RRB- would most desire to meet . 
Not far from these , something of a shadow in their midst , was Puffer 's early friend , the forlorn stranger ; and Mrs. Hetty Lettuce , who had not altogether recovered her spirits from the shock of not being recognized by her boy and nursling . 
But who were next -- to whom Puffer gave his earliest gaze -- where his eye lingered so long ? 
Puffer shook hands with them one and all : as if he were starting the world anew , and wished to set out well . 
Puffer placed a chair by her side : she seized both his hands in hers , regarded him steadily for some minutes , and then said , still gazing , `` How like his mother ! 
There was a close and whispered interview on Puffer 's part with the dark-eyed young lady , which , strain their ear as they might , was pitched in far too gentle a key to be gue sed at by any round , unless it might have been the smart little aunt who sat by , brightening up as it advanced as though it afforded her infinite satisfaction to see how close and whispered it was . 
`` I buried my only daughter , '' said the sorrowful boatman , when Puffer questioned him , `` many months ago -- you remember her -- your little play-fellow -- whose blue eyes you used to watch so closely ? '' 
Puffer did -- but years had changed the hue of his mind , and with that the color of the eye that fixed his fancy most . 
The sorrowful stranger sighed and Puffer turning away , with some kindly thought at his heart , fell into the hands of Mrs. Lettuce , who stood near by with a candle and motioned Puffer to follow her . 
She crossed the room and led him into a small chamber at its side . 
The chamber , unlike the other parts of the house he had seen , was unfurnished ; it held nothing more than a low , narrow bed , a tattered blanket , and a few broken bed cords , trailing upon the floor . 
It was cold and damp , and a chill struck through Puffer as his companion closed the door and shut them in , what seemed to Puffer , from the first moment , a hideous place . 
`` This is a devil , as you say , '' said Puffer , from his closed teeth , while the sweat started to his brow . 
gasped Puffer . 
Puffer stood gazing upon the bed , with a blanched face and glassy eye , and rigid in every limb . 
Hetty would not let him dwell upon it longer , but taking him by the arm led him gently back . 
So pale and unearthly was his look and action when he came forth , they all gathered about and asked what sudden sickness it was that shook him so . 
`` Nothing -- nothing , '' he answered . 
Before they could put further question , Hobbleshank entereated them to pardon him for a while , and drew Puffer away . 
It heaved above the earth , and Hobbleshank , laying his hand upon its top , said to Puffer , `` This is your mother 's grave . '' 
Hobbleshank led Puffer again into the little chamber . 
`` I have a favor to ask of my child , '' he said , `` but one -- and that he will not fail to grant -- I am sure , am I ? '' 
To be sure he was , let him ask any thing he chose . 
Puffer had n't thought of such a thing ; twenty-five years to come would be time enough . 
The young lady was in the other room -- the parson at hand -- how could it be avoided -- he 'd like to know from Puffer how it was to be avoided ? 
Puffer could suggest no practicable means of escape , and proceeded with the old man to the other room , to be married with as good a grace as he could . 
In half an hour a change had come over the aspect of Puffer 's sky , as great as the eclipse without -- brightening , not darkening all that lay beneath . 
How Mr. Halsey Fishblatt would strike out some grand scheme or other , by which they should hear and know all that the city did or thought or said ; how Mr. Sammy Sammis , and the little old aunt would come out and visit them , twice a week at least , in a new one-horse to be immediately established ; and the poor stranger , too , Puffer 's early friend -- there was a pleasant berth to be thought of for him -- a nice little office Mr. Sammy Sammis had pitched upon in his own mind already , and about which he would see seventeen influential gentlemen to-morrow . 
