One afternoon , however , Martin appeared unusually nervous . 
He could no longer endure Cheesy at his elbow . 
Bending eagerly over the kitchen table , he wrote with something like the old energy he had brought to the task four months before , when his hot brain was full of beggars of Bagdad and ambition . 
Whenever Mrs. Dabney 's back was turned , he was sure to forsake the worn dasher of the little old yellow churn , which stood in the pantry-door , and , stepping forward on tiptoe , stretch his long neck and open his staring eyes over Martin 's shoulder . 
Wider and wider expanded mouth and eyes , and while his neck manifested new powers of extension , he pressed nearer and nearer , until he might have been seen bearing down with his whole weight upon Martin . 
`` Cheesy , '' replied Martin , his face lighting up joyfully , `` can you tell me what year it is ? '' 
Martin set the lad right on the subject of the forgotten number , and charged him to remember it . 
`` Because , '' he added , with a sense of the humorous , `` it is the year in which , as you can tell any one who asks you hereafter , the Romance of The Beggar of Bagdad was written . 
Cheesy occupied some seconds in counting his fingers , while Martin waited for him with a patient smile . 
he suddenly exclaimed , in his coarsest tones , brightening with intelligence . 
said Cheesy , rubbing his knees and grinning , as he doubled himself up before his distinguished friend . 
Martin gave him the exact date of that eventful day , to be treasured in his memory ; and , requesting not to be troubled any more for the present , resumed his writing . 
Did Alphiddi tell Lillifoo 's father -- '' Cheesy 's question was cut short by a box on the ear , which sent him back to the churn with a suppressed howl of pain . 
He continued to mutter revengefully for some moments , but his complaint was drowned in the harsh tones of his step-mother 's voice , as she scolded him for his laziness and disobedience . 
Meanwhile Martin proceeded to describe the exceeding softness of Lillifoo 's shriek , as she sank fainting in the arms of her gallant Alphiddi . 
`` Let me sit here and write half an hour longer , '' replied Martin , gathering up his manuscripts out of the widow 's way . 
Mrs. Dabney was on the point of answering sharply ; but , reflecting that Martin had been thus far quite a profitable boarder , she suffered him to remain in his place . 
He pursued his writing , therefore , while she brought out her ironing-cloths , unrolled a little bundle of sprinkled caps and collars , and spat upon the flat of an iron to try its temperature . 
she exclaimed , in a shrill tone , close to Martin 's ear , `` do you ` tend to that churn ! '' 
`` I am churning , '' he growled . 
`` I can churn without spattering , if you want me to , '' he muttered . 
He did not intend this unfavorable commentary upon his step-mother 's words for any ears save Martin 's . 
Her sense of hearing was sharp , however , and the next moment his own ears tingled with repeated cuffs . 
Mrs. Dabney gave him a final crack on the crown of his head . 
Martin , pained and disturbed , looked up from his writing . 
`` Did n't hurt , '' whispered Cheesy , winking in a style of reckless bravado , putting out his tongue , and squaring off at his step-mother . 
`` I say the butter has come all ' t will , '' he whimpered , looking down and churning with great assiduity . 
The artifice saved him further punishment , and Mrs. Dabney proceeded with her small ironing . 
She finished the slice , and having cut it into three small pieces for the tray , held up the bread-knife , like an interrogation-point , waiting for Martin 's answer . 
he cried , stretching himself , with enthusiasm . 
`` Cheesy , '' said Martin , overflowing with benevolence , `` you shall be gratified . 
Mrs. Dabney , '' -- taking up his manuscripts proudly , and clearing his throat , -- `` will you sit down and hear it ? '' 
The widow said she could hear while she was about her work , and Martin prepared to read . 
He looked over the top of his manuscript , however , as she was placing the tarnished little tea-pot on the stove , to inquire what part that she had already heard pleased her fancy most . 
`` I like all that about Alphiddi 's killing the lion , '' broke in Cheesy , in his ragged voice . 
`` And where he swum the river with a dagger ` tween his teeth ; and his telling Lillifoo all about himself , when she thinks she is talking with a beggar ; and about his hiding in the island -- '' He stopped suddenly and began to churn , having observed the significant glance his mother gave him , as she hastily returned the tea-canister to its place . 
Martin smiled , and , thanking her for the compliment , began to read . 
``` -- shook from their melodious throats , ' '' Martin went on , ``` a perfect shower of sweet sounds , which fell refreshingly upon her sorrowful soul . 
`` It 's a couple of beggars , -- beggars of Bagdad , I guess , '' he whispered , with a broad grin , over his shoulder . 
Martin hastened to look out . 
He saw a middle-aged man , with a care-worn , haggard face , leading a little girl . 
The mendicant was meanly dressed ; he carried an oaken staff in his hand , and bore a pack strapped upon his shoulders . 
Martin felt hurt . 
To see the lessons of charity he had taken so much pains to inculcate in `` The Beggar of Bagdad '' so soon forgotten by the first persons to whom they had been imparted , wounded both his benevolence and his self-esteem . 
Besides , he naturally felt a professional interest in that class of persons to which Alphiddi had joined himself in the Romance . 
He accordingly laid his pen across the manuscript , got up from the table , and went to the door . 
`` Go in , Cheesy , '' said he . 
I 'm ashamed of you , '' -- pushing him back . 
His voice failed him , and , placing his arm with a tender and protecting touch upon the girl 's shoulder , he drew her affectionately towards him . 
`` She is blind , '' he added , with emotion which could not have been feigned . 
`` It may be , '' said the mendicant , meekly , bowing his head . 
he articulated , fingering the curls upon her neck convulsively . 
Tears of passionate sorrow rushed to his eyes , and , running swiftly down his cheeks , fell into her soft brown hair . 
she murmured , hiding her face in his rags , and clinging to his side , `` do n't cry ! 
There was such meekness in her attitude , as she did so , and such sweet sadness -- such patient sorrow -- in her pale young face , that Martin could no longer control his impulses . 
His hand went instinctively into his pocket , and brought forth some small pieces of money , which he proffered as the beggar was turning dejectedly away . 
`` Take this , '' he said , hurriedly . 
The beggar shook his head , and drawing the child towards him with the same air of touching tenderness Martin had before observed , walked slowly from the door . 
The latter turned , as if he would speak ; but he could only bow his head and move his lips inaudibly , and look gratefully at Martin through tears . 
And so he went away , with his staff shaking in his hand , and his fingers moving again convulsively in the blind girl 's waving hair . 
Martin went in and closed the door . 
`` I never thought whether I could afford it or not , '' replied Martin , coloring slightly . 
`` I do n't believe , '' said Martin , with a good-humored smile , `` that I 've got over a dollar in the world . 
Let me see , '' counting some change in his hand . 
`` I believe , '' observed Martin , with dignity , `` I am indebted to you now for only one week 's board . '' 
`` Le ' 's hear that ` ere last chapter out , '' he added , in a louder tone , `` any way . '' 
Cheesy looked outrageously indignant at this slur upon `` The Beggar , '' and grasped the dasher fiercely , as if he would have liked to knock his mother down with the churn . 
She began to talk more reasonably , and inquired how Martin expected to be able to make a journey and live in a city without money . 
He spoke with beautiful ingenuousness , whereat Mrs. Dabney who was very practical , smiled somewhat sarcastically . 
he asked . 
`` In the morning , '' resumed the sanguine Martin , `` I shall set out for Boston . 
Remembering that her brother Simeon kept a boarding-house , and entertaining rather narrow notions of city life , it struck her that his would naturally be the first place at which Martin would apply for board . 
The discovery of Martin 's poverty had not tended to soften the widow 's heart . 
He did not foresee the calamity which threatened him , however , as she turned deliberately to enter the wood-shed , but entertained Martin the while by shutting up an eye , screwing up one side of his face , and putting his tongue out of the corner of his mouth . 
He also defied her valiantly with his fist ; and afterwards , placing a thumb on his nose , and playing violent shakes with his fingers , turned an imaginary organ-crank with his other hand . 
In the midst of the last operation Mrs. Dabney surprised him ; when , with an instantaneous change of manner , he appeared seriously busy at the churn , while he scratched his nose with an air of unimpeachable innocence . 
But meekness availed him nothing . 
In vain did Cheesy dodge , and put up his elbows , and hold up one foot , and dance around the pantry , and yell with pain at every successful blow inflicted on head or hands or legs ; she continued to beat him , growing more and more vindictive , until , in a final effort to escape , he overturned the churn . 
Instantly a small river of cream flooded the kitchen floor and Martin 's feet . 
The widow uttered a suppressed cry , at which Cheesy made a desperate plunge through her arms , forded the stream , and made three creamy tracks on his way to the wood-house , where he keeled out of the door , falling upon his head , arms and knees , in a heap . 
Mrs. Dabney followed , stick in hand ; and Martin , not fully appreciating the entertainment , hastened to wipe his feet with a newspaper , took his hat from the pole , and left the house by the front-door . 
MARTIN found the open air more congenial to his feelings . 
The quiet village street , the homely fences , the old bridge over the brook , and the ostentatious field trees , which hung out their fluttering , gaudy shreds of gold and scarlet , refreshed him as he passed along . 
It was a grand sky to rear airy castles in , and you may be sure Martin improved the occasion . 
His past had been a strange one , full of suffering and trial ; but it was nothing to him now . 
All the mystery and trouble which had attended his childhood , the pale ghosts of disappointment and bad genii of passion which had since beset his spirit , were quite forgotten . 
The glorious future , which his warm soul upreared in the sunset sky , was all he felt or saw . 
On his return to the cottage , -- the two front windows of which , that evening , looked more than ever like the widow 's eyes , -- he was met at the gate by Cheesy . 
Martin laughed at the poor fellow cheeringly , and , by way of encouragement , gave him his knife , which he had always admired . 
Cheesy grinned a moment over the present ; then began to snivel , as the feeling came over him that he was about to lose his only friend . 
`` I shall hate to have you go , the hardest kind , '' he articulated in his sleeve . 
I got away from her real slick , jes ' now , '' he added , with a grin of cunning ; `` but I suppose '' -- glancing apprehensively at the house -- `` I shall have to ketch it when she gits hold of me . 
She ha n't hurt me much yit , but -- '' At that moment Mrs. Dabney appeared at the door , and , brandishing the hickory stick , requested Martin to seize that good-for-nothing , deliver him into her hands , and oblige her . 
whispered Martin . 
She did as desired , and withdrew ; but the moment Cheesy set foot upon the steps , she darted out upon him . 
cried he , jumping upon the fence , `` and I wo n't milk , to pay you for ` t. Oo-oo-o -- o ! '' 
crowing like a cock , and flapping his arms . 
Mrs. Dabney smothered her indignation , -- to use a mild word , -- and returned to the kitchen , followed by Martin . 
The widow took no apparent notice of him , but went on writing with great slowness and difficulty , and with painful contortions of her mouth , which Cheesy imitated with grotesque grimaces , for Martin 's entertainment . 
`` If you 'll have Mr. Mer ` vale read that ` ere last chapter , '' said he , `` then I 'll go and milk . 
The widow doubled up the sheet in awkward folds , sealed it with a big wafer , stamped it with her thimble , superscribed it with great care and deliberation ; and having held it up to the window to criticize it , delivered it to Martin . 
The young man expressed his thanks , and wished to know if there was anything he could do for her in return . 
Of course you 'll get rich , and make your mark , and -- '' Watching Cheesy , with her revengeful thoughts on him , she let her voice sink to a disagreeable mutter . 
Martin quite mistook her meaning . 
he echoed , quickly . 
said Martin , relieved . 
Meanwhile Cheesy , to show his contempt for his step-mother 's authority , was practising the audacious trick of putting his foot over his head , after the manner of circus-riders . 
For once he carried his insolence too far . 
Suddenly the widow rushed upon him , and , seizing him before he could disengage his ankle from his neck , beat him until he roared for mercy . 
Never before had Martin known Cheesy to receive so severe a punishment . 
He was on the point of interfering , to prevent fatal consequences , when the boy , by a desperate manœuvre , overturned his step-mother on a pile of potatoes , and ran , bellowing with pain and terror , out of the shed . 
Nor did the discovery that he had worn off his Sunday roundabout , fustian trousers , and the shoes Martin gave him , taking with him his two extra shirts and other valuables , and leaving his every-day rags in the bed , console her for his loss . 
Her threats at the time would have made Cheesy 's heart sink , miles away , could they have reached his ears ; nor had they ceased exploding fitfully from her angry lips when the young author took leave of her and set out upon his journey . 
Martin slung his bundle on a staff , shouldered it , and passed through the door-yard gate , just as the sun was rising . 
The fresh , ruddy rays came out of the luminous east , bearing golden associations of the land wherein his fancy had revelled so long , and welcomed him with faint kisses on his hopeful face . 
It was the most joyous day his soul had ever seen arise ; and never , in his happiest moments , had he beheld so many rainbows overarching his future , and paving his path with light . 
But whether it was printed in fast colors , which no rainy days could cause to fade , nor cold water of experience wash out , nor changeful weather bleach , Martin had yet to learn . 
With his thread-bare coat buttoned across his chest , and his white hat -- two seasons behind the style -- tipped jauntily against the sun , he gayly went his way . 
At length , as Martin approached a clump of sumachs that grew by the fence , he heard somebody whistling , to a slow and mournful measure , the `` Road to Boston ; '' and presently a face appeared , looking through a cluster of crimson leaves . 
he asked . 
Add to this his smeared and wrinkled-up face , and one can readily appreciate the convulsed feelings with which the sympathetic Martin regarded his companion . 
I 'd a good notion to set the house afire ; I could , '' he added , showing a bunch of matches . 
He grinned , with his face still shining in spots where he had wiped it ; but the next moment he relapsed again into a convulsing sense of his sufferings , and sobbed , and ducked his head , and used his sleeve as before . 
Martin meanwhile earnestly counselled his immediate return . 
he burst forth , with anguish . 
Martin smiled , and patted the lad 's shoulder kindly , and told him that experience would teach him never to build castles in the air . 
Hedid not , of late years , he said , quite seriously . 
cried Martin . 
He giggled and capered around Martin delightedly ; but his afflictions were still so recent , that he was obliged more than once to duck his head , strain up his sleeve and whet his oozy face upon it , as before . 
asked Martin , laughing , but winking away a tear of sympathy at the same time . 
The lad obeyed , giggling , and walked before Martin joyfully and proudly , like a young soldier . 
he asked presently , grinning over his left shoulder . 
Martin said he supposed it was because hislips would n't pucker . 
`` At you , and at myself too , '' replied Martin , in capital spirits . 
I believe , '' glancing over his shoulder at his legs , `` these trouses are gitting too small for me . 
The next moment Martin was sorry it occurred to him . 
`` Though I hope I shall not find my companion so terrible in the end , '' he added , `` and so desperately hard to get rid of , as poor Sinbad 's proved to be . '' 
Cheesy giggled again , and marched on gayly , playing an imaginary fiddle over the bundle on his left arm , and breaking away some additional stitches on his shoulder in the enthusiasm of the moment . 
Martin followed with a thoughtful smile , bearing his burden lightly , and humming the air his lips had refused to whistle . 
Then a pleasant old man drove up in a homely old chaise , and fell into conversation with Martin , who told him rather more about his schemes than redounded to his credit ; upon which the benevolent gentleman , advising him kindly to return home with his companion and find some honest employment , bade them good-morning and drove on . 
Breaking it across his knee , he generously offered the largest piece to Martin ; but the latter , on account of conscientious notions touching stolen property , or from prejudice against the general contents of Cheesy 's bundle , respectfully declined the luxury . 
Having counted on affording his friend an agreeable surprise , the lad was a good deal disappointed ; he crammed his mouth with the gingerbread , however , and appeared to enjoy it hugely , notwithstanding his chagrin . 
Cheesy attempted first to use the crown of his hat as a dipper ; but , as it was too leaky to hold water , he concluded to resort to a still more primitive way of drinking . 
He got down upon his face , with his mouth full of gingerbread , and got up again with a dripping nose and chin , bursting out his left knee , and choking and coughing violently . 
Martin daintily drank from a spot a yard or two above , notwithstanding Cheesy 's earnest recommendation of the place where his own features had been dipped , and where several sinking crumbs were still visible . 
The gloom of evening was gathering fast ; the town where Martin had purposed to spend the night was still two miles distant , and Cheesy proposed that they should sleep in the school-house . 
Feeling the necessity of economizing his finances , Martin thought the school-house would , for one night , be preferable to a hotel . 
`` If we can get in , '' he suggested to his companion . 
Cheesy said he would see , and went around to the door , which fronted on the cross-road . 
He came limping back , however , scowling and glancing over his shoulder . 
`` Them very same beggars ` at stopped ' t our house yes ` day are settin ' on the steps , '' said he , in a whisper . 
Martin looked up anxiously at the rainy sky , and , hastening round the corner , met the beggar and his child , as they were setting out again upon the road . 
he asked . 
The wanderer gave Martin a look of surprise , and , touching his hat in humble recognition , said , `` Well , -- very well . '' 
`` It is a bad night , '' returned Martin , glancing at the sweet face of the patient child . 
I only wish for a shelter for my child , '' faltered the man , with a look of anguish , as he tenderly arranged her little hood . 
Martin laid his hand kindly upon the beggar 's arm . 
`` Do n't think of going on with her to-night , '' he said . 
asked Martin , lifting the child carefully up the steps . 
she replied , with a faint smile . 
Her gentle voice touched chords of sympathy deep down in Martin 's heart . 
He pressed her little hand , and stooped to kiss her brow . 
But the beggar hurriedly placed his arm around her , with jealous care , and guided her before him through the entry . 
But Martin and Cheesy went to work , and , with the help of matches and a knife , had soon succeeded in starting a fire . 
Cheesy brought in big arm-fulls of wood , as if he expected to pass a polar winter in the place , and did not mean to be short of fuel . 
Meanwhile Martin assisted his new acquaintance to prepare a resting-place for himself and child . 
`` She must be very weary , '' said Martin , in a low tone . 
Martin , glowing with unusual heat about the face , pleaded guilty to the charge . 
Martin cleared his throat , and , perching himself on a bench , assumed a position favorable to receiving the fire-glow on his manuscript . 
After a few preliminary remarks , he began with the opening chapter ; while Cheesy , who could have listened to fifty consecutive readings of the same pages with unwearied interest , sprawled himself out on the seat beside him , grinning and glowing in the light , and chuckling with pleasure . 
The beggar seemed less susceptible to the beauties of fine writing ; for , after hearing Martin read a few paragraphs , in an eloquent manner , peculiarly adapted to the flowery style of the composition , he relapsed into an abstracted mood , and studied the sweet face of his child , and smoothed her brow , and played tenderly with her soft , warm hair , as she lay smiling faintly on his lap . 
At length Martin paused , to observe the effect of a fine passage on his audience ; and the beggar , looking up with a face overshadowed by grief , remarked that it appeared to be a story of a beggar . 
Martin had purposely suppressed the title , to avoid giving offence ; but Cheesy 's indiscretion exposed him ; and , stammering a little with confusion , he inquired how his new friend liked the subject . 
Martin 's heart swelled with pleasure and pride . 
Martin bit his lip , and put up his manuscript , notwithstanding Cheesy 's earnest protestation against such a proceeding . 
Martin regarded her with deepening interest , quite forgetful of the slight his Romance had received , and asked if she often had such dreams . 
He looked up soon , however , with a face full of emotion , and pointed to Martin 's bundle . 
`` I do n't like it , '' said he , with a sad shake of the head . 
Martin smiled and nodded , as much as to say , `` Criticism is what I like ; I do n't feel hurt ; go on . '' 
`` But , '' cried Martin , who had become intensely interested , `` there are asylums for the blind -- '' The beggar interrupted him . 
Martin bent silently over his bundle , arranging the manuscript sheets , which were afterwards found to have been blistered here and there with tears . 
Having told his story , the beggar manifested little disposition to converse . 
But , long after Martin had lain down upon the bench , with his bundle for a pillow , -- while Alice dreamed and smiled , and Cheesy snored by the stove , -- Caleb Thorne was awake , watching the fire with haggard eyes , and listening to the rain upon the panes . 
Caleb , silent and reserved , seemed jealous of Martin , whom Alice had asked , with sweet simplicity , to walk beside her , because she liked to feel that he was near . 
He could not bear that any other hand than his should touch his child ; and the young man , unwilling to give him pain , walked on with Cheesy , telling Alice , kindly , that he would not leave her far behind . 
This deference to his whim quite humbled Caleb , who came out of his reserve , begged Martin 's pardon , and let him further into his confidence than he had done before . 
Afterwards the two parties travelled side by side , Alice next to Martin , whom she could tell from Cheesy as well as if she saw him , though he never spoke ; and so kept on , beguiling the way with stories and friendly talk , until the city , with its heaped-up roofs around the State-house dome , and windows flashing back the sunset rays like walls of fire , appeared in view . 
Then Martin began to dilate with thoughts of literary glory ; Cheesy burst out of himself , more than ever , with wonder , talking largely ; blind Alice seemed more meek and timid than before , and drooped her head ; while Caleb Thorne , with deepening shadows on his face , looked darkly down upon the ground , and often sucked in his hissing breath ` twixt firm-set teeth . 
asked Martin . 
And , with his facial organs extended with a drinking-in expression of wonder , he elbowed his way along in his tight jacket-sleeves , treading high , and grinning good-naturedly at every supposed friend who laughed at his ludicrous figure . 
Meanwhile the beggar walked fast , and seemed to hold his breath between his teeth . 
he muttered hoarsely . 
A passion worked upon his face and burned in his eyes , as if the demon of his life were torturing him again . 
Elate with hope , and excited by the novel scenes he saw , Martin did not observe the change which had come over Caleb . 
The noise was such , however , that Cheesy did not hear ; but , understanding from Martin 's gestures that he would wait for him there , he twisted his jacket and vest round his bundle , tossed them at his head , and darted away . 
A pair of tight fustian trousers , cotton shirt-sleeves , and leather suspenders , crossed behind , might then have been seen mingling with the crowd ; until , seizing the engine-rope , Cheesy hurried with it round the corner , losing himself as completely , amid the clash and clamor of the alarm , as if he had been suddenly dropped in the streets of Bagdad , -- with which , by the way , he was far more familiar than with the streets of Boston . 
Martin took up the boy 's personal property , which had fallen into the gutter , and watched those crossed suspenders disappearing in the distance with flying legs and arms , until they were no longer to be seen . 
Then , with considerable disgust , he turned to look for his other companions . 
To his astonishment , he saw that they too had disappeared . 
Excited by such a strange crushing together of confusing events , he ran out in the street and glanced hurriedly up and down ; when , standing upon a corner , some rods below , he saw blind Alice , alone , and almost frantic with terror , crying and holding her clasped hands tight upon her face . 
In a minute he was at her side . 
he asked , hurriedly . 
she exclaimed , clinging to him in her wild despair . 
replied Martin . 
And Martin , all unused to city scenes and ways , did not guess that the hand he had had a glimpse of lifting a half-filled glass to eager lips , in the sallow gas-light of a low cellar in the alley close by , was the hand of Caleb Thorne ; and that the money which paid for that , and other drams that followed , was the same himself had placed in the beggar 's palm , with a blessing on his now forsaken child , two nights before . 
UP and down the street went Martin , in an anxious , hurried , unavailing search . 
The strangeness of the scene so wrought upon Martin 's imagination , that he could scarce believe it was not all a dream . 
He had glanced in at shop windows , and around dark corners , and up and down cross streets , for Caleb and Cheesy , keeping watch at the same time over Alice , whom he had left with his property in the doorway of a shoe-store , and taking care that he did not himself get lost , until his head grew dizzy , and he discovered that he had twice put his face into an empty dust-barrel , in the absurd hope of finding something or somebody he was in search of . 
Martin remonstrated , and explained the circumstances of the case . 
The idea of extricating himself from his difficulty in so simple and expeditious a manner had not before entered Martin 's brain . 
He looked at the shopkeeper in astonishment . 
And , having offered it , he retired , leaving Martin more astonished than before . 
The poor blind child 's distress recalled him to himself . 
Martin sheltered her kindly with his arm , and uttered some incoherent words of sympathy and consolation . 
Sobs choked her utterance , but Martin had caught her meaning . 
`` Bewildered fool that I am , '' thought he , `` not to have guessed as much before ! '' 
Once more his eye wandered to the cellar round the corner . 
He remembered the hand he had had a glimpse of in passing , half an hour before , -- the hand that raised a half-filled glass in the gas-light , down in that underground retreat ; and he felt a strong conviction that Caleb Thorne was there . 
Martin descended the steps of the low cellar . 
The door , which had been open when he saw the hand , was closed now ; but he lifted the latch and entered . 
A sallow room , clouded with cigar-smoke , and lighted by a single gas-burner , received him . 
On one side was a row of ancient chairs , and on the other a bar , before which two men were eating raw oysters , while another emptied a glass of liquor down his throat . 
The last stood up beneath the burden of a pack , and , grasping the tumbler fiercely as he drank , steadied himself with a staff . 
`` Mr. Thorne , '' said Martin , laying his hand upon his arm . 
cried Martin , staying his hand . 
`` I am going to take care of his blind child , '' resumed Martin . 
Martin spoke to him kindly , promising to come for him soon . 
`` All right , '' said the bar-tender , in answer to Martin 's appealing look . 
He rested his elbows on the counter , and confronted Caleb , still without any gleam or glimmer of pity in his face . 
Trusting to the honor and conscience of the man , Martin renewed his promise to Caleb , took leave of him , and ran out . 
He hastened to rejoin Alice , and found her sitting on the bundles with her hands pressed upon her face , as he had left her ; but , before he had spoken , as if she knew his step among a hundred others , she started up quickly , and pressed his arm . 
`` Yes , dear child , I have , '' he answered , drawing her tenderly to his side . 
`` So can I , and so I will , '' returned Martin , cheerfully . 
The blind girl 's intuitions were so fine that she needed only to hear the sound of Martin 's voice to know that he was worthy of all trust ; yet not without sore trouble of heart did she consent to go with him , and leave her parent behind . 
she inquired , still holding back , after he had told her all . 
I know he will , in fact , '' he replied , confidently ; `` for he is a man . 
He endeavored to convince himself that he was acting wisely , and for the best ; but , somehow , when he shouldered Cheesy 's property with his own , and took the hand of Alice , he experienced miserable misgivings . 
No Cheesy was to be seen , however , and Martin was compelled to postpone the anticipated pleasure of a reünion with that young gentleman for an indefinite period . 
Remembering that his letter of introduction was addressed to Portland-street , Martin inquired his way thither , closely observing what turns he made , with a view to retracing his steps . 
He found Portland-street without difficulty ; but he also found , to his dismay , that the letter was gone from his pockets . 
He put down his bundles near a street-lamp , and fumbled in his clothes with both hands , without making any discovery which gave a clue to the missing document . 
`` This , then , is Boston , '' said he , with a sad attempt at humor ; `` and this is my first adventure . 
sighed Alice , waiting patiently at his side . 
Martin was in such good spirits that Alice felt quite encouraged , -- as he intended she should feel , without doubt . 
But Heaven knows how darkened and perplexed was his own breast at the time . 
cried Martin ; `` is that the way young gentlemen in Boston treat strangers ? '' 
With an odd jerk of his head , and a twist of his little wiry body , the boy stopped , turning up in the lamp-light the oldest face Martin had ever seen on such young shoulders . 
he asked , without the least manifestation of concern for the damage he had done . 
`` I do n't know , sir , '' replied Martin , glancing at his bespattered pantaloons . 
Curbing his chin and jerking his head again , the boy looked up with a cunning leer , and remarked that he did n't care , he was rich enough . 
asked Martin , vacantly . 
Still revolving in his mind whether he should ring at the first door , or go on until he met some person who could give him the information he required , Martin asked the boy -- vacantly , as before -- what his name was . 
asked Sim , curbing his chin again , and looking up with the same cunning leer on his old face . 
Martin produced the stipulated sum , with a request that he might be shown to the boarding-house quickly , for he was in great haste . 
Rattling on in this way , with a reckless disregard of punctuation , the little old boy skipped along , with odd motions of his head , body and limbs ; while Martin followed more slowly , leading Alice . 
returned Sim , showing the money Martin had paid him , with an aggravating flourish . 
He pushed the coal-hod before him , and was creeping along on the ground to get a stray lump which had escaped his eye before , when he perceived Martin standing before him , with Alice . 
`` The child is blind , '' said Martin , moving away , with feelings of pity and disgust . 
Martin did not at the moment feel a very strong desire to see Simeon , being quite satisfied with what he had seen of Simeon 's family . 
Martin answered that , having spent a summer in her household , he could bear witness to that fact ; adding , with a smile , as he saw her again before him , that she had a decided genius for saving . 
Martin promised to enlighten the old man on all such points in Mrs. Dabney 's domestic economy at some future time . 
But at the moment he was in great haste . 
He wished to see the little girl in safe quarters , and go for her father without delay . 
To advance matters , Martin tossed the bit -- which was indeed a bit , being no larger than a walnut -- into the hod , and offered to help the old man to his feet . 
At length , after tearing his fingers and bruising his knuckles a good deal in the operation , he gathered up the broken splints with what bits of coal he had obtained , put them carefully in the hod , and , with Martin 's assistance , got upon his feet . 
AFTER what he had seen of the family , Martin was agreeably surprised on entering Mrs. Wormlett 's parlor . 
Thereupon the pale woman gave something into the hands of a short , stout girl , whose business seemed to be a perpetual trotting to and fro with cups and saucers , glided through the folding-doors , closing them after her , and stood before Martin and his companion . 
Martin then hastened to give a partial statement of the circumstances under which he had come to the house , for Mrs. Wormlett 's satisfaction . 
`` I can put up with anything , '' interrupted Martin . 
Martin answered impetuously that it was no time to wait for anybody . 
Something must be done at once ; and , if Mrs. Wormlett would promise so much as supper and shelter for the child , he would be satisfied . 
Having pushed him into the hall and shut the door , she apologized to Martin for the scene . 
With innumerable odd jerks and twists of his head and shoulders , the boy was kicking the article in question across the faded carpet . 
His mother seized it impatiently , pushed him away , and made Alice sit down by the fire . 
Martin 's heart warmed and glowed within him . 
He could have embraced the landlady for the good feeling she had so unexpectedly shown . 
But he contented himself with thanking her , and assuring her that anything she could do for the comfort of the child he would remember with as much gratitude as if it were done for himself . 
Had he said with more , he would better have expressed the true feeling of his heart . 
Mr. Wormlett had not yet arrived ; but Martin could not wait longer for anything , having seen Alice provided for so comfortably . 
Hungry , fatigued and bewildered , as he was , he set out at once to go for Caleb Thorne . 
She therefore abandoned the dear thought of waiting for Martin and her father , and went as cheerfully as she could to eat her supper . 
The supper was finished ; still Martin was absent ; and Alice became more and more anxious about her father . 
Then she prayed for Martin again ; for it made her very happy to pray for him in the prayer she offered up for her parent . 
Martin made an effort to answer cheerfully , but his voice failed him , and Alice felt tears upon her face that were not her own . 
WAITING for Martin on the landing outside the door , Miss Tomes heard sounds of weeping . 
Martin came out of the chamber so softly that she did not suspect that any one saw her wipe away those tears , until the floor creaked at her side . 
Both were taken a little by surprise ; but Martin smiled faintly , and , giving the lamp to the boarder , thanked her fervently for her kindness and attention to the orphan . 
`` She needs rest and sleep more than anything , '' replied Martin . 
Martin , always frank and sociable , gave a brief statement of the case , for her gratification . 
`` Then I told him about this little girl , '' added Martin . 
During this conversation , Miss Tomes had led the way to a room under the attic , to which Martin had been directed by Mrs. Wormlett . 
Miss Tomes , who had volunteered to be his guide , now stood holding the door with one hand , and the light with the other , and harrying him with questions . 
`` If you will excuse me , '' he said , `` I will make haste and prepare for supper . '' 
Miss Tomes was neither young nor pretty , nor very well dressed ; but there was so much goodness in her face , as she spoke , that Martin would have remembered the look with gratitude had he never seen her again . 
He thanked her and entered the room , while with a full heart she went tripping down stairs . 
He stretched out his leg behind one of the beds , hooked a chair with the toe of his boot , drew it out , and shoved it towards Martin . 
His first impulse was to throw himself upon one of the beds , and lie there until morning , without making speech with any one ; but his kind and social nature overcame these gloomy feelings , and he returned the boarder 's salutation politely . 
he asked , looking as if he thought there was not much to choose between them . 
Martin thanked the boarder , but , declining his gracious offer , threw himself down on the unoccupied bed with a suppressed groan . 
`` I have not that honor , '' replied Martin . 
well , it a n't no great loss , '' remarked the boarder , dipping his pen again , and holding it over the paper . 
`` Yes , and the boy , '' said Martin . 
The young man choked with laughter , dipped his pen again and began to flourish over the paper , touching it only with his little finger , -- looking all the time as if he could unfold as remarkable a tale as the ghost in Hamlet , but that he was forbid by the dictates of a nice sense of honor . 
Apparently much to his disappointment , Martin did not question him ; and , after dipping his pen two or three times , still without writing a word , he resumed the conversation , by asking the new lodger if he saw the old woman . 
asked Martin languidly . 
articulated Martin . 
He brightened a little , thinking what a singular coincidence it would be if Miss Tomes should be employed to fold the Beggar of Bagdad . 
At the same time , Mr. Leviston 's back being turned , he winked knowingly at Martin ; then dipped his pen again and made a good many more imaginary flourishes , working his head in sympathy with his hand , screwing his mouth on one side and stretching his neck to the task , until his body formed a semicircle , and the horns of oiled hair above his temples seemed hooking at the paper . 
Upon that , Martin got up , washed his hands and face in one of the cracked bowls , and combed his hair before a broken looking-glass which showed him two fragmentary heads , resembling his own , with faces a foot long , divided on the bridge of the nose . 
Descending to the dining-room , he found Mr. Wormlett getting up from the table . 
Martin said he had come to town to see what he could do . 
Having given utterance to this fine moral precept , Mr. Wormlett inquired what business Martin thought of going into . 
`` I do n't know , '' replied Martin , coloring . 
`` It 's a Romance , '' replied Martin . 
`` It 's a work of fiction , '' Martin confessed , with some reluctance . 
Mr. Wormlett jerked his head from one side to the other , with an air of superior wisdom , and regarded Martin for a moment in silence . 
He then expressed in general terms his disapproval of all such publications , which tended to dissipate the minds of young people , and give them a distaste for business . 
`` But , '' said he , `` there 's a good many folks read novils , or else there would n't be so many writ and printed . 
Having expressed his sentiments on that point , Mr. Wormlett remarked that he would like to talk with his new boarder about Lyddy , some time , but that he was in a hurry just then ; and withdrew , expressing a hope that he would be able to make out a supper . 
As soon as he was gone , the shaking grandfather put his head into the room , and , observing that Martin had moved back from the table , entered and sat down at a dish of fragments which had been picked up after the boarders . 
Martin arose , having no desire to witness his meal . 
Miss Tomes was waiting at the door to invite Martin into the parlor . 
But he was too anxious in mind , and too fatigued in body , to see society that evening . 
On going up to his room , he received a grave and earnest proposition from Mr. Toplink to `` enjoy '' the night with him and Leviston , in exploring the mysteries of Boston . 
In all the busy city , so populous and wide , there dwelt not one upon whom Martin had any claim for counsel or assistance . 
But there , where he himself stood so much in need of friendly guidance and friendly cheer , he was left alone , with a poor , distressed , blind orphan girl , who , in her desolation , had only him to look to for protection . 
`` I 've had experience you ha n't , '' observed that gentleman , jerking his head to one side , folding his arms , and looking down on Martin from his grocery door with an expression of profound wisdom . 
Martin , shaping his reply with reference to Mr. Wormlett 's moral progress , said , with a bitter smile , `` No ! 
He chuckled over it , and curbed his chin , stiffening up his hair with his fingers , and leering knowingly at Martin . 
asked Sim , pointing to a small nosegay Martin was carrying to Alice . 
`` That a n't your business , Simeon , '' replied his father . 
The boy sidled out of the door , jerking and twisting as usual , grinned over his shoulder at his father , and shuffled between Martin and the old man , putting out his tongue , and uttering a mocking whinney at the latter as he passed . 
Mr. Wormlett thereupon , resuming his oracular manner , spoke again of blind Alice , uttering many profound moral precepts in support of his previous decision ; until Martin , who , in his extremity , had come to him for counsel , felt sick at heart , and despised himself for having listened to that gentleman 's practical advice for a moment . 
Yet Mr. Wormlett 's conversation proved beneficial to Martin . 
It had a stimulating effect upon him . 
It gave him confidence in his own impulses ; it filled him with an ennobling sense of his own manhood and strength . 
Until then it had seemed to him that any one else would have done a great deal more for Alice than he could do ; but now , thrown entirely upon his own resources , he resolved to follow faithfully the dictates of his own heart , and do his best , leaving the rest to Providence . 
He returned to the boarding-house , and went up into the little attic room , where Alice lay upon her poor bed , waiting for him . 
She knew his step , and her sorrowful face lighted up in an instant . 
`` I have brought you a little present , '' said he , laying the nosegay on her pale cheek . 
He might have added that he had paid out the last of his little stock of change to bring her those dainties , thinking only of the pleasure they would afford her . 
But , had they cost him a hundred times the amount they did , he would have been more than rewarded in witnessing her gratification . 
Martin was rejoiced to find that she listened with so much gentle trust to the words of consolation with which he accompanied the story of his fruitless search . 
He derived new strength and fresh resolution from her , and went out hopefully again into the city , leaving her with her little company of flowers . 
Martin had expected to see him manifest surprise , get up and shake his hand with hearty congratulation . 
He did nothing of the kind . 
He looked up pleasantly enough , and regarded his ambitious visitor with a smile , but nothing more . 
He did not even invite him to sit down . 
He waited for Martin to finish his address , then replied , politely , very much as any other business man would have done to a gentleman consulting him on an ordinary matter of business -- `` If you will be so good , sir , as to leave the manuscript , it shall be read without delay . '' 
Martin asked , in a voice slightly tremulous with excitement . 
He bowed , and resumed his writing . 
A minute later , Martin found himself in the street . 
His face was flushed , a nervous tremor was in his hands , and he was walking very fast . 
He could scarcely realize what he had done , but he seemed to have stood , that morning , face to face with Destiny . 
The town was full of interest to Martin . 
There were many places he had long desired to visit ; but he went not near them then . 
And , although novel scenes on every side attracted his eye , he did not linger in the noisy streets . 
He returned to Alice ; and , not long after , the two might have been seen walking slowly , hand in hand , up towards the Common . 
`` It is very beautiful and sweet , '' replied Martin . 
cried Martin , quickly , while a shadow of thought swept out the cheerful sunshine of his face . 
The scene possessed so many disagreeable features to the fastidious Martin , that he would have turned away , and wandered about the city until night , had it not been for Alice . 
The Common , with its fine slopes , its regal trees , and soft winds blowing over all , had not prepared him to appreciate the practical comforts of Mr. Wormlett 's house . 
Moreover , democratic as he was in his feelings , Martin felt a repugnance to sitting down at the dinner-table with the persons who composed Mr. Wormlett 's family . 
Holding his head stiffly on one side , he regarded Martin with a self-complacent smirk . 
Martin had the pleasure of dining with Mr. Wormlett . 
When the good Miss Tomes , perceiving that Alice could eat nothing , had taken her into the parlor , and Martin was left alone with the Wormletts , the head of that thriving family , coming down from the sphere of abstract principles to the plane of business , observed that the first rule of his boarding-house was that every new boarder should be required to pay one week 's board in advance . 
`` Not that I 've any doubts of you , '' he added , as Martin changed color . 
How it was done , Martin never knew ; but he had stammered forth a confession of his poverty , requesting to be waited upon until he could get returns from his Romance ; and Mr. Wormlett , having arisen from his seat , stood before him , grim and solemn , with a withering expression of suspicion and severity on his face . 
Martin reäffirmed the fact , and alluded to the lost letter . 
`` You are perfectly right , '' replied Martin , in a low tone , and with compressed lips . 
His face flushed crimson , then turned to an almost deadly whiteness , as he got up from the table . 
Burning with mortification and shame , Martin went out , resolved to perform almost any desperate act , rather than meet his landlord in the evening without being able to place in his hand every penny he demanded as his due . 
CHEERING , shouting and tugging at the rope , in the flying crowd of men and boys , whose enthusiasm he had imbibed , Cheesy ran with the engine to the fire . 
He seemed like one upon whose exertions the safety of the town depended . 
For the first time in his life , that evening , the heroic element shone through his character , like a lamp , newly lighted , through a transparent sign . 
It transfigured his face . 
It was visible in his tight fustians straddling over the pavement . 
It seemed bursting out of every rent , and streaming from his hair . 
It twinkled in his shirt-sleeves . 
It was the lightning of which his voice was the thunder . 
Those noble feelings , which Mrs. Dabney 's base treatment had so long suppressed , which the daring feats of circus-riders and occasional dog-fights in the village had fitfully aroused , and which had been so quick to recognize the merits of Martin 's great Romance , now burst forth like the conflagration he was rushing to put out . 
At length , the engine to which he had joined himself drove into a dense and confused mass of people . 
The great source and centre of all this excitement appearing to be in a narrow alley , Cheesy scrambled forward , until he could look in , and see the hose-pipes lying along the ground , like huge black snakes . 
About that time , a hook-and-ladder company arrived , and he was greatly excited on seeing them make a long ladder out of two short ones , and raise it to the roof of a tall brick building at the end of the alley . 
All this time , he turned his despairing eyes on every side in search of Martin , and looked far ahead into the darkness , straining his sight , in the vain hope of discovering some indications of his presence . 
It was in a luckless hour that Cheesy put his trust in the engine . 
After leading him an unknown distance from the street he wished to find , it drew up before a small building , the doors of which were thrown open to receive it , and stopped . 
he asked , with trepidation , of a strong , good-natured fireman . 
Cheesy 's heart sank , and his knees grew weak . 
He wished to know if that was their stopping-place `` for good . '' 
In the perturbation of his soul , Cheesy could only utter incoherent and unintelligible sentences , from which , however , the fireman gathered that , having been betrayed and led astray by the treacherous engine , he wished to go back somewhere and find somebody , who was waiting for him impatiently and in great distress . 
In his utter woe , he would have given his interest in Martin 's Romance , sacrificed his hopes of a clerkship , and risked the peril of death at his step-mother 's hands , could he have crept quietly and humbly into his mean little chamber at home , and lain down upon his forsaken bed , never , never , never to leave his native village more . 
`` O , here it is , '' said he , with a lugubrious look , surrendering Martin 's present . 
The toad-stool appeared at first to be his hat ; then it was a squirrel which he was chasing along the fences , while Martin and Caleb Thorne were resting with blind Alice under the shade of a road-side tree . 
Seeing his persecutors again , who now came in the form of a flock of hissing geese , he jumped over the fence , and met his Uncle Jesse , who was on his way to Bagdad , with a bundle on his shoulder . 
It took Cheesy a long time to get rid of the idea that Caleb had been sent by Martin to find him out , and deliver him from the watch-house . 
Before leaving the watch-house , Cheesy , inquiring how Caleb had parted with Martin and Alice , had thrown him into such a fit of remorseful passion , that he did not like again to allude to the subject . 
Of the beautiful Lillifoo , in Martin 's great Romance , he had formed a high opinion ; but that ideal bore no comparison with the real charms of his cousin Sophronia . 
He wished her away , however , when he sat down to eat the chop and drink the cup of coffee Maria had prepared for him , -- she made him feel so ill at ease ; and , for the first time , he experienced all the inconvenience and awkwardness of appearing in society in his shirt-sleeves , and with his tight fustians bursting open in divers places . 
Yet he managed to make a comfortable repast ; after which Mrs. Dabney gave him a silk waistcoat and a handsome frock-coat to put on , having been to search for those articles while Sophronia entertained him at table . 
The waistcoat was so very long , and the coat so very large , that Sophronia laughed more heartily than ever at Cheesy , after he had got them on . 
The contrast between these garments and his soiled cotton shirt and pinching trousers was ludicrous in the extreme . 
Cheesy , who was delighted with his new dress , expressed his gratification by holding his arms out stiffly from his side , and grinning at himself as he turned around for the criticism of his fair friends . 
`` I wish I wa n't going back , '' he observed , at length , a shadow crossing his face . 
It was so absurd to think of Cheesy 's finding employment in that ludicrous plight , that Sophronia and her mother joined in another fit of laughter at his expense . 
With a countenance beaming with pleasure and hope , the admiring Cheesy watched his bright cousin as she went dancing out of the room ; then , wrapping the wide lapels and skirts of the frock-coat about him , he looked at himself all down in front and over his shoulder , and chuckled with irrepressible glee at his unexpected good fortune . 
Martin walked the streets in a hot and nervous state for some two hours , revolving in his mind what was to be done . 
How bitterly he regretted not having suggested to his publisher in the morning that fifty or a hundred dollars advanced on the Romance would be acceptable ! 
But he was too proud to return to him now , and money -- the paltry sum of four dollars and a half -- was to be raised in some other way . 
He had a watch , -- a valuable silver timepiece , presented to him two years before by his uncle , with whom he had since quarrelled . 
Much as he thought that that cold man had wronged him , he did not like to part with his gift , even for a day . 
Martin produced his watch , and handed it over the counter , with a gesture of indifference . 
`` Anything you please , '' replied Martin , feeling independent in the thought that in a few days the Beggar of Bagdad would come to his relief . 
echoed Martin , with an incredulous laugh . 
`` I take it , then , if I had had the appearance of being ` hard up , ' '' laughed Martin , sarcastically , `` you would have offered me only five dollars , instead of seven . 
`` That 's a fact , '' answered the pawnbroker , evidently flattered , holding the watch to his ear once more . 
Martin whistled a pleasant air while the proprietor of the place was numbering the article and making out a check for its owner ; then left the shop in quite lively spirits , with a happy consciousness of eight dollars in his pocket , -- not as Caleb Thorne had left it , after pawning his child 's clothes with his own , a few hours before . 
The first thing Martin did was to find Mr. Wormlett in his store , and put into his hands the sum of four dollars and a half . 
`` I thought all along you 'd turn out right , and I 'm glad , -- I 'm delighted , '' he added , jerking his head back with an air of importance , and laying his hand on Martin 's shoulder , -- `` I may say I 'm gratified to see you toe the mark in this here handsome way . 
said Martin , with a peculiar smile . 
Martin bought some oranges for Alice , and returned with them to the boarding-house , leaving Mr. Wormlett still preaching to his hopeful son , while the latter writhed and twisted , as if so much moral food distressed him , and he could think of no relief short of unscrewing his neck and taking it off his shoulders . 
asked a voice from the kitchen , as Martin was running up stairs . 
He acknowledged his identity , and , looking over the banisters , saw Mrs. Wormlett coming after him , with hands thick-covered with dough . 
murmured Martin . 
Martin desired to know . 
Having imparted this agreeable information , Mrs. Wormlett retired to the kitchen , while Martin went up stairs , perplexing his brain with the problem of the mysterious ladies . 
He formed a number of conjectures concerning them , but only one seemed at all probable . 
A trifling objection to this theory , however , arose in Martin 's mind . 
How had his fame reached them ? 
How did they know that his name was Merrivale , and that he had written The Beggar of Bagdad ? 
But Martin had neglected to give the publisher his address . 
Martin found Alice sitting by the window of his room . 
Tears were in her eyes , but her face brightened when she heard his steps , and , as he stooped to kiss her , she placed her arms about his neck . 
he asked , in kindly tones . 
Martin called her his poor child , and took her head upon his bosom , letting her weep there until the flow of sorrow was spent . 
`` That is a strange question , '' replied Martin , with a darkening of the brow the blind girl could not see . 
Dear Alice , '' -- Martin 's voice trembled with emotion , -- `` I have been an orphan , -- a neglected , scorned , unloved , unguided orphan , all my days . '' 
said Alice , embracing him with eager affection . 
asked Martin , breathlessly . 
asked Martin , with eager interest , as Alice paused . 
When Alice finished , Martin was shivering from head to foot , with a thrilling sense of beauty , and wonder , and awe . 
But the simple narrative falling from her lips ; the singular aptness of certain things she described , which Martin recognized as almost prophetic in his case ; the unstudied , spontaneous flow of imagery and words , so remarkable in a child of her years ; these circumstances combined to impress him strangely , and give the dream , or vision , or whatever it might be named , a power to move his soul as it had rarely been moved in all the experience of his life . 
Martin 's thoughts were so absorbed in what the child had been saying , that he had quite forgotten the mysterious ladies . 
Instantly his curiosity returned with a keener edge than ever , and his heart swelled with expectation . 
He opened the chamber-door , and , listening on the landing , heard a silvery voice inquire if Mr. Merrivale had come in . 
`` That is my name , '' replied Martin , quite bewildered . 
`` That is certainly my name , '' said Martin , a good deal confused . 
I think there must be some pleasantry connected with all this , '' he added , perceiving that the blue-eyed was smothering with merriment , `` and should be glad to enjoy the joke with you . '' 
exclaimed Martin , pleased with the intelligence , but disappointed in the romance of the adventure . 
She gave a capital account of Cheesy 's arrival , with a witty description of his appearance and manners ; related what had been done for him by herself and mother , without Mr. Dabney 's knowledge , and finished by inviting Martin to call in the evening to see the boy , and consult with his aunt about his forlorn and unhappy condition . 
Martin readily promised to do so ; and , having brought down Cheesy 's property for Hannah , Miss Dabney 's companion , to carry away with her , took leave of the blue-eyed with many expressions of polite regard on both sides . 
After tea , Martin left Alice in the care of Miss Tomes and Eliza , and went out to fulfil his engagement . 
He found Mr. Dabney 's residence without much difficulty ; was admitted to a private room , where he enjoyed an affecting scene on meeting with his young and innocent friend Cheesy ; became acquainted with Mrs Dabney , whom he liked very much , and whom he managed to please in a high degree ; commenced a wild and desperate flirtation with Miss Sophronia , who showed alarming symptoms of falling in love ; and went home elated with the adventure , having promised to repeat his visit on an early occasion . 
asked Mr. Toplink , as Martin entered the chamber after breakfast . 
`` Yes , '' replied Martin . 
His heart swelled at the thought of the Beggar of Bagdad , whose fate was that day to be decided . 
Martin looked thoughtfully out of the window , and answered , Yes , he did not object to it occasionally . 
All the time , however , he was contrasting that wretched morning with the warm and sunny mornings that had preceded it , and wondering if it was really to be considered as a bad omen . 
For it had seemed to him that , to grace the triumph of his Romance , that day should have been the brightest of the month -- a golden sheaf to cap the yellow bundles Time had of late been binding up in the ripe October harvest . 
Mr. Toplink became convulsed with laughter , when Martin confessed to having overheard their room-mate 's improper remarks . 
`` It always tickles me to hear Leviston swear , '' he resumed , sitting down on one of the beds , in order to enjoy the reminiscence at his ease ; `` his oaths are so deep and hearty ! 
Mr. Toplink was running on in this good-natured way , when Martin interrupted him to ask if he could lend him an umbrella . 
He produced a shaggy garment , very short and very tight in the waist , and begged of Martin to make as free use of it as if it were his own . 
Declining to accept his friend 's generous offer , Martin declared himself perfectly satisfied with the shaggy surtout . 
Martin had just been thinking that his old white hat would look quite ridiculous that cold , stormy day ; and , accepting the proposition with thanks , he began to examine a small pile of the aforesaid articles which his companion took down from the top-shelf of the closet and dusted for the occasion . 
Unfortunately , he could find nothing to suit his size ; the largest article worn by Mr. Toplink being of such narrow proportions that it would have fitted the crown of his head quite as well had it been a solid block , instead of a hollow cylinder . 
`` It 's just my size , '' replied Martin . 
`` I am afraid , however , I could n't feel comfortable in a hat borrowed without leave , '' replied Martin ; `` so I think I 'll try to content myself with my own . '' 
Having concluded , and expressed a conscientious hope that he had said nothing to prejudice Martin against any person in the world , he dismissed him , with the umbrella , and went laughing into the store . 
Not so Martin . 
With his mind absorbed in other things , he had scarce comprehended a word of the conversation , -- pretending to listen , and submitting to the discomfort of standing in the storm , simply because -- Mr. Toplink 's surtout being on his back , and his umbrella over his head -- he had not the heart to take leave in a manly way of that good-natured bore : a fact of which he felt heartily ashamed , even while indulging in that natural human weakness . 
It was somehow a relief to Martin to learn that the publisher was not in . 
High as his hopes were , he could not but feel a certain dread of the crisis which was to decide his literary destiny ; and he was not sorry to have it postponed still an hour . 
Yet no sooner was he in the street than an unhappy feeling of suspense came over him , such as he had not experienced before ; and he heartily wished that the final ordeal was passed , whatever the result might be . 
With a heavy hour before him , Martin spread his umbrella and walked mechanically up the street . 
Before he was aware in what direction he was going , he had wandered around by the Common , where , during the pleasant weather of the past few days , he had spent so many happy hours with his blind companion , Alice Thorne . 
Having passed the iron gates , he paused , raising his eyes to the cold desolation of the scene . 
He shuddered at the change which time in so brief a space had wrought . 
The scene was picturesque enough , and at any other time Martin would have enjoyed it with the eye of a poet ; but somehow he could not help connecting it with the fate of the Beggar of Bagdad ; and , as he stood gazing out upon it from the shelter of Mr. Toplink 's umbrella , the same miserable feeling of suspense , which he had experienced on leaving the bookstore , weighed heavily upon his heart . 
Martin called at the store , -- a wholesale establishment in Pearl-street , -- and the boy , who was hard at work up stairs at the time , was sent for to come down and meet him . 
He had not long to wait , for presently his promising young friend made his appearance , in his shirt-sleeves , grinning , and rubbing his hands on his trousers , with a consciousness of greenness in his novel employment . 
asked Martin , smiling good-humoredly . 
`` Perty well , '' replied Cheesy , in his coarsest tones , with a large display of teeth . 
asked Martin . 
said Martin , coloring . 
He was quite a different being from the miserable , disheartened lad , who , alone and lost in the wide city , appealed to his Uncle Jesse for protection four mornings ago . 
His watch-house friends would hardly have recognized him . 
`` I like that , '' said Martin , laughing . 
Cheesy shook his head knowingly , stiffened his upper-lip , and giggled . 
`` Do n't go yit , '' said he , as Martin was about to take his leave . 
`` I 'm on my way to see about having it printed , '' replied Martin , shaking out his umbrella . 
With glistening eyes Cheesy saw his old friend depart , and returned slowly up stairs to his work , chuckling fitfully , and brushing his face with his sleeve , as if undecided whether to laugh or cry . 
Discovering , to his distress , that he had still a dreary half-hour on his hands that he did not know how to dispose of , Martin began to wander listlessly about in the rain . 
At length he stopped to look at a collection of pictures displayed in a shop-window , the most life-like and remarkable of which was a young man about his size , in a shaggy surtout and a shabby hat , standing under a wet umbrella . 
The side-face of the latter , reflected , met Martin 's eye ; and instantly a qualm smote his heart , his own face whitened suddenly in the glass , then flushed purple , and a tremor of agitation weakened his limbs . 
The shock was but momentary , however , and , rallying at once , he stood watching , with a quick-leaping heart , those remarkable features , the unexpected appearance of which had occasioned such a phenomenon of colors in his own . 
Martin was not at all ambitious of being recognized by his neighbor ; he therefore quietly lowered his umbrella , turned from the window , and -- still with conflicting emotions in his breast -- walked deliberately away . 
He had scarce taken three steps , however , when , hearing a voice , and feeling a touch on his shoulder , he stopped , looked around , and stood face to face with the man whose presence had troubled him so strangely . 
The latter was making some inquiry concerning a street he wished to find ; but , recognizing Martin in turn , he started with surprise , and broke off abruptly in the midst of his sentence . 
He bowed politely , but his face was very pale and white , and there was a passionate fire in his eye . 
Still looking steadily at the other face , he was turning once more to go , when the gentleman said , with a smile , extending his hand , `` I do n't think I 'm mistaken , although I could at first hardly believe the evidence of my senses . 
How do you do , Martin ? '' 
`` I am quite well , '' replied Martin , promptly . 
this will never do , '' said the other , holding his hand . 
`` No , sir , not quite , '' returned Martin , quickly . 
`` I am sure , '' -- his voice quivered , -- `` I am sure that any further intercourse between us will only be a source of annoyance to both . '' 
`` How you have misunderstood me , Martin ! '' 
p. 160 Taking leave of his friend , who had been waiting during this time , he stepped under Martin 's umbrella , and drew him back to the shop-window . 
But you have done me wrong , sir ; and when I think of your unjust treatment , I feel something in my breast not over and above pleasant -- something rather bitter and burning , '' said Martin , struggling to preserve a calm exterior . 
`` I could never believe , I never can believe , '' cried Martin , `` that such treatment was dictated by motives of love alone . 
I came near using a less polite word , '' answered the impetuous Martin . 
`` You are bitter enough , I must confess , '' said his friend , smiling still , but with his features darkening more and more . 
Excuse me , '' said Martin , his voice failing him , and tears of passion rushing to his eyes ; `` but it is my way to speak as I feel . 
His voice became quite choked , and he began to fumble hurriedly in Mr. Toplink 's coat-pocket for his handkerchief . 
`` It is not of much use to talk , '' returned Martin . 
`` You are rash and foolish ; I can not help saying so , Martin . '' 
The uncle spoke in fervent , earnest tones ; but Martin 's lip curled incredulously , and there was bitterness in the manner of his reply . 
Why , sir , '' cried Martin , bursting forth , `` you have loved me , if at all , as you would love a thing you were afraid of ! 
`` There is spirit in you which I like , Martin . 
I wonder , '' said Martin , looking full in his uncle 's face , `` I really wonder what sort of a man my father was . 
`` In some respects you are , '' said his uncle , returning the look with a steady gaze . 
added Martin , quickly . 
He looked down and gnawed his lip , his spirit beginning to chafe within him again , like a bird tearing its plumage and beating its bare neck against the bars of its cage . 
he muttered , after a pause , turning away his face . 
Martin fixed his burning eyes once more upon his uncle 's , and kept them there , until the latter passed his hand before his face , to veil his feelings and collect his thoughts . 
`` I am engaged , this forenoon , '' said Martin , briefly . 
The uncle spoke in a cheerful , cordial tone , which Martin could not resist . 
Martin said it was , very disagreeable ; his heart beating violently , as he approached , and rested his hand upon the back of a vacant chair . 
He arose , opened a safe in the corner of the room , and took out the Beggar of Bagdad ; while Martin , overwhelmed with a consciousness of his insignificance in the bookseller 's eyes , awaited , with a fainting heart , the result of the interview . 
`` Yes , sir , '' said Martin , with an effort . 
Discouraged by the aspect of affairs , he almost hoped for a negative reply . 
Martin observed , with affected pleasantry , that he must have been deeply interested to be able to read so far . 
cried Martin , his soul brightening with sudden hope . 
The hope which had flamed up in Martin 's breast was utterly extinguished . 
A deathly blackness followed , as he received the package , and began to arrange the ends of the wrapper , in a peculiarly careful and ingenious manner , with his unconscious fingers . 
His heart was in his throat , and it was some seconds before he could speak . 
`` I suppose , '' he said , at length , `` that the style in many places may have been found a little loose . '' 
`` Am I to infer , '' asked Martin , `` that my style is considered unnatural and extravagant ? '' 
`` One thing I would like to know , '' cried Martin , energetically . 
`` I am much obliged to you , '' said Martin , bowing very low . 
`` Not at all , '' replied his friend the publisher , turning to his papers in a manner to discourage further conversation . 
Martin bowed again , and set out to depart ; but paused at the door , and came back . 
The publisher said it was no trouble , and readily directed Martin to the shop of a brother publisher ; upon which the grateful author humbly took his leave . 
Martin had experienced heart-sickness before , but never so heavy an attack of that disease as now . 
The interview with his uncle , calling up so many unhappy associations of his past life , had rendered him peculiarly susceptible to depressing influences ; and the stroke of disappointment had fallen on a feeble and defenceless head . 
Shattered and shaken , he staggered forth , without purpose , as without hope . 
In the city , which now appeared a mere chaos of meaningless confusion to his sick eyes , all things looked ghastly and strange . 
Dull , dead , sallow vapors of despair shrouded his senses , coloring every object , and muffling every sound . 
Only one idea assumed anything like distinctness in his brain . 
Overwhelmed with a conviction of the utter worthlessness of his romance , and disgusted at the thought of offering it to another publisher , as he had for a moment feebly resolved to do , he more than half made up his mind to walk to the nearest dock , and fling it as far as he could into the water . 
But no -- it was not worth the trouble ; he would throw it under the wheels of the first omnibus . 
That he could not do , however , without exposing his mortification to the crowd . 
Already he seemed to be a subject of idle curiosity . 
Boys grinned at him , as if they knew all about his rejected manuscript . 
Omnibus-drivers , cased in shining oil-cloth , beckoned to him , with jeers , from their exposed and drizzly heights ; and one shouted `` Beggar of Bagdad ! '' 
as distinctly as ever Martin had heard anything in his life . 
Men in the street appeared to be talking about him ; and clerks , looking out of shop-windows and laughing , were certainly acquainted with all the circumstances of his case , and found them highly amusing . 
To drop the burden of his shame , therefore , before the eyes of such , was out of the question , and his thoughts reverted momentarily to the dock theory ; but , remembering what his uncle had said about his rashness and folly , he concluded to carry the romance home , and deliberately invent some shrewd device for its destruction . 
Had he been quite alone in the world , and could his disgrace have been kept a secret guest in his own bosom , Martin felt that he might have faced ill fortune stoutly . 
But now a derisive throng of people he knew arose before him , incredulous and mocking . 
Miss Tomes would pity , and Mr. Toplink would tell the story good-naturedly , in mysterious whispers , behind Martin 's back , and go into convulsions of laughter . 
Cheesy would lose faith in him , and Mrs. Lydia Dabney would say , on hearing of the affair , that it was just as she expected , -- she could have told you so before . 
And Martin 's uncle , -- would it be possible to conceal the disgrace from him ? 
There were two persons , however , of whom Martin thought more anxiously , in connection with the affair , than of all the world beside . 
Martin groaned as he recalled to mind her sweet innocence , her helplessness , her attachment to and dependence upon him . 
Crushed in spirit , deserted by fortune , with no honest means within his reach , what could he do , but tear away her clinging arms from his neck , and leave her to her fate ? 
One melancholy source of consolation , however , he had in thinking of her . 
Let the worst happen , there were , he thanked Heaven , asylums of charity open to such as she ; and , should he be driven to the bitterest extremes of want , there would still be comfort , if not happiness , in store for her . 
Revolving these things in his mind , Martin reached the boarding-house . 
He walked rapidly up stairs , in order that no one might see the manuscript under his arm , entered his cheerless room , and shut the door . 
Alice , quiet and patient , was waiting for him there , with a shawl wrapped round her delicate shoulders , to defend her from the cold . 
he asked . 
cried Martin , as cheerfully as he could . 
You are not my brother Martin to-day . '' 
`` No , my child , '' replied Martin , with tearful humor . 
said Alice , holding his head to her breast . 
asked Martin , comforted by the simple faith of the child he loved . 
said Martin . 
`` The house was my romance , I suppose , '' said Martin . 
The effect of this singular narrative upon Martin was wonderful . 
`` And I will do that work , '' added Martin , in deep , earnest tones , his bosom throbbing and expanding in the floods of light which seemed poured down upon it from a higher sphere . 
Martin was a new being . 
Down into the sea of oblivion sunk the old castle the inexperienced youth had upreared on the shallow foundations of his romance . 
With these new schemes in view , Martin took leave of Alice , and went forth again into the storm . 
Treading all the past beneath his feet , he seemed to walk sublimely on its ruins , and extend his hopeful hands to heaven with shouts of joy . 
But his spirit 's exaltation could not endure long . 
He came down , at length , to find himself in the low , wet streets , with Mr. Toplink 's umbrella over his head , and the Beggar of Bagdad under his arm . 
`` None at all , '' replied Martin , stooping quickly to pick up the letter . 
He colored slightly on recognizing Mrs. Lydia Dabney 's thimble-stamp on the big wafer , and her elaborate hand-writing on the back . 
It was , in effect , his lost letter of introduction to Mr. Simeon Wormlett . 
And , with a profusion of bows and smiles , he returned the package to the bewildered Martin . 
The publisher was sorry to say that such an arrangement was out of the question ; and Martin was politely bowed out of the store . 
However , if Martin persisted , he would `` look over '' the romance , and decide upon it in the course of a few days . 
Martin , impatient , discouraged , and not a little disgusted with the whole affair , did persist , and The Beggar of Bagdad was stowed away in the bookseller 's desk . 
`` It would be a great accommodation , '' then said Martin , with a mighty effort , `` if you could advance me a few dollars on the manuscript . '' 
Well , the manuscript is in my desk now ; and , as for the ten dollars -- '' `` Never mind , '' cried the impatient Martin . 
So , more than ever disgusted with the business of finding a publisher , Martin took his leave , and went out into the rain rejoicing . 
Then commenced the labor of constructing a fit garb of verse to clothe the living thought ; and Martin , pacing up and down the dreary streets , and around by the desolate Common , unconscious of cold rain and raw east wind , whispering , muttering , and rolling his eyes in fine frenzy to the roof of Mr. Toplink 's umbrella , might have been taken by almost any observer for a sublime lunatic -- as perhaps he was . 
Mr. Toplink was very talkative ; but , with the measures of his poem undulating in his brain , Martin could only say `` yes '' and `` no '' to his conversation , in a mechanical and absent-minded way . 
Martin evaded his questions ; but that young gentleman , observing his singular demeanor , and building conjectures thereupon , shrewdly inferred that The Beggar of Bagdad was a failure . 
Martin , shut up in his room with Alice , who would not go down without him , was happily unconscious of the remarks made concerning his literary abilities and prospects . 
His mind was completely absorbed in his poem . 
With Alice sitting peaceful and contented by his side , he wrote out with a pencil the lines he had already composed , revised and polished them , and read them aloud repeatedly , to criticize the rhythm , and to judge of their effect upon the child . 
Or , the fact that the lines were descriptive of the grand autumnal scenery , in the midst of which she had enjoyed Martin 's presence and conversation so much during the past few days , may have inspired the deep interest she felt . 
It is possible , again , that what he said about calling the poem `` Alice , '' out of a tender regard for her , was the principal source of the enjoyment she derived from hearing it read . 
laughed Martin . 
`` Listen , then , '' said Martin . 
He cleared his throat , and , with the child nestling fondly to his side , read , in deep , measured , musical tones , the poem of When Martin finished , the child 's eyes were filled with tears , and closer still she nestled to his side , sighing and smiling . 
`` To tell the truth , '' replied Martin , `` I have had some thoughts of inflicting it on the Streamer . '' 
``` Solemn sylvan column ' is the correct reading , '' said Martin , biting his lips . 
A fine word , Martin acknowledged ; but in that place he thought `` sylvan '' more appropriate . 
``` How she thrilled me , how she chilled me , with the strangeness of her smiles , ' '' suggested Martin . 
`` Perhaps so , '' assented Martin , with a sarcastic smile . 
`` Certainly , '' said Martin . 
Mr. Toplink said that was it ; and Martin read the third stanza , as requested . 
To make amends for his blunder , he hastened to furnish Martin with writing materials , accompanied with a particular request that , when the poem was neatly copied out for publication , he might have the pleasure of reading it in manuscript , before it appeared in the Streamer of the Free.Martin promised him the gratification ; upon which , expressing his firm conviction , that Quintus Quilldriver , the Streamer ` sfavorite bard , had written few things that surpassed that composition in `` magnificence of fancy and sublimity of diction , '' Mr. Toplink smilingly retired . 
`` He did not feel it as you did , '' answered Martin . 
`` Not at all , '' said Martin , patting his companion 's cheek . 
Now let me make a clean copy for the Streamer ; for , '' said Martin , with a sigh , as he thought of his uncle , `` I have got to go out again in a little while . '' 
NOTHING satisfactory to either party resulted from Martin 's interview with his uncle . 
But Martin was not sorry . 
His spirit , too buoyant to be crushed , leaped forth courageously to face the future . 
In this frame of mind Martin set out on the following morning to take the poem of `` Alice '' to the office of the Streamer of the Free.It was another stormy day . 
But his soul was bright and hopeful as a June morning . 
He was a little diffident , however , about entering the office of the Streamer.Not that he stood in awe of the editor , for he had read his articles ; but it appeared to him a meanness , a sacrilege , to ask money for so divine a creation as a poem . 
The rigid finger of necessity pointed the way , however , and he mounted the office stairs , blushing , but resolved . 
he asked of a gentleman who was opening letters at a desk . 
He gave Martin a careless nod , and , moistening his thumb on his lips , proceeded to count a small roll of small bills with a consequential air , calculated to impress the visitor . 
asked Mr. Drove , regarding Martin with the same complacent smirk , with his chin out and his eyes half-closed . 
`` I thought of offering you a poem first , as a specimen of what I can do , '' replied Martin , taking `` Alice '' from his pocket . 
`` The word is leafy , '' said Martin , with a revulsion of feeling . 
` In this grand old leafy palace , deep whitening the -- the -- ' '' ``` Deep within , ' '' suggested Martin . 
`` Perhaps , '' said Martin , flushed and nervous , `` it will be as well for me to read it to you . '' 
Martin accordingly cleared his throat , and went through with the poem of Alice ; not with much spirit , however , for it seemed to him all the time as if he was reading to a post . 
`` About as easy as you could make two small statues of one large one , by cutting it in two , '' said Martin , in a quiet tone , but with an incensed look . 
`` Very good , '' replied Martin . 
I do n't know what such things are worth , '' said Martin , frankly . 
`` We have never been in the habit of paying for poetry , '' he said , after taking some moments to contemplate the matter . 
`` Excuse me , '' returned Martin , with dignity , folding his manuscript . 
suggested Martin . 
I should like to make a beginning with you , '' said Martin , a little choked . 
repeated Martin , aghast . 
Martin was struck with the suggestion . 
The necessity of funds rendered his perceptions clear , and he reflected that the average price for four or five columns of matter would be four or five dollars , of money . 
Mean as the remuneration seemed , he was not in a position to despise it . 
`` If I bring you in a sketch to-morrow , '' said he , `` will you decide upon it by the day after ? '' 
Thereupon Martin , promising to furnish a prose sketch for the Streameron the following morning , put `` Alice '' in his pocket and his hat on his head , and withdrew . 
His spirits were not quite so gay , on descending the office-stairs , as when he mounted them ; but his determination was as strong as ever to earn a livelihood with his pen . 
It was a relief to know that he was not dependent on the Streameralone . 
Martin paused before a pile of newspapers that littered the floor , removed his hat , and inquired if the editor was in . 
The man with the cigar and scissors said he was ; and Martin , somewhat embarrassed at doing his delicate errand in presence of a third party , stammered , blushed , and produced the poem of Alice . 
`` If you have leisure to look it over now , I will wait , '' replied Martin , in some trepidation . 
The editor made no reply , but , holding his cigar in his mouth , read the poem , sleepily , through puffs of smoke . 
He felt an impulse to snatch his divine composition from the pollution of such hands , and rescue it from the profane inspection of such eyes . 
But reason restrained him ; he stifled his irritation , and stood by , studying to be patient , while the poem , which should have been read to the music of singing brooks and rustling leaves , by a soul in harmony with nature , was examined by the dull intellect of one whose spirit seemed blasted by the poison in the midst of which he counterfeited life . 
Without another word , he resumed his clipping , having laid his cigar on a book ; while Killings went over the poem , and Martin endeavored to forget himself in the columns of a newspaper , which he had picked up from the floor . 
`` Very fair , '' replied Killings , in a voice which , by contrast with the other , appeared so full of animation that it made Martin start . 
`` I would , '' said Martin , over the newspaper . 
Killings thought it was , decidedly , and appeared quite patronizing towards Martin . 
But the latter felt a painful consciousness that `` Alice '' ought to bring him something besides compliments and puffs . 
He therefore made an effort , and asked -- affecting a business air -- what price was commonly paid for such productions . 
Having delivered himself of these sentiments , with sluggish deliberation , amid puffs of smoke , and in a voice so miserably low that Martin could follow him only with the strictest attention , the editor opened a fresh newspaper , -- if anything in that office could be properly called fresh , -- and proceeded to glance over its columns . 
Martin replied that he could not , in his present circumstances , contribute to the Portfolioon such terms , and took his leave , with a good deal of nausea and not much ceremony . 
To his surprise , Killings followed him out , and accosted him in the entry . 
`` Mr. Killings , '' repeated Martin , doubtfully . 
`` I am theKillings , '' pursued his new friend , putting out his lips , wrinkling his forehead , and bowing oddly with his hands on his sides . 
`` Ah , yes , '' said Martin , brightening . 
suggested Killings , with another contortion of his face , expressive of conscious importance . 
Martin answered eagerly that he would . 
That -- that 's a very pretty poem of yours , sir , '' added Killings , with a sudden change to the patronizing manner , doing a broad smile for Martin 's gratification . 
Martin replied that he was glad to hear him say so , and inquired what subject he desired him to treat upon . 
Martin was sorry to confess he had not enjoyed that entertainment . 
On receiving a negative reply , the great Killings returned to the editorial room , and brought out a number of sheets of music , to which he called Martin 's attention . 
The design of each seemed to be to exalt and glorify the popular Killings , and to popularize his panorama . 
Martin glanced at `` Sunset on the Rhone ; Words suggested by a Scene in Killings ' Panorama , and respectfully dedicated to that great public benefactor ; '' and replied , smiling , that he believed he could . 
He also added -- impelled by an instinctive desire to earn something -- that he would try ; upon which the sublime Killings expressed his approbation . 
`` O , yes , '' replied Martin . 
`` You have probably seen some sketches of this kind going the rounds , '' said Killings , taking a roll of newspaper-strips from his breast-pocket . 
Martin replied that he did not think such compositions would be at all to his taste ; alleging that he preferred to elaborate imaginary scenes . 
Martin replied that it was so , and that he would give the subject his serious attention . 
By the way , '' -- speaking through his nose in a low tone , confidentially , -- `` I rather expect there 'll be a change in the management of the Portfoliosoon ; if there should , it 'll promably be for your advantage . 
So saying , the immortal Killings made a number of grotesque grimaces , expressive of unfathomable depth of thought , accompanied with extraordinary sagacity , patted Martin on the shoulder , touched his nose significantly , and returned to the smoky room . 
As for Martin , he went down into the cold , wet street , a good deal disgusted , a good deal amused , and not a little astonished ; and there , drinking in the damp east wind , he experienced a sense of freedom and refreshment , as men are wont to do escaping after long confinement in close walls . 
Although he still had the poem of `` Alice '' on his hands , Martin did not feel discouraged . 
In attempting to dispose of it , he had made two engagements to write ; and , gathering hopes of a livelihood from his success , he resolved to make one more effort to sell his verses , and see what the result would be . 
He accordingly proceeded to the office of the Stars and Stripes , and , with some diffidence , introduced `` Alice '' to the publisher . 
Martin felt a great repugnance to mentioning the necessity which compelled him to require pay for his poem ; but , as there was no alternative , he did not hesitate to follow up the publisher 's decision with that important statement . 
Martin accordingly stalked out of the office , with a hot face and sharply-compressed lips , and went home , satisfied to postpone all further experience with the weekly press for an indefinite period . 
Alice sat by her friend 's side that day while he wrote a sketch designed for the Streamer of the Free.The room was gloomy and cold ; the lamp-stand he used for a desk was inconveniently narrow ; Mr. Toplink 's ink was pale and watery ; the beds , the wash-stands , the dingy walls , and the rag-carpet -- appropriately named -- which covered the floor , were not inspiring objects ; and certain unhappy thoughts , which would intrude themselves upon Martin 's mind , sadly ruffled the feathers of the bird of fancy , and hindered its flight . 
Yet he somehow labored through a sketch entitled `` White Hairs and Auburn Tresses ; or , the Old Man and his Youthful Bride ; '' which he finished after dinner , and which Alice pronounced pretty and touching . 
In the evening he invited Mr. Toplink -- who was delighted to have that pleasure -- to go with him to see Killings ' Panorama . 
He was a good deal interested in that wonderful work of art , and found no difficulty in selecting a subject for the proposed song ; which he composed , in part , during the performance . 
He did not suit himself , however , in consequence of the annoyance occasioned by Mr. Toplink 's conversation . 
His delight seemed unbounded when his memory enabled him to anticipate the lecturer , and inform Martin what phrases would be used to describe the castle or the forest , and what joke would be perpetrated about the gored horse , at the bull-fight , taking a horn and getting high . 
It was not altogether pleasant to Martin , although Mr. Toplink considered it a model . 
Martin finished his song that night before he slept ; and on the following morning he set out to call on the famous Killings , and visit the office of the Streamer of the Free.He first left his manuscript of `` White Hairs and Auburn Tresses '' in the hands of Mr. Drove , then hastened to find his patron in the smoky editorial room of the Portfolio . 
Mr. Killings received the song with a grimace expressive of pleasant surprise , and invited Martin to sit down , after shaking hands with him cordially . 
`` Pretty fair , '' said he , having read the stanzas twice very carefully . 
`` I was interested , '' replied Martin . 
I am fond of music , '' answered Martin . 
Martin said he preferred that his name should not be known in connection with the song ; and that Mr. Killings could make any such allusions to the author as he chose , with that understanding . 
`` I like your modesty no less than your genius , '' answered the noble Killings , shaking Martin 's hand again with great cordiality . 
If you 'll agree to write what I want during the coming season , '' the generous Killings went on , talking through his nose , `` I 'll pay you handsomely ; I 'll make it an omject for you . 
Martin was beginning to feel that he had done Killings injustice . 
He thought the eccentric manners of that remarkable man might have prejudiced him , and that , beneath his disagreeable egotism and affectations , there existed , after all , a true heart . 
He accordingly expressed a willingness to undertake the business he proposed . 
`` That 's the way I like to hear you talk , '' resumed the proprietor of the panorama , affectionately laying his hands on Martin 's shoulders , and putting his long nose into his face . 
`` This song suits you , then , '' observed Martin , gratified and encouraged . 
The magnanimous Killings regarded Martin with a look of unconscious simplicity exceedingly beautiful to behold . 
It was Martin 's disposition to let those he dealt with have their own way in all trifling matters of business . 
The magnanimous Killings , therefore , had his way ; and Martin went home , somewhat disappointed , it is true , but , nevertheless , quite hopeful of the great things his noble patron would do for him by and by . 
Alice , who had been sitting by his side , glided out of the room , unguided ; and Martin , laying down his pen with a yawn , suffered the tension of his mind to relax under the genial influence of his social room-mate 's conversation . 
Martin changed color as rapidly as Mr. Toplink had done on the abrupt appearance of Mr. Wormlett at the door . 
`` I hope not , '' said Martin , with considerable heat about the face . 
It stands for honesty ; for if a man pays his debts you may always know he 's honest ; and if he do n't pay , '' -- Mr. Wormlett regarded Martin with a stern expression , -- `` it 's cause he a n't honest ; that 's a certain case . 
`` When a young man , a stranger , a person without money or means , '' replied Mr. Wormlett , with sage deliberation , `` comes to me and says , ` I brought a letter from your sister , who recommended me to get board with you , ' -- but fails to produce the letter -- '' `` It is proof-positive of wilful deception , I suppose , '' suggested Martin , tempering his fury to a look and tone of withering sarcasm . 
`` You shall be gratified , '' said Martin , taking the important document from his pocket , and flinging it on the bed , with a gesture of impatience and contempt . 
His brows gathered as he read ; and suddenly he turned upon Martin in a manner somewhat at variance with Mr. Toplink 's statement touching his philosophical self-control . 
Martin , astonished , read as follows : `` Dear brother Simeon : I do n't think it advizble to trust the barer of this he is a wuthliss fellow I am nowin to the fact that he aint got a doler in the wrold I suppozed he would go rite to you to git bordid and so give him this letter to warn you aginst him I am well and hope you are injoin the same blessin . 
demanded the wrathful Wormlett , appealing to Martin , Simeon and Mr. Toplink , collectively . 
What am I to think now , Mister Merrivale ? '' 
`` What you please , '' replied Martin , throwing the letter down in disgust . 
`` There is some reason in what you say ; and I shall be sorry to have you leave , Mr. Merrivale , -- very sorry ; but I have told you the rules of the house -- '' `` And I 'll abide by them , '' said Martin , briefly ; `` only let me hear no more on the subject , if you please . '' 
Conscious of having transgressed one of those sublime laws of action which he had preached to Simeon from his early childhood ; and perceiving that , in consequence of a little undue heat and haste , he had sacrificed a boarder who might possibly have proved profitable to the establishment , besides losing not a little personal dignity ; he quailed visibly before the scornful eyes of Martin . 
To add to his discomfiture , Mr. Toplink , pleasantly excited by the tragical termination of the dispute , declared himself decidedly `` of Mr. Merrivale 's opinion . '' 
`` I am glad you did n't , '' observed Martin , dryly . 
`` I am glad you did n't ; and I beg of you never to think of such a thing again , '' said Martin . 
`` No , I thank you , '' replied Martin , smothering his rage . 
Thereupon Mr. Toplink appeared heart-broken , declaring that the separation would be the cruellest thing he ever experienced , and offering to do anything in the world for Martin , to prove his friendship . 
`` You are very kind , '' said Martin , resting his head upon his hands . 
Before withdrawing , however , he rallied sufficiently to repeat , in a feeble manner , his assurances of devotion to Martin , and to make use of some strong abusive terms touching the character of Mr. Wormlett . 
Martin had been alone but a few minutes , when Alice , who never liked to be in the chamber when Mr. Toplink was present , groped her way from the garret , entered softly , and placed her arms about the young man 's neck , before he was aware of her approach . 
`` I shall be glad when the rain is over , so that you can get out doors once more , '' replied Martin , tenderly . 
Martin answered , evasively , that Mr. Wormlett had been in , and there had been a slight misunderstanding between them . 
The story served to amuse Martin for the moment ; but his perplexed mind was reverting to the gloomy prospect before him , in spite of the child 's endeavors to comfort him , when the good Miss Tomes tapped lightly at the door and entered . 
`` Do n't say a word , '' said she , putting something in Martin 's hand . 
And the queer Miss Tomes , with her plain face and feeble curl , of whom Mr. Toplink made so much fun in his good-natured way , ran out of the room before Martin could ask what she meant . 
Then , exceedingly astonished , he looked at the little roll of paper she had left in his hand . 
Martin 's feelings revolted at the thought of making use of the good creature 's money . 
But he remembered that it was not for him , but for Alice . 
He thought of the storm , through which it would be so hard to remove the child ; he considered the difficulty of finding another boarding-place ; and he reflected that the five dollars was only a loan , which , in the morning , or on Monday at the furthest , he would be able to return . 
He accordingly resolved to use the means which had been sent to his relief at so critical a moment ; and , overflowing with the kindliest emotions , blessing the good Miss Tomes , for whose sake he could forgive and pity and love even those whose low ambition was to roll the almighty dollar through the world , he arose rejoicing , and , taking Alice by the hand , led her cheerfully down stairs . 
After dinner Martin settled with Mr. Wormlett for another week 's board in advance , -- a circumstance which drew forth from that deep well of wisdom several buckets-full of sage counsel , on the subject of keeping your credit good , if you mean to get along in the world , make money and be respectable . 
Mr. Drove blamed his assistant , who , he said , had not shown his face in the office for three days ; hinting strongly about employing Martin to do certain things left undone by the negligent editor ; and requested that he might have a confidential talk with him early the coming week . 
Thus the first period of Martin 's literary experience , with its blasted hopes and wounded ambition , its misery and suspense , the death agony and triumphant resurrection of the soul 's energies , draws to a close . 
Merrivale ! 
` Sleep , Merrivale ? 
he adds , much relieved , as Martin turns over to avoid being disturbed any more . 
he continues , in a low voice , looking out of the window . 
Having by this time banished sleep from the pillows of his friends , much to his regret , he assures them , Mr. Toplink commences the duties of the morning . 
Martin is in his place at the table , with Alice between him and the good Miss Tomes . 
Martin , who has been so bold as to suggest that his affliction cometh not so much from any special act of the Lord , as from the transgression of natural laws , is looked upon as sceptical ; Mr. Mowle shakes his head at him , with much elongation of the corners of his mouth , and Mrs. Mowle inquires , with deep solicitude , if he has a praying mother . 
Miss Tomes , good creature , who has a dread of the least seeming impiety , is grieved to see Martin smile at this solemn question ; for , although assured that he loves truth and reverences religion , and aspires to live a pure and blameless life , she fears that such levity will peril his soul . 
The tide of indignation he turns from the sceptical Martin against himself by a wicked pun , whereat the redfaced Winksworth looks redder in the face than ever , by force of suppressed laughter , and Mr. Toplink chokes over his coffee . 
On the way down stairs , Miss Tomes knocks at Martin 's door . 
Martin laughs , and tells her he will not mortify her by walking into one of your fashionable places of worship with her in his seedy clothes . 
With his straw-colored gloves on , and with his dainty rattan carried genteelly in his fingers , he is the very ideal of dapper dandyism ; and , conscious of his dazzling magnificence , he delights to strut about the room , and ask , carelessly , `` Come , Merrivale , a n't you going to church ? 
As Martin declined Miss Tomes ' invitation , so he also declines that of his agreeable friend Toplink . 
The sexton glances at his seedy coat and old white hat , and leaves him standing in the porch until the more elegant strangers visiting that place of worship have been shown to pleasant pews ; then Martin is hastily seated in an obscure corner , between a bent old woman in faded black and a dilapidated gentleman with a broken nose . 
After meeting , Martin 's seedy coat and old white hat may be seen in the midst of glossy beavers , rich broadcloths and glistening silks , as the throng of church-goers moves slowly down the street . 
Yet Martin is not ashamed ; he glories in the thought that costly apparel would make him no better , and that poor clothes would make the showy crowd no worse . 
`` True manhood is in the heart , '' he says , or thinks ; `` and this coat-worship is base . 
Even while these fine sentiments throb in Martin 's brain , his face suddenly flushes purple . 
He sees , coming directly towards him , the charming Sophronia and her mother , in silks and velvets magnificent . 
Martin , I candidly confess , was not . 
At the dinner-table Mrs. Mowle inquires if Martin has been to church ; and , on being told that he has , discovers evidence of improvement in the fact , and commends him with a real motherly spirit . 
Notwithstanding this encouragement , Martin goes not to any place of worship in the afternoon , but spends the time in reading `` The Banditti of the Cavern , '' a thrilling novelette , recommended by his obliging room-mate . 
Martin walks the streets , passing and repassing Mr. Dabney 's house , and looking up at the windows , and returns home just as Mr. Winksworth is going out for the first time since yesterday . 
The latter invites him , in a confidential whisper , to go and `` get a punch '' with him ; but Martin declines ; and Winksworth , going alone , feels it his duty to drink punch for two until some time past midnight , when he comes home boozy , and , looking into the parlor , has the gratification of seeing Mr. Longstalk alone with the ancient Miss Dodge , whose head is on his shoulder . 
Martin retires in good season , but he does not sleep well . 
He hears Mrs. Mowle up with the reverend , who is groaning and moaning all night with internal pains . 
Mr. Toplink , who has been absent since tea , comes home at twelve , and chuckles and gossips with himself about the good time he has been having with the girls ; until Martin , incensed , has some thoughts of getting up and smothering him with a pillow . 
Winksworth has retired ; Toplink has talked and laughed himself asleep ; the reverend has respite from groaning ; and Martin , drowsing at length , dreams of hearing Caleb Thorne preach a funeral sermon over somebody in Mr. Toplink 's trunk , while Miss Dodge plays on a sort of piano-accordeon , -- an instrument with bellows as large as a cupboard , -- and sings from a hymn-book containing Killings ' Panorama songs . 
EARLY Monday morning , the hopeful Martin set out to call on the publisher with whom he had left his Romance to be examined . 
Martin bowed , smiled cheerfully , and made a careless remark about the weather . 
`` You expose yourself too much , possibly , '' suggested Martin . 
`` I do n't think I do , '' replied the other , rubbing his fingers on his boot-leg . 
`` I am sorry , '' said Martin , with a disappointed look . 
`` I do n't know about taking hold of anything of this kind just now , '' he at length observed , in his most depressed manner . 
Martin , vexed and impatient , replied promptly that , if such was the case , he would relieve him of the romance without more ado . 
Martin concluded to accept this proposition , and once more departed , leaving the Beggar of Bagdad in the hands of the melancholy publisher . 
A few minutes later , he entered the office of the Streamer of the Free , and was complacently received by Mr. Drove . 
asked Martin , with a show of gayety , seating himself in a chair opposite the responsible editor . 
Martin 's brows gathered , and he gnawed his lip in silence . 
He looked up with his old smirk to observe the effect of this bold announcement upon Martin ; and Martin said , `` Is he , indeed ? '' 
pursued the responsible editor , with an expressive shake of his head . 
`` That 's bad , '' said Martin . 
Martin thought of Caleb Thorne , and asked , with earnest feeling , if there was no way to reform that better class of persons over whom the morbid appetite for drink has such power . 
Martin agreed to undertake the leader . 
`` Some of these must have been written by the editors who printed them , I take it , '' said Martin , glancing his eye over the puffs . 
`` Certainly , '' said the unsophisticated Martin . 
`` It 's all right , then , '' observed Mr. Drove , with his chin out further than before . 
`` If there 's money to be earned that way , '' said Martin , with a smile of rather melancholy humor , `` I am not in a condition to neglect the opportunity . '' 
Martin observed that he should think that , with his brilliant imagination , Mr. Drove would prefer to write the notices himself . 
said Martin . 
said Mr. Drove , as Martin finished reading what he had written . 
Martin was laughing heartily . 
His friend desired to know what amused him . 
`` My unexpected success , '' he answered , with tears in his eyes . 
But , so far from being offended , as Martin had good reason to suppose he would be , he seemed only to conceive a still higher respect for his character and talents . 
`` Of course , '' he observed , with his chin out , smiling and laying his finger on the page of puffs , `` they look ridiculous to you and me ; but the masses wo n't see any fun in 'em . 
`` For decency 's sake , then , '' cried Martin , `` let me alter the style of them a little . 
he exclaimed , convulsed with mirth . 
`` But this , '' laughed Martin : ``` The continued story is one of absorbing interest . 
The pugnacious Chaffer compressed his lips and shook his hand with a warning gesture at his employer , then turned and regarded Martin for a moment with a look of solemn scrutiny . 
he cried , staggering forward and grasping the young man 's hand . 
`` My dear sir , '' replied Martin , with a good-humored smile , `` I have n't a dollar in the world . '' 
`` Excuse me , '' said Martin ; `` I never drink . '' 
Chaffer raised his hand in an attitude which seemed to say , `` I know all about that ; so not a word ; '' and kept his swimming eyes fixed with a stern expression on his employer 's face . 
Wait for me five minutes , my young friend , '' he added , embracing Martin ; `` I 'll bo ` r ' r the money , and call at the door for ye . '' 
Martin persisted in declining the kind invitation ; but Chaffer put up his hand as before , in an attitude of friendly remonstrance , and went reeling out of the office . 
Martin promised , and took his leave . 
On his way to the office of the Portfolio , he unfortunately fell in with Mr. Chaffer , who recognized him , and stopped him in the street . 
`` So I am , '' said Martin . 
asked Martin . 
Martin was not at all pleased with his companion . 
asked Martin , on the way . 
`` That 's right , '' responded Martin . 
You have never left them to suffer from cold and want , whilst enjoying yourself abroad ; and you are never anything but kind to them at home , I know , '' said Martin . 
Martin was touched , yet he could not refrain from laughing . 
`` O , no ; not a bad man , '' said he , cheeringly . 
`` You exaggerate , '' replied Martin . 
demanded Chaffer , stopping Martin with a jerk , and looking full in his face . 
`` There is a destiny which shapes our ends , '' replied Martin . 
Mr. Redwort -- a gentleman with long black hair , an iron-gray moustache , and a defective eye -- greeted Martin in an off-hand , dashing style , and declared himself delighted to make the acquaintance of a brother author . 
said Martin . 
`` Ned 's been all over the world , '' said Chaffer , aside to Martin . 
`` Mr. Berryfield reminds me -- '' `` Merrivale , if you please , '' said Martin . 
`` You are the very picture of the colonel , '' he added , turning the glassy glimmer of his defective eye on Martin . 
Redwort stroked his iron-gray moustache , and regarded Martin complacently , to observe the effect of his confessions on his new acquaintance . 
`` You have written a great deal for the newspapers , I should judge , '' observed Martin . 
Come , boys , '' added the great Bowsprit , taking Chaffer by the arm to steady his irregular steps , `` let 's go to Smith 's to celebrate this meeting , and drink to the success of Mr. Merriville . '' 
Martin , however , declined the invitation and the honor . 
Martin had seen enough of a certain low kind of dissipation to loathe and abhor it ; and all the persuasive eloquence of his new friends was insufficient to induce him to accompany them to `` Smith 's . '' 
Perceiving his determination , they finally released him ; and while he hastened to the office of the Portfolio , Chaffer staggered into the nearest alley , on the support of the redoubtable Redwort 's arm . 
`` I thought it was better , '' replied Martin , modestly . 
Martin , disheartened and disgusted , answered , that he had no idea of fixing a price on such trifles . 
`` If that is all the songs are worth to you , I am satisfied , '' said Martin , with a red , perspiring face . 
I shall want to employ you regularly , '' he added , in a whisper , behind the editor 's back , `` when the Portfoliocomes into my hands . 
`` I am glad you like it , '' said Martin , encouraged . 
articulated Martin , with a sickening sensation . 
`` Yes -- a dollar and a half ; and I 'll have it printed in the Portfolio , with a complimentary notice of the author , '' returned the magnanimous Killings , with his pleasant grimace . 
Martin could not , of course ; and Killings , who probably anticipated as much , made the circumstance an excuse for paying him in small change , received at the door of his `` Panorama . '' 
Opening a leather pouch , taken from the safe , he counted out forty antiquated fourpences , nearly every one of which was worn smooth , and tendered them to Martin on the crown of his hat . 
PUNCTUAL to his engagement , Martin called on Mr. Drove in the afternoon , and read to him three articles designed for the editorial columns of the Streamer . 
`` I could n't have asked anything better , '' replied Martin , gratified , `` for I am decidedly hard up , as the saying is . '' 
Martin was astonished and indignant ; but , managing somehow to suppress his feelings , he made a simple statement of his case to the responsible editor , and appealed to his generosity . 
`` I borrowed five dollars on Saturday which MUST be returned this evening , '' he said , with passionate earnestness , and with tears in his eyes . 
However , if Martin chose to accept of three dollars as payment in full for the three editorials , the sketch of `` White Hairs and Auburn Tresses , '' and the puffs for the daily papers , he did n't know but he could let him have the money . 
The young author , who expected not less than ten dollars , at the lowest estimate , for his labors , looked aghast at the proposition . 
But he had made it ; he had no better terms to offer ; and the exasperated Martin was compelled to receive his petty fee from the hand which he could have spat upon in his burning sense of wrong . 
What rendered the humiliation the more bitter was the fact that Mr. Drove , smiling , nodding and winking , patted Martin on the shoulder , and seemed to consider that he was doing him an extraordinary favor . 
One source of satisfaction , however , Martin had , which almost compensated him for the disappointment and chagrin which he had that day been led to suffer . 
The money , loaned him by the good Miss Tomes , which had already occasioned him a world of uneasiness , causing him to feel like a thief and a swindler , he was able now to return ; and , in the joyful sense of freedom attendant upon that happy circumstance , he resolved never again , on any account , to make use of the hard-earned wages of a poor book-folder . 
All Martin 's endeavors to earn money were fruitless . 
Moreover , Mr. Dime , the book-publisher , neglected to read the manuscript of the Beggar of Bagdad , with the exception of a few pages here and there ; and , with his characteristic indecision , continued to put Martin off , alleging , in melancholy tones , that the publication of new books was attended with such risks that he still wanted a day or two to make up his mind on the subject . 
On Friday , however , in consequence of Martin 's earnest solicitation , he advanced five dollars on the romance , with great reluctance and many groans , so that the young man was saved the mortification of being dunned again by Mr. Wormlett . 
In the mean time , Martin wrote sketches , and endeavored to sell them to the weekly newspapers . 
But he met with little encouragement , and with no satisfactory success . 
And so Martin , driven to a point of desperation which he had never reached before , went home one day , nearly three weeks after his arrival in town , sick at heart , crushed in spirit , and utterly hopeless of success in the literary profession . 
He entered his room , and , to his surprise , found Alice sitting before a grate full of blazing coal . 
he asked , in a tone half playful and half sad . 
I heard somebody come into the room , and thought of course it was you ; and said , how sorry I was that you were obliged to sit and write here in the cold ; I suppose I cried a little too ; for I had been thinking how hard you have to work , and how much trouble you have -- '' `` Why , Alice , '' said Martin , pressing the child 's cheek , `` I am getting along bravely . 
eagerly asked Martin . 
`` Mr. Toplink says that Leviston was once engaged to be married , '' said Martin , `` and that his intended bride ran away with a friend of his . '' 
said Martin , tenderly ; `` how do you manage to make every one that comes near you better and happier ? '' 
said Martin , mournfully . 
Alice hid her face in Martin 's bosom , and answered only with sighs of gratitude and love . 
he continued . 
`` True , '' said Martin . 
`` The star is the soul , '' said Martin ; `` and the darkness is the cloudy selfishness which benights the mind . 
Martin arose , shook hands with his room-mate , and endeavored to speak to him ; but his heart was too full for words , and the emotion visible in his face was left to express his sympathy . 
In a moment , however , he made an effort , and , with a tremulous smile and tearful eyes , managed to tell Leviston that he was sorry to learn that he was ill . 
`` I hope we shall know each other now , '' returned Martin . 
murmured Martin , as Leviston embraced him cordially ; `` I have been so much in need of such a friend ! '' 
Suddenly he relieved himself by taking out his pocket-book , and thrusting it abruptly into Martin 's hand . 
said he ; `` that 's what I mean . 
I ca n't stand this , '' articulated Martin , returning the pocket-book . 
-- it is something I am not accustomed to , '' said Martin , wringing his hand again . 
`` O , well -- never mind , '' faltered Martin . 
said Martin , his heart all stirred within him , `` how much I owe to you ! 
The blind girl nestled to his bosom , weeping with deep joy . 
`` If I promise you that , '' cried Martin , `` you must let me off with ten dollars to-day . 
Martin was decided , and Leviston permitted him to have his own way . 
With the ten dollars obtained from his new friend , Martin , on the following morning , paid a week 's board , and also redeemed the manuscript of the Beggar of Bagdad , left in the hands of Mr. Dime . 
He accordingly called Martin back , asked him if he thought he could do better than leave the romance with him a few days longer ; talked as encouragingly about undertaking its publication as he could possibly do without committing himself ; and , unrolling the manuscript once more , glanced his hungry but doubting eye over the bill-of-fare set forth in the chapter-headings . 
Martin brightened a little at this ; but soon , perceiving that no definite arrangement could be made with such a weak and wavering mind , he resolved to waste no more words on the subject , and hurried abruptly away . 
Martin had in view a publisher for the Beggar of Bagdad . 
That publisher was Mr. Drove , of the Streamer of the Free.He had proposed to Martin to write a novelette for his paper ; and , on hearing the story of the Oriental romance , had expressed a curiosity to see it . 
Into his hands , therefore , Martin delivered the immortal manuscript , and was told that in three days he should know its fate . 
At the appointed time he returned to the office of the Streamer.He found Mr. Drove at his desk . 
Martin received a complacent smile from the former , who was always patronizing , and a slight nod from the latter , who was generally cold and reserved , except when his heart had been opened with a corkscrew ; and sat down to hear what was going to be done with the Beggar of Bagdad . 
`` I was not ; but I am not surprised , '' replied Martin , with sad humor . 
Martin 's face darkened , and he looked down moodily for some seconds . 
At length , with a desperate air , he struck the manuscript , and turned to Mr. Drove . 
`` I understand that that is the ordinary price for novelettes , '' said Martin . 
Mr. Drove , for the first time in Martin 's presence , actually laughed aloud . 
Martin was perplexed . 
`` Well , '' cried Martin ; `` to return to the novelette . 
exclaimed the impetuous Martin . 
It was certainly a mean sum to offer to one who had expected to make a fortune out of his romance while writing it . 
Mr. Drove , who liked nothing better than to banter about a few dollars , began thereupon to talk of money , reputation and authorship , in a manner which recalled forcibly to Martin 's mind the necessity of selling his romance for something , however small the price it would command . 
He accordingly concluded that , rather than burn it , he would `` cut it down '' to the prescribed dimensions , and sell it to Mr. Drove for thirty dollars , which was that gentleman 's last and highest bid . 
`` By the way , '' said the publisher , as Martin was about to depart , `` I shall want you to get a more taking title . 
Dumb with amazement , poor Martin looked at Mr. Drove , to see if he was in earnest . 
The latter was never more so in his life . 
In this new disguise Martin carried the `` Beggar of Bagdad '' to Mr. Drove , and demanded his reward . 
Martin was incensed . 
He snatched his romance from Mr. Drove 's hand , and flung it into the stove . 
And this is the story of that fine airy castle Martin Merrivale built . 
How many another has been reared like his , in golden skies , with banners floating in soft southern breezes , to meet , like his , disastrous and ridiculous downfall ! 
WITH twenty-five dollars in his possession , Martin Merrivale was a rich man . 
That little sum consoled him for past trials ; it cast a golden light upon his future . 
He paid all his debts ; made Miss Tomes a handsome present ; purchased several little delicacies and comforts for Alice , and -- that was the last of his twenty-five dollars . 
One other present Martin made , which should not be forgotten . 
In sending to Mrs. Dabney for his trunk and clothes , his heart was too full of benevolence and love to all God 's creatures to admit a single vindictive thought against that excellent woman . 
`` I do not know , '' replied Martin ; `` but of one thing I am sure , -- I could not have written it before I knew you . '' 
There was one mischievous thing in the letter , which made Alice laugh , -- Martin sent his love to Cheesy . 
He did not , it is true , make much out of Mr. Drove , and all the fine promises of the magnanimous Killings proved false and hollow . 
So it proved to be ; a valuable friend , too , was the blunt Dillistone ; for his treatment of Martin was not only manly and generous , but , with much good advice on the subject of writing for newspapers in general , he gave him particular encouragement -- and remuneration no less -- to write for the True Standard.Through Mr. Dillistone , our author made the acquaintance of Mr. Bangy , of the Weekly Budget , a genuine humorist , world-renowned ; a man of a large body , and a soul larger still , full of that magnetism of the heart which draws loving and admiring friends . 
As for Martin , the simple , unpretending manners of this new acquaintance , his warm sympathy and genial humor , proved a sort of fascination to him ; and before he had seen him three times he had opened his heart , showing him all its weakness and all its strength . 
In this school of experience , Martin learned economy . 
Not much to the expansion of his soul , perhaps , yet considerably to the advancement of his bodily comforts . 
He used to tell Alice , with pleasant humor , how he progressed in meanness . 
One day , by shrewd management , he succeeded in obtaining of Mr. Drove a dollar more for an article than he expected ; an instance of financial ability of which he boasted facetiously for a week . 
Martin Merrivale transformed ! 
Yet , with what a careless grace he appears in this new magnificence , for the first time ! 
she wishes she had eyes to see him now , -- she knows he looks so beautiful and grand ! 
The Rev. Mr. Mowle and lady , who profess to have no respect for persons , certainly manifest respect for Martin 's clothes . 
They observe his presence , and listen when he speaks , as they were not wont to do when the genius they now recognize was disguised in a shabby coat . 
He openly approves of Merrivale . 
He is in raptures with his friend Martin . 
Say what you will about Mart Merrivale , he is on intimate terms with him , and is proud of his acquaintance . 
In short , the susceptible Martin is in love . 
Or thinks he is , at least . 
He experiences violent symptoms of the tender malady . 
He has beheld the dawn of a light which beautifies the earth ; it streams forth from the glowing orient of youthful passion ; and his soul leaps up to meet it , like water in a fountain . 
Amid rainbows and golden mist he moves exultant . 
Martin is not always free to visit at the house . 
Sophronia tells him when to come , and he goeth ; when to forbear , and he stayeth away . 
He studies them much by night , pacing to and fro , to and fro , lonely , in the street , with passionate eyes glancing upward ever and anon . 
With the curtain raised , it is a loadstone inviting him to enter boldly by the hall-door ; with the curtain partly raised , it encourages him to wait until the way is clear ; with it closed , the sallow radiance shimmering through is telegraphic of suspense . 
Mr. Dabney has met Martin twice , and set him down as a rascal , with the rest of mankind . 
Mrs. Dabney is not sharp-sighted ; she has no suspicion ; and , should you tell her that there is a flirtation between Martin and her daughter , it would prove a startling piece of news . 
How I wish I could stay at home , and have somebody come and see me , -- I do n't say who , '' she adds , archly , as Martin squeezes her little finger ; `` you need n't think I mean you . 
-- what a sigh , what a smile , and what a look she gives him ! 
`` Yes , '' cries Martin , magnanimously ; `` I would have you go by all means , if it will make you happy . '' 
His indifference pains her . 
She would have had him declare , with pride and passion , that she should not go -- that he would put his shaving implements to an extraordinary and tragical use , if she thought of such a thing . 
He need not tell her again that he loves her ; she will not believe him any more . 
Then ensues coaxing and a kiss ; the young lady is pacified ; and now Martin 's spirit is troubled . 
He says he feels convinced that they should part . 
He is a poor fool , -- a lonely , loveless and unhappy mortal , -- and how she could ever think she cared for him he can not conceive . 
He is without means , without friends , without position ; his shadow darkens her bright path ; she would be happier without him , and it is presumptuous in him to walk by her side . 
No ; let her go where pleasure leads her , and he will pursue his gloomy road alone . 
He is in earnest -- or thinks he is , and appears so . 
He is cruel , but she does not blame him . 
She will never go to another ball or party as long as she lives -- unless she goes with him . 
`` Come , and let us reason together , '' then says Martin , very softly . 
And so he makes her promise that she will go without him -- yea , with another ! 
-- and , solely to please him , she consents , reluctant , to the sacrifice . 
To the ball she therefore goes ; and the disconsolate Martin on the evening thereof adds fuel to the consuming flame within him , by walking past the house , and watching to see her as she comes out and gets into the carriage . 
A pang shoots through him when , in the flood of light that streams from the hall-door , she appears , radiant with happiness , and , O , so lovely in her white attire , with her fair head uncovered , but not unadorned , and trips gayly down the steps , her sacred finger-tips surrendered to the profane pressure of her gallant 's hand . 
Her light laugh smites his ear with anguish , and he goes away despairing , with rage and grief in his heart . 
He is jealous of that favored gallant . 
Sophronia pretends that she detests him ; but he is very amiable , and her parents like him : therefore she endures him . 
To Martin the unknown rival is formidable . 
Fear and uncertainty exaggerate his proportions . 
Imagination pictures him heroic and aspiring . 
A phenomenon of this sort occurs when Martin stands for the first time in the presence of his rival . 
Martin 's bosom swells with a vague apprehension , and he arises , palpitating , to confront his foe . 
Resolute , unbending , coldly courteous , he greets him , as conqueror greets conqueror . 
Martin 's high blood ebbs and cools . 
He looks amazed . 
Where is the royal resistance of soul he expected to meet ? 
He has heard Merrivale spoken of as a young man of great genius , and is delighted to make his acquaintance . 
The majestic Martin unbends . 
A softening smile dawns upon the severity of his features . 
He is no longer jealous of Tiplilly . 
On the contrary , he regards him with indulgence and friendship ; meets his advances half way ; and , in the inspiring sense of freedom occasioned by the resolution of his doubts , -- in the fulness of benevolence and joy attendant thereupon , -- dazzles and fascinates him with his wit and humor . 
Sophronia never saw him so brilliant , was never so proud of him , and never loved him so ardently before . 
Also , when Martin takes his leave , he retires with him , reverently kissing Sophronia 's hand at the door . 
He goes out first , and Martin kisses her lips behind his back , -- a liberty which , she declares , Tiplilly never thought of taking in his life . 
After that , they walk arm-and-arm together up the street , -- Tiplilly looking ludicrously little and insignificant by the side of his companion . 
Martin wishes to go directly home , for he knows that Alice is sitting up , in hopes of seeing him before going to bed . 
But he is delicate about showing his new acquaintance where he boards , and to separate himself from him is impossible . 
So Martin resolves to `` walk him off , '' -- a feat difficult of execution , as he finds . 
The little fellow struts by his side , and swings his cane , -- a slender whalebone , adorned with an exquisitely-carved feminine leg for a handle , -- and talks largely about himself , with good-natured egotism . 
In connection with this favorite theme , he introduces the subject of `` Mith Dabney , '' -- Tiplilly , with his other accomplishments , has a pretty and graceful lisp , -- and startles Martin with a piece of intelligence altogether new and unexpected . 
`` I suppose , '' he says , with an air of importance , `` that , being a friend of the family , you are in the secret . '' 
Martin wishes to know . 
-- ah -- yes -- certainly , '' says Martin , aghast . 
Tiplilly -- the innocent , friendly , pompous little Tiplilly -- has smitten the strong Martin as with a thunderbolt . 
But , all unconscious of what he has done , he goes on to relate , in the most ingenuous manner , the whole romantic story of his love : how his `` cousin Theodore from Philadelphia , '' a friend of Mr. Dabney , introduced him ; how the very name of Sophronia -- Tiplilly says `` Thofrony '' -- charmed him ; how her eyes , and hair , and melodious speech , charmed him infinitely more ; and how she looked encouragingly upon his passion . 
Martin can , though ; for she has looked at him in the same manner , with unmistakable meaning , hundreds of times . 
Martin recognizes the appalling picture . 
It is what killed him , too ; and it kills him again now in a different way . 
Tiplilly demonstrates the manner of the squeeze on his companion 's fingers , reproducing the copy with such fidelity to the original , that it is impossible for the stricken Martin to doubt a single item of his experience . 
`` Come , '' he adds , as they are passing a hotel , `` let 's go in and have a smoke , and I 'll tell you the whole story . '' 
But Martin has heard enough . 
He says , with a ghastly smile , that he does not smoke ; Mr. Tiplilly must excuse him ; he is in haste , and will bid him good-night . 
He is in no hurry ; he will go Martin 's way , for the sake of his company ; and he adds that he would enjoy walking with him all night . 
`` I 'm bound to see you home , anyway , '' he declares , with chivalric devotion ; and see him home he does , accordingly . 
At the door Martin shakes him off ; waits for him to get out of sight ; then sets out on his mad errand , and arrives , in a heat and tremor of excitement , at Mr. Dabney 's house . 
Martin sees Sophronia once more -- for the last time , as he has sworn . 
He meets her smilingly -- for he has torn his passion from his heart , and trampled it and crushed it like a weed beneath his feet . 
He meets her smilingly , -- but there is terror and vengeance in his smile , -- and leads her unconscious feet upon the hidden mine . 
He laughs a satanic laugh , as he lights the match and slowly , grimly touches the fusee . 
How it comes about poor Martin can not tell ; but , five minutes after smiting her with the buffet of his wrath , and bidding her farewell forever , he is holding her in his arms , and trying to kiss her through her curls . 
Yet Martin commiserates that unfortunate youth , and treats him very kindly when he comes to see him afterwards , with a view , as he -- Tiplilly -- says , of cultivating the `` acquaintanth . '' 
Sophronia seems also to commiserate him , and to treat him kindly too ; for he declares to Martin that his love affair `` progretheth thwimmingly . '' 
It fires Martin 's indignation , and he reproaches Sophronia . 
He vows it is a shame that Tiplilly should be so deceived . 
cries Martin , exultant . 
cries Martin , glowing , vehement , impassioned , -- `` do a right thing for the sake of the right . 
Martin turns the key . 
Thereupon Tiplilly unbosoms himself ; he weeps ; he cries out for sympathy and counsel in his hour of tribulation ; and Martin is the only friend he knows who has influence with `` Mith Dabney . '' 
And Tiplilly presses the carved lady 's foot of his cane-handle to his quivering lips , while his eyes fill with tears . 
Martin replies with argument and philosophy . 
Love has wings ; he is a god ; he can not be chained and driven , and taught petty tricks , like a monkey , or a learned pig . 
Martin must go to Sophronia and plead his cause ; and , to do a friendly act , -- not at all to enjoy a pleasant evening himself , we may suppose , -- Martin consents to be his ambassador . 
And now , when evening comes , the anxious Tiplilly awaits in the street while his generous friend performs the arduous mission he has undertaken . 
He is conscious of possessing neither ; and the exciting spectacle of Merrivale shot down at ten paces , and Sophronia frantic , remains a vision of his heated and belligerent brain -- nothing more . 
When , after the lapse of those ages of suspense , he sees Martin come forth , he joins him and walks by his side , silent and sullen . 
`` I have done my best for you , '' says Martin , with an effort , cheeringly . 
It is a difficult task for Martin to convince the injured Tiplilly that even in the kissing business he was acting the part of a single-hearted ambassador , but somehow he does it with soft and genial humor , mingled with true pathos ; and , notwithstanding his ill success with Sophronia , Tiplilly believes in him , and trusts that he may yet , through his powerful instrumentality , reach her heart . 
He cultivates his friendship more than ever now ; introduces him to his cousin Theodore , from Philadelphia ; and would -- but that Martin declines to accept the obligation -- procure him invitations to some of the choicest parties of the season . 
Martin also is drawn to him , but with different feelings . 
`` Merrivale -- the name is familiar to me , '' says the gay Milburn ; and he shakes Martin 's hand cordially , while Martin 's heart beats quick with interest . 
`` I have heard of them , '' says Martin , `` and I believe I am distantly connected with the family . '' 
`` I discover a striking family resemblance between you and Colonel Merrivale . 
Did you never meet him ? 
He must know something of you . '' 
`` I have seen him , '' replies Martin , with a flushed face ; `` but he has probably forgotten me . 
And , '' he continues , with an attempt to conceal his excited feelings under a careless exterior , `` you need not , if you please , take pains to remind him that so insignificant a branch of his family still exists . '' 
Yet so deep is Martin 's interest in all that appertains to his uncle , that he is irresistibly attracted to the man whose feet have ascended and descended Summer Hill . 
He would know something of his cousins , of his aunt ; he would know the history of those high and fortunate souls ; and Theodore drops now and then a word or two on the subject , which he treasures up like gems of priceless value . 
cries that young gentleman , with a sudden start , as if he had not seen his friend until that moment , nor thought of putting on a melancholy look to be reported to Miss Dabney , -- `` How are you , Merrivale ? 
Martin turns to introduce his companion . 
There is fire in his eyes ; and his eyes are fixed on Theodore Milburn , who is coming out of the music-shop after his cousin ; and his hands are closed , as with passion . 
`` Mr. Milburn , '' says Martin , `` this is my friend Mr. Leviston . '' 
Milburn nods with an air of haughty unconcern , and moves away , drawing Tiplilly after him . 
asks Martin , taking his arm , in a kindly manner , as Milburn and his companion mingle with the crowd that throngs the street . 
To those who watched her with interest -- to Martin , Leviston and Miss Tomes -- she appeared to be walking in a dream . 
During the hours when she sat speechless and motionless by Martin 's side , while he wrote , -- with her soft blue eyes closed , and with a sweet spiritual light in her sad , half-smiling face , -- the inner world was open to her sight , and she saw forms and pictures of deep significance , which even the proud intellect of her companion might have failed to comprehend . 
Sometimes , when Martin spoke to her , she did not seem to hear his words ; but the spirit of his thoughts she saw as pictures , exceedingly brilliant and beautiful . 
This singular conduct gave Martin no little uneasiness . 
But one day , after much puzzling of his brains , he exclaimed , with a sudden start , `` The poor child is jealous ! '' 
Having made this sage discovery , he endeavored to atone for his past neglect by the tenderest attentions , and ceased to tell her about his adored Sophronia . 
But his efforts to pacify and soothe her were of no avail . 
Sometimes , when he did not see Miss Dabney for several days , the child would be able to get quite near him , and she would say , `` You are yourself now , and I love you , O , so much ! '' 
Then suddenly the strange repulsion would drive her from him . 
She would writhe in his arms , and tear herself from him , and throw herself weeping upon the floor . 
Martin would ask , lifting her up in the gentlest manner . 
But you are not my brother Martin to-night . 
By what subtle powers of perception she was thus enabled to divine where he had been , and with whom , Martin could not guess . 
If he but met Sophronia in the street , and pressed her hand , the sensitive Alice knew it the moment he entered the room where she was , although he opened not his mouth to speak . 
he said to her , one day . 
`` Tell me -- tell me truly , now , '' pleaded Martin , in loving tones ; `` for I wish to know all about it . '' 
Martin insisted , kindly but firmly , and at length she told him all . 
When he came from seeing Miss Dabney , he brought with him an influence from her ; the blind girl could not explain what it was ; she only knew that she felt it , and that it gave her pain It was so strong , even , she imagined , as to affect the spirit of his sketches . 
It seemed to her that he never wrote so truthfully and sweetly when under that influence as at other times ; and Alice was a wonderful little critic . 
His shrill voice made the child shudder , and Martin looked up with an expression of irritation which Mr. Toplink was too good-natured to perceive . 
he cried , brandishing something in the air above Martin 's head . 
Martin fumbled in his pocket , and produced the stipulated sum ; then Alice held the letter , while he lighted a lamp . 
While Mr. Toplink was talking , Martin , impatient to get at the contents of the letter , broke the seal . 
To his surprise , he found the missive written in a graceful feminine hand ; and , still more to his surprise , -- to say nothing of his agitation and alarm , -- he learned from it that his uncle , Colonel Merrivale , of Summer Hill , lay at the point of death , -- that he had a matter of importance to communicate to him alone , and desired to see him before it was too late . 
Martin crushed the letter together in his hands , and , eagerly snatching up his hat , made some unintelligible inquiry concerning the time when the cars started . 
After this stunning announcement , Martin cooled down a little , collected his scattered senses , and set himself about preparing for the journey in a rather more practical manner than he had at first thought of doing . 
He also had time to bestow some attention upon Alice , who was much distressed , and whom he had quite forgotten in his excitement . 
`` Probably not long , '' replied Martin , `` Not more than a couple of days , at the furthest . '' 
He pledged his life that he would never desert her , let what would occur . 
Martin reässured her , and took her in his arms . 
Long time he talked to her with comforting words ; and gradually she grew calm , and nearer and nearer still she nestled to his bosom , and closer still her arms embraced his neck . 
`` You who see it , and know so much about it , '' said Martin , `` should be able to tell what it is . '' 
At length her right arm , which encircled Martin 's neck , began to move , and her intelligent hand stole softly between his collar and his throat , and crept around towards his left shoulder , gliding along upon his smooth flesh . 
Alice dried her tears ; and Martin , agitated by what had taken place , waited impatiently for the departure of his friends , in order to see what more she would have to say . 
When he was once more alone with the child , however , she had quite forgotten the cross , and neither thought nor vision came to her mind concerning it . 
`` I am going out a little while now , Alice , '' he said , after sitting some minutes by her side . 
said Martin , sadly , as he held her in his arms . 
The expression , which was one she often made use of , struck him with peculiar force at that time ; and the thought it suggested , that she had never seen him yet , and could never see him with her natural eyes , caused his sympathies to gush forth ; and , with a fresh resolve , warmed and vitalized by the love he bore her , he vowed inwardly to provide for her and protect her with his life . 
Alice went to bed , as she had promised to do , when he was gone . 
She heard Martin return home from visiting the fair Sophronia , an hour later . 
She knew when the boozy Winksworth , groping his way up stairs at one o'clock , went plunging into Mr. Mowle 's room , mistaking it for his own . 
She was haunted by the Shadow she had seen standing , like Fate , between her and Martin . 
It rose up with her at dawn ; it moved beside her when she left the chamber ; she felt its embrace when Martin bade her cheerfully `` good-by , '' and departed on his journey . 
It remained with her when he was gone , and its paralyzing presence would not let her weep . 
It was with her , chill and grim , as she sat thinking of Martin far away , and trembling for his safety . 
My brother Martin , -- he has been so good and kind to me , -- you do n't know ! 
You will not take me from him ! '' 
`` You will let me be with him , wo n't you ? '' 
`` We will send for him to come and see us in our new home . '' 
`` But my brother Martin -- I can not think of leaving him . 
Are you sure I shall be with him again some time ? '' 
Caleb 's brow became contracted and dark at the sound of Martin 's name . 
But , to pacify his child , he promised her what she asked . 
It stood over her , and chafed her temples , and warmed her hands , and brushed the snow from her tangled hair ; it wore her father 's form , it had her father 's look ; but it was the same relentless Shadow still , standing between her and Martin . 
We have seen how , in the case of Martin , Reality , plodding and practical , kept pace with his aspiring sister , dragging heavily after , with sad and wearisome footsteps , when she would have flown . 
The uncultivated Cheesy , no less than the poet Martin , suffered from these unhappy differences between the dwarf and his sister . 
Even he , son of a Dabney , and fugitive from his step-mother 's roof , followed Romance with too ardent footsteps , and received many a disastrous check and cruel fall , at the hands of the malignant dwarf ; until , at length , he gave up the chase in despair , and sat down , angry and full of woe , to lament for the vanishing Psyche , and to curse her hideous brother . 
After swallowing his hasty supper , he would run out , and pace to and fro , to and fro , lonely , in the street , even like his friend Martin at that time , but from different motives , and with different hopes . 
Once in a great while , the homeless Cheesy saw his old friend Martin , who always had a word of comfort and encouragement for the heart-sick boy , whatever might be his own griefs at the time . 
At Colonel Merrivale 's ? '' 
Martin answered in the affirmative . 
The horses were dashing forward through the flying snow-clouds ; the gale was blowing furiously ; and he was obliged to shout in order to make himself heard . 
The stage got on very well , and Martin looked out for his hat , until the cross-road was reached . 
Suddenly , as the horses were beginning to plunge through the drifts , he uttered a cry , and made a hasty snatch at something which went flying off into the stormy air like a monstrous bat . 
`` Do n't wait for me , '' cried Martin , shaking off the blanket . 
He jumped down , and the stage went on without him , laboring through the drifts . 
He rushed to a corner of the fence where his hat had lodged , and reached the spot just in time to see that useful piece of property shoot between a pair of rails , and go flying off again across the country . 
To climb the fence , take a long leap into the drift on the other side , and wallow on to the broad field from which the snow was mostly swept away , was not exactly the work of a moment ; but , certainly , Martin accomplished the feat with surprising swiftness and agility , considering the obstructions to be overcome . 
In the mean time his hat had blown off nearly a quarter of a mile , and lodged in a whortleberry-bush , on the other side of the pasture . 
Martin had the wind in his favor . 
In that respect he enjoyed equal advantages with his hat . 
Out of breath , bare-headed , his hair flying in the gale , Martin paused an instant , amazed , and uncertain what to do . 
The second field also Martin traversed , running before the wind . 
Once more he came upon deep drifts , and plunged into them above his knees , before he was aware of the vicinity of the fence . 
He slackened his speed , and looked about him for his hat . 
It was now so dark , and the air was so full of snow , that he could scarcely distinguish a tree a few yards distant . 
It seemed almost impossible , then , that he should be able to find his hat ; he was , in fact , on the point of giving up the search in despair , when he discovered it jammed in between two rails , and nearly filled with snow . 
He seized it , emptied it of its contents , and placed it on his head . 
said he , triumphantly . 
Martin was still muttering when a sudden blast took him , as he was struggling to get out of the banks , and blew him over . 
He stretched forth his hands to save himself ; the opportunity was too good to be lost ; off flew his hat again ; it whirled up twenty feet into the air , and alighted somewhere in the neighboring field . 
Still the persevering Martin pursued . 
But , finding himself in a hilly region , with rocks , and hollows full of snow , on every side , he was compelled to abandon the hope of discovering his lost property . 
He kept on , however , directly before the gale , until he came to a lane , where certain drifts appeared , lying several feet deep , between the fences . 
Here he paused ; reluctantly acknowledged to himself that he was outwitted and beaten by a hat ; and turned back , not a little exasperated , to retrace his steps to the cross-road and the stage . 
This was a more difficult undertaking than he had anticipated . 
Night had fairly set in ; his foot-prints were obliterated ; he conld see nothing before him but a wild , gloomy waste , enveloped in clouds of snow . 
The fierce gale struck him in the face with stinging whips ; its fury took away his breath and blinded his eyes . 
Even the atheltic and resolute Martin could make no headway against it . 
Besides , he suffered inexpressibly ; so that , after indulging for some minutes in the insane hope of beating up to the cross-road , he turned his back despairingly , and once more sailed down before the wind . 
Already he had taken the precaution to tie a handkerchief over his head , and now , with his surtout-collar -- a large one , fortunately -- turned up about his ears , he was able to proceed quite comfortably , all things considered . 
Martin saw plainly in what danger he was . 
He likened himself to a sailor lost overboard , and drifting off , benighted , on an unknown sea . 
His only hope of safety lay in being cast upon some friendly shore . 
Yet , in peril as he was , he scarce regretted the adventure . 
To an imaginative mind like his , there was a sublimity in the hour worth days of peaceful beauty . 
Rejoicing in the majesty of the tempest ; expanding with a sense of freedom , in the savage solitude of that dark , stormy waste ; hatless , his boots and trousers filled with snow , he wandered on , trusting to the all-watchful Spirit to guide him forth from that scene of desolation . 
Through hard drifts he struggled ; fences he climbed ; by reeling and roaring trees he passed ; and still onward into the awful night he journeyed blindly , until at length a shadowy shape loomed up in the misty obscurity before him . 
He was almost under it before he discovered its dim outlines ; when , with a thrill of satisfaction , he perceived that he was running against a barn ! 
He turned to the right , climbed a gate , and tramped through the snow towards a red ray of light which glimmered from the window of a cottage beyond . 
He gave an energetic knock at the door ; it was opened readily ; and in went Martin , with a whirlwind that filled the room with fine siftings of snow . 
`` I 'll help you , my little fellow , '' said Martin . 
`` And it blew away my hat , and led me a wild chase across the fields , '' rejoined the young man , removing the handkerchief from his head . 
She was a woman scarcely forty years of age , not handsome , but with an exceedingly sweet and winning countenance , which caused Martin at once to feel at ease beneath her roof . 
She welcomed him hospitably , conducted him to the sitting-room , -- a humble , but neat and comfortable apartment , -- and listened to his story with an expression of interest and solicitude which surprised him . 
She even appeared quite agitated when he related how , by a seeming chance , he had been led to her house . 
`` You must not think of going further to-night , '' said she , eagerly , when he spoke of pushing on to Colonel Merrivale 's . 
returned Martin , overflowing with gratitude . 
Steady , now , '' said Martin . 
When , after a lapse of a few minutes , she appeared again before Martin , her eyes glistened still , but her face was radiant and happy . 
She brought him a pair of socks and some slippers -- a humble duty , truly ; but there was such sweetness and love in her countenance the while , such mellowness and softness in her voice , that he saw in the act exceeding grace and beauty ; his heart was deeply touched ; and as his eyes followed her , they filled with tears . 
In the mean time , the woman set out the table , spread a neat white cloth upon it , and made other preparations for supper , the grateful Martin still following her with his eyes . 
`` This is Mr. Doane , my father , '' said she , with a full heart , addressing Martin . 
Martin shook hands cordially with the old man , whose pale features lighted up with pleasure . 
`` Colonel Merrivale , '' said Martin , -- `` I have been told that I resemble him . '' 
He dropped Martin 's hand suddenly , and started back , trembling with excitement . 
At that moment his daughter sprang to his side , and supported his unsteady footsteps to a chair . 
`` O , sir , think nothing of it , '' murmured the agitated woman regarding Martin with suffused features . 
Martin , embarrassed , but fascinated by the strange , almost passionate look she gave him , glanced from her to the white-haired old man , with an expression of painful interest . 
The old man 's laughter was so very childish and airy , that it pained Martin to hear him . 
He had already discovered that his mind was shattered and enfeebled . 
Martin continued to converse with the old man , while his daughter , assisted by a girl who from time to time made her appearance from the kitchen , concluded her preparations for the evening meal . 
Amos seemed inclined to argue a little on the subject ; but he obeyed quite cheerfully , nevertheless ; and , in a little while , -- Martin at the time was washing at a sink in the kitchen , -- in came a tall , straight farmer , with a bundle in his arms , and a tin lantern in his hand . 
He nodded a welcome to Martin . 
Martin looked on with interest . 
he inquired . 
The same childishness that had so pained Martin at first . 
Martin , returning from the kitchen , observed , from the doorway , this little scene , and asked himself , with some perplexity of thought , if all this excitement and mystery had any connection personally with himself . 
It was many minutes before Jared and his companion reappeared , and Martin sat alone by the stove the while , pondering over his adventure , and glancing in thought at his uncle , whom he expected to see in the morning , and at Alice and Sophronia far away . 
`` A little , I confess , '' returned Martin , blushing . 
Martin blushed more deeply than ever . 
The farmer perceived his difficulty , and made haste to help him out of it . 
After these explanations , Martin and Jared entered into a conversation on topics of general interest . 
The farmer was intelligent , sympathetic , and whole-souled ; his honest , unaffected manner commanded Martin 's admiration , and won his confidence ; and he appeared not less pleased with his guest 's generous sentiments and ingenuous behavior . 
Besides , there was fragrant tea for old Mr. Doane , -- of which his daughter also took a cup , -- and some nice slices of fried ham , cooked , as it appeared , expressly for Martin . 
Thus Martin was left alone with Martha , whose heart seemed full of the warmest interest in his behalf , -- so much so , that she could not converse with him without visible emotion . 
They spoke again of the minister 's son ; that topic leading to the more general one of the world , which suggested something of Martin 's own experience in Boston and elsewhere ; a tissue of discourse beginning with Junius , and ending with Martin himself -- a sort of interlocutory suspension-bridge , on whose wires of thought Martha passed over , from one to the other , with exceeding eagerness . 
-- and not long after Jared 's return from the barn , Martin , who really needed repose , as any one could see , was sent up stairs to bed . 
Not on an empty stomach , as the phrase is ; his supper had been too recent for that . 
It would have been better for his dreams , perhaps , had he given digestion a little better chance before retiring . 
He might have been saved that horrible phantasm of attempting to fly -LRB- using Miss Tomes ' bonnet for a wing -RRB- against a tempestuous snow-storm ; of being blown off upon a bleak mountain-side , which changed suddenly to a sea of bread and milk ; and of swimming , under great difficulties , to overtake Amos , who was dashing away before a spanking breeze , in the yacht Junius , with a colossal wooden spoon for a sail . 
WHEN Martin awoke , the light of day was streaming through the windows of his quiet chamber . 
He started up in some surprise , not knowing at first where he was ; but presently recollection dawned upon him . 
He remembered the antique bureau , with its many drawers and quaint brass handles ; the little round stand , with a neat white cloth and a big Bible upon it ; the windows , with their old-fashioned sashes and white curtains ; the rag-carpet , blue chairs , and biblical pictures which set off the floor and the walls , -- all which he had observed the night before . 
At the same time , his adventure , with all its dependent circumstances , rushed like a flood upon his memory , and he was broad awake in an instant . 
On arising , Martin found a bowl and pitcher of water , covered with towels , at his chamber-door . 
Some careful hand had set them in there that morning , without disturbing his slumber ; he seemed to recognize Martha in the act , and thanked her for it . 
He conveyed the apparatus to one of the blue chairs ; but , before washing , curiosity impelled him to look out of the window . 
Martin saw the tall Jared shovelling a path through hard embankments to the barn , -- an exhilarating sight , which made the farmer 's life look romantic and attractive in his eyes . 
On going down stairs , Martin found his hostess engaged in preparing breakfast . 
Her countenance lighted up at sight of him , and she hastened to inquire how he had passed the night . 
cried Martin , heartily . 
`` I do n't know , '' said Martin , with a smile , and a shake of the head . 
`` More than everything else , '' added Martin , fervently ; `` and the great Representative of that principle , -- my reverence for Him makes the heroes and philosophers of history shrink into insignificance . '' 
`` I saw you shovelling snow , '' said Martin , `` and thought perhaps you were hunting for my hat , which is supposed to be buried somewhere in this region . 
Martin said that he would like nothing better , and , a hat being found to fit him , he went out with Jared . 
The latter could afford him no time to shovel snow , however . 
He wanted to show him his premises , which had a very interesting and picturesque appearance that morning . 
The novelty and beauty of these scenes Martin enjoyed much . 
He assisted in foddering the sheep , feeding the hens , and watering the horses ; but Amos would not let him milk either of the cows in the stable , -- wisely warning him that , if he was n't used to it , he would spatter himself all over , and spoil his clothes . 
Martin blushed , and told Mr. Doane that he had adopted the best means he could think of for shutting his mouth . 
`` And true souls may both give and receive in silence , '' replied Martin . 
His clear features and deep hazel eyes radiated the thoughts which streamed in upon him . 
There is a time to heat the iron as well as to beat it , -- a silent operation that , accompanied with much blowing of the bellows ; '' and Junius expanded his lungs by way of illustration . 
`` You do not disdain a pun , I see , '' said Martin . 
Martin and Junius steered out boldly on the broad ocean of thought ; nor did Mr. Jared and Martha fail to keep in speaking distance . 
At length Martin took an observation , -- in plain words , looked at the clock , -- and suddenly put his helm hard aport . 
He felt the necessity of making his way through the drifts to his uncle 's house thus early , in order to return to Boston , if possible , that night . 
Martin could have desired no better arrangement . 
It was a great relief to think of mitigating the awkwardness of his visit by an introduction . 
Accordingly , having promised to call on the Doanes again before he returned to Boston , he took leave of them , and set out with his new friend for Summer Hill . 
`` I have not yet been able to learn what my uncle 's malady is , '' Martin said to his companion , as they tramped across the fields . 
exclaimed Martin . 
`` I should have spoken of him before , '' Junius went on , seating himself on the top of a wall , to which he had climbed , over the drifts . 
`` Go on , '' said Martin , agitated ; `` I am dying to know all about this matter . '' 
He himself was swift and silent in action ; and it is owing to his exertions , probably , that the colonel 's life was saved . '' 
They were left alone for some minutes ; and the anxious Martin endeavored to divert his mind from the doubts and misgivings so natural to his situation , by inspecting the volumes of an elegant book-case in the corner . 
Junius sat drying his feet by the fire , when suddenly a graceful girl of eighteen entered , almost noiselessly , and took him playfully by the ear . 
`` I was , at first , '' replied Louise , seating herself in a rockingchair , with her back towards Martin . 
Junius glanced pleasantly at Martin , who , from being quite pale with excitement , colored to the roots of his hair . 
The speaker looked directly over Louise 's shoulder at Martin , who stood a perfect picture of embarrassment and surprise , and began his description , -- which was not a very flattering one to the subject in some particulars , yet strikingly correct . 
When he came to traits of character , he astonished Martin by his wonderful power of reading human nature . 
Her full form and exquisitely rounded features , together with her charm of manner and expression , produced an electric effect on Martin . 
His heart fluttered ; in his cheek the blood ebbed and flowed tumultuously ; he stood transfixed before his lovely cousin . 
Louise received an additional shock of surprise when informed who Martin was . 
Martin , elate with joy , took the hand , and a kiss with it . 
His own audacity frightened him ; but the fair Louise was too much enraptured with her new-found cousin to be at all disturbed . 
Martin was giving a humorous account of his adventures between Boston and Summer Hill , when a fourth person -- a tall , fine-looking woman -- entered the room . 
The hand she gave to Martin was as ice . 
He felt it , and was chilled . 
Martin forced his way through the barrier of reserve his aunt 's spirit threw up before him , -- it was worse than breaking through snow-drifts , -- and inquired about his uncle . 
Her answer was not wanting in politeness ; and she offered to carry the news of his arrival to the sick chamber , and learn when a visit from him would be agreeable to the invalid . 
Martin thanked her , and she withdrew . 
Colonel Merrivale was sitting up in bed , reading his favorite political paper , when his wife entered the room . 
At the opening of the door , he turned his head with visible eagerness ; but , perceiving who the comer was , he resumed his reading with an expression of countenance not remarkably flattering to her presence . 
Colonel Merrivale 's white face bleached out whiter still , and his brow knotted up with anger . 
Somewhat pale , and with a tremor of apprehension in his nerves , Martin appeared , and advanced to his uncle 's bedside . 
At sight of that white face , and the kindly smile it wore , his heart became quite softened , and he greeted the invalid not without glistening eyes . 
Martin hastened to support him . 
The colonel recovered presently , and , opening his eyes , looked up with a faint smile at Martin , from his pillow . 
I hoped I had experienced the last of them , '' he said , in a feeble voice . 
`` You understand now why I never brought you here before , '' said he , drawing Martin towards him . 
Intelligent and sympathetic , Martin gave his uncle 's hand a warm pressure . 
As for the latter , he was less confidential than diplomatic ; his heart overflowed with kindness , promises and excuses -- a fruitful source of perplexity to poor , dissatisfied Martin . 
Merely because I showed myself pleased with Cousin Martin , just now , you had to put on one of your hateful ways . 
After a time , Louise joined them ; and at length Martin , flushed and abstracted , came from the conference with his uncle , and sought to forget his trouble in the hilarity of the morning . 
And quite well he succeeded . 
He tried the grace-hoop with his charming cousin , who was now as gay as ever ; crowning was not infrequent , and sweet debts , payable in the coin of kisses , were incurred . 
How prompt Martin was to make a `` tender , '' as lawyers say , when the debt was his ! 
How eager to present his bill , when the forfeit was on the other side ! 
-- where Martin 's vows and promises of love ? 
Louise was only his cousin . 
The time arrived for Martin to depart ; all the urgent solicitations of Louise and John having failed to alter his resolution , formed on leaving his uncle 's chamber . 
Martin 's cousins were delighted with the proposition . 
Once on the road , she recovered her temper , and did much to make Martin forget that he was taking leave for the first , and , perhaps , for the last time , of Summer Hill . 
It was a memorable ride ; the only fault Martin found with it was its briefness . 
Yet he was not sorry to arrive at the parsonage . 
Margaret , who ran out joyously to greet her friends , appeared to him like a new revelation of female loveliness . 
There was an indescribable charm about her which filled him with a thrilling sense of beauty ; not so much in her form and face -- which were fair indeed -- as in her manner , her expression , the light of her eyes , and the tones of her voice . 
When introduced to Martin , a blush and a smile flashed into her features radiantly . 
Martin was wonder-struck and speechless . 
It is certain that he never appeared so stupid in his life . 
articulated Martin . 
Martin blushed with pride and pleasure . 
Martin blushed more violently than ever , -- this time with mortification . 
`` It is because I had no opportunity to tell you , '' replied his sister . 
For the loss of my hat , I have been compensated with the acquaintance of the Doanes , of your brother here , and , last and best of all , '' said Martin , gallantly , `` of yourself . '' 
By this time the party was comfortably seated in the cosiest of parlors , and Margaret , listening to the account of Martin 's adventures , removed John 's tippet from his neck , and warmed his cold hands in hers . 
She appeared to regard him with more than sisterly solicitude . 
So Martin thought ; nor did he blame her ; for , as John sat by the fire , with his gentle eyes and calm face turned towards her with a sweet smile , there was a spiritual beauty in his expression rarely seen upon the face of mortals . 
The scene had a strange effect on Martin . 
His features beamed with indefinable aspirations , and tears came into his eyes . 
Louise rallied him , and , apologizing for his abstraction , he took a seat near her . 
But how unsatisfactory to Martin ! 
The depths of his spirit had been stirred ; infinite longings had been awakened within him ; he thirsted for purest waters of the soul ; and all his talk with the bright Louise seemed painfully frivolous . 
Then why attempt to account for the change which had come over Martin ? 
It was as if an angel hand had swept the hidden keys of his heart , and drawn forth tones of ineffable sadness and sweetness -- so subtle was the influence that stole into the holiest recesses of his nature . 
You will not leave me any more ; and I shall have my brother Martin with me , sometimes sha n't I ? 
He has been so good -- so good to me ! '' 
`` I saw my brother Martin falling -- falling -- and I could not save him , '' replied the blind girl . 
At the book-keeper 's suggestion , he had run around to Mr. Wormlett 's boarding-house , on leaving the store , to inform Martin what had happened to Alice , and where she was . 
`` He wa n't to hum , though , '' said he , as the blind girl bent eagerly forward to hear the news . 
`` He 's gone into the country some'er 's , they said . '' 
`` I knew he went , '' cried Alice . 
`` But he was to come right back . 
I thought he would be here to-day . '' 
`` O , yes , '' said Miss Tomes , `` Martin will come and see you , the moment he returns ; I am sure he will . 
You do n't know how well he loves you . 
I left a note for him , telling him all about it ; so that , if he goes to the house while I am away , he will know where you are to be found . 
He will come here the first thing . '' 
But once more the shadow , that had stood between her and Martin , arose before her ; it approached , and , laying one hand upon her heart , and the other upon the heart of Miss Tomes , thrust them asunder . 
`` She lives where my brother Martin does , '' Alice went on ; `` and , do n't you think , she says he will come and see me the first thing , when he gets back from the country . '' 
AFTER the departure of Louise and John in Colonel Merrivale 's sleigh , Martin walked with Junius to the village , -- a pleasant , old-fashioned little place , -- and purchased a hat , to replace the one he had lost . 
He then went to return the article borrowed of Mr. Jared Doane ; spent an hour or more in conversation with the excellent Martha and her brother ; and finally took leave of them with as much interest and sympathy as if he had known them for years , and learned all their gentle qualities by heart . 
They arrived at the parsonage just at tea-time ; and Mr. Murray -- a happy old gentleman , in wig and spectacles -- joined his daughter Margaret in inviting Martin to remain and give them his company at supper . 
It was a memorable night for Martin . 
The simple piety of the parson ; the high spiritual philosophy of his son ; the aroma of purity and grace that surrounded Margaret , like the fragrance of a flower ; sweet influences these , that filled him with a holy rapture . 
His purest feelings were drawn out ; all that was good within him seemed stimulated and aroused ; his whole being was sanctified , -- his soul baptized in floods of sacred fire . 
On the following morning , as he returned by the cars to Boston , he could not but look back upon that night as a turning-point in his existence . 
All things were changed to his eyes . 
A great fountain of love seemed swelling up in his heart , and flowing out , flowing out , to God , to all his creatures , even to inanimate things . 
Two days before , the fiery Martin would have shook him off and flung back his insults into his very teeth ; but now he had forgiveness enough for twenty such poor , unfortunate slaves of ignorance and selfishness , and his eyes filled with tears of compassion as he looked on him . 
`` I do n't know whose seat this is , '' said he , mildly ; `` I supposed I had a right to it ; but I would rather walk to Boston than see any man angry , such a glorious winter 's day as this is . '' 
In Boston , change still met Martin 's eye , -- change objective , no less than subjective , -- without of himself , as well as within himself . 
Street-signs were changed ; fires had devastated familiar spots ; and , arrived at his boarding-house , he found that quite a revolution had occurred . 
The news of Alice 's departure came upon him with a shock ; he scarcely gave heed to the whisper that Grandfather Wormlett was dying , but hastened to the house in Pleasant-street . 
He had spent all that morning trying to discover traces of them , but without success ; and Martin knew not what more could be done . 
He felt sick at heart . 
A deep shadow of trouble rested upon his spirit , so lately light with joy , and he walked back to Portland-street with Mr. Leviston in silence . 
Martin has fled from Portland-street . 
as Turnlip , the quack-doctor , whispers to Martin . 
Martin , however , does not appreciate the screaming and thundering of her musical performances . 
He is blind to her fascinations . 
is the query of Martin 's mind . 
Her highly genteel manners affect him not . 
At Martin she levels all the artillery of her smiles . 
Her weak prattle of authors and books is intended expressly for his ear . 
Martin can scarce be reconciled to his change of life . 
Not that he has become very strongly attached to the Wormlett family . 
Not that he misses the society of Miss Tomes very much , or that the genial Toplink is indispensable to his happiness . 
Alas for Martin , that at this late hour he should feel the want ! 
Only Sophronia 's exterior has charmed him . 
The soul he looked for he finds not . 
She can not accompany his spirit in its range . 
The waters of a pure , deep , universal love , which swell and palpitate within him , which he must , of a necessity , pour out on some one , are wasted on her . 
Sophronia can not but perceive his frequent coldness and abstraction . 
So she pouts and frets most charmingly , and shakes her lovely curls with all the innocent artfulness that first brought Martin to her feet . 
Sometimes he forgets the ache he feels , -- or tries to , at least , -- and seeks momentary consolation in endearments . 
The still , small voice of prophecy speaks within him , and says , `` Between her and thee there can be no union . '' 
She is certain that Martin loves another . 
She throws out bitter taunts about blind Alice , then about his cousin Louise , and lastly about Margaret Murray , of whose rare womanly qualities he has often spoken . 
One evening Martin finds her in a desperate state . 
She flings his daguerreotype at him half across the room . 
She tells him to go away from her , the false , cruel , heartless man , and falls upon the sofa , covering her face in a passionate fit of weeping . 
Martin , alarmed and distressed , draws forth the secret of her woe . 
`` You give her to me very much as if she were a torpedo to blow me up , '' says Martin , smiling . 
repeats Martin , with the drollest look . 
Martin laughs again , until laughter becomes painful . 
But presently the affair assumes a serious aspect , and so does he . 
Sophronia has a quiver full of little facts , gathered he can not guess where , which she shoots at him in rapid succession , with telling effect . 
Then wherefore does he writhe ? 
Ah , Martin ! 
Martin is chafed beyond expression . 
He finds that circumstances most commonplace and trivial have been repeated to that cousin of hers , by the confidential Miss Tomes . 
It is as if a swarm of insects were stinging Martin . 
It is as if , after a bath of brine , he had been rubbed dry with nettles . 
he cries . 
He does not leave her , though , just at the moment ; how can he , with her arms about his neck , and her fair head , with all its wealth of beautiful curls , upon his shoulder ? 
Not so Martin . 
He contemplates revenge . 
He studies how he shall overwhelm that vain Miss Tomes with the avalanche of his indignation . 
But a little reflection teaches him that noise about such an affair should be avoided . 
And , after a little while , Martin walks forth , his thoughts purified of evil . 
The serene stars inspire him ; his soul expands ; he aspires to that majesty of manhood which , in the pain of injuries inflicted , smiles , forgives and loves . 
And henceforth he feels only the warmest wishes for Miss Tomes ' happiness . 
He calls to see her , with gifts . 
No word he breathes of all that he has heard ; no look informs her that her weakness has been betrayed . 
Very careful he is , truly , what nonsense he utters ; and he taketh pains , indirectly , to convince her that he has nothing but friendship for her ; that is all . 
Martin has labored faithfully and fondly , all this time , to develop in Sophronia the soul his soul yearns for ; to turn her pretty tinsel of affection into gold ; to enkindle under all a generous fire , to burn away the dross . 
This labor of love -- he pursues it still . 
To wean her from the idols of a false and frivolous life , he introduces her into sweet fields of poesy ; takes her hand to lead her up the glorious hills of song ; gives her to drink of immortal streams of thought . 
To awaken in her a love of the good , the beautiful , the true , he lavishes his wealth of feeling upon her , freely as he would pour out water to thirsty kine . 
But she turns from all with weary yawns . 
In the midst of his noble enthusiasm , she proposes backgammon ! 
Again and again the still small voice within him repeats -- `` Between her and thee there can be no union . 
He begins to understand those feelings of blind Alice which he accounted unto her for jealousy . 
He can conceive now how he used to carry home to her an influence so uncongenial to her pure spirit . 
He thinks he comprehends why it was he never wrote so truthfully and sweetly when daily and nightly all his sympathies were drawn down to so low a level . 
It was as Alice said : from the mountain he was climbing he looked off upon a valley , and saw a beautiful mist curling up from below . 
Charmed by its shining waves , he descended to meet it ; when gradually all its beauties disappeared ; the mist , after all , was but a cold , wet mist , that chilled him , and absorbed the vitality of his spirit . 
He sees it all now , and his only wish is -- to retrace his steps . 
But he is not heartless , nor devoid of conscience . 
He would spare Sophronia the anguish of a separation . 
He is even willing to sacrifice his happiness for hers . 
Martin 's sufferings in this struggle can not be told . 
How bitterly he repents the ignorance , the blind impulse , which led him into this fatal maze of error ! 
Sophronia , who , when the crisis arrives , declares herself heart-broken , and threatens to drown herself , knows not a tenth part of his soul 's agony . 
But a sense of duty impels him , and the deed is done . 
Sophronia is his Sophronia no longer . 
murmurs the crushed Martin . 
`` It is not with her as it is with you , '' that stern censor goes on , as if he felt a savage joy in torturing the man who could be guilty of the treachery he hates . 
groans Martin , `` what can I do ? '' 
Faithful friend as he is , there is nothing tender about George Leviston . 
He means well ; but his words sound coarse to Martin ; they grate upon his sensitive nature . 
Sometimes Martin seeks what honeyed solace he can from the thought that he might have been far less manly ; that he might have continued to dissemble and deceive , drawing his neck from under the yoke sneakingly by degrees ; that he might have subjected Sophronia 's love to the slow death of a year 's neglect and doubt , as cowardice and indecision would have counselled him to do . 
Was it not well to be true -- to turn speedily about , the moment he felt well assured that he was travelling the road of error ? 
but still conscience clings to him , and rides upon his shoulders with a scourge ! 
Taking up a morning paper , at his boarding-house , he reads that a female , young and well-dressed , lately committed suicide by throwing herself off South Boston bridge . 
repeats the ghastly Martin . 
Martin is almost too weak to ascend the stairs ; but he somehow accomplishes the feat , and sinks , faint , and pallid , and trembling , upon a chair . 
echoes Martin . 
`` Do you mean -- '' Tiplilly does mean every word he says . 
Having been sent for , he visited Sophronia last night , and all their differences were made up . 
No wonder that he is beside himself with joy ! 
No wonder that Martin expresses his congratulations in such gleeful mood that Tiplilly thinks him the most disinterested and enthusiastic friend in the world . 
Martin can not rest until he has imparted the news to Leviston . 
This he does with a fidelity to circumstances which makes that misanthropic gentleman laugh -- really and truly laugh -- for the first time in some years . 
`` I shall have more in future , '' says Martin , red with shame . 
More discernment he certainly has . 
What has tempered his youthful blood to such discretion ? 
Martin is no prophet . 
`` But not without letting my brother Martin know ! '' 
`` My child , '' her father answers , falsely , `` you do n't know how many times I have been to find him ; but he is not often in town , I think ; and when he is , he has not time to come and see you . 
He is writing great books , I hear , and is very proud and ambitious . '' 
When at the window of her own poor little room , where the winds of June , blowing over the city roofs , kiss her warm brow and agitate her curls , her inner sight is opened , and she sees fair visions of Martin far away . 
And in the silence of the night , when ghostly noises haunt the rooms of that old house , causing her to shudder with a vague , superstitious fear , she loves to cheat herself with the fancy that he is near , and will protect her from harm . 
That he has quite , quite forgotten her , O , she can not , she can not believe ! 
Perhaps my brother Martin walks there now , and he may see us . '' 
Of her friends he entertains a worse dread than of all the world beside ; and Martin he dreads more than all . 
LEVISTON the misanthrope was alarmed at the change which had come over Martin . 
He saw him shun society , and go wandering up and down in solitary mood , too much after his own sad fashion to merit his approval . 
And , with the very best intentions , he exerted himself to be of service in his case . 
But of the workings of that finer spirit he knew nothing ; he was insensible to the voice of conscience speaking ever in Martin 's soul , and to the subtle chains that vexed his impatient feet . 
So that his best counsel sounded cold , and hard , and out of place , to his friend 's sensitive ears . 
One evening -- it was this same fourth of July -- he saw him seek the loneliest streets for his walk , and followed him , taking his arm . 
Martin was not glad to be thus interrupted in his meditations ; but , resigning himself as best he could , he entered into conversation with his self-appointed mentor . 
`` My dear Leviston , '' replied Martin , with feeling , `` I know you are ; and I thank you ; but you do n't know how much you pain me . 
Martin was silent , and his friend heard him sigh . 
interrupted Martin , incensed , `` do you think I need watching over like a child ? 
`` If anybody but you said this , '' interposed Martin , with spirit , `` I should certainly knock him down . 
Do n't go and play the same part over again that you played with Sophronia ; if you do -- '' Stung to the quick , Martin abruptly shook off his friendly adviser , and left him without a word . 
Martin rushed through the crowd towards the door , followed by Cheesy . 
He ran against M. Peliqué , who was coming out of the house with an arm-full of pictures . 
he demanded , seizing the Frenchman in his excitement . 
rang out the voice of Martin . 
Martin had no thought of waiting for the firemen , who were but just arriving on the spot . 
He bounded into the hall , and sprang blindly up the stairway , followed by Cheesy . 
Martin acted upon the advice , and climbed higher still , until he could hear the roaring of the flames , and feel the stifling smoke roll over him . 
shouted Martin . 
Cheesy stripped off his jacket , and thrust it into his friend 's hands ; then fled , panic-stricken , from the scene . 
Martin whipped the garment around his face , and rushed athwart a flood of flame that poured from the burning apartments into the third landing . 
On the stairs above , he paused amid the dense smoke , in the hope that the blind girl 's cries would guide him to the room . 
No cries reached his ear , however ; and he was struggling up farther , in uncertainty , when he tumbled over a body on the stairs . 
he cried , lifting up the form of a man . 
And Martin dragged the brave Robert through the fire , across the landing , and left him on the flight of stairs below . 
But now the voice of Alice , crying wildly for help , came to Martin 's ear , inspiring him with fresh courage and new strength . 
How the feat was accomplished he himself could not have told ; but a minute later he had the blind girl in his arms , with Cheesy 's jacket wrapped about her face and bosom , bearing her downward through the fire . 
The danger was passed , and with his burnt hands he removed the garment which was smothering her in its close folds . 
`` My brother Martin ! '' 
cried Alice , clinging to him with strange energy . 
exclaimed Robert Synders , staggering to his feet as Martin passed through the hall with his burden . 
cried Martin to the excited youth . 
He hastily put down his burden , and returned , heated , scorched and half-stifled as he was , into the midst of the burning building . 
But this time he was not alone . 
Two firemen mounted the stairs by his side . 
It was well , perhaps ; for the attics were now all aflame , and in his impetuosity he might have risked his life in the tide of fire that rolled up the stairs , had he not been restrained . 
asked the boy , eagerly , as Martin struck his shoulder . 
demanded Martin . 
Quelling a certain exasperation of feeling that swelled up in his heart against Cheesy , Martin , alarmed for the safety of the child , joined him in the search . 
was the sole reply forced from Martin 's overcharged heart . 
Meanwhile the subject of all his trouble is making her way from the fire as fast as her little feet can carry her . 
Not alone : the form of a man by her side appears , hurrying her along . 
`` But my brother Martin -- he brought me out of the fire , and went back for you . 
I have not even thanked him yet . 
Do -- do let me speak with him once more ! '' 
`` Went back for me , did he ? 
`` But me -- he brought me down . 
I should have burnt up , if it had not been for him . '' 
Ca n't I just speak to my brother Martin ? '' 
Twenty times the poor child asks the question , with every argument her tremulous little heart can devise . 
A young man was here from Boston -- '' `` Was it Martin ? 
-- was it my brother Martin ? '' 
`` Yes , it was Martin ; and he told me all about you , my poor girl . '' 
do you know where he is ? 
And will you send for him to come and see me ? '' 
`` I know where he is , and he shall be sent for , and you shall stay till he comes , '' replied Martha Doane . 
The passion with which she spoke alarmed even the strong wife of Colonel Merrivale . 
But what has all this to do with Colonel Merrivale ? '' 
`` I told you of one who loved me before my folly : his was a sincere love , -- for slighting that alone I deserve my punishment . 
But after I had become what I am , another loved me -- loves me to this day -- would give his life , I do believe , to save mine , with all my unworthiness . 
I have tried to escape from him , but he followed me when I came from Philadelphia , '' -- at that word Mrs. Merrivale starts , -- `` and he has persecuted me ever since . 
I will not speak his name , but it was this last who stabbed your husband . '' 
`` He thought to win my love by killing the man that wronged me . 
In the dark he mistook Colonel Merrivale for Mr. Milburn . '' 
But I would not injure him . 
asked Martin . 
`` Some ten days , '' replied his faithful friend and attendant . 
And Martin resolutely began to dress himself after the fashion of well people , in the face of his friend 's remonstrance . 
echoed Martin . 
exclaimed Martin . 
`` The one superscribed in a lady 's hand came five or six days ago , '' said his friend . 
I knew it was from that young woman -- Miss Murray -- out by Summer Hill , and you are so excitable -- Martin interrupted him with a strong expression of indignant disapproval . 
At the same time his eager fingers opened the letter . 
In an instant his countenance changed , lighting up joyfully . 
he exclaimed . 
cried Martin . 
`` Now , look here , '' said his thoughtful friend . 
Martin was more than half in earnest . 
He abused him -- Martin 's term for the treatment -- in his harshest manner , at the same time lending him money , and assisting to pack his valise . 
The news spread with rapidity among the boarders that Martin was going to the country . 
Some congratulated him on his decision ; two or three warned him against imprudence ; and Miss Clove , the lady supposed to have had her wits shattered by an early disappointment , shed tears at his departure . 
She had been like a Sister of Charity to him during his illness , bringing him all sorts of delicacies , such as a sick man should never touch , and talking to him most kindly and tediously when he wanted to sleep ; and , in remembrance of her attentions , he presented her with a copy of `` The Lady of the Lake , '' at parting . 
Miss Befflin , too , whom he had never before seen at so early an hour of the day , came languishingly from her chamber , in sylph-like attire , to bid him good-bye . 
She simpered and sighed , and gave him her hand with the tenderest look ; wished him the speedy recovery of his health and a speedy return ; confessed how lonely the house would seem during his absence ; suggested that a letter from him would be held precious ; and made such a motion of putting up her lips , that , notwithstanding the repugnance inspired by visible cosmetics , Martin could not refuse the expected kiss . 
But when he advanced with lips all charged and primed , she uttered a modest little scream , and covered her face . 
`` Excuse my boldness , '' said he , glad to withdraw . 
She assumed a resolute air and gave him a mincing smack . 
`` O , beware , my lord , of jealousy , '' whispered Martin . 
By the way , '' he added , gravely , `` let me give you a little advice before I go . 
Martin thought his joke spoiled by a most disastrous chance . 
He had been overheard by Mrs. Befflin , under the stairs . 
He reddened , expecting to see her justly indignant at the light manner in which her daughter 's name had been spoken ; but he was spared that mortification ; she was never so gracious before ; doubtless regarding his mock-advice to George as serious counsel , and a high compliment to Cicily 's charms . 
He took leave of her civilly , and restrained his feelings until he had got into the coach at the door . 
he cried . 
`` Take the advice of a friend , and beware of -- '' `` Keep your head inside , or you 'll take cold , '' growled George , not well pleased at being thus cheated , by a jest , out of a sincere last word of warning he had been meditating for Martin . 
Twenty minutes later , seated in the cars , Martin was travelling at high railroad speed into the country . 
The day was fair and sweet ; the summer verdure of the woods and fields charmed his eye , and the breezes that blew in at the windows inspired him with new health and strength . 
Eager as he was to meet his friends , the journey seemed brief ; the station was reached , and he found himself in the village stage-coach , before he had recovered from the first exhilaration of breathing the country air . 
This time , Martin rode inside and kept his hat on his head ; yet with no small degree of interest did he look out to discover the scene of his well-remembered chase across the fields . 
Martin saw nothing but pleasant slopes , covered with waving corn and billowy rye , meadows and pasture-lands stretching far away , and fair groves shaking their green banners in the summer wind . 
Martin had but two companions -- a middle-aged female , in a faded bonnet , and a redfaced , corpulent old gentleman , in a vast , double-breasted , black satin waistcoat , and a heavy , well-preserved , old-fashioned dress-coat , with an enormous high collar and steel buttons . 
Martin had directed the stage-driver to set him down at the door of Mr. Doane 's cottage ; and , arrived there , he was surprised to see his companions make preparations to alight with him . 
She first greeted Martin affectionately , and then turned , with a countenance full of sympathy , to receive the other visitors . 
She accordingly left the latter with Martin in the sitting-room , and entered the adjoining chamber with Uncle Joe , who bore up stoutly , until he saw his darling lying so pale and emaciated -- so worn and changed -- on the couch , and looking towards him with those strange , burning eyes . 
`` Is n't your name Merrivale ? '' 
asked Mrs. Grayle of Martin , in an interval of grief . 
`` You need not be alarmed for Alice , '' said Martha , as soon as she could speak to answer Martin 's questions . 
Her greatest trouble now is that her brother Martin does not come and see her . 
Did n't Junius write you that she was at his father 's ? '' 
There 's not a word about it in his letter , '' cried Martin . 
`` I will not detain you , '' replied Martha , smiling at his eagerness . 
There was such a fine magnetism in her warm nature , and Martin felt its softening influence so strongly , that he was but too happy to promise what she asked . 
So , charging him to remember , she let him go , and watched him with a countenance full of solicitude , relieved with bright gleams of hope and joy , as he disappeared in the direction of the parsonage . 
She made no reply , but ran out impulsively , and presently reäppeared , accompanied by the excited Martin . 
I have had my share of sickness lately , '' replied Martin . 
exclaimed the exhilarated Martin . 
Through a fair garden , and across a shady orchard , he followed Margaret 's guidance , until they came out upon an undulating meadow . 
who was reading , with his elbow upon the grass and his chin upon his hand , while the child sat by with her hands folded upon her breast and her face clothed in a sweet veil of pensiveness , looked up from his book , and saw his sister and Martin watching them from above . 
Martin placed his finger on his lips , and came forward , stepping softly . 
Junius asked what she heard ; but , without answering , she turned her face towards Martin , extending her hands , and began to climb the bank . 
The next moment Martin had her in his arms ; she nestled in his bosom like a bird , embracing his neck and weeping joyfully . 
he asked , fondly , after a lapse of several minutes , during which much had taken place that need not be reported . 
At length , with a faint smile , she extended her hands , and having found one of Margaret 's and one of Martin 's , she joined them , and gliding from the young man 's arms , laid herself down quietly upon the grass at their feet . 
faltered Martin , trembling with a fearful joy . 
He shall eat no more drugs ; the parsonage is better than a hospital ; the intercourse of friends , joy , and sympathy , and hope , minister to his mind diseased , while the winds of summer breathe a fresh , warm , spring-tide life into his veins . 
Martin feels quite at home at the parsonage . 
His room appears to have been waiting for him ever since he slept there , one memorable night , months ago . 
More than this , Margaret -- whose mother lies in the little grave-yard just visible over the hill -- is the busy housekeeper at the parsonage , and her presence seems to have left a perfume and a charm in Martin 's chamber . 
He exults in the sunshine like young kittens . 
The breezes fan him ; birds , and brooks , and whispering leaves lull him with their music ; the refulgent woods and fields and grand old hills delight his eye with pictures , while mother earth cradles him to softest dreams on her voluptuous lap . 
He hath the range of the fields : sometimes he goeth forth alone , and may be seen , in the heat of the day , lying in the shade of trees , or standing with his feet in running streams , like cattle . 
But most frequently he taketh a companion . 
Now he leadeth Alice by the hand ; they go by the brook-sides , through sweet-smelling meadows , and under the leafy canopy of the groves , talking of love and dreams . 
Now he is accompanied by the good pastor himself , who delighteth in nature as a child ; and their conversation is of life , literature , and spiritual laws ; or the genial old man relates portions in his past experience , of which the young author will make use in future compositions . 
Martin thinks he has genius , and should write . 
answers Martin . 
`` A useful apprenticeship , let us trust , '' replies his friend . 
Martin is privileged to go or come , to talk , or read , or write , or range the fields , as he may be in the mood . 
Crowds of company are not called in to exercise him in the dull routine of etiquette . 
Nor is he expected to pay for the hospitality he enjoys by making calls with his friends . 
He visits the Doanes -- nobody else ; not even his uncle 's family . 
Louise Merrivale , who rides down to the parsonage with her invalid brother , and is on the best of terms with her cousin Martin , will not urge him to come up to the Hill , on account -- she says it boldly -- of her hateful mother : `` she do n't blame him at all for staying away . '' 
Sitting under a hedge , picking berries , they playfully feed each other , until the kisses Martin 's crimsoned fingers take away have made him desperate with delicious pain . 
cries Margaret , as , having tempted her to open her lips for a plump berry , he places it laughingly between his own . 
He bends forward , -- and O , such perilous glances as he pours into her deep eyes ! 
-- and offers her the berry in his lips , at the same time holding her hands . 
Martin whispers into the blind girl 's ear . 
Martin places his finger on his lips , for Margaret is within hearing . 
On the Sabbath , -- a still warm day , so peaceful and so pure that the cackling of the hens hath a strange sound , -- Martin goes to church with the family . 
The village meeting-house is not far off ; so the little party proceeds on foot ; and blind Alice walks between Margaret and Martin , while Junius and his father come more slowly after . 
Encouraging her , as best she can , Margaret conducts her friends up the meeting-house steps , under the silent porch and through the cool aisle , and seats them in the minister 's pew -- Alice between her and Martin . 
A pleasant gloom rests upon the calm faces and the empty seats which Martin sees around him . 
Indefinable sensations creep over him , and floods of memory rush upon his heart , till tears dim his sight , and his head sinks upon the back of the pew before him . 
When the organ is silent , and the voices of the choir appear to have floated up and dissolved in the listening ear of heaven , and the rustling of dresses has ceased ; when only the fluttering of fans is heard , with now and then a half-suppressed cough in the congregation ; when the pulsations of the tolling bell have died , like circular waves , on the wide lake of silence ; -- Martin looks up . 
He is just in time to see Mrs. Merrivale sweep with a great stir into the slip before him , followed by Louise , while the colonel , far more gentle and reserved than his wife , stands patiently holding the pew-door . 
Martin 's soul is fed , and , under the inspiration of the sermon , he pencils the following lines on a blank leaf of Margaret 's hymn-book , and gives them to her to read . 
Junius sits with the choir , and Martin recognizes his voice in the singing . 
Also another voice , of singular beauty , clear , soaring , joyous , strikes his ear with a familiar sound . 
`` It was Miss Doane , '' Margaret assured him , on the way home . 
`` I am never tired of studying her face , '' returned Martin . 
`` They have their reward , '' said Martin . 
Martin 's stay at the parsonage was abbreviated somewhat by an unexpected occurrence . 
Thus it happened that Martin was pressed into the service . 
The reverend man dragged him forward like a culprit , and forced from him an introduction which gave two additional guests to Mr. Murray 's house . 
This was bad enough ; but what vexed Martin most was the delight those good people evinced at meeting him . 
Had he been a nephew or cousin of dear memory , they could not have assumed more familiar terms of friendship . 
Hence the haste with which Martin that same forenoon deserted the parsonage , and went to hide his remorse and mortification in the neighboring farm-house . 
Clara Grayle had been removed to Boston by her friends ; Alice was at Miss Doane 's , where she had been since Sunday , on account of her father 's illness ; and Martin thought no better time could be chosen for the `` long visit '' he had promised . 
He was accompanied across the fields by Junius . 
Having changed companions , Martin proceeded on the way at a quick pace . 
`` I doubt if she could be kept away , '' replied Martin . 
Martin found Caleb in greater peril , and Alice in deeper distress , than he had expected . 
`` O , my brother Martin ! '' 
Martin spoke to him , but he did not look up . 
said Martin , again , taking his hand , `` how do you do this morning ? '' 
asked Caleb , with a sickly gleam in his haggard face . 
`` My dear Caleb , '' replied Martin , `` there is no crime . 
cried the blind girl , kneeling at his feet , and embracing them . 
`` Here is your child , Mr. Thorne , '' said Martin , placing his arm affectionately around her , and laying Caleb 's hand upon her breast . 
And Caleb , throwing his feet upon the lounge , allowed Martin to arrange the pillows beneath his head . 
`` But to sleep well , I must be satisfied on one point , '' -- raising himself on his elbow . 
He lay down , and closed his eyes , but sprang up again almost immediately . 
`` O , no , '' returned Martin ; `` it has sung the same tune for more than seven years . 
Martin drew the weeping Alice gently away , while Jared took his seat by Caleb , and frightened the flies from his face with a fan . 
Old Mr. Doane , with a shrewd glance at Martin : `` I 'll have the whole story from him now ; do n't say anything ! 
Martin , who sat by his bedside , conversing with Miss Doane in whispers , -- Alice , worn out , had fallen asleep with her head on Martha 's lap , -- arose and bent over him , asking him if he was comfortable . 
`` A flash of lightning , '' replied Martin . 
`` Your wounds are healed now , '' said Martin , `` and you will be better soon . 
`` It is brandy , '' said Martin . 
cried the blind girl , flinging herself upon his bosom . 
Once more Martin offered Caleb the tumbler ; but he put it aside again , after touching it with his lips . 
The sick man slept at intervals during the night ; but his slumbers were light , and the least noise in the room awoke him . 
At half-past two he called , `` Mary . '' 
Not long after , Martin took the blind girl from his arms . 
His lips moved no more . 
`` Mary '' had come for him , and they were gone together . 
Only Martin could afford Alice any consolation . 
When the first burst of her grief had subsided , he folded her in his arms , and sat down by the open window of her chamber . 
Martin came out frequently from Boston to see her , bringing delicate fruits and other gifts to cheer her ; and when he was absent , Junius and his sister filled his place . 
The blind girl felt a deep sympathy in the experience of Colonel Merrivale 's consumptive son , and at one time she often enjoyed his society at the parsonage . 
But during the sultry weather of August , he failed rapidly , and when the child , suffering from wounds of grief still fresh , needed him most , he was unable to come and see her . 
First , a word about Martin and his literary prospects . 
These had improved rapidly during the summer ; so that , in the month of October , -- one year from the day he travelled on foot into Boston , in company with Cheesy and Caleb Thorne and Alice , with the Beggar of Bagdad on his back , -- he found himself one of the most popular of the young writers then coming into notice . 
Yet , even with this success , Martin found his profession hard and precarious . 
True , when the inspiration to write seized him strongly , he could dash off , in a fine frenzy , an article that would pay him from five to ten dollars a day -- sometimes more -- for the time occupied in its composition . 
It took Martin months to learn this truth . 
He thought the eagle should fly forever . 
Sometimes , full of health and vigor , he would seat himself at his table , -- expecting the same joy of the imagination he felt the day before , to lift him up again and bear him on its waves , over the stormy difficulties of his task , -- and find the waters stagnant . 
He could not understand the phenomenon , at first ; and often , when his work was to be done , he would labor through it drearily , with disgust and pain . 
He learned to rest content , even when for days his mind lay like a desert , producing no fruit . 
Now up in the sunshine , now down in the shadow , like the side of the earth we live on , -- he welcomed the spirit 's night of darkness and rest , as well as its day of thought and light . 
But at the same time he could not earn so much money with his pen as Mr. Drove and Mr. Killings , begrudging what they paid him , supposed . 
`` In the first place , I can not very well spare the time , '' replied Martin . 
Martin accepted the proposition with eagerness , and a few days after , he might have been seen leaving the office of the True Standard,arm-in-arm with the editor . 
But , '' said Martin , blushing , `` this is not my first visit here . 
`` You are too sensitive , '' replied his friend . 
So saw Martin also . 
It was the same polite publisher to whom he had first submitted the manuscript of the Beggar of Bagdad . 
With what distinctness the old scenes recurred to his mind ! 
He wondered if he whose careless words , all in the way of business , had fallen like a blight upon the flower of his hope , remembered that epoch ! 
`` I need not say , '' replied Martin , `` that it would afford me great pleasure to prove you a true prophet . '' 
He touched Martin 's shoulder significantly . 
Martin acknowledged the compliment with a blush , a bow and a smile . 
`` I have endeavored to steer as clear of that as possible , '' replied Martin , with a smile . 
He thought of the Beggar of Bagdad . 
It should be made to meet the needs of society , '' said Martin . 
Surprise and gratification made Martin 's eyes glisten . 
Yet he could not help saying that he was afraid the publisher might regret the confidence he saw fit to place in him . 
`` If I suit myself , it will be for the first time , '' cried Martin . 
-LRB- He had most assuredly forgotten the Beggar of Bagdad ! -RRB- 
`` It was mere trash , '' returned Martin , with a humorous twinkle of the eye . 
The publisher bowed his visitors out of his shop , and Martin went away arm-in-arm with his friend , as he had come . 
`` I tell you , '' said he , warmly , `` I left this goodly place one year ago with different feelings . 
`` And sit like patience on a monument , smiling at delay , if literary success is your ambition , '' added Martin . 
And here we will leave him , in the flush of a fresh and hopeful purpose , and turn our eyes to other actors in this irregular drama . 
In other respects , too , he has changed somewhat since the day when he walked into Boston with Martin . 
If taller , he is less plump ; his voice has lost much of its coarseness , and his cheeks much of their color ; and his speech , if slightly improved in elegance , has acquired that quality at the expense of its vernacular freshness and force . 
He sports a ratan , and shaves ; and , one year from the date of his inauguration in Sniffenden and Co. 's , he burst upon the world , in all the morning glory of a smart suit of clothes . 
The early dawn thereof -- the first faint streaks -- appeared in the timid turning-up of his shirt-collar , the more careful tie of his neckerchief , and the oiling of his hair . 
He says , explosively , that he trotted into Boston by Martin 's side . 
Lo , what a gay company honors Colonel Merrivale 's house ! 
Louise would have her cousin Martin at the wedding , but her mother -- who , since the death of John , has shown an unusual degree of bitterness in her hostility to the young man -- would not listen a moment to the proposition . 
Only Colonel Merrivale paces up and down its lonely walks . 
Colonel Merrivale seldom prolonged his walks beyond the precincts of his private grounds ; but one evening he ordered his phaeton , and drove to a lonely spot on an obscure road , back from the village . 
`` Here -- take the reins , '' said he to the coachman , who accompanied him . 
`` Is it Martin ? '' 
`` Yes , Alice , it is Martin , '' replied the mellow voice of Margaret , in its happiest tones . 
Let me take these seeds , or he will scatter them all upon the ground when he catches you in his arms . '' 
The arrival of Martin was a joyful surprise for his friends at the parsonage . 
But scarce had the delight of the greeting passed , when he aroused their indignation by declaring that he had not ten minutes to stop . 
`` I am to visit my uncle , '' said he , with enthusiasm . 
`` He has sent for me ; I am impatient to see him ; let me go now , and I will return and spend the night with you . '' 
`` A fair promise , '' replied Margaret , smiling , -- how her soft voice and softer eyes made Martin 's bosom swell ! 
laughed Martin . 
He gave one arm to Margaret , and passed the other around the blind girl 's form . 
`` I will take it up , '' cried Martin ; `` and you shall go and show me the way , Margaret : I have forgotten it , and I do n't think Junius knows . '' 
He tripped lightly up stairs , accompanied by the fair housekeeper . 
He did not speak , until he had entered his chamber , opened the valise , and taken out a book . 
`` I give it to you with joy , and yet with fear , '' said he , advancing to Margaret , with glistening eyes , holding the volume with both hands . 
Margaret caught it from his hands , and pressed it between her own , and glanced her eager eye over its external beauties . 
All present perceived that something animated her , but only Martin could guess what . 
She kept the secret until he was gone ; then led the blind girl to her room , where she had left her treasure . 
My dear brother Martin ! 
I am sure we shall find some of his pure and noble thoughts in it . 
Junius accompanied his friend to Summer Hill , and left him half-way up the avenue , where they were met by Colonel Merrivale . 
`` I had quite given you up for to-day , '' said the latter , pressing Martin 's hand with unusual warmth of manner . 
`` It was not easy to pass the parsonage , '' responded Martin . 
`` I will not go in to-night , -- I thank you , '' said Junius ; and , without apology or compliment , he took his leave . 
exclaimed the colonel , as he walked up the path with Martin . 
`` I think two-thirds of our so-called politeness deserves a different name , '' returned Martin . 
`` I neither smoke nor taste , '' replied Martin . 
`` John -- I loved him , '' said Martin , with a sudden swelling of the heart . 
Martin turned away his face . 
Still Martin could not speak . 
`` John should have lived , '' murmured Martin , struggling out of his emotion . 
You unfortunate , Martin ? '' 
The picture was not without its charms to Martin 's eye . 
A paradise of all sweet things seemed suddenly to have been thrown open to him , and cool fountains , golden fruits , and rainbow-tinted flowers , invited him to enter . 
He thought of his poverty ; of the dubious future ; of Margaret , who should be a sharer in every delight ; of Alice , dear as a sister , whom he would keep ever near him ; and the love of opulence , inherent in our nature , overshadowed him with a power never felt before . 
`` She did not love me , '' said Martin . 
Martin walked nervously to and fro . 
Martin spoke with passion and tears . 
Colonel Merrivale sat with his head upon his hand until the conclusion of his vehement speech ; then , with a sigh , looked up . 
demanded Martin , with the fire of impatience in his eye , and something like fierceness in his tone . 
As he did so , Martin observed that his hand trembled . 
`` That infant Martin -- he was not an elder brother , as I would have made you believe . 
He was your cousin . '' 
And his father -- '' `` Sit down , and calm yourself , or I can not proceed . '' 
`` He whom you called myfather -- was my uncle ! '' 
faltered Martin . 
`` Then you -- '' The ashen pallor that overspread his face alarmed the colonel . 
He sprang forward and caught him in his arms . 
he exclaimed . 
Martin struggled feebly ; his head was fallen on his breast ; he spoke no word . 
In vain Colonel Merrivale strove to soothe him ; he seemed quite conquered . 
You know her , Martin . '' 
gasped Martin . 
He broke from his father 's arms , and reeled blindly against the wall . 
Martin put it aside with a feeble hand , hanging heavily over the window-sill . 
`` I shall be better soon , '' he faintly said . 
You see , I am strong , '' said Martin , with a ghastly smile , arising to his feet . 
His hat stood upon the table in plain view ; he seemed to see it , yet his hand groped for it , as if he had been blind , or the room dark . 
Having found it , and put back his disordered locks from his forehead and cheeks , he covered himself and walked unsteadily to the door . 
`` Thank you , '' then said Martin , releasing himself . 
`` You are wild and desperate , my boy , '' replied his father , keeping by his side . 
Martin appeared to gasp for breath . 
`` It is a small favor , '' he pleaded , like a sick man . 
`` You need not fear for me ; I shall not harm myself , nor any one , '' Martin resumed . 
-- pressing his hand upon his breast . 
if pleading will not do -- '' He flung his father off with sudden passion . 
He hastened down the path . 
Colonel Merrivale perceived that it would not be well to balk him then ; yet he could not forbear following him , at a short distance , as he moved off into the gloom . 
The last glimmer of twilight had faded ; but the sky was clear and starry , and it was not so dark but he could keep him easily in view , and observe his motions . 
Unfortunately Martin at the same time saw that he was watched . 
he cried out in agony , throwing up his arms , `` send me blessed patience ! 
Martin was alone . 
He went down into the road , and supported himself by the wall ; he laid his forehead upon the cold stones . 
He had been some minutes in that position , when his name was called from the avenue above . 
He did not look up nor move until he heard footsteps coming near . 
It was not his father 's voice that called ; it was not his father that approached him now in the darkness . 
`` Colonel Merrivale told me to bring you this outside coat , sir , '' said the man . 
`` You are very kind , '' replied Martin . 
`` A sharp frost would play the mischief with your fruit-trees , '' returned Martin . 
At the same time Martin walked off in another direction , leaving the garment where it fell . 
He heeded nothing . 
He climbed the fence , and wandered across the fields . 
He came to a corn-lot , and threw himself on his face upon the damp earth . 
For half an hour he lay there as if dead , -- except that now and then a groan of unspeakable heart-sickness convulsed him . 
At length he sat up . 
He brushed the moist dirt from his clothes with his unconscious hands , and , turning his head slowly , looked around him . 
He listened to these sounds , and thought of the world -- the world that lay all around him , hushed and hid -- the world that ate and drank and slept , that laughed and danced and played its awful farce , even at that hour , while he lay there , alone in the wide universe , beneath the stars ! 
He gazed at them from the ground on which he lay , until their serenity and grandeur and distance filled his soul to an insupportable sense of pain . 
he cried out , with his hands and eyes raised to heaven . 
Once more he stood erect : he wandered -- he knew not whither . 
Unconsciously his feet strayed into a swamp , full of damps , and bogs , and stagnant pools . 
Now he came in contact with invisible tall trunks ; then over decaying logs , covered with wet moss or slippery slime , he stumbled in the dark ; and often his foot sank with a dull splash into the foul water of some sleeping puddle . 
More than once he broke crashing into the sharp and brittle branches of a tangled tree-top , fallen in the swamp . 
At another time these scenes and sounds would have filled his mind with horrible imaginings ; but he scarce heeded them now . 
He felt no pain from wounds and bruises of the flesh . 
When he laid himself down across the roots of a great elm , with his head and arms pillowed upon a rotten log , it was not from conscious fatigue ; and when he once more resumed his dreadful tramp , it was with no definite thought of finding his way out of the woods . 
Instinctively following a glimmer of light , he came upon an opening , and saw the yellow moon , not long since risen , breaking through bright rifts of cloud that mantled the east . 
How often and how often , gazing upon that fair planet 's cold , white sail , floating upon the starry deep of night , had Martin 's heart been stirred with love and longing , and an inexpressible sad joy ! 
An hour later , Martin had found his way to an old and decayed orchard , within sight of the parsonage . 
In one of the darkest of these , Martin threw himself upon the ground ; he could see the house of his friends , and a light in Margaret 's window . 
By this time he had begun to rally his shattered faculties ; he reviewed the past , he considered the present , he gave a thought to the future . 
He felt that all was lost -- all that he had lived for , all that made life sweet ; and there was but one resource left him -- to tear himself from every scene he held dear ; even from this , dearest of all . 
Of his new book , in which he had centred many hopes , he could not think without sickness of heart ; it was , as it were , swamped in his grief . 
But that was nothing ; he thought of other things . 
The common crowd he recked not of ; many choice friendships he could sever without much pain ; but Junius -- Alice ! 
-- Yet even those flowers of love , deep-rooted in his heart , he could pluck out , and live . 
Martin had resolved to be calm , to reason soberly , to act a man ; but when the thought of her rolled its insupportable burden upon his soul , he closed his teeth and clenched his hands tightly in his hair , to keep from crying out in his torment . 
I know not how long he watched the light in the window ; it was an age of suffering to him . 
At length it was extinguished ; all was dark at the parsonage ; and on the black back-ground of his misery arose the fair picture of Alice and Margaret sleeping in each other 's arms , so free from grief , so happy , while he , within sight , within an arrow 's reach , lay writhing in his pain ! 
He rose to his feet , and fell again heavily upon the ground . 
Another half-hour dragged its heavy weight over him . 
He had not stirred from the posture in which he had fallen , when his soul was aroused to consciousness of outward things by the sound of footsteps . 
Then he heard his name timidly and softly pronounced . 
He turned upon his damp bed ; he gathered himself up , and looked out from under the hedge . 
he cried . 
Before he could arise , Margaret had thrown herself upon her knees at his feet . 
`` What is the meaning of this , Martin ? '' 
Martin could only say , `` O , Margaret ! 
bowing his head upon her outstretched hands . 
`` I lost my way , '' replied Martin , with an effort at self-control , `` and I think I got in the swamp . '' 
If you love me , Martin , come ! '' 
I am glad , -- for your sake , Martin ; you have desired so much to go ! 
Martin 's voice was hollow , but he spoke like one who had considered and resolved . 
`` You shall know everything , '' said he , melted by her sympathy and affection . 
`` You need not tell me now , '' answered Margaret , placing her arm tenderly around him , to steady his footsteps . 
`` It is not with the cold , '' said Martin . 
` O , no , ' said she ; ` but my brother Martin -- my dear brother ! 
You must go and find him . 
` I can tell you where he is . 
I saw him -- I know I can not be mistaken . ' 
This done , she for the first time ventured to look at Martin . 
He sat watching her listlessly . 
His look was haggard , his hair disordered , his clothes bespattered . 
He had sunk to his knees in the black mud of the swamp ; his linen was torn , and there were streaks of blood upon his face . 
She brought dry garments , water and towels , for his use ; and besought him to make haste and change his dress by the fire , while she went up to pacify Alice . 
He obeyed mechanically . 
On her return , she found him washed and cleanly clad . 
But the fire had imparted no warmth to his chilled frame . 
He shook as with an ague . 
She made him sit down by the stove ; she held his icy hands in hers ; she breathed upon them with her warm breath , and kissed them with her warm lips . 
he murmured , -- and now his frozen tears began to melt , -- `` how kind you are ! 
She took his head upon her shoulder ; she pressed his cold forehead to her cheek . 
He ceased to shake ; only at intervals a shiver ran over his flesh ; a genial heat radiated to his feet and hands . 
Then , lying in that more than motherly , more than sisterly embrace , he told his story . 
He uncovered to Margaret 's sight the horror and shame and grief of his soul . 
The confession made , he struggled gently to arise , but she held him fast . 
Yet no word she uttered ; only the heaving of her breast answered him . 
said Martin . 
And , believe me , O , believe me , Martin ! 
Is it possible that such generous sentiments are yours , Martin ; and are you here , to-night , weighed down by an error of the past ? 
It is your pride that now revolts ; and your pride is a false pride -- it is the world 's pride , Martin . 
No , no , Martin ! 
Martin made no answer , but , in an excess of gratitude , sank upon his knees before Margaret , embracing her hands . 
To other themes they turned , communing sweetly ; and the waters of sympathy that flowed fell healing upon the recent wound in Martin 's breast ; and when Margaret talked to him of his mother , and told once more the story of her life , with tender reminiscences of the patience , and charity , and serene trust in God , she had displayed in all her trials , he could only clasp her hand and weep . 
`` You have given me the rest I needed , '' answered Martin . 
Once in his room , he threw himself upon the bed . 
But he could not rest . 
He went to the window , and looked out . 
The cold moonlight whitened all the earth , but the moon itself , sailing towards the haven of the west , was invisible from his window . 
A few pale stars looked down upon him from the infinite blue ; -- pale with watching they seemed , and paler still they grew as the east brightened . 
He gazed upon them until , their vigils ended , at the approach of the great orb of day their gentle eyes closed in sleep . 
Over his soul at the same time there stole a calm ; once more he laid himself upon the bed , and his thoughts , fading like the stars , withdrew into the heaven of dreams . 
How like a miracle it wrought in Martin 's troubled brain ! 
It was as if soft vapors of the Lethean stream had taken him up from earth upon their golden cloud , and wafted him into Elysium . 
Too soon the cloud dissolved ; too soon his eyes of sense reöpened to the day . 
The bright sun was pouring beams of splendor through the maple tree-tops into his room , and in the yard below the hens were cawing and cackling in the warmth of the spring morning . 
He was amazed , but almost instantly the vivid lightning of consciousness flashed upon him ; and , falling back upon his pillow with a groan , he clasped his hands over his eyes . 
With sensations like those of remembered sickness , he recalled the events of the night . 
Vague shapes of horror thronged his memory , ghastly as visions of disordered sleep ; but over all there dawned a bright light , and in the foreground of the picture appeared the image of Margaret . 
And , by her side , another image looked upon him with a countenance full of unspeakable tenderness . 
O , then it seemed that all the yearnings for a mother 's love his orphaned childhood and lonely youth had ever felt rushed back upon his heart in an overwhelming tide ! 
The desire to know that love seized upon him like a mighty inspiration . 
Anxious and trembling , yet burning with the fire of a new-born sympathy , he hastened across the fields . 
Margaret , who had gone before to prepare Martha Doane for the interview , stood waiting in the door of the farm-house : she took his tremulous , cold hand , and led him to a darkened room . 
There she left him ; and there also let us leave him . 
Martin is lying like a tired child , with his face in his mother 's lap ; and like a child he weeps , while , with her tearful features illumined by a great joy , she smooths his dark locks with her loving hand . 
`` No ; I did not see your father all this time , '' -- she thus makes answer to a question he has just asked . 
It was arranged that you should be privately placed in the care of a nurse ; your uncle Martin and his wife , who were spending the year in Italy , were to make their appearance with you , as their own child , on their return . 
murmured Martin , pressing the hand that fondled his locks . 
There was forgiveness in the act , in the tones of his voice , and in the deep sigh of emotion that heaved his breast ; and she went on with her story . 
`` I understand now , '' said Martin , `` how it was that my father '' -- he shuddered at that word -- `` conceived the idea of educating me as his nephew . 
`` Last night it crushed me , '' said Martin . 
And it has always seemed to have some connection with -- '' He paused , while an expression of trouble darkened his features . 
At the same time he involuntarily placed a hand upon his shoulder , as if the pain were there . 
`` Alice has told me , '' rejoined his mother , agitated . 
Martin undid his neck-tie . 
Meanwhile his mother opened a drawer , and a box within the drawer , and took out a jewel . 
With trembling hands she laid bare his neck to the shoulder ; and there , indelibly written upon the white tablet of his skin , she found the hieroglyph of destiny . 
`` It is an ugly spot , '' said Martin . 
She embraced him with unrestrained ardor of affection , kissing the mark again and again , and wetting it with her tears . 
You can know nothing of that agony , Martin ! 
exclaimed Martin . 
Martin answered fervently that he could . 
Then into his ear his mother breathed the secret of what had taken place at her last interview with Colonel Merrivale , three nights before . 
Martin was deeply touched . 
For the first time he pronounced his father 's name with tender emotion . 
His heart was made lighter and happier ; and he wept . 
He now felt a strong desire to see his father once more . 
She bade him obey that impulse , and sent him away with her blessing . 
He found Margaret in the kitchen playing cat 's - cradle with old Mr. Doane . 
Martin shook hands with him , not without emotion ; and the two young people departed together . 
At the gate Martin and his companion met Amos , who appeared rubbing his eyes with his knuckles , and crying piteously . 
Margaret took him in her arms , and spoke to him with such kindness that his grief burst forth afresh . 
Either the child 's sobs or Margaret 's sympathetic manner made quite a woman of Martin . 
He shed tears like a girl . 
Amos catalogued the names of his persecutors , amid explosions of grief . 
But Martin , who regarded his case with peculiar sympathy , kindly took one of his hands , while Margaret took the other , and said a few words which decided him to return with them . 
To Martin it was a sight full of beauty and pathos , to see her he so loved and admired take by the hand each of the thoughtless offenders , and tell them how sorry she was to hear what they had done . 
This was a trifling incident in itself , but to Martin it was of dearer account than the story of his country 's freedom . 
`` You transfigure the world to my sight , '' said he , as he walked on by her side . 
Margaret had quite forgotten the care of dinner ; and the filial impulse that moved in Martin 's breast when he arose to go to his father was absorbed in a deeper emotion . 
Martin was alarmed . 
He took her in his arms , and soothed her with kind words ; and in a little while her panting bosom moved more peacefully , and a heavenly light shone through her tears . 
`` My child , -- you see I call you a child still , although you are fast becoming a woman , '' at length said Martin , -- `` my dear Alice , your love is very precious to me ; and in my happiest moments I have thought of you most . 
She made no reply ; she trembled in Martin 's arms . 
She struggled from Martin 's embrace , and hastened from the room . 
Again the fire of filial emotion flamed up in Martin 's heart . 
Full of humility and charity , he went to meet his father . 
Junius accompanied him on his way to Summer Hill : he talked of the blind girl 's love . 
`` I have watched it , '' said he , `` with a secret joy . 
returned Martin . 
exclaimed Martin , fervently . 
murmured Colonel Merrivale . 
responded Martin . 
returned his father , mournfully . 
`` If there be any virtue in others ' prayers , my mother 's have made you whole , '' answered Martin . 
Martin 's head sank upon his father 's bosom ; and from that hour all walls of separation were broken down between them . 
`` I can , '' replied Martin , calmly . 
The color came in Martin 's cheeks ; but it passed ; and he smiled too -- serenely ; and the eye that answered the gaze of his father 's friend was clear and beautiful as the pure sky over their heads . 
And thus Martin met the world : first with a blush , then with the serenity of conscious truth . 
wert thou blessed with spiritual sight , thou mightest see the demon falling , falling forevermore , while from the seraph 's sword of flame flash rays of the eternal life on Martin 's soul . 
It might , indeed , be related how Martin and Margaret , joined as one spirit and one flesh , shed the fragrance of their pure lives all about Summer Hill , laboring together for humanity and love ; how Martha and Jared , and the good old man their father , -- although the last went to heaven before the lapse of many years , and became a strong young angel , -- lived in the light of those two luminous souls ; how Colonel Merrivale , washed in the baptism of the better life , put on clean garments of purity and faith ; how Theodore Milburn , enraged at seeing another heir step in between him and the property at Summer Hill , vented his spleen upon his unhappy young wife ; and how poor Louise , flying to the welcoming arms of her new brother and sister , and laying her sick head upon their hearts , drank of the cup of peace at their hands ; then how Alice , growing in years and strength , recovered , by a beautiful miracle of nature , her outward sight , yet without ever losing her inward vision , and brought to Junius a whole heaven of joy and blessing , as his wife . 
But , with all this , it would be the duty of an impartial historian to give the future history of George Leviston , who lived an old bachelor and boardedall his days , except when spending his summer vacations at Summer Hill ; of the good Miss Tomes , who became the good Mrs. Flinks -LRB- Flinks of `` Bounding Billows '' memory -RRB- ; of Mr. Tiplilly and lady , who flashed like meteors through the sky of fashion ; of the Wormletts , father and son , wriggling and jerking their way through life ; and of the immortal Toplink , who , going to board at Mrs. Befflin 's after Martin left , became caught in the snares of the fair Cicely ; -- so let us make haste to turn this last and perhaps most welcome leaf of all , and say -- Farewell . 
