Your 's is -- '' `` Thornton , '' replied my countryman . 
I said to Mr. Thornton , that I would give him many reasons for fighting after I had fought . 
The one was Thornton ; the other -- who could he be ? 
The face of Thornton 's companion haunted me like a dream ; and , to say the truth , there were also moments when the recollection of my new engagement for the evening made me tired with that which I was enjoying the troublesome honour of keeping . 
At a small distance from him , and playing , with an air which , in its carelessness and nonchalance , formed a remarkable contrast to the painful anxiety of the man I have just described , sate Mr. Thornton . 
At first sight , these two appeared to be the only Englishmen present besides myself ; I was more struck by seeing the former in that scene , than I was at meeting Thornton there ; for there was something distingué in the mien of the stranger , which suited far worse with the appearance of the place , than the bourgeois air and dress of my ci-devant second . 
It was the same person I had seen with Thornton that morning . 
Never to this moment have I forgotten the stern and ferocious expression with which he was gazing upon the keen and agitated features of the gambler opposite . 
`` Pray , Vincent , '' said I , after a short pause , `` did you ever meet with a Mr. Thornton , at Paris ? '' 
`` Thornton , Thornton , '' said Vincent , musingly ; `` what , Tom Thornton ? '' 
`` I should think , very likely , '' I replied ; `` just the sort of man who would be Tom Thornton -- has a broad face , with a colour , and wears a spotted neckcloth ; Tom -- what could his name be but Tom ? '' 
`` Is he about five-and-thirty ? '' 
At his house , Thornton met many persons of rank , but of a taste similar to their host 's : and they , mistaking his vulgar coarseness for honesty , and his quaint proverbs for wit , admitted him into their society . 
It was with one of them that I have seen him . 
I believe of late , that his character has been of a very indifferent odour : and whatever has brought him among the English at Paris -- those white-washed abominations -- those ` innocent blacknesses , ' as Charles Lamb calls chimney sweepers , it does not argue well for his professional occupations . 
`` Yes , because rogues are like spiders , and eat each other , when there is nothing else to catch ; and Tom Thornton is safe , as long as the ordinary law of nature lasts , that the greater knave preys on the lesser , for there can not possibly be a greater knave than he is . 
If you have made his acquaintance , my dear Pelham , I advise you most soberly to look to yourself , for if he doth not steal , beg , or borrow of you , Mr. Howard de Howard will grow fat , and even Mr. Aberton cease to be a fool . 
I suppose that the reader has already discovered that this man was Thornton 's companion in the Bois de Boulogne , and the hero of the Salon de Jeu , in the Palais Royal . 
Have you seen any thing of Mr. Thornton lately ? '' 
Mr. Thornton had called upon me twice , and twice I had returned the visit , but neither of us had been at home to benefit by these reciprocities of politesse . 
His acquaintance with my mysterious hero of the gambling house and the Jardin des Plantes , and the keen interest I took , in spite of myself , in that unaccountable person , whom I was persuaded I had seen before in some very different scene , and under very different circumstances , made me desirous to increase a connoissance , which , from Vincent 's detail , I should otherwise have been anxious to avoid . 
I arrived at Thornton 's chambers in the Rue St. Dominique . 
I turned to the dark and unclean staircase , and , after incredible exertion and fatigue , arrived , at last , at the elevated abode of Mr. Thornton . 
Thornton himself sat by a small consumptive fire , in an easy chair ; another table , still spread with the appliances of breakfast , viz . 
a coffee-pot , a milk-jug , two cups , a broken loaf , and an empty dish , mingled with a pack of cards , one dice , and an open book de mauvais goût , stood immediately before him . 
Thornton rose , with an air half careless and half abashed , and expressed , in more appropriate terms than his appearance warranted , his pleasurable surprise at seeing me at last . 
There was , however , a singularity in his conversation , which gave it an air both of shrewdness and vulgarity . 
`` ` Fore Gad , you are in the right , Mr. Pelham , '' replied Thornton , with a loud , coarse , chuckling laugh , which , more than a year 's conversation could have done , let me into the secrets of his character . 
Thornton 's face brightened . 
Thornton 's grey eyes twinkled . 
said he . 
I looked full upon Thornton as I said this ; he changed colour , and answered my gaze with a quick glance from his small , glittering eye , before he replied . 
Thornton was evidently disconcerted . 
said he , after a short pause , and another of his peculiarly quick , sly glances -- `` Oh , that man ; I have known him a very short time . 
and Mr. Thornton affected to look down in a complete reverie of dim remembrances . 
I saw , however , that , from time to time , his eye glanced up to me , with a restless , inquisitive expression , and as instantly retired . 
cried Thornton , eagerly , and utterly off his guard . 
Thornton again appeared to relapse into his recollections . 
cried he , `` Warburton -- that 's it -- that 's the name -- is it the one you supposed , Mr. Pelham ? '' 
On Sunday , then , Mr. Thornton -- au plaisir ! '' 
I shall have him yet . '' 
The next day a note was brought me , which had been sent to my former lodgings in the Hôtel de Paris : it was from Thornton . 
`` I beg you to accept my repeated excuses , and remain , `` Dear Sir , `` Your very obedient servant , `` Thomas Thornton . 
What could possibly have induced Mr. Tom Thornton , rogue as he was , to postpone thus of his own accord , the plucking of a pigeon , which he had such good reason to believe he had entrapped ? 
`` I will soon see , '' thought I ; and wrapping myself in my cloak , for the day was bitterly cold , I bent my way to Thornton 's lodgings . 
His behaviour in the gambling house ; his conversation with the woman in the Jardin des Plantes ; and the singular circumstance , that a man of so very aristocratic an appearance , should be connected with Thornton , and only seen in such low scenes , and with such low society , would not have been sufficient so strongly to occupy my mind , had it not been for certain dim recollections , and undefinable associations , that his appearance when present , and my thoughts of him when absent , perpetually recalled . 
`` Could you not make something out of that tall , handsome man , who Thornton says is so rich ? '' 
`` Thornton tells me , that he has won thousands from him , and that they are mere drops in his income . 
Thornton is a good , easy , careless fellow , and might let me into a share of the booty : but then , in what games can I engage him ? '' 
`` Well , '' thought I , `` if this precious personage does starve at last , he will most richly deserve it , partly for his designs on the stranger , principally for his opinion of Thornton . 
If he was a knave only , one might pity him ; but a knave and fool both , are a combination of evil , for which there is no intermediate purgatory of opinion -- nothing short of utter damnation . '' 
I soon arrived at Mr. Thornton 's abode . 
The first thing I saw was the dark , rough coat of Warburton -- that person 's back was turned to me , and he was talking with some energy to Thornton -LRB- who lounged idly in his chair , with one ungartered leg thrown over the elbow . -RRB- 
`` Ah , Mr. Pelham , '' exclaimed the latter , starting from his not very graceful position , `` it gives me great pleasure to see you -- Mr. Warburton , Mr. Pelham -- Mr. Pelham , Mr. Warburton . '' 
`` I was mistaken , '' thought I , `` when I believed him to be above such associates as Thornton -- they are well matched . '' 
`` My dear Sir , '' said Thornton , `` I am very sorry I could not see you to breakfast -- a particular engagement prevented me -- verbum sap . 
Mr. Pelham , you take me , I suppose -- black eyes white skin , and such an ancle ; '' and the fellow rubbed his great hands and chuckled . 
`` Really , '' he answered drily , and without moving from his uncourteous position , `` Mr. Thornton only can judge of the niceties of his peculiar tastes , or the justice of his general excuses . '' 
Thornton bit his lip , more , I should think , at the manner than the words , and his small grey eyes sparkled with a malignant and stern expression , which suited the character of his face far better than the careless levity and enjouement which his glances usually denoted . 
Thornton eyed me with one of those peculiar looks which so strongly reminded me of a dog , in deliberation whether to bite or run away . 
he said , after a short pause . 
`` He does slap it down on the colours now and then , '' replied Thornton . 
God forbid that I should say any such thing , '' replied Thornton ; `` you wo n't catch an old lawyer in such imprudence . '' 
`` No , '' resumed Thornton , `` I know nothing against Mr. Tyrrell -- nothing ! 
He may be a very good man , and I believe he is ; but as a friend , Mr. Pelham , -LRB- and Mr. Thornton grew quite affectionate -RRB- , I advise you to have as little as possible to do with that sort of people . '' 
Thornton looked as if he had expected a very different reply ; and Warburton said , in an abrupt tone -- `` Whoever enters an unknown road in a fog may easily lose himself . '' 
Another pause ensued -- and , finding I had got all from Mr. Thornton and his uncourteous guest that I was likely to do , I took my hat and my departure . 
In the first place , I have not ascertained why I was put off by Mr. Thornton -- for as to his excuse , it could only have availed one day , and had he been anxious for my acquaintance , he would have named another . 
I have , however , discovered , first , that he does not wish me to form any connection with Tyrrell ; secondly , from Warburton 's sarcasm , and his glance of reply , that there is but little friendship between those two , whatever be the intimacy ; and , thirdly , that Warburton , from his dorsal positions , so studiously preserved , either wished to be uncivil or unnoticed . '' 
The latter , after all , was the most probable ; and , upon the whole , I felt more than ever convinced that he was the person I suspected him to be . 
I looked round , and saw Thornton in close conversation with a man whose back was turned to me , but whom I rightly conjectured to be Tyrrell . 
He came up instantly to Thornton and his companion ; and after a few words of ordinary salutation , Warburton said , in one of those modulated tones so peculiar to himself , `` I am sure , Tyrrell , that you must be eager for your revenge . 
The soi-disant marquise opened it herself , for which kind office Thornton gave her a leer and a wink , characteristic of his claims to gallantry . 
He was too rich to profit by any sums he could win from Tyrrell , and too much removed from Thornton 's station in life , to derive any pleasure or benefit from his acquaintance with that person . 
His dark threats of vengeance in the Jardin des Plantes , and his reference to the two hundred pounds Tyrrell possessed , gave me , indeed , some clue as to his real object ; but then -- why this disguise ! 
-- this , indeed , seemed probable enough ; but , was Thornton entrusted with the secret ? 
Warburton and Thornton followed him ; the latter with his usual air of reckless indifference -- his quick rolling eye glanced from the marquis to myself , and though his colour changed slightly , his nod of recognition was made with its wonted impudence and ease ; but Warburton passed on , like Tyrrell , without noticing or heeding any thing around . 
He turned round to Thornton -LRB- who was already talking with the marquis -RRB- as he said this , and waved his hand , as if to prevent his following ; the next moment , Tyrrell and himself had left the room . 
I turned , and saw Thornton . 
Thornton was crossing the road towards us ; I waved my hand to him civilly enough -LRB- for I never cut any body -RRB- , and drove rapidly through the other gate , without appearing to notice his design of speaking to us . 
Need I say that this pithy and pretty address proceeded from the mouth of Mr. Tom Thornton . 
He was somewhat more than half drunk , and his light prying eyes twinkled dizzily in his head . 
I could not help remarking , that Thornton seemed singularly less sleek than heretofore : his coat was out at the elbows , his linen was torn and soiled ; there was not a vestige of the vulgar spruceness about him which was formerly one of his most prominent characteristics . 
He had also lost a great deal of the florid health formerly visible in his face ; his cheeks seemed sunk and haggard , his eyes hollow , and his complexion sallow and squalid , in spite of the flush which intemperance spread over it at the moment . 
However , he was in high spirits , and soon made himself so entertaining that Dartmore and Tringle grew charmed with him . 
As for me , the antipathy I had to the man sobered and silenced me for the rest of the night ; and finding that Dartmore and his friend were eager for an introduction to some female friends of Thornton 's , whom he mentioned in terms of high praise , I tore myself from them , and made the best of my way home . 
The speaker was Thornton . 
I thanked him coldly for his civility , and was going on , when he said , `` If your way is up Pall Mall , I have no objection to join you for a few minutes . '' 
`` It is a cold night , Mr. Pelham , '' said Thornton , after a pause . 
As Thornton uttered that name , he looked hard at me , and then added , `` By the by , I saw you with Sir Reginald Glanville the other day ; you know him well , I presume ? '' 
`` What a strange character he is , '' rejoined Thornton ; `` I also have known him for some years , '' and again Thornton looked pryingly into my countenance . 
Poor fool , it was not for a penetration like his to read the cor inscrutabile of a man born and bred like me , in the consummate dissimulation of bon ton . 
said Thornton , after a brief silence . 
answered Thornton . 
Thornton sighed . 
`` Mr. Pelham , '' renewed he , `` it is true I have known you but a short time -- excuse the liberty I take -- but if you could lend me a trifle , it would really assist me very much . '' 
`` Mr. Thornton , '' said I , `` if I knew you better , and could serve you more , you might apply to me for a more real assistance than any bagatelle I could afford you would be . 
Thornton 's face brightened . 
`` A thousand , thousand -- '' he began . 
`` Upon my honour , '' said Thornton , `` I will never ask you for another farthing . '' 
`` There is honour among thieves , '' thought I , and so I took out the sum mentioned , and gave it to him . 
I sent Thornton to the nearest public-house for some water ; before he returned , Glanville had recovered . 
By this time Thornton had joined us . 
When Glanville 's eyes rested upon him , a deep hectic rose slowly and gradually over his cheeks . 
Thornton 's lip curled with a malicious expression . 
Thornton 's quick , restless eye , grew like a living coal , and he bit his lip so violently that the blood gushed out . 
He made , however , no other answer than -- `` You seem agitated to-night , Sir Reginald ; I wish your speedy restoration to better health . 
`` And let live , '' thought I. I was just going away , when I heard a loud laugh on the stairs , and immediately afterwards Thornton entered , joking with one of the markers . 
He did not see me ; but approaching the table , drew out the identical twenty pound note I had given him , and asked for change with the air of a millionaire . 
Thornton was playing as eagerly with his small quota as Lord C -- with his ten thousands . 
He nodded with an affected air of familiarity to Tyrrell , who returned his salutation with the most supercilious hauteur ; and very soon afterwards the baronet was utterly engrossed by the chances of the game . 
I had , however , satisfied my curiosity , in ascertaining that there was no longer any intimacy between him and Thornton , and accordingly once more I took my departure . 
After we had discussed it , we spoke on more familiar topics , and , at last , he mentioned Thornton . 
This day he spoke of Thornton with a tone of indifference . 
At last he turned , and muttered something between his teeth ; and at that moment the door opened , and Thornton was announced . 
and with these words he flung Thornton against the opposite wall with such force , that the blood gushed out of his mouth and nostrils . 
He rose in a few moments , and said to Thornton , `` Pardon my violence ; let this pay your bruises ; '' and he placed a long and apparently well filled purse in Thornton 's hand . 
That veritable philosophe took it with the same air as a dog receives the first caress from the hand which has just chastised him ; and feeling the purse between his short , hard fingers , as if to ascertain the soundness of its condition , quietly slid it into his breeches pocket , which he then buttoned with care , and pulling his waistcoat down , as if for further protection to the deposit , he turned towards Glanville , and said , in his usual quaint style of vulgarity -- `` Least said , Sir Reginald , the soonest mended . 
I was already at the door , with the intention of leaving the room , when Glanville cried , `` Stay , Pelham , I have but one question to ask Mr. Thornton . 
answered Thornton , with a sardonic smile . 
`` Mr. Thornton , '' said Glanville , with a calm voice , `` I have now done with you -- you may leave the room ! '' 
Thornton bowed with an air of ironical respect , and obeyed the command . 
I looked out , and saw Thornton standing in the yard , attired with all his original smartness of boot and breeches : he was employed in smoking a cigar , sipping brandy and water , and exercising his conversational talents in a mixture of slang and jokeyism , addressed to two or three men of his own rank of life , and seemingly his companions . 
His brisk eye soon discovered me , and he swaggered to the carriage door with that ineffable assurance of manner which was so peculiarly his own . 
`` Ah , ah , Mr. Pelham , '' said he , `` going to Newmarket , I suppose ? 
answered Thornton . 
I spare my reader an account of my miscellaneous reflections on Thornton , Dawton , Vincent , politics , Glanville , and Ellen , and will land him , without further delay , at Chester Park . 
We had not advanced many paces before they overtook us ; the foremost of them turned round as he passed me , and pulling up his horse abruptly , discovered to my dismayed view , the features of Mr. Thornton . 
Nothing abashed by the slightness of my bow , or the grave stares of my lordly companions , who never forgot the dignity of their birth , in spite of the vulgarity of their tastes , Thornton instantly and familiarly accosted me . 
`` Oh , '' said the imperturbable Thornton , `` it does not signify ; he wo n't be affronted at my lagging a little . 
However , '' -LRB- and here he caught my eye , which was assuming a sternness that perhaps little pleased him , -RRB- `` however , as it gets late , and my mare is none of the best , I 'll wish you good morning . '' 
With these words Thornton put spurs to his horse and trotted off . 
Well -- to return to my rascal -- would you believe , that when we got to Newmarket , he left me at the inn , in order , he said , to fetch the money ; and after having kept me in a cold room , with a smoky chimney , for more than an hour , without making his appearance , I sallied out into the town , and found Mr. Dawson quietly seated in a hell with that scoundrel Thornton , whom I did not conceive , till then , he was acquainted with . 
It seems that he was to win , at hazard , sufficient to pay his wager . 
You may fancy my anger , and the consequent increase to it , when he rose from the table , approached me , expressed his sorrow , d -- d his ill luck , and informed me that he could not pay me for three months . 
`` By Heaven , '' said he , in a low tone , `` it 's that dog Dawson , and his worthy coadjutor , Tom Thornton . '' 
Thornton pressed the invitation still closer , and even offered , sotto voce , to send Dawson on before , should the baronet object to his company . 
After so tart a reply , Thornton thought it useless to say more ; he remounted , and with a silent and swaggering nod of familiarity , soon rode away with his companion . 
`` I am sorry , '' said I , as we were slowly proceeding , `` that you rejected Thornton 's offer . '' 
`` Why , to say truth , '' answered Tyrrell , `` I have so very bad an opinion of him , that I was almost afraid to trust myself in his company on so dreary a road . 
I have nearly -LRB- and he knows it -RRB- , to the amount of two thousand pounds about me ; for I was very fortunate in my betting-book today . '' 
answered Tyrrell , `` but I won this sum , which is 1,800 l. , of a country squire from Norfolk , who said he did not know when he should see me again , and insisted on paying me on the spot : ` faith I was not nice in the matter . 
Thornton was standing by at the time , and I did not half like the turn of his eye when he saw me put it up . 
I called to mind the disreputable character of that man , and the still more daring and hardened one of his companion Thornton . 
These reflections -LRB- associated with a name I did not dare breathe even to myself , although I could not suppress a suspicion which accounted at once for the pursuit , and even for the deed , -RRB- made me waver in , and almost renounce my former condemnation of Thornton and his friend : and by the time I reached the white gate and dwarfish avenue which led to Dawson 's house , I resolved , at all events , to halt at the solitary mansion , and mark the effect my information would cause . 
`` My good Sir , '' I replied , still keeping my situation , `` I come on urgent business , either to Mr. Thornton or Mr. Dawson ; and you had better , therefore , if the delay is not very inconvenient , defer the honour you offer me , till I have delivered my message . '' 
`` Master , and ` Squire Thornton are not returned from Newmarket , and we can not let any one in till they come home , '' replied the voice , in a tone somewhat mollified by my rational remonstrance ; and while I was deliberating what rejoinder to make , a rough , red head , like Liston 's , in a farce , poked itself cautiously out under cover of the blunderbuss , and seemed to reconnoitre my horse and myself . 
`` Sir , '' said the female , `` my husband and Mr. Thornton are not returned ; and we have been so much alarmed of late , by an attack on the house , that I can not admit any one till their return . '' 
Tom ! 
We rang , and after a brief pause , Thornton himself opened the door to us . 
He looked pale and agitated . 
he said directly -- `` we are only just returned from the spot . '' 
`` Accompany us , Mr. Thornton , '' said I , sternly ; and fixing my eye upon him -- `` Certainly , '' was his immediate answer , without testifying any confusion -- `` I will fetch my hat . '' 
He went into the house for a moment . 
said I to Thornton . 
answered Thornton . 
Thornton was absent some minutes ; when he re-appeared , Dawson was following him . 
I made no answer , but looked narrowly at Dawson ; he was evidently , as Thornton said , greatly intoxicated : his eyes swam , and his feet staggered as he approached us ; yet , through all the natural effects of drunkenness , he seemed nervous and frightened . 
`` Why , '' said I , apart to Thornton , while all the rest were crowding fearfully round the corpse -- `` why did you not take the body within ? '' 
`` And how came it , '' I rejoined , eyeing him searchingly , `` that you and your friend had not returned home when I called there , although you had both long since passed me on the road , and I had never overtaken you ? '' 
Thornton , without any hesitation , replied -- `` because , during the violence of the shower , we cut across the fields to an old shed , which we recollected , and we remained there till the rain had ceased . '' 
I looked carefully among the fern and long grass , to see if I could discover any other token of the murderer : Thornton assisted me . 
I was just going to cry out , when Thornton whispered -- `` Hush ! 
`` My eyes are dim , '' said I , in a low tone to Thornton , `` I can not trace the initials . '' 
`` But I can , '' replied he , in the same whispered key , but with a savage exultation , which made my heart stand still -- `` they are G. D. , R. G. ; they are the initials of Gertrude Douglas and Reginald Glanville . '' 
Thornton and Dawson underwent a long and rigorous examination ; but no single tittle of evidence against them appeared : they were consequently dismissed . 
The only suspicious circumstance against them , was their delay on the road ; but the cause given , the same as Thornton had at first assigned to me , was probable and natural . 
The shed was indicated , and , as if to confirm Thornton 's account , a glove belonging to that person was found there . 
Then came over my mind the savage and exulting eye of Thornton , when it read the damning record of Glanville 's guilt ; and in spite of my horror at the crime of my former friend , I trembled for his safety : nor was I satisfied with myself at my prevarication as a witness . 
Had Glanville been the murderer , at all events he could not have been the robber ; it was true that in the death scuffle , which in all probability took place , the money might have fallen from the person of the deceased , either among the long grass which grew rankly and luxuriantly around , or in the sullen and slimy pool , close to which the murder was perpetrated ; it was also possible , that Thornton , knowing the deceased had so large a sum about him , and not being aware that the circumstance had been communicated to me or any one else , might not have been able -LRB- when he and Dawson first went to the spot , -RRB- to resist so great a temptation . 
Of Thornton , I had neither seen nor heard aught since my departure from Lord Chester 's ; that reprieve was , however , shortly to expire . 
It so happened , that I had that morning taken the miniature I had found in the fatal field , from the secret place in which I usually kept it , in order more closely to examine it , lest any more convincing proof of its owner , than the initials and Thornton 's interpretation , might be discovered by a minuter investigation . 
`` From Thornton , '' said I. `` And has he told you more ? '' 
cried Glanville , as if gasping for breath -- the `` history -- the dreadful -- '' `` Not a word , '' said I , hastily ; `` he was with me when I found the picture , and he explained the initials . '' 
By this undue reputation , and the levelling habit of gaming , to which he was addicted , he was raised , in certain societies , much above his proper rank : need I say that this man was Thornton . 
I was but slightly acquainted with him ; however , he accosted me cordially , and endeavoured to draw me into conversation . 
rejoined Thornton , eyeing me with an air of impertinent familiarity -- ` I see you have not forgiven him ; he played you but a shabby trick at -- ; seduced your mistress , or something of that sort ; he told me all about it : pray , how is the poor girl now ? ' 
I rose hastily , looked at Thornton with a glance , which might have abashed a man less shameless and callous than himself , and left the room . 
`` That night , as I tossed restless and feverish on my bed of thorns , I saw how useful Thornton might be to me in the prosecution of the scheme I had entered into ; and the next morning I sought him out , and purchased -LRB- no very difficult matter -RRB- both his secrecy and his assistance . 
I employed Thornton , who still maintained his intimacy with Tyrrell , to decoy him more and more to the gambling house ; and as the unequal chances of the public table were not rapid enough in their termination to consummate the ruin even of an impetuous and vehement gamester , like Tyrrell , so soon as my impatience desired , Thornton took every opportunity of engaging him in private play , and accelerating my object by the unlawful arts of which he was master . 
My enemy was every day approaching the farthest verge of ruin ; near relations he had none , all his distant ones he had disobliged ; all his friends , and even his acquaintance he had fatigued by his impornity , or disgusted by his conduct . 
In the whole world there seemed not a being who would stretch forth a helping hand to save him from the total and pennyless beggary to which he was hopelessly advancing . 
Out of the wrecks of his former property , and the generosity of former friends , whatever he had already wrung , had been immediately staked at the gaming house , and as immediately lost . 
`` Perhaps this would not so soon have been the case , if Thornton had not artfully fed and sustained his expectations . 
`` Meanwhile , I had taken the name and disguise under favour of which you met me at Paris , and Thornton had introduced me to Tyrrell as a young Englishman of great wealth , and still greater inexperience . 
The gambler grasped eagerly at an acquaintance , which Thornton readily persuaded him he could turn to such account ; and I had thus every facility of marking , day by day , how my plot thickened , and my vengeance hastened to its triumph . 
`` I was embarrassed in my scheme by two circumstances : first , Thornton 's acquaintance with you ; and , secondly , Tyrrell 's receipt -LRB- some time afterwards -RRB- of a very unexpected sum of two hundred pounds , in return for renouncing all further and possible claim on the purchasers of his estate . 
However , I had become restlessly impatient for the termination to this prefatory part of my revenge , and , accordingly , Thornton and myself arranged that Tyrrell should be persuaded by the former to risk all , even to his very last farthing , in a private game with me . 
I set Thornton 's inquiries at work . 
`` I know not to this day , though I have often questioned him , what interest Thornton had in deceiving me by this tale ; for my own part , I believe that he himself was deceived ; It seems -LRB- from subsequent investigation -RRB- that this was really the case . 
certain it is -LRB- for I inquired -RRB- that a person , very much answering to Tyrrell 's description , had perished in the state Thornton mentioned , and this might , therefore , in all probability , have misled him . 
`` I left Paris , and returned , through Normandy , to England -LRB- where I remained some weeks -RRB- ; there we again met : but I think we did not meet till I had been persecuted by the insolence and importunity of Thornton . 
Thornton , like all persons of his stamp , has a low pride , which I was constantly offending . 
He had mixed with men , more than my equals in rank , on a familiar footing , and he could ill brook the hauteur with which my disgust at his character absolutely constrained me to treat him . 
It is true , that the profuseness of my liberality was such , that the mean wretch stomached affronts for which he was so largely paid ; but with the cunning and malicious spite natural to him , he knew well how to repay them in kind . 
While he assisted , he affected to ridicule my revenge ; and though he soon saw that he durst not , for his very life , breathe a syllable openly against Gertrude , or her memory , yet he contrived , by general remarks , and covert insinuations , to gall me to the very quick , and in the very tenderest point . 
`` No sooner had I returned to England , than I found him here , awaiting my arrival . 
It appears by your evidence on a subsequent event , that these men were Thornton and his friend Dawson ; at the time , they passed too rapidly , and I was too much occupied in my own dark thoughts , to observe them : still I kept up to you and Tyrrell , sometimes catching the outline of your figures through the moon-light , at others , -LRB- with the acute sense of anxiety -RRB- , only just distinguishing the clang of your horse 's hoofs on the stony ground . 
A stronger evidence yet remained , and it was reserved for Thornton to indicate it -- at this moment my life is in his hands . 
Shortly after my return to town , he forced his way into my room , shut the door -- bolted it -- and the moment we were alone , said , with a savage and fiendish grin of exultation and defiance , -- ` Sir Reginald Glanville , you have many a time and oft insulted me with your pride , and more with your gifts : now it is my time to insult and triumph over you -- know that one word of mine could sentence you to the gibbet . ' 
` Couple , ' said Thornton , coldly , as he replaced the letter in his pocket -- ` couple these words with the evidence already against you , and I would not buy your life at a farthing 's value . ' 
`` How Thornton came by this paper , so important to my safety , I know not : but when he read it , I was startled by the danger it brought upon me : one glance sufficed to shew me that I was utterly at the mercy of the villain who stood before me : he saw and enjoyed my struggles . 
It seemed to me , therefore , but a very poor exertion of philosophy , to conquer my feelings of humiliation at Thornton 's insolence and triumph , and to console myself with the reflection , that a few months must rid me alike of his exactions and my life . 
`` But , of late , Thornton 's persecutions and demands , have risen to such a height , that I have been scarcely able to restrain my indignation and controul myself into compliance . 
There I shall screen myself from Thornton 's pursuit , and the danger which it entails upon me ; and there , unknown and undisturbed , I shall await the termination of my disease . 
`` It is Thornton , '' said Glanville , calmly . 
`` I told them not to admit him , and he is forcing his way . '' 
Scarcely had Sir Reginald said this , before Thornton burst abruptly into the room . 
`` Mr. Thornton , '' he said , in a calm voice , although he was trembling in his extreme passion , from head to foot , `` I am not now prepared to submit to your insolence and intrusion . 
`` No , no , my fine fellow , '' said Thornton , with a coarse chuckle ; `` you have as much wit as three folks , two fools , and a madman ; but you wo n't do me , for all that . 
exclaimed Thornton , who seemed stung to the quick by Glanville 's contemptuous coldness , `` you shall not leave England without my leave . 
He would have sprung towards Thornton , but I seized and arrested him . 
I read , in the malignant and incensed countenance of his persecutor , all the danger to which a single imprudence would have exposed him , and I trembled for his safety . 
I whispered , as I forced him again to his seat , `` Leave me alone to settle with this man , and I will endeavour to free you from him . '' 
I did not tarry for his answer ; but turning to Thornton , said to him coolly but civilly : `` Sir Reginald Glanville has acquainted me with the nature of your very extraordinary demands upon him . 
cried Thornton , `` that 's what I call talking like a sensible man ; and though I am not fond of speaking to a third person , when the principal is present , yet as you have always been very civil to me , I have no objection to treating with you . 
`` Do as you please , Sir Reginald , '' answered Thornton , grinning , `` do as you please . 
cried Glanville ; and his generous nature lashing him into fresh rage , he broke from my grasp , and moved menacingly to Thornton . 
said Thornton . 
repeated Thornton ; `` a mere drop -- a child 's toy -- why , you are playing with me , Sir Reginald -- nay , I am a reasonable man , and will abate a trifle or so of my just claims , but you must not take advantage of my good nature . 
Seeing that I did not stir , Thornton rose , with an oath against pride ; and swaggering towards the table , took up a tumbler of water , which happened accidentally to be there : close by it was the picture of the ill-fated Gertrude . 
Thornton kept a firm gripe of the picture . 
said he tauntingly : `` was there ever such work about a poor -- -LRB- using a word too coarse for repetition -RRB- before ? '' 
The word had scarcely passed his lips , when he was stretched at his full length upon the ground . 
Presently I heard Thornton re-ascend the stairs : he opened the door , and entered but one pace . 
`` Sir Reginald Glanville , '' he said , `` I thank you heartily . 
Good day , Sir Reginald -- good day , Mr. Pelham ; '' and so saying , he shut the door , and rapidly descending the stairs , was out of the house in an instant . 
Remember that if Thornton has really gone to inform against me , the officers of justice would arrest me long before I reached Calais ; or even if I did elude their pursuit so far , I should be as much in their power in France as in England : but to tell you the truth , I do not think Thornton will inform . 
Money , to a temper like his , is a stronger temptation than revenge ; and , before he has been three minutes in the air , he will perceive the folly of losing the golden harvest he may yet make of me for the sake of a momentary passion . 
In the meanwhile he will , in all probability , pay me another visit , and I will make a compromise with his demands . '' 
Despite of my fears , I could not but see the justice of these observations , the more especially as a still stronger argument than any urged by Glanville , forced itself on my mind ; this was my internal conviction , that Thornton himself was guilty of the murder of Tyrrell , and that , therefore , he would , for his own sake , avoid the new and particularizing scrutiny into that dreadful event , which his accusation of Glanville would necessarily occasion . 
I did so , under a promise , that he would admit me again in the evening ; for notwithstanding my persuasion that Thornton would not put his threats into execution , I could not conquer a latent foreboding of dread and evil . 
I returned home , perplexed by a thousand contradictory thoughts upon the scene I had just witnessed ; the more I reflected , the more I regretted the fatality of the circumstances , that had tempted Glanville to accede to Thornton 's demand ; true it was , that Thornton 's self-regard might be deemed a sufficient guarantee for his concealment of such extortionate transactions : moreover , it was difficult to say , when the formidable array of appearances against Glanville was considered , whether any other line of conduct than that which he had adopted , could , with any safety , have been pursued . 
His feelings too , with regard to the unfortunate Gertrude , I could fully enter into , and sympathize with : but , in spite of all these considerations , it was with an inexpressible aversion that I contemplated the idea of that tacit confession of guilt , which his compliance with Thornton 's exactions so unhappily implied ; it was , therefore , a thought of some satisfaction , that my rash and hasty advice , of a still further concession to those extortions , had not been acceded to . 
My present intention was , in the event of Glanville 's persevering to reject my offer of accompanying him , to remain in England , for the purpose of sifting the murder , nor did I despair of accomplishing this most desirable end , through the means of Dawson ; for there was but little doubt in my own mind that Thornton and himself were the murderers , and I hoped that address or intimidation might win a confession from Dawson , although it might probably be unavailing with his hardened and crafty associate . 
Mr. Thornton had returned to the house accompanied by three men of very suspicious appearance . 
`` In short , Sir , '' said the man , lowering his voice to a whisper , `` I knew one of them by sight ; he was Mr. S. , the Bowstreet officer ; with these men , Sir Reginald left the house , merely saying , in his usual quiet manner , that he did not know when he should return . '' 
He spoke with great feeling on the subject for which I was summoned -- owned to me , that Thornton 's statement was very clear and forcible -- trusted that my evidence would contradict an account which he was very loth to believe ; and then proceeded to the question . 
Farther evidence , Thornton had already offered to adduce . 
I interrupted the magistrate ; I demanded that Dawson should be produced : `` I have already , '' said he , `` inquired of Thornton respecting that person , whose testimony is of evident importance ; he tells me , that Dawson has left the country , and can give me no clue to his address . '' 
Hear me : I have been , next to Thornton , the chief witness against the prisoner , and when I swear to you , that , in spite of all appearances , I most solemnly believe in his innocence , you may rely on my assurance , that there are circumstances in his favour , which have not yet been considered , but which I will pledge myself hereafter to adduce . '' 
I dwelt forcibly upon the circumstance of Tyrrell 's having mentioned to me , that Thornton was aware of the large sum he had on his person , and of the strange disappearance of that sum , when his body was examined in the fatal field . 
After noting how impossible it was that Glanville could have stolen this money ; I insisted strongly on the distressed circumstances -- the dissolute habits , and the hardened character of Thornton -- I recalled to the mind of the magistrate , the singularity of Thornton 's absence from home when I called there , and the doubtful nature of his excuse : much more I said , but all equally in vain . 
I remembered the accomplished character of Mr. Job Jonson , and the circumstance of my having seen him in company with Thornton . 
Now , although it was not very likely that Thornton should have made Mr. Jonson his confidant , in any of those affairs which it was so essentially his advantage to confine exclusively to himself ; yet the acuteness and penetration visible in the character of the worthy Job , might not have lain so fallow during his companionship with Thornton , but that it might have made some discoveries which would considerably assist me in my researches ; besides , as it is literally true in the systematized roguery of London , that `` birds of a feather flock together , '' it was by no means unlikely that the honest Job might be honoured with the friendship of Mr. Dawson , as well as the company of Mr. Thornton ; in which case I looked forward with greater confidence to the detection of the notable pair . 
`` Pray , then , '' said I , `` to come at once to the point , how long have you been acquainted with Mr. Thomas Thornton ? '' 
A short time ago , I was in great distress , and he and Thornton had , God knows how ! 
about two thousand pounds between them ; but I could not worm a stiver out of Dawson -- that gripe-all , Thornton , got it all from him . '' 
Drawing my chair close to Jonson 's , fixing my eye upon his countenance , and throwing into my own the most open , yet earnest expression I could summon , I briefly proceeded to sketch Glanville 's situation -LRB- only concealing his name -RRB- , and Thornton 's charges . 
I mentioned my own suspicions of the accuser , and my desire of discovering Dawson , whom Thornton appeared to me artfully to secrete . 
As for Thornton , I 'm afraid we sha n't make much out of him , for he 's an old offender , whose conscience is as hard as a brick-bat ; but , of Dawson , I hope better things . 
`` I have thought well over the matter , your honour , and I believe we can manage to trounce the rascals -- for I agree with you , that there is not a doubt that Thornton and Dawson are the real criminals ; but the affair , Sir , is one of the greatest difficulty and importance -- nay , of the greatest personal danger . 
`` I then lost sight of him , till between two and three months ago , when he returned to town , and attended our meetings with Tom Thornton , who had been chosen a member of the club some months before . 
He kept his horses , and sported the set to champagne and venison ; in short , there would have been no end to his extravagance , had not Thornton sucked him like a leech . 
Will you believe , Sir , that the rascal told me to go and be d -- d , and Thornton said amen ? 
No sooner could I walk about , than I relieved all my necessities . 
He is but a fool who starves , with all London before him . 
At that time , and indeed ever since Dawson re-appeared , we were often in the habit of discussing the notorious murder which then engrossed public attention ; and as Dawson and Thornton had been witnesses on the inquest , we frequently referred to them respecting it . 
Dawson always turned pale , and avoided the subject ; Thornton , on the contrary , brazened it out with his usual impudence . 
`` We must not suffer this , '' said Thornton , whose hardy effrontery enabled him to lord it over the jolly boys , as if he were their dimber-damber ; `` his ravings and humdurgeon will unman all our youngsters . '' 
And so , under this pretence , Thornton had the unhappy man conveyed away to a secret asylum , known only to the chiefs of the gang , and appropriated to the reception of persons who , from the same weakness as Dawson , were likely to endanger others , or themselves . 
Last night , after your obliging confidence , I repaired to the meeting ; Thornton was there , and very much out of humour . 
When our messmates dropped off , and we were alone , at one corner of the room , I began talking to him carelessly about his accusation of your friend , whom I have since learnt is Sir Reginald Glanville -- an old friend of mine too ; aye , you may look , Sir , but I can stake my life to having picked his pocket one night at the Opera . 
Thornton was greatly surprised at my early intelligence of a fact , hitherto kept so profound a secret ; however , I explained it away by a boast of my skill in acquiring information : and he then incautiously let out , that he was exceedingly vexed with himself for the charge he had made against the prisoner , and very uneasy at the urgent inquiries set on foot for Dawson . 
`` For fear of his escape , Thornton had had him closely confined to one of the most secret rooms in the house . 
His solitude and the darkness of the place , combined with his remorse , had worked upon a mind , never too strong , almost to insanity . 
The old hag , who is the Hecate -LRB- you see , Sir , I have had a classical education -RRB- of the place , was very loth to admit me to him , for Thornton had bullied her into a great fear of the consequences of disobeying his instructions ; but she did not dare to resist my orders . 
Accordingly I had a long interview with the unfortunate man ; he firmly believes that Thornton intends to murder him ; and says , that if he could escape from his dungeon , he would surrender himself up to the first magistrate he could find . 
`` I told him that an innocent man had been apprehended for the crime of which I knew he and Thornton were guilty ; and then taking upon myself the office of a preacher , I exhorted him to atone , as far as possible , for his past crime , by a full and faithful confession ; that would deliver the innocent , and punish the guilty . 
I held out to him the hope that this confession might perhaps serve the purpose of king 's evidence , and obtain him a pardon for his crime ; and I promised to use my utmost zeal and diligence to promote his escape from his present den . 
Well , Sir , it is now more than three years ago since I first met one Tom Thornton ; it was at a boxing match . 
Tom was chosen chairman , at a sort of club of the farmers and yeomen ; and being a lively , amusing fellow , and accustomed to the company of gentlemen , was a great favourite with all of us . 
`` Well , Sir , at Newmarket races , this Spring meeting , Thornton and I were on the look out . 
I expressed my vexation to Thornton , who told me not to mind it , but to tell Sir John that I would pay him if he came to the town ; and that he was quite sure we could win enough , by his certain game at hazard , to pay off my debt . 
He was so very urgent , that I allowed myself to be persuaded ; though Thornton has since told me , that his only motive was , to prevent Sir John 's going to the Marquess of Chester 's -LRB- where he was invited -RRB- with my lord 's party ; and so , to have an opportunity of accomplishing the crime he then meditated . 
`` Accordingly , as Thornton desired , I asked Sir John Tyrrell to come with me to Newmarket . 
I left him , joined Thornton , and went to the gambling-house . 
Here we were engaged in Thornton 's sure game , when Sir John entered . 
When he was gone , I told Thornton how hurt and indignant I was at Sir John 's treatment . 
`` When Thornton saw I was so moved , he took me out of the room , and carried me to an inn . 
Here he ordered dinner , and several bottles of wine . 
I never could bear much drink : he knew this , and artfully plied me with wine till I scarcely knew what I did or said . 
He then talked much of our destitute situation -- affected to put himself out of the question -- said he was a single man , and could easily make shift upon a potatoe -- but that I was encumbered with a wife and child , whom I could not suffer to starve . 
However , the slang terms in which Thornton disguised the greatness and danger of the offence , very much diminished both in my eyes -- so at length I consented . 
I only observed that he was wrapped in a cloak -- but Thornton said , directly we had passed him , `` I know that man well -- he has been following Tyrrell all day -- and though he attempts to screen himself , I have penetrated his disguise ; he is Tyrrell 's mortal enemy . '' 
``` Should the worst come to the worst , '' added Thornton , -LRB- words which I did not at that moment understand -RRB- we can make him bear the blame . 
''' `` When we had got some way further , we came up to Tyrrell and a gentleman , whom , to our great dismay , we found that Sir John had joined -- the gentleman 's horse had met with an accident , and Thornton dismounted to offer his assistance . 
``` Not at all , ' replied Thornton ; ` for I managed to give the horse a sly poke with my knife ; and if I know any thing of Sir John Tyrrell , he is much too impatient a spark to crawl along , a snail 's pace , with any companion , especially with this heavy shower coming on . ' 
`` Upon this , Thornton cursed me for a faint-hearted fellow , and said that the cloud would effectually hide the moon -- or , if not -- he added -- ` I know how to silence a prating tongue . ' 
At these words I was greatly alarmed , and said , that if he meditated murder as well as robbery , I would have nothing further to do with it . 
Thornton laughed , and told me not to be a fool . 
I wished to go home -- but Thornton would not let me , and as I was always in the habit of yielding , I stood with him , though very reluctantly , under the tree . 
``` It is he -- it is he , ' cried Thornton , with a savage tone of exultation -- ` and alone ! 
-- Be ready -- we must make a rush -- I will be the one to bid him to deliver -- you hold your tongue . 
Just as Tyrrell approached , Thornton dashed forward , and cried , in a feigned voice -- ` Stand , on your peril ! ' 
`` He attempted to push by us -- but Thornton seized him by the arm -- there was a stout struggle , in which , as yet , I had no share -- at last , Tyrrell got loose from Thornton , and I seized him -- he set spurs to his horse , which was a very spirited and strong animal -- it reared upwards , and very nearly brought me and my horse to the ground -- at that instant , Thornton struck the unfortunate man a violent blow across the head with the butt end of his heavy whip -- Sir John 's hat had fallen before in the struggle , and the blow was so stunning that it felled him upon the spot . 
Thornton dismounted , and made me do the same -- ` There is no time to lose , ' said he ; ` let us drag him from the roadside and rifle him . ' 
We accordingly carried him -LRB- he was still senseless -RRB- to the side of the pond before mentioned -- while we were searching for the money Thornton spoke of , the storm ceased , and the moon broke out -- we were detained some moments by the accident of Tyrrell 's having transferred his pocket-book from the pocket Thornton had seen him put it in on the race ground to an inner one . 
`` We had just discovered , and seized the pocket - book , when Sir John awoke from his swoon , and his eyes opened upon Thornton , who was still bending over him , and looking at the contents of the book to see that all was right ; the moonlight left Tyrrell in no doubt as to our persons ; and struggling hard to get up , he cried , ` I know you ! 
` We will see that , Sir John , ' said Thornton , setting his knee upon Tyrrell 's chest , and nailing him down . 
While thus employed , he told me to feel in his coat-pocket for a case-knife . 
``` It is too late , ' said Thornton , deliberately , and taking the knife from my hands , he plunged it into Sir John 's side , and as the blade was too short to reach the vitals , Thornton drew it backwards and forwards to widen the wound . 
Tyrrell was a strong man , and still continued to struggle and call out for mercy -- Thornton drew out the knife -- Tyrrell seized it by the blade , and his fingers were cut through before Thornton could snatch it from his grasp ; the wretched gentleman then saw all hope was over ; he uttered one loud , sharp , cry of despair . 
Thornton put one hand to his mouth , and with the other gashed his throat from ear to ear . 
``` You have done for him , and for us now , ' said I , as Thornton slowly rose from the body . 
` No , ' replied he , ` look , he still moves ; ' and sure enough he did , but it was in the last agony . 
However , Thornton , to make all sure , plunged the knife again into his body ; the blade came into contact with a bone , and snapped in two ; so great was the violence of the blow , that instead of remaining in the flesh , the broken piece fell upon the ground among the long fern and grass . 
`` While we were employed in searching for it : Thornton , whose ears were much sharper than mine , caught the sound of a horse . 
mount , ' he cried ; ` and let us be off . ' 
I wished to go home , as it was so near at hand ; but Thornton insisted on making to an old shed , about a quarter of a mile across the fields ; thither , therefore , we went . '' 
`` Stop , '' said I , `` what did Thornton do with the remaining part of the case-knife ? 
did he throw it away , or carry it with him ? '' 
`` He took it with him , '' answered Dawson , `` for his name was engraved on a silver plate , on the handle ; and , he was therefore afraid of throwing it into the pond , as I advised , lest at any time it should be discovered . 
Thornton and I entered , and he dug a hole with the broken blade of the knife , and buried it , covering up the hole again with the earth . '' 
`` After we had done this , Thornton told me to hold the horses , and said he would go alone , to spy whether we might return ; accordingly he did so , and brought back word , in about half an hour , that he had crept cautiously along till in sight of the place , and then throwing himself down on his face by the ridge of a bank , had observed a man , -LRB- whom he was sure was the person with a cloak we had passed , and whom , he said , was Sir Reginald Glanville , -RRB- mount his horse on the very spot of the murder , and ride off , while another person -LRB- Mr. Pelham -RRB- , appeared , and also discovered the fatal place . 
We stole up stairs by the back-way -- Thornton 's linen and hands were stained with blood . 
The former he took off , locked up carefully , and burnt the first opportunity ; the latter he washed ; and that the water might not lead to detection , drank it . 
However , as Mr. Pelham had left a message that we were to go to the pond , Thornton insisted upon our repairing there to avoid suspicion . '' 
Dawson then proceeded to say , that , on their return , as he was still exceedingly nervous , Thornton insisted on his going to bed . 
When our party from Lord Chester 's came to the house , Thornton went into Dawson 's room , and made him swallow a large tumbler of brandy ; A common practice with thieves , who fear the weak nerves of their accomplices . 
this intoxicated him so as to make him less sensible to his dangerous situation . 
Afterwards , when the picture was found , which circumstance Thornton communicated to him , along with that of the threatening letter sent by Glanville to the deceased , which was discovered in Tyrrell 's pocket-book , Dawson recovered courage ; and justice being entirely thrown on a wrong scent , he managed to pass his examination without suspicion . 
He then went to town with Thornton , and constantly attended `` the club '' to which Jonson had before introduced him ; at first , among his new comrades , and while the novel flush of the money , he had so fearfully acquired , lasted , he partially succeeded in stifling his remorse . 
His share of the money , too , the greater part of which Thornton had bullied out of him , was gone . 
He fell , as Job had said , into despondency and gloom , and often spoke to Thornton so forcibly of his remorse , and so earnestly of his gnawing and restless desire to appease his mind , by surrendering himself to justice , that the fears of that villain grew , at length , so thoroughly alarmed , as to procure his removal to his present abode . 
It was here that his real punishment commenced ; closely confined to his apartment , at the remotest corner of the house , his solitude was never broken but by the short and hurried visits of his female gaoler , and -LRB- worse even than loneliness -RRB- , the occasional invasions of Thornton . 
With a malignity , doubly fiendish from its inutility , he forbade Dawson the only indulgence he craved -- a light , during the dark hours ; and not only insulted him for his cowardice , but even added to his terrors , by threats of effectually silencing them . 
He started up in delight at the very thought ; in truth , besides his remorse , and that inward and impelling voice which , in all the annals of murder , seems to urge the criminal onwards to the last expiation of his guilt -- besides these , there mingled in his mind a sentiment of bitter , yet cowardly , vengeance , against his inhuman accomplice ; and perhaps he found consolation for his own fate , in the hope of wreaking upon Thornton 's head somewhat of the tortures that ruffian had inflicted upon him . 
`` You see , '' said I , `` that , however satisfactory this recital has been , it contains no secondary or innate proofs to confirm it ; the only evidence with which it could furnish us , would be the remnant of the broken knife , engraved with Thornton 's name ; but you have heard from Dawson 's account , how impossible it would be in an extensive wood , for any to discover the spot but himself . 
When I told him that we were resolved , if possible , to effect his escape , nothing could exceed his transport and gratitude ; this was , indeed , expressed in so mean and servile a manner , mixed with so many petty threats of vengeance against Thornton , that I could scarcely conceal my disgust . 
And then the passionate feelings of her sex overcoming every other consideration , she seized me by the hand , and said -- `` Oh , Mr. Pelham , for mercy 's sake , tell me is he in the power of that villain Thornton ? 
That unhappy man had just concluded his narration , when an officer entered , and whispered the magistrate that Thornton was in waiting . 
Thornton entered with his usual easy and swaggering air of effrontery ; but no sooner did he set his eyes upon Dawson , than a deadly and withering change passed over his countenance . 
Dawson could not bridle the cowardly petulance of his spite -- `` They know all , Thornton ! '' 
I suppose poor Dawson , as well as the rascal Thornton , will be hung before you receive this -- they deserve it richly -- it is such fellows who disgrace the profession . 
Thornton died as he had lived -- the reprobate and the ruffian . 
`` Pooh , '' said he , in his quaint brutality , to the worthy clergyman , who attended his last moments with more zeal than success ; `` Pooh , what 's the difference between gospel and go -- spell ? 
