The servant that he had at this time , was an Irishman , whose name was Teague Oregan . 
A strange idea came into the head of Captain Farrago about this time ; for , by the bye , I had forgot to mention that having being chosen captain of a company of militia in the neighbourhood , he had gone by the name of Captain ever since ; for the rule is , once a captain , and always a captain ; but , as I was observing , the idea had come into his head , to saddle an old horse that he had , and ride about the world a little , with his man Teague at his heels , to see how things were going on here and there , and to observe human nature . 
The jockeys seeing him advance , with Teague by his side , whom they took for his groom , conceived him to be some person who had brought his horse to enter for the purse . 
Coming up and accosting him , said they , You seem to be for the races , Sir ; and have a horse to enter . 
As he was speaking , he was jostled by some one in the croud , and thrown from his horse ; and had it not been for Teague , who was at hand , and helped him on again , he would have suffered damage . 
As it was , he received a contusion in his head , of which he complained much ; and having left the race-ground , and coming to a small cottage , he stopped a little , to alight and dress the wound . 
An old woman who was there , thought they ought to take a little of his water , and see how it was with him ; but the Captain having no faith in telling disorders by the urine , thought proper to send for a surgeon who was hard by , to examine the bruise , and apply bandages . 
Teague hearing so much about elections , and serving the government , took it into his head , that he could be a legislator himself . 
The thing was not displeasing to the people , who seemed to favour his pretensions ; owing , in some degree , to there being several of his countrymen among the croud ; but more especially to the fluctuation of the popular mind , and a disposition to what is new and ignoble . 
The people were tenacious of their choice , and insisted on giving Teague their suffrages ; and by the frown upon their brows , seemed to indicate resentment at what had been said ; as indirectly charging them with want of judgment ; or calling in question their privilege to do what they thought proper . 
The prolocutor of the people gave him to understand that his surmises were useless , for the people had determined on the choice , and Teague they would have for a representative . 
Finding it answered no end to expostulate with the multitude , he requested to speak a word with Teague by himself . 
Stepping aside , he said to him , composing his voice , and addressing him in a soft manner ; Teague , you are quite wrong in this matter they have put into your head . 
You have nothing but your character , Teague , in a new country to depend upon . 
Teague was moved chiefly with the last part of the address , and consented to give up the object . 
Teague acknowledged that he had changed his mind , and was willing to remain in a private station . 
When we see therefore , a Teague Oregan lifted up , the philosopher will reflect , that it is to balance some purse-proud fellow , equally as ignorant , that comes down from the sphere of the aristocratic interest . 
It happened , as the Captain was riding this day , and Teague trotting after him , he saw a large owl , that had been shot by some body , and was placed in the crotch of a tree , about the height of a man 's head from the ground , for those that passed by to look at . 
The Captain being struck with it , as somewhat larger than such birds usually are , desired Teague to reach it to him ; and tying it to the hinder part of his saddle , rode along . 
But Teague can neither write nor read . 
He can sing a song , or whistle an Irish tune ; but is totally illiterate in all things else . 
I question much if he could tell you how many new moons there are in the year ; or any the most common thing that you could ask him . 
He is a long-legged fellow , it is true ; and might be of service in clambering over rocks , or going to the shores of rivers , to gather curiosities . 
Sad or no sad , said the other , it is the case ; and if you will let Teague go , I will engage him a membership . 
Teague was a good deal incensed at this refusal of his master , and insisted that he would be a philosopher . 
Teague insisted that he had a right to make the best of his fortune : and as there was a door open to his advancement , he did not see why he might not make use of it . 
Teague , said he , I have a regard for you , and would wish to see you do well . 
Teague consenting , they stepped aside ; and the Captain addressed him in the following manner : Teague , said he , do you know what you are about ? 
Teague had long ago given up all thoughts of philosophy , and would not for the world have any more to do with it ; and therefore , without bidding the philosopher adieu , they pursued their route as usual . 
But it does not appear to me now to be the highest thing that a man could wish , since even a common Teague Oregan , trotting on the high way , has been solicited to take a seat . 
It was Teague , who had got to bed to the girl of the house . 
For as they would neither let him go to Congress , nor be a philosopher , he must be doing something . 
The girl not being apprized , or not chusing his embraces , made a great outcry and lamentation . 
Teague , whose natural parts were not bad , and presence of mind considerable , instantly took the resolution to throw the matter on the clergyman . 
But the landlady , who in the mean time was come up , and had heard what Teague had said , was enraged , could supply speech for them both . 
The clergyman averred his innocence , and that it was that red-headed gentleman himself , meaning Teague , who was in the room first , and had been guilty of the outrage . 
Teague was beginning to make the sign of the cross , and to put himself into an attitude of swearing , when the Captain thinking it of no consequence who was the person , put an end to the matter , by ordering Teague to bed , and himself bidding the company good night . 
The Captain gave him the comfort of assuring him that he might make himself easy ; for be the matter as it might , he would take care that Teague should assume it , and bear the blame . 
Accordingly , when the clergyman had retired , calling Teague before him , he began in this manner : Teague , said he , from what I know of your disposition , I have no more doubt than I have of my existence , that it was yourself who made that uproar with the girl at the tavern where we lodged ; though I could not but give you credit for your presence of mind in throwing it upon the clergyman . 
Teague said he did not care much ; but thought the priest ought to pay a little smart money ; for it was a thankless matter to do these things for nothing . 
Teague was satisfied , and ready to acknowledge whatever was demanded of him . 
Accordingly having come before the presbytery on the day appointed for the trial . 
Teague made confession of the truth ; viz.That being in the kitchen with the girl , and observing her to be a good looking hussy -- But suppose we give the speech in his own dialect . 
Master prastes , said he , I persave you are all prastes of the gosple , and can prach as asily as I can take a chaw of tobacco . 
Teague , in the mean time , having an opportunity of ingratiating himself with the clergymen , by rubing down their horses , and other menial services . 
For it is the national character of the aboriginal Irish , to give fair words ; and Teague was not deficient in this address . 
What with master Prasting , and giving a great deal of what is called Blarney , he insinuated himself into their good graces ; and by affecting , now and then , to be seen at prayers by himself , and to have a sorrowful countenance , he induced them to believe that he was in the first stage of conviction , and likely to become a pious man . 
The Presbytery suspecting the Captain to be a carnal man , and regardless of the ministry , gave little heed to what he said , and seemed disposed to take Teague upon trials . 
The Captain finding the case to stand thus , and that in spite of all he could do , he was likely to lose his servant , took his usual method of addressing the hopes and fears of Teague himself . 
Taking him aside , he began , with all possible art , to impress such fears and apprehensions , as the nature of the case suggested . 
Teague , said he , do you know what you are about ? 
How will you like that , Teague . 
The representation had the desired effect upon Teague , and he thought no more of the matter . 
THE overtures made by Teague , to be admitted to the ministry , and the simplicity of the ecclesiastics in listening to his pretensions , made a great noise through the neighbourhood ; in as much as the young man laboured under a want of education , and was not qualified by theological reading . 
On this principle , Teague might have done very well as a preacher . 
The Captain struck with the rudeness , withdrew also , and , calling Teague from the kitchen , mounted his horse and set off . 
The next morning shortly after he had got out of bed , and had just come down stairs at his lodging , and was buttoning the knees of his breeches , a light airy looking young man , with much bowing and civility , entered the hall of the public house , and enquiring if this was not Captain Farrago to whom he had the honour to address himself , delivered him a paper . 
HAVING thus dismissed the secondary man , he called in his servant Teague , and accosted him as follows : Teague , said he , you have heretofore discovered an ambition to be employed in some way that would advance your reputation . 
At this proposition , Teague looked wild , and made apology that he was not much used to boxing . 
As the Captain spoke , Teague seemed to feel in himself , every wound which was described , the ball hitting him , now in one part , and now in another . 
At the last words , it seemed to pass through his head , and he was half dead , in imagination . 
Making a shift to express himself , he gave the Captain to understand , that he could by no means undertake the office . 
THE Captain apprehending that he might not yet drop his designs upon the Irishman , but be tampering with him out of doors , should he come across him , sent for Teague . 
For he well knew , that should the Indian treaty man get the first word of him , the idea of making him a king , would turn his head , and it would be impossible to prevent his going with him . 
Teague coming in , said the Captain to him ; Teague , I have discovered in you , for some time past , a great spirit of ambition , which is , doubtless , commendable in a young person ; and I have checked it only in cases where there was real danger , or apparent mischief . 
I have seen among the prints of Hogarth , some such expression of countenance as that of Teague at this instant ; who , as soon as he could speak , but with a double brogue on his tongue , began to intimate his disinclination to the traffic . 
The hair of his scalp itself , in the mean time had risen in opposition to it . 
Teague thought the caution good , and resolving to abide by it , retired to the kitchen . 
The maid at this time , happening to want a log of wood , requested Teague to cut it for her . 
Taking the ax accordingly , and going out , he was busy chopping , with his head down ; while , in the mean time , the Indian treaty-man had returned with one in Indian dress , who was the chief of the Killinoos , or at least passed for such ; and whom he brought as having some recruiting talents , and might prevail with Teague to elope , and join the company . 
Teague hearing a man speak , and lifting up his head , saw the leggins on the one , and the Indian dress on the other ; and with a kind of involuntary effort , threw the ax directly from him at the Killinoo . 
It missed him but about an inch , and fell behind . 
Teague , in the mean time , raising a shout of desperation , was fixed on the spot , and his locomotive faculties suspended ; so that he could neither retreat nor advance , but stood still , like one enchained or enchanted for a moment ; the king of the Killinoos , in the mean time , drawing his tomahawk , and preparing for battle . 
Under cover of this address of the Captain , Teague had retired to the kitchen , and ensconced himself behind the rampart of the maid . 
THE Captain was certainly to be commended in declining to countenance the imposition of making Teague a Kickapoo chief . 
Had he been disposed to adventure in a contraband trade of this kind , he might have undertaken it as a principal , and not as furnishing an assistant only . 
He could have passed Teague for a chief , and himself for an interpreter . 
He might pretend to have conducted this prince from a very distant nation , and that he had been several moons in travelling , and wanted , the Lord knows how much , goods for his people , that otherwise would come to war . 
I should like to have seen Teague in an Indian dress , come to treat with the commissioners . 
It would be necessary for him only to talk Irish , which he might pass for the Shawanee , or other language . 
Teague hearing of it took it into his head that he must be in love too ; and counterfeiting a demure look , and absence of mind , and walking by himself , and living on spare diet , as he had heard the young man that was in love did , he wished to have it understood that his mind was under the dominion of the same passion . 
This being observed , was represented to the Captain ; who being at a loss to know what was the matter , called Teague , and began to interrogate him . 
The bog-trotter , with some seeming reluctance , acknowledged that it was love . 
That dear cratur , said the Irishman , that has the black hair , and the fair face , and her name is Mrs. Sally , in the house there . 
She is a fair as the wool or the snow , and gives me the cholic , and the heart-burn , every time I look at her fair eyes ; God save her soul from damnation , but I love her as I do the very food that I ate , or the cloathes that I ware upon my back . 
It appeared to be Miss Sally , a very pretty girl , the eldest daughter of the landlady ; who , by the bye , I mean the ladlady , was a widow , and had two daughters and a niece with her ; the handsomest of whom was this Miss Sally , with whom Teague had become enamoured . 
The Captain well knew , that being in the pride and heat of youth , he would consider Teague 's advances to his sister as an insult on the family , and chastise him accordingly . 
Accordingly , one morning when the officer was in his chamber , Teague made his approach ; and composing his woe begone countenance as well as he could , and explaining the cause of it , solicited his interest with the lady . 
The advances of Teague became the subject of conversation in the family , and of much mirth and laughter . 
Interrogating Teague , who had come in company , and whom they took to be a common servant to both , or at least acquainted with the affairs of either , what was the meaning of that bird , or what bird it was , that the gentleman had at his breast ? 
Teague knew as little about it as they did ; but unwilling to be thought ignorant , took upon him to inform them . 
It is , said he , a goose ; and the maining is , that the shentleman would ate a goose , if your anours would get one roasted this avening , for his anour to ate with the Captain , who is my master ; for we have ate nothing all day long , and a roasted goose with a shoulder of mutton , a pace of poark , and bafe and cabbage , and the like , would be a very good slake for a fasting stomach . 
But sending out to her neighbours , she made shift to collect a couple of ducks , which Teague acknowledged would be a very good substitute . 
RISING early next morning , the Captain proceeded , with his man Teague , on his journey , and having breakfasted at an inn , where nothing material happened , we shall pass it over , and come as far down in the day as eleven o'clock ; tho ' , by the bye , it might have been more correct to have said up in the day , because the sun rises until twelve o'clock , and then descends : But waving this nicety , we shall go on to relate what actually took place . 
But , in the mean time , roused a little from his thought , he had presence of mind to recollect the danger in which he was about to be involved afresh with his man Teague ; whom , now looking round , he saw to be about forty yards behind him . 
Besides , if Teague did not leap after him he would be left exposed in the lane to the populace , who might solicit him to be their representative . 
To turn directly back would appear indecorous , and unless he could drive Teague on before him , which was not customary , and to which he might not , all at once submit , his station would of course be the rear , where he might be picked up as a straggler , and sent to some public body . 
In this quandary of thought , looking up , he saw the breakers just a-head ; that is , the people met for the purpose of electing , and that it was now impossible to avoid them . 
Depending , therefore , on his own address , to make the best of circumstances , he suffered himself to be carried along towards them , keeping , in the mean time , an eye upon Teague , who was the cause of his concern . 
Meeting accidentally with a Scotch gentleman on the ground , whom he knew , he communicated to him the delicacy of his situation , and the apprehensions he had on the part of Teague . 
Teague in the mean time thinking he had another chance of being a great man , had been busy , but to no purpose ; for the people gave their votes to the man of the two kegs . 
IT was about three o'clock in the afternoon that the Captain came to an inn , where unhorseing and unsaddling , Teague took the steed , and the master went to sleep on a sopha in the passage . 
The fact was ; a disagreement had taken place between Teague and the hostler at the inn , about their skill respectively in rubbing down and currying horses . 
Teague had made use of a single grab of hay , which he held with both hands , and impressed the horse , rubbing him from side to side , and up and down with all his might . 
The other with a wisp in each hand , rubbed ; the right hand passing to the left , while the left hand passed to the right , in a transverse or diagonal direction . 
Teague maintained his opinion , and way of working with a good deal of obstinacy , until at last it came to blows . 
The first stroke was given by Teague , who hit the hostler on the left haunch with his foot , when he was stooping down to shew Teague how to rub the fetlock . 
The hostler recovering , and seizing Teague by the breast , pushed him back with a retrograde motion , until he was brought up by a cheek of the stable door . 
Resting against this , Teague made a sally , and impelled his antagonist several yards back , who finding at length behind him the support of a standing trough where the waggoners used to feed , recovered his position , and elanced Teague some distance from the place of projection . 
But Teague still keeping hold of the collar of his adversary , had brought him along with him , and both were now on the ground struggling for victory . 
But Teague turning on his belly , and drawing up his knees , was making an effort to raise himself to his feet . 
The other in the mean time , partly by the same means , and partly by retaining hold of the Irishman , was in the attitude of rising with him . 
Teague gave his account of the matter ; adding , if he had had a shillelah , he would have been after making him know that the paple in dis country , could curry a horse , or a cow , or a shape , as well as any Englishman in de world , though he have been hastler to a great lord , or de king himself , at his own stable where he has his harse . 
Teague , said the Captain , this may be true ; but it was unbecoming a philosopher to attempt to establish this by blows . 
But if he did undervalue an American born , yet he ought to have considered that Teague , though not born in Britain , was born near it , and therefore might considerably approach the same skill in any handy-craft work . 
I SHALL pass over the circumstances of the Captain 's dining , and Teague , reconciled with the hostler , taking his mess in the kitchen ; and go on to what befel afterwards , when having saddled the horse , they set out on their further perigrination . 
Towards evening , when the shadows of the trees began to be very long , the Captain bidding Teague trot along side , addressed him in the following words : -- Teague , said he , it is true I am none of your knight-errants , who used to ride about the world relieving fair damsels , and killing giants , and lying out in woods , and forests , without a house , or even tentcloth over their heads , to protect them from the night air . 
Teague thought it would be an easier matter to write down the chapter in the journal , than ly under the trees to beget it . 
Fait , and I tink , said Teague , it would be better to be in a good house , with a shoulder of mutton to ate before we go to slape , than to have our own shoulders tarn by the bears , or brused by lying under great oaks . 
The Captain had made the proposition merely to divert himself with Teague , and so did not insist upon it . 
The old lady in the mean time was in the kitchen , and the first thing she observed was Teague , reclining in an angle of the chimney fast asleep . 
Considering him inattentive to his master 's horse which had been sent to the stable , she desired a servant to give him a jog , and wake him . 
Teague , awaking , saw the old lady , and bespoke her . 
She used to say to me when I was aslape , Teague are you awake ; and when I was awake , Teague are you aslape , dear honey . 
Returning to the parlour she continued her conversation with the Captain ; but her mind running upon Teague she could not avoid introducing his name , with a view to learn some particulars of his history . 
This is a civil young man , said she , that came with you , and of a conversation above ordinary persons . 
The Captain being an observer of the passions of the mind , as they express themselves in the eye and aspect , saw that Teague had made some impression on the affections of this goodly old maiden gentlewoman : Nor was he displeased with it ; for his first alarm was , that she would have fastened on himself ; but her passion taking this course , would be less troublesome . 
Framing his answers therefore to her questions , with a view to favour what had so fortunately commenced , he gave her to understand , that , though in the disguise of a servant , Teague was no inconsiderable personage ; that he had been a member of Congress one or two years ; though , by the bye , this was stretching the matter a little , as he had only had it in his power to be one . 
But if it is allowable to strain a point at all , it is in the recommendation of one who stands well enough already ; for not being taken on the recommendation , there is no deception ; and it is but civility to make one more pleased with their choice , than they already are . 
No sooner had he withdrawn , but the old lady sent her compliments to Teague , to take a seat in the parlour ; where sitting down to a roasted duck , just brought in , a few slices of gammon on a plate , a piece of veal , and a couple of roasted potatoes , he was desired to partake : the old lady casting amourous looks at him , in the mean time . 
I give only a sketch of the courtship that took place , for a great deal was said ; and it was near midnight before the lovers could prevail upon themselves to part ; when Teague was lighted to his bed , and had as good as that in which the Captain slept , which was a new thing to him ; being accustomed to pig in with hostlers and servants , at the places where they lodged . 
The Captain was up early in the morning , and astonished not to find Teague stiring , but enquiring of the servants where Teague slept , he was shewn up a pair of stairs , which he ascended , thinking he had one or two more to ascend before he reached the garret . 
But what was his astonishment , when he was shewn into a room on the second floor , where he found Teague snoring on a feather bed with curtains . 
Waking him , Teague ; said he , this goes beyond all your former impudence ; to crawl up out of the kitchen , and get into a feather bed . 
Please your anour , said Teague , to ring a bell , and call up a sharvant , to bring boots , and slippers ; for I am to be married dis marning . 
Composing himself , he dissembled , and spoke as follows : Teague , said he , will you that are a young man , and have great prospects before you , consign yourself to the arms of an old woman . 
Sir Teague Ulysses was the only one that had the sense to keep clear of her music , and avoid her . 
Do you think , Teague , that I have read books for nothing ? 
Teague by this time was out of bed , and had dressed himself in his overalls and short coat , and was ready for a march . 
Indeed he wished to escape as soon as possible ; and descending the stairs , going to the stable , and saddling the horse , they both set out , without taking leave . 
It was in this manner Eneas quitted Dido , and got a ship-board , before she was awake ; and the only difference was , that Teague had left no little Iulus in the hall , to put her in mind of the father . 
TRAVELLING along , the Captain could not but observe to Teague , the injudicious choice he was about to make , even had the woman not been a necromancer . 
Teague seemed still to have some hankering after the supper of ducks , and the feather bed ; but as they proceeded , the recollection became more faint , for distance and time , is the cure of all passions . 
With this , taking him a little further to the one side , where his horse was tied , he took out a bottle from his saddle-bags , with a little whisky in it , which Teague had put there , and gave him a dram . 
This had a good effect , and raised his spirits , and he seemed now ready to enter the lists with his antagonist . 
The other , in the mean time , had gone in , and was ready , when called upon , to hold forth . 
The clergy were so pleased with the Captain , that they gave him an invitation to go home with them to an elder 's house , just by ; but recollecting the trouble he had with Teague on another occasion , and the danger of being drawn into a like predicament , should he fall into conversation with the clergymen , and take it into his head to preach , he declined the invitation , and hastened to get his horse , and having Teague along side , proceeded on his journey . 
The fourth day , when he had proposed to set out to perambulate this modern Babylon , and called for Teague to bring him his boots , there was no Teague there . 
The hostler being called , with whom he used to sleep , informed , that he had disappeared the day before . 
Thinking it probable the bog-trotter , having still a hankering after an appointment might offer himself on that occasion , he set out to the place where the people were convened , to see if he could discover Teague amongst the candidates . 
He could see nothing of him ; and though he made enquiry , he could hear no account . 
But the circumstance of the election drawing his attention for some time , he forgot Teague . 
The candidates were all remarkably pot-bellied ; and waddled in their gait . 
Though there is one good arising from it , that there is no danger of my Teague here . 
Na faith , said Mr. M`Donald , the Scotch gentleman who had been present at the embarrassment of the Captain , on the occasion of the former election ; and having , a few days before , come to the city , and observing the Captain in the crowd , had come up to accost him , just as he was uttering these last words to himself : Na faith , said he , there is na danger of Teague here , unless he had his scores o ' shares in the bank ; and was in league with the brokers , and had a brick house at his hurdies , or a ship or twa on the stocks . 
REFLECTING with himself , that Teague was inclined to women , and that he might have gone to some of those houses , which are not in the best repute with the religious part of the community , the Captain thought it might not be amiss to make enquiry . 
Teague O'Regan , said the old lady ! 
I would have you know , sir , that no Teague O'Regans come here ; we keep a house for the first gentlemen ; not for waiters , or understrappers , or any of the common sorts . 
The lady , being now appeased on the score of Teague , was in a good humour , and renewed her hints to the Captain , with respect to the young woman . 
RETURNING to his lodging , he could not help reflecting by the way , that probably poor Teague , mortified by repeated disappointments , in going to Congress , being suffered to preach , or be a member of the Philosophical Society ; and what might afflict him still more , the not marrying the rich hostess , who had made him overtures , might , in his despair of ever coming forward in any respectable capacity in life , have suspended himself from a beam , or plunged into the river , and have put an end to his existence ; which , should it be the case , being in some measure accessary to this catastrophe of the bog-trotter , by dissuading from these several pretensions , he could not acquit himself of guilt ; at all events , he would feel great pain and sorrow . 
But in the evening , meditating thus , mention being made by some of the lodgers , of going to hear the annual oration , delivered before the Philosophical Society , by a member ; it struck his mind , that possibly Teague , falling in with some of this body , had been induced by them to take a seat , and might be present on that occasion . 
But the Captain , in the mean time , had examined , with great attention , the whole audience ; but could not discover Teague . 
Departing , therefore , with the rest , his thoughts recurred to his first idea , viz . 
that the unfortunate creature had committed suicide . 
Drawing up , therefore , an advertisement , he sent it to a daily paper ; but , though it appeared next morning , and the day elapsed , there was no word of Teague . 
AS I have said , the day passed over , and there was no word of Teague . 
The Captain readily consented ; and it struck him , that , as this was a new fangled doctrine , and the preacher had made a great noise ; and as it was a doctrine that , conscious of a good deal of fornication , would naturally please Teague , it was not impossible but the Irishman might have become a disciple of this reformist , and be at his conventicle . 
Just as with himself at present in the case of Teague ; if he had got his hands on the bog-trotter , he could not help being very angry , and would be disposed to punish him with great severity ; but after some time he knew his passion would subside , and he would forget his delinquencies . 
Teague in this manner running in his head , as the people , after some epilogue of prayer and benediction , being dismissed , were retiring , he got up , and raising his voice , begged the audience to detain a little . 
-- Good people , said he , if any of you should come across a young man , a servant of mine , of the name of Teague O'Regan , I shall thank you to send me notice to the Indian Queen , where I lodge . 
There was one that had a little of the brogue of Teague upon his tongue , but nothing of his physiognomy ; others had a good deal of his manner ; but there was none that came absolutely up to the physic of his person . 
However , being here , the Captain tho ' t it not amiss to listen a while to the debates upon the carpet . 
IT was about three or four o'clock in the afternoon , that some one , who had read the advertisement respecting Teague , came to the Captain , and informed him , that a person , answering the description , had been lately employed to teach Greek in the University . 
The Captain thought so too ; and taking it for granted that it was Teague , expressed his surprise that they had not examined him , before he was admitted ; or at least had such proof by letters as would have had ascertained his being qualified . 
The principal observed , that as to examination they had no one at hand to examine , as there were none of the trustees or professors of other branches in the university understood Greek ; as for himself he did not , having not studied it in early life , and for a series of years , having giving himself to politics and mathematics ; so that unless they could send out for a Roman Catholic priest , or a Scotch clergyman , there was none to examine . 
Conning a speech of this sort in his own mind , with a view to divert the principal , and amuse himself with Teague , he entered the chamber of the professor ; who sat in an elbow chair with Thucidydes before him . 
What was the surprise of the Captain to find that it was not Teague . 
In fact , it was a person not wholly unlike him , especially in a hinge of the brogue which he betrayed in his discourse ; for though the professor was really a man of education , having been early sent to St. Omer 's , where he had studied , being intended for a priest , and understood not only the Greek , and Latin , but spoke French ; yet in the pronunciation of the English tongue , he had that prolongation of the sound of a word , and articulation of the vowel O , which constitutes what is vulgarly called the brogue , as being the pronunciation of the native Irish ; who being a depressed people , are most of them poor , and wear a kind of mean shoe , which they call a brogue . 
OUR Chevalier was now at his wits end ; not being able to conceive of any other place of amusement , in which Teague might be found ; when all at once it came into his head , -LRB- led to it , perhaps , from the reference , in his late conversation , to the Indian tribes , -RRB- that probably he might have fallen in with the Indian treaty-man , and have been prevailed upon to personate a chief . 
Chiefs , or no chiefs , said the Capain , I am not saying , nor care ; but only wish to know if you have been instituting any treaty with my Teague , who has been absent some days . 
Having delivered their tickets , and being admitted to the box , it struck the Captain to cast his eye upon the pit and galleries , and observe if he could any way descry the physiognomy of Teague . 
As before , when with the same view he surveyed the members of Congress , he could discover several that a good deal resembled him ; but yet not the identical person . 
The curtain being now drawn the play began . 
Nothing material occured during the performance of the tragedy , save that when the witches came in , there was one in her cap and broomstick whose features a good deal resembled the Irishman 's , and who , had she not been an old woman and a witch , might have passed for Teague . 
The Captain was struck with the resemblance of feature , and long frame of the bog-trotter , covered with a short gown and petticoat ; and borrowing a glass from one that sat in the box with him , endeavoured to reconnoitre more perfectly , and could have sworn that it was the mother , or sister of Teague , that had just came from Ireland , and joined the company . 
The tragedy being ended , the farce began to be acted , and who should come forward in the character of Darby , but the long sought for Teague . 
The fact was , he had before appeared in the tragedy , in the character of an over-grown red-headed witch . 
It was more natural for him to appear in the character of Darby his own countryman ; for he spake with the brogue naturally , and not by imitation . 
As the natural squal of a pig is superior to an imitation of it ; so it was allowed by the audiance , that Teague exceeded the pseudo Irishman that usually performed this part . 
For though amongst the dramatis personæ of learned bodies , there are Tony Lumpkins , and Darby M`Faddins in abundance , yet there ought to be none ; and Teague had better be on the stage than in such capacities , since he must be some where . 
But to leave me without notice , after all my civilities to him , is ungrateful , and deserves all that I can say bad concerning him . 
I shall give myself no farther trouble on this head ; but let him take his course . 
I must endeavour to find another servant who can supply his place . 
THE foregoing had been the reflections of the Captain during the exhibition of the farce . 
Going out , who should strike his optics , but Teague . 
The manager in the most unbecoming manner , without either citation , examination , trial , conviction , or judgment , but laying aside all forms of law , had instituted an original process of himself , and laying hold of a horse-whip , had applied this implement to the back and shoulders of Teague , and as the Irishman made an effort of resistance at the first onset , the manager had been under the necessity , by turning the but end of the whip , to knock him down , which he did by a stroke above the left eye-brow , which not only bereft him of senses for the present , but a discolouration of the eye for some days , and a scar probably his whole life after . 
This being settled , and learning from the Irishman in what manner he had been inveigled , and drawn away by the manager , to go upon the stage ; and that it was only because Teague had made advances to a woman that was a whore already , that the manager had made such an attack upon his person , he wished to punish him , if it should appear to be within the province of the law to do it . 
Taking Teague with him , he set out to consult this gentleman . 
Counsellor Grab was in his office , amongst large shelves of books , or shelves of large books ; not , as the Latins say , Co-opertus , aut obrutus , sed comitatus libris ; that is , In the midst of his books . 
He had on a pair of spectacles , not so much on account of age , as to make the client believe that he laboured under a premature want of sight , from much reading ; or , because a pair of lenses , magnifying the organs of vision , gives the appearance of a larger eye , which has a good effect on the person consulting , impressing the idea of a broader view of things that are before it . 
Entering , the Captain addressed himself to the counsellor , and gave him the outlines of the injury done to Teague ; The counsellor , in the mean time , suspending his reading in a large book , which he had before him , printed in Saxon letter , and raising his head , until the glasses of his spectacles were brought to bear upon the physiognomy of the Captain . 
The Captain having finished his account , referred him to Teague , the subject of the battery , for a a more particular detail of the circumstances . 
Teague was glad of the opportunity of speaking before a learned lawyer , and was beginning to give a relation of the whole affair ; but the Captain stopped him , bidding him wait until the lawyer should himself request him to begin . 
The lawyer was silent : after having reconnoitered with his glasses , one while the Captain , another while Teague , he dropped his optics , and began to read again . 
The Captain , thinking he had not been sufficiently understood , recommenced the narration , and gave an account of what he himself had suffered from the inveigling and detaining his servant , and the visible injury which the servant himself had sustained . 
If you could only get him sentenced to take a kick or two from my foot , or Teague 's , before we leave the city , I should be satisfied . 
Let the terms mean what they will , said the Captain , it all comes to this at last -- There is no getting at the manager , under a year , or two year 's race for it ; before which time , Teague will have forgot the abuse he has received , and I my trouble in running after a strayed Irishman , through this city ; and , therefore , it may be as well to give the matter up , and sit down with the loss . 
The Captain , without bidding him kiss his backside , beckoned to Teague to follow him , and withdrew from the chamber . 
Having retired ; Teague , said the Captain , this thing of law has been well said to be a bottomless pit . 
Teague was contented to put up with the drubbing , and have no more said about it . 
THE Captain had consoled himself with the idea that Teague was now cured of his folly , and would no more be disposed to entertain notions of ambition , and unreasonable projects . 
He was disappointed in his hope ; for that very evening , the Irishman washing down the recollection of his woes with some exhilerating drink , and though not intoxicated , but enlivened only , he came to the Captain : Said he , Dear master , what would your anour think , if a poor sharvant should turn lawyer ; and get a half joe when a customer comes to consult him in the morning ? 
For the idea was to be imposed upon Teague , that this was an office , or as it were an inn of court , or chamber of the Inner Temple ; and that the several flagellations , and grindings , and poundings , were so many lessons , and lectures , to qualify him for the practice of the law . 
It happened , fortunately , that the keeper of the work-house was well qualified for the task ; for , in early years , he had been put an apprentice to an attorney , and had some opportunity of attending courts , and hearing the names of books to which the advocates referred in their pleadings ; but having a turn for extravagance , and a dissolute manner of life , he had come to poverty , and , through various scenes , to jail . 
Accordingly , when Teague was introduced , which was that very afternoon , he had , at his command , the names of the abridgers , and reporters , and commentators of the law , and the technical terms in the commencement and process of a suit ; so that , when the key was turned , and , after having stript him of the linen doublet that was upon him , he began to give him the first application of the cowskin , he told him this was reading Wood 's Institutes ; and when , after this , he was sentenced to an hour or two 's hard labour , at grinding plaister of Paris , this was called Coke upon Littleton ; and when the employment was varied , pounding hemp , or picking oakum , it was called Hawkin 's Pleas of the crown , or Foster , or 4th Blackstone , & c . 
He was a good master ; and when I was a fool , and wanted to be a member of Congress , and prache , and be a phalosophar , he told me , Teague , you are a fool ; and what they would do wid me there ; how they would bate me , and ate me , and take de skin aff my back , and make a cow or a shape od me ; and now I am worse than a cow or a shape , or a horse in de tame ; for I am cut , and curried , black and blue ; till my flesh is raw , and a cholic in my belly , wid fasting ; and all to stoody dis law . 
Understanding that a court was then sitting , he resolved to take the opportunity of the interval of Teague 's purgation , in the workhouse , to amuse himself with the pleading of the advocates . 
Accordingly , repairing to the court house , he took his place amongst the crowd , and listened to what was going forward . 
THE Captain had now leisure to reflect on the predicament in which he left Teague ; and thinking he might have had what was sufficient to cure him of his folly , or at least restrain it , thought of making a visit to the house of employment , or sending to liberate the valet . 
The state of politics at this time , and the prospect of Teague 's advancement , we shall leave to the Third Volume of this work . 
We hasten to the sequel of the adventures of the Captain , and Teague his servant . 
Governed by these observations , the Captain proposed to take Teague to the levee the next evening . 
He has been what we call a wag , and wished to amuse himself with the extravagance of introducing Teague as a candidate for public offices , and taking him to the Levee . 
The jacket and trowsers , or overalls , as some call them , that he had upon him , though of rough materials , being a coarse tow linen , that had not had but one boiling before it was made up , were not even whole ; what is more , not clean , not that he had voluntarily on some great occasion , for a public or private calamity , as was the manner of the Jews , rent his garments , and put on sackcloth , and strewed ashes on his head ; but what came to the same thing , by lying by the fire side at night , and wrestling in the day with the hostler , and servants at the tavern , he was reduced to the same raggedness and ash-powdered state . 
Arriving at the door , the Captain , entering first , and Teague just behind , he addressed the President : Said he , may it please your Excellency , here is a young man , whom I take the liberty to introduce , as a candidate for state employment . 
But after some time recollecting himself , bowed to the Captain , and to Teague , and signified that doubtless proper notice should be taken of the merits of the gentleman , and provision made for him . 
Teague in the mean time advancing with his mouth open , and both his arms stretched out , was about to harrangue in his own dialect , as plase your honor , & c . 
But an aid of the President , or some one concerned in the ceremonial of the occasion , touching the Captain and Teague , and conversing with them towards the door , gave them to understand , that they might depart for the present ; and that there was no manner of question , but that his Excellency had taken a note of the matter , and when any appointment was about to take place , the gentleman would be remembered . 
I observe , from some scraps , in the public papers , that the holding a levee by the President of the United States , has given offence , to men of severe , and extreme republican ideas : For , as at the reformation from the Roman Catholic superstition , the puritans , and other thorough paced reformists , were offended with the Church of England , for retaining some particulars of the ancient ceremonies ; such as the ring in marriage ; the cross in baptism ; the surplice ; kneeling at the sacrament ; bowing at the name of Jesus , & c. so here ; the more rigid revolutionists from monarchy , object to any vestige of its customs , and would lay aside totally all resemblance of it . 
Fromthe reception at the levee , which the Captain thought favorable , he began to entertain more confidence in the advancement of Teague ; and , under this impression , thought it now adviseable to begin to take some pains with his bodily appearance , and by the next interview , produce him to the best advantage . 
To conduct this by system , the first thing was to heave him down , as it were , and scrape off his barnacles . 
This was done by ordering into an apartment of the kitchen , at the Indian Queen , a tub of warm water . 
His overalls being stript off , and putting his feet and legs in this , with hickory ashes , and a pint of soft soap , the hostler was occupied an hour or two , in the necessary lotion and friction , until the upper skin began to come off , and the natural complexion of his flesh appear . 
After this being stript altogether , his whole body underwent the same operation , the Captain standing by , and ordering his joints to be stretched , in the manner of the Turks in their baths . 
The Frenchman , eyeing Teague , thought with himself , that he was but a rough subject to work upon ; nevertheless , concealing his sentiment , as the manner of the nation is polite and compliant , he replied . 
Monsieur Capitaine , said he , ver great sensible of de honneur , que vous me faites , de attitude of dourself be so ver natural , dat prove de high degree que vous acquis in de art dat I tashe ; and trow un grand lustre , on de talents dat I possede . 
The Captain now thinking proper to withdraw , left Teague to his lessons . 
I stop here to observe , that the opening the mouth when an exertion of the mind or body is required , is a habit very common with uninformed men , and not at all peculiar to Teague : you will observe , that men , who have not been long , or at least much in the habit of writing , when they put pen to paper , open the mouth , and protrude the tongue , moving it , as the pen turns to the right hand or to the left ; or draws the stroke long or short ; and , you will see a cordwainer of good skill in his trade , from mere habit , and not any defect of art , put out his tongue , and move it , as if it could guide his hand , when he is parcing nicely the margin of the soal of a shoe or boot : Having made this observation in justice to the bog-trotter , I return to my narration . 
La troisieme principe ; de tird lessong , said Monsieur Douperie , is to lift de foot ; you lift de foot , Monsieur Patrick , le pied droit , de right foot furs ; here Teague raised the left , O ! 
Here Teague lifted the rightfoot , thinking of the former lesson , and willing to please the dancing master by giving him that foot which had seemed to be so much in request with him . 
Here Teague , as he had not pleased his instructor by what he had done last , viz . 
lifting the right foot , now lifted the left , being always at cross purposes , as it were , or still too far forward , or too far back in his motions , to correspond with the directions given . 
diable , diable , said the Frenchman , raising his voice , and almost vociferating ; quoi ferai je ? 
Teague standing opposite the master , and lifting that foot which was on the same side with that of the instructor made the same blunder as before , and lifted the left foot . 
Now , Monsieur Patrick , said he , lift de foot dat hab de red ribbon : Teague obeyed with exactness and promptitude , and raised that foot . 
Teague hit the direction , and raised the foot with the blue rag upon it . 
I forgive de compensation of de lessong , Teague , in the mean time , having understood that chastisement was usually given at school , for inattention or flowness in acquiring the elements , and not understanding broken French , conceived , that the dancing master was expressing his resentment , and about to inflict punishment ; and therefore endeavoured to excuse himself by a speech on his part . 
Teague , said he , you have now got , in literal terms your rough coat off ; that is , you have some better dress , than what you used to wear ; you have also had some lessons , in what manner , to stand , or move your feet , as there may be occasion ; it now remains to instruct you with regard to habits of delicacy , in some matters . 
By the bye Teague , I have my fears of you in this last particular , for you know you have not been always careful in trotting with me to observe a delicacy in this respect ; and , it would be the devil in hell , if in a company of ladies , an indiscretion of this kind should escape you . 
Teague , that after all the pains I am taking with you , you will spoil the broth , by some out-breakings , of your old tricks , and habits in some way or other . 
Accordingly an evening , after this , the Captain taking him to a beer house , and occupying a bench , called for a mug of ale , and bade Teague attend to the conversations that were going forward . 
Teague had listened attentively , and , contrary to the injunction of the Captain , with his mouth open . 
The Captain thought this also above the reach of Teague , and obliged him to be silent . 
By some it was contended that an Indian was a good creature , simple and inoffensive , like a young child ; that you might put your finger in his mouth , and he would not bite ; that by speaking softly and kindly , and giving him victuals and drink , and leggins , and breech-clouts , and blankets , you might do what you please with him ; that when you gave him ammunition and fire arms , he would go out and kill turkies , and shoot down squirrels , and bring you in a deer , now and then ; that there was no such thing as an Indian stealing a horse , or burning a house , or taking a scalp , unless you had first stolen his horse , or burnt his house , or made a catch at his scalp ; that when you made a treaty with these people , they had such a love of justice , such a sense of honor , such a perfect command of themselves , and their young men , that , there was no danger of their departing from the treaty . 
Such were the arguments on each side of this question ; when the Captain looking at Teague , and observing that he was anxious to advance his opinion , assenting with a bow , or inclination of his head , he seemed to signify that he might speak . 
Such were the ideas which the circumstance of Teague in a carriage with a fine lady , naturally produced in his mind . 
I hope better things of you Teague , and that you will conduct yourself on the principles of honour and humanity ; you will resign this flirt , for such I deem her , who -- he was going to say , who could be tickled with you ; but having a point to carry with Teague , he chose to use soft words ; who , continued he , could so readily change one lover for another . 
What security have you of the affections of one of so versatile a mind , Mr. Williams is a merchant , and has cloths in his store : he will give you the pattern of a pair of breeches to decline your pretensions , and resign the jade to him who had first cast his eye upon her . 
Teague , much more from this last part of the argument , than from the fine sentiments of delicacy , & c. which were laid down in the first of it , consented to relinquish the dulcinea ; and so when Mr. Williams called at the hour proposed , an order for the making of a pair of breeches was given and the bog-trotter pledged his word , that he neither would laugh , talk , walk , or ogle with her any more . 
Enquiring the residence of the gentleman , and being informed , the Captain ever prompt to do offices of humanity , immediately calling for Teague , who was in the bar room with the waiter getting him to write a love letter for him , set out on a visit to lawyer Hardicknute , and being admitted to his chamber , where he lay languishing in bed , accosted him , giving him to understand that he knew the cause of his complaint , not by feeling his pulse as did the physician of Demetrius , who was in love with Stratonice : nor by any power of conjuring ; but simply by hearing it from a client who was interested in his recovery ; and that in consequence of this information he had come to relieve him , and had brought the identical Major O'Regan along with him , who for half a johannes was ready to resign all pretensions to the lady . 
Despairing from the late experiment of doing any thing with mad people , the Captain waved any trouble with the doctor , but looking sternly at Teague ; this will never do , said he : I can not reconcile it to myself to be in the most distant way accessary to so much mischief ; and as , from a deference to the judgment of others , and to your importunity , I have suffered myself to be the means of introducing you to this sphere , I must take care to repair the injury as far as may be in my power , or at least prevent any increase of it as much as possible . 
Leave it to me to say such things to the young lady , as under pretence of recommending her lover , will be effectual to disgust her , and remove her attachment , Mr. Mutchkin impressed with the sincerity and good sense of the Captain , consented to be guided by him in this business , and accordingly going home was silent to the mother and daughter with respect to the conversation he had with the old gentleman , who was considered as the uncle of Teague : and the following day when the Captain waited upon the family , and was introduced by Mr. Mutchkin , who retiring under pretence of business , left him alone with the daughter and mother to make use of the means he had proposed . 
Nor indeed had Teague himself any objections to be a soldier , but that his constitution had not given him that courage which is necessary to enable a man to face an enemy with fire arms : He could cudgel at a fair , or the like , where he was supported by others that would take the weight of the battle off his hands ; but except to wrestle at carnish hug , as he calls it , with a hostler , now and then , I never knew him fond of any contention whatsoever . 
I understand that he has been fortunate enough to render himself agreeable to the young lady your daughter , and I congratulate myself on the prospect of having so accomplished a young woman to be the wife of my domestic . 
He has been always faithful to me in the offices in which I employed him , such as brushing boots , and rubbing down my horse . 
Itis true his manners were a little rude at first , but I have taken a good deal of pains to teach him some of the outlines of a decent behaviour , such as to blow his nose with a handkerchief , and keep from breaking wind in company , a practice to which he was a good deal addicted at his first setting out ; and though he takes long strides as you may see , from wearing brogues , and bog-trotting ; yet in the course of time , this and other habits may be broke , by being in good company . 
Though but ten days since he was heaved down , and curried and brushed up for a gentleman , he has learned to chew food , without greasing his chin and cheeks . 
If he should fall into the hands of a lady of taste , as he is like to do , she may improve him still more . 
It will be of particular advantage to him to get a woman that can write and read ; as I understand Miss Mutchkin can do very well ; for as he can neither read nor write himself , it is necessary that there should be one of a family that can . 
He has been fortunate at the taverns where we lodged to get the waiters to write and read billets to ladies ; but such can not be always at hand for these things ; but a wife may . 
It is true his hopes in government are uncertain , as to being an ambassador or consul , but he may get to be a valet de chambre to one of these : and though the ambition of Miss Mutchkin may not be so much flattered , as to be the lady of a minister , yet true happiness is to be found in contentment ; and the love she has for his person , may make amends for the want of rank and honor ; much more for the want of fortune ; for riches are but dross , and the maid of a kitchen may be as happy as the mistress in the parlour . 
There being therefore no doubt of the facts , it will remain only to account for them , and indeed , though we have partly done it already , in some observations we have made , yet this , and the like circumstances which occur every day in life , of Teague O'Regans and bog-trotters , being the favorites of ladies in preference to the most accomplished men , is so contrary to what we would expect , that it may deserve a more minute developement of the causes and principles . 
By de holy fathers , said Teague , I know no Johnston . 
He sends you a challenge , said the Captain , to meet him on the commons this evening at six o'clock , with a brace of pistols and a second to determine whether you or he has the best right to pay attention to this lady . 
The waiter was the only person who by receiving the billets , and handing them in the absence of the Captain , and reading them to Teague , might inflame his mind with the thoughts of the fine ladies , and gay circles , from which he seemed to be just recovered : taking him aside , therefore , and accosting him , Mathew , said he , for that was the name of the waiter , I do not know that I ought to find any fault with your giving your service for some time past , to my Teague , in reading the billets directed to him , and in writing his answers ; but I desire that there may be nothing more of this . 
However , Teague continuing still to have some hankering after the company of the ladies , so as not to have his mind so much upon learning to write the characters of his name as the Captain could have wished , he found it necessary to engage the bar-keeper to assist him in personating now and then , some one who had come to demand satisfaction for the interference of the bog-trotter in affairs of love , that by keeping up the alarm on his mind , he might the better confine him to his studies . 
Teague hearing this and raising the Irish howl , would redouble his entreaties to the Captain not to let him in . 
Traddle called frequently , and declared that he had no resentment on account of Teague 's proposing to be his competitor , at the election in the country ; but wished him success in obtaining some appointment where his talents might be useful . 
WE have seen that a sort of constitution had been formed ; or rather government constituted ; for the Captain had been chosen Governor , and the blind lawyer appointed chief justice . 
Teague , the bog-trotter , though with great difficulty , drew after him a piece of a pine log , which he said he had been tired wielding , and knocking down people with . 
The Captain had a staff , not as large as a weaver 's beam , but far surpassing the size of a common walking stick . 
From these appearances , there had been no resistance made ; and in due time the country thought it advisable to put themselves under the protection of persons whose object it seemed to be to keep the peace , and maintain the laws . 
For these itinerant traders being from the eastward , and what are called Yankies , did not understand the vernacular of the west of Ireland , of which country Teague was . 
Having cased him in the panther 's hide , they exhibited him as one of this species , and giving him a touch of the whip now and then , and causing him to exclaim , in the language of complaint , they proved to a demonstration , that a beast might be taught to speak . 
The bog-trotter , in the mean time , had been missed , and something in the nature of a hue and cry had been raised on his account . 
Being found in the possession of the vagrants , they were questioned on the nature of their property by the officers who had detected them ; though this was not until they had had him in their custody several days , and had made money by the imposition . 
The detection of the fraud was unavoidable , being exhibited to so many , some of whom had been acquainted with the bog-trotter , and knew the peculiar idiom of his brogue ; so that suspicion first arising of the kidnapping , it came to certainty by the investigation . 
The robbers , as they might be called , were apprehended by a warrant from the chief justice , and brought before him . 
When the Governor came to interrogate Teague as to the treatment he had received in the tin cart , and the manner in which he had been apprehended , and put in it . 
By de holy faders , said he , I was tired trotting about de country , and just tought dat I would turn in , and slape a wink in a hay loft , when dese spalpeens , de one wid a shilelah , and de oder wid a whip , told me I was a wild baste dat could spake . 
A CONSTITUTION had been adopted and laws about to be made , when Teague O`Regan at the head of a number of his countrymen , began to make a disturbance . 
Teague in particular can not endure more ; I say a little less would do him good . 
For I always thought that a very impudent chorus . 
The affair was like to take a very serious turn , and the people would not be satisfied ; when Angus M`Donald , the Scotch gardener , having knocked down the panther that was studying law , and taken off a piece of his hide , came forward with it , saying it was little matter what had been done with Teague on the occasion alluded to , since he had put the law in force against him just now , and scalped him himself , as they might see by the red hair , and the blood . 
There is nothing sooner softens a passion , or calms a mad multitude , than the yielding to it . 
Hence the fury abated in a moment ; and when it occurred to them that their remonstrance to the governor had been the occasion of the tragedy , they began to relent , and to blame themselves as having been too precipitate in their representations . 
Amongst the malcontents with the constitution , it was not a little unexpected by the governor , to find Teague Oregan his late protegee and associate in his peregrinations . 
For notwithstanding he had , in the first instance , been appointed cryer of the court , and in the next , advanced to the grade of auctioneer , he was dissatisfied because he had not been made chief justice , or advanced to that of secretary of state . 
For these reasons he was amongst the loudest for a reform , and proposed an assembling of the whole people , once more to fix upon a new constitution . 
The governor conceiving himself to have some kind of right to controul and regulate the ambition of his bogtrotter , took an opportunity to expostulate with him on the danger and inexpediency of the proposition at this time ; and more particularly on the indelicacy of persons newly come into the country , taking upon them to be the first to propose a revision of that frame of government , which they had found prepared for them , and what on becoming citizens , they were under an implied obligation to support . 
Teague , said he , you can not but recollect the inconsiderable station from which I originally advanced you ; being a redemptioner on board a ship from Cork in Ireland . 
In fact though you called yourself a redemptioner you were a bound servant for years , and in such capacity you were under an obligation to serve me , nevertheless I treated you as a redemptioner , paid the money for you , the passage money , and told you that as soon as you had served me to the amount of it at the yearly hiring of a labouring person , I would give you your liberty . 
You do not consider , Teague , where this may end . 
said Teague . 
The junto , and Teague himself , spoke of the appointment of John Jay to the court of London , while he was chief justice , not resigning ; and of Ellsworth , also a chief justice , in a similar situation ; and of Albert Gallatin , who was secretary , and continuing such ; yet maugre all the clamour , and even good grounds , as Jefferson and Madison , and others thought , he , the said Albert , was appointed by the said Madison to an embassy . 
I will not say but that my bog-trotter might make a very good ambassador , with instructions , and the advantage of a secretary ; but is Teague O`Regan alone , in all the land , to be singled out for this trust ? 
There is more effect in a hint , than when the story is spoken out ; and therefore Thady , and the auctioneer also , their imagination outrunning their judgment , and their fears their ambition , concluded it would be best to stick to the hammer , and for Teague to remain a crier of vendues , and Thady O`Connor clerk . 
If , in giving a picture of a Hartford convention , in the narrative of the proceedings of the new settlement , I should , in due time , have a convention here too , I will have no chaplains , because it looks like a burlesque ; and it would be ten to one , if the governor could keep Teague O`Regan from being one of them . 
The Reverend Teague O`Regan , I presume , he must then be called , to give the greater solemnity to his function ; but this very designation would but increase the farce . 
Teague , though a fool , had more of a certain sort of sense , than the unsuspecting man . 
Dey may talk deir slander , and publish deir papers ; but it is all de same ting to Teague . 
This speech pleased the people much ; and they insisted upon the Governor to place Teague at the head of the finances . 
It is true , that as he had seen done in Ireland , by taking the lower jaw between his finger and thumb of the left hand , and pinching her upper jaw with the finger and thumb of the other hand , moving the lower jaw , in the mean time , as she mewed , he would make her pronounce something that resembled the saying Erin go bra , which was Irish ; and by another kind of movement , and breaking of the voice , it would seem to be , bacon , fat bacon , which was English . 
He knew Teague to be such a liar , that he could give no credit to what he averred . 
The Philosopher with Teague , appealed to the people , and reported that the Governor was averse to the having money made . 
The only remedy in this case was , the threatening that they would turn him out and put Teague in or the Visionary Philosopher for Governor . 
If this fool fellow , Teague O`Regan , that has been one day popular with you , so as to be fit for any office , and at another day not fit to be your hangman , has found a stone , which this politician , the visionary philosopher , gives out as having the virtue of transmuting metals , and changing wood or shells into gold and silver ; if this ragamuffin , I say , has found such a stone , which I no more believe than that my horses ' hoof has the virtue of changing the earth that he treads upon , into gold ; what good would it do you , when the very thing that makes such metal precious , scarcity , would take away all use , or benefit of it ? 
Now , I neither wish such subordination , or by such means ; but I tell you the truth , that I will resign the government , and go about my business , bog-trotting as I used to do , with some new waiter , if I should leave Teague upon your hands . 
At this , descending from the stump , and making as if about to go off , a great dismay fell upon the legislative body , and the multitude without . 
This I am not about to do at present , but rather , if you please , to moralize a little . 
I should be better pleased if I had it in my power to give some account of the progenitors of Teague , as being a character of greater singularity ; but that is not in my power . 
From his ambition for eminence , I should think it very probable that his descent was noble , and from some of the old Irish kings , if the heraldry could be traced ; but , in the sacking of towns , and burning of castles in the civil wars in Ireland , and foreign conquests by Danes , and by John Bull , all documents of ancestry have been lost ; so that we are at liberty to imagine what we please upon this head . 
Philosophers dispute with each other ; but the divines all agree that we all came from Adam . 
Teague , as we have seen , had been heretofore much in request with the ladies ; and still more so from the late reputation of his generalship , and the display of his tumbling at the camp-meetings . 
It was this which gave rise to my idea of such a candidate as Teague O`Regan for that honour . 
This led me to introduce Teague as a politician . 
An excise law , under the federal government , having been carried into effect ; and , it being obnoxious in the western country , and excise officers tarred and feathered , as you would a sheep , or an Indian arrow , it was with no view , but to burlesque the matter , that I made Teague a guager , or exciseman ; and being a sans-culotte ; which signifies , -- I thought , a pair of breeches , might not be amiss of any sort . 
I know , that after the present war , which , in the nature of things , can not last always , an ambassador will be sent to England ; and Teague may be a candidate . 
For though a great deal might be said in favour of a republican going from a republican government , being less in need of a knowledge of etiquette , like an Indian prince that comes from the woods ; yet , as those who had preceded him . 
Adams , Jay , King , Pinkney , & c. had not gone with their coats buttoned behind , but accommodated themselves to the dress , and the customs of the courts of Europe ; my bog-trottercould not well depart from precedent . 
