In the summer of the year -- Mr. Falkland visited his estate in our county after an absence of several months . 
I found Mr. Falkland a man of small stature , with an extreme delicacy of form and appearance . 
In place of the hard-favoured and inflexible visages I had been accustomed to observe , every muscle and petty line of his countenance seemed to be in an inconceivable degree pregnant with meaning . 
His manner was kind , attentive and humane . 
His eye was full of animation , but there was a grave and sad solemnity in his air , which for want of experience I imagined was the inheritance of the great , and the instrument by which the distance between them and their inferiors was maintained . 
His look bespoke the unquietness of his mind , and frequently wandered with an expression of disconsolateness and anxiety . 
Mr. Falkland questioned me respecting my learning , and my conceptions of men and things , and listened to my answers with condescension and approbation . 
This kindness soon restored to me a considerable part of my self-possession , though I still felt restrained by the graceful , but unaltered dignity of his carriage . 
When Mr. Falkland had sufficiently satisfied his curiosity , he proceeded to inform me that he was in want of a secretary , that I appeared to him sufficiently qualified for that office , and that , if in my present change of situation occasioned by the death of my father I approved of the employment , he would take me into his family . 
Such was the general appearance of Mr. Falkland ; but his temper was extremely unequal . 
The distemper which afflicted him with incessant gloom , had its paroxysms . 
Sometimes he was hasty , peevish and tyrannical ; but this proceeded rather from the torment of his mind than an unfeeling disposition , and , when reflexion recurred , he appeared willing that the weight of his misfortune should fall wholly upon himself . 
Sometimes he entirely lost his self-possession , and his behaviour was changed into frenzy . 
He would strike his forehead , his brows became knit , his features distorted , and his teeth ground one against the other . 
When he felt the approach of these symptoms , he would suddenly rise , and , leaving the occupation whatever it was in which he was engaged , hasten into a solitude upon which no person dared to intrude . 
It must not be supposed that the whole of what I am describing was visible to the persons about him ; nor indeed was I acquainted with it in the extent here stated , but after a considerable time , and in gradual succession . 
None of them , except myself from the nature of my functions , and Mr. Collins from the antiquity of his service and the respectableness of his character , approached Mr. Falkland , but at stated seasons and for a very short interval . 
I immediately conceived that Mr. Falkland was there , and was going hastily to retire ; but at that moment a voice that seemed supernaturally tremendous exclaimed , Who is there ? 
The voice was Mr. Falkland 's . 
Mr. Falkland was just risen from the floor upon which he had been sitting or kneeling . 
His countenance betrayed strong symptoms of confusion . 
Wretch , interrupted Mr. Falkland with uncontrolable impatience , you want to ruin me . 
You see nothing of him , my dear Williams , but the ruin of that Falkland , who was courted by sages , and adored by the fair . 
His youth , distinguished in its outset by the most generous promise , is tarnished . 
His sensibility is shrunk up and withered by events the most disgustful to his feelings . 
His mind was fraught with all the rhapsodies of visionary honour ; and in his sense nothing but the grosser part , the mere shell of Falkland , was capable to survive the wound that his pride has sustained . 
With this request he readily complied ; as conceiving that , whatever delicacy it became him to exercise in ordinary cases , it would be out of place in my situation , and thinking it not improbable that Mr. Falkland , but for the disturbance and inflammation of his mind , would be disposed to a similar communication . 
To the reader it may appear at first sight as if this detail of the preceding life of Mr. Falkland were foreign to my history . 
My heart bleeds at the recollection of his misfortunes as if they were my own . 
To his story the whole fortune of my life was linked ; because he was miserable , my happiness , my name , and my existence have been irretrievably blasted . 
Among the favourite authors of his early years were the heroic poets of Italy . 
From them he imbibed the love of chivalry and romance . 
He had too much good sense to regret the times of Charlemagne and Arthur . 
Mr. Falkland fell in with some of these . 
But his undaunted spirit and resolute temper gave him a decisive advantage even in such perilous rencounters . 
One instance among many of his manner of conducting himself among this proud and high spirited people , it may be proper to relate . 
Mr. Falkland is the principal agent in my history ; and Mr. Falkland , in the autumn and decay of his vigour such as I found him , can not be completely understood without a knowledge of his previous character as it was in all the gloss of youth , yet unassailed by adversity , and unbroken in upon by anguish or remorse . 
At Rome he was received with particular distinction at the house of marquis Pisani , who had an only daughter , the heir of his immense fortune , and the admiration of all the young nobility of that metropolis . 
But above all Mr. Falkland , as a foreigner , and a person little likely to form pretensions to the hand of Lucretia , was received upon a footing of great familiarity . 
Mr. Falkland , after a residence of several weeks at Rome , proceeded to Naples . 
Lady Lucretia , who had been considerably amused before with the conversation of Mr. Falkland , and who had an active and enquiring mind , had conceived in the interval between his first and second residence at Rome a passion for learning the English language , inspired by the lively and ardent encomiums of our best authors that she had heard from their countryman . 
When count Malvesi returned , he found Mr. Falkland established almost as an inmate of the Pisani palace . 
He believed that the match was in every respect such as to flatter the ambition of Mr. Falkland , and he was stung even to madness by the idea of being deprived of the object dearest to his heart by this insolent upstart . 
He had however a sufficient share of discretion to go first to demand an explanation of lady Lucretia . 
She in the gaiety of her heart trifled with his anxiety . 
His patience was already exhausted , and he proceeded in his expostulation in language that it was by no means possible for her to endure with apathy . 
The moment of expostulation was now over , and he found himself irresistibly impelled to justify his precipitate conduct with the lady , by taking for granted that the prosperous amours of Falkland were beyond the reach of doubt . 
Mr. Falkland was at home . 
The Englishman had an unaffected esteem for Malvesi , who was in reality a man of considerable merit , and who had been one of Mr. Falkland 's earliest Italian acquaintance , they having originally met at Milan . 
But more than this , the possible consequences of a duel in the present instance burst upon his mind . 
He had the warmest admiration for lady Lucretia , though his feelings were not those of a lover : and he knew that , however her haughtiness might endeavour to disguise it , she was impressed with a tender regard for count Malvesi . 
He could not bear to think that any misconduct of his should interrupt the prospects of so deserving a pair . 
Guided by these sentiments he endeavoured to expostulate with the Italian . 
But all his attempts in this respect were ineffectual . 
His antagonist was drunk with choler , and would not listen to a word that tended to check the impetuosity of his thoughts . 
He traversed the room with perturbed steps , and even foamed with anguish and fury . 
Mr. Falkland , finding that every thing else was to no purpose , told the count that , if he would return tomorrow at the same hour , he would attend him to any scene of action he would think proper to select . 
From count Malvesi Mr. Falkland immediately proceeded to the palace of Pisani . 
Here he found a considerable difficulty in appeasing the indignation of lady Lucretia . 
Honour forbad him to disclose the cartel he had received , though he was secretly determined never to draw his sword in the present quarrel ; otherwise that disclosure would immediately have operated as the strongest motive with this disdainful beauty . 
Mr. Falkland however drew so interesting a picture of the disturbance of count Malvesi 's mind , and accounted in so flattering a manner for the abruptness of his conduct , that this , together with the arguments he adduced , completed the conquest of lady Lucretia 's resentment . 
Having thus far accomplished his purpose , he proceeded to disclose to her every thing that had passed . 
The next day count Malvesi appeared , punctual to his appointment , at Mr. Falkland 's hotel . 
Mr. Falkland came to the door to receive him , but requested him to enter the house for a moment , as he had still an affair of three minutes to dispatch . 
Here Mr. Falkland left him , and presently returned leading in lady Lucretia herself , adorned in all her charms , and those charms heightened upon the present occasion with a consciousness of the spirited and generous condescension she now exerted . 
Mr. Falkland led her up to the astonished count ; and she , gently laying her hand upon the arm of her lover , exclaimed with the most attractive grace , Will you allow me to retract the precipitate haughtiness into which I was betrayed ? 
The enraptured count , scarcely able to believe his senses , threw himself upon his knees before her , and stammered out a reply , signifying that the precipitation had been all his own , that he only had any forgiveness to demand , and , though they might pardon , he could never pardon himself for the sacrilege he had committed against her and this god-like Englishman . 
As soon as the first tumults of his joy were subsided , Mr. Falkland addressed him thus : `` Count Malvesi , I feel the utmost pleasure in having thus by peaceful means disarmed your resentment , and effected your happiness . 
I have already said that this was by no means the only instance in the course of his travels in which Mr. Falkland acquitted himself in the most brilliant manner as a man of gallantry and virtue . 
He continued abroad during several years , every one of which brought some fresh accession to the estimation in which he was held , as well as to his own impatience of stain or dishonour . 
At length he thought proper to return to England , with the intention of spending the rest of his days at the residence of his ancestors . 
From the moment of his taking a step like this , dictated as it probably was by an unaffected principle of duty , his misfortunes took their commencement . 
All I have farther to state of his history is one uninterrupted persecution of a malignant destiny , a series of adventures which seemed to take their rise in various accidents , but pointing to one termination . 
Him they overwhelmed with an anguish he was of all others least qualified to bear ; and these waters of bitterness , extending beyond him , poured their deadly venom upon others , I myself being the most unfortunate of their victims . 
The person in whom these calamities principally originated , was Mr. Falkland 's nearest neighbour , a man of estate equal to his own , by name , Barnabas Tyrrel . 
This man one might at first have supposed of all others least qualified from instruction , or inclined by the habits of his life , to interfere with and disturb the enjoyments of a mind so richly endowed as that of Mr. Falkland . 
The arrival of Mr. Falkland gave a dreadful shock to the authority of Mr. Tyrrel . 
The advantages that Mr. Falkland possessed in the comparison are palpable ; and , had it been otherwise , the subjects of his rustic neighbour were sufficiently disposed to revolt against his merciless dominion . 
Even the ladies regarded Mr. Falkland with particular complacence . 
His polished manners were admirably in unison with feminine delicacy . 
The sallies of his wit were far beyond those of Mr. Tyrrel in variety and vigour ; in addition to which they had the advantage of having their spontaneous exuberance guided and restrained by the sagacity of a cultivated mind . 
It was common indeed to Mr. Tyrrel together with Mr. Falkland to be little accessible to sentiments of awkwardness and confusion . 
But for this Mr. Tyrrel was indebted to a self-satisfied effrontery and a boisterous and overbearing elocution by which he was accustomed to discomfit his assailants ; while Mr. Falkland , with great ingenuity and candour of mind , was enabled , by his extensive knowledge of the world and acquaintance with his own resources , to perceive almost instantaneously the proceeding it most became him to adopt . 
Mr. Falkland he described as an animal that was beneath contempt . 
Diminutive and dwarfish in his form , he wanted to set up a new standard of human nature adapted to his own miserable condition . 
He wished to persuade people that the human species were made to be nailed to a chair , and to pore over books . 
He would have them exchange those robust exercises which made us joyous in the performance and vigorous in the consequences , for the wise labour of scratching our heads for a rhyme and counting our fingers for a verse . 
For his own part he never saw any thing come of learning but to make people foppish and impertinent ; and a sensible man would not wish any worse calamity to the enemies of his nation than to see them run mad after such pernicious absurdities . 
While he saw nothing in Mr. Falkland but matter for contempt , they appeared to be never weary of recounting his praises . 
Perpetually anxious to prevent his superiority either in wealth or accomplishments from being painfully felt , it was felt so much the more certainly , and excited congratulation instead of envy in the spectator . 
The advantages of Mr. Falkland seemed by no means to diminish with their novelty . 
She accordingly so adjusted her manoeuvres as to be engaged by Mr. Falkland as his partner for the dance of the evening , though without the smallest intention on the part of that gentleman of giving offence to his country neighbour . 
While he was thus engaged , Mr. Falkland came up . 
Mr. Falkland however slided in a graceful and unaffected manner into the conversation that was already begun , and the well-meaning ingenuousness of his manner was such , as might for the time have disarmed the devil of his malice . 
The company now began to be in motion for the dance , and Mr. Falkland informed miss Hardingham that it was time to advance . 
Mr. Falkland uttered these words with the most even temper in the world . 
There was not in his manner the slightest appearance of defiance . 
He muttered curses as he went , which the laws of honour did not oblige Mr. Falkland to overhear , and which indeed it would have been no easy task to have overheard with accuracy . 
Add to this , that unaccustomed as he was to strenuous opposition , he was less prepared instantaneously to encounter it ; and indeed there was something in Mr. Falkland 's manner that extorted assent for the present , however prejudice might reassume its dominion . 
This was only one out of innumerable instances that every day seemed to enlarge , of petty mortifications which Mr. Tyrrel was destined to endure on the part of Mr. Falkland . 
In every one of them Mr. Falkland conducted himself with such propriety and unaffected mildness , as perpetually to make some addition to the stock of his reputation . 
A thousand times he cursed his stars , which took , as he apprehended , a malicious pleasure in making Mr. Falkland at every turn the instrument of his humiliation . 
Smarting as he was under a succession of untoward events , he appeared to feel in the most exquisite manner the distinctions paid to his adversary , even in those particulars to which he had not the slightest pretensions . 
From the moment of Mr. Falkland 's arrival in the neighbourhood Mr. Clare distinguished him in the most flattering manner . 
It happened at one of those public meetings at which Mr. Falkland and Mr. Tyrrel were present , that the conversation , in one of the most numerous knots into which the company was broken , turned upon the poetical talents of the former . 
A lady , who was present , and was distinguished for the acuteness of her understanding , said , she had been favoured with the sight of a poem he had just written , entitled , an Ode to the Genius of Chivalry , which appeared to her of exquisite merit . 
The whole circle immediately intreated Mr. Falkland to comply with their wishes , and Mr. Clare , who was one of the company , inforced their petition . 
Mr. Falkland had no false modesty or affectation , and therefore readily yielded his consent . 
If their kindness led them to expect too much , the loss , he said , was theirs . 
What he ought most to desire was to be set right , and he hoped he had fortitude enough tranquilly to abide the verdict of justice . 
The beauties of Mr. Falkland 's poem were accordingly exhibited with every advantage . 
He returned the manuscript to the lady from whom he had received it , and then turning to Mr. Falkland said with emphasis and animation : Why , this is well , sir . 
A moment after Mr. Clare had thus expressed himself , he quitted his seat , and with Mr. Falkland and two or three more withdrew . 
Why , surely , said the lady who had introduced Mr. Falkland 's ode on the present occasion , you must allow that poetry is a very agreeable and elegant amusement . 
-- Why , look at this Falkland ! 
Damn Falkland ! 
A few days after this adventure Mr. Tyrrel was surprised to receive a visit from Mr. Falkland . 
Mr. Falkland proceeded without ceremony to explain the motive of his coming . 
Mayhap , Mr. Falkland , we may not agree about that . 
Mr. Tyrrel , proceeded Mr. Falkland , you will readily imagine that the cause that brought me hither was not a slight one . 
Saying this , Mr. Falkland put out his hand in token of fellowship . 
My purpose , replied Mr. Falkland , is a manly and an honest purpose . 
Having said this , Mr. Falkland departed ; and Mr. Tyrrel had recourse to his old friend , to whom he unburthened the tumult of his thoughts . 
This Falkland haunts me like a demon . 
But no one was so much affected as Mr. Falkland . 
He immediately hastened to the spot ; but he found some difficulty in gaining admission . 
Mr. Falkland sent up his name . 
He was told that he was included in the general orders . 
He was not however of a temper to be easily repulsed ; he persisted with obstinacy , and at length carried his point , being only reminded in the first instance to employ those precautions which experience has approved as most effectual for counteracting infection . 
He found Mr. Clare in his bedchamber , but not in bed . 
He was sitting in his night-gown at a bureau near the window . 
His appearance was composed and chearful , but death was in his countenance . 
I had a great inclination , Mr. Falkland , said he , not to have suffered you to come in ; and yet there is not a person in the world it could give me more pleasure to see . 
Mr. Falkland , having once established himself in the apartment of his friend , would upon no terms consent to retire . 
Falkland , said he , when you came in , I had just finished making my will . 
Mr. Falkland kept his eye perpetually fixed upon him with mingled sentiments of anxiety and admiration . 
Falkland , said he , after having appeared for a short period absorbed in thought , I feel that I am dying . 
That task is reserved for younger strengths , for you , Falkland , and such as you . 
Falkland , said he , pressing his hand , the task of dying is not so difficult , as some people imagine . 
He had now been some time in bed , and , as every thing was still , Mr. Falkland hoped that he slept . 
But in that he was mistaken . 
Falkland , I have been thinking about you . 
Mr. Falkland was deeply affected with this expostulation . 
His sense of the generous attention of Mr. Clare at such a moment as this , was so great as almost to deprive him of utterance . 
Towards morning Mr. Falkland quietly withdrew the curtain , and looked at the dying man . 
I hope you are better , said Falkland in a half-whisper , as if afraid of disturbing him . 
Mr. Clare drew his hand from the bed-clothes , and stretched it forward ; Mr. Falkland advanced , and took hold of it . 
Mr. Falkland had witnessed the scene with much anxiety . 
His hopes of a favourable crisis , and his fear of disturbing the last moments of his friend , had held him dumb . 
For the last half hour he had stood up with his eyes intently fixed upon Mr. Clare . 
He avowed that he had not forgiven him his partial attachment to Falkland , and therefore could not recal his remembrance with kindness . 
Falkland forsooth attended him on his death-bed , as if nobody else was worthy to partake of his confidential communications . 
In the short time that had elapsed from the period in which Mr. Clare had fixed his residence in the neighbourhood to that of the arrival of Mr. Falkland from the continent , the conduct of Mr. Tyrrel had even shown certain tokens of improvement . 
The effects of his suavity however , so far as related to Mr. Tyrrel , had been in a certain degree suspended by considerations of rivalship between this gentleman and Mr. Falkland . 
It was precisely in this stage of the affair that Mr. Falkland and Mr. Tyrrel accidentally met in a private road near the habitation of the latter . 
They were on horseback , and Mr. Falkland was going to the house of the unfortunate tenant who seemed upon the point of perishing under his landlord 's malice . 
He had been just made acquainted with the tale of this persecution . 
It had indeed been an additional aggravation of Hawkins 's calamity that Mr. Falkland , whose interference might otherwise have saved him , had been absent from the neighbourhood for a considerable time . 
He had been three months in London , and from thence had gone to visit his estates in another part of the island . 
He had avoided applying to Mr. Falkland , or indeed indulging himself in any manner in communicating and bewailing his hard hap , in the beginning of the contention ; and , when the extremity grew more urgent , and he would have been willing to recede in some degree from the stubbornness of his measures , he found it no longer in his power . 
After an absence of considerable duration Mr. Falkland at length returned somewhat unexpectedly ; and , having learned among the first articles of country intelligence the distresses of this unfortunate yeoman , he resolved to ride over to his house the next morning , and surprise him with all the relief it was in his power to bestow . 
Mr. Falkland , it would be quite as well if you would mind your own business , and leave me to mind mine . 
Such was the conference of Mr. Falkland and Mr. Tyrrel respecting this odious transaction . 
Having set out with contempt , and persuaded himself of the unpardonable injustice of those by whom Mr. Falkland was esteemed , he was probably anxious to exclude the evidence of his worth ; and , as that evidence went on to increase , the struggle became more painful , and the situation more excruciating . 
Mr. Falkland departed from this conference with a confirmed disapprobation of the conduct of his neighbour , and an unalterable resolution to do every thing in his power to relieve the distresses of Hawkins . 
The enquiries Mr. Falkland set on foot after them were fruitless ; no traces could be found of the catastrophe of these unhappy people . 
But his disposition , always brutal , had acquired a new degree of ferocity since the settlement of Mr. Falkland in his neighbourhood . 
He occasionally forgot the gentleness with which he had been accustomed to treat his good-natured cousin . 
Her little playful arts were not always successful in softening his rage ; and he would sometimes turn upon her blandishments with an impatient sternness that made her tremble . 
Emily was exactly seventeen when Mr. Falkland returned from the continent . 
She beheld Mr. Falkland , whenever he was thrown in her way at any of the public meetings with admiration ; and , without having precisely explained to herself the sentiments she indulged , her eyes followed him through all the changes of the scene with eagerness and impatience . 
She did not see him , as the rest of the assembly did , born to one of the amplest estates in the county , and qualified to assert his title to the richest heiress . 
She thought only of Falkland , with those advantages which were most intimately his own , and of which no persecution of adverse fortune had the ability to deprive him . 
In a word she was transported when he was present ; he was the perpetual subject of her reveries and her dreams ; but his image excited no sentiment in her mind beyond that of the immediate pleasure annexed to the idea . 
The notice Mr. Falkland had taken of her in return appeared sufficiently encouraging to a mind so full of prepossession as that of Emily . 
There was a particular complacency in his looks when directed towards her . 
He had said in a company , of which one of the persons present repeated his remarks to miss Melvile , that she appeared to him amiable and interesting , that he felt for her unprovided and destitute situation , and that he should have been glad to be more particular in his notice of her , had he not been apprehensive of doing her a prejudice in the suspicious mind of Mr. Tyrrel . 
But , while she thus seemingly disclaimed all comparison between Mr. Falkland and herself , she probably cherished a confused idea that some event was yet in the womb of fate which might reconcile things apparently the most incompatible . 
One evening , a short time after the death of Mr. Clare , Mr. Falkland had been to the house of his deceased friend in his quality of executor , and by some accidents of little intrinsic importance had been detained three or four hours later than he intended . 
He did not set out upon his return till two o'clock in the morning . 
Mr Falkland had taken Collins with him , the business to be settled at Mr. Clare 's being in some respects similar to that to which this faithful domestic had been accustomed in the routine of his ordinary service . 
They had entered into some conversation , for Mr. Falkland was not then in the habit of obliging the persons about him by formality and reserve to recollect who he was . 
Mr. Falkland put spurs to his horse ; and , as they approached , the object presented every instant a more tremendous appearance . 
Mr. Falkland contemplated this scene for a few minutes , as if ruminating with himself as to what could be done . 
He then directed some of the country people about him to pull down a house , next to one that was wholly on fire , but which itself was not yet touched . 
Observing that they were motionless , he dismounted from his horse , and called upon them in an authoritative voice to follow him . 
He ascended the house in an instant , and presently appeared upon the top of it as if in the midst of the flames . 
Having , with the assistance of two or three of the persons that followed him most closely , and who by this time had supplied themselves with whatever tools came next to hand , loosened the support of a stack of chimnies , he pushed them headlong into the midst of the fire . 
He passed and repassed along the roof ; and , having set people to work on all parts , descended in order to see what could be done in any other quarter . 
She entered the passage ; viewed the hideous ruin ; and was then going to plunge into the blazing stair case , Mr. Falkland seized her arm ; it was Mrs. Jakeman . 
he cried , with a voice that seemed more than human . 
He charged the attendants to detain Mrs. Jakeman ; he enquired which was the apartment of Emily . 
Mr. Falkland ascended a neighbouring house ; entered that in which Emily was , by a window in the roof ; and in two minutes re-appeared with his lovely burthen in his arms . 
Having restored her to her affectionate protector snatched from the immediate grasp of death , from which , if he had not , none would have delivered her , he returned to his former task . 
By his presence of mind , by his indefatigable humanity and incessant exertions , he saved three-fourths of the village from destruction . 
The conflagration being at length abated , he sought again Mrs. Jakeman and Emily . 
He displayed the tenderest solicitude for the young lady 's safety , and directed Collins to go with as much speed as he could , and send his chariot to attend her . 
Miss Melvile had never seen so much of Mr. Falkland upon any former occasion , and the spectacle of such humanity , delicacy , firmness and justice in the form of man , as he crowded into this small space , was both altogether new to her , and in the highest degree fascinating . 
Mr. Tyrrel had formerly been tortured with the innocent eulogiums she pronounced of Mr. Falkland . 
She described his activity and his resources , the promptitude with which every thing was conceived , and the cautious , but daring wisdom with which it was executed . 
As for the young lady herself , she was wholly unconscious of the offence that had been given , and upon every occasion quoted Mr. Falkland as the model of elegant manners and true wisdom . 
She flattered herself that nothing less than a reciprocal passion could have prompted Mr. Falkland to the desperate attempt of saving her from the flames ; and she trusted that this passion would speedily burst the barriers of silence , as well as induce the object of her affection to overlook her comparative unworthiness . 
As Mr. Tyrrel 's objection to the very name of Falkland became more palpable and uniform , miss Melvile increased in her precaution . 
I am sure Mr. Falkland would do you any good office in the world : till she was checked by some gesture of impatience and fierceness . 
His imagination , ingenious in torment , suggested to him all the different openings in conversation in which she would have introduced the praise of Mr. Falkland , had she not been placed under this unnatural restraint . 
All his kindness for this unhappy orphan gradually subsided . 
Her partiality for the man who of all others was most the object of his hatred , appeared to him as the last persecution of a malicious destiny . 
He figured himself as about to be deserted by every creature in human form , all men under the influence of a fatal enchantment approving only what was sophisticated and artificial , and holding the rude and genuine offspring of nature in mortal antipathy . 
Impressed with these gloomy presages , he saw miss Melvile with no sentiments but those of rancorous abhorrence ; and , accustomed as he was to the uncontroled indulgence of all his propensities , determined to wreak upon her a signal revenge . 
This fellow he resolved to impose as a husband on miss Melvile , who he shrewdly suspected , guided by the tender sentiments she had unfortunately conceived for Mr. Falkland , would listen with reluctance to any matrimonial proposal . 
Grimes he selected as being in all respects the diametrical reverse of Mr. Falkland . 
He was not precisely a lad of vicious propensities , but in an inconceivable degree boorish and uncouth . 
His complexion was scarcely human ; his features were coarse , and strangely discordant and disjointed from each other . 
His lips were thick , and the tone of his voice broad and unmodulated . 
His legs were of equal size from one end to the other , and his feet mishapen and clumsy . 
He had nothing spiteful or malicious in his disposition , but he was a total stranger to tenderness ; he could not feel for those refinements in others , of which he had no experience in himself . 
He was an expert boxer ; his inclination led him to such amusements as were most boisterous ; and he delighted in a sort of manual sarcasm , which he could not conceive to be very injurious , as it left no traces behind it . 
His general manners were noisy and obstreperous ; inattentive to others ; and obstinate and unyielding , not from any cruelty and ruggedness of temper , but from an incapacity to conceive those finer feelings that make so large a part of the history of persons who are cast in a gentler mould . 
You had rather be Mr. Falkland 's miss , than the wife of a plain downright yeoman . 
Are not you continually singing the praises of Falkland ? 
Are not you in love with Falkland ? 
She saw with astonishment that he was the irreconcilable foe of Mr. Falkland , whom she fondly imagined it was the same thing to know and admire ; and that he harboured a deep and rooted resentment against herself . 
Why do you tell me of Mr. Falkland ? 
She exchanged a state of fortitude and alarm for her former pleasing dreams respecting Mr. Falkland . 
There is no Mrs Jakeman now to spirit you away ; no , nor no Mr. Falkland to bully for you . 
The man was Mr. Falkland . 
Two other men , whom by reason of the darkness he had not at first seen , and who were Mr. Falkland 's servants , hearing the bustle of the rencounter , and alarmed for the safety of their master , rode up ; and then Grimes , disappointed at the loss of his gratification , and admonished by conscious guilt , shrunk from farther parley and rode off in silence . 
It may seem strange that Mr. Falkland should thus a second time have been the saviour of miss Melvile , and that under circumstances the most unexpected and singular . 
He had heard of a man who lurked about this wood for robbery or some other bad design , and that it was conjectured this man was Hawkins . 
Mr. Falkland 's compassion had already been strongly interested in behalf of this victim of rural tyranny ; he had in vain endeavoured to find him , and do him good ; and he easily conceived that , if the conjecture which had been made in this instance proved true , he might have it in his power not only to do what he had always intended , but farther to save from a perilous offence against the laws and society a man who appeared to have strongly imbibed the principles of justice and virtue . 
Mr. Falkland had a little before had the opportunity to convince himself that the village conjecture in relation to Hawkins was untrue ; and was now upon the point of returning home , with no other satisfaction than that of having intended an act of benevolence , when Grimes and Emily came up to the spot upon which he had posted himself . 
Mr. Falkland did not immediately recognise miss Melvile , and the person of Grimes was that of a total stranger whom he did not recollect to have ever seen . 
The resolute manner of Mr. Falkland , combined with the dread which Grimes , oppressed with a sense of wrong , entertained of the opposition of so elevated a personage , speedily put the ravisher to flight . 
Mr. Falkland listened with eagerness and surprise . 
Though he had already known various instances of Mr. Tyrrel 's mean jealousy and unfeeling tyranny , this surpassed them all , and he could scarcely credit his ears while he heard the tale . 
Miss Melvile was obliged to repeat in the course of her tale her kinsman 's rude accusation against her of entertaining a passion for Mr. Falkland ; and this she did with the most bewitching simplicity and charming confusion . 
Though this part of the tale was a source of real pain to her deliverer , yet it is not to be supposed but that the flattering partiality of this unhappy girl increased the interest he felt in her welfare and the indignation he conceived against her infernal kinsman . 
Here Mr. Falkland willingly left her as in a place of security . 
Such reasoning will no doubt be generally found sufficiently solid , and it appeared to Mr. Falkland perfectly applicable to the present case . 
But he was mistaken . 
But this security was now lost , and Mr. Falkland would take a pride in publishing his dishonour . 
Though the provocations he had received from miss Melvile would in his own opinion have justified him in any treatment he should have thought proper to inflict , he was sensible the world would see the matter in a very different light . 
This reflexion augmented the violence of his resolutions , and determined him to refuse no means by which he could transfer the anguish that now preyed upon his own mind to that of another . 
By the direction of the physician whom Mr. Falkland had ordered to attend her a composing draught was administered ; and , exhausted as she was by the wild and distracted images that for several hours had haunted her fancy , she was now sunk into a refreshing slumber . 
Wait only three hours ; I will send off a messenger express to squire Falkland , and I am sure he will satisfy you as to any harm that can come to you , without its being necessary to take the poor lady to jail . 
Before they departed Mrs. Hammond dispatched a messenger with a letter of three lines to Mr. Falkland informing him of this extraordinary event . 
Mr. Falkland was from home when the messenger arrived , and not expected to return till the second day ; accident seeming in this instance to favour the vengeance of Mr. Tyrrel , for he had himself been too much under the dominion of an uncontrolable fury to have leisure to take a circumstance of this sort into his estimate . 
In the moments of suspended reason she was perpetually calling on the name of Mr. Falkland . 
Mr. Falkland , she said , was her first and only love , and he should be her husband . 
A moment afterwards she exclaimed upon him in a disconsolate , yet reproachful tone , for his unworthy deference to the prejudices of the world . 
It was very cruel of him to show himself so proud , and tell her that he would never consent to marry a beggar . 
But , if he were proud , she was determined to be proud too . 
He should see that she would not demean herself like a slighted maiden , and that , though he could reject her , it was not in his power to break her heart . 
Then the figure of Falkland presented itself to her distracted fancy , deformed with wounds and of a deadly paleness , and she shrieked with agony , while she exclaimed that such was the general hardheartedness , that no one would make the smallest exertion for his rescue . 
On the evening of the second Mr. Falkland arrived , accompanied by doctor Arnold , the physician by whom she had previously been attended . 
She asked , where they had hid her Falkland , her lord , her life , her husband ! 
Mr. Falkland tore himself away from this painful scene , and , leaving doctor Arnold with his patient , desired him when he had given the necessary directions to follow him to his inn . 
The perpetual hurry of spirits in which miss Melvile had for several days been kept by the nature of her indisposition was extremely exhausting to her ; and in about an hour from the visit of Mr. Falkland her delirium subsided , and left her in so low a state as to render it difficult to perceive any marks of life . 
Doctor Arnold , who had before withdrawn , to soothe , if possible , the disturbed and impatient thoughts of Mr. Falkland , was summoned afresh upon this change of symptoms , and sat by the bed-side during the remainder of the night . 
The situation of his patient was such as to keep him in momentary apprehension of her decease . 
Understanding that Mr. Falkland had brought the physician to attend her , and was himself in the neighbourhood , she requested to see him . 
Mr. Falkland had gone in the mean time with one of his tenants to bail the debt , and now entered the prison to enquire whether the young lady might be safely removed from her present miserable residence to a more airy and commodious apartment . 
When he appeared , the sight of him revived in the mind of miss Melvile an imperfect recollection of the wanderings of her delirium . 
She covered her face with her hand , and betrayed the most expressive confusion , while she thanked him with her usual unaffected simplicity for all the trouble he had taken . 
She hoped she should not give him much more ; she thought she should get better . 
Mr. Falkland and the doctor joined to request her to keep herself quiet , and to avoid for the present all occasions of exertion . 
She thanked him for his attention ; and expressed the most lively sense of her obligations to Mr. Falkland . 
She sincerely forgave her cousin , and hoped he might never be visited by too acute a recollection of his barbarity to her . 
If such were the feelings of men bred to the commission of injustice , it is easy to conceive what must have been those of Mr. Falkland . 
His whole life had tended to cultivate in him a mind tremblingly alive to moral good and evil . 
Upon such occasions he was unable maturely to collect his thoughts and firmly resolve upon the proceeding which the nature of the case required . 
His habits urged him to madness and ungovernable fury . 
He could not think of such complicated depravity but with sentiments of preternatural loathing and horror . 
Perhaps the agonies of the wretch broken upon the wheel , whom the very first sight of that engine of torture had thrown into convulsions , did not exceed those of Mr. Falkland in the present situation . 
He was therefore deprived for a time of all that composure of mind which is requisite to enable us to act with discretion . 
It was necessary to guard him like a madman . 
He did not doubt of the willingness of Mr. Falkland to discharge every expence that might be farther incident to the melancholy remains of this unfortunate victim ; but he suspected that the laws of fashion and decorum required that some notification of the event should be made to the head of the family . 
But , with this weakness , he had nevertheless some feelings in common with the rest of the world , and must have suffered a considerable degree of violence before he could have persuaded himself to be the messenger ; beside which he did not think it right in the present situation to leave Mr. Falkland . 
At this critical moment Mr. Falkland entered the room . 
He had been absent the last week in a distant part of the country , and was now returned two or three days sooner than he expected . 
Both he and Mr. Falkland reddened at sight of each other . 
Mr. Falkland advanced towards him without a moment 's pause , and in a peremptory voice asked him , what he did there ? 
In a moment he was in a part of the room where Mr. Falkland was standing , and with one blow of his muscular arm levelled him with the earth . 
The blow however was not stunning , and Mr. Falkland rose again immediately . 
It is obvious to perceive how unequal he must have been to this species of contest . 
He was scarcely risen , before Mr. Tyrrel repeated his blow . 
Mr. Falkland was now upon his guard , and did not fall . 
But the blows of his adversary were redoubled with a rapidity difficult to conceive , and Mr. Falkland was once again brought to the earth . 
It is difficult to conceive of any event more terrible to the individual upon whom it fell , than the treatment which Mr. Falkland in this instance experienced . 
Every passion of his life was calculated to make him feel it more acutely . 
He had repeatedly exerted the most uncommon energy and prudence to prevent the misunderstanding between Mr. Tyrrel and himself from proceeding to extremities ; but in vain ! 
To Mr. Falkland disgrace was worse than death . 
The slightest breath of dishonour would have stung him to the very soul . 
Mr. Falkland 's mind must have been full of uproar like the war of contending elements , and of such suffering as casts contempt on the refinements of inventive cruelty . 
He wished no doubt for annihilation , to lie down in eternal oblivion , in an insensibility , which compared with what he experienced was scarcely less enviable than beatitude itself . 
Horror , detestation , revenge , inexpressible longings to shake off the evil , and a persuasion that in this case all effort was powerless , must have filled his soul even to bursting . 
Mr. Falkland was baffled of the vengeance that yet remained to him . 
`` This day was the crisis of Mr. Falkland 's history . 
From hence took its beginning that gloomy and unsociable melancholy of which he has since been the victim . 
No two characters can be in certain respects more strongly contrasted , than the Mr. Falkland of a date prior and subsequent to these events . 
Hitherto he had been attended by a fortune perpetually prosperous . 
His mind was sanguine ; full of that undoubting confidence in its own powers which prosperity is qualified to produce . 
Though the habits of his life were those of a serious and sublime visionary , they were nevertheless full of chearfulness and tranquillity . 
But from this moment his pride and the lofty adventurousness of his spirit were effectually subdued . 
From an object of envy he was changed into an object of compassion . 
Life , which hitherto no one had so exquisitely enjoyed , became a burthen to him . 
He , who had lived beyond any man upon the grand and animating reveries of the imagination , seemed now to have to visions but of anguish and despair . 
His case was peculiarly worthy of sympathy , since no doubt , if rectitude and purity of disposition could give a title to happiness , few men could exhibit a more consistent and powerful claim than Mr. Falkland . 
`` He was too deeply pervaded with the idle and groundless romances of chivalry ever to forget the situation , humiliating and dishonourable according to his ideas , in which he had been placed upon this occasion . 
If Mr. Falkland had reflected with perfect accuracy upon the case , he would probably have been able to look down with indifference upon a wound which , as it was , pierced to his very vitals . 
How much more dignity than in the modern duellist do we find in Themistocles , the most gallant of the Greeks ; who , when Eurybiades , his commander in chief , in answer to some of his remonstrances , lifted his cane over him with a menacing air , accosted him in that noble apostrophe , Strike , but hear ? 
`` These reasonings , however simple and irresistible they must be found by a dispassionate enquirer , are little reflected on by the world at large , and were most of all uncongenial to the prejudices of Mr. Falkland . 
But the public disgrace and chastisement that had been imposed upon him , intolerable as they were to be recollected , were not the whole of the mischief that redounded to our unfortunate patron from the transactions of that day . 
No man had ever held his reputation so dear to him as Mr. Falkland ; and now in one day he was fallen under the most exquisite calamities , a complicated personal insult , and the imputation of the foulest of crimes . 
He might have fled ; for no one was forward to proceed against a man so adored as Mr. Falkland , or in revenge of one so universally execrated as Mr. Tyrrel . 
Mr. Falkland had left the rooms immediately after his assailant ; and , though he had been attended by one or two of the gentlemen to his inn , it appeared that he had left them upon some slight pretence as soon as he arrived at it , and , when they enquired for him of the waiters , they were given to understand that he had mounted his horse and rode home . 
In consideration of these particulars the magistrates concluded that they could not be justified but in committing Mr. Falkland to prison . 
His defence was manly , logical , and impressive . 
But , though they entertained the strongest presumption of his innocence , they conceived that they were obliged in their capacity to proceed upon the unfortunate circumstances that appeared against the accused , and commit him for his deliverance to a trial by his country . 
In all this Mr. Falkland was nearly passive . 
He seemed to fear by too direct an appeal to judicature to render more precise an imputation the memory of which he deprecated , at the same time that he was sufficiently willing to meet the severest scrutiny , and , if he could not hope to have it forgotten that he had ever been accused , to prove in the most satisfactory manner that the accusation was unjust . 
`` Never in this quarter of the island was a court more crowded with persons of the highest distinction than upon Mr. Falkland 's trial . 
It may be supposed that this suppression is particularly acceptable to Mr. Falkland ; and I should not have acted in contradiction to his modes of thinking in communicating the story to you , had there not been circumstances of peculiar urgency that seemed to render the communication desirable . 
As soon as the evidence for the crown had been gone through , Mr. Falkland immediately proceeded to his defence . 
Several copies of the trial were made , and Mr. Falkland seemed for a short time to have had the idea of sending it to the press . 
`` You will easily imagine that Mr. Falkland was acquitted with every circumstance of honour . 
It may be granted indeed that Mr. Falkland had his faults , but those very faults placed him at a still farther distance from the criminality in question . 
He was the fool of honour and fame ; a man whom in the pursuit of reputation nothing could divert ; who would have purchased the character of a true , gallant and undaunted hero at the expence of worlds , and who thought every calamity nominal but a stain upon his honour . 
Mr. Falkland was no sooner withdrawn , than the gentlemen in the court crowded together to consult how they should most effectually express their congratulation . 
They immediately named a deputation to wait upon him for that purpose . 
`` But nothing could reach the heart of Mr. Falkland . 
He was not insensible to the general kindness and exertions ; but it was too evident that the melancholy that had taken hold of his mind was invincible . 
He had lived here from the period of his flight in so private a manner , that all the enquiries that had been set on foot by the benevolence of Mr. Falkland or the insatiable malice of Mr. Tyrrel had been insufficient to discover him . 
But the compassion of the public was in a great measure shut against him , as they thought it a piece of barbarous and unpardonable selfishness , that he had not rather come boldly forward to meet the consequences of his own conduct , than suffer a man of so much public worth as Mr. Falkland , and who had been so desirous of doing him good , to be tried for a murder that he had committed . 
`` From this time to the present Mr. Falkland has been nearly such as you at present see him . 
To be sure , if he were guilty , it was very cruel of him to suffer a man of so much dignity and worth as Mr. Falkland to be tried for his crime ! 
And yet I could not help bitterly compassionating the honest fellow , brought to the gallows , as he was , strictly speaking , by the machinations of that devil incarnate , Mr. Tyrrel . 
Was it possible after all that Mr. Falkland should be the murderer ? 
The reader will scarcely believe that the idea suggested itself to my mind , that I would ask him . 
And yet what was the meaning of all Mr. Falkland 's agonies and terrors ? 
To be a spy upon Mr. Falkland ! 
I remembered the stern reprimand I had received , his terrible looks ; and the recollection gave a kind of tingling sensation , not altogether unallied to enjoyment . 
The more impenetrable Mr. Falkland was determined to be , the more uncontrolable was my curiosity . 
These reflections led gradually to a new state of my mind , When I had first removed into Mr. Falkland 's family , the novelty of the scene rendered me cautious and reserved . 
I had always had a propensity to communicate my thoughts ; my age was naturally inclined to talkativeness ; and I ventured occasionally in a sort of hesitating way , as if questioning whether such a conduct might be allowed , to express my sentiments as they arose , in the presence of Mr. Falkland . 
The first time I did so , he looked at me with an air of surprise , made me no answer , and presently took occasion to leave me . 
Mr. Falkland 's situation was like that of a fish that plays with the bait employed to entrap him . 
By my manner he was in a certain degree encouraged to lay aside his usual reserve and relax his stateliness ; till some abrupt observation or interrogatory stung him into recollection and brought back his alarm . 
Still it was evident that he bore about him a secret wound . 
Whenever the cause of his sorrows was touched , though in a manner the most indirect and remote , his countenance altered , his distemper returned , and it was with difficulty that he could suppress his emotions , sometimes conquering himself with painful effort , and sometimes bursting into a sort of paroxysm of insanity , and hastening to bury himself in solitude . 
These appearances I too frequently interpreted into grounds of suspicion , though I might with equal probability and more liberality have ascribed them to the cruel mortifications he had encountered in the objects of his darling ambition . 
Mr. Collins had strongly urged me to secrecy ; and Mr. Falkland , whenever my gesture or his consciousness impressed him with the idea of my knowing more than I expressed , looked at me with wistful earnestness , as questioning what was the degree of information I possessed , and how it was obtained . 
But again at our next interview the simple vivacity of my manner restored his tranquillity , obliterated the emotion of which I had been the cause , and placed things afresh in their former situation . 
The longer this humble familiarity on my part had continued , the more effort it would require to suppress it ; and Mr. Falkland was neither willing to mortify me by a severe prohibition of speech , nor even perhaps to make me of so much consequence as that prohibition might seem to imply . 
The secret wound of Mr. Falkland 's mind was much more uniformly present to his recollection than to mine ; and a thousand times he applied the remarks that occurred in conversation , when I had not the remotest idea of such an application till some singularity in his manner brought it back to my thoughts . 
The consciousness of this morbid sensibility , and the imagination that its influence might perhaps constitute the whole of the case , served probably to spur Mr. Falkland again to the charge , and connect a sentiment of shame with every project that suggested itself for interrupting the freedom of our intercourse . 
Pray , sir , said I , one day as I was assisting Mr. Falkland in arranging some papers previously to their being transcribed into his collection , how came Alexander of Macedon to be surnamed the Great ? 
Mr. Falkland involuntarily reddened at these citations . 
Did these authors think that by the coarseness of their ribaldry they could destroy his well-earned fame ? 
The blood forsook at once the transparent complexion of Mr. Falkland , and then rushed back again with rapidity and fierceness . 
After a short , but severe , struggle to continue the conversation , Mr. Falkland began with trepidation , but afterwards became calmer : You are not candid -- Alexander -- You must learn more clemency -- Alexander , I say , does not deserve this rigour . 
Mr. Falkland felt the full force of this appeal . 
He gave me a penetrating look as if he would see my very soul . 
His eyes were then in an instant withdrawn . 
I could perceive him seized with a convulsive shuddering , which , though strongly counteracted , and therefore scarcely visible , had I know not what of terrible in it . 
He left his employment , strode about the room in anger , his visage gradually assumed an expression as of supernatural barbarity , he quitted the apartment abruptly , and flung the door with a violence that seemed to shake the house . 
Is it possible , said I , that Mr. Falkland , who is thus overwhelmed with a sense of the unmerited dishonour that has been fastened upon him in the face of the world , will long endure the presence of a raw and unfriended youth , who is perpetually bringing back that dishonour to his recollection , and who seems himself the most forward to entertain the accusation ? 
I felt indeed that Mr. Falkland would not hastily incline to dismiss me , for the same reason that restrained him from many other actions which might seem to savour of a too tender and ambiguous sensibility . 
That he should cherish in his heart a growing hatred against me , and that he should think himself obliged to retain me a continual thorn in his side , was an idea by no means of favourable augury to my future peace . 
Having satisfied my curiosity with respect to this paper , I took care to dispose of it in such a manner as that it should be found by Mr. Falkland ; at the same time that , in obedience to the principle which at present governed me with absolute dominion , I was willing that the way in which it offered itself to his attention , should suggest to him the idea that it had possibly passed through my hands . 
The next morning I saw him , and I exerted myself to lead the conversation , which by this time I well knew how to introduce , by insensible degrees to the point I desired . 
said Mr. Falkland , a little disturbed , you are strangely given to censure and severity . 
Indeed , replied Mr. Falkland with a sigh , when I consider these things , I do not wonder at the dying exclamation of Brutus , O Virtue ! 
Mr. Falkland made a powerful effort to recover his tranquillity . 
said he , you instruct me well . 
The idea I suggested did not give Mr. Falkland the proper degree of delight . 
He suffered a temporary relapse . 
-- he muttered . 
Having said this , he seemed suddenly to recollect himself , and re-assume his accustomed dignity and command . 
cried he . 
Two days subsequent to this conversation Mr. Falkland ordered me to be called to him . 
His countenance was habitually animated and expressive much beyond that of any other man I have seen . 
Upon this occasion Mr. Falkland 's countenance exhibited an unwonted composure . 
This composure however did not seem to result from internal ease , but from an effort which , while he prepared himself for an interesting scene , was exerted to prevent his presence of mind and power of voluntary action from suffering any diminution . 
Mr. Falkland 's countenance had indicated great severity through the whole of this conversation ; but now it became more harsh and tempestuous than ever . 
I thought with astonishment , even with rapture , of the attention and kindness towards me I discovered in Mr. Falkland through all the roughness of his manner . 
I did not wonder at the disturbance that was given to Mr. Falkland by any allusion however distant to this fatal affair . 
That was as completely accounted for from the consideration of his excessive sensibility in matters of honour , as it would have been upon the supposition of the most atrocious guilt . 
Knowing as he did , that such a charge had once been connected with his name , he would of course be perpetually uneasy , and suspect some latent insinuation at every possible opportunity . 
He would doubt and fear , lest every man with whom he conversed harboured the foulest suspicions against him . 
In my case he found that I was in possession of some information more than he was aware of , without its being possible for him to decide to what it amounted , whether I had heard a just or unjust , a candid or calumniatory tale . 
He had also reason to suppose that I gave entertainment to thoughts derogatory to his honour , and that I did not form that favourable judgment which the exquisite refinement of his ruling passion made indispensible to his peace . 
All these considerations would of course maintain in him a state of perpetual uneasiness . 
Mr. Falkland , who was most painfully alive to every thing that related to his honour , saw these variations , and betrayed his consciousness of them now in one manner and now in another , frequently before I was myself aware , sometimes almost before they existed . 
But to Mr. Falkland there was no consolation . 
What he endured in the intercourse between us appeared to be all gratuitous evil . 
He had only to wish that there was no such person as myself in the world , and to curse the hour when his humanity led him to rescue me from my obscurity , and place me in his service . 
I no longer said to myself , as I had done in the beginning , `` I will ask Mr. Falkland whether he were the murderer . '' 
But I could not endure to think almost for a moment of that side of the alternative as true ; and , with all my ungovernable suspicion , arising from the mysteriousness of the circumstances , and the delight which a young and unfledged mind receives from ideas that give scope to all that imagination can picture of terrible or sublime , I could not yet bring myself to consider Mr. Falkland 's guilt as a supposition attended with the remotest probability . 
But it was impossible that a man of Mr. Falkland 's distinction and fortune should long continue in such a practice without its being discovered what was become of him , though a considerable part of our country was among the wildest and most desolate districts that are to be found in South Britain . 
Mr. Falkland was sometimes seen climbing among the rocks , reclining motionless for hours together upon the edge of a precipice , or lulled into a kind of nameless lethargy of despair by the dashing of the torrents . 
He would remain for whole nights together under the naked cope of heaven , inattentive to the consideration either of place or time , insensible to the variations of the weather , or rather seeming to be delighted with that uproar of the elements which partially called off his attention from the discord and dejection which occupied his own mind . 
At first , when we received intelligence at any time of the place to which Mr. Falkland had withdrawn himself , some person of his houshold , Mr. Collins or myself , but most generally myself , as I was always at home , and always in the received sense of that word at leisure , went to him to persuade him to return . 
Mr. Collins , whose grey hairs and long services seemed to give him a sort of right to be importunate , sometimes succeeded ; though even in that case there was nothing that could sit more uneasy upon Mr. Falkland than this insinuation as if he wanted a guardian to take care of him , or as if he were , or were in danger of , falling into a state in which he would be incapable of deliberately controling his own words and actions . 
At one time he would sullenly yield to his humble , venerable friend , murmuring grievously at the constraint that was put upon him , but without spirit enough even to complain of it with energy . 
At another time , even though complying , he would suddenly burst out in a paroxysm of resentment . 
Upon these occasions there was something inconceivably , savagely terrible in his anger , that gave to the person against whom it was directed the most humiliating and insupportable sensations . 
Me he always treated at these times with fierceness , and drove me from him with a vehemence , lofty , emphatical and sustained beyond any thing of which I should have thought human nature to be capable . 
These sallies seemed always to constitute a sort of crisis in his indisposition ; and , whenever he was induced to such a premature return , he would fall immediately after into a state of the most melancholy inactivity , in which he usually continued for two or three days . 
It was by an obstinate fatality that , whenever I saw Mr. Falkland in these deplorable situations , and particularly when I lighted upon him after having sought him among the rocks and precipices , pale , emaciated , solitary and haggard , the suggestion would continually recur to me , in spite of inclination , in spite of persuasion and in spite of evidence , Surely this man is a murderer ! 
As Mr. Falkland had by this time acquired the repute of a melancholy valetudinarian , it is probable he would not have been called upon to act in his official character upon the present occasion , had it not been that two or three of the neighbouring justices were all of them from home at once , so that he was the only one to be found in a circuit of many miles . 
The reader however must not imagine , though I have employed the word insanity in describing Mr. Falkland 's symptoms , that he was by any means reckoned for a madman by the generality of those who had occasion to observe him . 
It is true that his behaviour at certain times was singular and unaccountable ; but then at other times there was in it so much dignity , regularity and economy ; he knew so well how to command and make himself respected ; his actions and carriage were so condescending , considerate and benevolent ; that , far from having forfeited the esteem of the unfortunate or the many , they were loud and earnest in his praises . 
I said , This man is arraigned of murder , and murder is the master-key that wakes distemper in the mind of Mr. Falkland . 
I will watch him without remission . 
I will trace all the mazes of his thought . 
Surely at such a time his secret anguish must betray itself . 
Surely , if it be not my own fault , I shall now be able to discover the true state of his plea before the tribunal of unerring justice . 
I could perceive in Mr. Falkland 's features as he entered a strong reluctance to the business in which he was engaged ; but there was no possibility of retreating . 
His countenance was embarrassed and anxious ; he scarcely saw any body . 
The examination had not proceeded far before he chanced to turn his eye to the part of the room where I was . 
Mr. Falkland 's complexion turned from red to pale , and from pale to red . 
I perfectly understood his feelings , and would willingly have withdrawn myself . 
The first surprise however having subsided , Mr. Falkland assumed a look of determined constancy , and even seemed to increase in self-possession much beyond what could have been expected from his first entrance . 
This he could probably have maintained , had it not been that the scene , instead of being permanent , was in some sort perpetually changing . 
For Mr. Falkland , he was at one moment engrossed by curiosity and earnestness to investigate the tale , while at another he betrayed a sort of revulsion of sentiment which made the investigation too painful for him to support . 
When the accused was called upon for his defence , he readily owned the misunderstanding that had existed , and that the deceased was the worst enemy he had in the world . 
Indeed he was his only enemy , and he could not tell the reason that had made him so . 
He had employed every possible effort to overcome his animosity , but in vain . 
The deceased had upon all occasions sought to mortify him , and do him an ill turn ; but he had resolved never to be engaged in a broil with him , and till this day he had succeeded . 
If he had met with a misfortune with any other man , people at least might have thought it matter of accident ; but now it would always be believed that he had acted from secret malice and a bad heart . 
The fact was that he and his sweetheart had gone to a neighbouring fair , where this man had met them . 
This was the story of which Mr. Falkland was called upon to be the auditor . 
These points perpetually smote upon the heart of Mr. Falkland . 
He at one time started with astonishment , and at another shifted his posture like a man who is unable longer to endure the sensations that press upon him . 
Then he new strung his nerves to stubborn patience . 
I could see , while his muscles preserved an inflexible steadiness , tears of unbidden anguish roll down his cheeks . 
He dared not trust his eyes to glance towards the side of the room where I stood ; and this gave an air of embarrassment to his whole figure . 
But , when the accused came to speak of his own feelings , to describe the depth of his compunction for an involuntary fault , he could endure it no longer . 
He suddenly rose , and with every mark of horror and despair rushed out of the room . 
Mr. Falkland had already heard the material parts of the evidence in person . 
At the expiration of that interval , he sent for Mr. Collins out of the room . 
It either appeared to them a casual and unimportant circumstance , or they thought it sufficiently accounted for by Mr. Falkland 's infirmity and misfortunes . 
For this time I could not get it out of my mind for a moment : `` Mr. Falkland is the murderer ! 
He is guilty ! 
Though I had scarcely caught a faint glimpse of his person , there was something in the occurrence that persuaded me it was Mr. Falkland . 
I shuddered at the possibility of his having overheard the words of my soliloquy . 
I had scarcely a doubt of its reality , when dinner time came , and Mr. Falkland was not to be found . 
The only conclusion made by his servants upon this circumstance was , that he was gone upon one of his accustomed melancholy rambles . 
The period at which my story is now arrived seemed as if it were the very crisis of the fortune of Mr. Falkland . 
I was in the act of lifting up the lid , when Mr. Falkland entered , wild , breathless , distraction in his looks ! 
He had been brought home from a considerable distance by the sight of the flames . 
At the moment of his appearance the lid dropt down from my hand . 
He no sooner saw me , than his eyes emitted sparks of rage . 
He ran with eagerness to a brace of loaded pistols which hung up in the room , and , seizing one , presented it to my head . 
I saw his design , and sprang to avoid it ; but , with the same rapidity with which he had formed his resolution , he changed it , and instantly went to the window and flung the pistol into the court below . 
He bade me begone with his usual irresistible energy ; and , overcome as I was already by the horror of the detection , I eagerly complied . 
It was an instantaneous impulse , a short lived and passing alienation of mind ; but what must Mr. Falkland think of that alienation ? 
To any man a person , who had once shown himself capable of so wild a flight of the mind , must appear dangerous ; how must he appear to a man under Mr. Falkland 's circumstances ? 
The insatiable vengeance of a Falkland , of a man whose hands were to my apprehension red with blood and his thoughts familiar with cruelty and murder . 
Was it possible I could have forgotten for a moment the awe creating manners of Falkland , and the inexorable fury I should awake in his soul ? 
I had always reverenced the sublime mind of Mr. Falkland ; I reverenced it still . 
I was still in this situation of mind when Mr. Falkland sent for me . 
His message roused me from my trance . 
I understood that the minute the affair of the chimney was over Mr. Falkland had retired to his own room . 
It was evening before he ordered me to be called . 
I found in him every token of extreme distress , except that there was an air of solemn and sad composure that crowned the whole . 
As I entered , he looked up , and , seeing who it was , ordered me to bolt the door . 
He himself went round the room , and examined all its other avenues . 
He then returned to where I was . 
Mr. Falkland is a murderer ! 
He killed Mr. Tyrrel , for he could not control his resentment and anger : he sacrificed Hawkins the elder and Hawkins the younger , because he could upon no terms endure the public loss of honour : how can I expect that a man thus passionate and unrelenting will not sooner or later make me his victim ? 
Mr. Falkland is a murderer ! 
He might yet be a most excellent man , if he did but think so . 
But , when I recollected the offence I had given , so contrary to every received principle of civilized society , so insolent and rude , so intolerable to a man of Mr. Falkland 's elevation and in Mr. Falkland 's peculiarity of circumstances , I was astonished at his forbearance . 
There were indeed sufficiently obvious reasons why he might not choose to proceed to extremities with me . 
But how different from the fearful expectations I had conceived were the calmness of his behaviour and the regulated mildness of his language ! 
In this respect I for a short time imagined that I was emancipated from the mischiefs which had appalled me , and that in having to do with a man of Mr. Falkland 's liberality I had nothing rigorous to apprehend . 
It is a miserable prospect , said I , that he holds up to me . 
He imagines that I am restrained by no principles , and deaf to the claims of personal excellence . 
But he shall find himself mistaken . 
Add to which , I had known Mr. Falkland from the first as a beneficent divinity . 
I had observed at leisure and with a minuteness which could not deceive me the excellent qualities of his heart , and I found him possessed of a mind beyond comparison the most fertile and accomplished I had ever known . 
I dared neither fly from the observation of Mr. Falkland , nor continue exposed to its operation . 
In no long time after the disclosure Mr. Falkland had made , Mr. Forester , his elder brother by the mother 's side , came to reside for a short period in our family . 
But Mr. Falkland knew not how to avoid the visit of Mr. Forester . 
Mr. Falkland could only say that the state of his health and spirits was such , that he feared a residence at his house would be little agreeable to his kinsman ; and Mr. Forester conceived that this was a disqualification which would always augment in proportion as it was tolerated , and hoped that his society , by inducing Mr. Falkland to suspend his habits of seclusion , would be the means of essential benefit . 
Mr. Falkland opposed him no farther . 
He would have been sorry to be thought unkind to a kinsman for whom he had a particular esteem ; and the consciousness of not daring to assign the true reason , made him cautious of adhering to his objection . 
He exhorted his host to pluck up a spirit , and defy the foul fiend ; but the tone of his exhortations found no sympathetic chord in the mind of Mr. Falkland . 
The more he explained the articles of his creed , the more irreconcileable did they appear with those of my master . 
In a word , after a thousand efforts of kindness to his entertainer , he drew off his forces , growling and dissatisfied with his own impotence , rather than angry at the obstinacy of Mr. Falkland . 
He felt no diminution of his affection for him , and was sincerely grieved to find that he did him so little good . 
They had scarcely any points of contact in their characters ; Mr. Forester was incapable of giving Mr. Falkland that degree either of pain or pleasure , which can raise the soul into a tumult and deprive it for a while of tranquillity and self-command . 
Mr. Falkland was devoted to contemplation and solitude . 
He put upon himself some degree of restraint upon the arrival of his kinsman , though even then his darling habits would break out . 
But when they had seen each other a certain number of times , and it was sufficiently evident that the society of either would be a burthen rather than a pleasure to the other , they consented by a sort of silent compact that each should be at liberty to follow his own inclination . 
Mr. Falkland was in a certain sense the greatest gainer by this . 
He returned to the habits of his choice , and acted as nearly as possible just as he would have done if Mr. Forester had not been in existence . 
Reduced as he was to a kind of last resort , he found me better qualified for his purpose than any other person of Mr. Falkland 's household . 
My habitual simplicity was extremely agreeable to him ; and , be it observed by the way , he loved to countenance the appearance of talents , while he professed to be their enemy . 
The manner in which he began this sort of correspondence was sufficiently characteristical . 
It was blunt and humorous ; but there was attractiveness , especially in a case of unequal intercourse , in that very rusticity by which he levelled himself with the great bulk of his species . 
He had to reconcile himself , as well as to invite me ; not to reconcile himself to the postponing an aristocratical vanity , for of that he had a very slender portion , but to the trouble of invitation , for he loved his ease . 
All this produced some irregularity and indecision in his own mind , and gave a very whimsical impression to his behaviour . 
Mr. Forester was the second man I had seen who seemed almost as much worth being studied as Mr. Falkland himself . 
Mr. Falkland was destined to be for ever unhappy ; and it seemed as if no new incident could occur from which he was not able to extract food for this imperious propensity . 
He was wearied with a perpetual repetition of similar impressions , and entertained an invincible disgust against all that was new . 
Beside this , I was but ill prepared for the servile submission Mr. Falkland demanded . 
When I first entered into Mr. Falkland 's service , my personal habits were checked by the novelty of my situation , and my affections were gained by the high accomplishments of my patron . 
As long as the threats of Mr. Falkland had been confined to generals , I endured it . 
But , when he went farther , and undertook to prescribe to every article of my conduct , my patience was at an end . 
He stretched his power beyond the limits of policy and prudence , and thus brought its very existence into question . 
I believed that nothing which his rage irritated by the most open rebellion could inflict , would be worse than the slavery he now pretended to impose . 
I was prepared for an amicable adjustment of interests ; I would undertake that Mr. Falkland should never sustain injury through my means ; but I expected in return that I should suffer no incroachment , but be left to the direction of my own understanding . 
Mr. Falkland observed these symptoms with visible perturbation . 
Whenever I was conscious of their being perceived by him , I betrayed tokens of confusion ; this did not tend to allay his uneasiness . 
One day he drew me aside ; and , with a look of mysterious , but terrible import , addressed me thus : Young man , take warning ! 
Every act of Mr. Falkland contained something of new , and I was unprepared to meet it . 
I had but too much reason indeed to believe that Mr. Falkland 's were not empty words . 
I knew his ability ; I felt his ascendancy . 
If I encountered him , what chance had I of victory ? 
The hostility of Mr. Falkland excited hostility in me . 
I was determined I would never calumniate him in matters of the most trivial import ; much less betray the grand secret upon which every thing dear to him depended . 
Mr. Forester had left us about three weeks , when Mr. Falkland sent me upon some business to an estate he possessed in a neighbouring county about fifty miles from his principal residence . 
The first determination of my mind was to escape from the lynx-eyed jealousy and despotism of Mr. Falkland ; the second to provide , by every effort of prudence and deliberation I could devise , against the danger with which I well knew my attempt must be accompanied . 
Still this thought dwelt upon my recollection : -- Mr. Falkland would never be made acquainted with our meeting ; I had an opportunity thrown in my way , which if I did not improve , I should deserve all the consequences that might result . 
What wonder that I was tempted to disclose , not Mr. Falkland 's secret , but my own situation , and receive the advice of a man of worth and experience , which might perhaps be adequately done without entering into any detail injurious to my master ? 
The fact , I proceeded , was , that there were certain reasons which rendered it impossible for me to have a tranquil moment under the roof of Mr. Falkland . 
I had revolved the matter again and again in my mind , and was finally convinced that I owed it to myself to withdraw from his service . 
He asked what reason I had to complain of Mr. Falkland ? 
Mr. Falkland was not ignorant of my dislike to my present situation ; perhaps he thought it unreasonable , unjust ; but I knew that he would never be brought to consent to my giving way to it . 
I replied , that I must intreat him upon no account to think of applying to Mr. Falkland upon the subject . 
I added , that perhaps I was only betraying my own imbecility , but in reality , unacquainted as I was with experience and the world , I was afraid , though disgusted with my present residence , to expose myself upon a mere project of my own , to the resentment of so considerable a man as Mr. Falkland . 
If he would favour me with his advice upon the subject , or if he would only give me leave to hope for his protection in case of any unforeseen accident , this was all I presumed to request ; and , thus encouraged , I would venture to obey the dictates of my inclination , and fly in pursuit of my lost tranquillity . 
Without the smallest notice , and as if he had dropped upon us from the clouds , Mr. Falkland burst into the room . 
I found afterwards that Mr. Forester had come thus far upon an appointment to meet Mr. Falkland , and that the place of their intended rendezvous was the next stage . 
Mr. Forester was detained unexpectedly at the inn where we now were , by our accidental rencounter , and in reality had for the moment forgotten his appointment ; while Mr. Falkland , not finding him where he expected , had proceeded thus far towards the house of his kinsman . 
To Mr. Falkland the meeting between me and his relation must appear , not accidental , but concerted . 
I was totally out of the road I had been travelling by his direction ; I was in a road that led directly to the house of Mr. Forester . 
But in this instance it was infinitely worse , than in those which had already given so much disturbance to Mr. Falkland . 
It had been forbidden with the most dreadful menaces , and Mr. Falkland was not ignorant how deep an impression those menaces had made upon my imagination . 
Such a meeting therefore could not have been concerted under such circumstances for a trivial purpose , or for any purpose that his heart did not quake to think of . 
The threats of Mr. Falkland still sounded in my ears , and I was in a transport of terror . 
Mr. Falkland , in this to him terrible crisis , did not seem to be in any degree hurried away by his passions . 
For a moment he was dumb , his eyes glared with astonishment ; and the next moment as it were , he had the most perfect calmness and self-command . 
Mr. Falkland quietly ordered me to return home , and take along with me the groom he had brought with him . 
I afterwards understood that he enquired minutely of Mr. Forester the circumstances of our meeting , and that that gentleman , perceiving that the meeting itself was discovered , and guided by habits of frankness , which , when once rooted in a character , it is very difficult to counteract , told Mr. Falkland every thing that had passed , together with the remarks it had suggested to his own mind . 
Mr. Falkland received the communication with an ambiguous and studied silence , which by no means operated to my advantage in the already poisoned mind of Mr. Forester . 
His silence was partly the direct consequence of a mind watchful , inquisitive and doubting ; and partly perhaps was adopted for the sake of the effect it was qualified to produce , Mr. Falkland not being unwilling to encourage a prejudice against the character of a person who might one day become the adversary of his own . 
Mr. Falkland , with a premeditation to which he had artfully given the appearance of accident , had taken care to send with me a guard to attend upon his prisoner . 
This was the recollection of the strange and unaccountable tranquillity which Mr. Falkland had manifested , when he discovered me in company with Mr. Forester . 
In a word , I took the resolution , because I already stood in fear of the vengeance of Mr. Falkland , to risque the possibility of provoking it in a degree still more inexpiable , and terminate at once my present state of uncertainty . 
-- instigated by these reflections , I sat down to address the following letter to Mr. Falkland . 
Mr. Falkland not being yet returned , though expected every hour , I was induced to make use of the pretext of fatigue to avoid an interview . 
The next morning I was informed , that he did not come home till late , that he had enquired for me , and , being told that I was in bed , had said nothing farther upon the subject . 
Satisfied in this respect , I went to the breakfasting parlour , and busied myself for some time in arranging a few books and some other little occupations , till Mr. Falkland should appear . 
After a little time I heard his step , which I perfectly knew how to distinguish , in the passage . 
Presently , he stopped , and , speaking to some one in a sort of deliberate , but smothered voice , I overheard him repeat my name as enquiring for me . 
In conformity to the plan I had persuaded myself to adopt I now laid the letter I had written upon the table , near where he usually sat , and made my exit at one door as Mr. Falkland entered at the other . 
I had not been here three minutes when I heard the voice of Mr. Falkland calling me . 
I went to him in the library . 
That is your letter , said he , throwing it . 
His manner was that of a man labouring with some dreadful thought , and endeavouring to give an air of carelessness and insensibility to his behaviour . 
Why was it that I was once more totally overcome by the imperious carriage of Mr. Falkland , and unable to utter a word ? 
The terrible images Mr. Falkland 's menaces had suggested to my mind , made me expect impediment and detection at every step , though the impassioned state of my mind impelled me to advance with desperate resolution . 
There I believed I should be most safe from discovery , if the vengeance of Mr. Falkland should prompt him to pursue me ; and I did not doubt , among the multiplied resources of the metropolis , to find something which should suggest to me an eligible mode of disposing of my person and industry . 
This intelligence gave the first check to the rapturous inebriation by which my mind had been possessed from the moment I quitted the habitation of Mr. Falkland . 
I had about fifty more that had fallen to me from the disposal of my property at the death of my father ; but that was so vested as to preclude it from immediate use , and I even doubted whether it would not be found better ultimately to resign it , than by claiming it to risk the furnishing a clue to what I most of all dreaded to incur , the persecution of Mr. Falkland . 
There was nothing I so ardently desired as the annihilation of all future intercourse between us , that he should not know there was such a person on the earth as myself , and that I should never more hear the name of my quondam master . 
I had not been long here , before , having occasion to cross the inn yard upon some occasion , just as I was going again to enter the house I saw one of Mr. Falkland 's footmen riding into the gate-way . 
I had no doubt that I was myself the object of his journey . 
But it was too late to think of avoiding his observation ; he was almost upon me before I saw him . 
But I presently remarked that he was alone ; and I believed that it would be disgraceful to fly , when , man to man , I might reasonably hope I could at any time get the better , either by the firmness of my determination , or the subtlety of my invention . 
You come to conduct me back to Falkland House ; but no force shall ever drag me to that place alive . 
It was as follows : Williams , My brother Falkland has sent his man Thomas in pursuit of you . 
He expects that , if found , you will return with him . 
I repassed in my thoughts every memorable incident that had happened to me under the roof of Mr. Falkland . 
I still less could persuade myself to believe , that Mr. Falkland , who shuddered at the very possibility of his own detection , and who considered himself as completely in my power , would dare to bring forward a subject so closely connected with that topic , which wakened eternal agony in his soul . 
I knew the inflexibility and sternness of Mr. Falkland 's mind in accomplishing the purposes he had most at heart ; but I also knew that every virtuous and magnanimous principle was congenial to his character . 
He told me that he did not yet know what Mr. Falkland had to allege against me , for that he had refused to know . 
He had arrived at the house of his brother by appointment on the preceding day to settle some indispensible business , his intention having been to depart the moment the business was finished , as he knew that conduct on his part would be most agreeable to Mr. Falkland . 
But he was no sooner come than he found the whole house in confusion , the alarm of my elopement having been given a little before . 
Mr. Falkland had dispatched servants in all directions in pursuit of me ; and the servant from the market town arrived at the same moment with Mr. Forester , with intelligence that a person answering to the description he gave had been there very early in the morning enquiring respecting the stage to London . 
Mr. Falkland seemed extremely disturbed at this information , and exclaimed upon me with great acrimony as an unthankful and unnatural villain . 
Mr. Falkland shook his head , and with a smile expressive of acute sensibility said , Brother , brother , you are the dupe of his art . 
No , Williams , said he ; I would not hear Mr. Falkland against you ; neither will I hear you in your defence . 
If Mr. Falkland 's accusation , whatever it be , shall appear to be premature , depend upon having me more zealously your friend than ever . 
I was totally ignorant of the charge to be advanced against me ; and not a little astonished , when it was in my power to be in the most formidable degree the accuser of Mr. Falkland , to find the principles of equity so completely reversed , as for the innocent , but instructed individual to be the party accused and suffering , instead of having , as was just , the real criminal at his mercy . 
I was still more astonished at the supernatural power Mr. Falkland seemed to possess of bringing back by the most irresistible means the object of his persecution within the sphere of his authority ; a reflection attended with some discouragement to that thirst of independence which now constituted the ruling passion of my mind . 
Mr. Falkland entered at one door , almost as soon as I entered at the other . 
He began : It has been the principle of my life never to inflict a wilful injury upon any thing that lives ; I need not express my regret when I find myself obliged to be the promulgator of a criminal charge . 
I strongly suspect , continued Mr. Falkland , this young man , who has been peculiarly the object of my kindness , of having robbed me to a considerable amount . 
Mr. Falkland having thus finished his evidence , called upon Robert , the valet , to confirm that part of it which related to the day of the fire . 
Robert stated , that he happened to be coming through the library that day a few minutes after Mr. Falkland 's being brought home by the sight of the fire , that he had found me standing there with every mark of perturbation and fright , that he was so struck with my appearance that he could not help stopping to notice it , that he had spoken to me two or three times before he could obtain an answer , and that all he could get from me at last , was that I was the most miserable creature alive . 
He farther said , that in the evening of the same day Mr. Falkland called him into the private apartment adjoining to the library , and bid him bring a hammer and some nails . 
He then showed him a chest standing in the apartment with its locks and fastenings broken , and ordered him to observe and remember what he saw , but not to mention it to any one . 
Robert did not at that time know what Mr Falkland intended by these directions ; but he entertained no doubt that the fastenings were broken and wrenched by the application of a chissel or such like instrument with the intention of forcibly opening the chest . 
Mr. Falkland treated this suggestion slightly , saying that , if I were the thief , I had no doubt taken the precaution to obviate so palpable a means of detection . 
The two that were first opened contained nothing to confirm the accusation against me ; in the third were found a watch and several jewels that were immediately known to be the property of Mr. Falkland . 
The production of this seemingly decisive evidence excited emotions of astonishment and concern ; but no person 's astonishment appeared to be greater than that of Mr. Falkland . 
I proceeded : One thing more I must aver ; Mr. Falkland is not deceived : he perfectly knows that I am innocent . 
I can produce no other witnesses of my innocence ; I therefore call upon Mr. Falkland to be my evidence . 
I ask him , Did you never boast to me in private of your power to ruin me ? 
Mr. Falkland returned no immediate answer to my interrogations . 
Mr. Falkland answered : Such a mode of defence hardly stands in need of a reply . 
Surely it is no sufficient rebutter of a criminal charge , that the criminal repels what is alleged against him with volubility of speech and intrepidity of manner ? 
You have not told us what was the cause of the confusion and anxiety in which Robert professes to have found you , why you were so impatient to quit the service of Mr. Falkland , or how you account for certain articles of his property being found in your possession ? 
You all of you know the unfortunate state of Mr. Falkland 's mind . 
You know the sternness , reservedness and distance of his manners . 
If I had no other reasons , surely it would afford small presumption of criminality that I should wish to change his service for another . 
The question of how these articles of Mr. Falkland 's property came to be found in my possession is more material . 
I only know that , as I have the most perfect assurance of Mr. Falkland 's being conscious of my innocence , for , observe ! 
I do not shrink from that assertion , I reiterate it with new confidence ; I therefore firmly and from my soul believe that their being there is of Mr. Falkland 's contrivance . 
Mr. Falkland is a man of rank and fortune ; he is your master . 
To you , Mr. Falkland , I have nothing to say . 
To you , Mr. Falkland , society is obliged for having placed this black affair in its true light . 
Leave out of it whatever tells to the disadvantage of Mr. Falkland . 
Mr. Falkland is my implacable enemy . 
Whatever may be his merits in other respects , he is acting towards me without humanity , without remorse and without principle . 
No , rejoined Mr. Falkland , to that I can never consent . 
Mr. Falkland , answered Mr. Forester , these sentiments do honour to your humanity ; but I must not give way to them . 
I care not for consequences , replied Mr. Falkland , I will obey the dictates of my own mind . 
After some farther contest Mr. Falkland , finding Mr. Forester obstinate and impracticable , withdrew his opposition . 
Accordingly a proper officer was summoned from the neighbouring village , a mittimus made out , and one of Mr. Falkland 's carriages prepared to conduct me to the place of custody . 
My fate being already determined , and one of the servants dispatched for the officer , Mr. Forester and Mr. Falkland withdrew , and left me in the custody of two others . 
They too had been the victims of Mr. Falkland . 
He exhibited , upon a very contracted scale indeed , but in which the truth of delineation was faithfully sustained , a copy of what monarchs are , who reckon among the instruments of their power prisons of state . 
What probability was there that the trial I had just endured in the house of Mr. Falkland was not just as fair as any that might be expected to follow ? 
The two most likely persons were Mr. Falkland and Mr. Forester . 
Mr. Falkland on the contrary was a man of the acutest sensibility ; hence arose his pleasures and his pains , his virtues and his vices . 
Though he were the bitterest enemy to whom I could possibly be exposed , and though no sentiments of humanity could divert or control the bent of his mind , I yet persuaded myself that he was more likely than his kinsman to visit in idea the scene of my dungeon , and to feel impelled to alleviate my sufferings . 
This was no other than the individual whom Mr. Falkland had some months before dismissed upon an accusation of murder . 
I had been a very little time removed , when I received an unexpected visit from Thomas , Mr. Falkland 's valet , whom I have already more than once mentioned in the course of my narrative . 
As I recovered , I told my story , except so far as related to the detection of Mr. Falkland 's eventful secret , to my protector . 
I had always placed some confidence in the returning equity of Mr. Falkland . 
Though he persecuted me with bitterness , I could not help believing that he did it unwillingly , and I was persuaded it would not be for ever . 
These expectations on my part had been encouraged by Mr. Falkland 's behaviour upon the question of my imprisonment and by various particulars which had occurred since . 
I saw him now , not contented with blasting my reputation , confining me for a period in jail , and reducing me to the situation of a houseless vagabond , but still continuing his pursuit under these forlorn circumstances with unmitigable cruelty . 
I knew his misery so well , I was so fully acquainted with its cause , and so strongly impressed with the idea of its being unmerited , that , while I suffered so deeply , I still continued to pity , rather than hate my persecutor . 
I said , Surely he might now believe that he had sufficiently disarmed me , and might at length suffer me to be at peace . 
At least ought he not to be contented to leave me to my fate , the perilous and uncertain condition of an escaped felon , instead of thus whetting the animosity and vigilance of my countrymen against me ? 
I do not recollect the precise images which in this situation passed through my thoughts , but I know that they concluded with the idea of some person , the agent of Mr. Falkland , approaching to assassinate me . 
This thought had probably been suggested , by the project I meditated of entering once again into the world , and throwing myself within the sphere of his possible vengeance . 
This idle disquisition was however speedily driven from my mind when I perceived that the carriage was Mr. Falkland 's . 
you must know as how that squire Falkland was once tried for murder -- Yes , yes , we know that . 
Well , he was as innocent as the child unborn . 
But I supposes as how he is a little soft or so . 
It was fortunate for me that my disguise was so complete , that the eye of Mr. Falkland itself could scarcely have penetrated it . 
I now took it for granted that I was once more in the power of Mr. Falkland , and the idea was inexpressibly mortifying and afflictive to my imagination . 
Escape from his pursuit , freedom from his tyranny , were objects upon which my whole soul was bent ; could no human ingenuity and exertion effect them ? 
Did his power reach through all space , and his eye penetrate every concealment ? 
Was he like that mysterious being , to protect us from whose fierce revenge mountains and hills we are told might fall on us in vain ? 
It was even possible that I had been seized through a mistake , and that the present measure might have no connection with Mr. Falkland 's affair . 
My conductors commented on my sulkiness , but remarked that it would avail me nothing , I should infallibly swing , as it was never known that any body got off , who was tried for robbing his majesty 's mail . 
They had a description of his person which , though , as I afterwards found , it disagreed from mine in several material articles , appeared to them to tally to the minutest tittle . 
-- no , it was impossible -- the person who had formerly lived servant with Mr. Falkland of -- ? 
I told him that , whatever might be the meaning of his question , I would answer him truly . 
I was the individual he mentioned . 
I have always believed that the men to whom it related were the very persons who had apprehended me on board the ship in which I had embarked for Ireland , that by some accident they had met with the description of my person as published on the part of Mr. Falkland , and that from putting together the circumstances they had been led to believe that this was the very individual who had lately been in their custody . 
In ordinary cases the hue and cry after a supposed offender is a matter of temporary operation ; but ordinary cases formed no standard for the colossal intelligence of Mr. Falkland . 
My mind had been gradually weaning from Mr. Falkland , till its feelings rose to something like abhorrence . 
I had long cherished a reverence for him , which not even animosity and persecution on his part could readily destroy . 
But I now ascribed a character so inhumanly sanguinary to his mind ; I saw something so fiend-like in the thus hunting me round the world , and determining to be satisfied with nothing less than my blood , while at the same time he knew my innocence , my innoxiousness , nay I might add my virtues ; that henceforth I trampled reverence and the recollection of former esteem under my feet . 
I lost all regard to his intellectual greatness , and all pity for the torture and agonies of his soul . 
I would show myself bitter and inflexible as he had done . 
Was it wise in him to compel me into extremity and madness ? 
Had he no fears for his own secret and atrocious offences ? 
And pray , sir , who is this Mr. Falkland , and what may have been the nature of your connection with him ? 
Mr. Falkland is a gentleman of six thousand per annum . 
I lived with him as his secretary . 
In other words you were his servant ? 
It was to this miserable condition , which might awaken sympathy in the most hardened bosom , that Mr. Falkland had reduced me . 
But , if this were unexpected , how much greater was my astonishment , when my prosecutor was called , to find neither Mr. Falkland , nor Mr. Forester , nor a single individual of any description appear against me ! 
The preliminaries I have described were scarcely completed , before Mr. Falkland entered the room . 
While Mr. Falkland was speaking , a sudden distemper came over his countenance , his whole frame was shaken by an instantaneous convulsion , and he staggered to a chair . 
In about three minutes he recovered . 
Yes , said he , I am still alive . 
My character shall be revered as spotless and unimpeachable by all posterity , as long as the name of Falkland shall be repeated in the most distant region of the many-peopled globe . 
Mr. Falkland listened to me with astonishment and impatience . 
He had entertained no previous conception of the firmness I displayed . 
Several times he was convulsed with the fury that laboured in his breast . 
Once and again he betrayed an intention to interrupt ; but he was restrained by the collectedness of my manner , and perhaps by a desire to be acquainted with the entire state of my mind . 
Finding that I had concluded , he paused for a moment ; his passion seemed gradually to enlarge , till it was no longer capable of control . 
said he , gnashing his teeth , and stamping upon the ground . 
Saying this he quitted the room . 
The figure and appearance of Mr. Falkland , his death-like weakness and decay , his more than mortal energy and rage , the words that he spoke , the motives that animated him , produced one compounded effect upon my mind that nothing of the same nature could ever parallel . 
The idea of his misery thrilled through my frame . 
How weak in comparison of it is the imaginary hell , which the great enemy of mankind is represented as carrying every where about with him ! 
From this consideration my mind presently turned to the menaces he had vented against myself . 
He had talked of power , but had given no hint from which I could collect in what he imagined it to consist . 
He had talked of misery , but had not dropped a syllable respecting the nature of the misery to be inflicted . 
Neither Mr. Falkland , nor any other person appeared , to disturb my meditations . 
I was still walking with my mind thus full of suspicion and forecast , when I discovered Thomas , that servant of Mr. Falkland whom I have already more than once had occasion to mention . 
He advanced towards me with an air so blunt and direct , as instantly to remove from me the idea of any thing insidious in his purpose ; beside that I had always felt the character of Thomas , rustic and uncultivated as it was , to be entitled to a more than common portion of esteem . 
What can Mr. Falkland contrive for me worse than the ill opinion and enmity of all mankind ? 
Mr. Falkland contrive ? 
He is the best friend you have in the world , though you are the basest traitor to him . 
I had no doubt that he had been charged to deliver it to me from Mr. Falkland . 
His animosity against me was as great as ever ; that I had just had confirmed to me from his own mouth . 
Yet his animosity appeared to be still tempered with the remains of humanity . 
He prescribed to it a line wide enough to embrace the gratification of his views , and within the boundaries of that line it stopped . 
I knew not what portion of calamity I was fated to endure , before his jealousy of dishonour and inordinate thirst of fame would deem themselves satisfied . 
I knew not in what mode Mr. Falkland intended to exercise his vengeance against me ; but I was seized with so unconquerable an aversion to disguise and the idea of spending my life in the personating a fictitious character , that I could not for the present at least reconcile my mind to any thing of that nature . 
I therefore decided in favour of the project which had formerly proved amusing to my imagination , of withdrawing to some distant , rural scene , a scene of calmness and obscurity , where for a few years at least , perhaps during the life of Mr. Falkland , I might be hidden from the world , recover the wounds my mind had received in this fatal connexion , methodise and improve the experience which had been accumulated , cultivate the faculties I in any degree possessed , and employ the intervals of these occupations in simple industry and the intercourse of guileless , uneducated , kind-intentioned minds . 
Thus tranquil , there were moments in which I even forgot there was such a person as Mr. Falkland in the world . 
Surely the dark and terrific menaces of Mr. Falkland were rather the perturbed suggestions of his angry mind , than the final result of a deliberate and digested system ! 
It is Falkland ! 
In vain I said , Mr. Falkland , wise as he is and pregnant in resources , acts by human and not by supernatural means . 
He may overtake me by surprise and in a manner of which I have no previous expectation ; but he can not produce a great and notorious effect without some visible agency , however difficult it may be to trace that agency to its absolute author . 
I was little better than distracted between the incoherence of my ideas as to my present situation excluding from it the machinations of Mr. Falkland , and the horror I conceived at the bare possibility of again encountering his animosity , after a suspension of many weeks , a suspension as I had hoped for ever . 
My original conceptions of the genius and the perseverance of Mr. Falkland had been such , that I could with difficulty think that any thing was impossible to him . 
Mr. Falkland had always been to my imagination an object of wonder , and that which excites our wonder we scarcely ever suppose ourselves competent to analyse . 
I would encounter the calumny in its strong hold , I would rouse myself to an exertion hitherto unessayed , and , by the firmness , intrepidity and unalterable constancy I should display , would yet compel mankind to believe that Mr. Falkland was a suborner and a murderer . 
Mr. Falkland had taken the infernal Jones into his pay , a man in three respects most critically qualified for the service in which he was now engaged ; by the unfeeling brutality of his temper , by the habits of his mind at once audacious and artful , and by the peculiar animosity and vengeance he had conceived against me . 
In all this Mr. Falkland , reasoning upon his principles , was only employing a necessary precaution . 
There was something in the temper of his mind that impressed him with aversion to the idea of violently putting an end to my existence ; at the same time that unfortunately he could never deem himself sufficiently secured against my recrimination , so long as I remained alive . 
But the change of my name , the abruptness with which I removed from place to place , the remoteness and the obscurity which I proposed to myself in the choice of my abode , were all insufficient to elude the sagacity of Jones , or the unrelenting constancy with which Mr. Falkland incited my tormentor to pursue me . 
Mr. Falkland , in addition to the large estate he possessed in England , had a very valuable plantation in the West Indies . 
This property had been greatly mismanaged by the person who had the direction of it on the spot ; and , after various promises and evasions on his part , which , however they might serve to beguile the patience of Mr. Falkland , had been attended with no salutary fruits , it was resolved that Mr. Collins should go over in person to rectify the abuses which had so long prevailed . 
That Mr. Falkland is a suborner and a murderer ? 
I have known Mr. Falkland in his maturer years , and have always admired him as the living model of liberality and goodness . 
The death of Mr. Falkland by the hands of the hangman ? 
I will not hurt a hair of his head , unless compelled to it by a principle of defence . 
I believe Mr. Falkland to be virtuous , but I know him to be prejudiced . 
He would never forgive me even this accidental parley , if by any means he should come to be acquainted with it . 
Might not Mr. Falkland reduce him to a condition as wretched and low as mine ? 
But it seemed this slender consolation was to be denied to me by the inexorable Falkland . 
-- Falkland ! 
This Falkland has invented against me every species of foul accusation ? 
Preserve these papers from destruction , and preserve them from Falkland ! 
I am now persuaded that the secret it inclosed was a faithful narrative of that and its concomitant transactions to be reserved in case of the worst , that , if by any unforeseen event the guilt of Falkland should ever come to be fully disclosed , it might contribute to redeem the wreck of his reputation . 
If Falkland shall never be detected to the satisfaction of the world , such a narrative will probably never see the light . 
If I succeed in what I now meditate respecting Falkland , my precaution in removing these papers will have been unnecessary ; I shall no longer be reduced to artifice and evasion . 
Having formed my resolution I set out from Harwich for the metropolitan town of the county in which Mr. Falkland resided . 
He might wonder at the direction I pursued , but he could not tell with what purpose I pursued it . 
I had to accuse Mr. Falkland of repeated murders . 
I demanded to be confronted with Mr. Falkland , and I was well assured I should substantiate the charge to the satisfaction of the whole world . 
If he did not think proper to apprehend him upon my single testimony , I should be satisfied if he only sent him notice of the charge and summoned him to appear . 
He represented to me Mr. Falkland 's health which had for some years been exceedingly indifferent , his having been already once brought to trial , upon the same accusation , the diabolical malice in which alone my proceeding must have originated , and the tenfold ruin it would bring down upon my own head . 
I should be pilloried for perjury , if not hanged for the robbery , in relation to which Mr. Falkland had so generously spared me upon a former occasion . 
A summons was at length granted , and notice sent to Mr. Falkland of the charge preferred against him . 
The thought of preferring a capital accusation against , and hastening the death of such a man as Mr. Falkland , was by no means an opiate to reflexion . 
After an interval of three days I met Mr. Falkland in the presence of the magistrate to whom I had applied upon the subject . 
I had only two hours notice to prepare myself , Mr. Falkland seeming as eager as I to have the question brought to a crisis , and laid at rest for ever . 
I can conceive of no shock greater than that I received from the sight of Mr. Falkland . 
His appearance on the last occasion on which we met had been haggard , ghost-like and wild , energy in his gestures and frenzy in his aspect . 
He was brought in in a chair unable to stand , fatigued and almost destroyed by the journey he had just taken . 
His visage was colourless ; his limbs destitute of motion , almost of life . 
His head reclined upon his bosom , except that now and then he lifted it up and opened his eyes with a languid glance , immediately after which he sunk back into his former apparent insensibility . 
He seemed not to have three hours to live . 
He had kept his chamber for several weeks ; but the summons of the magistrate had been delivered to him at his bed-side ; his orders respecting letters and written papers being so peremptory that no one dared to disobey them . 
Upon reading the paper he was seized with a very dangerous fit ; but , as soon as he recovered , he insisted upon being conveyed with all practicable expedition to the place of appointment . 
Falkland in the most helpless state was still Falkland , firm in command , and capable to extort obedience from every one that approached him . 
Till the moment that Falkland was presented to my view , my breast was steeled to pity . 
I thought that I had coolly entered into the reason of the case -LRB- passion in a state of solemn and omnipotent vehemence always appears to be coolness to him in whom it domineers -RRB- ; and that I had determined impartially and justly . 
I believed that , if Mr. Falkland were permitted to persist in his schemes , we must both of us be completely wretched . 
I believed that it was in my power by the resolution I had formed to throw my share of this wretchedness from me , and that his could scarcely be increased . 
It is true Mr. Falkland was mortal : but , notwithstanding his apparent decay , he might live long . 
He had declared that his reputation should be for ever inviolate ; this was his ruling passion , the thought that worked his soul to madness . 
He would probably therefore leave a legacy of persecution to be received by me from the hands of Jones or some other villain equally atrocious , when he should himself be no more . 
Shall I poison with sounds the most intolerable to his ears the last moments of a man like Falkland ? 
Here was Falkland solemnly brought before a magistrate to answer a charge of murder . 
I looked first at Mr. Falkland , and then at the magistrate and attendants , and then at Mr. Falkland again . 
I would brave the consequences I would submit to any imputation of cowardice , falshood and profligacy , rather than add to the weight of misfortune with which Mr. Falkland is overwhelmed . 
But the situation and the demands of Mr. Falkland himself forbid me . 
He , in compassion for whose fallen state I would willingly forget every interest of my own , would compel me to accuse , that he might enter upon his justification . 
But Mr. Falkland well knows -- I affirm it in his presence -- how unwillingly I have proceeded to this extremity . 
I have reverenced him ; he was worthy of reverence : I have loved him ; he was endowed with qualities that partook of divine . 
From the first moment I saw him , I conceived for him the most ardent admiration . 
He condescended to encourage me ; I attached myself to him with all the fulness of affection . 
He was unhappy ; I exerted myself with youthful curiosity to discover the secret of his woe . 
-- He was indeed the murderer of Tyrrel ; he suffered the Hawkinses to be executed , knowing that they were innocent , and that he alone was guilty . 
After successive surmises , after various indiscretions on my part and indications on his , he at length confided to me at full the fatal tale ! 
Mr. Falkland ! 
I acknowledge that in various ways Mr. Falkland shewed humanity towards me during this period . 
He would have prevented my going to prison at first ; he contributed to my subsistence during my detention ; he had no share in the pursuit that had been set on foot against me ; he at length procured my discharge when brought forward for trial . 
But a great part of his forbearance was unknown to me ; I supposed him to be my unrelenting pursuer . 
I could not forget that , whoever heaped calamities on me in the sequel , they all originated in his forged accusation . 
But the restless and jealous anxiety of Mr. Falkland would not permit him to repose the least atom of confidence . 
The only compromise that he proposed was , that with my own hand I should sign myself a villain . 
I am sure that , if I had opened my heart to Mr. Falkland , if I had told to him privately the tale that I have now been telling , he could not have resisted my reasonable demand . 
After all his precautions , he must ultimately have depended upon my forbearance . 
Could he be sure that , if I were at last worked up to disclose every thing I knew , and to inforce it with all the energy I could exert , I should obtain no credit ? 
If he must in every case be at my mercy , in which mode ought he to have sought his safety , in conciliation or in inexorable cruelty ? 
Mr. Falkland is of a noble nature . 
I proclaim to all the world that Mr. Falkland is a man worthy of affection and kindness , and that I am myself the worst of villains ! 
They could not resist the ardour with which I praised the great qualities of Falkland ; they manifested their sympathy in the tokens of my penitence . 
I record the praises bestowed on me by Falkland , not because I deserve them , but because they serve to aggravate the baseness of my cruelty . 
He survived but three days this dreadful scene . 
I have been his murderer . 
It was fit that he should praise my patience , who has fallen a victim , life and fame , to my precipitation ! 
It would have been merciful in comparison , if I had planted a dagger in his heart . 
He would have thanked me for my kindness . 
I wantonly inflicted on him an anguish a thousand times worse than death . 
His figure is ever in imagination before me . 
Waking or sleeping I still behold him . 
He seems mildly to expostulate with me for my unfeeling behaviour . 
I thought that , if Falkland were dead , I should return once again to all that makes life worth possessing . 
I thought that , if the guilt of Falkland were established , fortune and the world would smile upon my efforts . 
Falkland , I will think only of thee , and from that thought will draw ever-fresh nourishment for my sorrows ! 
Falkland ! 
