Every day , I could perceive that the boys treated me with more respect : and , although I was bitterly scolded at home and abroad , by my father , and my master ; and even -- by Elizabeth herself -- and by Hammond , the dwarf -- of whom , more by and by -- nothing could avail to make me leave off the practice of defendingmyself -- as it is known to be lawful , to do , in an enemy 's country , by offendingothers . 
Boyhood ... Love ... First gushing of the heart ... Fine specimen of an unfinished sentence ... Sleep ... Reflections ... Love in a child ... Lydia ... Jealousy ... Desperation ... Hammond the Dwart ... Reflections ... Death of Lydia . 
It was Hammond the Dwarf . 
He was the horrour of the whole town . 
I remembered his preternatural strength ; and how , when I had mocked at him once , and spit upon him -- and laughed at his big head , he had merely said , boy that he was -- and the tears gushed out of his eyes , when he said it . 
-- If he had , why did he let me beat him , and spurn him , and curse him , as he did ? 
-- Why had he pursued me , lame as he was ; and hunted me , within a few months , till Elizabeth , who knew how hateful he was to me , had cautioned him not to come near me ? 
And why had he abandoned me , as he did , uttering a threat , that chilled my very blood ? 
Was that his ferocious dog ? 
Had he come now , for vengeance ? 
Why did he not speak ? 
Why did he stand there , just before me , with his great unwieldy head , as if he saw me not ? 
He walked on , up the hill -- and he stopped ; -- I could hear him breathing hard . 
Might he not watch his opportunity , and provoke the dog , that fierce creature , upon me ? 
But he did not . 
We went on -- he never opened his lips , nor I , mine , until I was in sight of my home -- nay -- nor even then , but he called off the dog , and went his way -- limping , piteously . 
I turned round , and looked after him -- there were his long arms , and great feet , and waddling head -- by heaven ! 
it was like some monster , made by different workmen -- a piece at a time -- at different jobs -- as if one part had got cold , before the other was put to it -- yet , my heart smote me , for my ingratitude ; and , I yearned to go after him , and say -- `` would God , Hammond , that you were not so hideously ugly ! 
My foot was upon the door -- and , I saw him , as he turned the corner , under the lamp , put his long hands together , in the air ; and stop ; and hold down his head , for a moment , as if he were cruelly affected -- nay , if my sight did not deceive me , there was a motion of his hands , -LRB- we were not far apart -- and he stood in the light of the lamp -- but , he could not see me -RRB- -- as if he dashed away the water from his eyes . 
Still , still I thought of Hammond ; more , perhaps , than of Lydia ; for , there was , I know not what , something of an ugly soreness about here , that troubled me . 
What right had I to laugh at him ? 
Who was he ? 
what had he ever done to me , that was cruel , base , or unkind ? 
Was it weakness that made him so patient of insult ? 
Oh , no -- he had no match for strength . 
Was he a coward ? 
-- he ! 
-- Hammond a coward ! 
-- he , who struck the master himself , once , in the full school ? 
What , then , had kept his hands from me ? 
I knew not -- unless he knew that I was a coward , and was ashamed to beat me . 
Yet , I hated him ; and was willing to believe that , either he or his dog had saved me . 
I could not bear to be under any obligation to him , or to think of it ; and , the affair wore gradually off my mind ; for , he soon went away , somewhere to school , and we had heard nothing of him , for many months -- And Lydia -- Ah , that blossom had been breathed upon . 
There was Hammond . 
He told me , plainly , that the woman who married me , would die -- die , of a broken heart . 
He told me , too , that I was jealous . 
But he did not mean that I was watchful , or suspicious . 
No ; he knew me better . 
He only knew , that , what the world called an innocent freedom -- if permitted by my wife -- would be the death of me . 
He said so . 
He told her so . 
Hammond the Dwarf ... Sammy Kelly ... Confoundedly scared ... Apparition ... Unfinished sentence ... Hammond 's Temper ... Patience ... Strength ... Courage ... Self possession ... Readiness . 
I havealready spoken of Hammond the Dwarf . 
The moment that he saw Sammy , he started ; and , when we were alone , he told me that he thought it was Hammond the Dwarf . 
This gave me comfort ; and , I determined to see it ; for my cousin promised to bring it about ; but , though we went twice near the place , and saw all the rest of the family , we always missed Hammond . 
I kept my eyes rivetted upon Hammond , -LRB- for it was he -RRB- and I was amazed at his manly air ; it was thoughtful and old ; and when he spoke , -LRB- though he was but thirteen -RRB- I found my father listening to him , with great earnestness ; nay , Elizabeth I saw , more than once , looking at him , not as if she hated , or loathed him -- and , when I saw that , the tears came into my eyes . 
It had that effect ; Sammy began to show signs of intelligence , that startled me ; but , it was always , except to Hammond , a wicked , mischievous intelligence ; nay , such was the incessant activity of Hammond , that he soon led him to play and exercise ; and he grew healthy in his appearance ; and began to learn his book , heartily . 
And , one day , -LRB- they had grown really attached to each other -- a proof to me , then , not of the humanity of either , but of a hellish affinity , in their nature ; it will give you some notion of Hammond 's strength , and presence of mind ;-RRB- we were all in the water together . 
Hammond swam with such prodigious swiftness and force ; being , in the shape of his body and limbs , very like a frog -- that he made the water foam all over his shoulders . 
I rushed out , like a mad creature , and fell upon them ; but the more cowardly Hammond never stirred a limb : and kept playing about , with Sammy at his side , or upon his back , like one long armed ape transporting another , till he was weary and then , he came out ; dressed himself leisurely ; and helped Sammy into his clothes , taking no notice , whatever , of the boys . 
But Hammond stepped before me . 
`` No , master William , '' he said , -- `` I shall take care of your brother . 
I saw Hammond 's eye glance about , rapidly , as if in search of something , -- at last , it was rivetted a moment . 
-- heaven only knows , how he got there so soon -- his long arms were twined about the neck of the largest boy of the whole ; and down , he lugged him to the earth . 
The others rushed upon him ; but Sammy , I declare I began to love the creature for a moment -- he flew in among them ; squalling , and biting , and scratching ; kicking and cuffing ; tooth and nail ; and I was just putting my hand to the yoke , when lo ! 
It was immeasurably ridiculous -- three or four were constantly rolling upon the grass together ; and Hammond was straddling about , among them , like some great , strong , gentle , lubberly , good natured beast , amusing itself with pulling and pawing about his enemies . 
I stood and laughed heartily , when I saw his good natured face ; and all the boys joined at last -- and the whole affair was quieted without the shedding of one drop of blood . 
I remembered how carefully he had handled the boys , as if he were really afraid of hurting them ; and laughing every now and then , when he received a blow , just as if it were all in play -- but never returning it . 
But no -- he could notbe a fool . 
No boy talked like Hammond . 
No boy was so universally loved and laughed at -- as Hammond . 
His strength , too , was prodigious -- the greater no doubt , from his education in the woods ; for , I have seen him run up a smooth , blasted tree , like some wild animal . 
This Hammond soon put a stop to . 
But , one day , a large dog carried his encroachment a little too far -- he bit Sammy . 
-- if Hammond did not run down the roof , where he had just gone for a kite , -- at the first cry of Sammy -- like a wild cat to her young . 
Hammond stopped , and looked at him : and even I -- I trembled at his look . 
The boy did not dare to approach ; but contented himself with calling off the dog , and , as soon as he could breathe , provoking him at Hammond . 
Hammond crouched down , and watched the dog , with an incessant eye ; and hands rapid as light , while it barked and leaped at his face ; and at last , sprang at his throat . 
The next moment , there was a quick yell -- Hammond had caught the dogby the throat ; then , by the hinder legs -- it was quicker than thought -- he swung him round , twice or three times ; then dashed out his brains -- aye , broke his skull into shivers , and spattered his brains out against the pump ! 
So much for his strength and readiness . 
Now for one example , among hundreds , of his presence of mind . 
That never deserted him -- I have been in a boat with him -- in a carriage -- in the extremest peril ; nothing ever seemed to alarm him . 
I have known him to start from a sound sleep , at the cry of fire in the room , -- or murder ; and go as composedly and thoughtfully to work , as if he had been expecting it . 
It startled me , then ; but it has amazed me since , when I have compared the operation of his mind with that of grown men , who are thought instantaneous and electrical . 
-- when Hammond put his hand over my mouth , and prevented me . 
I had forgot Hammond ; and had only heard of him , now and then , as remarkably addicted to his books , and very formidable in disputation . 
happened to me ; and , on my return , I found Hammond -- not no-not yet -- not yet . 
could I be deceived -- Hammond the dwarf ! 
How came he there ! 
what was he ! 
`` Hammond the dwarf ; '' was the reply . 
`` Hammond , '' said I -- it almost choked me , to pronounce his name . 
It was you , Hammond , you , that destroyed me . 
I could not brush off the tears , then -- no -- though once , a drop , from the eyes of Hammond , had been to me , like distillation , from the limbs of a gibbetted man -- a murderer , hung up to the weeping of midnight dews ; and the wailing of November winds . 
`` Ask me no questions , now '' -- said Hammond -- `` we must not suffer you to be agitated . 
He left me ; but , I could not sleep . 
I called her to me ; and soon learnt , to my mortification , that I had been watched , by the abused Hammond , in darkness , day after day , night after night , when people were dying , all about me , of a pestilential disorder ; that his own life had nearly fallen a sacrifice to his watchfulness over me ; that he was the admiration of all the household ; that , I had passed for his brother ; notwithstanding that , in my lucid intervals , I had called upon his name , and cursed him , with the most fearful imprecations ; for all that was natural , to the bereaved of understanding , who are always most inveterate , to their nearest and dearest friends . 
The next day , I saw Hammond , and pressed his hand . 
He was very much disturbed . 
`` William , '' said he , `` in one word -- one word is enough -- tell me what were your designs upon Caroline -- innocent , or guilty ? '' 
It was Hammond ; but something , I know not what , had grown upon his broad forehead , and great eyes , that carried authority with it . 
His mouth was beautiful ; and teeth , the finest in the world ; even in his boy-hood . 
But , his nostrils were wide , and blood-coloured ; like those of a race horse -- lenoting extraordinary vigour ; and his head was altogether too large for his body . 
His right arm was in a sling ; and , he halted , worse than ever , in his walk . 
I measured him , steadily , with my eyes ; looked into his very heart ; bore hisgaze , so intrepidly , that hiseyes filled with the effort . 
`` Will you believe my bare word , Hammond ? 
`` I will , '' said he , promptly . 
His countenance never altered . 
He was gone . 
I heard no more from him , for three days . 
At the end of that time , he brought a young man to me , pale as death , whom I instantly recognised to to be the person , of whom , nearly a year before , I had been rather jealous . 
Hammond led him to my bed side ; and immediately left the room . 
`` You know the object of my visit , I suppose , '' said he , to me . 
-LRB- He was a good deal embarrassed . -RRB- 
`` Car -- Car -- no , I can not pronounce hername -- I have wronged you , and am sorry for it , '' said he . 
I said nothing ; but my eyes told him , what I thought of him ; and I soon found that my hands were cramped with my effort to suppress my passion ; -- and that I had grappled the sheets , as I would , the throat of a wild beast ; and was holding them yet , till my bones ached . 
`` I allude to the chamber -- when -- O , Mr. Adams , it is to you , that I owe these tears -- but for you -- '' It was some minutes before he could speak ; and I began to find a little glimmering upon the past ; some coherency between my recollection of the chamber , and pistol -- `` If I understand you rightly , '' said I -- `` you allude to -- no matter what -- is the story abroad ? '' 
`` Did I shoot Hammond ? '' 
He was wounded in the breast -- you perceive that his arm is in a sling now -- you shattered the arm . 
The whole town took up the affair ; and you were sent to the hospital , where Hammond has attended you , night and day . 
`` Hammond . '' 
`` Hammond ! 
-- he answered -- looking at me with compassion , and great alarm , as if he thought me relapsing . 
`` And have you heard nothing -- nothing , '' said he -- in a whisper , as if -- I know not what ; but , -- for a moment , I felt as if my own heart had been buried alive -- the words , even of his whispering , fell one , one by one , upon it , like wet clods . 
He took my hand . 
`` Man , '' he said , `` man ! 
-- he said -- `` She watch over you ! 
Hammond came , soon after ; he was thunderstruck , at my appearance . 
said he , `` Who has done this ? '' 
I arose -- took his hand ; and moved toward the door . 
William , '' said he , kindly , `` what ails you ? 
-- I shall be tempted to wrench him , joint from joint , the next time that we meet '' I laid my hand upon his arm -- it was the wounded arm . 
He shrunk -- and then -- O ! 
he continued , contracting his brows , with pain . 
`` Yes , yes -- '' I answered , convulsively -- dead or alive , I willsee her . 
he replied . 
I looked upon him , for a moment , like a wild beast , I am sure . 
He saw them return . 
`` Down with your black blood , William Adams ; '' he said . 
said he , resolutely , placing himself before me . 
I would have stabbed him to the heart -- crushed him to death , if I could ; but , when I threw myself upon him , with my heart strings tightened to snapping ; and my blood-vessels all distended to bursting -- he baffled me , as you would , an infant ; and , when I had come to my senses , I stood before him , weeping , like a spoilt child , with shame , and indignation . 
`` O , Hammond -- Hammond ! '' 
She is sick , Hammond ; I know that she is . 
If she die -- she will haunt you -- and , I -- O , I know not what I should do -- but that -- I never shall forgive you -- O , let me see her -- let me see her , dear Hammond -- for the love of Jesus ! '' 
And then , we had a long , long journey , on foot ; and Hammond 's voice , with a tone of authority , I heard , several times , afar off , giving orders ; and , at last , I was sitting in a miserable hovel ; broken chairs , tables , and other furniture were all about ; as if vessels had been shipwrecked there ; and , there was nothing , that I had ever seen before , in such a place ; but , altogether , a kind of shattered combination , as if a noble dwelling had been wrecked , somewhere , afar off , and the furniture washed upon the beach . 
My poor eyes ached , sadly ; and the room was full of a thick smoke , dashed , here and there , with a thin , fitful , blueish blazing , very brilliant ; but , very trying to the eyes ; and the countenances there , appeared hovering and floating about me ; and the statue of Hammond , unearthly . 
My breathing startled Hammond , who came to me ; and in that voice of unutterable power , which no man living could hear unmoved , bid me prepare myself . 
I heard no answer ; but the breathing of Hammond was then suspended , for a moment , as if he were listening ; and then he laid his hand upon mine . 
said Hammond , with a little laugh , `` creditors -- what ! 
thought I ; `` not Hezekiah Anson -- O , no , not Hezekiah '' -- But he went on . 
She knew me , immediately ; shrieked twenty times , without stopping ; and put her delicate arms around my neck , and sobbed aloud ; and laughed and cried on my bosom . 
Hammond . 
Anecdotes of him ... Vanity . 
And Hammond too ; he knelt down at my bed side ; and there was something of a grander character in hisworship . 
said I. `` Speak to me , Hammond . 
`` I pray you , Hammond ; remember that I am not a lawyer . 
`` I do not rightly comprehend you , Hammond . 
Suppose that A contracts with B , to pay him one thousand dollars , in sixty days -- is A to pay him absolutely , come what will ? '' 
`` Yes -- but that , lawyer Hammond , you will admit , would depend upon a writtencontract , into which the law itself , was formally and substantially , if not literally incorporated `` And beside -- '' said Elizabeth . 
one at a time , if you please , '' said Hammond , veryearnestly , but smiling . 
`` But you forget ; '' said I -- thinking that I had him , sure enough . 
The eyes of Hammond streamed fire . 
`` Thank you , '' said he ; `` thank you , Miss Adams . 
Hammond smiled -- `` upon my word , '' said he , `` you fall , very naturally , into our technical phraseology . 
He is a great and good man , Mr. Hammond . '' 
answered Hammond , with enthusiasm , `` and that is the reason , why I reprobate such absurdity as this . 
`` Perhaps , '' said Elizabeth , timidly , `` perhapsI have not rightly comprehended you , Mr. Hammond . 
Hammond snorted , like a race-horse -- protruded his bald head , half across the table , in astonishment ; and his eyes dilated to twice their usual magnitude , while she continued . 
said Hammond , after a silence , of at least ten minutes ; `` thatis passing strange ! 
He arose , when he had said this ; threw back his head , and trod , less like a dwarf , before her , than I had ever seen him . 
It was not possible , to hear Hammond converse on a subject , that roused him , without , notwithstanding his cold , haughty , arrogant denunciation of great men , without feeling as if you had stood upon the hills , and seen giants wrestling , and pitching the bar . 
Every movement of his intellect was so prompt , bold , and athletick . 
So pleased was I , indeed , that , after he had gone , I renewed the subject , with Elizabeth . 
-- `` Why , '' said Mrs H -- , to him , `` why did that lady listen to you , so breathlessly ? 
`` Because I astonished them , '' said he , in his calm , natural way . 
`` No -- '' she answered , smiling , at the oddity of his reply , and startled too , at his boldness -- `` perhaps not . 
`` No , pardon me , Madam , '' said he , `` not a littleloud ; I am veryloud . 
`` Mighty powers , '' he cried out , `` what a play of langs ! '' 
`` Another man , '' said I , `` would have talked , if he could , all the while ; just as Hammond did ; thereby , showing that he knewhis own powers of entertainment ; thereby proving , that he believedhimself , to be worthy of engrossing all the conversation . 
Yet , he would never have ownedit -- never have said it . 
Hammond would . 
There is the difference between Hammond 's vanity , and that of other men . '' 
Hammond ... Friendship ... Glimpse of Emma ... Adventure ... Hammond is wounded ... Surgeon ... A poet ... His character ... Letter ... Development of character ... Sensibility to disgrace ... Rebuke ... Reconciliation . 
Thenext day , Hammond led me out , through the borders of the city ; and amused me with such a variety of information , anecdote , and wit , that I was seized with a strange , troubled , anxious admiration of him . 
-- Where had he acquired it ? 
No -- he had been less among men , than I ; though older , by two or three years . 
-- by studying his own nature . 
I looked at him with amazement . 
Touch what theme I would , he had always something to say upon it , that was new , and worth repeating . 
I found too , that , what he said , was said , in a manner so peculiarly his own , so simple , so energetick ! 
His manner was often sudden , vehement -- abrupt , -- pleasant for a moment or two , but not longer -- yet so indignant , vivid , burning and sarcastick , that I felt an unaccountable sense of his superiority oppressing me . 
-- Go where he would , there seemed to be no thought of his ugliness , even in the boys . 
Every body saluted him , respectfully . 
But he had no companions , I observed , among the youthful . 
Two or three middle-aged men , and several aged ones , came out to meet him ; and stood and held his hands , as if he had been one of them , while we went along . 
I had never heard Hammond repeat a line of it before ; and I verily believe , that he did not remember twenty lines , of all that he had ever written . 
`` So too , in the moral word , '' continued Hammond . 
`` Nay '' -- -LRB- after a pause -- during which , he uncovered his bald head -- and lifted up his large , full eyes to the sky , as if he were overheard there -- and was not ashamed , nor afraid to be overheard there -RRB- -- `` even with God himself , it is altogether the same . 
At such a time too ; and , hardly at any other , was there a certain unity of expression all over the face of Hammond ; a vast harmony -- his large white teeth , and red mouth -- and broad nostrils were actually sublime . 
In fact , Hammond the Dwarf , was made to look up -- everlastingly up -- at the sky , or into the face of his Maker . 
I sprang forward -- but was withheld by Hammond . 
said he . 
Just as he said this , a young woman leaned out of a window , that we were passing , to fasten the blinds . 
-- said Hammond , imperatively . 
he cried , leaping into the middle of the crowd , that gave away on all sides , some in terrour , and some in mockery -- and facing the ruffian . 
Every face was turned to his . 
Every look was upon Hammond . 
He had not moved his eyes from the face of the man , for nearly a minute . 
said he , at last . 
Instead of replying , the scoundrel raised his whip , and , for a moment , seemed to menace Hammond . 
Heonly smiled I should have cut his throat , upon the spot -- but heonly smiled . 
I had raised my arm , and -- but Hammond was already at work . 
I looked at him -- he was black in the face . 
He stood holding upon the naked and brawny wrist of the other -- who was struggling with him -- and appeared searching for something , in his side pocket , at the same time . 
`` Donot strike her again '' -- said Hammond -- `` donot . 
cried Hammond -- biting his lips -- and knitting his brows -- to the stupid girl -- `` Begone ! '' 
She shook , and obeyed him . 
-- said Hammond , plucking at his arm . 
That other step was taken ; and , ere you could have clapped your hands thrice , I heard the lash strike the limbs of Hammond ; and saw him , with his teeth clenched -- and the blood issuing from his nostrils , kneeling upon the breast of the other . 
I plucked Hammond from the fellow ; but he had hardly life enough to stand up ; and the blood was in a little puddle , on the earth where he ell . 
Hammond put his hand to his side -- and my first thought was , that he had burst a blood vessel ; but no -- he was only wounded . 
He had been stabbed in the scuffle . 
The man was taken up ; and soon gave symptoms of life ; -- and Hammond sent for a carriage ; took me into it , called upon the surgeon himself ; and submitted to inspection on the spot . 
Such was his coolness , or insensibility , that he continued the conversation , in which we had been interrupted in the same tone , just as if nothing had happened -- till the business was over . 
said he . 
`` My dear Neck or Nothing -- leave me alone with the good man , a moment ; '' said Hammond . 
`` Tell me , '' said Hammond , `` plainly ; and without any shuffling , whether you would advise me , to be prepared for the worst ? 
answered Hammond ; his beautiful mouth curling -- and nostrils dilating . 
`` I was saying , '' said Hammond , as soon as they had gone -- `` that I could not brook acquaintances . 
He turned , and smiled ; and ashe turned , he caught a view of his own countenance , in the mirror ; it darkened . 
said he , glancing at me . 
I understood him ; it went to my heart ; but , I had presence of mind enough to reply , in his own words , just as he had used them , years and years before -- striking my breast , as I did so , just in his own impressive , strange manner . 
He grasped my hands -- the swarthy red of his bald forehead , vanished -- vanished , like a shadow ; his frown went off -- but , he remained deeply affected , for a minute or two . 
`` I thank you , '' said he ; `` it is true . 
So he had . 
Had he not ? 
He could not have saidso , as he did , if he had not . 
`` Some day or other , you may meet that woman again -- '' said he ; `` and then , you will remember these very sensations ; and imagine that they were sympathetick and ominous ! 
Hammond smiled benevolently , compassionately , at first ; and then , while I watched his face , it took a slow expression of pity , then of scorn -- and then of bitterness . 
`` Yes , an author , '' continued Hammond , in the same tone . 
I lifted my eyes , when I had finished the letter , and started at the intenseness of Hammond 's gaze -- our faces almost touched . 
His forehead was wrought , his countenance lighted up -- and there was a cold , intrepid , searching manner , in his aspect ; without passion ; without tumult , vehemence or enthusiasm , that made one feel strangely , very strangely , at the heart . 
You will recollect that he was remarkably pale -- with very bright eyes -- a profusion of loose hair , except just upon the top of his head , where he was quite bald -- so that , his head looked larger ; and his forehead much broader than it was . 
The natural expression of his face too , was very severe -- but the settled one , at this time , was an artificial sternness and fixedness . 
said he . 
`` Yes , '' I replied ; -- wondering at the disproportionate size of his head . 
cried the creature , leaping upon his feet , and halting up to me -- `` there is my hand!from this hour , let ourfriendship begin . 
He rung the bell , and ordered the servant to get him a shirt . 
By heaven , there was a red and blue welt , where the whip had buckled round him , that girdled his waist , like a swollen serpent . 
`` I 'll tell you what , William Adams , '' said he , after a moment of deep seriousness -- `` there is something wrong in your heart about this . 
`` Well then , '' said he , `` all that I can say is , that you are a d -- d incomprehensible fellow ; and most of a lunatick , when the world think you least of one . 
cried Hammond -- you are of the gentry that , `` You appear indignant . 
His voice went through my heart ; and there was a deep movement , an inward agitation there , as if he had been the first visiter , to its bestplace . 
I embraced him -- and forgot , as I did , that he was so cursedly ugly of shape -- that -- no matter , let the dogs bark at such men -- they are regal creatures , within their own dominions , of magnificent stature and bearing -- wherever their souls have room to stretch their limbs , and walk abroad . 
It was on one of these occasions , that I saw Hammond , who had been a silent spectator of the scene , for a long time , without opening his mouth , suddenly set upon by a brutal wretch , a little in liquor , who , in retreating from a pair of wrestlers , trod upon Hammond 's foot . 
Some little altercation followed -- during which , the man was too abusive almost for human patience ; -- till , at last , Hammond had become the laughing stock of all the boys about . 
Nothing but this -- Hammond buckled his long , lithe arms , with the swiftness of a black snake , about his waist -- knuckledhis back , till his head and heels almost touched ; and laid him down , gently , upon the grass -- amid the most deathlike stillness that I ever saw . 
But Hammond merely put him down , as if he pitied him . 
Yet , I was weak ; and Hammond had the strength of a ring-tailed panther , or an ourang outang , whom by the way , he much resembled : nay , I have seen him wrestle with a bear , and prevail too -- almost to the tearing of the animal 's jaws asunder -- though it was not quite grown , I confess . 
eaf292v2.n3 -LSB- 3 -RSB- I have since found a copy of these lines -- you will recollect that they were the last -- the very last that Hammond ever wrote -- and written , I am assured , precisely as it is related above ; and , in consequence of much persuasion . 
Wallace has made the publick so familiar with his imitations of Hammond , that , even to my own eye , theylook like imitations of him . 
Grouping ... Mrs. H -- ... Elizabeth ... A family ... Disputation ... Modesty ... Hammond ... Miss E -- ... Well bred People ... Old School and New ... Shakspeare ... Friendship ... Mr. D. ... Hamlet . 
`` Pray , '' said Elizabeth , to Hammond , as we all sat together , the very first evening that he appeared below , his lovely hostess , in a loose wrapper , and in a most captivating humour . 
said Hammond , interrupting her . 
He was touched -- I could perceive that -- for his lips trembled , and his brows worked , as he replied . 
-- cried Hammond -- tell me , now , honestly -- you 've heard that before -- hav ` nt you ? '' ' 
`` I could have sworn it , '' said Hammond , `` by your blundering about the butterso long . 
I looked at Hammond with astonishment . 
How came it that he was such a favourite , and with beautiful women too ? 
-- He never flattered then . 
He was abrupt , loud , and imperious . 
Yet they bore with him , ugly as he was . 
They seemed to forget that he was a dwarf . 
How natural he was ! 
-- with what a heart , he said every thing , even the most trivial ! 
Where had he learnt to trifle so gracefully ? 
Yet hedid it ; and there was such an agreeable raciness , pungency , flavour and juiciness in what he said -- that indeed . 
`` Upon my word , '' said Hammond , `` I feel a presentiment , that the Frenchman , to whom you were so rude -- or the lawyer , whom by the way , you do not understand , -- the creature of your abhorrence and detestation -- will -- . '' 
`` Allow me , '' said Hammond , turning about and facing her -- `` allow me , to do that man justice . 
It provesthat you do notthink him contemptible , when his very name disturbs you '' -- -LRB- `` with passion , '' he would have added -- but -- he stopped short -- and his eyes dwelt , for a moment , upon her face , so steadily , that the colour mounted there . -RRB- 
`` If you knew -- '' `` I do know it , '' continued Hammond , interrupting her . 
said Hammond , with great dignity . 
I understood him ; and the blue eyes of Mrs. Honeywell , dashed abroad for a moment , with a sort of ma licious pleasantry . 
Hammond was in the opposite corner ; I , in the middle , so situated , that I could see the working of every countenance about me , without being seen . 
First , there was Hammond , his great , pale , swarthy face , under the shadow of the mantle piece -- his broad knotted forehead written all over , with phenomena , like the sky -- with the annals of God : his long lithe arms , folded and intertwined , as if there were no bones in them ; and one of his ugly legs drawn up so , that , at times , his knee almost touched his chin . 
And once too , when Hammond was in all the heat and hurry of his mind , during an accident , which I shall just mention . 
I caught her eyes rivetted upon him , with an expression that alarmed me -- I know not why : -- I should have said that it was -- like jealousy , if Elizabeth had not been my sister , -- or envy , perhaps ; but I do not know . 
Hammond too -- had he seen it ? 
-- his teeth were set , -- his glittering white teeth , and his red lip , writhed bitterly -- But -- let me describe the others . 
-- Everything that Hammond uttered , fell , as if it were weighty and hot , upon a heart of wax ; and sunk deeper and deeper -- at every sob -- till -- till -- no matter for the rest . 
You understand me -- till theirmost worthless tablets became heavy with histhought , without their suspecting it -- pregnant with his spirit , believing it their own , -- rich , with the melted ore that hehad poured into them , with a prodigal hand , without -LRB- for they saw that it did not impoverish him -RRB- -- thankfulness , that it enriched them . 
I smiled , and spoke of it afterward , to Hammond . 
`` You can not easily understand that woman ; '' said he . 
Nay -- in the very heat of his discourse , while she was touching it , just as she would a pet toad -- and whispering about it , to one of the ladies , Hammond let it lie there , just as if it had belonged to somebody else . 
Mrs. Honey well , as I have already said , with a spiteful disposition to bring Hammond out , had begun to lavish her playfulness all about , like one flinging light and vapour from a censer . 
Hammond sat , thoughtfully , studying the countenance of the child , that I mentioned , as if , already , he could see her red lips blackening ; her delicate transparency sullied , with the calamities of life : -- the fierce light of his orbs , waned , quivered -- and the lids filled ; but , just then , his thought was forced back , by a violent convulsion , like one that starts broad awake , from a terrible dream , by the stopping of his own heart -- just as if a ball had passed through it . 
said he , `` that quotation . '' 
Mrs. Honeywell had just been quoting a phrase that struck on his ear -- even in its abstraction , like a knife . 
-- said Mrs. Honeywell , -- colouring to the eyes -- with pity and consfernation -- `` I understand you , '' continued Hammond -- leaning toward her , and smiling , -- `` I am not mad -- yet , I would undertake to write a play , in forty-eight hours -- after I had got a few materials ready , -- that should pass for Shakspeare 's . '' 
She was ashamed and terrified , at his earnestness ; and , while she blushed for him , to her very heart -- she would have prevented him from exposing himself . 
But no -- he repeated it . 
It was partly true -- you know whom I mean -- I could have lacerated him for it . '' 
-- said Hammond , in a voice , that came from his heart -- `` and nothing saved him from it , but -- my respect for his daughter , and the interference of Mr. Morton . 
reiterated Hammond , evidently , I thought , to bring her to battle -- `` aye -- and I could have shortened his life , greatas he is -- for ten years -- I know it -- I feel it -- he knows it . '' 
-- repeated Mrs. Honeywell -- the blood rushing over her forehead again -- the veins all swelling ; and her agitated hands rattling upon the table -- do you know who he is , and what ? '' 
`` A man , '' continued Mrs. Honeywell , that has educated his daughters -- so -- look at them -- . '' 
How know you that he did not leave his country -- perhaps -- `` for his country 's good '' -- suppose that some one should come to you , and tell you that I see that you are excited -- that he -- . '' 
`` No '' -- said Hammond proudly -- `` I know nothing at all against the man . 
`` You have had a severe trial , '' said Hammond , hobbling out his chair , and offering her his ugly claw -- `` a very severe one : but you ought to thank me for it -- you were never so eloquent ; and , as I told you -- your unwillingness to hear me open my lips against your friend , looked suspicious . 
I turned , and Hammond repeated the question . 
said he , `` you look distressed . '' 
As he said this , his eye flashed upon the distant white wall -- when -- Oh ! 
he saw what had caused their meriment and confusion . 
Hammond set his teeth -- his eyes dilated -- his lips writhed -- he put his locked hands to his forehead , for a moment -- a mortal paleness followed -- the disorder of his heart was soon gone -- his lips parted , and quivered -- and , when he took down his hands , there was a melancholy lustre , as of a noble nature , outraged to tears , under the lashes . 
`` You had been kinder , Madam , '' said he , in a lower tone , and with an altered front -- all its lordliness had gone -- he stood , like a broken hearted man -- `` had you been more sincere . 
`` I do not wonder , '' continued Hammond , with a voice , like one parleying with a spirit , at his very elbow . 
He then went to Mrs. Honeywell , whose face was buried in her hands . 
Hammond started -- was silent for a moment , as if struck with a sudden pain -- and then answered . 
-- Hammond -- Mr. Hammond ! 
`` Yes -- I am willing to finishit , I assure you ; for , I am anxious to convince you -- and I am surethat I could , '' said Hammond , to Mrs. Honeywell . 
`` Madam ; '' said Hammond , leaning toward her , his large , black , glittering eyes rivetted upon her ; and his hand thrust into his bosom , up to the elbow , as into hot embers , in search of his own heart . 
How would you bless him ! 
-- to diein preserving hislife -- to -- '' `` She was silent -- and her deep eyes were clouded with passionate emotion : -- and Hammond continued , in a voice of such unutterable pathos , depth and mournfulnesss , that , when he had done -- we all drew one long breath together -- and were silent for many minutes . 
`` Suppose another case '' -- said he . 
Would you not bless him ! 
-- said Hammond . 
She began to explain , but he interrupted her . 
There was a general shock -- as if a thunderbolt had exploded in the ceiling -- and his voice were a trumpet call . 
Now , said the critick , the words in italick are only a stage direction -- which , in transcribing , came to be incorporated with the text -- and mean that Hamlet puts the pictureinto his pocket ! 
he cries -- `` a diadem to be put in a king 's pocket -- What a pocket his majesty must have ! '' 
`` O , the ring , '' said Hammond , bowing -- `` I wait the report -- this battle of the eyes over ; it is a part of yourduty to give in the killed and wounded -- but what said Elizabeth ? '' 
-- said Mrs. Honeywell , tapping Hammond on the arm , -- `` I understand the drift -- you have given us words , and kept the jewelryto yourself . '' 
Mr. Hammond , I think you havegot the baguenow . '' 
Hammond 's life ... Duel ... Elizabeth ... The Church ... Reflections ... Merchandise ... Failure ... Character of partners ... Persecution ... Trials ... Mr. G. ... Mr T. . 
`` Pray , '' said I , as soon as we were sufficiently alone together -- it was a week after this conversation , that is related in the preceding chapter -- `` Pray Hammond , tell me about the duel . '' 
`` Hammond ! '' 
`` Hammond ! 
Hammond ! '' 
`` That paper , said I , -LRB- Hammond is speaking , -RRB- handing him the assignment , and laying my hat upon the desk -- contains a relinquishment of all our property , for the benefit of our creditors . 
Hammond continues his narrative ... Insolvency ... Mr. Galligan ... A noble heart ... Another ... Another ! 
Itwas after midnight , when Hammond concluded the conversation , related in the last chapter ; but the following night , he renewed the subject . 
I was startled at the convulsive , agitated , deep tone of Hammond , as he concluded these words ; and looked him up on the face . 
Never shall I forget his expression -- never!It was just as if his great heart were half crushed , all at once , under the thought ; as if it were worse than death , to have been suspected of any thing wrong , mercenary , or dishonourable . 
echoed Hammond , grinding his teeth , while the sweat stood upon his lips ; and his eyes grew blood-shot , like those of a chafed catamount -- and a bitter smile went over them . 
said I , unable to keep down my wrath -- he trembled -- `` Old man ! '' 
`` To jail with him -- to jail , he shall go , '' cried he , inarticulate with passion . 
`` Was that right , Hammond ? '' 
`` Drawon me , William , '' said he -- `` draw on me ! '' 
and looked , as if I might have drawn on him , for his heart 's blood . '' 
He hemmed and hawed ; and adjusted , and re-adjusted his legs ; without speaking . '' 
said he . 
I cried ; startled at his abruptness ; -- `` money!What do you mean ? '' 
If you do , say so ; '' he repeated . 
Here Hammond paused for a while ; and I took up the conversation , and questioned him . 
`` You are mistaken , Hammond . '' 
`` You are mad , Hammond . 
I saw that he was perfectly sincere ; and yet , it seemed to me , hardly possible , that one could disdain a gift like that -- and I said so . 
He laughed heartily . 
He stopped , and looked at his watch -- `` Take a bed in the next room , William , will you ? 
and , to-morrow , I will finish , '' said he . 
Letter from W -- ... Remarks of Hammond ... Naturalwriting ... Vanities ... Doctrine ... Illustration ... Poetry ... System of study ... Law ... Languages ... Mode of teaching them , reprobated ... Vanity ... Matters and things in general ... Ballast . 
Wewere scarcely seated , the next morning , at the table , when the post man brought a handful of letters , and laid them before Hammond . 
`` Yes '' -- said he ; `` and one of the least profitable , in the world ; but I shall be done with it . 
He opened it ; and , as he read , I saw his countenance change -- like the tablet of a camera obscura : -- every passion -- every feeling , every emotion of hisheart , perhaps of the human heart , went over his broad forehead , and beautiful mouth , till he threw down the letter , at last -- dashed off a tear , with the back of his hand -- and cried out -- `` Read it -- read it , William . 
cried Hammond -- `` it is ` nt so , -- he does ` nt call it an affectionateletter . '' 
`` Your affectionate letter '' -LRB- I heard his teeth grind , as , I read again ; but I went on -RRB- `` my dear Hammond , with no common emotion . 
It little matters what the language of friendship be , so that it bethe language of friendship ; and I am sure that every word , in this letter -- -LRB- `` alluding to mine , I suppose , '' said Hammond , his dark , melancholy eye , dilating and flashing fire , as he spoke -RRB- -- breathes it , in sincerity and truth . 
growled Hammond , dashing his arm athwart the table , and sweeping a pile of rubbish to the floor . 
I looked at him for explanation ; but he shook his head , impatiently ; and I went on . 
-- whispered Hammond . 
said Hammond , smilingly -- `` talented!lady Morgan -- fudge . '' 
Flattery , if you will have it so , has made me what I am ; -- '' Hammond groaned . 
said Hammond . 
`` Well balanced , '' said Hammond , rather inaudibly ; and with a sneering tone . 
-- more of the heart -- if you will , '' said Hammond , impatiently -- `` that sentence is too beautiful , by half , for one in humiliation . '' 
said Hammond . 
said Hammond . 
`` Written to get in the word mockery -- one of his favourites -- he never believed any such thing , '' said Hammond . 
cried Hammond , locking his hands together -- `` that gives me hope ! 
I looked up -- his face twitched , shivered all over , and his eyes were full of moisture . 
-- Who are they , that build up large houses , and set forth splendid feasts ; and think it no uncommon humiliation , to turn the eye upon starving poverty -- '' `` He means commonhumiliation ; '' said Hammond . 
`` With a wealth had better been left out -- beautifulwithout that : '' said Hammond . 
I looked at him , in astonishment ; so coldly critical , so utterly awake , to any inaccuracy , though agitated to death , by his feeling ! 
`` Most of all , my dear Hammond ; who are to be taught wisdom ? 
-- contemptible -- '' said Hammond . 
-- worthy of Dr. Johnson himself , '' articulated Hammond , through his glittering , shut teeth . 
said Hammond ; `` that is natural -- that is the unstudied language of a full heart . '' 
Every unfledged babe of divinity -- '' `` Unfledged babe of divinity -- nonsense -- say school boy '' -- continued Hammond , in the tone of one , muttering to himself . 
`` Awkward -- '' said Hammond . 
-- `` The truth is , the more that I have been thrown upon my own resources , the more palpably Necessity , with all her dire train of shapes and spectres , have started up -- '' `` Hasstarted up : '' said Hammond . 
`` Herself ; '' said Hammond . 
`` Go on , go on ; '' said he -- `` never mind what I say . 
`` Meaning himself ; '' said Hammond -- `` badly expressed . '' 
said Hammond -- `` very!I know something of that blasted herbage -- the vegetation of the wilted heart -- go on -- go on . '' 
There was a depth and mournfulness in his tone , then , that made me stop , and throw my eyes upon his countenance -- it was very solemn ; but , I obeyed . 
cried Hammond ; `` popularlove -- pshaw ! 
cried Hammond -- reverently -- `` if . 
-- that ispoetry ; '' cried Hammond , locking his hands fervently ; and his delighted eyes glared , it appeared to me , for moment , like great carbuncles , with a coloured fire . 
Yet , I can not but rejoice , that it has so been : even from such wrecks , we may gather much instruction for the voyage of our lives ; this , at least , they may teach us -- to avoid the shallow and miseries of others : -LRB- full of confusion -- said Hammond :-RRB- and to hold an onward course , undisturbed by the past , and mindful of the future only . '' 
said Hammond , inwardly . 
`` Tautology , '' said Hammond . 
cried Hammond -- `` thatis the language of a man . '' 
said Hammond , devoutly . 
I looked up -- his features were agitated -- his nostrils dilated , and red with his breathing , like a race horse , leaping in the wind . 
said he . 
`` Pretty much ; '' he replied , with invincible coolness ; `` I would have a man write as he talks . '' 
`` That phrase again -- it is always in your mouth , Hammond ; what do you mean by it ? '' 
`` Just what I say , '' he replied -- `` I would have a man write , and read and speak , just as he would converse . '' 
Hammond laughed ; -- but answered -- `` then he will writelike a deaf-and-dumb man . 
-- he replied . 
`` Hammond , I will not believe you -- what , the gossiping of the tea tables -- the laboured pleasantry of -- the -- '' `` Stop , William Adams -- breathe a little . '' 
I was much struck with that remark : -- and he continued . 
-- Will not his voice rise -- his nostrils dilate -- his eyes lighten -- his chest heave , when he talksof such things ? 
-- And would you have him , when he comes to speak , and write of them -- take down , and , subdue the glorious colouring of Nature ; -- put her beautiful limbs into the habiliments of fashion ; -- fetter , and lock , and clasp down the giant , wrist and ancle , upon a bed of iron -- lest he should not pigeon wing classically . '' 
I gazed at him with astonishment , and dismay . 
He stared at me , and I repeated the question . 
`` It is ` nt worth it '' -- said he , carelessly ; but , with the air of one , whose unconcern is not affected ; who means precisely what he says ; and does not dream of being doubted . 
`` Really , Hammond , you are an incomprehensible fellow . 
I looked him steadily in the eyes , for a minute , I suppose ; and then , seeing that there was no change , or shadow of change in them , I laughed in his face , very heartily -- but not soheartily , as I could have wished . 
He bore it with perfect good humour . 
`` Look you ; '' said he -- `` you see what I have done . 
said Hammond , ruefully . 
`` What was it ? '' 
`` I was thinking , '' said I , `` that we are strangely alike . '' 
`` I promised to tell you , '' said Hammond , slowly , after a silence of half an hour ; during which , we had set together in his chamber , till it had grown so dark , that we could not see each other 's faces ; and just then , the door suddenly opened . '' 
`` A man entered , and began stirring the fire -- `` leave it , '' said Hammond -- `` begone , and leave it . '' 
echoed Hammond -- `` are you afraid of the dark ? '' 
Was heafraid to let me see his face , while he told it ? 
I was very silent ; and he began . 
`` I promised to tell you , '' said he , in a voice so deep and sepulchral , that I should not have known it , had I heard it in another place ; and then he stopped . 
I waited some minutes -- oppressed with an unaccountable sensation -- to hear it again ; -- and , at last , his breathing had become so loud , as to alarm me . 
`` Hammond ! '' 
said I , going to him , and laying my hand upon his head -- `` dear Hammond -- speak to me -- what ails you ? 
He tore away his locked fingers , from his forehead ; sprung upon his feet , with a cry of horrour ; and pressed my hands , to his heart ; as if he would crush them , bone and joint . 
I could hardly suppress a shriek -- and , I observed , that his palms were wet , as if he had been weeping . 
-- Hammond , the Dwarf ; said I , to myself -- O , no -- it is only sweat , or blood -- it can not be tears . 
`` Hammond ! '' 
I said , again to him , as I really felt , affectionately . 
He attempted to rise -- staggered -- and fell back into his seat . 
`` What ! 
-- was it only you , William ; '' said he , `` only you!Give me your hand ! 
`` Grey spots , my boy ; in the form , too , of a human hand ! '' 
I shuddered at his voice -- and I remembered a strange appearance upon one side of his head , where there were several grey locks , lying amid the jet black hair . 
`` You are disordered , Hammond , '' said I -- `` You have studied , till your nerves are all vibrating with over tension . '' 
`` I am sure , my dear Hammond , '' said I , deeply affected at the manner -- it was so like one trying to drive away sorrow and madness , by an affected hilarity , `` that you are nervous , from excessive application . '' 
`` No -- No , I am not , nervous!Albert Hammond nervous ! 
`` Hammond ! '' 
`` Hammond , '' said I , `` you are mad . '' 
Never before had my heart heaved , in worship , as it did then , while the voice of Hammond arose , louder and louder , in the darkness , like one dreaming in his sleep ; or praying inwardly . 
`` Go on , for mercy sake , dear Hammond , '' said I , `` I could sit , and listen to you , for ever . '' 
`` But why , dear Hammond , '' said I , `` why devote all your faculties to the law ? 
`` Who has a larger fund unappropriated than I . 
Yes , it was the voice of Hammond ; but how different -- my blood tingled with it . 
I was delighted , at the result of my efforts , and determined to keep him , for a time , away from the subject , that had brought us together ; and , if I succeeded , never again , upon this earth , to mention the duel or the hair , in his presence . '' 
`` But how do you manage , '' said I. `` How many first loves can a person have ? '' 
An ugly shape stood frowning , with his face almost touching mine . 
It was Hammond -- but convulsed from head to foot . 
said he , more mildly . 
I -- '' He stopped for a moment ; turned round , facing the sweet moon ; and , crossing his arms over the back of his high chair , sat down , resting his chin upon them . 
I watched every motion -- he would twist and writhe , at such moments , as if he had ` nt a bone in him ; and , oftentimes , I have wondered how he managed to get his legs and arms entangled , as I have seen them , when they were all in a snarl ; knotted and intertwined , like fat serpents . 
He had the faculty too , I have half persuaded myself , of dilating ; or , rather , of extending and contracting them , like earth-worms , at pleasure ; for , I have seen him suddenly start up , and swing his arms about , like a tall man -- and then , bundle them up in his bosom like coiled rattle-snakes . '' 
`` You know , '' said he , slowly , `` that I am not remarkable for personal beauty . 
`` O , no , '' he replied ; `` the women of Byron -- poh ! 
`` But , let me leave it , now . 
As I spoke , the moon broke out , all at once , from the sky , as if she were descending -- shone all over his face ; and I sat , with my hands upraised , to wonder at his countenance . 
It was pale as death ; and his bloodcoloured lips were wet and glittering . 
`` She says that she never can loveyou , Hammond ; that she respects you ; and -- and -- '' `` O , very well , '' said I , quite unconcernedly -- entering the room where she remained , as I spoke -- and addressing myself to her , as if nothing had happened -- `` good night , ladies ! 
A widow ... Perilous affair ... Virginia ... Manners and customs ... Language ... Tandem ... Second first love , of Hammond ... Anecdotes ... Kentucky ... Manners ... Wrath of a wild beast ... Scuffle ... Wm. R. Smiley , etc. etc. ... Affairs of the heart ! 
`` And would you give up your talent ; your inward superiority , Hammond , in exchange for beauty ? '' 
`` Forgive me , Hammond ; O , forgive me , '' said I , for my heart smote me , and I remembered where and by whom , he had been spit upon . 
`` Well , well , Hammond , never mind -- it is your fault . 
He continued -- Hammond , I mean -- pardon the confusion of my narrative . 
`` Loaded , '' said the fellow -- that I had shot -- `` yes , that it was '' -- running his hand into his bosom , and pulling it out , all bloody -- `` see there ! 
I exclaimed -- `` upon my word , Hammond , you are infinitely less of a hero , than I thought you ! '' 
-- I -- '' `` But the duel -- Hammond -- I am weary of holding your pulse . '' 
The duel , at last ... Elizabeth ... Frightful operation of a disordered mind ... Guilt ... Cradle ... Superstition ... Child 's face ... Harper 's Ferry ... Strolling players ... Octavian ... Hammond 's debut ... Emotions ... Variety ... A Lawyer ... No -- not a Lawyer -- a Pettifogger ... Plain dealing ... Adventures ... Political economy ... Licenseand Penaltyin law ... Same thing in reality . 
`` Wehave come now , '' said Hammond , leaning sternly on his hands ; and looking . 
as if there could be no forgiveness , for what he was about to relate . 
His temples were swollen -- he was black in the face -- and his features were like those of a dead man -- immoveable -- while the bones of his hand kept rattling , with an incessant motion , upon the table -- `` we have come now , to the duel . '' 
`` They had all toasted their women , '' said Hammond , abruptly , locking his hands , with a convulsive effort : `` all ! 
`` The name thrilled through and through me , '' said Hammond . 
Thus ended the tale of Hammond ; but the tones of his voice!O , no language can describe them . 
I felt myself constrained to give him my hand , and to press him , in silence , to my heart . 
I did -- and I felt his flesh quiver at the touch ; and contract , as if mine had been the hand of a spectre . 
`` Look here , William Adams , '' said he , lifting his black matted locks ; `` look here ! 
what ails you , Hammond ? '' 
I laid my hand upon his arm ; but , it was too late . 
There was no disputing with him ; and that strange , icy thrill went through all our arteries , at the same moment ; and our eyes filled , and our lips trembled , with horrour and eagerness -- what a strange feeling it is ! 
`` And died ; '' said Hammond . 
`` Let us change the subject ; it is getting dark ; '' said Hammond , peevishly . 
It was really solemn , white there was an apparentcarelessness in it . 
`` It can not surely be , '' said I , to myself , `` that this man is given to such superstition ; '' but still , his manner betokened it too strongly , for me to permit myself , at that time , to investigate the truth . 
During the ramble , -LRB- I love to mention such things -- they go far to show , the character of a man -RRB- we saw a person , at a distance , whom I knew by reputation -- and had heard that a friend of Hammond , had studied with him . 
`` What sort of a fellow is he ? '' 
We were now in sight -- `` release me , for a moment , '' said Hammond , `` I have business with him . '' 
Saying this , he left me , and walked directly over to the other ; a few words passed between them . 
I saw Hammond 's great eyes of a deadly blackness ; and the sound of his voice , was full of deep , inward determination . 
said I -- when he returned -- `` you appeared very much in earnest ; and he is exceedingly disturbed -- see ! 
`` Never mind him , '' said Hammond -- he wo n't come to us -- he knows me , too well . '' 
`` Merely '' -- said Hammond , with great unconcern -- `` never to speak to me again . '' 
Thus was the character of Hammond perpetually unfolding to me ; and , always , like some vast map ; or , rather , tapestry , with a constantly encreasing beauty and proportion . 
Yet , I dwelt upon him , I can not deny it , with a feeling , rather of awe than affection . 
I told him so ; but he smiled , and bade me wait with patience -- that -- if I would wrestle with mydevil , he would , with his . 
`` Mine ! '' 
I could not believe him ; -- but , when he found that I was in downright earnest , -- that I was really astonished at the charge , he laid his two hands upon mine , with a strange solemnity and emphasis , like one conjuring up devils , out of the sea ; -- and bade me `` beware of jealousy . '' 
-- But his eyes filled ; and I began to feel an unaccountable apprehension of myself -- `` Hark ! 
-- My heart stopped for a moment , and then I ran toward the place ; but Hammond had outstripped me : burst into the house ; and stood -- I can not well say how ; -- but , when I entered , I saw a savage looking old man , with eyes like a wild cat , sitting in a dark corner , his face all grown over with grisly hair . 
-- and watching Hammond with such malignity , that I suspected some evil purpose . 
I was right -- he was gradually getting his hand about the hilt of a shoemaker 's knife , behind him . 
I saw a bright , quick , sharp glitter -- but Hammond was two keen for him ; -- he dashed him to the earth , and wrenched the knife from him -- while he was prostrate , frothing and bleeding at the mouth and nostrils . 
-- The monster had been beating a family of women ; his own mother , an aged bed ridden woman ; another , that lived with him ; and a young girl , all as ragged and dirty , as disease and wretchedness could make them . 
He had beaten them , in mere wantonness , because he had fallen , in a state of intoxication , and broken a bottle of whiskey . 
said Hammond , wiping his eyes , many minutes after we had left the house . 
Hammond and Elizabeth ... Explanation ... Quarrel ... Ambition ... Heroick nature ... Elizabeth 's testimony ... Sickness ... Reconciliation ... Atonement . 
Someweeks after the conversation related in the last chapter , I discovered a visible change , in the deportment of Hammond ; and I thought , now and then , that I could perceive a growing intelligence , between him and my sister . 
I watched them ; and , at length , determined to speak to him , about it . 
I sat down and brought him immediately to the point , with feelings , that I can not express . 
I could not bear to think , or imagine it possible , that he had now ; damnation ! 
`` Mr. Hammond , '' said I , `` What do you mean by your attention to Elizabeth ? '' 
`` Hammond ! 
Hammond ! '' 
`` Tell me -- tell me -- Do you -- do -- do -- do you love Hammond ? '' 
`` Tell me -- assure me , on your soul , that you do notlove Hammond ? '' 
the obscene and loathsome Hammond -- the horrible , and black hearted -- the -- . '' 
`` Hea villain!the lion hearted -- glorious , glorious Hammond ! 
I was humbled to the earth -- I attempted to embrace her -- I even put my hands upon her shoulders ; but they fell off powerless ; and my lips parted with terrour as they approached ; and I was gradually sinking down to her feet , with confusion , shame , and humiliation , when the door opened , and Hammond , himself , entered , with a disordered aspect , and an agitated voice . '' 
I caught his eye -- first -- and then Elizabeth caught it . 
A new spirit blazed from her face , as she did so ; an impatient , inward sound , like the warbling of her very heart followed -- before , he could articulate distinctly . 
She put out her hand to him , like a queen . 
and the colour flashed over her face , like the sunset -- and he took it -- blast him ! 
`` Come hither , Albert Hammond , '' said she , `` come hither -- Are you friends ! '' 
`` Yes '' he replied , calmly . 
`` I know not , '' said Hammond , turning very pale `` nothing , I hope , that -- . '' 
We embraced ; and I could not be easy , until I had sent for Hammond ; and begged his pardon ; truly and extremely penitent , as I was , with a humbled and contrite heart . 
`` I hope that you will be well enough next week , '' said Hammond , as he parted from me , one evening , `` to go abroad . 
I was deeply affected with his manner , and watched the movement and expression of his face , till I half persuaded myself , that he was a doomed man . 
`` Are you ill , Hammond ? '' 
Saying these words , he left me , before I could prevent him ; but , all night long , I heard his voice continually sounding in my ear , no friend!no friend ! 
Hammond on horseback ... Frankness ... Will Adams encounters an old acquaintance ... Metaphysicks ... Free agency ... Voltaire ... Dr. Reid ... Frederick of Prussia ... Argument ... The Bible ... Mr. Lawrence ... . 
It was Hammond -- he was passing the window , on horseback ; and I do not wonder , that she trembled ; for , never , since the creation of the world , I do believe , was there so unsightly a creature in the saddle . 
He reined the animal with great strength ; and perfect self-command ; and sat firmly , in the seat ; but -- he looked rather like a lump , than a man . 
Hammond , himself , entered , before we had broken the silence ; and she addressed him , with a firm , kind manner , which I could not , though I tried hard , bring myself to like . 
`` Very , '' was the reply -- his great shining eyes , all alive , with the exercise ; and his countenance flushed . 
I never saw him look so handsome . 
-- She gave him her hand ; but I thought that he hesitated to touch it ; and , when he did , a mortal lividness shot upward from his lips , to his temples . 
`` Why do you ask ? '' 
`` Because , '' she continued , looking him steadily in the face -- `` because I do not like to see you on horseback . '' 
`` I thank you , '' he replied , rather haughtily , I thought -- but he immediately repeated , in a tone of deep quiet , and profound thankfulness ; that , I am sure , came from the bottom of his heart . 
`` I thank you ! 
-- and there is no knowing , what might have followed ; for my new blood , after all , was of the same temperature , as my old -- it thrilled and curdled , as readily , at the touch of Hammond 's flesh , to my sister 's , as if a rattlesnake had been put into my own bosom -- naked -- but just then , the door opened , and a clergyman , whom we well knew , was shown in . 
She had long wanted to pit Hammond , against him , upon some doctrine , on which she held to the clergyman 's belief ; and reprobated Hammond 's ; and she manifested , I thought , no little dexterity in bringing on the battle , here -- for , after some skirmishing with the outpost , there was a fair held fight -- somewhat after the following fashion , between the two . 
`` They are better never meddled with ; '' said Hammond . 
`` My own reasoning , '' was the reply . 
`` I believe , that I have not , sir ; '' was the calm reply of Hammond . 
said Hammond ; turning slowly , toward him ; and raising his hand in that impressive , cold , solemn way ; as if every word that he uttered , were set down at the moment , by a recording angel -- `` Sir ! 
`` And pray , sir -- Mr. Hammond , I believe , -LRB- Hammand bowed -RRB- -- a -- you came then , to a conclusion -- pray , what was that conclusion ? '' 
`` Certainly not , if you are seriously disposed against telling it -- or ashamed of it -- or afraid -- or -- '' `` Sir , '' said Hammond -- his dark eyes filling , all at once , with starlight , and beauty . 
`` Nor rewarded , '' echoed Hammond ; `` that is a part of your own doctrine , that there is no meritin man 's good actions . '' 
replied Hammond ; `` then why is Abraham celebrated for his faith , and obedience ? 
`` You see -- sir , '' said Hammond , with increasing solemnity ; `` that , what we call sin , when done , or authorized by God , ceases to be sin . 
`` I would recommend professor Reid , to you , '' said the other , as if he pitied Hammond . 
`` Professor Reid ! 
`` Can you pretend to believe that you are notfree -- Mr. Hammond , when you are acting every hour of your life , as if you believe it ; and , are continually planning for the future '' -- said Elizabeth . 
`` My dear Miss Adams , '' said he , with an air of the deepest , and most affectionate sincerity . 
said Elizabeth , interfering again , to keep down the warmth of Hammond . 
`` Professor Reid says the same thing , '' Hammond replied . 
answered Hammond , seriously . 
`` No -- I care little , or nothing , for what the wise have said on the subject . 
That is exactly what I said , when I began , sir , `` answered Hammond . '' 
`` And yet , '' said Elizabeth , timidly , her pleasant , lovely , impatient eyes dashed with shadow and light , as she raised them reverently to the clergyman ; -- `` I have always been led to beheve , that guilt or innocence were in the mind , alone ; -- that he , who meditates a murder , though he be unable to complete it , is a murderer ; -- that moral guilt is in the thought -- not in the deed ; -- that he who kills another , without intending it , is innocent ; and that he , who puts poison into the food of another , which is not eaten ; or gives a balsam , by mistake , when he would drug another 's heart with death , is a murdererin his soul ; morally guilty of all that he meditated . '' 
`` Surely , surely , Mr. Hammond . '' 
Hammond 's broad forehead lightened , absolutely lightened , as he repeated -- `` Beautiful enthusias ! 
`` Thank you , '' cried Hammond ; `` thank you , Eliza -- Miss Adams , I mean . 
`` This may be eloquence ; nay , it iseloquence , Mr. Hammond , '' said Elizabeth , `` but it is not argument . 
The poor creature believed that he was doing right ; but we are speaking of those , who believe that they are doing wrong ! '' 
`` I confess it , '' answered Hammond , turning a little pale . 
I pray you , bear with me : if it should prove , at the great day of account , that he who had done some terrible crime upon this earth , wilfully , and intendingto do wrong ; and believing that he was at libertyto do it , or not ; if he should find , at last , that he was under a delusion ; that he was notat liberty to forbear ; and that he could nothave done otherwise ; would he submit patiently , to his punishment . 
I care not who , or what he is . 
I dare to say no . 
`` Hammond stopped , confounded , overwhelmed -- but , it was only for a moment . 
`` Yes , '' he added , `` God is free ; and may do what he will . 
answered Hammond , standing upright , like one suddenly struck blind ; but he soon recovered himself . 
no matter what that law is ; no matter how it operates ; if there be anylaw , which competsthe Being , whom we call God -- to any mode of action ; pay which influenceshim , in the smallest degree ; though it be inhis own nature '' -- he faltered , his brow wrought intently in its darkness -- his great blood-shot eyes waned -- his lips moved , but no sound came from them . 
Hammond do I see you where I have been hoping to see you -- in the deep ocean -- the deep , deepocean of God 's nature -- now is it that I see your reason totter ! 
`` I know not , '' said Hammond , in an humbler tone , `` I know not what this feeling may mean . 
Hammond looked , as if he could have fallen at her feet , and buried his mouth in the dust . 
The sweat stood upon his white lips -- his hands were violently agitated , for some moments , as he vainly attempted to reply , while the clergyman sat , with shining eyes , and mouth open , in mute admiration of her passionate enthusiasm . 
`` Elizabeth , '' said Hammond , after a few minutes of deep , unbroken silence , `` I can not deceive you . 
`` Miss Adams , '' he replied , while his handsome , melancholy features lighted up , for a moment , with an expression of intense feeling . 
`` Because I was wrong , '' said he , mildly ; `` and the man was rather smaller than I -- '' Yet while he was there , with every eye upon his pale , placid features , he was goaded to such desperation , by a professed duellist , in consequence of the apology , that he turned round to him , before the whole company , and rebuked him , as with the authority of a superiour being , for the blood that he had spilt . 
The other raised his arm . 
`` Do not strike me . 
Frederick Harding ; '' said he -- `` it would be unmanly , -LRB- his dark sunken eyes , were so full of severity , and steadiness -- so undisturbed ; so beautiful , that the other 's arm dropped powerless before it -- and he continued . -RRB- 
Strike me , sir -- strike me , if you can , '' he added -- -LRB- for the women had fled from the room -- stepping up to him , with his eyes flashing fire , and trembling with emotion -RRB- -- `` strike me , if you have the manhood . 
Saying this , he pressed upon the fellow ; who , black in the face , with passion , and frothing at the lips , cocked the pistol , which till then had remained uncocked , with a shaking hand ; and levelled it . 
`` Another step , '' said he , menacing , inarticulately -- I was thunderstruck at what I thought the rashness of Larence ; and sprang forward to arrest the shot ; but the pistol was already struck from his hand -- the room rang ; and the ball rattled along the wall , and through the window . 
Larence stood at the door , unharmed ; and the discomfited wretch , overcome with his sense of inferiority , and shame , walked sullenly away . 
While we were yet pressing about the heroick Larence , who stood , with his fine eyes running over in thankfulness to heaven ; and so weak , that he could hardly stand ; another young man entered , and handed a note to him . 
Larence instantly recovered himself ; stood upright , with a calm forehead , and untroubled mouth . 
I know not , but I couldnot -- I never could -- my heart would have burst , while his only bled , in such a silence -- but Larence was a hero -- I was not -- I was only a man ; a man ! 
Reader , I must stop -- it is the first time that I have written hername -- my hand shakes -- I -- I -- farewell -- Emma Larence ... Leister ... Children ... Anna ... Their death ... Elizabeth ... Reminiscences ... Scornful , yet pleasant though ... Harriot ... Recapitulation ... Elizabeth and Hammond ... Jealousy ... A woman of principle ! 
It was Emma that I mentioned some chapters ago ; as having seen her with her white , graceful neck glittering in the sun , once , when Hammond and I were walking together . 
It was the night when Hammond was stabbed ; have you forgotten it ? 
I will ring it for ever there , till you acknowledge the greatness of Hammond ; his forbearance ; and your own ingratitude . 
Elizabeth loved Hammond -- and so did I -- but not , O heaven , no ! 
I sawEmma the following night ; and told her , by way of accounting for my stern and troubled look , all that I could , without betraying the secret of my sister , which concerned Hammond . 
`` No , no , '' she replied , `` I can not upbraid you , but -- -LRB- she faltered -RRB- I am afraid that you do not fully know Mr. Hammond . 
He is exceedingly your friend ; and , and -- pray , if the difference be not irreconcilable -- praymeet him , asa friend . '' 
I will see him tomorrow ; and -- '' -LRB- I did not say what I would do ; but I determined to make an atonement equal to my offence . -RRB- 
That same evening , I went to Hammond 's room , but he was away . 
I waited with impatience till morning ; but , when I had taken my breakfast , he was already in court . 
I went there -- spoke to him ; gave him my hand ; and he took it , much as usual ; but -- perhaps it was suspicion in me -- I thought , with a movement of haughtiness about the mouth , that was not common . 
I sat down ; and was not a little astonished soon after , when he addressed the court -- at the profound attention with which he was listened to . 
His language was that , which I had always heard him recommend ; precisely what he would have used in conversation ; yet , with this difference , that he talked better in conversation ; nay , I never heard him talkso badly , until he had fairly entered into the debate ; and then , I was carried long with him , by his bold , distinct , vehement way , just as if he were in conversation . 
I am an excellent stenographer yet ; but then , I was unrivalled ; and , willing to pay him some compliment , -LRB- for I had heard him often say , that he wondered how he should argue in public ; that he could not write , or study his language ; that he felt a great concern upon the subject ; and that he should not be able , for years , to enforce the same attention in court , that he did in conversation . -RRB- 
It was nearly as follows . 
-LRB- Hammond smiled , as if he wondered a little , not only at their ready acquiescence ; but , at their permitting the question to approach them in any shape -- in the way that it had -- before they had fully settled the question about that -RRB- -- `` I have now done , '' said he . 
-- `` I have now done . 
Here ended his speech ; and the judges upon the bench ; venerable and sedate men , with countenances full of awful wisdom and deep thought , remained , for some minutes , in a profound silence ; during which , Hammond passed out of court , like one assured and confident of the result ; and triumphing in his heart , that he had turned the scorner to seriousness ; and them that had smiled upon him , in compassion , when he began , to a tremendous repose -- a repose like that which settles and weighs upon the spirit , when it looks upon the great ocean , at midnight -- silent and breathless in awe ; awaiting every wrathful movement ; and like that , with which great men look upon revolutions ; or the mustering of armies ; or the preparation for political earthquake and hurricane . 
Petty troubles of matrimony ... Irregularity ... Birth of Leister ... First born ... Sensations of a father ... Pang ... Hammond ... Birth of Anna ... Perilous Acquaintance ... Atarum ! 
... Emma ... Death of Anna ... Sorrow of a mother ... Hammond again ! 
... Jealousy ... Shoots Hammond ... Smyrna ... Constantinople . 
She knew , that I would rather die , than ask her , what Hammond had said to her ; or why she had been weeping ? 
I saw Hammond , sometimes , but very rarely : and I had learned to affect a cordiality , that I did not feel . 
But , what alarmed me , more than anything else , was this I found out , accidentally , that Emma and Hammond had been very intimate , before we were married -- or even acquainted . 
Why had she never spoken of him , except , when it could not be avoided ? 
Elizabeth loved him -- and -- by heaven -- it was true!I now remembered hisconfusion , the first time that I ever saw her . 
No , no ... it could not be . 
Yet , Elizabeth had loved him -- and she had been secret , too . 
Monstrous and crushing as the thought was , it grew into shape , and proportion ; and , such was the heat and tempest of my wrath , that , had not God struck my daughter to the heart , instantly , before my eyes , just when I was ready to perpetrate the deed , I should , most assuredly , have slain Hammond . 
I thought of Hammond -- but I was silent as the grave -- he must have been the slanderer . 
How should he know that we were innocent ! 
There were all the appearances of guilt . 
`` Wait for me , till twelve , '' -LRB- it was then nine -RRB- and no longer -- weigh anchor , and be ready , at this spot , to take a man on board , who will come '' ... said I. I then went to my counting room ... wrote a farewell letter to Elizabeth ; ... some instructions about my property , giving it all to my wife and child ; appointing her brother to its management ; ... took a pair of pistols from the desk , and went in pursuit of Hammond -- We met ... ! 
-- I really trembled to see it turn round , it was so like Hammond . 
It was Hammond , himself ! 
He uttered a cry of transport , when he saw me . 
I stepped back -- and shook with passion ; for though I had repented of his death , while I thought it probable , that he wasdead , and I , his destroyer ; yet , now , that he stood before me strong in health -- I began to feel for my dagger . 
He saw my purpose . 
`` This is too much for mortal patience . 
There was that , in his terrible voice , when in wrath , that shook me to dissolution . 
`` William Adams , '' he repeated , approaching me , but with his arm , folded -- `` I want some conversation with you . '' 
`` I know not , Hammond , what is the meaning of these tears ... I would not have believed , two hours ago , that it was in the power of any mortal creature , to make my heart beave , and yearn , in this way ... to conjure up , as you have , such a feeling of humanity in it ... to ... O , man , man ! 
`` No subterfuge , Hammond : if you have , you know how ... I can not speak it . 
It matters little how Hammond succeeded , in winning me , to embark for my country ... but he did succeed ; and , though , by a tacit agreement , we never spoke of , nor alluded , to the past ; yet we were constantly together , on our way home , to my family ... no , not to my family ... I was determined never to see her again . 
Hammond calmly took them up ; wiped his eyes ; and we never exchanged another word , till more than a month after , when -- I struck him bloody , and blinded to the deck of our shattered vessel . 
It was Hammond ... I raised my arm , and he fell , the blood gushing out of his ears , and nostrils ; but he still held on , and I. . 
I , Obanquetted on the loathsome ... I -- no matter , here was another time , that he had saved me ... another , and another ! 
Conclusion by Hammond...Explanation...Elizabeth...Fate-of William Adams ... Early intimacy of Hammond and Emma ... Emma 's letter to her husband . 
