But when they had said this a good many times , suddenly the domestic horizon cleared , and then they used still to say it , because a habit is a habit , but they uttered it half mechanically now , and added brightly and cheerfully , ` but thanks to St. Bavon and all the saints , there 's Gerard . ' 
Young Gerard was for many years of his life a son apart and distinct ; object of no fears and no great hopes . 
No fears ; for he was going into the Church ; and the Church could always maintain her children by hook or by crook in those days : no great hopes , because his family had no interest with the great to get him a benefice , and the young man 's own habits were frivolous , and , indeed , such as our cloth merchant would not have put up with in any one but a clerk that was to be . 
At this Gerard was confused , and muttered that he had made several trials at illuminating , but had not succeeded well ; and thus the matter rested . 
In course of time she heard of Gerard , and saw some of his handiwork : it pleased her so well that she sent her female servant , Reicht Heynes , to ask him to come to her . 
At first the old lady damped Gerard 's courage terribly . 
At each visit she fished out of holes and corners drawings and paintings , some of them by her own hand , that seemed to him unapproachable : but if the artist overpowered him , the woman kept his heart up . 
She and Reicht soon turned him inside out like a glove : among other things , they drew from him what the good monks had failed to hit upon , the reason why he did not illuminate , viz. , that he could not afford the gold , the blue , and the red , but only the cheap earths ; and that he was afraid to ask his mother to buy the choice colours , and was sure he should ask her in vain . 
Then Margaret Van Eyck gave him a little brush-gold , and some vermilion , and ultramarine , and a piece of good vellum to lay them on . 
He almost adored her . 
As he left the house Reicht ran after him with a candle and two quarters : he quite kissed her . 
Backed by an acquaintance so venerable , and strengthened by female sympathy , Gerard advanced in learning and skill . 
His spirits , too , rose visibly : he still looked behind him when dragged to dinner in the middle of an initial G ; but once seated showed great social qualities : likewise a gay humour , that had hitherto but peeped in him , shone out , and often he set the table in a roar , and kept it there , sometimes with his own wit , sometimes with jests which were glossy new to his family , being drawn from antiquity . 
As a return for all he owed his friends the monks , he made them exquisite copies from two of their choicest MSS. , viz. , the life of their founder , and their Comedies of Terence , the monastery finding the vellum . 
When this was cried by the bellman through the streets of Tergou , a thousand mouths opened , and one heart beat -- Gerard 's . 
He told his family timidly he should try for two of those prizes . 
They stared in silence , for their breath was gone at his audacity : but one horrid laugh exploded on the floor like a petard . 
Gerard looked down , and there was the dwarf , slit and fanged from ear to ear at his expense , and laughing like a lion . 
Gerard turned red with anger , the more so as the others began to titter . 
Yes , Gerard , try with the rest . 
it is in vain , Kate , ' said Gerard , with a sigh . 
But on this Gerard fell a thinking how he could spare her purse . 
` Never tyne the ship for want of a bit of tar , Gerard , ' said this changeable mother . 
You will be sure to want it , Gerard . 
Sure enough , when the time came , Gerard longed to go to Rotterdam and see the duke , and above all to see the work of his competitors , and so get a lesson from defeat . 
Gerard would soon be a priest . 
It seemed hard if he might not enjoy the world a little before separating himself from it for life . 
The night before he went , Margaret Van Eyck asked him to take a letter for her , and when he came to look at it , to his surprise he found it was addressed to the Princess Marie , at the Stadthouse , in Rotterdam . 
The day before the prizes were to be distributed , Gerard started for Rotterdam in his holiday suit , to wit , a doublet of silver-grey cloth with sleeves , and a jerkin of the same over it , but without sleeves . 
From his waist to his heels he was clad in a pair of tight-fitting buckskin hose fastened by laces -LRB- called points -RRB- to his doublet . 
His shoes were pointed , in moderation , and secured by a strap that passed under the hollow of the foot . 
On his head and the back of his neck he wore his flowing hair , and pinned to his back between his shoulders was his hat : it was further secured by a purple silk ribbon little Kate had passed round him from the sides of the hat , and knotted neatly on his breast ; below his hat , attached to the upper rim of his broad waist-belt , was his leathern wallet . 
When he got within a league of Rotterdam he was pretty tired , but he soon fell in with a pair that were more so . 
He found an old man sitting by the roadside quite worn out , and a comely young woman holding his hand , with a face brimful of concern . 
The country people trudged by and noticed nothing amiss : but Gerard , as he passed , drew conclusions . 
Even dress tells a tale to those who study it so closely as he did , being an illuminator . 
The young woman was dressed in plain russet cloth : yet snow-white lawn covered that part of her neck the gown left visible , and ended half way up her white throat in a little band of gold embroidery : and her head-dress was new to Gerard ; instead of hiding her hair in a pile of linen or lawn , she wore an open net-work of silver cord with silver spangles at the interstices : in this her glossy auburn hair was rolled in front into two solid waves , and supported behind in a luxurious and shapely mass . 
His quick eye took in all this , and the old man 's pallor , and the tears in the young woman 's eyes . 
So when he had passed them a few yards , he reflected , and turned back , and came towards them bashfully . 
Gerard 's address did not appear so agreeable to the girl as o the old man . 
Gerard , with simplicity , and quite as a matter of course , fell to gathering sticks with great expedition . 
This done , he took down his wallet , out with the manchet of bread and the iron flask his careful mother had put up , and his everlasting tinder-box ; lighted a match , then a candle end , then the sticks ; and put his iron flask on it . 
Then down he went on his stomach and took a good blow : then looking up , he saw the girl 's faced had thawed , and she was looking down at him and his energy with a demure smile . 
He laughed back to her : ` Mind the pot , ' said he , ` and do n't let it spill , for Heaven 's sake : there 's a cleft stick to hold it safe with ; ' and with this he set off running towards a corn-field at some distance . 
Whilst he was gone , there came by , on a mule with rich purple housings , an old man redolent of wealth . 
At this moment who should come bounding up but Gerard . 
He had two straws in his hand , and he threw himself down by the fire , and relieved Margaret of the cooking part : then suddenly recognizing the burgomaster , he coloured all over . 
` Oh , ' said he bitterly , ` I am not wanted : ' and went slowly on , casting a long look of suspicion on Margaret , and hostility on Gerard , that was not very intelligible . 
Gerard only stared with surprise . 
` The soup is hot , ' said Gerard . 
For , while he stated his difficulty , Gerard removed it . 
He untied in a moment the knot on his breast , took his hat off , put a stone into each corner of it , then , wrapping his hand in the tail of his jerkin , whipped the flask off the fire , wedged it in between the stones , and put the hat under the old man 's nose with a merry smile . 
This spared them the ` modern instances , ' and gave Gerard an opportunity of telling Margaret how proud his mother would be her soup had profited a man of learning . 
This answer dashed the novice Gerard instead of provoking him to fresh efforts , and he was silent . 
Then came a little difficulty : Gerard the adroit could not tie his ribbon again as Catherine had tied it . 
Margaret , after slily eyeing his efforts for some time , offered to help him ; for at her age girls love to be coy and tender , saucy and gentle , by turns , and she saw she had put him out of countenance but now . 
Then a fair head , with its stately crown of auburn hair , glossy and glowing through silver , bowed sweetly towards him ; and , while it ravished his eye , two white supple hands played delicately upon the stubborn ribbon , and moulded it with soft and airy touches . 
Gerard , blushing at having scared her away with his eyes , took the other arm ; and so the two young things went downcast and conscious , and propped the eagle along in silence . 
They entered Rotterdam by the Schiedamze Poort ; and , as Gerard was unacquainted with the town , Peter directed him the way to the Hooch Straet , in which the Stadthouse was . 
They bade each other a friendly adieu , and Gerard dived into the great town . 
A profound sense of solitude fell upon him , yet the streets were crowded . 
Then he lamented too late that , out of delicacy , he had not asked his late companions who they were and where they lived . 
said he . 
Falling into this sad reverie , and letting his body go where it would , he lost his way ; but presently meeting a crowd of persons all moving in one direction , he mingled with them , for he argued they must be making for the Stadthouse . 
Soon the noisy troop that contained the moody Gerard emerged , not upon the Stadthouse , but upon a large meadow by the side of the Maas ; and then the attraction was revealed . 
These things made Gerard laugh now and then ; but the gay scene could not really enliven it , for his heart was not in tune with it . 
It cost Gerard a struggle to get near him , and when he was within four heads of the gate , he saw something that made his heart beat : there was Peter , with Margaret on his arm , soliciting humbly for entrance . 
She turned quickly round at it , and it was Gerard . 
She dropped Gerard 's hand directly , and turned round , with eyes flashing through her tears : ` I have no sweetheart , you rude men . 
The silence enabled Gerard to treat with the porter . 
` Gerard , the son of Elias . ' 
The janitor inspected a slip of parchment he held in his hand : ` Gerard Eliassoen can enter . ' 
And with this , Gerard raised a voice of astounding volume and power , and shouted , so that the whole street rang : ` Ho ! 
Then suddenly trying to overpower Gerard 's thunder , he shouted , with all his lungs : ` Open the gate , ye knaves ! 
Way there for Gerard Eliassoen and his company ! 
-LRB- the fiends go with him ! ' -RRB- 
Gerard and his friends stood dazzled , spell bound . 
The duke 's hand being up , he gave it another turn , and pointed the new comers out to a knot of valets . 
Instantly seven of his people , with an obedient start , went headlong at our friends , seated them at a table , and put fifteen many-coloured soups before them , in little silver bowls , and as many wines in crystal vases . 
Gerard put his face into his hands . 
` Tell me when you have done , ' said he , ` and I will reappear and have my supper , for I am hungry . 
Why , then , did Margaret start away from it with two shrieks of dismay , and pinch so good a friend as Gerard ? 
He had restored to the animal , by elaborate mimicry with burnt sugar and other edible colours , the hair and bristles he had robbed him of by fire and water . 
To make him still more enticing , the huge tusks were carefully preserved in the brute 's jaw , and gave his mouth the winning smile that comes of tusk in man or beast : and two eyes of coloured sugar glowed in his head . 
But , indeed , I need the pencil of Granville or Tenniel to make you see the two gilt valets on the opposite side of the table putting the monster down before our friends , with a smiling , self-satisfied , benevolent obsequiousness -- for this ghastly monster was the flower of all comestibles -- old Peter clasping both hands in pious admiration of it ; Margaret wheeling round with horror stricken eyes and her hand on Gerard 's shoulder , squeaking and pinching ; his face of unwise delight at being pinched , the grizzly brute glaring sulkily on all , and the guests grinning from ear to ear . 
Seven of his people with a zealous start went headlong and told him . 
He laughed and said , ` Give her of the beef-stuffing , then , and bring me Sir Boar . ' 
These presently smoked before Gerard and company ; and Peter 's face sad and slightly morose at the loss of the savage hog , expanded and shone . 
But long before our party arrived at this final stage , appetite had succumbed , and Gerard had suddenly remembered he was the bearer of a letter to the Princess Marie , and , in an undertone , had asked one of the servants if he would undertake to deliver it . 
Half the courses were lost on Gerard and Margaret . 
Margaret leaned back and half closed her eyes , and murmured to Gerard : ` What a lovely scene ! 
Gerard was silent all but his eyes ; observing which -- ` Now , speak not to me , ' said Margaret languidly ; ` let me listen to the fountain : what are you a competitor for ? ' 
He told her . 
Gerard smiled at the feminine logic , and hung his head at the sweet praise , and was silent . 
that is all a silly old song , ' explained Gerard . 
` What do you admire most of all these beautiful things , Gerard ? ' 
O Gerard ! 
Gerard tried to explain . 
` Gerard ? ' 
Then Gerard was frightened at the alarm he caused . 
` Forgive me , ' said he imploringly . 
He took it , and held it prisoner . 
He held it tight : it submitted quite patiently to force . 
Gerard lost nothing by his promise . 
Everything was on Gerard 's side : his good looks , her belief in his goodness , her gratitude ; and opportunity : for at the duke 's banquet this mellow summer eve , all things disposed the female nature to tenderness : the avenues to the heart lay open ; the senses were so soothed and subdued with lovely colours gentle sounds , and delicate odours ; the sun gently sinking , the warm air , the green canopy , the cool music of the now violet fountain . 
Gerard and Margaret sat hand in hand in silence : and Gerard 's eyes sought hers lovingly ; and hers now and then turned on him timidly and imploringly : and presently two sweet unreasonable tears rolled down her cheeks , and she smiled deliciously while they were drying : yet they did not take long . 
N5402001 A grave white-haired seneschal came to their table , and inquired courteously whether Gerard Eliassoen was of their company . 
Upon Gerard 's answer , he said : ` The Princess Marie would confer with you , young sir ; I am to conduct you to her presence . ' 
Gerard rose to obey . 
` That will you , ' was the reply : then he whispered in her ear : ` This is my good princess ; but you are my queen . ' 
He added aloud : ` Wait for me , I pray you , I will presently return . ' 
Gerard gone , the pair whose dress was so homely , yet they were with the man whom the princess sent for , became ` the cynosure of neighbouring eyes ; ' observing which , William Johnson came forward , acted surprise , and claimed his relations : ` And to think that there was I at your backs , and you saw me not . ' 
Margaret felt a thrill of joy that Gerard should be lodged under the same roof with her ; then she had a slight misgiving . 
` But if your young man should be thoughtless , and go play , and Gerard miss him ? ' 
` He go play ? 
He leave that spot where I put him ? 
and bid him stay ? 
Hans was then instructed to sit at the table and wait for Gerard and conduct him to Ooster-Waagen Straet . 
He replied , not in words , but by calmly taking the seat indicated , and Margaret , Peter , and William Johnson went away together . 
Hans Cloterman sat waiting for Gerard , solemn and business-like . 
As Gerard was long in coming , the patient Hans -- his employer 's eye being no longer on him -- improved the time by quaffing solemnly , silently , and at short but accurately measured intervals , goblets of Corsican wine . 
The wine was strong , so was Cloterman 's head : and Gerard had been gone a good hour ere the model secretary imbibed the notion that Creation expected Cloterman to drink the health of all good fellows , and ` nommément ' of the Duke of Burgundy there present . 
With this view he filled bumper nine , and rose gingerly but solemnly and slowly . 
Having reached his full height , he instantly rolled upon the grass , goblet in hand , spilling the cold liquor on more than one ankle -- whose owners frisked -- but not disturbing a muscle in his own long face , which , in the total eclipse of reason , retained its gravity , primness , and infallibility . 
The seneschal led Gerard through several passages to the door of the pavilion , where some young noblemen , embroidered and feathered , sat sentinel , guarding the heir-apparent , and playing cards by the red light of torches their servants held . 
A whisper from the seneschal , and one of them rose reluctantly , stared at Gerard with haughty surprise , and entered the pavilion . 
He presently returned , and , beckoning the pair , led them through a passage or two and landed them in an antechamber , where sat three more young gentlemen , feathered , furred , and embroidered like pieces of fancy work , and deep in that instructive and edifying branch of learning , dice . 
Gerard prepared to retire . 
On this a superb Adonis rose , with an injured look , and led Gerard into a room where sat or lolloped eleven ladies , chattering like magpies . 
At the sight of a stranger all the tongues stopped like one piece of complicated machinery , and all the eyes turned on Gerard , as if the same string that checked the tongues had turned the eyes on . 
Gerard was ill at ease before , but this battery of eyes discountenanced him , and down went his eyes on the ground . 
This same duenna took Gerard , and marched before him in solemn silence . 
The young man 's heart sank , and he had half a mind to turn and run out of the place . 
` What must princes be , ' he thought , ` when their courtiers are so freezing ? 
Doubtless they take their breeding from him they serve . ' 
These reflections were interrupted by the duenna suddenly introducing him into a room where three ladies sat working , and a pretty little girl tuning a lute . 
This lady then turned towards Gerard , with a smile , and beckoned him to come near her . 
She did not rise , but she laid aside her work , and her manner of turning towards him , slight as the movement was , was full of grace and ease and courtesy . 
Gerard had just found out what high society he was in . 
` My sovereign demoiselle , ' said he , gently and a little tremulously , ` where there have been no pains there needs no reward . ' 
While the pure and tender strain was flowing from the pure young throat , Gerard 's eyes filled . 
The countess watched him with interest , for it was usual to applaud the princess loudly , but not with cheek and eye . 
So when the voice ceased , and the glasses left off ringing , she asked demurely , ` Was he content ? ' 
Gerard gave a little start ; the spoken voice broke a charm , and brought him back to earth . 
he cried , ` surely it is thus that cherubs and seraphs sing , and charm the saints in heaven . ' 
Gerard bowed . 
` A priest gives up much , ' continued the countess ; ` often , I fear , he learns too late how much : ' and her woman 's eye rested a moment on Gerard with mild pity and half surprise at his resigning her sex , and all the heaven they can bestow , and the great parental joys : ` at least you shall be near your friends . 
Gerard bowed low to the countess and the princess , and backed towards the door . 
` I hope it will be a nice benefice , ' said the princess to him , with a pretty smile , as he was going out ; then , shaking her head with an air of solemn misgiving , ` but you had better have been Bishop of Liége . ' 
Gerard followed his new conductor , his heart warm with gratitude : but ere he reached the banquet-hall a chill came over him . 
While Gerard was with the countess , the excitement of so new a situation , the unlooked for promise , the joy and pride it would cause at home , possessed him wholly : but now it was passion 's turn to be heard again . 
What , give up Margaret , whose soft hand he still felt in his , and her deep eyes in his heart ? 
resign her and all the world of love and joy she had opened on him to-day ? 
The revulsion , when it did come , was so strong , that he hastily resolved to say nothing at home about the offered benefice . 
` The countess is so good , ' thought he , ` she has a hundred ways of aiding a young man 's fortune : she will not compel me to be a priest when she shall learn I love one of her sex : one would almost think she does know it , for she cast a strange look on me , and said , `` A priest gives up much , too much . '' 
Gerard never guessed how important this solemn drunkard was to him : he was looking for ` Beauty , ' and let the ` Beast ' lie . 
He ran wildly round the hall , which was now comparatively empty . 
He left the palace : outside he found a crowd gaping at two great fanlights just lighted over the gate . 
He asked them earnestly if they had seen an old man in a gown , and a lovely girl pass out . 
From another group he learned there was a Mystery being played under canvas hard by , and all the world gone to see it . 
This revived his hopes , and he went and saw the Mystery . 
Margaret was nowhere in the crowd , and Gerard could not enjoy the performance : he actually went away in Act 2 , in the midst of a much-admired piece of dialogue , in which Justice outquibbled Satan . 
Catherine and her little crippled daughter had long been anxious about Gerard , and now they were gone a little way down the road , to see if by good luck he might be visible in the distance ; and Giles was alone in the sitting-room , which I will sketch , furniture and dwarf included . 
I had not noticed it at another time ; but I was tired and in care for Gerard , you know . ' 
` Let no one be in care for me , ' said a faint voice at the door , and in tottered Gerard , pale , dusty , and worn out ; and amidst uplifted hands and cries of delight , curiosity , and anxiety , mingled , dropped exhausted into the nearest chair . 
Beating Rotterdam , like a covert , for Margaret , and the long journey afterwards , had fairly knocked Gerard up . 
But elastic youth soon revived , and behold him the centre of an eager circle . 
Then Gerard told them he had been admitted to see the competitors ' works all laid out in an enormous hall before the judges pronounced . 
Then , to please the females , he described to them the reliquaries , feretories , calices , crosiers , crosses , pyxes , monstrances , and other wonders ecclesiastical , and the goblets , hanaps , watches , clocks , chains , brooches , & c. , so that their mouths watered . 
` You may well laugh , ' said Gerard , ` but for all that Gerard Eliassoen of Tergou was the name the herald shouted . 
He said something to me , but I was so fluttered I could not answer him . 
So then he put his hand to his side and did not draw a glaive and cut off my dull head , but gave me a gold medal , and there it is . ' 
` And then he gave me fifteen great bright golden angels . 
` Oh Gerard ! 
oh , Gerard ! ' 
` There is one for you , our eldest ; and one for you , Sybrandt , and for you , Little Mischief ; and two for thee , Little Lily , because God hath afflicted thee ; and one for myself to buy colours and vellum ; and nine for her that nursed us all , and risked the two crowns upon poor Gerard 's hand . ' 
Cornelis and Sybrandt clutched each his coin with one glare of greediness and another glare of envy at Kate , who had got two pieces . 
Kate put down her crutches and sat down , and held out her little arms to Gerard with a heavenly gesture of love and tenderness , and the mother , fairly benumbed at first by the shower of gold that fell on her apron , now cried out , ` Leave kissing him , Kate , he is my son , not yours . 
Ah , Gerard , my boy ! 
Then Gerard threw himself on his knees beside her , and she flung her arms round him and wept for joy and pride , upon his neck . 
` Stay a minute , father , there is better news behind , ' said Gerard , flushing with joy at the joy he caused . 
Then Gerard told his interview with the countess , and the house rang with joy . 
From that hour Gerard was looked upon as the stay of the family . 
He was a son apart , but in another sense . 
He was always in the right , and nothing too good for him . 
Cornelis and Sybrandt became more and more jealous of him , and longed for the day he should go to his benefice : they would get rid of the favourite , and his reverence 's purse would be open to them . 
With these views he co-operated . 
The wound , love had given him , throbbed duller and duller . 
His success and the affection and admiration of his parents , made him think more highly of himself , and resent with more spirit Margaret 's ingratitude and discourtesy . 
For all that , she had power to cool him towards the rest of her sex , and now for every reason he wished to be ordained priest as soon as he could pass the intermediate orders . 
He knew the Vulgate already better than most of the clergy , and studied the rubric and the dogmas of the Church with his friends the monks ; and , the first time the bishop came that way , he applied to be admitted ` exorcist , ' the third step in holy orders . 
He had to kneel , and , after a short prayer , the bishop delivered to him a little MS. full of exorcisms , and said : ` Take this , Gerard , and have power to lay hands on the possessed , whether baptized or catechumens ! ' 
and he took it reverently , and went home invested by the Church with power to cast out demons . 
Returning home from the church , he was met by little Kate on her crutches . 
` Oh , Gerard ! 
` Nay , Gerard , I know not . 
But he seems urgent to see you . 
You are to go to his house on the instant . ' 
` Well , he is the burgomaster : I will go : but it likes me not . 
Kate , I have seen him cast such a look on me as no friend casts . 
To be sure , he knows -- ' ` Knows what , Gerard ? ' 
He offered Gerard the honour of transcribing them fair . 
Gerard inquired what he was to be paid . 
Then fixing his eyes keenly on Gerard , to mark the effect of his words , he said : ` Say , rather , you are idle grown . 
Gerard started up in a strange state of nervous excitement . 
` Burgomaster , ' said he , with trembling voice , ` I have not been at Sevenbergen this three years , and I knew not the name of those you saw me with , nor where they dwelt ; but , as my time is precious , though you value it not , give you good day . ' 
And he darted out , with his eyes sparkling . 
Gerard felt an unaccountable pang at the sight of him . 
However , the man turned out to be past fifty years of age , an old soldier , whom Gerard remembered to have seen shoot at the butts with admirable force and skill . 
At this Margaret 's face gradually warmed ; but presently , assuming incredulity and severity , she put many shrewd questions , all of which Gerard answered most loyally . 
And Gerard found a MS. Vulgate lying open on the table , and pounced upon it like a hawk . 
were his delight ; but before he could get to it two white hands quickly came flat upon the page , and a red face over them . 
And he kissed them so often , that for very shame they were fain to withdraw , and , lo ! 
and with a touch of inconsistency she pointed it out to Gerard with her white finger . 
` Ay , ' said he , ` but to-day it is all hidden in that great cap . ' 
And now Peter came in , and welcomed Gerard cordially , and would have him to stay supper . 
And Margaret disappeared ; and Gerard had a nice learned chat with Peter ; and Margaret reappeared with her hair in her silver net , and shot a glance half arch half coy , and glided about them , and spread supper , and beamed bright with gaiety and happiness . 
And in the cool evening Gerard coaxed her out , and she objected , and came ; and coaxed her on to the road to Tergou , and she declined , and came , and there they strolled up and down , hand in hand ; and when he must go they pledged each other never to quarrel or misunderstand one another again ; and they sealed the promise with a long loving kiss , and Gerard went home on wings . 
From that day Gerard spent most of his evenings with Margaret , and the attachment deepened and deepened on both sides till the hours they spent together were the hours they lived ; the rest they counted and underwent . 
For he drove a regular trade with his brother Gerard in this article . 
Went about and begged it gratis , and Gerard gave him coppers for it . 
On the afternoon of the same day , Catherine and her daughter were chatting together about their favourite theme , Gerard , his goodness , his benefice , and the brightened prospects of the whole family . 
Gerard will take care of you and Giles , when we are gone . ' 
Only Gerard must never know ; for sure he means to surprise us with it ; he covers it up so , and sometimes he carries it away altogether . ' 
` It is about your son Gerard . ' 
you want him to work for the town all for nothing . 
He told us . ' 
It is to let you know he has fallen into bad hands . ' 
` Your son Gerard is more like to be father of a family than a priest : he is for ever with Margaret , Peter Brandt 's red-haired girl , and loves her like a cow her calf . ' 
` Carry this tale to those who know not my son Gerard . 
Women are nought to him . ' 
But this one is the apple of his eye to him , or will be , if you part them not , and soon . 
` Gerard might love a young woman : all young men do : I ca n't find what they see in them to love so : but if he did he would let us know ; he would not deceive us . 
Gerard is too good to love a creature of earth . 
His love is for our Lady and the saints . 
I will show you the picture -- there : if his heart was earthly could he paint the Queen of Heaven like that -- look ! 
and she held the picture out triumphantly , and more radiant and beautiful in this moment of enthusiasm than ever dead picture was or will be , overpowered the burgomaster with her eloquence and her feminine proof of Gerard 's purity . 
His eyes and mouth opened , and remained open : in which state they kept turning face and all , as if on a pivot , from the picture to the women , and from the women to the picture . 
` Why , it is herself , ' he gasped . 
Why here is the burgomaster blackening our Gerard . ' 
Evening descended -- no Gerard : eight o'clock came -- no Gerard . 
Poor Gerard ! 
he never vexed you before . ' 
I do suppose Gerard is with her now , as you used to be with me . 
` Nay , I hope he has left her by now , confound her , or we shall be here all night . ' 
While the burgomaster was exposing Gerard at Tergou , Margaret had a trouble of her own at Sevenbergen . 
` Martin , there 's nothing in the house , and Gerard is coming , and he is so thoughtless . 
He forgets to sup at home . 
When he gives over work then he runs to me straight , poor soul : and often he comes quite faint . 
` Well , if I let you go you must promise me not to go far , and not to be seen ; far better Gerard went supperless than ill should come to you , faithful Martin . ' 
Gerard must go supperless this night . ' 
He plunged into the wood , following the buck and leopard , for that was his way home . 
He had not gone far when he heard an unusual sound ahead of him -- leaves rustling violently , and the ground trampled . 
He hurried in the direction . 
He found the leopard on the buck 's back , tearing him with teeth and claw , and the buck running in a circle and bounding convulsively , with the blood pouring down his hide . 
She busied herself at the fire , and the stout soldier stanched and bound his own wound apart , and soon he and Gerard and Margaret were supping royally on broiled venison . 
They were very merry ; and Gerard , with wonderful thoughtfulness , had brought a flask of Schiedam , and under its influence Martin revived , and told them how the venison was got ; and they all made merry over the exploit . 
Gerard seized his bow , and put it into the soldier 's hands . 
Margaret seized this opportunity , and cried a little ; Gerard kissed the tears away . 
To table once more and Gerard drank to woman 's wit : ` 'T is stronger than man 's force , ' said he . 
To-night Gerard stayed with her longer than usual , and went home prouder than ever of her , and happy as a prince . 
` Oh , Gerard ! ' 
said his mother , with a voice full of reproach and yet of affection . 
Gerard 's heart quaked : he was silent . 
Then his father pitied his confusion , and said to him : ` Nay , you need not to hang your head . 
Gerard held his peace : and the three walked home in gloomy silence , broken only by a deep sigh or two from Catherine . 
Gerard was taken to task next day before the whole family ; and every voice was loud against him , except little Kate 's , and the dwarf 's , who was apt to take his cue from her without knowing why . 
Gerard was dismayed at finding so many enemies , and looked wistfully into his little sister 's face : her eyes were brimming at the harsh words showered on one who but yesterday was the universal pet . 
But she gave him no encouragement : she turned her head away from him , and said : ` Dear , dear Gerard , pray to Heaven to cure you of this folly ! ' 
said Gerard , sadly ; and he rose with a deep sigh , and left the house , and went to Sevenbergen . 
The combatants were unequally matched : Elias was angry , Cornelis and Sybrandt spiteful ; but Gerard , having a larger and more cultivated mind , saw both sides where they saw but one , and had fits of irresolution , and was not wrath , but unhappy . 
He was lonely too in this struggle . 
He could open his heart to no one . 
Margaret was a high-spirited girl : he dared not tell her what he had to endure at home ; she was capable of siding with his relations by resigning him , though at the cost of her own happiness . 
Margaret Van Eyck had been a great comfort to him on another occasion ; but now he dared not make her his confidante . 
How could he tell her that he declined the benefice she had got him , and declined it for the sake of that , which at his age she had despised and sacrificed so lightly ? 
Gerard at this period bade fair to succumb . 
She irritated Gerard at times , and so helped him ; for anger is a great sustainer of the courage : at others , she turned round in a moment and made onslaughts on her own forces . 
To take a single instance out of many : one day that they were all at home , Catherine and all , Cornelis said : ` Our Gerard wed Margaret Brandt ? 
` Gerard can paint , Gerard can write , but what can you do to keep a woman , ye lazy loon ? 
On these occasions Gerard smiled slily , and picked up heart : and temporary confusion fell on Catherine 's unfortunate allies . 
Gerard turned pale with anger at this , but by a great effort held his peace . 
His father went on to say , ` And a priest you shall be before the year is out , nilly-willy . ' 
cried Gerard . 
As Gerard came out of the house , his cheeks pale and his heart panting , he met Reicht Heynes : she had a message for him : Margaret Van Eyck desired to see him . 
He found the old lady seated grim as a judge . 
She wasted no time in preliminaries , but inquired coldly why he had not visited her of late : before he could answer , she said in a sarcastic tone , ` I thought we had been friends , young sir . ' 
At this Gerard looked the picture of doubt and consternation . 
` It is because you never told her you were in love , ' said Reicht Heynes , pitying his confusion . 
Why should he tell us his affairs ? 
We are not his friends : we have not deserved his confidence . ' 
my second mother , ' said Gerard , ` I did not dare to tell you my folly . ' 
No , Gerard : I look on you as my son . 
Poor Gerard was overjoyed to be permitted to praise Margaret aloud , and to one who could understand what he loved in her . 
Soon there were two pair of wet eyes over his story ; and when the poor boy saw that , there were three . 
By this trait Gerard now profited . 
Gerard 's only course was to marry Margaret Brandt off-hand ; the old people would come to after a while , the deed once done . 
Whereas , the longer this misunderstanding continued on its present footing , the worse for all parties , especially for Gerard . 
` See how pale and thin they have made him amongst them . ' 
Exasperated as Gerard was by his father 's threat of violence , he listened to these friendly voices telling him the prudent course was rebellion . 
But though he listened he was not convinced . 
` I do not fear my father 's violence , ' he said , ` but I do fear his anger . 
When it came to the point he would not imprison me . 
No ; he would disown me . 
There is a country , Gerard , where certain fortune awaits you at this moment . 
cried Gerard . 
Know you not that his Holiness the Pope has written to every land for skilful scribes to copy the hundreds of precious manuscripts that are pouring into that favoured land from Constantinople , whence learning and learned men are driven by the barbarian Turks ? ' 
And , after that day , Gerard recovered his spirits , and seemed to carry a secret talisman against all the gibes and the harsh words that flew about his ears at home . 
Besides the money she procured him for the journey , Margaret Van Eyck gave him money 's worth . 
Above all , Gerard , I warn you use but little oil , and never boil it ; boiling it melts that vegetable dross into its very heart , which it is our business to clear away ; for impure oil is death to colour . 
This and several other receipts , quæ nunc perscribere longum est , Margaret gave him with sparkling eyes , and Gerard received them like a legacy from Heaven , so interesting are some things that read uninteresting . 
Thus provided with money and knowledge , Gerard decided to marry , and fly with his wife to Italy . 
Nothing remained now but to inform Margaret Brandt of his resolution , and to publish the banns as quietly as possible . 
He went to Sevenbergen earlier than usual on both these errands . 
He began with Margaret ; told her of the Dame Van Eyck 's goodness , and the resolution he had come to at last , and invited her co-operation . 
` No , Gerard ; you and I have never spoken of your family , but when you come to marriage -- ' She stopped , then began again . 
But so long as he is bent on your being a priest -LRB- you ought to have told me this instead of I you -RRB- , I could not marry you , Gerard , dearly as I love you . ' 
Gerard strove in vain to shake this resolution . 
He found it very easy to make her cry , but impossible to make her yield . 
Then Gerard was impatient and unjust . 
he cried ; ` then you are on their side , and you will drive me to be a priest , for this must end one way or another . 
Margaret was full of this sweet womanly pity , when , to her great surprise , scarce an hour and a half after he left her , Gerard came running back to her with the fragments of a picture in his hand , and panting with anger and grief . 
` Never mind , Gerard , ' said Margaret , panting . 
` Since this is how they treat you for my sake -- Ye rob him of my portrait , do ye ? 
Well , then he shall have the face itself , such as it is . ' 
` Yes , Gerard ; since they are so cruel , I will be the kinder : forgive me for refusing you . 
Gerard kissed her hands with rapture and then her lips ; and in a tumult of joy ran for Peter and Martin . 
Outside the church door , Margaret and Gerard held a trembling and almost despairing consultation ; but , before they could settle anything , the man who had done them so ill a turn approached , and gave them to understand that he was very sorry to interfere ; that his inclination was to further the happiness of the young : but that in point of fact his only means of getting a living was by forbidding banns : what then ? 
I will give you a golden angel to do this , ' said Gerard , eagerly . 
The man consented as eagerly , and went with Gerard to the curé , and told him he had made a ridiculous mistake , which a sight of the parties had rectified . 
On this the curé agreed to marry the young couple next day at ten : and the professional obstructor of bliss went home with Gerard 's angel . 
Like most of these very clever knaves , he was a fool , and proceeded to drink his angel at a certain hostelry in Tergou , where was a green devoted to archery and the common sports of the day . 
There , being drunk , he bragged of his day 's exploit ; and who should be there , imbibing every word , but a great frequenter of the spot , the ne'er - do-weel Sybrandt . 
Sybrandt ran home to tell his father ; his father was not at home ; he was gone to Rotterdam to buy cloth of the merchants . 
Catching his elder brother 's eye , he made him a signal to come out , and told him what he had heard . 
There are black sheep in nearly every large family : and these two were Gerard 's black brothers . 
On their return home they found their brother Gerard seated on a low stool at their mother 's knee : she was caressing his hair with her hand , speaking very kindly to him , and promising to take his part with his father and thwart his love no more . 
She had watched the effect with some misgivings , and had seen Gerard turn pale as death , and sit motionless like a bereaved creature , with the pieces in his hands , and his eyes fixed on them till tears came and blinded them . 
Then she was terrified at what she had done ; and next her heart smote her bitterly ; and she wept sore apart : but , being what she was , dared not own it , but said to herself , ` I 'll not say a word , but I 'll make it up to him . ' 
And her bowels yearned over her son , and her feeble violence died a natural death , and she was transferring her fatal alliance to Gerard when the two black sheep came in . 
Gerard knew nothing of the immediate cause ; on the contrary , inexperienced as he was in the ins and outs of females , her kindness made him ashamed of a suspicion he had entertained that she was the depredator ; and he kissed her again and again , and went to bed happy as a prince to think his mother was his mother once more at the very crisis of his fate . 
The next morning , at ten o'clock , Gerard and Margaret were in the church at Sevenbergen , he radiant with joy , she with blushes . 
And the constables of Tergou came up the aisle and seized Gerard in the name of the law . 
Gerard hung his head . 
` We take him to Rotterdam to abide the sentence of the duke . ' 
We but take him to our Stadthouse . ' 
They took him away on horseback , on the road to Rotterdam ; and , after a dozen halts , and by sly detours , to Tergou . 
Gerard was put into this , and about five in the evening was secretly conveyed into the prison of the Stadthouse . 
He was taken up several flights of stairs and thrust into a small room lighted only by a narrow window , with a vertical iron bar . 
Gerard felt he was in the hands of an enemy . 
Gerard sprang again at the window , and whistled . 
He turned hastily round and saw Gerard ; -- made him a signal , and taking up his line and bow went quickly off . 
Gerard saw by this that his friends were not idle : yet he had rather Martin had stayed . 
The window was a hundred feet from the ground ; and if Gerard had a fancy for jumping out , why should he balk it ? 
He brought a brown loaf and a pitcher of water , and set them on the chest in solemn silence . 
Gerard 's first impulse was to brain him with the iron bar , and fly down the stairs ; but the burgomaster seeing something wicked in his eye , gave a little cough , and three stout fellows , armed , showed themselves directly at the door . 
He then told them how he had looked up and seen Gerard 's face at a window that was like a slit in the wall . 
He looked like Gerard Eliassoen . ' 
Gerard gave them me to keep ; but what do they avail ? 
The burgomaster will not be bribed to let Gerard free . ' 
I shall tell you how a Florentine knight was shut up in a tower higher than Gerard 's : yet did his faithful squire stand at the tower foot and get him out , with no other engine than that in your hand , Martin , and certain kickshaws I shall buy for a crown . ' 
It was nine o'clock on a clear moonlight night ; Gerard , senior , was still away ; the rest of his little family had been sometime abed . 
With an unearthly noise , between a yell and a snarl , the gymnast rolled off his bed and under it by a single unbroken movement . 
A soft voice followed him in his retreat . 
Kate then revealed to Giles , that she had heard Cornelis and Sybrandt mention Gerard 's name ; and being herself in great anxiety at his not coming home all day , had listened at their door , and had made a fearful discovery . 
Gerard was in prison , in the haunted tower of the Stadthouse . 
He was there it seemed by their father 's authority . 
She ended by entreating Giles to bear her company to the foot of the haunted tower , to say a word of comfort to poor Gerard , and let him know their father was absent , and would be sure to release him on his return . 
As the sun declined , Gerard 's heart too sank and sank : with the waning light even the embers of hope went out . 
He was faint , too , with hunger ; for he was afraid to eat the food Ghysbrecht had brought him ; and hunger alone cows men . 
Gerard seized the oak chest , and with almost superhuman energy dragged it to the window : a moment ago he could not have moved it . 
Standing on the chest and looking down he saw figures at the tower foot . 
He waved his bonnet to them with trembling hand : then he undid the silk rapidly but carefully , and made one end fast to his knife and lowered it till it ceased to draw . 
Then he counted a hundred . 
At last he came to a large knot , and by that knot a stout whipcord was attached to the silk . 
While he was puzzling himself Margaret 's voice came up to him , low but clear . 
` Draw up , Gerard , till you see Liberty . ' 
At the word Gerard drew the whipcord line up , and drew and drew till he came to another knot , and found a cord of some thickness take the place of the whipcord . 
He had no sooner begun to draw this up than he found that he had now a heavy weight to deal with . 
Then the truth suddenly flashed on him , and he went to work and pulled and pulled till the perspiration rolled down him : the weight got heavier and heavier , and at last he was well nigh exhausted ; looking down he saw in the moonlight a sight that revived him : it was as it were a great snake coming up to him out of the deep shadow cast by the tower . 
He gave a shout of joy , and a score more wild pulls , and lo ! 
a stout new rope touched his hand : he hauled and hauled , and dragged the end into his prison and instantly passed it through both handles of the chest in succession , and knotted it firmly ; then sat for a moment to recover his breath and collect his courage . 
The first thing was to make sure that the chest was sound , and capable of resisting his weight poised in mid air . 
He jumped with all his force upon it . 
After the first start and misgiving this gave him , Gerard comprehended that the chest had not burst but opened : he had doubtless jumped upon some secret spring . 
Still it shook in some degree his confidence in the chest 's powers of resistance ; so he gave it an ally : he took the iron bar and fastened it with the small rope across the large rope , and across the window . 
He now mounted the chest , and from the chest put his foot through the window , and sat half in and half out , with one hand on that part of the rope which was inside . 
In the silent night he heard his own heart beat . 
The free air breathed on his face , and gave him the courage to risk what we must all lose one day -- for liberty . 
Many dangers awaited him , but the greatest was the first getting on to the rope outside . 
Gerard reflected . 
Finally he put himself in the attitude of a swimmer , his body to the waist being in the prison , his legs outside . 
Then holding the inside rope with both hands , he felt anxiously with his feet for the outside rope , and , when he had got it , he worked it in between the palms of his feet , and kept it there tight : then he uttered a short prayer , and , all the calmer for it , put his left hand on the sill and gradually wriggled out . 
Then he seized the iron bar , and for one fearful moment hung outside from it by his right hand , while his left hand felt for the rope down at his knees ; it was too tight against the wall for his fingers to get round it higher up . 
The moment he had fairly grasped it , he left the bar , and swiftly seized the rope with the right hand too ; but in this manoeuvre his body necessarily fell about a yard . 
Gerard hung in mid air . 
He clenched his teeth , and nipped the rope tight with his feet and gripped it with his hands , and went down slowly hand below hand . 
He passed by one huge rough stone after another . 
He saw there was green moss on one . 
He looked up and he looked down . 
The moon shone into his prison window : it seemed very near . 
It made him dizzy to look down : so he fixed his eyes steadily on the wall close to him , and went slowly down , down , down . 
He passed a rusty , slimy , streak on the wall : it was some ten feet long . 
The rope made his hands very hot . 
He stole another look up . 
The rope made his hands sore . 
He looked up . 
The window was so distant , he ventured now to turn his eyes downward again : and there , not more than thirty feet below him were Margaret and Martin , their faithful hands upstretched to catch him should he fall . 
` Take care , Gerard ! 
` Fear me not , ' cried Gerard , joyfully , and eyed the wall , but came down faster . 
In another minute his feet were at their hands . 
They seized him ere he touched the ground , and all three clung together in one embrace . 
` Give me my knife , ' whispered Gerard . 
Gerard and Margaret held their breath in horrible expectation : they had never seen a human being killed . 
And now a wild hope , but half repressed , thrilled through Gerard , that this watchful enemy might be the burgomaster in person . 
He let his arrow fall , and clutched Gerard 's shoulder . 
` Let me feel flesh and blood ' he gasped ; ` the haunted tower ! 
His terror communicated itself to Margaret and Gerard . 
he cried , ` it will hear you . 
` I have power to exorcise spirits , ' said Gerard , trembling . 
The strange glance of hatred the burgomaster had cast on Gerard , coupled with his imprisonment , had filled the young man with a persuasion that Ghysbrecht was his enemy to the death : and he glided round the angle of the tower , fully expecting to see no supernatural appearance , but some cruel and treacherous contrivance of a bad man to do him a mischief in that prison , his escape from which could hardly be known . 
Gerard and Margaret palpitated with awe . 
It is going up the rope , ' gasped Gerard . 
As they gazed , the glowworm disappeared in Gerard 's late prison , but its light illuminated the cell inside and reddened the window . 
She put down Gerard 's hand quietly , and stood bewildered ; then , all in a moment , with a wild cry , darted towards the spectre . 
Gerard , not aware of the natural impulse I have spoken of , never doubted the evil one was drawing her to her perdition . 
He fell on his knees . 
While the exorcist was shrieking his incantations in extremity of terror , to his infinite relief he heard the spectre utter a feeble cry of fear . 
He redoubled his exorcisms , and presently he saw the ghastly shape kneeling at Margaret 's knees , and heard it praying piteously for mercy . 
` Our Gerard has come down this rope . 
He has got clear . 
Where should our Gerard procure a rope ? 
Gerard came forward , and put the question at rest . 
said Gerard ; ` you speak too loud . 
` Will you not come home with me , Gerard ? ' 
I have no father , ' said Gerard , sternly . 
` He that was my father is turned my gaoler . 
I have escaped from his hands ; I will never come within their reach again . ' 
Gerard showed a bitterness of indignation he had hitherto seemed incapable of . 
` Oh , Gerard ! 
Gerard ! ' 
Margaret whispered her : -- ` Do not gainsay him now . 
Give his choler time to cool ! ' 
` I could not be happy without your love as well as Gerard 's . ' 
At this hint , Margaret wound gently round Gerard 's sister , and kissed her lovingly . 
` Often he has spoken of you to me , Kate , and often I longed for this . ' 
` You , too , Gerard , ' said Kate , ` kiss me ere you go , for my heart lies heavy at parting with you this night . ' 
Gerard kissed her , and she went on her crutches home . 
Then the tears came and stood thick in Margaret 's eyes ; but Gerard was a man , and noticed not his sister 's sigh . 
As they turned to go to Sevenbergen , the dwarf nudged Gerard with his bundle of parchments , and held out a concave claw . 
Margaret dissuaded Gerard . 
The burgomaster robbed me of my liberty ; I doubt I should take his life for it if I could . ' 
` Oh fie , Gerard ! ' 
Well , I ca n't take his life , so I take the first thing that comes to hand . ' 
He gave Giles a few small coins , with which the urchin was gladdened , and shuffled after his sister . 
Margaret and Gerard were speedily joined by Martin , and away to Sevenbergen . 
Ghysbrecht Van Swieten kept the key of Gerard 's prison in his pouch . 
He waited till ten of the clock ere he visited him ; for he said to himself , ` A little hunger sometimes does well ; it breaks ` em . ' 
At ten he crept up the stairs with a loaf and pitcher , followed by his trusty servant well armed . 
No Gerard . 
Although his face was not visible , his body seemed to lose all motion in so peculiar a way , and then after a little he fell a trembling so , that the servant behind him saw there was something amiss , and crept close to him and peeped over his shoulder . 
See you not that where Gerard Eliassoen is , there are the pieces of sheepskin you rate so high ? ' 
` Master , I will take the constables to Gerard 's house and seize him for the theft . ' 
So , as he is a thief now , we will put him in the dungeons below : where the toads are and the rats . 
In less than half an hour Dierich Brower and four constables entered the hosier 's house , and demanded young Gerard of the panic-stricken Catherine . 
what has he done now ? ' 
This smooth speech completely imposed on Catherine ; but her daughter was more suspicious , and that suspicion was strengthened by the disproportionate anger and disappointment Dierich showed the moment he learned Gerard was not at home , had not been at home that night . 
` Come away then , ' said he , roughly . 
He added , vehemently , ` I 'll find him if he is above ground . ' 
Gerard has left Tergou . ' 
` I saw him last night . ' 
` I know not ; but this I know ; my brother Gerard bade me there farewell , and he is many leagues from Tergou ere this . 
The town , you know , was always unworthy of him , and , when it imprisoned him , he vowed never to set foot in it again . 
He has imprisoned him , and he has driven him from his birthplace and from his native land . 
What need now to rob him and us of our good name ? ' 
This might at another moment have struck Dierich as good sense ; but he was too mortified at this escape of Gerard and the loss of a hundred crowns . 
` What need had he to steal ? ' 
retorted he , bitterly . 
` Gerard stole not the trash ; he but took it to spite the burgomaster , who stole his liberty ; but he shall answer to the duke for it , he shall . 
` This I know , that Gerard is too good to steal , and too wise to load himself with rubbish , going a journey . ' 
I have told Dirk Brower that Gerard is out of Holland : but much I doubt he is not a league from Tergou . ' 
` Why , where is he , then ? ' 
` Where should he be , but with her he loves ? 
But if so , he must not loiter . 
These be deep and dark and wicked men that seek him . 
Dear Giles , do you not love Gerard ? ' 
It would be known whither he was gone , and Gerard be in worse danger than before . 
Gerard and Margaret went gaily to Sevenbergen in the first flush of recovered liberty , and successful adventure . 
Gerard was an escaped prisoner , and liable to be retaken and perhaps punished ; and therefore he and Margaret would have to part for a time . 
Moreover he had conceived a hatred to his native place . 
Margaret wished him to leave the country for a while , but at the thought of his going to Italy her heart fainted . 
Gerard , on the contrary , was reconciled to leaving Margaret only by his desire to visit Italy , and his strong conviction that there he should earn money and reputation , and remove every obstacle to their marriage . 
He had already told her all that the demoiselle Van Eyck had said to him . 
He repeated it , and reminded Margaret that the gold pieces were only given him to go to Italy with . 
The journey was clearly for Gerard 's interest . 
He was a craftsman and an artist , lost in this boorish place . 
In Italy they would know how to value him . 
On this ground above all the unselfish girl gave her consent : but many tender tears came with it , and at that Gerard , young and loving as herself , cried bitterly with her , and often they asked one another what they had done , that so many different persons should be their enemies , and combine , as it seemed , to part them . 
They sat hand in hand till midnight , now deploring their hard fate , now drawing bright and hopeful pictures of the future , in the midst of which Margaret 's tears would suddenly flow , and then poor Gerard 's eloquence would die away in a sigh . 
` Brother Gerard , ' cried he , in his tremendous tones , ` Kate bids you run for your life . 
Kate is wise , Gerard . 
Gerard , ' cried Margaret , wildly . 
Gerard then , after thanking Giles warmly , bade him fare-well , and told him to go back , and tell Kate he was gone . 
` For I shall be gone , ere you reach home , ' said he . 
He then shouted for Martin ; and told him what had happened , and begged him to go a little way towards Tergou , and watch the road . 
Surprise thus provided against , Gerard breathed again . 
He went with Margaret , and , while she watched the oak-tree tremblingly , fearing every moment to see an arrow strike among the branches , Gerard dug a deep hole to bury the parchments in . 
He threw them in , one by one . 
` Why this is as much yours as his , ' said Gerard . 
` Oh , not now , Gerard , not now , ' cried Margaret . 
Gerard yielded to this remonstrance : but he put the deed into his bosom , and threw the earth in over the others , and stamped it down . 
Margaret and Gerard ran into the house , whither they were speedily followed by Martin . 
On this , Gerard put up the rough shutter , and lighted a candle . 
The lovers consulted together , and Gerard blessed the storm that gave him a few hours more with Margaret . 
Supper was set ; but Gerard and Margaret could not eat : the thought that this was the last time they should sup together , choked them . 
But Gerard was to go at peep of day , and neither he nor Margaret could afford to lose an hour in sleep . 
And Margaret moaned and wrung her hands in anguish and terror , and wild remorse for having kept Gerard . 
And with this she seized Gerard and almost dragged him up the rude steps that led to her father 's sleeping-room . 
` Now , Martin , where is Gerard Eliassoen ? ' 
` Gerard Eliassoen ? 
Why he was here but now ? ' 
` Here is a coil about Gerard Eliassoen , ' said Martin contemptuously . 
Any way , he started Gerard . 
For as soon as he was gone , there was such crying and kissing , and then Gerard went away . 
They do tell me he has gone to Italy -- mayhap you know where that is ; for I do n't . ' 
`` They have sent that imp to Gerard , '' says he , `` so , then , Gerard is at Sevenbergen . '' 
If he was at Sevenbergen , '' quoth I , `` and they sent the dwarf to him , it must have been to warn him we are after him . 
He is leagues away by now , '' quoth I. Confound that chalk-faced girl ! 
Gerard must be either in Peter 's room or Margaret 's ; they were not so very high from the ground . 
Gerard would leap out . 
For half a minute Gerard and he would be two to one , and in that brief space , what might not be done ? 
Had Gerard intended to escape that way he would not have waited till the men were in the room . 
He began to think Gerard must have escaped by the window while all the men were in the house . 
` They have taken him , ' groaned Martin ; ` they have got him . ' 
It now flashed across Martin 's mind that if they took Gerard away his life was not worth a button ; and that , if evil befel him , Margaret 's heart would break . 
He cast his eyes wildly round like some savage beast seeking an escape , and in a twinkling formed a resolution terribly characteristic of those iron times and of a soldier driven to bay . 
Two , he knew , he could dispose of by his arrows , ere they could get near him , and Gerard and he must take their chance hand to-hand , with the remaining pair . 
Besides , he had seen men panic-stricken by a sudden attack of this sort . 
Martin 's heart , stout as it was , beat hard , to hear men coming thus to their death , and , perhaps to his ; more likely so than not ; for four is long odds in a battle-field of ten feet square , and Gerard might be bound , perhaps , and powerless to help . 
They opened his cupboards ; they ran their knives into an alligator he had nailed to his wall ; they looked under his bed : it was a large room , and apparently full of hiding-places , but they found no Gerard . 
` Gerard ! 
They say that you and he -- ' ` Cruel ; you know they have driven him away from me -- driven him from his native place . 
You are thieves ; you are wicked men ; you are not men of Sevenbergen , or you would know Margaret Brandt better than to look for her lover in this room of all others in the world . 
A part of the boarding of the room had been broken , and Gerard being applied to to make it look neater , and being short of materials , had ingeniously sawed away a space sufficient just to admit Margaret 's soi-disant bed , and with the materials thus acquired he had repaired the whole room . 
Then she glided from the door , and leaned over the chest , and whispered tenderly , ` Gerard ! ' 
Gerard did not reply . 
She then whispered , a little louder , ` Gerard , all is safe , thank Heaven ! 
Gerard made no reply . 
She laid her hand upon his shoulder -- ` Gerard ! ' 
she cried , and her hands ran wildly over his face and his bosom . 
She took him by the shoulders ; she shook him ; she lifted him ; but he escaped from her trembling hands , and fell back , not like a man but like a body . 
Gerard , who had got alive into that chest scarce five minutes ago , how could he be dead ? 
She called him by all the endearing names that heart could think or tongue could frame . 
She kissed him and fondled him and coaxed him and implored him to speak to her . 
No answer to words of love , such as she had never uttered to him before , nor thought she could utter . 
` Oh , Gerard ! 
Oh , Gerard ! 
How can my Gerard be dead ? 
How can I have killed my Gerard ? 
I love him . 
you know how I love him . 
He does not . 
I never told him . 
If he knew my heart , he would speak to me , he would not be so deaf to his poor Margaret . 
It is all a trick to make me cry out and betray him : but , no , I love him too well for that . 
` If he would but say one word . 
Oh , Gerard ! 
Martin Wittenhaagen standing at the foot of the stairs with his arrow drawn nearly to the head and his knife behind him , was struck with amazement to see the men come back without Gerard : he lowered his bow , and looked open-mouthed at them . 
They , for their part , were equally puzzled at the attitude they had caught him in . 
The man that had the candle got clear away , and all the rest fell upon Martin , and after a long and fierce struggle , in the course of which they were more than once all rolling on the floor , with Martin in the middle , they succeeded in mastering the old Samson , and binding him hand and foot with a rope they had brought for Gerard . 
` He makes me think this Gerard is not far off , ' put in another . 
Stop -- let us try whether -- ' He took down a little round mirror , no bigger than his hand , and put it to Gerard 's mouth and nostrils , and held it there . 
When he withdrew it , it was dull . 
` There is life in him ! ' 
let us lay him warm , ' said Jorian ; and in a moment he raised Gerard , and laid him on the bed-clothes . 
Then he took out a flask he carried , and filled his hand twice with Schiedamze , and flung it sharply each time in Gerard 's face . 
The pungent liquor co-operated with his recovery -- he gave a faint sigh . 
She flew towards him , but then stopped , quivering for fear she should hurt him . 
` That is right -- let him alone , ' said Jorian : ` do n't go cuddling him as you did me , or you 'll drive his breath back again . 
Let him alone : he is sure to come to . 
'T is n't like as if he was an old man . ' 
Gerard sighed deeply , and a faint streak of colour stole to his lips . 
He had hardly reached it , when he found his legs seized from behind . 
She curled round his knees like a serpent , and kissed his hand , and fawned on him . 
You have saved his life ; you have not the heart to thrust him back into his grave , to undo your own good work ? ' 
It is not the first time I 've done you two a good turn ; 't was I told you in the church whither we had to take him . 
And Margaret knelt , quivering from head to foot , and prayed beside Gerard , and for Gerard . 
Thus Gerard , in one terrible night , grazed the prison and the grave . 
And how did he get clear at last ? 
Not by his cunningly contrived hiding-place , nor by Margaret 's ready wit ; but by a good impulse in one of his captors , by the bit of humanity left in a somewhat reckless fellow 's heart , aided by his desire of gain . 
Even to those who have joyed greatly , and greatly suffered , my feeble art can present but a pale reflection of Margaret 's and Gerard 's ecstasy . 
To sit and see a beloved face come back from the grave to the world , to health and beauty , by swift gradations ; to see the roses return to the loved cheek , love 's glance to the loved eye , and his words to the loved mouth ; this was Margaret 's -- a joy to balance years of sorrow . 
It was Gerard 's to awake from a trance , and find his head pillowed on Margaret 's arm ; to hear the woman he adored murmur new words of eloquent love , and shower tears and tender kisses and caresses on him . 
He never knew , till this sweet moment , how ardently , how tenderly , she loved him . 
He thanked his enemies . 
But as no woman 's nerves can bear with impunity so terrible a strain , presently Margaret turned faint , and sank on Gerard 's shoulder , smiling feebly , but quite , quite unstrung . 
Then Gerard was anxious , and would seek assistance . 
But she held him with a gentle grasp , and implored him not to leave her for a moment . 
Foolish Gerard ! 
Then it was Gerard 's turn to support that dear head , with its great waves of hair flowing loose over him , and nurse her , and soothe her , quivering on his bosom , with soft encouraging words and murmurs of love , and gentle caresses . 
Gerard , warned by recent peril , rose before day-break , and waked Martin . 
He thought Gerard had escaped by the window last night . 
Being consulted as to the best way for him to leave the country and elude pursuit , he said there was but one road safe . 
They started , Martin with his bow and three arrows , for it was Thursday : Gerard with nothing but a stout oak staff Peter gave him for the journey . 
Martin and Gerard followed Margaret 's example . 
The old man came galloping in a semicircle , and got on the edge of the wood , right in front of Gerard : the others might escape for ought he cared . 
Margaret shrieked and tried to protect Gerard by clasping him ; but he shook her off without ceremony . 
Ghysbrecht in his ardour forgot that hunted animals turn on the hunter ; and that two men can hate , and two can long to kill the thing they hate . 
Instead of attempting to dodge him , as the burgomaster made sure he would , Gerard flew right at him with a savage , exulting cry , and struck at him with all his heart and soul and strength . 
cried Gerard panting . 
` You have your bow ; and I have this : ' and he shook his bloody staff . 
Margaret moaned and panted , as she ran ; and Gerard clenched his teeth , and grasped his staff . 
` All Sevenbergen could not find you now ; you will lose your purse , Gerard , long before you get to Italy ; is that the way to carry a purse ? ' 
Gerard looked , and there was a large triangular purse , entangled by its chains to the buckle and strap of his wallet . 
` This is none of mine , ' said he . 
and he tried to detach it : but in passing through the coppice it had become inextricably entangled in his strap and buckle . 
` It seems loath to leave me , ' said Gerard , and he had to cut it loose with his knife . 
A light burst on Gerard . 
The wonder was , how the burgomaster 's purse came on Gerard . 
The purse must have been at Ghysbrecht 's saddle-bow , and Gerard rushing at his enemy , had unconsciously torn it away , thus felling his enemy and robbing him , with a single gesture . 
Gerard was delighted at this feat , but Margaret was uneasy . 
` Throw it away , Gerard , or let Martin take it back . 
` Oh , Gerard ! ' 
But Gerard saw it in a different light . 
Gerard kissed her tenderly in return for her wife-like docility , and they pursued their journey hand-in-hand , Martin leading the way , into the depths of the huge forest . 
Gerard was no sooner out of all danger , than his conscience began to prick him . 
And Gerard shook all over . 
Gerard fell on his knees , and began to pray for his enemy 's life . 
cried Gerard , and smote upon his breast . 
cried Margaret reproachfully : then she wreathed her arms round Gerard , and comforted him with the double magic of a woman 's sense and a woman 's voice . 
murmured she , ` you forget : you went not a step out of the way to harm him , who hunted you to your death . 
You fled from him . 
He it was who spurred on you . 
If then your enemy has fallen , it is through his own malice , not yours , and by the will of God . ' 
` Nay , Margaret , ' said Gerard . 
` And so did I , ' said Gerard : ` it was beautiful . 
` To stand at bay , Gerard , ' said Martin gravely ; ` and die like soldiers , killing three for one . ' 
Gerard , to whom the danger appeared slight in proportion as it was distant , urged him to flight . 
good Martin , ' cried Gerard : ` despair not so quickly : there must be some way to escape . ' 
Gerard 's life alone is forfeit . 
Is there no way to draw the pursuit on us twain and let him go safe ? ' 
He is not on this man 's track or that ; he is on the track of blood . 
My life o n't they have taken him to where Ghysbrecht fell , and from the dead man 's blood to the man that shed it that cursed hound will lead them , though Gerard should run through an army , or swim the Meuse . ' 
And again he leaned upon his bow , and his head sank . 
Yet the deer that sees it , loses all power of motion , and trembles , and awaits his death ; and even so , to compare hearing with sight , this sweet and mellow sound seemed to fascinate Martin Wittenhaagen . 
Gerard was little better now . 
She stepped behind Gerard , and furtively drew the knife across her arm , and made it bleed freely : then stooping . 
smeared her hose and shoes : and still as the blood trickled she smeared them ; but so adroitly that neither Gerard nor Martin saw . 
said Gerard . 
yes , Martin , ' cried Margaret , ` do not gainsay Gerard ? 
` Do then as you see me do , ' said Gerard ; and drawing his huge knife , he cut at every step a hazel shoot or two close by the ground , and turning round twisted them breast high behind him among the standing shoots . 
` No , ' said Gerard . 
` Never strike your enemy but to slay him , ' said Martin , gloomily . 
` I 'll hit harder this time , if Heaven gives me the chance , ' said Gerard . 
` I care not , ' said Gerard . 
` That is a good thought , Gerard ! ' 
Gerard now gave his orders in a whisper . 
A trembling hand was laid on Gerard 's shoulder . 
It made him start violently , strung up as he was . 
She ran back towards Martin ; but , ere she could get to him , suddenly a huge dog burst out of the coppice , and stood erect a moment . 
He lowered his nose an instant , and the next moment , with an awful yell , sprang straight at Gerard 's tree , and rolled head-over-heels dead as a stone , literally spitted by an arrow from the bow that twanged beside the coppice in Martin 's hand . 
Gerard rushed out at him ; but ere he could use his cudgel , a streak of white lightning seemed to strike the hound , and he grovelled in the dust , wounded desperately , but not killed , and howling piteously . 
Gerard had not time to despatch him : the coppice rustled too near : it seemed alive . 
Pointing wildly to Martin to go back , Gerard ran a few yards to the right , then crept cautiously into the thick coppice just as three men burst out . 
Gerard crawled back almost on all-fours . 
why did we part with Gerard ? 
They will kill my Gerard , and I not near him . ' 
the head to catch him is not on their shoulders . 
You bade him meet us at the ash-tree ? ' 
She saw this man must die or Gerard . 
A kerchief went over the burgomaster , in a turn of the hand his head was muffled in it , and he was whirled from his seat and fell heavily upon the ground , where he lay groaning with terror ; and Gerard jumped down after him . 
cried Gerard . 
In a moment Martin was on Ghysbrecht 's mule , and Gerard raised the fainting girl in his arms and placed her on the saddle , and relieved Martin of his bow . 
` Silence , cur , ' roared Gerard , and trode him down again by the throat as men crush an adder . 
But even as the mule , urged suddenly by Martin 's heel , scattered the flints with his hind hoofs ere he got into a canter , and even as Gerard withdrew his foot from Ghysbrecht 's throat to run , Dierich Brower and his five men , who had come back for orders , and heard the burgomaster 's cries , burst roaring out of the coppice on them . 
Confused for a moment , like lions that miss their spring , Dierich and his men let Gerard and the mule put ten yards between them . 
From Peter 's house to the edge of the forest Gerard ran Margaret 's pace ; but now he ran his own ; for the mule was fleet , and could have left them all far behind . 
Then Dierich made a desperate effort , and gained two yards ; but in a few seconds Gerard had stolen them quietly back . 
` Courage , Gerard ! 
Jorian Ketel tailed off next ; and then another , and so , one by one , Gerard ran them all to a standstill , except one who kept on stanch as a bloodhound , though losing ground every minute . 
His name , if I am not mistaken , was Eric Wouverman . 
Gerard obeyed , and the mule helped him up the hill faster even than he was running before . 
At the sight of this manoeuvre Dierich 's man lost heart , and , being now full eighty yards behind Gerard , and rather more than that in advance of his nearest comrade , he pulled up short , and , in obedience to Dierich 's order , took down his crossbow , levelled it deliberately , and just as the trio were sinking out of sight over the crest of the hill , sent the bolt whizzing among them . 
They saw Gerard and Margaret running along at a prodigious distance ; they looked like gnats ; and Martin galloping after them ventre à terre . 
Gerard caught Margaret , but was carried down by her weight and impetus ; and , behold , the soil was strewed with dramatis personæ . 
He now galloped after his companions , and , when after a long race he caught them , he instantly put Gerard and Margaret on the mule , and ran by their side till his breath failed , then took his turn to ride , and so in rotation . 
Thus Gerard and Margaret , though they started at every leaf that rustled louder than its fellows , glowed all over with joy and thankfulness as they glided among the friendly trees in safety and deep tranquil silence , baying dogs and brutal voices yet ringing in their mind 's ears . 
But presently Gerard found stains of blood on Margaret 's ankles . 
cried Gerard , in great agitation . 
` No , dear Gerard . 
Well , then , Martin said it was blood those cruel dogs followed ; so I thought , if I could but have a little blood on my shoon , the dogs would follow me instead , and let my Gerard wend free . 
Yours , Gerard ? 
` Let me see this scratch first , ' said Gerard , choking with emotion . 
Gerard shuddered at sight of it . 
` Foolish Gerard , ' murmured she , ` to make so much of nothing . ' 
And she flung the guilty arm round his neck . 
And , with this , under the sense of his recent danger , she wept on his neck for pity and love : and he wept with her . 
` And I must part from her , ' he sobbed , ` we two that love so dear -- one must be in Holland , one in Italy . 
To utter her present thoughts would be to add to Gerard 's misery at parting , so she wept in silence . 
Margaret and Gerard cast a scared look at one another . 
` Come a step with me , Martin , ' whispered Gerard . 
When he had drawn him aside , he said to him in a broken voice , ` Good Martin , watch over her for me ! 
` Thou art a good lad , Gerard . 
And the rough soldier wrung Gerard 's hand , and turned his head away , with unwonted feeling . 
After a moment 's silence , he was for going back to Margaret ; but Gerard stopped him . 
By this means Gerard escaped a witness of his anguish at leaving her he loved , and Martin escaped a piteous sight . 
But he heard Gerard sob , and sob , and Margaret moan . 
He started up , and there was Gerard running wildly , with both hands clasped above his head , in prayer , and Margaret tottering back towards him with palms extended piteously , as if for help , and ashy cheek , and eyes fixed on vacancy . 
He caught her in his arms , and spoke words of comfort to her ; but her mind could not take them in ; only at the sound of his voice she moaned and held him tight , and trembled violently . 
He got her on the mule , and put his arm round her , and so , supporting her frame , which , from being strung like a bow , had now turned all relaxed and powerless , he took her slowly and sadly home . 
At the edge of the wood he took her off the mule , and bade her go across to her father 's house . 
Gerard , severed from her he loved , went like one in a dream . 
He hired a horse and a guide at the little hostelry , and rode swiftly towards the German frontier . 
But all was mechanical ; his senses felt blunted ; trees and houses and men moved by him like objects seen through a veil . 
His companion spoke to him twice , but he did not answer . 
Only once he cried out savagely , ` Shall we never be out of this hateful country ? ' 
Gerard dismounted without a word , and took the burgomaster 's purse from his girdle : while he opened it , ` You will soon be out of this hateful country , ' said his guide , half sulkily ; ` mayhap the one you are going to will like you no better : any way , though it be a church you have robbed , they can not take you , once across that bourn . ' 
They fell on Gerard now like idle air . 
He paid the lad in silence , and descended the hill alone . 
The brook was silvery : it ran murmuring over little pebbles , that glittered , varnished by the clear water : he sat down and looked stupidly at them . 
Then he drank of the brook : then he laved his hot feet and hands in it ; it was very cold : it waked him . 
He rose , and , taking a run , leaped across it into Germany . 
Even as he touched the strange land he turned suddenly and looked back . 
he cried . 
Gerard took out a little dial Peter had given him , and set it in the autumn sun , and by this compass steered unhesitatingly for Rome ; inexperienced as a young swallow flying south , but , unlike the swallow , wandering south alone . 
inquired Gerard . 
The servants burst into a hoarse laugh at the simplicity of Gerard 's question . 
But suddenly Ulric stopped , and eyeing him all over , said very gravely , ` Who are you , and where born , that know not the count is ever drunk at this hour ? ' 
and Gerard found himself a suspected character . 
` I am a stranger , ' said he , ` but a true man , and one that loves knowledge : therefore ask I questions , and not for love of prying . ' 
Gerard looked blank . 
But , putting a good face on it , said , ` Trinkgeld you shall have , such as my lean purse can spare , an if you will tell me why ye have ta'en his cloak from the man , and laid it on the beast . ' 
Under the inspiring influence of coming trinkgeld two solutions were instantly offered Gerard at once : the one was , that , should the count come to himself -LRB- which , being a seasoned toper , he was apt to do all in a minute -RRB- , and find his horse standing sweating in the cold , while a cloak lay idle at hand , he would fall to cursing , and per-adventure to laying on ; the other , more pretentious , was , that a horse is a poor milksop , which , drinking nothing but water , has to be cockered up and warmed outside ; but a master , being a creature ever filled with good beer , has a store of inward heat that warms him to the skin , and renders a cloak a mere shred of idle vanity . 
` In which hurtling ' Gerard turned his back on them all , and went calmly south , glad to have saved the four tin farthings he had got ready for trinkgeld , but far too heavy hearted even to smile at their drunken extravagance . 
The sun was nearly setting , and Gerard , who had now for some time been hoping in vain to find an inn by the way , was very ill at ease . 
Gerard quickened his pace almost to a run . 
Gerard trudged on , dark , and wet , and in an unknown region . 
to leave Margaret , ' said he . 
He was entering a great wood . 
Now Gerard , like most artists , had sensitive organs , and the potent effluvia struck dismay into him . 
But the rain lashed him outside , and the light and the fire tempted him in . 
He could not force his way all at once through the palpable perfumes ; but he returned to the light again and again like the singed moth . 
At last he discovered that the various smells did not entirely mix , no fiend being there to stir them round . 
He found too , by hasty analysis , that of these the garlic described the smallest aërial orbit , and the scent of reeking rustic darted farthest ; a flavour , as if ancient goats , or the fathers of all foxes , had been drawn through a river , and were here dried by Nebuchadnezzar . 
So Gerard crept into a corner close to the door . 
Gerard was too tired and faint for the labour of argument : so he turned the conversation , and asked where he could find the landlord . 
At this fresh display of ignorance the native 's contempt rose too high for words ; he pointed to a middle-aged woman seated on the other side of the oven , and , turning to his mates , let them know what an outlandish animal was in the room . 
Thereat the loud voices stopped one by one , as the information penetrated the mass , and each eye turned as on a pivot , following Gerard , and his every movement , silently and zoologically . 
Gerard asked her if he could have something to eat . 
Gerard looked blank . 
said he sulkily , ` for it is ill sitting up wet and fasting , and the byword saith `` he sups who sleeps . 
It was Gerard 's turn to be astonished . 
But he was afraid to ask , for every word he had spoken hitherto had amazed the assembly ; and zoological eyes were upon him -- he felt them . 
He leaned against the wall and sighed audibly . 
` So this is Germany , ' thought Gerard , ` and Germany is a great country by Holland . 
He consoled himself by reflecting it was to be his last , as well as his first , night in the land . 
His reverie was interrupted by an elbow driven into his ribs . 
He turned sharp on his assailant ; who pointed across the room . 
Gerard looked , and a woman in the corner was beckoning him . 
He went towards her gingerly , being surprised and irresolute , so that to a spectator her beckoning finger seemed to be pulling him across the floor with a gut line . 
When he had got up to her , ` hold the child , ' said she in a fine hearty voice , and in a moment she plumped the bairn into Gerard 's arms . 
He stood transfixed , jelly of lead in his hands , and sudden horror in his elongated countenance . 
She was rummaging among her clothes with the two penetrating hands , one of which Gerard had set free . 
Presently she fished out a small tin plate and a dried pudding , and resuming her child with one arm , held them forth to Gerard with the other , keeping a thumb on the pudding to prevent it from slipping off . 
Gerard thanked her warmly : but on his way to the stove his eye fell on the landlady . 
said he beseechingly . 
Coming to the stove , Gerard found the oven door obstructed by ` the rammish clowns . ' 
He hesitated a moment : the landlady saw , calmly put down her work , and coming up pulled a hircine man or two hither , and pushed a hircine man or two thither , with the impassive countenance of a housewife moving her furniture . 
Debarred the stove they trundled home all but one , who stood like a table where the landlady had moved him to like a table , and Gerard baked his pudding , and , getting to the stove , burst into steam . 
Gerard took out his pudding and found it delicious . 
While he was relishing it , the woman who had given it him , and who was now abed , beckoned him again . 
He went to her bundle side . 
Gerard returned to the stove , and gobbled the rest of his sausage , casting uneasy glances at the landlady seated silent as fate amid the prostrate multitude . 
The food bolted , he went to her and said , ` Thank you kindly , dame , for waiting for me . ' 
` You are welcome , ' said she calmly , making neither much nor little of the favour ; and with that began to gather up the feathers : but Gerard stopped her . 
` Nay , that is my task ; ' and he went down on his knees and collected them with ardour . 
She watched him demurely . 
Gerard to his straw in the very corner , for the guests lay round the sacred stove by seniority , i.e. priority of arrival . 
This punishment was a boon to Gerard , for thus he lay on the shore of odour and stifling heat , instead of in mid ocean . 
He was just dropping off , when he was awaked by a noise , and lo ! 
` It was I , ' cried Gerard . 
` She bade me say , `` one good turn deserves another , '' and so here 's your night-cap , ' and he thrust a great oaken mug under Gerard 's nose . 
and his gratitude ended in a wry face , for the beer was muddy , and had a strange medicinal twang new to the Hollander . 
And now Gerard turned his face to the wall and pulled up two handfuls of the nice clean straw , and bored in them with his finger , and so made a scabbard , and sheathed his nose in it . 
And soon they were all asleep : men , maids , wives , and children , all lying higgledy-piggledy , and snoring in a dozen keys like an orchestra slowly tuning ; and Gerard 's body lay on straw in Germany , and his spirit was away to Sevenbergen . 
When he woke in the morning he found nearly all his fellow-passengers gone . 
He paid the landlady her demand , two pfenning , or about an English halfpenny , and he of the pitchfork demanded trinkgeld , and getting a trifle more than usual , and seeing Gerard eye a foaming milk-pail he had just brought from the cow , hoisted it up bodily to his lips . 
` Drink your fill , man , ' said he , and on Gerard offering to pay for the delicious draught , told him in broad patois , that a man might swallow a skinful of milk , or a breakfast of air , without putting hand to pouch . 
At the door Gerard found his benefactress of last night , and a huge-chested artisan , her husband . 
Gerard thanked her , and in the spirit of the age offered her a creutzer for her pudding . 
But she repulsed his hand quietly . 
Then Gerard blushed in his turn and stammered excuses . 
` Give the vixen a kiss for her pudding , and cry quits , ' said he with an air impartial , judge-like and Jove-like . 
Gerard obeyed the lofty behest , and kissed the wife 's cheek . 
` A blessing go with you both , good people , ' said he . 
The air was fresh and bracing , and Gerard steered south , and did not even remember his resolve of over night . 
Eight leagues he walked that day , and in the afternoon came upon a huge building with an enormous arched gateway and a postern by its side . 
cried he joyfully ; ` I go no further lest I fare worse . ' 
He applied at the postern , and , on stating whence he came and whither bound , was instantly admitted and directed to the guest chamber , a large and lofty room , where travellers were fed and lodged gratis by the charity of the monastic orders . 
Soon the bell tinkled for vespers , and Gerard entered the church of the convent , and from his place heard a service sung so exquisitely , it seemed the choir of heaven . 
But one thing was wanting , Margaret was not there to hear it with him , and this made him sigh bitterly in mid rapture . 
At supper , plain but wholesome and abundant food , and good beer , brewed in the convent , were set before him and his fellows , and at an early hour they were ushered into a large dormitory , and , the number being moderate , had each a truckle bed , and for covering sheepskins dressed with the fleece on : but previously to this a monk , struck by his youth and beauty , questioned him , and soon drew out his projects and his heart . 
said Gerard to himself . 
That evening he came to a small straggling town where was one inn . 
It had no sign ; but being now better versed in the customs of the country he detected it at once by the coats of arms on its walls . 
Gerard hammered on the great oak door : no answer . 
He hallooed : no reply . 
After a while he hallooed louder , and at last a little round window , or rather hole in the wall , opened , a man 's head protruded cautiously , like a tortoise 's from its shell , and eyed Gerard stolidly , but never uttered a syllable . 
asked Gerard with a covert sneer . 
Gerard followed the indication , and after some research discovered that the fortification had one vulnerable part , a small low door on its flank . 
As for the main entrance , that was used to keep out thieves and customers , except once or twice in a year , when they entered together , i.e. when some duke or count arrived in pomp with his train of gaudy ruffians . 
Gerard , having penetrated the outer fort , soon found his way to the stove -LRB- as the public room was called from the principal article in it -RRB- , and sat down near the oven , in which were only a few live embers that diffused a mild and grateful heat . 
After waiting patiently a long time , he asked a grim old fellow with a long white beard , who stalked solemnly in , and turned the hour-glass and then was stalking out -- when supper would be . 
The grisly Ganymede counted the guests on his fingers -- ` When I see thrice as many here as now . ' 
Gerard groaned . 
` Inns are not built for one , ' said he ; ` if you ca n't wait for the rest , look out for another lodging . ' 
Gerard sighed . 
Gerard pounced on one of these , but at sight of the liquid contents lost his temper and said to the waiter , ` Wash you first your water , and then a man may wash his hands withal . ' 
Gerard said nothing , but went quietly and courteously besought an old traveller to tell him how far it was to the next inn . 
Then Gerard appreciated the grim pleasantry of th ' unbending sire . 
That worthy now returned with an armful of wood , and , counting the travellers , put on a log for every six , by which act of raw justice the hotter the room the more heat he added . 
Poor Gerard noticed this little flaw in the ancient man 's logic , but carefully suppressed every symptom of intelligence , lest his feet should have to carry his brains four leagues farther that night . 
Gerard pointed ruefully to the dirty sackcloth . 
A Burgundian soldier with his arbalest at his back came peeping over Gerard 's shoulder , and , seeing what was amiss , laughed so loud that the room rang again , then slapped him on the back and cried , ` Courage ! 
Gerard stared : he doubted alike the good tidings and their relevancy : but the tones were so hearty and the arbalestrier 's face , notwithstanding a formidable beard , was so gay and genial , that he smiled , and after a pause said drily , ` Il a bien fait : avec l'eau et linge du pays on allait le noircir à ne se reconnaître plus . ' 
cried the soldier , ` v ` là qui parle le Français , peu s ` en faut , ' and he seated himself by Gerard , and in a moment was talking volubly of war , women , and pillage , interlarding his discourse with curious oaths , at which Gerard drew away from him more or less . 
Presently in came the grisly servant , and counted them all on his fingers superciliously , like Abraham telling sheep , then went out again and returned with a deal trencher and deal spoon to each . 
Then he brought them a long mug apiece made of glass , and frowned . 
By and by he stalked gloomily in with a hunch of bread apiece , and exit with an injured air . 
Slices of Strasbourg ham followed , and pieces of salt fish , both so highly salted that Gerard could hardly swallow a mouthful . 
Gerard made an effort and looked angrily at them , but ` could no more ' as the poets say . 
The Burgundian swore by the liver and pike-staff of the good centurion , the natives had outwitted him . 
Then turning to Gerard , he said , ` Courage , l'ami , le diable est mort , ' as loudly as before , but not with the same tone of conviction . 
cried Gerard , ` I see none . 
` Nay , not so , ' said Gerard . 
Gerard raised his voice in uttering this , and the company received the paradox in dead silence , and with a distrustful air , like any other stranger , during which the Burgundian , who understood German but imperfectly , made Gerard Gallicise the discussion . 
` C'est bien , mon gars : plus fin que toi n'est pas bête , ' and administered his formula of encouragement ; and Gerard edged away from him ; for next to ugly sights and ill odours the poor wretch disliked profaneness . 
Gerard timidly observed that he had drunk next to no beer , and inquired how much less he was to pay than the others . 
Gerard was abashed . 
` You are as bad as he is , ' said the old man peevishly , ` you are paying too much ; ' and the tyrannical old Aristides returned him some coin out of the trencher with a most reproachful countenance . 
And now the man , whom Gerard had confuted an hour and a half ago , awoke from a brown study , in which he had been ever since , and came to him and said , ` Yes : but the honey is none the worse for passing through the bees ' bellies . ' 
Gerard stared . 
The answer had been so long on the road he had n't an idea what it was an answer to . 
Seeing him dumbfoundered , the other concluded him confuted , and withdrew calmed . 
They assigned to Gerard a man with a great black beard . 
He was an honest fellow enough ; but not perfect ; he would not go to bed , and would sit on the edge of it telling the wretched Gerard by force , and at length , the events of the day , and alternately laughing and crying at the same circumstances , which were not in the smallest degree pathetic or humorous , but only dead trivial . 
At last Gerard put his fingers in his ears , and lying down in his clothes , for the sheets were too dirty for him to undress , contrived to sleep . 
But in an hour or two he awoke cold , and found that his drunken companion had got all the feather bed ; so mighty is instinct . 
Gerard pulled at it , but the experienced drunkard held it fast mechanically . 
Gerard tried to twitch it away by surprise ; but instinct was too many for him . 
On this he got out of bed , and , kneeling down on his bed-fellow 's unguarded side , easily whipped the prize away and rolled with it under the bed , and there lay on one edge of it , and curled the rest round his shoulders . 
Before he slept he often heard something grumbling and growling above him , which was some little satisfaction . 
At peep of day Gerard rose , flung the feather bed upon his snoring companion , and went in search of milk and air . 
A cheerful voice hailed him in French : ` What ho ! 
` He rises betimes that lies in a dog 's lair , ' answered Gerard , crossly . 
` My name is Gerard , and I am going to Rome , ' said the more reserved Hollander , and in a way that invited no further confidences . 
` There go two words to that bargain , ' said Gerard , coldly . 
-LRB- Gerard turned pale . -RRB- 
and he undid his belt , and poured out of it a double handful of gold pieces , then returned them to their hiding-place . 
Gerard stared . 
But he flushed and looked pleased at the other 's trust in him . 
` Soldier , you would find me a dull companion , for my heart is very heavy , ' said Gerard , yielding . 
` I think you would , ' said Gerard , sweetly ; ` and sore need have I of a kindly voice in mine ear this day . ' 
` So be it then , ' said Gerard . 
He chattered about battles and sieges , and things which were new to Gerard ; and he was one of those who make little incidents wherever they go . 
He passed nobody without addressing him . 
` They do n't understand it , but it wakes them up , ' said he . 
But , whenever they fell in with a monk or priest , he pulled a long face , and sought the reverend father 's blessing , and fearlessly poured out on him floods of German words in such order as not to produce a single German sentence . 
He doffed his cap to every woman , high or low , he caught sight of , and with eagle eye discerned her best feature , and complimented her on it in his native tongue , well adapted to such matters : and , at each carrion crow or magpie , down came his cross-bow , and he would go a furlong off the road to circumvent it ; and indeed he did shoot one old crow with laudable neatness and despatch , and carried it to the nearest hen-roost , and there slipped in and set it upon a nest . 
''' ` No , you forget , he is dead , ' objected Gerard . 
` So he is , so he is . 
Gerard asked for supper . 
snorted Gerard in Dutch . 
Not so Gerard . 
whined Gerard . 
asked Gerard eagerly , being a youth inoculated with monkish tales . 
`` You are sped , '' said I , so made up to him , and true enough he was dead , but warm , you know . 
I took my lord in my arms ; but was too weak to carry him : so rolled with him into a ditch hard by : and there my comrades found me in the morning properly stung with nettles and hugging a dead Fleming for the bare life . ' 
Gerard shuddered . 
In the morning Gerard was wakened by a liquid hitting his eye , and it was Denys employing the cow 's udder as a squirt . 
cried Gerard , ` to waste the good milk : ' and he took a horn out of his wallet . 
but indeed I see not what right we have to meddle with her milk at all . ' 
To-day we make as free with her . ' 
` Why what did she do , poor thing ? ' 
She ate our pillow from us , we drink our pillow from her . 
A votre santé , madame ; et sans rancune ; ' and the dog drank her to her own health . 
` The ancient was right though , ' said Gerard . 
These three towns proved types and repeated themselves with slight variations for many a weary league : but , even when he could get neither a convent nor a cow-house , Gerard learned in time to steel himself to the inevitable , and to emulate his comrade , whom he looked on as almost superhuman for hardihood of body and spirit . 
Denys , like his predecessor Achilles , had his weak part , his very weak part thought Gerard . 
His foible was ` woman . ' 
Whatever he was saying or doing , he stopped short at sight of a farthingale , and his whole soul became occupied with that garment and its inmate till they had disappeared ; and sometimes for a good while after . 
He often put Gerard to the blush by talking his amazing German to such females as he caught standing or sitting in doors or out ; at which they stared ; and when he met a peasant girl on the road , he took off his cap to her and saluted her as if she was a queen . 
inquired Gerard ; ` and some of them no shoon ? 
` Then let them alone , sith they are not to your taste , ' retorted Gerard . 
cried Gerard contemptuously . 
One day about noon they reached a town of some pretensions , and Gerard was glad , for he wanted to buy a pair of shoes : his own were quite worn out . 
Denys and Gerard stood and contemplated this curiosity ; emblem , permit me to remark , of the lets and hindrances to commerce that characterized his epoch . 
` That will I not , ' said Gerard . 
` Then here goes ; I 'll prong him with this . ' 
Gerard seized the mad fellow 's arm in dismay , for he had been long enough in the country to guess that the whole town would take part in any brawl with the native against a stranger . 
Denys and Gerard followed the dignity into the shop , where sat the apprentice at dinner ; the maid stood outside with her insteps crossed , leaning against the wall , and tapping it with her nails . 
Finding she had a willing victim , she abused the opportunity , tried first one pair , then another , then the first again , and so on , balancing and hesitating for about half an hour , to Gerard 's disgust and Denys 's weak delight . 
The lady departed : Gerard fitted himself with a stout pair , asked the price , paid it without a word , and gave his old ones to a beggar in the street , who blessed him in the market-place , and threw them furiously down a well in the suburbs . 
Gerard bought one and practised with it . 
One day , being in a forest a few leagues from Dusseldorf , as Gerard was walking like one in a dream , thinking of Margaret , and scarce seeing the road he trode , his companion laid a hand on his shoulder , and strung his cross-bow with glittering eye . 
said he in a low whisper , that startled Gerard more than thunder . 
Gerard grasped his axe tight , and shook a little : he heard a rustling in the wood hard by , and at the same moment Denys sprang into the wood , and his cross-bow went to his shoulder , even as he jumped . 
Gerard darted forward , and , as he ran , a young bear burst out of the wood right upon him : finding itself intercepted , it went up on its hind legs with a snarl , and , though not half grown , opened formidable jaws and long claws . 
Gerard in a fury of excitement and agitation flung himself on it , and delivered a tremendous blow on its nose with his axe , and the creature staggered ; another , and it lay grovelling with Gerard hacking it . 
` I took it for a robber , ' said Gerard , panting . 
` We will carry it by turns then , ' said Gerard , ` for 't is a heavy load : poor thing how its blood drips . 
` What , know you not that his mother was caught in a pitfall last month , and her skin is now at the tanner 's ? 
But Gerard would not view it jestingly : ` Why then , ' said he , ` we have killed one of God 's creatures that was all alone in the world -- as I am this day , in this strange land . ' 
Gerard sighed : ` In sooth I love not to think of this Dusseldorf , where we are to part company , good friend . ' 
Gerard asked Denys to lend him a bolt . 
Gerard strung the bow , and levelled it at a bough that had fallen into the road at some distance . 
The power of the instrument surprised him ; the short but thick steel bow jarred him to the very heel as it went off , and the swift steel shaft was invisible in its passage ; only the dead leaves , with which November had carpeted the narrow road , flew about on the other side of the bough . 
You see , Gerard , war is not pastime . 
Gerard did not answer ; for his ear was attracted by a sound behind them . 
He turned round with some little curiosity . 
He looked at it in a sort of calm stupor at first ; but the next moment he turned ashy pale . 
screamed Denys , but Gerard stood shaking from head to foot , useless . 
and he dropped the cub , pushed Gerard across the road , and flew to the first tree and climbed it , Gerard the same on his side ; and , as they fled , both men uttered inhuman howls like savage creatures grazed by death . 
With all their speed one or other would have been torn to fragments at the foot of his tree ; but the bear stopped a moment at the cub . 
Gerard 's heart was better than his nerves . 
He saw his friend 's mortal danger , and passed at once from fear to blindish rage . 
He slipped down his tree in a moment , caught up the cross-bow , which he had dropped in the road , and , running furiously up , sent a bolt into the bear 's body with a loud shout . 
Gerard ran back to his tree and climbed it swiftly . 
But while his legs were dangling some eight feet from the ground , the bear came rearing and struck with her fore paw , and out flew a piece of bloody cloth from Gerard 's hose . 
He climbed , and climbed ; and presently he heard as it were in the air a voice say , ` Go out on the bough ! ' 
He looked , and there was a long massive branch before him shooting upwards at a slight angle ; he threw his body across it , and by a series of convulsive efforts worked up it to the end . 
Then he looked round panting . 
He heard her claws scrape , and saw her bulge on both sides of the massive tree . 
Her eye not being very quick she reached the fork and passed it , mounting the main stem . 
Gerard drew breath more freely . 
The bear either heard him , or found by scent she was wrong : she paused ; presently she caught sight of him . 
She eyed him steadily ; then quietly descended to the fork . 
Slowly and cautiously she stretched out a paw and tried the bough . 
Gerard looked wildly down . 
He was forty feet from the ground . 
Death moving slow but sure on him in a still more horrible form . 
His hair bristled . 
The sweat poured from him . 
He sat helpless , fascinated , tongue-tied . 
As the fearful monster crawled growling towards him , incongruous thoughts coursed through his mind . 
Again the cross-bow twanged : and the next moment the bear was close upon Gerard , where he sat , with hair standing stiff on end , and eyes starting from their sockets , palsied . 
The bear opened her jaws like a grave ; and hot blood spouted from them upon Gerard as from a pump . 
The wounded monster was reeling ; it clung , it stuck its sickles of claws deep into the wood ; it toppled , its claws held firm , but its body rolled off , and the sudden shock to the branch shook Gerard forward on his stomach with his face upon one of the bear 's straining paws . 
At this , by a convulsive effort , she raised her head up , up , till he felt her hot fetid breath . 
Then huge teeth snapped together loudly close below him in the air , with a last effort of baffled hate . 
There was a shout of triumph below , and the very next instant a cry of dismay ; for Gerard had swooned , and , without an attempt to save himself , rolled headlong from the perilous height . 
Denys caught at Gerard , and somewhat checked his fall : but it may be doubted whether this alone would have saved him from breaking his neck or a limb . 
His best friend now was the dying bear , on whose hairy carcass his head and shoulders descended . 
Denys tore him off her . 
She panted still , and her limbs quivered , but a hare was not so harmless ; and soon she breathed her last : and the judicious Denys propped Gerard up against her , being soft , and fanned him . 
inquired Gerard from behind a tree ; for his courage was feverish , and the cold fit was on him just now , and had been for some time . 
` Behold , ' said Denys , and pulled the brute 's ear playfully , and opened her jaws , and put in his head , with other insulting antics ; in the midst of which Gerard was violently sick . 
Gerard , for answer , flung his arms round Denys 's neck in silence . 
And Gerard kneeled and prayed aloud . 
And presently he found Denys kneeling quiet beside him , with his hands across his bosom , after the custom of his nation , and a face as long as his arm . 
When they rose Gerard 's countenance was beaming . 
cried Gerard . 
you only feel when another is hurt , ' cried Denys , with great emotion , and throwing himself on his knees he examined Gerard 's leg with glistening eyes . 
before it stiffens , ' he cried : and hurried him on . 
inquired Gerard composedly . 
Ere they had walked many furlongs , the muscles of the wounded leg contracted and stiffened , till presently Gerard could only just put his toe to the ground , and that with great pain . 
At last he could bear it no longer . 
` Let me lie down and die , ' he groaned , ` for this is intolerable . ' 
So Gerard leaned upon his axe and hobbled on , but presently he gave in all of a sudden , and sank helpless in the road . 
With this he snatched up Gerard 's axe and set off running , not , as Gerard expected , towards Dusseldorf , but on the road they had come . 
Gerard lay aching and smarting , and to him Rome , that seemed so near at starting , looked far , far , off , now that he was two hundred miles nearer it . 
But soon all his thoughts turned Sevenbergen-wards . 
How sweet it would be one day to hold Margaret 's hand and tell her all he had gone through for her ! 
The very thought of it , and her , soothed him , and in the midst of pain and irritation of the nerves he lay resigned , and sweetly , though faintly , smiling . 
He had lain thus more than two hours , when suddenly there were shouts , and the next moment something struck a tree hard by and quivered in it . 
He looked , it was an arrow . 
He started to his feet . 
Whence they came he could not tell , for noises in these huge woods are so reverberated that a stranger is always at fault as to their where about ; but they seemed to fill the whole air . 
Gerard was struck with awe . 
Gerard welcomed him with a burst of joy that astonished him . 
Gerard took his arm and quietly pointed to a tree close by . 
` Why it looks like -- it is -- a broad arrow as I live : ' and he went close and looked up at it . 
Well , if this is not glamour there has been a trifle of a battle : and if there has been a battle in so ridiculous a place for a battle as this , why then 't is no business of mine , for my duke hath no quarrel hereabouts ; so let 's to bed , ' said the professional : and with this he scraped together a heap of leaves , and made Gerard lie on it , his axe by his side : he then lay down beside him with one hand on his arbalest , and drew the bearskin over them , hair inward . 
But long before the dawn Gerard woke his comrade . 
` But I tell you I am too hungry to sleep , ' snapped Gerard . 
Gerard leaned on his axe , and , propped by Denys on the other side , hobbled along not without sighs . 
` I hate pain , ' said Gerard , viciously . 
` I go no farther till I know what this is , ' said Gerard , in an agitated whisper ; ` are they effigies of the saints , for men to pray to on the road ? 
Gerard was for turning back all the more . 
Following this direction , Gerard presently discerned the outline of a dark wooden beam passing from pillar to pillar ; and , as the pair got nearer , walking now on tiptoe , one by one dark snake-like cords came out in the moonlight , each pendent from the beam to a dead man , and tight as wire . 
Gerard shuddered at this ghastly salute . 
His axe lay beside him , the bright blade shining red in the glow . 
He was asleep . 
Gerard started , but Denys only whispered , ` Courage , comrade , here is a fire . ' 
` There will soon be three : ' and he began to heap some wood on it that the watcher had prepared ; during which the prudent Gerard seized the man 's axe , and sat down tight on it grasping his own , and examining the sleeper . 
cried Gerard , ` could you eat food here ? ' 
and Gerard fidgeted where he sat . 
But , at the very moment of saying it , he missed his axe , and saw how Gerard was sitting upon it with his own laid ready to his hand . 
He lost countenance again directly . 
said Gerard quietly , keeping his eye on him . 
` You make free with my fire , ' said he ; but he added in a somewhat faltering voice , ` you are welcome . ' 
Denys whispered Gerard . 
This being communicated by Gerard , the man grinned ; ever since Denys spoke he had seemed greatly relieved . 
` I wist not ye were strangers , ' said he to Gerard . 
Nay , more , he winked and thrust his hand into the heap of leaves he sat on -LRB- Gerard grasped his axe ready to brain him -RRB- and produced a leathern bottle holding full two gallons . 
He put it to his mouth , and drank their healths , then handed it to Gerard ; he passed it untouched to Denys . 
Come , Gerard , sup ! 
` My spirit would cut the cord , and womp would come my body amongst ye , with a hand on the bottle , and one eye winking , t ` other -- ' Gerard started up with a cry of horror and his fingers to his ears , and was running from the place , when his eye fell on the watcher 's axe . 
The tangible danger brought him back . 
He sat down again on the axe with his fingers in his ears . 
Gerard turned his head away with loathing . 
he gasped . 
` Heaven knows I have much need of it , with such companions as thee and -- ' He took a long draught of the Rhenish wine : it ran glowing through his veins , and warmed and strengthened his heart ; but could not check his tremors whenever a gust of wind came . 
I forgot ; he is dead . 
Gerard it was who objected . 
The light of the watch-tower at Dusseldorf was visible as soon as they cleared the wood ; and cheered Gerard . 
Gerard acquiesced as a matter of course . 
His horror of a criminal did not in the least dispose him to active co-operation with the law . 
cried Gerard , who thought him shamefully overpaid already . 
Gerard 's choler began to rise at the egotistical rogue ; moreover , ever since his wound he had felt gusts of irritability . 
However , he bit his lip and said , ` There go two words to that bargain ; tell me first , is it true what men say of you Rhenish thieves , that ye do murder innocent and unresisting travellers as well as rob them ? ' 
` Fewer words had served , ' replied Gerard , coldly ; ` I asked a question , I am answered , ' and , suddenly doffing his bonnet , ``` Obsecro Deum omnipotentem , ut , quâ cruce jam pendent isti quindecim latrones fures et homicidæ , in eâ homicida fur et latro tu pependeris quam citissime , pro publica salute , in honorem justi Dei cui sit gloria , in æternum , Amen . 
At last Gerard said , thoughtfully , ` That she-bear saved both our lives -- by God 's will . ' 
was all poor Gerard could reply . 
So many shocks , emotions , perils , horrors , added to the wound , his first , had tried his youthful body , and sensitive nature , too severely . 
Gerard was no longer light-headed , but very irritable , and full of fancies ; and in one of these he begged Denys to get him a lemon to suck . 
They were not so common in the North as they are now , and he was absent a long while , and Gerard getting very impatient , when at last the door opened . 
Gerard was in no doubt as to the vocation of his visitor , for , the sword excepted , this was as familiar to him as the full dress of a physician . 
Gerard answered gratefully that his wound gave him little pain now ; but his throat was parched , and his head heavy . 
` But , sir , ' edged in Gerard , ` 't was no dog , but a bear . ' 
The man of art then explained to Gerard that in disease the blood becomes hot and distempered and more or less poisonous : but , a portion of this unhealthy liquid removed , Nature is fain to create a purer fluid to fill its place . 
` But think not , ' said he warmly , ` that it suffices to bleed : any paltry barber can open a vein -LRB- though not all can close it again -RRB- . 
` Surely , sir , the Almighty gave us all that is in our bodies , and not Aristotle , nor any Grecian man , ' objected Gerard humbly . 
of course He gave us the thing ; but Aristotle did more , he gave us the name of the thing . 
This worried Gerard . 
Gerard coloured a little and told him the learned doctor was going to flebotomize him and cauterize him ; that was all . 
` What should it be for , ' said the doctor to Gerard , ` but to cauterize the vein when opened , and the poisonous blood let free ? 
Avicenna indeed recommends a ligature of the vein ; but how 't is to be done he saith not , nor knew he himself I wot , nor any of the spawn of Ishmael . 
` I never thought of that , ' said Gerard gravely : ` the good doctor spake not of burning , but of cautery ; to be sure 't is all one , but cautery sounds not so fearful as burning . ' 
Now at fever 's heels comes desperate weakness ; then the man needs all his blood to live ; but these prickers and burners , having no forethought , recking nought of what is sure to come in a few hours , and seeing like brute beasts only what is under their noses , have meantime robbed him of the very blood his hurt had spared him to battle that weakness withal ; and so he dies exhausted : hundreds have I seen so scratched , and pricked , out of the world , Gerard , and tall fellows too : but lo ! 
` This sounds like common sense , ' sighed Gerard languidly , ` but no need to raise your voice so : I was not born deaf , and just now I hear acutely . ' 
Gerard gave a little squawk , and put his fingers in his ears ; but speedily drew them out and shouted angrily , and as loudly , ` You great , roaring , blaspheming , bull of Basan , hold your noisy tongue ! ' 
` Oh , my poor ears , ' sighed Gerard . 
Gerard groaned . 
Gerard sighed wearily . 
Gerard then indirectly rebuked his noisy counsellers by contrast and example . 
He spoke with unparalleled calmness , sweetness , and gentleness . 
And these were the words of Gerard the son of Eli . 
There was a dead silence , broken only by the silvery voice of Gerard , as he lay tranquil , and gazed calmly at the ceiling , and trickled into words . 
Even Denys changed colour at threats so fervent and precise ; but Gerard only gnashed his teeth with rage at the noise , and seized his hard bolster with kindling eye . 
This added fuel to the fire and brought the insulted ancient back from the impassable door , with his whisking train . 
He went . 
He came . 
He roared , ` And think not to be buried in any Christian churchyard ; for the bailiff is my good friend , and I shall tell him how and why you died : felo de se ! 
Gerard sprang to his feet on the bed by some supernatural gymnastic power excitement lent him , and , seeing him so moved , the vindictive orator came back at him fiercer than ever , to launch some master-threat the world has unhappily lost : for as he came with his whisking train , and shaking his fist , Gerard hurled the bolster furiously in his face , and knocked him down like a shot , the boy 's head cracked under his falling master 's , and crash went the dumb-strikened orator into the basket ; and there sat wedged in an inverted angle , crushing phial after phial . 
a great hissing : then the humane Gerard ran and wrenched off the tight basket not without a struggle . 
Gerard and Denys raised him up and consoled him . 
After a peal of laughter , that it was a cordial to hear , and after venting his watchword three times , he turned short grave , and told Gerard Dusseldorf was no place for them . 
And now Gerard suddenly remembered that this was a very good way to Rome but not to Burgundy . 
` Thank Heaven , ' said Gerard , joyfully . 
He added eagerly with a little touch of self-deception , ` ` Twere a sin to be so near Cologne and not see it . 
said Gerard ; ` why wilt thou , being good , still make thyself seem evil ? 
` So would not I , ' said Gerard drily . 
Gerard hung his head . 
His young nephew thus described had just come aft grave as a judge , and burst out crying in the midst without more ado . 
On this phenomenon , so sharply defined , he was subjected to many interrogatories , some coaxingly uttered , some not . 
Had he hurt himself ? 
had he over-ate himself ? 
was he frightened ? 
was he cold ? 
was he sick ? 
was he an idiot ? 
To all and each he uttered the same reply , which English writers render thus , oh ! 
Gerard could swim like a duck ; but the best swimmer , canted out of a boat capsized , must sink ere he can swim . 
Gerard uttered a wild cry of love and terror , and made for him , cleaving the water madly ; but the next moment Denys was under water . 
The next , Gerard was after him . 
The steel bow attached to the arbalestrier 's back , and carried above his head , had sunk him . 
That very steel bow , owing to that very position , could not escape Gerard 's hands , one of which grasped it , and the other went between the bow and the cord ; which was as good . 
cried Gerard , in mortal terror of that fatal mistake . 
Seeing the sort of stuff he had to deal with , Gerard was hopeful and calm directly . 
` On thy back , ' said he sharply , and seizing the arbalest and taking a stroke forward he aided the desired movement . 
Gerard had got hold of Denys 's long hair , and twisting it hard , caught the end between his side teeth , and with the strong muscles of his youthful neck easily kept up the soldier 's head , and struck out lustily across the current . 
A moment he had hesitated which side to make for , little knowing the awful importance of that simple decision ; then , seeing the west bank a trifle nearest , he made towards it , instead of swimming to jail like a good boy , and so furnishing one a novel incident . 
` Courage , ' mumbled Gerard . 
Gerard turned , and saw one of those four holding out a badge of office and a parchment slip . 
His heart sank ; for he was a good citizen , and used to obey the voice that now bade him turn again to Dusseldorf -- the Law 's . 
Gerard saw this needless pantomime with regret , and as soon as they had passed the brow of the hill said , ` There is now but one course , we must run to Burgundy instead of walking ; ' and he set off , and ran the best part of a league without stopping . 
Denys was fairly blown , and inquired what on earth had become of Gerard 's fever . 
` The straw for me , ' said Gerard . 
Gerard bade him make his mind easy . 
And with this epigram his consciousness went so rapidly he might really be said to ` fall asleep . ' 
Gerard slept like a top . 
In the morning he sat up and put out his hand to wake Gerard . 
At high noon he was waked by Gerard moving , and found him sitting up with the straw smoking round him like a dunghill . 
Gerard called him ' a lazy loon . ' 
He quietly grinned . 
They set out , and the first thing Denys did was to give Gerard his arbalest , etc. , and mount a high tree on the road . 
` Coast clear to the next village , ' said he , and on they went . 
On drawing near the village Denys halted and suddenly inquired of Gerard how he felt . 
asked Gerard sparkling with curiosity . 
Gerard was staggered by this sudden communication ; and his colour came and went . 
Then he clenched his teeth with ire . 
For men of an spirit at all are like the wild boar ; he will run from a superior force ; owing perhaps to his not being an ass : but if you stick to his heels too long , and too close , and , in short , bore him , he will whirl , and come tearing at a multitude of hunters , and perhaps bore you . 
Gerard then set his teeth and looked battle . 
But the next moment his countenance fell and he said plaintively , ` And my axe is in Rhine . ' 
As they went , the very eyes of the pair betrayed the difference in their minds : so quick and outward were those of Denys , so ruminating and inward Gerard 's . 
He had as many misgivings and feeble fears for Gerard absent and left to his own resources , as any old granddame for her boy pet when out of sight ; only it broke out in violence instead of wailing . 
if they touch but a hair of his head , I 'll burn their village to the ground , and shoot them down like vermin by the light of their own ruin . 
At last , just as he had determined , spite of orders , to go into the village , and rescue his comrade , or share his fate , Gerard pounced upon him from behind the hedge , having made a complete circuit . 
` Nay , this is tame fire , and here is his cage : and Gerard produced a flint and tinderbox ; item brimstone matches , item two short but thick candles , with rush wicks -LRB- the only ones then known -RRB- , and eyed them all like a doting parent . 
Over their meal he told his story . 
Gerard wore a lofty expression . 
The sly Gerard had got him out of his depth . 
` To tell the real truth , ' continued Gerard , ` I painted you to those boors partly from the Dusseldorf parchment , but mainly from a sketch -- of a veteran -- by Hubert Van Eyck . 
''' Denys gave a squeak and rolled in the loose hay , seeing which Gerard hummed the old French rhyme : -- ` Un bon vieillard -- a , Et un jeune moutard -- a. ' and laughed almost as lustily as the other . 
Here Gerard made acquaintance with a monk , who had constructed the great dial in the prior 's garden , and a wheel for drawing water , and a winnowing machine for the grain , & c. ; and had ever some ingenious mechanism on hand . 
He had made several psalteries and two dulcimers , and was now attempting a set of regalles , or little organ for the choir . 
Now Gerard played the humble psaltery a little : but the monk touched that instrument divinely , and showed him most agreeably what a novice he was in music . 
He also illuminated finely , but could not write so beautifully as Gerard . 
Comparing their acquirements with the earnestness and simplicity of an age in which accomplishments implied a true natural bent , Youth and Age soon became like brothers , and Gerard was pressed hard to stay that night . 
He consulted Denys , who assented with a rueful shrug . 
Gerard told his old new friend whither he was going , and described their late adventures , softening down the bolster . 
He then told him to avoid inns ; they were always haunted by rogues and roysterers , whence his soul might take harm even did his body escape ; and to manage each day 's journey so as to lie at some peaceful monastery ; then suddenly breaking off and looking as sharp as a needle at Gerard , he asked him how long since he had been shriven ? 
Gerard coloured up and replied feebly -- ` Better than a fortnight . ' 
` Yes , father , ' said Gerard , ` and with all mine heart ; ' and was sinking down to his knees , with his hands joined ; but the monk stopped him half fretfully -- ` Not to me ! 
` Dear father , ' said Gerard , ` they are for the use of the Church , and surely that sanctifies the pains and labour spent on them ? ' 
` That is just what the devil has been whispering in mine ear this while , ' said the monk , putting one hand behind his back and shaking his finger half threateningly , half playfully , at Gerard : ` he was even so kind and thoughtful as to mind me that Solomon built the Lord a house with rare hangings , and that this in him was counted gracious and no sin . 
But I am not so simple a monk as you think , my lad , ' cried the good father with sudden defiance , addressing not Gerard but -- Vacancy . 
He nudged Gerard and winked his eye knowingly . 
` Nothing he hates and dreads like seeing us monks at our orisons up to our chins in cold water . 
Gerard bowed his head , but could not help saying , ` Where shall I find a confessor more holy and clement ? ' 
Gerard followed the monk 's direction and made for a cell ; but the doors were pretty close to one another , and it seems he mistook ; for just as he was about to tap , he heard his old friend crying to him in an agitated whisper , ` Nay ! 
He turned , and there was the monk at his celldoor in a strange state of anxiety , going up and down and beating the air double-handed , like a bottom sawyer . 
Gerard really thought the cell he was at must be inhabited by some dangerous wild beast , if not by that personage , whose presence in the convent had been so distinctly proclaimed . 
He looked back inquiringly and went on to the next door . 
Then his old friend nodded his head rapidly , bursting in a moment into a comparatively blissful expression of face , and shot back into his den . 
He took his hour-glass , turned it , and went to work on his regalles : and often he looked up , and said to himself , ` Well-a-day , the sands how swift they run when the man is bent over earthly toys . ' 
Therefore Gerard in confessing to him , and replying to his gentle though searching questions , could not help thinking , ` here is a head ! 
Accordingly , his short mortification performed , Gerard returned and found Father Anselm spreading plaster . 
` After the soul the body , ' said he ; ` know that I am the chirurgeon here , for want of a better . 
During the operation , the monastic leech , who had naturally been interested by the Dusseldorf branch of Gerard 's confession , rather sided with Denys upon ` bleeding . ' 
Gerard hoped there was no need to part yet ; for he was to dine in the refectory . 
But Father Anselm told him , with a shade of regret just perceptible and no more , that he did not leave his cell this week , being himself in penitence : and , with this he took Gerard 's head delicately in both hands , and kissed him on the brow : and almost before the cell door had closed on him , was back to his pious offices . 
Gerard went away chilled to the heart by the isolation of the monastic life : and saddened too . 
he thought , ` here is a kind face I must never look to see again on earth ; a kind voice gone from mine ear and my heart for ever . 
This pensive mood was interrupted by a young monk who came for him and took him to the refectory ; there he found several monks seated at a table , and Denys standing like a poker , being examined as to the towns he should pass through : the friars then clubbed their knowledge , and marked out the route , noting all the religious houses on or near that road ; and this they gave Gerard . 
Then supper , and after it the old monk carried Gerard to his cell , and they had an eager chat , and the friar incidentally revealed the cause of his pantomime in the corridor . 
But Jerome was born old and with a cowl ; Anselm and I were boys once ; and wicked beyond anything you can imagine ' -LRB- Gerard wore a somewhat incredulous look -RRB- : ` this keeps us humble more or less , and makes us reasonably lenient to youth and hot blood . ' 
Then , at Gerard 's earnest request , one more heavenly strain upon the psalterion , and so to bed , the troubled spirit calmed , and the sore heart soothed . 
And so the pair , Gerard bronzed in the face and travel-stained from head to foot , and Denys with his shoes in tatters , stiff and footsore both of them , drew near the Burgundian frontier . 
Gerard was almost as eager for this promised land as Denys ; for the latter constantly chanted its praises , and at every little annoyance showed him ` they did things better in Burgundy ; ' and above all played on his foible by guaranteeing clean bed-clothes at the inns of that polished nation . 
Denys was for the inn , Gerard for the convent . 
Gerard consented to this the more readily that his chart with its list of convents ended here . 
And now Gerard asked with surprise whence this sudden aversion to places , that had fed and lodged them gratis so often . 
` And the only clapper you love is a woman 's , ' put in Gerard , half contemptuously . 
` I hold cleanliness no pedantry , ' said Gerard . 
Gerard was staggered : ere he could recover at this thunderbolt of Gallicism , Denys went triumphant off at a tangent , and stigmatized all monks as hypocrites . 
` Nay , ' said Gerard , eagerly , ` that modest downcast gaze is part of their discipline , 't is `` custodia oculorum . 
''' This last statement he confirmed with two oaths , and marched like a victorious gamecock into the convent , thinking by Gerard 's silence he had convinced him , and not dreaming how profoundly he had disgusted him . 
In the refectory allusion was made , at the table where Gerard sat , to the sudden death of the monk , who had undertaken to write out fresh copies of the charter of the monastery , and the rule , etc. . 
Gerard caught this , and timidly offered his services . 
There was a hesitation which he mistook . 
Gerard , on this , drew from his wallet with some trepidation a vellum deed , the back of which he had cleaned and written upon by way of specimen . 
Instantly a dozen knowing eyes were fixed on it : and a buzz of voices was heard ; and soon Gerard saw the prior point more than once , and the monk came back , looking as proud as Punch , with a savory crustade ryal , or game pie gravied and spiced , for Gerard , and a silver grace cup full of rich pimentum . 
This latter Gerard took , and bowing low , first to the distant prior , then to his own company , quaffed , and circulated the cup . 
Instantly , to his surprise , the whole table hailed him as a brother : ` Art convent bred , deny it not ? ' 
He acknowledged it , and gave Heaven thanks for it , for otherwise he had been as rude and ignorant as his brothers , Sybrandt and Cornelis . 
` But , 't is passing strange how you could know , ' said he . 
And Gerard 's cheek burned with shame : for in the heart of the unruly merriment his ear had caught the word `` courage ! '' 
Soon Gerard was installed in feu Werter 's cell , with wax lights , and a little frame that could be set at any angle , and all the materials of caligraphy . 
Then came the question , how could he ask Denys , the monk-hater , to stay longer ? 
However he told him , and offered to abide by his decision . 
He was agreeably surprised when Denys said , graciously , ` A day 's rest will do neither of us harm . 
Gerard 's work was vastly admired ; they agreed that the records of the monastery had gained by poor Werter 's death . 
The sub-prior forced a rixdollar on Gerard , and several brushes and colours out of the convent stock , which was very large . 
He resumed his march warm at heart : for this was of good omen ; since it was on the pen he relied to make his fortune and recover his well-beloved . 
Gerard crowed a little , we all like to be proved in the right ; and was all attention when Denys offered to relate how his conversion was effected . 
observed Gerard pensively . 
That this brutal threat had reconciled him to stay another day -- at Gerard 's request . 
Gerard groaned . 
That they had straightway carried off the inanimate , and dragged off the loving and lachrymose , kicked them all merrily each into his cell , ` And so shut up in measureless content . ' 
Gerard was disgusted : and said so . 
` 'T is there the holy fathers retire to pray , ' put in Gerard . 
Here Gerard exploded . 
` Denys , ' said Gerard solemnly ; ` you little know the peril you ran that night . 
` Ay , more , ' said Gerard , lowering his voice almost to a whisper , ` celestial sounds have issued from the purlieus of that very crypt you turned into a tavern . 
Gerard valued it deeply as a remembrance of home : he turned pale at first but to think he had so nearly lost it , and to Denys 's infinite amusement not only gave a piece of money to the lay brother , but kissed the mule 's nose . 
` I 'll read you now , ' said Gerard ` were you twice as ill written ; and -- to make sure of never losing you ' -- here he sat down and taking out needle and thread sewed it with feminine dexterity to his doublet , and his mind , and heart , and soul were away to Sevenbergen . 
Gerard did look , and the sentence in question ran thus -- ` ON NE LOGE CÉANS À CRÉDIT : CE BONHOMME EST MORT , LES MAUVAIS PAIEURS L'ONT TUÉ . ' 
` Welcome , messieurs , ' said he taking off his cap with a low bow . 
` Come , we are not in Germany , ' said Gerard . 
` Give yourself the trouble of sitting ye down , fair sir , ' said she to Gerard , and dusted two chairs with her apron , not that they needed it . 
` Thank you , dame , ' said Gerard . 
` Well , ' thought he , ` this is a polite nation : the trouble of sitting-down ? 
She was not quite so broad and genial as the elder , but gentle and cheerful , and showed a womanly tenderness for Gerard on learning the distance the poor boy had come , and had to go . 
She stayed nearly half an hour , and , when she left them , Gerard said , ` This an inn ? 
Gerard sat gaping with astonishment . 
This was to him almost a new variety of ` that interesting species , ' homo . 
He whispered Denys , ` Now I see why you Frenchmen say `` a woman 's tongue is her sword : ''' just then she levelled another assailant ; and the chivalrous Denys to console and support ` the weaker vessel , ' the iron kettle among the clay pots , administered his consigne , ` Courage , ma mie , le -- ' etc. . 
Poor Gerard 's turn had come : his chin crop was thin and silky . 
Gerard bore the Amazonian satire mighty calmly . 
He had little personal vanity . 
` Now , dame , ' said Gerard , ` what is to pay ? ' 
Gerard stared . 
` Dame , ' said Gerard , ` this is wonderful . ' 
and she staggered and sank backwards on to the handsomest fellow in the room , which happened to be Gerard . 
cried he , peevishly , ` there , do n't be stupid ! 
` You do not quite take me , dame , ' said Gerard . 
Poor Gerard got angrier the more he thought of it . 
` His mule -- his what ? ' 
` Nay , 't is but the word I was fain to invent for him . ' 
` I know a byword to that tune , ' said Gerard . 
And Gerard in his turn told a tremendous one out of his repertory , a MS. collection of ` acts of the saints , ' and made them all shudder deliciously ; but soon after began to nod ; exhausted by the effort I should say . 
She instantly lighted a rush , and laying her hand on Gerard 's shoulder invited him to follow her . 
She showed him a room where were two nice white beds , and bade him choose . 
` Either is paradise , ' said he . 
said she ; ` well then the sooner my flax and your down -LRB- he ! 
he ! -RRB- 
` Now that is a character , ' said Gerard profoundly ; and yawned over the discovery . 
In a very few minutes he was in a dry bath of cold , clean , linen , inexpressibly refreshing to him after so long disuse : then came a delicious glow : and then -- Sevenbergen , In the morning Gerard awoke infinitely refreshed , and was for rising , but found himself a close prisoner . 
His linen had vanished . 
In Gerard 's century , and indeed long after , men did not play fast and loose with clean sheets -LRB- when they could get them -RRB- , but crept into them clothed with -- their innocence , like Adam : out of bed they seem to have taken most after his eldest son . 
Gerard bewailed his captivity to Denys ; but that instant the door opened , and in sailed Marion with their linen , newly washed and ironed , on her two arms , and set it down on the table . 
` Oh you good girl , ' cried Gerard . 
''' ` She is funny , ' said Gerard dictatorially . 
` Not but what my German shoes have lasted well enough , ' said Gerard the just . 
Those simple words of Denys , one stroke of a careless tongue , painted ` home ' in Gerard 's heart . 
how sweet , ' said he . 
Gerard hid his face in his hands . 
He added too after profound reflection , that the horrors Gerard had alluded to had more than once made him curse and swear with rage when told by the good curé in his native village at Easter-tide ; ` but they chanced in an outlandish nation ; and near a thousand years agone . 
Gerard , who had for some time maintained a dead silence , informed him the subject was closed between them and for ever . 
` There are things , ' said he , ` in which our hearts seem wide as the poles asunder , and eke our heads . 
But I love thee dearly all the same , ' he added with infinite grace and tenderness . 
cried Gerard . 
Gerard went up to the officer and removing his cap , a civility which was immediately returned , said , ` For our Lady 's sake , sir , what do ye with these poor folk ? ' 
However the chuckle was brief , and moderated by their native courtesy , and the official turned to Gerard again . 
and now he hesitated not from any doubt as to what he was doing , but because he was hunting for a single word that should convey the matter . 
He explained that last year the town of Charmes had been sore thinned by a pestilence , whole houses emptied and trades short of hands . 
` Come away , ' whispered Gerard , trembling ; ` come a way , ' and the friends strode forward . 
When they passed the head of the column , and saw the men walk with their eyes bent in bitter gloom upon the ground , and the women , some carrying , some leading , little children , and weeping as they went , and the poor bairns some frolicking , some weeping because their mammies wept , Gerard tried hard to say a word of comfort , but choked and could utter nothing to the mourners ; but gasped ` Come on , Denys . 
Gerard scarce listened to him . 
he groaned : ` ay , if blood were no thicker than wine . 
Gerard shook his head very doubtfully , but kept silence for about a mile , and then he said thoughtfully , ` Ay , Denys , but then I am sustained by book-learning . 
said Gerard , acting intensest sympathy . 
` Courage , little love , ' said Gerard : ` 't is not thy heart lies broken ; money will soon mend pots . 
Gerard shrugged his shoulders at such a way of cheering a little girl . 
` What a fine thing Is a lute with one string , ' said he . 
` So then , ' said she , ` they will no longer be ablé to threaten us little girls with him , MAKING OUR LIVES A BURDEN ! ' 
While he was roaring with laughter at its unexpected success and Gerard 's amazement , a little hand pulled his jerkin and a little face peeped round his waist . 
said Gerard . 
` Adieu , petit coeur , ' said Gerard , and on they marched : but presently looking back they saw the contemner of women in the middle of the road , making them a reverence , and blowing them kisses with little May morning face . 
` Come on , ' cried Gerard lustily . 
` Dost hear , Gerard ? 
In an instant out came inkhorn and paper from Gerard 's wallet ; and he wrote a long letter to Margaret , and told her briefly what I fear I have spun too tediously ; dwelt most on the bear , and the plunge in the Rhine , and the character of Denys , whom he painted to the life . 
Seeing him so ready , Gerard charged him also with a short , cold letter to his parents ; and in it he drew hastily with his pen two hands grasping each other , to signify farewell . 
By-the-by , one drop of bitterness found its way into his letter to Margaret . 
Gerard now offered money to the soldier . 
He hesitated , but declined it . 
While the supper was preparing , Denys disappeared , and was eventually found by Gerard in the yard , helping Manon , his plump but not bright decoy duck , to draw water , and pouring extravagant compliments into her dullish ear . 
Gerard grunted and returned to table , but Denys did not come in for a good quarter of an hour . 
said Gerard , drily . 
As soon as supper was cleared away , Denys rose and strolled to the door , telling Gerard the sullen fair had relented , and given him a little rendezvous in the stable-yard . 
Gerard suggested that the cow-house would have been a more appropriate locality . 
` I shall go to bed , then , ' said he , a little crossly . 
` Gerard ! ' 
` Gerard ! 
But first Gerard . 
Stay thou here whilst I fetch him ! ' 
As he was darting off , the girl seized him convulsively , and with all the iron strength excitement lends to women . 
for pity 's sake , ' he cried ; ` 't is life or death . ' 
whispered the girl , shutting his mouth hard with her hand , and putting her pale lips close to him , and her eyes , that seemed to turn backwards , straining towards some indistinct sound . 
He listened . 
He heard footsteps , many footsteps ; and no voices . 
She whispered in his ear ` They are come . ' 
And now he must get to Gerard . 
` Suppose they had already dealt with Gerard . 
Why , then , ' thought he , ` nought is left but to kill , and be killed ; ' and he strung his bow , and walked rapidly into the kitchen . 
` What , Gerard ! 
He hallooed louder , ` Gerard , where art thou ? ' 
Denys burst in , and there was Gerard asleep . 
he said , in a choking voice , then began to sing loud , untuneful ditties . 
Gerard put his fingers into his ears ; but presently he saw in Denys 's face a horror that contrasted strangely with this sudden merriment . 
said he , sitting up and staring . 
Denys then pointing significantly to the door , to show Gerard sharp ears were listening hard by , continued his song aloud , but under cover of it threw in short muttered syllables . 
` Ay , but I am too wearied , ' said Gerard . 
Then he went to the door and called out cheerfully , ` Landlord , the young milk-sop will not rise . 
He heard a brutal and fierce chuckle . 
Having thus by observation made sure the kitchen door was shut , and the miscreants were not actually listening , he examined the chamber door closely : then quietly shut it , but did not bolt it : and went and inspected the window . 
It was too small to get out of , and yet a thick bar of iron had been let in the stone to make it smaller ; and , just as he made this chilling discovery , the outer door of the house was bolted with a loud clang . 
Not to throw away this their best chance the poor souls now made a series of desperate efforts to converse , as if discussing ordinary matters ; and by this means Gerard learned all that had passed , and that the girl was gone for aid . 
And Denys begged Gerard 's forgiveness for bringing him out of his way for this . 
Gerard forgave him . 
` I would fear them less , Gerard , but for one they call the Abbot . 
I picked him out at once . 
Gerard , a man to lead a herd of deer to battle . 
Gerard was for bolting the door ; but Denys with a sigh showed him that half the door-post turned outward on a hinge , and the great bolt was little more than a blind . 
` I will do whate'er you bid , ' said Gerard meekly . 
Denys opened the cupboard door and placed Gerard on a chair behind it . 
He then arranged the bolsters and their shoes in the bed so as to deceive a person peeping from a distance , and drew the short curtains at the head . 
Meantime Gerard was on his knees . 
Denys 's hand was cold , and Gerard 's warm . 
Denys closed the door ; bolted it gently ; drew the post to , and even while he was doing it whispered Gerard to bring a chair . 
While thus employed , Gerard was busy about the seated corpse , and , to his amazement , Denys saw a luminous glow spreading rapidly over the white face . 
Gerard blew out the candle . 
Gerard ran to the dead thief and began to work on him again . 
Gerard closed the sham post , and in half a minute his brush made the dead head a sight to strike any man with dismay . 
He put his art to a strange use , and one unparalleled perhaps in the history of mankind . 
He illuminated his dead enemy 's face to frighten his living foe : the staring eyeballs he made globes of fire ; the teeth he left white , for so they were more terrible by the contrast , but the palate and tongue he tipped with fire , and made one lurid cavern of the red depths the chap-fallen jaw revealed : and on the brow he wrote in burning letters ` La Mort . ' 
And , while he was doing it , the stout Denys was quaking , and fearing the vengeance of Heaven ; for one man 's courage is not another 's ; and the band of miscreants below were quarrelling and disputing loudly , and now without disguise . 
` Look out , Gerard . ' 
After the first tremor Gerard whispered , ` Courage , Denys ! 
Presently he whispered , ` Gerard ! ' 
Gerard looked and raised his sword . 
Gerard palpitated . 
` Cut , ' whispered Denys eagerly , and Gerard 's uplifted sword descended and severed the wrist with two swift blows . 
` No , Gerard , ' said Denys gravely : ` I have not . 
Gerard flew to the window and looked out . 
And he dashed his sword through the window shouting ` Quick ! 
If he struck a full blow with his weapon he would most likely kill one , but the other would certainly kill him : he saw this , and intelligent as well as powerful , he thrust the handle fiercely in Denys 's face , and , turning , jobbed with the steel at Gerard . 
Gerard had rushed in like lightning , and , just as the axe turned to descend on him , drove his sword so fiercely through the giant 's body , that the very hilt sounded on his ribs like the blow of a pugilist , and Denys , staggering back to help his friend , saw a steel point come out of the Abbot behind . 
The stricken giant bellowed like a bull , dropped his axe , and clutching Gerard 's throat tremendously , shook him like a child . 
Gerard went round the archers and took them each by the hand with glistening eyes , and on this they all kissed him ; and this time he kissed them in return . 
Then he said to one handsome archer of his own age , ` Prithee , good soldier , have an eye to me . 
The archer promised with a laugh ; for he thought Gerard was jesting : and the latter went off into a deep sleep almost immediately . 
But now , seeing Gerard unconscious , he suddenly gave this required information . 
` Well , then , you see , comrades , I had run my sword through this one up to the hilt ; and one or two more of 'em came buzzing about me ; so it behoved me have my sword or die : so I just put my foot against his stomach , gave a tug with my hand and a spring with my foot , and sent him flying to kingdom come ! 
He died in the air , and his carrion rolled in amongst you without ceremony : made you jump I warrant me . 
There remained but one constable , and Denys and Gerard , the latter still sleeping heavily . 
Gerard awoke , and found Denys watching him with some anxiety . 
` It was a blessed sleep , ' said Gerard , ` methinks Heaven sent it me . 
Gerard then sopped some rye bread in red wine and ate it to break his fast : then went with Denys over the scene of combat , and came back shuddering , and finally took the road with his friend , and kept peering through the hedges , and expecting sudden attacks unreasonably , till they reached the little town . 
However , after a moment 's reflection , he wore a grim smile , and finally proceeded to put interrogatories to Gerard , and took down the answers . 
This done he told them that they must stay in the town till the thieves were tried , and be at hand to give evidence , on peril of fine and imprisonment . 
` However , ' said he , ` ` twill not be long , the culprits having been taken red handed . ' 
He added , ` and you know in any case you could not leave the place this week . ' 
Denys stared at this remark , and Gerard smiled at what he thought the simplicity of the old gentleman in dreaming that a provincial town of Burgundy had attraction to detain him from Rome and Margaret . 
He now went to that which was nearest both their hearts . 
` Your worship , ' said he , ` we can not find our benefactress in the town . ' 
A loud disclaimer burst from Denys and Gerard at once . 
`` And that the girl Manon was the decoy , and her sweetheart was Georges Vipont , one of the band ; and hanged last month : and that she had been deject ever since , and had openly blamed the band for his death , saying , if they had not been rank cowards , he had never been taken , and it is his opinion she did but betray them out of very spite , and -- ''' ` His opinion , ' cried Gerard indignantly , ` what signifies the opinion of a cut-throat , burning to be revenged on her who has delivered him to justice ? 
and Gerard looked blank . 
Gerard looked at Denys and read him ` I am a native of Epinal . 
The paper almost dropped from Gerard 's hands . 
Now for the first time he saw that Manon 's life was in mortal danger . 
He knew the dogged law , and the dogged men that executed it . 
He threw himself suddenly on his knees at the alderman 's feet . 
The alderman was tough , but mortal ; the prayers and agitation of Gerard first astounded , then touched him . 
He showed it in a curious way . 
He became peevish and fretful . 
` There get up , do , ' said he . 
Gerard burst in . 
And so Denys and Gerard carried her off , Gerard dancing round her for joy , Denys keeping up her heart by assuring her of the demise of a troublesome personage , and she weeping inauspiciously . 
This strange meeting parted Denys and Gerard . 
The former yielded to curiosity and revenge , the latter doffed his bonnet , and piously followed the poor remains of those whose fate had so nearly been his own . 
For some time he was the one lay mourner : but when they had reached the suburbs , a long way from the greater attraction that was filling the market-place , more than one artisan threw down his tools , and more than one shopman left his shop , and touched with pity , or a sense of our common humanity , and , perhaps , decided somewhat by the example of Gerard , followed the bones bare headed , and saw them deposited with the prayers of the Church in hallowed ground . 
After the funeral rites Gerard stepped respectfully up to the curé , and offered to buy a mass for their souls . 
Gerard , son of Catherine , always looked at two sides of a penny : and he tried to purchase this mass a trifle under the usual terms , on account of the pitiable circumstances . 
But the good curé gently but adroitly parried his ingenuity , and blandly screwed him up to the market price . 
And his heart warmed to Gerard and he said , ` God was good to thee . 
said Gerard . 
Gerard 's eyes sparkled . 
I say he lived ; but barely . 
The parish was small , the parishioners greedy ; and never gave their curé a doit more than he could compel . 
The nearer they brought him to a disembodied spirit by meagre diet , the holier should be his prayers in their behalf . 
` At last he pickled a rod for them . 
A light broke in upon Gerard , his countenance showed it . 
said his host , ` I am that curé : so now thou canst guess why I said `` At their old tricks . '' 
The curé rose directly , but would not part with Gerard . 
dame , ' cried Gerard . 
While the sexton heaved in the great weights , the curé told Gerard ` My lord had been sick unto death , and vowed his weight in bread and cheese to the poor , the Church taking her tenth . ' 
When my lord did this , and so fell into the trap he had laid for holy Church , the good curé whispered to Gerard , ` Cretensis incidit in Cretensem ! ' 
` Between a bird and a brute , ' whispered Gerard . 
The seigneur 's weight was booked , and Heaven I trust and believe did not weigh his gratitude in the balance of the sanctuary . 
Gerard bowed . 
And he showed Gerard a famous shrine in the church . 
Gerard 's eye fell at once on this , and he expressed the liveliest admiration . 
Then Gerard asked ` Could the saint have loved hawking ? ' 
The curé laughed at his simplicity . 
When they have a bird of gentle breed they can not train , they make his image , and send it to this shrine with a present , and pray the saint to work upon the stubborn mind of the original , and make it ductile as wax : that is the notion , and methinks a reasonable one , too . ' 
Gerard assented . 
Gerard inquired how the battle of the hawks ended . 
` Why , the abbot he yielded , as the Church yields to laymen . 
He searched ancient books , and found that the left hand was the more honourable , being in truth the right hand , since the altar is east , but looks westward . 
So he gave my lord the soi-disant right hand , and contented himself with the real right hand , and even so may the Church still outwit the lay nobles and their arrogance , saving your presence . ' 
Gerard took this as a hint that he might go now . 
It jumped with his own wish , for he was curious to hear what Denys had seen and done all this time . 
` Let go , man , ' said Gerard . 
Denys saw the latter safely lodged , then made for the ` White Hart , ' where he expected to find Gerard . 
And in this charming society he forgot all about poor Gerard , who meantime was carried off to gaol ; but on the way suddenly stopped , having now somewhat recovered his presence of mind , and demanded to know by whose authority he was arrested . 
Jacques held out the writ in both hands about a yard and a half from Gerard 's eye ; and at the same moment the large constable suddenly pinned him ; both officers were on tenter-hooks lest the prisoner should grab the document , to which they attached a superstitious importance . 
They got the money : and bade Gerard observe they were doing him a favour . 
He saw they wanted a little gratitude as well as much silver . 
He tried to satisfy this cupidity , but it stuck in his throat . 
Feigning was not his forte . 
He entered the alderman 's presence with his heart in his mouth , and begged with faltering voice to know what he had done to offend since , he left that very room with Manon and Denys . 
On the writ being shown him , he told Gerard he had signed it at daybreak . 
So the alderman , getting impatient , told Gerard the main charge was that he had set a dead body a burning with diabolical fire , that flamed , but did not consume . 
The alderman advised Gerard against it . 
` But , sir , I am innocent , ' said Gerard , between snarling and whining . 
Gerard told him all , and appealed piteously to him . 
said Gerard . 
Thus encouraged Gerard fired the eyes and nostrils of the image and made the curé jump . 
As soon as he was in the street Gerard caught the priest 's hand , and kissed it . 
Gerard was mystified . 
The curé sighed , and his eye twinkled cunningly . 
` Nay , nay , ' cried Gerard eagerly . 
Gerard went hastily to the inn to relieve Denys of the anxiety so long and mysterious an absence must have caused him . 
He found him seated at his ease , playing dice with two young ladies whose manners were unreserved , and complexion high . 
Gerard was hurt . 
said he , colouring up . 
Wise men have not folly enough to please them , nor madness enough to desire to please them , ' said Gerard loftily : ` but 't is to my comrade I speak , not to you , you brazen toads , that make so free with a man at first sight . ' 
retorted Gerard . 
Gerard opened the door and put in his head . 
` I have thought of a byword , ' said he spitefully , ``` Qui hante femmes et dez Il mourra en pauvretez . '' 
` That we will see presently , ' said Gerard . 
` Nay , nay , for Heaven 's sake , ' cried the landlord changing his tone at once . 
Gerard objected to this system root and branch . 
said Gerard kindly , ` the shoe pinches every trader somewhere . ' 
` There now , ' cried the landlord to Gerard . 
Gerard implored him to be calm and say how it had befallen . 
` First one went out on some pretence : then after a while the other went to fetch her back , and , neither returning , I clapped hand to purse and found it empty : the ungrateful creatures , I was letting them win it in a gallop : but loaded dice were not quick enough ; they must claw it all in a lump . ' 
Gerard was for going at once to the alderman and setting the officers to find them . 
Gerard would not give it up so . 
At a hint from the landlord he forced Denys along with him to the provost-marshal . 
` They are clear of the town ere this , ' said Gerard . 
Gerard was dumbfoundered . 
``` He ? 
``` Why he that was not too late . '' 
Gerard sighed . 
` I see women have a shrewd champion in thee , ' said Gerard , with a smile . 
But the next moment inquired gravely why he had not told him all this before . 
` Now that is true , ' said Gerard . 
` Come , ' said Gerard , ` 't is well thou hast asked me : for else I had never told thee . ' 
He then related in full how he had been arrested , and by what a providential circumstance he had escaped long imprisonment or speedy conflagration . 
His narrative produced an effect he little expected or desired . 
inquired Gerard . 
` Oh , very well , ' said Gerard . 
Gerard made a motion to run him through , and flung his arms round his neck instead . 
The landlord turned to Gerard with a half-inquiring look . 
` Nay , sir , ' said Gerard . 
The next morning Gerard was eager to start , but Denys was under a vow to see the murderers of the golden-haired girl executed . 
Gerard respected his vow , but avoided his example . 
He went to bid the curé farewell instead , and sought and received his blessing . 
Gerard averted his head and hurried by . 
` Ay , but ` tis , ' remonstrated Gerard . 
` Sir , ' said Gerard , ` you seem conversant with wild beasts , prithee advise my comrade here and me : we would not waste time on the road , an if we may go forward to the next town with reasonable safety . ' 
Gerard hoped not ; and asked could he recommend them to a good inn ? 
On the way to it , Gerard inquired of his companion what ' a mijaurée ' was ? 
` Holy St. Bavon , ' cried Gerard . 
And Gerard was but a boy still in some things ; swift to see , and to loath , affectation . 
So Denys sat casting sheep 's eyes , and Gerard , daggers , at one comedian . 
for pity 's sake let her bide , ' cried Gerard earnestly . 
He now turned on Gerard and inquired haughtily whether he really thought that ` grimacière ' was afraid of a mouse . 
a right merry conceit , and a true , ' said Gerard . 
` The enemy has retreated , bag and baggage , ' said Denys : and handed in the trembling fair , who , sitting down , apologized to her guests for her foolish fears , with so much earnestness , grace , and seeming self-contempt , that , but for a sour grin on his neighbour 's face , Gerard would have been taken in as all the other strangers were . 
But the true cause soon revealed itself ; the fair hand was poked right under their eyes every time an object was indicated ; and Gerard eyed it like a basilisk , and longed for a bunch of nettles . 
Denys looked askant at Gerard , and not liking the theme , shook it off . 
Gerard said nothing , but pointed the circular satire by pantomime . 
He slily put out both his feet , one after another , under Denys 's eye , with their German shoes , on which a hundred leagues of travel had produced no effect . 
Gerard , when his turn came , told the adventure of Denys and Gerard at the inn in Domfront , and so well , that the hearers were rapt into sweet oblivion of the very existence of mijaurée and hands . 
So the moment Gerard 's story got too interesting and absorbing , she turned to and made yawns , and ` croix sur la bouche . ' 
This was all very fine : but Gerard was an artist , and artists are chilled by gaping auditors . 
He bore up against the yawns a long time : but finding they came from a bottomless reservoir , lost both heart and temper , and suddenly rising in mid narrative , said , ` But I weary our hostess , and I am tired myself : so good night ! ' 
She had not intended her by-play for Gerard 's eye : and she saw in a moment she had been rude , and silly , and publicly rebuked . 
The perverse toad -LRB- I thank thee , Marion , for teaching me that word -RRB- was inclined to bestow her slight affections upon Gerard . 
But Gerard possessed a triple attraction that has ensnared coquettes in all ages . 
He was very handsome . 
He did not admire her the least . 
He had given her a good slap in the face . 
Denys woke Gerard and gave the message . 
Gerard was not enchanted . 
` Dost wake a tired man to tell him that ? 
Denys then , assuming the senior and the man of the world , told Gerard the time was come to show him how a soldier understood friendship and camaraderie . 
` Sorry friendship , that would marry me to a mijaurée , ' interposed Gerard yawning . 
` Hast a good eye for nature , Denys , ' said Gerard , ` that I proclaim . ' 
Why , Gerard , she is honest when all is done : and he is no man , nor half a man , that can not mould any honest lass like a bit of warm wax , and she aye aside him at bed and board . 
Wilt think of me , Gerard , now and then by thy warm fire , of me camped on some windy heath , or lying in wet trenches , or wounded on the field and far from comfort ? 
Nay ' -LRB- and this he said in a manner truly noble -RRB- , ` not comfortless . 
` I let you run on , dear Denys , ' said Gerard softly , ` because at each word you show me the treasure of a good heart . 
` Behold , ' said Gerard , ` the very elements must be warmed to suit her skin ; what had the saints said , which still chose the coldest pool ? 
Gerard smiled , but with an air of abstraction . 
` Alas , I meant no other , ' said Gerard . 
Gerard raised his eyebrows with astonishment at this monstrous but thoroughly characteristic revelation ; however this new and delicate point of friendship was never discussed ; viz , whether one ought in all love to cut the tendon Achilles of one 's friend . 
Gerard turned round . 
` And how know ye 't is not his own , pray ? ' 
Because he rides it with no discretion . ' 
But what astonished the friends most was that on reaching them the rustic rider 's eyes opened saucer-like , and he drew the rein so suddenly and powerfully , that the mule stuck out her fore legs , and went sliding between the pedestrians like a four-legged table on casters . 
And Gerard felt his pouch , etc. . 
` Nay , thou shalt have pourboire , ' and he gave him a small coin . 
Gerard undid the packet : it was about six inches square , and inside it he found another packet , which contained a packet , and so on . 
At the fourth he hurled the whole thing into the snow . 
said Gerard , innocently . 
Gerard took the paper . 
` 'T is a posy : and fairly enough writ . ' 
Gerard interrupted this flattering discourse to beg the warrior-philosopher 's acceptance of the lady 's ring . 
He refused it flatly , and insisted on Gerard going back to the ` Tête d'Or ' at once , ring and all , like a man , and not letting a poor girl hold out her arms to him in vain . 
Gerard declined . 
I 'll neither part with it nor give it a rival : ' and he kissed the base metal , and bade it fear nought . 
However he prevailed on Gerard to fasten it inside his bonnet . 
When this was disposed of , Gerard earnestly requested his friend to let the matter drop , since speaking of the other sex to him made him pine so for Margaret , and almost unmanned him with the thought that each step was taking him farther from her . 
On this Gerard opened his heart . 
Then Gerard said nothing , for his heart was too full : but he ran twice round his companion as he walked , then danced backwards in front of him , and finally took his hand , and so on they went hand-in-hand like sweethearts , till a company of mounted soldiers , about fifty in number , rose to sight on the brow of a hill . 
` How gorgeous is the standard in the sun , ' said Gerard ; ` and how brave are the leaders with velvet and feathers , and steel breastplates like glassy mirrors ! ' 
Nay , then ; there is fighting a foot since he is out ; a gallant leader , Gerard , rates his life no higher than a private soldier 's , and a soldier 's no higher than a tomtit 's ; and that is the captain for me . ' 
Denys made no reply : but he held Gerard 's hand the tighter , and looked defiance . 
cried Gerard , awaking from the stupor into which this thunderbolt of tyranny had thrown him . 
` He shall go with you on the instant . 
I 'd liever part with him for ever than see a hair of his dear head harmed . 
Denys and Gerard gazed at one another haggardly . 
Make for the Rhine , Gerard ! 
panted Gerard . 
And Gerard ran wildly after -LRB- for the lane turned -RRB- , to see the very last of him ; and the last glimpse he caught , Denys was rocking to and fro on his mule , and tearing his hair out . 
But at this sight something rose in Gerard 's throat so high , so high , he could run no more nor breathe , but gasped , and leaned against the snow-clad hedge , seizing it , and choking piteously . 
The thorns ran into his hand . 
After a bitter struggle he got his breath again : and now began to see his own misfortune . 
Yet not all at once to realize it , so sudden and numbing was the stroke . 
He staggered on , but scarce feeling or caring whither he was going : and every now and then he stopped , and his arms fell and his head sank on his chest : and he stood motionless : then he said to himself , ` Can this thing be ? 
No colour but white . 
He , the ghost of his former self , wandered alone among the ghosts of trees , and fields , and hedges . 
All was desolate . 
Gerard never looked at them after they were gone by : certain gay shadows had come and passed : that was all . 
But he was rudely wakened : suddenly a voice in front of him cried harshly , ` Stand and deliver ! ' 
Gerard looked , and scarce a hundred yards off the nobleman and his friends had halted , and sat on their horses , looking at the lawless act , too proud to do their own dirty work , but not too proud to reap the fruit , and watch lest their agents should rob them of another man 's money . 
The milder servant then , a good-natured fellow , showed Gerard resistance was vain ; reminded him common thieves often took the life as well as the purse , and assured him it cost a mint to be a gentleman ; his master had lost money at play overnight , and was going to visit his leman , and so must take money where he saw it . 
` This knave is right , ' said Gerard calmly , aloud but to himself . 
The wily Ghysbrecht , suppressing his rage at this remonstrance , sent back a civil message to say that the person he had followed to Sevenbergen was a Tergovan , one Gerard , and that he had stolen the town records : that Gerard having escaped into foreign parts , and probably taken the documents with him , the whole matter was at an end . 
Thus he made a virtue of necessity . 
But in reality his calmness was but a veil : baffled at Sevenbergen , he turned his views elsewhere ; he set his emissaries to learn from the family at Tergou whither Gerard had fled , and ` to his infinite surprise ' they did not know . 
This added to his uneasiness . 
It made him fear Gerard was only lurking in the neighbourhood : he would make a certain discovery , and would come back and take a terrible revenge . 
Little Kate knew the share Cornelis and Sybrandt had in banishing Gerard , and though , for fear of making more mischief still , she never told her mother , yet there were times she shuddered at the bare sight of them , and blushed at their hypocritical regrets . 
Thus mistrust and suspicion sat at the table , poor substitutes for Gerard 's intelligent face , that had brightened the whole circle , unobserved till it was gone . 
As for the old hosier , his pride had been wounded by his son 's disobedience , and so he bore stiffly up , and did his best never to mention Gerard 's name ; but underneath his Spartan cloak Nature might be seen tugging at his heartstrings . 
One anxiety he never affected to conceal . 
I can not help thinking that if Gerard had opened the door just then , and walked in , there would have been many tears and embraces for him , and few reproaches , or none . 
Ere Gerard had been gone a week , his adventures were in every mouth ; and , to make matters worse , the popular sympathy declared itself warmly on the side of the lovers , and against Gerard 's cruel parents , and that old busy-body the burgomaster , ` who must put his nose into a business that nowise concerned him . ' 
Why Gerard 's Margaret . ' 
` Gerard 's Margaret , ' screamed Catherine ; ` how dare you say such a word to me ? 
Gerard was not dead , and she was too loyal herself to doubt his constancy . 
Her father was dear to her and helpless ; and , but for bodily weakness , all her love for Gerard would not have kept her from doing her duties , though she might have gone about them with drooping head and heavy heart . 
Gerard was gone . 
She had not him to get well for . 
Gerard has oft spoken of you , and of your goodness to him . 
Madam , he has no friend like you near him now , ' and at this thought she lay back , and the tears welled out of her eyes in a moment . 
Then Martin told his majesty of Gerard 's first capture in the church , his imprisonment in the tower , and the manoeuvre by which they got him out , and all the details of the hunt ; and , whether he told it better than I have , or the duke had not heard so many good stories as you have , certain it is that sovereign got so wrapt up in it , that , when a number of courtiers came galloping up and interrupted Martin , he swore like a costermonger , and threatened , only half in jest , to cut off the next head that should come between him and a good story : and when Martin had done , he cried out : -- ` St. Luke ! 
` A free pardon , your highness , for myself and Gerard . ' 
` And poor Gerard . ' 
` And poor Gerard too , for thy sake . 
And more , tell thou this burgomaster his doings mislike me : this is to set up for a king , not a burgomaster . 
Bid him be more humble : or by St. Jude I 'll hang him before his own door , as I hanged the burgomaster of what 's the name , some town or other in Flanders it was : no , 't was somewhere in Brabant -- no matter -- I hanged him , I remember that much -- for oppressing poor folk . ' 
The duke then beckoned his chancellor , a pursy old fellow that rode like a sack , and bade him write out a free pardon for Martin and one Gerard . 
Margaret had left her bed some days , and was sitting pale and pensive by the fireside , when he burst in , waving the parchment , and crying , ' A free pardon , girl , for Gerard as well as me ! 
Send for him back when you will ; all the burgomasters on earth dare n't lay a finger on him . ' 
It was nearly dusk ; so Margaret ventured , and about seven in the evening she astonished and gladdened her new but ardent friend , by arriving at her house with unwonted roses on her cheeks , and Gerard 's pardon in her bosom . 
So her heart opened to the recipient of her goodness , and she loved her now far more tenderly than she had ever loved Gerard , though , in truth , it was purely out of regard for Gerard she had visited her in the first instance . 
` Sweetheart , ' said she , ` I did desire he should stay in Italy five or six years , and come back rich , and , above all , an artist . 
But then -- ' Finally , being a sensible girl , she divined that a letter , addressed ` My Gerard -- Italy , ' might chance to miscarry , and she looked imploringly at her friend for counsel . 
` But how is he to find my Gerard ? ' 
` Why , he knows your Gerard , child . 
Now , as his business is the same as Gerard 's -- ' ` What ! 
` He passes for one . 
He will visit the same places as Gerard , and , soon or late , he must fall in with him . 
In six months at farthest Gerard shall get it ; and when he shall get it , then will he kiss it , and put it in his bosom , and come flying home . 
In short , ` plenus rimarum erat : huc illuc diffuebat : ' and among the miscellaneous matters that oozed out , he must blab that he was intrusted with a letter to a townsman of theirs , one Gerard , a good fellow : he added ` you are all good fellows : ' and , to impress his eulogy , slapped Sybrandt on the back so heartily , as to drive the breath out of his body . 
Sybrandt got round the table to avoid this muscular approval ; but listened to every word , and learned for the first time that Gerard was gone to Italy . 
However , to make sure , he affected to doubt it . 
` My brother Gerard is never in Italy . ' 
However , one of the company , by some immense fortuity , could read ; and , proud of so rare an accomplishment , took it , and read it out : ` To Gerard Eliassoen , of Tergou . 
These two black sheep kept putting their heads together , and tainting each other worse and worse , till at last their corrupt hearts conceived a plan for keeping Gerard in Italy all his life , and so securing his share of their father 's substance . 
` You have news of Gerard ? ' 
said he eagerly . 
They fumbled with their bonnets , and stammered and spoke a word or two , then hesitated and beat about the bush , and let out by degrees that they wanted a letter written , to say something that might keep Gerard in Italy : and this letter they proposed to substitute in Hans Memling 's wallet for the one he carried . 
While these fumbled with their bonnets and their iniquity , and vacillated between respect for a burgomaster , and suspicion that this one was as great rogue as themselves , and , somehow or other , on their side against Gerard , pros and cons were coursing one another to and fro in the keen old man 's spirit . 
Vengeance said let Gerard come back and feel the weight of the law . 
Prudence said keep him a thousand miles off . 
Finally , his strong persuasion that Gerard was in possession of a secret by means of which he could wound him to the quick , coupled with his caution , found words thus : ` It is my duty to aid the citizens that can not write . 
cried Sybrandt ; ` Gerard would not believe it , or but half , and then he would come back to see . 
will he credit that ? ' 
And you think that will keep him in Italy ? ' 
` Ay , ' said Cornelis , ` our Gerard will never leave Italy now he is there . 
It was always his dream to get there . 
He would come back for his Margaret , but not for us . 
What cares he for us ? 
He despises his own family ; always did . ' 
` This would be a bitter pill to him , ' said the old hypocrite . 
If you had but a hole in your hose no bigger than a groat , in went his beak like a gimlet ; and , for stealing , Gerard all over . 
What he wanted least , and any poor Christian in the house wanted most , that went first . 
Now this Gerard is tarred with the same stick . 
The parchments are no more use to him than a thimble or an awl to Jack . 
Gerard read the title of it , and he said , `` This is as much yours as the burgomaster 's '' and he put it apart , to read it with me at his leisure . ' 
said the burgomaster , recovering his calmness . 
Then , in a voice that faltered suddenly , ` You hunted -- my poor Gerard -- so hard -- and so close -- that you gave him -- no time -- to think of aught -- but his life -- and his grief . 
-- The parchment was in his bosom , and he hath ta'en it with him . ' 
For , when I think of the misery he has brought on him and me , the sight of him is more than I can bear : ' and she gave an involuntary shudder , and went slowly in , with her hand to her head , crying bitterly . 
I told him of your masterful doings , of your imprisoning Gerard for loving a girl ; and says he , `` Tell him this is to be a king , not a burgomaster . 
The duke could not mind which of you he had hung , or in what part ; such trifles stick not in a soldier 's memory , but he was sure he had hanged one of you for grinding poor folk , `` and I 'm the man to hang another , '' quoth the good duke . ' 
They were , `` To Gerard Eliassoen , these by the hand of the trusty Hans Memling with all speed . 
Turning possibilities over in her mind , she thought Margaret must be mortified at the contempt with which she was treated by Gerard 's family . 
Catherine received her with much respect , and thanked her with tears for her kindness to Gerard . 
She waited a better opportunity , and told her mother what she had learned from Reicht Heynes , that Margaret had shed her very blood for Gerard in the wood . 
` See , mother , how she loves him . ' 
` Who would not love him ? ' 
The letter was unfolded and spread out : and curiously enough , though not one of them could read , they could all tell it was Gerard 's handwriting . 
When , therefore , they saw this , which Gerard had drawn with his pencil between the two short paragraphs , of which his letter consisted , they read it , and it went straight to their hearts . 
N5402002 Gerard was bidding them farewell . 
As they gazed on that simple sketch , in every turn and line of which they recognized his manner , Gerard seemed present , and bidding them farewell . 
Giles said , ` Poor Gerard ! ' 
in a lower voice than seemed to belong to him . 
She loves Gerard , too . 
She will be glad to hear of him . 
Forgive me , Gerard ! ' 
``` -- for poor Gerard 's sake : since grief to her is death -- to -- me -- '' Ah ! ' 
to hear you one would think this was my Gerard 's lass . 
trouble behind her and trouble afore her ; and to think of my setting her , of all living women , to read Gerard 's letter to me . 
` I suffered for Gerard , and you shed your blood for him I do hear : his own words show me I have been to blame , the very words you have read to me . 
Ay , Gerard , my child , I have held aloof from her . 
Gerard 's mother had kissed her and called her daughter ; but the next moment she saw her old friend looking at her with a vexed air . 
The following is a fair though a small sample of her words : only they were uttered all in one breath : -- ` I have long had my doubts that you blew the flame betwixt Gerard and your father , and set that old rogue , Ghysbrecht , on . 
And now here are Gerard 's own written words to prove it . 
Gerard is our heir ; poor Gerard whom you have banished and done your best to kill ; after that never call me mother again ! 
But you have made him tenfold dearer to me . 
I shall soon see him again ; shall hold him in my arms , and set him on my knees . 
Margaret Brandt is quick , and it is Gerard 's , and what is Gerard 's is mine ; and I have prayed the saints it may be a boy : and it will -- it must . 
Kate , when I found it was so , my bowels yearned over her child unborn as if it had been my own . 
He is our heir . 
So , Kate , take down Gerard 's bib and tucker that are in the drawer you wot of , and one of these days we will carry them to Sevenbergen . 
We will borrow Peter Buyskens ' cart , and go comfort Gerard 's wife under her burden . 
She is his wife . 
And were I to have fifty more sons I 'd ne'er thwart one of them 's fancy , till such time as I had clapped my eyes upon her and seen Quicksands : say you , I should have thought of that before condemning Gerard his fancy ; but there , life is a school , and the lesson ne'er done ; we put down one fault and take up t ` other , and so go blundering here , and blundering there , till we blunder into our graves , and there 's an end of us . ' 
` Our Gerard taught thee that , I 'll go bail . 
It came to my ears , no matter how , and prithee , good mother , on my knees ne'er ask me how , that Gerard was a prisoner in the Stadthouse tower . ' 
-- 'T was Gerard ! 
He will have been talking backards and forrards of thee to her , and her to thee . ' 
` Now then , speak thy mind , child , Gerard is not here . 
would to Heaven he were . ' 
And she loves Gerard . ' 
Gerard has been sore abused . 
For his sake Gerard had abandoned the German route to Rome ; and what was his reward ? 
Denys , with a burst of grief , told her all , and prayed her to send after Gerard . 
` Now he is parted from me , he will maybe listen to my rede , ' said he ; ` poor wretch he loves not solitude . ' 
` Not I. ' ` Then , ' -- and he poured a volley of curses and abuse upon her . 
She turned her back upon him , and went off whimpering , and saying she was not used to be cursed at ; and ordered her hind to saddle two mules . 
The inn reminded him too much of Gerard . 
She looked into the room and beckoned him with her finger . 
He rose sulkily , and his guards with him . 
She drew him to a corner of the room , and there asked him under her breath , would he do her a kindness . 
He answered out loud , ` No , he would not , he was not in the vein to do kindnesses to man or woman . 
If he did a kindness it should be to a dog : and not that if he could help it . ' 
Gerard was too handsome and well-behaved to come to harm . 
The women too would always be on his side . 
Moreover , it was clear that things must either go well or ill with him . 
In the former case he would strike in with some good company going to Rome ; in the latter , he would return home , perhaps be there before his friend ; ` for you have a trifle of fighting to do in Flanders by all accounts . ' 
She then brought him his gold pieces , and steadily refused to accept one , though he urged her again and again . 
Denys said nothing , but made a little vow to St. Mars to shoot this Anthony of Burgundy dead , should the rebellion , that had cost him Gerard , prove no rebellion . 
Why , look ye now , sweeter temper than our Gerard never breathed , yet , when the bear did but strike a piece no bigger than a crown out of his calf , he turned so hot and choleric y' had said he was no son of yours , but got by the good knight Sir John Pepper on his wife dame Mustard ; who is this ? 
How came you to know Gerard , our son ? 
On the German frontier I lay at the same inn with Gerard . 
I fancied him . 
I said `` Be my comrade . '' 
First I left my route a bit to be with him : then he his to be with me . 
I saved his life from a bear ; he mine in the Rhine : for he swims like a duck and I like a hod o'bricks ; and one another 's lives at an inn in Burgundy , where we two held a room for a good hour against seven cutthroats , and crippled one and slew two ; and your son did his devoir like a man , and met the stoutest champion I ever countered , and spitted him like a sucking-pig . 
But just , when all was fair , and I was to see him safe aboard ship for Rome , if not to Rome itself , met us that son of a -- the Lord Anthony of Burgundy , and his men , making for Flanders , then in insurrection , tore us by force apart , took me where I got some broad pieces in hand , and a broad arrow in my shoulder , and left my poor Gerard lonesome . 
At that sad parting , soldier though I be , these eyes did rain salt scalding tears , and so did his , poor soul . 
Mine to him was `` Think no more of Rome . 
Now say , for you know best , did I advise him well or ill ? ' 
Catherine did not answer at all , but she darted from the room and bade Muriel bring the best that was in the house , and returned with wood in both arms , and heaped the fire , and took out a snow-white cloth from the press , and was going in a great hurry to lay it for Gerard 's friend , when rapidly she sat down and all the power ebbed rapidly out of her body . 
It was all about Gerard , and he , who sat there telling it them , was warm from Gerard and an actor with him in all these scenes . 
I shall ask my readers to recall to memory all they can of Gerard 's journey with Denys , and in their mind 's eye to see those very matters told by his comrade to an exile 's father , all stoic outside , all father within , and to two poor women , an exile 's mother and a sister , who were all love and pity and tender anxiety both outside and in . 
Then you will not be surprised when I tell you that after a while Giles came softly and curled himself up before the fire , and lay gazing at the speaker with a reverence almost canine ; and that , when the rough soldier had unconsciously but thoroughly betrayed his better qualities , and above all his rare affection for Gerard , Kate , though timorous as a bird , stole her little hand into the warrior 's huge brown palm , where it lay an instant like a teaspoonful of cream spilt on a platter , then nipped the ball of his thumb and served for a Kardiometer . 
Whenever Gerard was in too much danger , the female faces became so white , and their poor little throats gurgled so , he was obliged in common humanity to spoil his recital . 
Suspense is the soul of narrative , and thus dealt Rough-and-Tender of Burgundy with his best suspenses . 
it looks ugly : but you shall hear how we wond through . 
And even when Gerard had got hold of him , he was loth to leave the river , so , less conscientious than I was , swam with Gerard to the east bank first , and was about to land , but detected the officers , and their intent , chaffed them a little space , treading water , then turned and swam wearily all across , and at last was obliged to get out , for very shame , or else acknowledge himself a pike ; so permitted himself to land , exhausted : and the pressure relaxed . 
Gerard 's room has been got ready for you hours agone : the sheets I 'll not say much for , seeing I spun the flax and wove the web . ' 
` Ah , dame , our poor Gerard was the one for fine linen . 
But indeed he beat all for bywords and cleanliness . ' 
But Gerard looks on them as no friends of his in this matter ; and I 'm Gerard 's comrade ; and it is a rule with us soldiers not to tell the enemy aught ; but lies . ' 
The adventures he related cost them a tumult of agitation and grief , and sore they wept at the parting of the friends , which , even now , Denys could not tell without faltering . 
But at last all merged in the joyful hope and expectation of Gerard 's speedy return . 
In fact should Gerard return next week , and no Margaret to be found , what sort of figure should he cut ? 
Catherine had never felt so kindly towards the truant Margaret as now : and she was fully as anxious to find her , and be kind to her before Gerard 's return as Denys was : but she could not agree with him that anything was to be gained by leaving this neighbourhood to search for her . 
Was ever aught so untoward ; just when all our hearts are warm to her : and here is Gerard 's mate come from the ends o ' the earth with comfort for her from Gerard , and ca n't find her , and Gerard himself expected . 
Now your Gerard is reasonably handy at many things , and among the rest at the illuminator 's craft . 
And Margaret she is his pupil , and a patient one : what marvel ? 
quoth I. `` All teachers of this craft , '' says she : and -LRB- to make an end o ' me at once , I trow -RRB- `` Gerard himself ! '' 
`` That for Gerard himself , '' quoth I , `` and all the gang ; gi'e me a brush ! '' 
But thy violet eyes , which smack of earth , being now languid for lack of one Gerard , now full of fire in hopes of the same Gerard , these will I lift to heaven in fixed and holy meditation , and thy nose , which doth already somewhat aspire that way -LRB- though not so piously as Reicht 's -RRB- , will I debase a trifle , and somewhat enfeeble thy chin . 
Why because Gerard 's people slight her so cruel . 
But she was in dismay when she reflected that Gerard must reach home in another month at farthest , more likely in a week . 
And how should she tell him she had not even kept an eye upon his betrothed ? 
Can I set her on my knee and see my Gerard again as I can a boy ? 
And I am sick of this ever since Gerard left it . ' 
Should ye not rather say , she is bereaved of Gerard : the more need of you to stay aside her and comfort her ! ' 
Instead of her keeping it , Gerard had got it , and Gerard was far , far away . 
Gerard 's mother thus roused must either be her best friend or worst enemy . 
If Gerard had not loved her , I doubt she had ended there . 
Oh wicked wretch to kill thy child , and make thy poor Gerard lose all his pain and peril undertaken for thy sight . 
I -- I -- father , I have let Gerard take away my marriage lines . ' 
Gerard will assuredly come back and keep troth . ' 
She trembled violently , and with her cheeks on fire began to falter out , ` I did look on Gerard as my husband -- we being betrothed -- and he was in so sore danger , and I thought I had killed him , and I -- Oh , if you were but my mother I might find courage : you would question me . 
And when they were gone , she would take down two little boxes Gerard had made her ; and on one of these she had written To-day , and on the other To-morrow , and put the smaller coins into ` To-day , ' and the larger into ` To-morrow , ' along with such of her gold pieces as had survived the journey from Sevenbergen , and the expenses of housekeeping in a strange place . 
Not a word against the Gerard they had created out of their own heads . 
` By Gerard 's letter . 
` Gerard ? 
Where is he ? 
Is he in life ? 
Is he well ? 
Is he coming ? 
Why is he not here ? 
Where have ye left him ? 
and he flung his cap in the air , and seizing both her hands kissed them ardently . 
And I have got fifteen gold angels left for thee , and our Gerard will soon be here . 
But the fair eyes were wet even now , looking kindly and gratefully at the friend that had dropped among her foes as if from heaven : Gerard 's comrade . 
They went off together , followed by a chorus . 
` She has gotten a man . 
It was a sweet yet bitter day for Margaret , since it brought her a true friend , and ill news : for now first she learned that Gerard was all alone in that strange land . 
` Nay , 't was a female , and one that seeks thy regard ; 't was Catherine , Gerard 's mother . ' 
It was Gerard 's handwriting . 
Ah , Gerard , my darling , at hand I might have slighted thy commands , misliking thy folk as I have cause to do ; but now , didst bid me go into the raging sea and read thy sweet letter to the sharks there I 'd go . 
He found the family at dinner , and told them there was a long letter from Gerard . 
Then in the midst of the joy this caused , he said , ` And her heart is softened , and she will read it to you herself ; you are to choose your own time . ' 
` Nay , but mother , ' objected little Kate ; ` mayhap she can not bear to part it from her hand ; she loves him dearly . ' 
Oh , mistake me not , dame ; I defend her not , but so 't is ; yet maugre her spleen at a word from Gerard she proffers to read you his letter with her own pretty mouth , and hath a voice like honey -- sure 't is a fair proffer . ' 
` The she-comrade will be right glad to obey Gerard and yet not face you all , whom she hates as wormwood , saving your presence . 
`` You are a fool , '' says she ; `` obedience to Gerard is sweet , but obedience to any other body , who ever said that was sweet ? '' 
''' There was a silence , and Gerard 's words copied by Margaret were handed round and inspected . 
We must hear the news of Gerard . 
When Denys brought word they would not come to her , but would receive her , her lip curled , and she bade him observe how in them every feeling , however small , was larger than the love for Gerard . 
I will go to them for Gerard 's sake . 
Mortification , curiosity , panting affection , aversion to her who came to gratify those feelings , yet another curiosity to see what she was like , and what there was in her to bewitch Gerard , and make so much mischief . 
And now she began to read her Gerard , their Gerard , to their eager ears , in a mellow , but clear voice , so soft , so earnest , so thrilling , her very soul seemed to cling about each precious sound . 
Be good to him for poor Gerard 's sake . ' 
At these words , which came quite unexpectedly to him , Denys leaned his head on Margaret 's high chair , and groaned aloud . 
`` Gerard , son of Eli , dost thou well to bemoan thy lot , that hast youth and health ; and here comes the wreck of nature on crutches , praising God 's goodness with singing like a mavis ? 
So I did sing a sweet strain the good monks taught me ; and singing it reminded poor Bon Bec , Gerard erst , of his young days and home , and brought the water to mine een . 
Gerard crying in Lorraine made her cry at Rotterdam . 
He landed on the floor and was embraced ; but , on learning what was going on , trumpeted that he would much liever hear of Gerard than gossip . 
But Gerard interposed and saved them , and rebuked the count severely . 
And finally they all understood one another , and the superior mind obtained its natural influence . 
He played the barbarous noble of that day vilely . 
For his heart would not let him be either tyrannical or cold . 
Here were three human beings . 
He tried to make them all happier than he was ; held them ravished with stories , and songs , and set Herr Penitent & Co. dancing , with his whistle and psaltery . 
For his own convenience he made them ride and tie , and thus pushed rapidly through the country , travelling generally fifteen leagues a day . 
Sir Printing Press -- sore foe to poor Gerard , but to other humans beneficial -- plieth by night and day , and casteth goodly words like sower afield ; while I , poor fool , can but sow them as I saw women in France sow rye , dribbling it in the furrow grain by grain . 
No jealousy of a brother-workman : no sour looks at a stranger ; and would have me spend Sunday with them after matins ; and the merchant paid me so richly , as I was ashamed to take the guerdon : and I to my inn , and tried to paint the queen of diamonds for poor Gerard ; but no , she would not come like again . 
Happy Gerard , that shall have herself one day , and keep house with her at Augsburg . 
And so still wondering that I am alive to write it , and thanking for it God and the saints , this is what befell thy Gerard . 
I struggled up all agony and revenge , more like some wounded wild beast than your Gerard . 
` Gerard was alive and well , or he could not have writ this letter , the biggest mankind had seen as yet , and , ' as he thought , ` the beautifulest , and most moving , and smallest writ . ' 
The skipper hearing our Gerard speak his grief in Dutch , accosted him , and spake comfortably to him ; and after a while our Gerard found breath to say he was worthy Master Richart 's brother . 
` Sir , he told Gerard of his consort that was to sail that very night for Rotterdam ; and dear Gerard had to go home and finish his letter and bring it to the ship . 
And the rest , it is but his poor dear words of love to me , the which , a n't please you , I think shame to hear them read aloud , and ends with the lines I sent to Mistress Kate , and they would sound so harsh now and ungrateful . ' 
The pleading tone , as much as the words , prevailed , and Richart said he would read no more aloud , but run his eye over it for his own brotherly satisfaction . 
Our Gerard , writing at Venice , hath verily put his hand into this room at Rotterdam , and turned all our hearts . 
Ay , dear dear Gerard , methinks thy spirit hath rid hither on these thy paper wings ; and oh ! 
dear father , why not do as we should do were he here in the body ? ' 
` What are these marriage lines Gerard speaks of in the letter ? ' 
` Our marriage lines , sir . 
` Why , mistress , did ye shed your blood for our Gerard ? ' 
` Nay , nay . 
Martin tells me she cut her arm , and let her blood flow , and smeared her heels when Gerard was hunted by the bloodhounds , to turn the scent from her lad . ' 
But , Catherine suddenly clasping her , she began to cry at having found a bosom to cry on , of one who would have also shed her blood for Gerard in danger . 
Eli and Richart sat down and concocted a letter to bring Gerard home . 
It was the ill-fated Gerard . 
Gerard got nearer and nearer to him , by the instinct that takes the wavering to the side of the impregnable . 
Then wild with superstitious terror some of them came round Gerard . 
` Here is the cause of all , ' they cried . 
` He has never invoked a single saint . 
` Alas , good friends , say not so , ' said Gerard , his teeth chattering with cold and fear . 
Oh sweet Jesus , pitiful Jesus , that didst walk Genezaret when Peter sank , and wept for Lazarus dead when the apostles ' eyes were dry , oh save poor Gerard -- for dear Margaret 's sake ! ' 
Gerard saw this and it awakened his manhood . 
see ! ' 
he said , ` they have ta'en the boat and left the poor woman and her child to perish . ' 
His heart soon set his wit working . 
Gerard turned , and the friar took two strides , and laid hold of the broken mast . 
Gerard did the same , obeying him instinctively . 
Gerard seized the other , the friar the middle . 
` Impossible , father , ' said Gerard , ` we are more than a hundred yards from shore . 
Gerard soon followed him . 
At each overpowering wave the monk stood like a tower , and , closing his mouth , threw his head back to encounter it , and was entirely lost under it awhile : then emerged and ploughed lustily on . 
Gerard grasped every hand upon the beach . 
They brought him to an enormous fire , and with a delicacy he would hardly have encountered in the north , left him to dry himself alone : on this he took out of his bosom a parchment , and a paper , and dried them carefully . 
When this was done to his mind , and not till then , he consented to put on a fisherman 's dress and leave his own by the fire , and went down to the beach . 
The captain stuck by the ship , not so much from gallantry , as from a conviction that it was idle to resist Castor or Pollux , whichever it was that had come for him in a ball of fire . 
Gerard had a principal hand in pulling him out of the water . 
The disconsolate Hebrew landed on another fragment , and on touching earth , offered a reward for his bag , which excited little sympathy , but some amusement . 
The thirty egotists came ashore , but one at a time , and dead ; one breathed still . 
So then he too retired from this shifting scene . 
As Gerard stood by the sea , watching , with horror and curiosity mixed , his late companions washed ashore , a hand was laid lightly on his shoulder . 
Gerard kissed the child : more than once . 
He was fond of children . 
But he said nothing . 
Next day , towards afternoon , Gerard -- twice as old as last year , thrice as learned in human ways , a boy no more , but a man who had shed blood in self-defence , and grazed the grave by land and sea -- reached the eternal city ; post tot naufragia tutus . 
Gerard took a modest lodging on the west bank of the Tiber , and every day went forth in search of work , taking a specimen round to every shop he could hear of that executed such commissions . 
They received him coldly . 
Gerard borrowed a beautiful Greek manuscript at a high price , and went home with a sad hole in his purse , but none in his courage . 
In a fortnight he had made vast progress with the Greek character ; so then , to lose no time , he used to work at it till noon , and hunt customers the rest of the day . 
When he carried round a better Greek specimen than any they possessed , the traders informed him that Greek and Latin were alike unsaleable ; the city was thronged with works from all Europe . 
Gerard bought a psaltery . 
His landlady , pleased with his looks and manners , used often to speak a kind word in passing . 
One day she made him dine with her , and somewhat to his surprise asked him what had dashed his spirits . 
She gave him her reading of the matter . 
Gerard asked an explanation . 
Gerard sighed . 
` My mistake was leaving Augsburg , ' said Gerard . 
She then assured him that he should make his fortune in spite of the booksellers . 
Gerard took down their names , and bought parchment , and busied himself for some days in preparing specimens . 
He left one , with his name and address , at each of these signors ' doors , and hopefully awaited the result . 
Day after day passed and left him heartsick . 
Gerard saw ruin staring him in the face . 
He spent the afternoons picking up canzonets and mastering them . 
So Gerard 's hostess speedily detected him , and asked him if he was not ashamed of himself : by which brusque opening , having made him blush and look scared , she pacified herself all in a moment , and appealed to his good sense whether Adversity was a thing to be overcome on an empty stomach . 
` Nay , hostess , ' said Gerard , ` my purse is not yet quite void , and it would add to my trouble an if true folk should lose their due by me . ' 
Gerard pricked up his ears at this : so she told him more . 
Pietro had come from Florence with money in his purse , and an unfinished picture ; had taken her one unfurnished room , opposite Gerard 's , and furnished it neatly . 
When his picture was finished , he received visitors and had offers for it : these , though in her opinion liberal ones , he had refused so disdainfully as to make enemies of his customers . 
Since then he had often taken it out with him to try and sell , but had always brought it back ; and , the last month , she had seen one moveable after another go out of his room , and now he wore but one suit , and lay at night on a great chest . 
She had found this out only by peeping through the keyhole , for he locked the door most vigilantly whenever he went out . 
` Is he afraid we shall steal his chest , or his picture that no soul in all Rome is weak enough to buy ? ' 
` Nay , sweet hostess , see you not tis his poverty he would screen from view ? ' 
` And the more fool he ! 
Are all our hearts as ill as his ? 
` How you speak of him . 
` Oh , we Siennese love strangers . 
You are the comeliest youth ever lodged in this house ; hair like gold ; he is a dark sour-visaged loon . 
Besides you know how to take a woman on her better side ; but not he . 
Natheless I wish he would not starve to death in my house , to get me a bad name . 
Gerard not being an egotist , nor blinded by female partialities , saw his own grief in poor proud Pietro ; and the more he thought of it , the more he resolved to share his humble means with that unlucky artist ; Pietro 's sympathy would repay him . 
` Good Signor Pietro , ' said Gerard , ` forgive me that , weary of my own solitude , I intrude on yours ; but I am your nighest neighbour in this house , and methinks your brother in fortune . 
Gerard bowed , and smiled ; but hesitated a little . 
't is the good dame , ' cried Gerard . 
The landlady brought in Gerard 's dinner smoking and savoury . 
Gerard fell to . 
But ere he had eaten many mouthfuls , he stopped , and said : ` I am an ill-mannered churl , Signor Pietro . 
Gerard 's face flushed with anger , and it cost him a bitter struggle not to box this high-souled creature 's ears . 
And then to go and destroy good food ! 
His mother 's milk curdled in his veins with horror at such impiety . 
Gerard sighed , and made for the door . 
But suddenly a thought struck him . 
Gerard reflected . 
Gerard stood and looked at it in silence . 
Then he stepped close , and looked . 
Then he retired as far off as he could , and looked ; but said not a word . 
Gerard started . 
Ay , I have much to say . ' 
And he drew his sword . 
Gerard ` pursued criticism under difficulties . ' 
Put himself in a position of defence , with his sword 's point covering Pietro , and one eye glancing aside at the picture . 
At this unexpected burst the painter , with all the abandon of his nation , flung himself on Gerard 's neck . 
shouted Gerard . 
To be plain , Gerard , who never had a friend he did not master , had put his Onagra in harness . 
Gerard begged him to take the cards as well , and try and sell them . 
He looked all the rattlesnake , but eventually embraced Gerard in the Italian fashion , and took them , after first drying the last-finished ones in the sun , which was now powerful in that happy clime . 
Gerard , left alone , executed a Greek letter or two , and then mended a little rent in his hose . 
His landlady found him thus employed , and inquired ironically whether there were no women in the house . 
Gerard went down , and who should Teresa be but the Roman matron . 
` Ah , madama , ' said he , ` is it you ? 
She then turned to her friend and poured out a glowing description of Gerard 's conduct , during which Gerard stood blushing like a girl , and scarce recognizing his own performance , gratitude painted it so fair . 
` And to think thou shouldst ask me to serve thy lodger , of whom I knew nought but that he had thy good word , O Fiammina : and that was enough for me . 
Teresa smiled sadly at Gerard 's simplicity in leaving specimens of his skill at the doors of the great . 
sighed Gerard . 
The landlady felicitated Gerard . 
Gerard exchanged a glance with the landlady , and followed him up stairs to console him . 
` All the better , ' said Gerard , cheerfully . 
I saw , I feigned , I pillaged ; curse the boobies . ' 
Down went Gerard on his knees and followed the maltreated innocents directly , and transferred them tenderly to his purse . 
` Shouldst rather smile at their ignorance , and put it to profit , ' said he . 
` Pietro , ' said Gerard , softly , ` I painted that one from my heart . ' 
The quick-witted Italian nodded , and his eyes twinkled . 
Gerard walked silently beside Teresa , wondering in his own mind , after the manner of artists , what she was going to do with him ; instead of asking her . 
So at last she told him of her own accord . 
She fixed her eyes on Gerard 's comely face , and could hardly take them off again . 
Teresa said calmly , ` I will await her return , ' and sat so still , and dignified , and statuesque , that Gerard was beginning furtively to draw her , when Clælia returned . 
` Madama , I hear from the goldsmith 's wife , the excellent Olympia , that you need a writer ' -LRB- here she took Gerard by the hand and led him forward -RRB- ; ` I have brought you a beautiful one , he saved my child from the cruel waves . 
For our Lady 's sake look with favour on him . ' 
` Madama , ' said Gerard , ` this is likely to be a tedious business for you . ' 
At these last words Lodovico , who had been bowing and grinning artificially , suddenly changed to an expression of heartfelt gratitude , and embraced Gerard warmly . 
Yet somehow there was something in the man 's original manner , and his having followed his wife by stealth , that made Gerard uncomfortable under this caress . 
And Lucretia cast an approving look on Gerard . 
Gerard was not subtle enough to appreciate this conclusion : and was so far from sharing Teresa 's confidence that he begged a respite . 
` I am afraid of this high-born , fastidious friar , ' said Gerard . 
` Consider , he has seen the handywork of all the writers in Italy , dear dame Teresa ; if you would but let me prepare a better piece of work than yet I have done , and then to-morrow I will face him with it . ' 
Not far from his own lodging was a shop that sold vellum . 
Gerard looked at it wistfully ; but he knew he could not pay for it ; so he went on rather hastily . 
However , he soon made up his mind where to get vellum : and , parting with Teresa at his own door , ran hastily up stairs , and took the bond he had brought all the way from Sevenbergen , and laid it with a sigh on the table . 
He then prepared with his chemicals to erase the old writing ; but , as this was his last chance of reading it , he now overcame his deadly repugnance to bad writing , and proceeded to decipher the deed in spite of its detestable contractions . 
On this Gerard felt it would be imprudent and improper to destroy the deed . 
On the contrary he vowed to decipher every word , at his leisure . 
He went down stairs , determined to buy a small piece of vellum with his half of the cardmoney . 
At the bottom of the stairs he found the landlady and Teresa talking . 
At sight of him the former cried : ` Here he is . 
And whipped out from under her apron the very skin of vellum Gerard had longed for . 
why , donna Teresa ! ' 
And the Roman matron glided away , while Gerard was hesitating , and thinking how to offer to pay so stately a creature for her purchase . 
The next day in the afternoon he went to Lucretia , and her boy took him to Fra Colonna 's lodgings . 
Gerard entered with a beating heart . 
And he threw Gerard a piece of paper , and pointed to an inkhorn . 
` So please you , reverend father , ' said Gerard , ` my hand , it trembleth too much at this moment ; but last night I wrote a vellum page of Greek , and the Latin version by its side , to show the various character . ' 
Gerard brought the work to him in fear and trembling ; then stood , heart-sick , awaiting his verdict . 
When it came it staggered him . 
Oh that I , like Gerard , had a chaine des dames to pull up by . 
He told Gerard what great princes wanted him . 
` But I am so happy with you , father , ' objected Gerard . 
And the friar clapped a terrific price on Gerard 's pen . 
Gerard had three hundred crowns for Aristotle 's treatise on rhetoric . 
They were about a mile from the top of that table ; but , never mind , there they were ; and Gerard had the advantage of seeing roast pheasants dished up with all their feathers as if they had just flown out of a coppice instead of off the spit : also chickens cooked in bottles , and tender as peaches . 
This electrified Gerard : though my readers have seen the dazzling phenomenon without tumbling backwards chair and all . 
` But , dear father , ' objected Gerard , ` I see not the bifurcal daggers , with which men say his excellency armeth the left hand of a man . ' 
Then came in , ducking and scraping , two ecclesiastics with lutes , and kneeled at the cardinal 's feet and there sang the service of the day ; then retired with a deep obeisance : in answer to which the cardinal fingered his skull cap as our late Iron Duke his hat : the company dispersed , and Gerard had dined with a cardinal , and one that had thrice just missed being pope . 
One day the cardinal sent for him , and after praising the beauty of his work took him in his coach to the Vatican : and up a private stair to a luxurious little room , with a great oriel window . 
And soon Gerard was seated alone copying it , awestruck , yet half delighted at the thought that his holiness would handle his work and read it . 
But Gerard carried ever good ink , home-made , in a dirty little inkhorn : he prayed on his knees for a firm and skilful hand , and set to work . 
One side of his room was nearly occupied by a massive curtain divided in the centre : but its ample folds overlapped . 
After a while , Gerard felt drawn to peep through that curtain . 
It overpowered him . 
He left Plutarch ; stole across the matted floor ; took the folds of the curtain , and gently gathered them up with his fingers , and putting his nose through the chink ran it against a cold steel halbert . 
Gerard drew swiftly back : but in that instant he heard the soft murmur of voices and saw a group of persons cringing before some hidden figure . 
He never repeated his attempt to pry through the guarded curtain ; but often eyed it . 
Every hour or so an ecclesiastic peeped in , eyed him , chilled him , and exit . 
Gerard told him he was writing out Plutarch , with the help of the saints . 
The spark said he did not know the signor in question . 
Gerard explained the circumstances of time and space , that had deprived the Signor Plutarch of the advantage of the spark 's conversation . 
This lively companion however having acquired a habit of running into that little room , and finding Gerard good company , often looked in on him , and chattered ephemeralities while Gerard wrote the immortal lives . 
One day he came a changed , and moody man , and threw himself into a chair , crying ` Ah , traitress ! 
Gerard inquired what was his ill ? 
Whereupon Gerard wrote Plutarch . 
Gerard read him the life of Alexander . 
Who so happy now as Gerard ? 
His art was honoured , and fabulous prices paid for it ; in a year or two he should return by sea to Holland , with good store of money , and set up with his beloved Margaret in Bruges , or Antwerp , or dear Augsburg , and end their days in peace , and love , and healthy , happy labour . 
His heart never strayed an instant from her . 
In his prosperity he did not forget poor Pietro . 
He took the Fra Colonna to see his picture . 
But Gerard remained in his garret . 
To increase his expenses would have been to postpone his return to Margaret . 
Fra Colonna had the run of the Pope 's library , and sometimes left off work at the same hour and walked the city with Gerard ; on which occasions the happy artist saw all things en beau , and was wrapped up in the grandeur of Rome and its churches , palaces , and ruins . 
He showed Gerard that twenty or thirty feet of the old triumphal arches were underground , and that the modern streets ran over ancient palaces ; and over the tops of columns ; and coupling this with the comparatively narrow limits of the modern city , and the gigantic vestiges of antiquity that peeped above ground here and there , he uttered a somewhat remarkable simile . 
` Old Rome must indeed have been fair then , ' said Gerard . 
Gerard listened respectfully , but when the holy friar proceeded by analogy to imply that the moral superiority of the heathen Romans was proportionably grand , he resisted stoutly . 
The friar accompanied Gerard into the church , but had a good shrug first . 
When Gerard and the friar came up the priest seemed to think there were now spectators enough ; and began . 
` Good father , ' said Gerard , ` how you have their names by heart . 
And the friar hurried Gerard away . 
One afternoon , when Gerard had finished his day 's work , a fine lacquey came and demanded his attendance at the palace Cesarini . 
A good hour did Gerard cool his heels in that great room , and at last he began to fret . 
However , just as he was making up his mind to slip out , and go about his business , the door opened , and a superb beauty entered the room , followed by two maids . 
She came in talking rather loudly and haughtily to her dependents , but at sight of Gerard lowered her voice to a very feminine tone , and said , ` Are you the writer , messer ? ' 
She then seated herself ; Gerard and her maids remained standing . 
` Gerard , signora . ' 
` Gerard ? 
` What did I send for him for ? ' 
Gerard seated himself , took out paper and ink , and looked up to the princess for instructions . 
She , seated on a much higher chair , almost a throne , looked down at him with eyes equally inquiring . 
Gerard , after getting a gold piece so cheap , felt bound to pull her out of her difficulty ; if the wit of man might achieve it . 
''' Gerard , who was flourishing his pen by way of preparation , laid it down with a groan . 
` And when he was gone , ' said Floretta , ` your highness would say , `` Come back . 
Now silence , all , and let me think . 
She was so lovely and statuesque , and looked so inspired with thoughts celestial , as she sat thus , impregnating herself with mendacity , that Gerard forgot all , except art , and proceeded eagerly to transfer that exquisite profile to paper . 
He had very nearly finished when the fair statue turned brusquely round and looked at him . 
` Nay , signora , ' said he , a little peevishly , ` for Heaven 's sake change not your posture ; 't was perfect . 
and done in a minute : nay , methinks her highness 's chin is not quite so -- ' ` Oh , a touch will make that right . ' 
Hang black and white ! 
Take away her skin , and half her beauty is lost . ' 
` Then provoke me not to it ; ' and her eye flashed daggers , and she turned to Gerard all instantaneous honey . 
And Gerard bowed himself out of this velvet tiger 's den . 
He came next day and coloured her ; and next he was set to make a portrait of her on a large scale ; and then a full-length figure ; and he was obliged to set apart two hours in the afternoon for drawing and painting this princess , whose beauty and vanity were prodigious , and candidates for a portrait of her numerous . 
Here the thriving Gerard found a new and fruitful source of income . 
Fra Colonna and Gerard sat in a window and saw the religious processions . 
Their number and pious ardour thrilled Gerard with the devotion that now seemed to animate the whole people , lately bent on earthly joys . 
Gerard and the friar now came down , and threading some by-streets reached the portico of one of the seven churches . 
At this awful ceremony Gerard trembled , and so did the people . 
` Father , ' said Gerard , ` surely this is not to our Lord 's mind . 
The eucharist in both kinds was tasted by an official before the Pope would venture on it : and this surprised Gerard beyond measure . 
Gerard and the friar got a good place in the church , and there was a great curtain , and , after long and breathless expectation of the people , this curtain was drawn by jerks , and at a height of about thirty feet were two human heads with bearded faces , that seemed alive . 
Gerard was awe-struck . 
The friar approved after his fashion . 
Presently , going into Gerard 's room , he found a hot dispute a-foot , between him and Jacques Bonaventura . 
Gerard said it was not ridiculous ; nothing a Pope did could be ridiculous . 
Gerard brought his work , and kneeling on one knee presented it to his holiness , who had seated himself , the others standing . 
` 'T is excellently writ , ' said he . 
Gerard 's heart beat with delight . 
this Plutarch , he had a wondrous art , Francesco . 
your holiness , ' broke in Gerard , blushing and gasping , ` sure , here is one who will treasure your words all his life as words from Heaven . ' 
said Gerard , with a deep and tender reproach . 
The Pope smiled on Gerard . 
He then asked for all Gerard 's work , and took it away in his hand . 
But , before going , he gently pulled Fra Colonna 's ear , and asked him whether he remembered when they were school-fellows together , and robbed the Virgin by the roadside of the money dropped into her box . 
` You took a flat stick and applied birdlime to the top , and drew the money out through the chink , you rogue , ' said his holiness , severely . 
` To every signor his own honour , ' replied Fra Colonna . 
That afternoon the Pope 's secretary brought Gerard a little bag : in it were several gold pieces . 
He added them to his store . 
For some time past , too , it appeared as if the fairies had watched over him . 
Baskets of choice provisions and fruits were brought to his door by porters , who knew not who had employed them , or affected ignorance ; and one day came a jewel in a letter , but no words . 
At this point the suspicions of his landlady broke out . 
Gerard advised her to employ his friend Pietro Vanucci . 
Then Gerard , who knew he was an excellent draughtsman , but not so good a colourist , begged her to stand to him as a Roman statue . 
He showed her how closely he could mimic marble on paper . 
signorina , ' said Gerard , ` you have surely never noted the ancient habit ; so free , so ample , so simple , yet so noble ; and most becoming your highness , to whom Heaven hath given the Roman features , and eke a shapely arm and hand , hid in modern guise . ' 
Gerard , hurrying along to this interview , was suddenly arrested , and rooted to earth at a shop-window . 
` That is fairly writ , any way , ' thought he . 
He eyed it a moment more with all his eyes . 
Gerard groaned . 
The press is in Rome . ' 
Gerard took the Lactantius eagerly , and saw the following : -- Operâ et impensis Sweynheim et Pannartz Alumnorum Joannis Fust . 
` I would fain have it , ' said Gerard , sadly ; ` but my heart will not let me . 
Here Gerard was left alone till he became quite uneasy , and doubted whether the maid had not shown him to the wrong place . 
Gerard started up , and all the artist in him flushed with pleasure ` Oh ! ' 
This added the last charm to his model : a light blush tinted her cheeks , and her eyes brightened , and her mouth smiled with delicious complacency at this genuine tribute to her charms . 
When they had looked at one another so some time , and she saw Gerard 's eloquence was confined to ejaculating and gazing , she spoke . 
Gerard took out his pencils , arranged his canvas , which he had covered with stout paper , and set to work ; and so absorbed was he that he had no mercy on his model . 
Gerard was alarmed , and saw also he had been inconsiderate . 
Gerard timidly and hesitating applied his wet hand to her brow . 
Again . ' 
She thanked him , and asked him to ring a little hand-bell on the table . 
cried Gerard , ` what is amiss ? 
Gerard coloured all over at the compliment ; but not knowing how to turn a phrase equal to the occasion , asked her if he should resume her picture . 
Gerard was taken aback . 
` Ay , and what is that ? ' 
As she poured out these strange words , the princess 's mellow voice sunk almost to a whisper , and trembled with half-suppressed passion , and her white hand stole timidly yet earnestly down Gerard 's arm , till it rested like a soft bird upon his wrist , and as ready to fly away at a word . 
Destitute of vanity and experience , wrapped up in his Margaret and his art , Gerard had not seen this revelation coming , though it had come by regular and visible gradations . 
He blushed all over . 
His innocent admiration of the regal beauty that besieged him , did not for a moment displace the absent Margaret 's image . 
Yet it was regal beauty , and wooing with a grace and tenderness he had never even figured in imagination . 
How to check her without wounding her ? 
The siren saw , and encouraged him . 
muttered Gerard , deprecatingly . 
At this moment his eye , lowered in his confusion , fell on the shapely white arm and delicate hand that curled round his elbow like a tender vine , and it flashed across him how he had just seen that lovely limb employed on Floretta . 
said the princess , ` I scare him . 
` Signora , ' faltered Gerard , ` what can I say , that were not better left unsaid ? 
` Your highness , ' began Gerard , in a low , pleading voice . 
The princess withdrew her hand slowly from Gerard 's wrist . 
Yet as it passed lightly over his arm it seemed to linger a moment at parting . 
` No more than I fear the bodkins of your women , ' said Gerard , haughtily . 
said Gerard . 
Gerard hailed this proposition with joy ; and told her out of Cicero how godlike a thing was friendship , and how much better and rarer and more lasting than love : to prove to her he was capable of it , he even told her about Denys and himself . 
She listened with her eyes half shut , watching his words to fathom his character , and learn his weak point . 
At last , she addressed him calmly thus : ` Leave me now , Gerardo ; and come as usual to-morrow . 
Gerard felt the chilling difference : but said to himself , ` She is wise . ' 
The next day , he found the princess waiting for him surrounded by young nobles flattering her to the skies . 
She and they treated him like a dog that could do one little trick they could not . 
The cavaliers in particular criticised his work with a mass of ignorance and insolence combined that made his cheeks burn . 
The princess watched his face demurely with half-closed eyes , at each sting the insects gave him : and , when they had fled , had her doors closed against every one of them for their pains . 
The next day Gerard found her alone : cold , and silent . 
After standing to him so some time , she said , ` You treated my company with less respect than became you . ' 
` Nay , I said nought , ' observed Gerard . 
Gerard rose , and put his hand to his heart . 
Poor Gerard . 
He began to wade in deep waters when he encountered this Italian princess ; callida et calida solis filia . 
He resolved to go no more when once he had finished her likeness . 
This resolution was shaken for a moment by his next reception , which was all gentleness and kindness . 
After standing to him some time in her toga , she said she was fatigued , and wanted his assistance in another way : would he teach her to draw a little ? 
He sat down beside her , and taught her to make easy lines . 
He found her wonderfully apt . 
They were all heads of Gerard , and full of spirit : and really not unlike . 
One was his very image . 
Gerard opened his eyes with astonishment at this return to an interdicted topic . 
She laughed in his face . 
` Which you will , signora , ' said Gerard , firmly . 
` But for me I will neither love nor hate you ; but with your permission I will leave you . ' 
Nay , more , I shall noise it abroad it was for proffering brutal love to me thou wert slain ; and I will send a special messenger to Sevenbergen : a cunning messenger , well taught his lesson . 
Gerard turned pale , and stood dumbstricken . 
She ended in a little scream , for Gerard threw himself in a moment at her feet , and poured out in one torrent of eloquence the story of his love and Margaret 's . 
How he had been imprisoned , hunted with bloodhounds for her , driven to exile for her ; how she had shed her blood for him , and now pined at home . 
The princess trembled , and tried to get away from him : but he held her robe , he clung to her , he made her hear his pitiful story and margaret 's ; he caught her hand , and clasped it between both his , and his tears fell fast on her hand , as he implored her to think on all the woes of the true lovers she would part ; and what but remorse , swift and lasting , could come of so deep a love betrayed , and so false a love feigned , with mutual hatred lurking at the bottom . 
In such moments none ever resisted Gerard . 
The princess , after in vain trying to get away from him , for she felt his power over her , began to waver , and sigh , and her bosom to rise and fall tumultuously , and her fiery eyes to fill . 
Gerard broke the seals , and found it full of silver crowns . 
said Gerard , aloud . 
I am going back to my sweetheart with money in one pocket , and land in the other . ' 
Come out , Gerard 's reward , ' and she brought a letter out of her capacious pocket . 
Gerard threw his arm round her neck and hugged her . 
`` Gerard , my well beloved son , '' -LRB- she never called me that before that I mind -RRB- `` this letter brings thee heavy news from one would liever send thee joyful tidings . 
`` The last word on her lips was ` Gerard : ' she said ` Tell him I prayed for him at my last hour : and bid him pray for me . ' 
cried Gerard , with a grating laugh . 
Gerard staggered against the window sill . 
` But He is master of death , ' he groaned . 
Gerard returned to consciousness and to despair . 
On the second day he was raving with fever on the brain . 
On a table hard by lay his rich auburn hair , long as a woman 's . 
On the fifth day his leech retired and gave him up . 
On the sunset of that same day he fell into a deep sleep . 
Some said he would wake only to die . 
But an old gossip , whose opinion carried weight -LRB- she had been a professional nurse -RRB- , declared that his youth might save him yet , could he sleep twelve hours . 
On this his old landlady cleared the room and watched him alone . 
She vowed a wax candle to the Virgin for every hour he should sleep . 
The good soul rejoiced , and thanked the Virgin on her knees . 
He slept twenty-four hours . 
shall we wake him ? ' 
The other inspected him closely for some time . 
` His breath is even , his hand moist . 
I know there be learned leeches would wake him , to look at his tongue , and be none the wiser ; but we that be women should have the sense to let bon Nature alone . 
When did sleep ever harm the racked brain or the torn heart ? ' 
These two relieved the women , and sat silent ; the former eyeing his young friend with tears in his eyes , the latter with beads in his hand looked as calmly on him , as he had on the sea when Gerard and he encountered it hand to hand . 
Gerard had opened his eyes as gently as if he had been but dozing . 
He stared . 
He drew himself up a little in bed . 
He put his hand to his head , and found his hair was gone . 
He noticed his friend Colonna , and smiled with pleasure . 
But in the middle of smiling his face stopped , and was convulsed in a moment with anguish unspeakable , and he uttered a loud cry , and turned his face to the wall . 
Gerard rolled himself in the bed-clothes . 
cried Gerard , rising furiously and shaking his fist after the friar . 
She found Gerard putting on his clothes , and crying . 
` What avails my lying here ? ' 
` Saints preserve us ! 
` My pretty Gerard , know that it is Tuesday , not Sunday . ' 
Having been ignominiously ejected for late hours by their old landlady , and meeting Gerard in the street , he greeted him warmly , and soon after took up his quarters in the same house . 
He brought with him a lad called Andrea , who ground his colours , and was his pupil , and also his model , being a youth of rare beauty , and as sharp as a needle . 
Pietro had not quite forgotten old times , and professed a warm friendship for Gerard . 
Gerard , in whom all warmth of sentiment seemed extinct , submitted coldly to the other 's friendship . 
One day , when Gerard had undermined his health , and taken the bloom off his beauty , and run through most of his money , Vanucci got up a gay party to mount the Tiber in a boat drawn by buffaloes . 
But no Gerard . 
They waited for him some time , at first patiently , then impatiently . 
At last Gerard was seen at some distance with a female in his hand . 
Gerard 's companion was a peerless beauty ; she extinguished the boat-load , as stars the rising sun . 
The laughing ladies screamed and wrung their hands , all but Gerard 's fair . 
She uttered something very like an oath , and seizing the helm steered the boat out , and the gallant came up sputtering , griped the gunwale , and was drawn in dripping . 
He glared round him confusedly . 
` I understand not that , ' said he a little peevishly ; puzzled , and therefore it would seem , discontented . 
At which , finding he was by some strange accident not slain , his doublet being perforated , instead of his body , they began to laugh again louder than ever . 
Mortified by the attention the cavaliers paid to Gerard 's companion , the ladies began to pick her to pieces sotto voce , and audibly . 
` Hold thy peace , Marcia , ' said Gerard , awakened by the raised trebles from a gloomy reverie . 
She then whispered Gerard , ` It was only to make you laugh : you are distraught , you are sad . 
Dear Signor Gerard , would I were what they take me for ? 
Gerard sighed deeply ; and shook his head . 
Gerard looked up at the interruption . 
It was the princess Clælia . 
He coloured and withdrew his hand from Marcia 's head . 
said Gerard . 
But Vanucci struck in , and reminded the gaping gazers of a recent controversy , in which they had , with an unanimity not often found among dunces , laughed Gerard and him to scorn , for saying that men were as beautiful as women in a true artist 's eye . 
Gerard 's conduct had been of a piece with these maniacs . 
To survive his terrible blow he needed all his forces ; his virtue , his health , his habits of labour , and the calm sleep that is labour 's satellite ; above all , his piety . 
Yet all these balms to wounded hearts he flung away , and trusted to moral intoxication . 
Its brief fumes fled ; the bereaved heart lay still heavy as lead within his bosom ; but now the dark vulture Remorse sat upon it rending it . 
Broken health ; means wasted ; innocence fled ; Margaret parted from him by another gulf wider than the grave ! 
The humblest friend the afflicted one possesses may speak , or look , or smile , a sunbeam between him and that worst madness Gerard now brooded . 
Where was Teresa ? 
No : they knew not where he was , or whither he was gliding . 
And is there no mortal eye upon the poor wretch , and the dark road he is going ? 
Yes : one eye there is upon him ; watching his every movement ; following him abroad ; tracking him home . 
The princess , burning with jealousy , mortified pride , and dread of exposure -LRB- for till she knew Gerard no public stain had fallen on her -RRB- , sat where he left her , masked , with her arms straight out before her , and the nails of her clenched hand nipping the table . 
Gerard and Margaret were before their age . 
It happened , two days after the scene I have endeavoured to describe , that Gerard , wandering through one of the meanest streets in Rome , was overtaken by a thunderstorm , and entered a low hostelry . 
He called for wine , and , the rain continuing , soon drank himself into a half-stupid condition , and dozed with his head on his hands and his hands upon the table . 
In course of time the room began to fill and the noise of the rude guests to wake him . 
Then it was he became conscious of two figures near him conversing in a low voice . 
The other by his dress , clean but modest , might have passed for a decent tradesman : but the way he had slouched his hat over his brows so as to hide all his face except his beard , showed he was one of those who shun the eye of honest men , and of the law . 
And by an arrangement not uncommon at that date , the crime to be forgiven was yet to be committed -- under the celestial contract . 
All this buzzed in Gerard 's ear . 
But he never lifted his head from the table ; only listened stupidly . 
However , when the parties rose and separated , he half raised his head and eyed with a scowl the retiring figure of the purchaser . 
` If Margaret was alive , ' muttered he , ` I 'd take thee by the throat and throttle thee , thou cowardly stabber . 
Die all the world ; 't is nought to me : so that I die among the first . ' 
` Why there is that cur again , ' thought Gerard . 
But in his state of mind , the circumstance made no impression whatever on him . 
Two nights after this Pietro Vanucci and Andrea sat waiting supper for Gerard . 
At last he sent Andrea to Gerard 's room on the desperate chance of his having come in unobserved . 
Andrea shrugged his shoulders and went . 
He returned without Gerard , but with a slip of paper . 
Andrea could not read , as scholars in his day and charity boys in ours understand the art ; but he had a quick eye , and had learned how the words Pietro Vanucci looked on paper . 
``` The broken-hearted Gerard . '' 
Gerard , my friend , my sweet patron ! 
help ! 
Oh , good people , help me save him ! ' 
And after alarming all the house he ran into the street , bareheaded , imploring all good Christians to help him save his friend . 
A lacquey , however , who had been standing some time opposite the house , said he would go with Andrea ; and this turned three or four of the younger ones . 
Andrea , sobbing , told him about the letter , and Gerard 's moody ways of late . 
` Here he is , ' cried one of the young men , unacquainted with Gerard 's face and figure . 
For Pietro had assured them that the fugitive had neither the features nor the stature of Gerard . 
said they . 
Why , in the saints ' names , fled he at our approach ? ' 
Certainly a man had been in the water , and had got out of it in safety : but that man was not Gerard . 
One said he knew a fisherman hard by that had nets and drags . 
The days rolled on , mute as the Tiber as to Gerard 's fate . 
Gerard , then , after writing his brief adieu to Pietro and Andrea , had stolen down to the river at nightfall . 
He had taken his measures with a dogged resolution not uncommon in those who are bent on self-destruction . 
He filled his pockets with all the silver and copper he possessed , that he might sink the surer ; and , so provided , hurried to a part of the stream that he had seen was little frequented . 
But this resolute wretch looked about him to make sure there was nobody . 
And , to his annoyance , he observed a single figure leaning against the corner of an alley . 
` Can he be watching me ? 
thought Gerard . 
` Impossible . ' 
on Gerard looking all round , to make sure , there he was a few yards behind , apparently fastening his shoe . 
Gerard saw he was watched , and at this moment observed in the moonlight a steel gauntlet in his sentinel 's hand . 
Strange to say , it never occurred to him that his was the life aimed at . 
To be sure he was not aware he had an enemy in the world . 
shrieked Gerard . 
and Gerard far away . 
She should die ; and Gerard away . 
If only Gerard were here to see it . 
'T is strange ; I bore him well enow to be away from me in my sorrow ; but , oh , it doth seem so hard he should not share my joy . 
Prithee , prithee , come to me , Gerard ! 
dear , dear , Gerard ! ' 
` I did ery on Gerard , but now . ' 
` Well , he answered me . ' 
` Mother , as sure as I lie here , with his boy by my side , his voice came back to me , `` Margaret ! '' 
Yet methought 't was not his happy voice . 
That very night Gerard flung himself into the Tiber . 
And , that very hour she heard him speak her name , he cried aloud in death 's jaws and despair 's . 
Gerard lay back , meditating and wondering , till weak and wearied he fell into a doze . 
When he awoke again he found a new nurse seated beside him . 
Gerard stared at him . 
'T is one Gerard , a fair youth from Holland . '' 
Then said his reverence , `` He hath friends among our brethren . 
` Also he told me they of the convent had better means to tend thee than I had . 
And the miscreant cast a strange look of affection and interest upon Gerard . 
Gerard did not respond to it . 
He felt as if a snake were in the room . 
He closed his eyes . 
` I go . ' 
Gerard lay with his eyes closed : not asleep , but deeply pondering . 
Gerard recognized him in a moment , and cried to him , ` Oh Father Anselm , you cured my wounded body in Juliers ; now cure my hurt soul in Rome ! 
He then -LRB- for he had learned how Gerard came there -RRB- spoke to him kindly but solemnly , and made him feel his crime , and urged him to repentance , and gratitude to that Divine Power which had thwarted his will to save his soul . 
` Ah , father , ' said Gerard , ` in Juliers I could ; then I was innocent ; but now , impious monster that I am , I dare not confess to you . ' 
And soon Gerard was at Father Anselm 's knees confessing his every sin with sighs and groans of penitence . 
Gerard could pray now . 
And he prayed with all his heart . 
The phase , through which this remarkable mind now passed , may be summed in a word -- Penitence . 
He turned with terror and aversion from the world , and begged passionately to remain in the convent . 
To him , convent nurtured , it was like a bird returning wounded , wearied , to its gentle nest . 
He passed his noviciate in prayer , and mortification , and pious reading , and mediatation . 
The Princess Clælia 's spy went home and told her that Gerard was certainly dead , the manner of his death unknown at present . 
Ere many hours had passed , her pity for Gerard and hatred of his murderer had risen to fever heat ; which with this fool was blood heat . 
I can not call thee back to life . 
One of the novice Gerard 's self-imposed penances was to receive Ludovico kindly , feeling secretly as to a slimy serpent . 
And Gerard , carried from the Tiber into that convent a suicide , now passed for a young saint within its walls . 
Here Gerard ended , and Brother Clement began . 
And the author ran round the table , snatched Polifilo away , locked him up , and , trembling with mortification , said , ` My Gerard , pshaw ! 
This Gerard -- I beg pardon , brother Thingemy -- comes from the north , where men drink like fishes ; yet was he ever most abstemious . 
During the ablution she kneeled down opposite the little Gerard , and prattled to him with amazing fluency ; taking care , however , not to articulate like grown-up people ; for , how could a cherub understand their ridiculous pronunciation ? 
Was n't I for washing out my Gerard 's mole in his young days ? 
And now says you to me , `` Mother , '' says you , `` do try and wash yon out o ' my Gerard 's finger , '' says you . 
Why it is the sweetest bit in his little darling body . 
I 'll kiss it morn and night till he , that owned it first , comes back to us three . 
And she kissed little Gerard 's little mole ; but she could not stop there ; she presently had him sprawling on her lap , and kissed his back all over again and again , and seemed to worry him as wolf a lamb ; Catherine looking on and smiling . 
Gerard , Gerard , why did you not obey me ? 
I thought he was gone . 
But two months after this I met him . 
I was descending the Tiber in my galley , when he came up it with a gay company , and at his side a woman beautiful as an angel , but bold and bad . 
` My daughter , he you murdered -- in intent -- was one Gerard , a Hollander . 
` Poor Gerard ! 
''' ` Poor , poor , Gerard ! ' 
` Poor Gerard ? 
Nay , wicked , impious Gerard . 
He plunged into vice , and soiled his eternal jewel : those you met him with were his daily companions : but know , rash creature , that the seeming woman you took to be his leman was but a boy , dressed in woman 's habits to flout the others , a fair boy called Andrea . 
This Gerard , rebel against Heaven , was no traitor to thee , unworthy . ' 
Thou hadst chosen for the task Lodovico , husband of Teress , whom this Gerard had saved at sea , her and her infant child . ' 
` He lives ! 
he lives ! 
` My daughter , ' said Clement , coldly , ` he you call Gerard needs nothing man can do for him . 
Saved by a miracle from double death , he has left the world , and taken refuge from sin and folly in the bosom of the Church . ' 
Torment thyself no more about this Gerard , who is not . 
When little Gerard was nearly three months old , a messenger came hot from Tergou for Catherine . 
` Now just you go back , ' said she , ` and tell them I ca n't come and I wo n't : they have got Kate . ' 
` There now , Gerard , ' said she to the babe ; ` I thought granny gave in rather sudden . ' 
Time wore on : and no Gerard came ; and , stranger still , no news of him . 
''' The next minute Margaret was on her knees kissing little Gerard in the cradle , and showering four gold pieces on him again and again , and relating the whole occurrence to him in very broken Dutch . 
To do it herself she must leave little Gerard in charge of a neighbour . 
But she dared not trust such a treasure to mortal ; and besides she could not bear him out of her sight for hours and hours . 
But the heart became more and more troubled by Gerard 's long , and now most mysterious silence . 
And then that mental torturer , Suspense , began to tear her heavy heart with his hot pincers , till she cried often and vehemently , ` Oh , that I could know the worst . ' 
Then she sank moaning down by the cradle , and drew little Gerard tight to her bosom . 
A-nursing my Gerard , I forget I am the most unhappy creature beneath the sun . ' 
` That you do not , ' was the retort , ` or he would not be the way he is . ' 
` But bethink thee ; would it not be harder to look down and see his lovely wee face a-looking up at you out of a little coffin ? ' 
` I know I ought to be very grateful to you , ' sobbed Margaret to the nurse : then turned her head and leaned away over the chair , not to witness the intolerable sight of another nursing her Gerard , and Gerard drawing no distinction between this new mother , and her the banished one . 
And after that , when she wanted Joan 's aid , she used to take Gerard out , to give him a little fresh air . 
She was now altogether as eager to wean little Gerard . 
It was done ; and he recovered health and vigour : and another trouble fell upon him directly : teething . 
Catherine told Joan in return whose child it was she had nursed , and all about Margaret and Gerard , and the deep anxiety his silence had plunged them in . 
One day she said to Catherine , ` It 's my belief my man knows more about your Gerard than anybody in these parts : but he has got to be closer than ever of late . 
Ghysbrecht was for some cause Gerard 's mortal enemy ; had stopped his marriage , imprisoned him , hunted him . 
And here was his late servant , who when off his guard had hinted that this enemy had the clue to Gerard 's silence . 
Then Catherine told Margaret to go herself to him . 
You will , maybe , get more out of him than I could . ' 
At sight of her he rose , snorted , and burst out of the house . 
` You must excuse him , ' replied Joan , rather coldly ; ` he lays it to your door that he is a poor man instead of a rich one . 
There was one a-missing , and he got nought from the burgomaster all along of that one . ' 
Gerard took it . ' 
On the child 's birthday , which occurred soon after , Margaret did no work : but put on her Sunday clothes , and took her boy in her arms and went to the church and prayed there long and fervently for Gerard 's safe return . 
The brothers , who invented it merely to have one claimant the less for their father 's property , saw little Gerard take their brother 's place in their mother 's heart . 
Nay , more , one day Eli openly proclaimed that , Gerard being lost , and probably dead , he had provided by will for little Gerard , and also for Margaret , his poor son 's widow . 
Cornelis had it on his lips to say Gerard was most likely alive . 
But he saw his mother looking at him , and checked himself in time . 
In taking Gerard 's letter to Margaret he had compounded . 
` I can not give up land and money , ' said his giant Avarice . 
` I will cause her no unnecessary pain , ' said his dwarf Conscience . 
So , after first tampering with the seal , and finding there was not a syllable about the deed , he took it to her with his own hand ; and made a merit of it to himself : a set-off ; and on a scale not uncommon where the self-accuser is the judge . 
` Where is my Gerard ? ' 
` Is he alive ? ' 
` Not a step , ' said Margaret , and she took him by the shoulder , and held him with all the energy of an excited woman . 
Why does not my Gerard come , nor send a line this many months ? 
In vain he persisted he knew nothing about Gerard . 
She told him those who had sent her to him told her another tale . 
` You do know why he neither comes nor sends , ' said she , firmly . 
At this Ghysbrecht turned paler and paler ; but he summoned all his dignity , and said , ` Would you believe those two knaves against a man of worship ? ' 
For when she came to ponder every word , her suspicion was confirmed that Ghysbrecht did know something about Gerard . 
` And who were the two knaves he thought had done a good deed , and told me ? 
Oh , my Gerard , my poor deserted babe , you and I are wading in deep waters . ' 
Time rolled on : and no news of Gerard . 
And Margaret , whenever it came , used to say to little Gerard , ` Oh , my poor deserted child , you and I are wading in deep waters . ' 
She applied at least half this modest , but useful supply , to dressing the little Gerard beyond his station in life . 
` If it does come from Gerard , he shall see his boy neat . ' 
She returned to her first thought : ` Gerard must be dead . 
His mind , clouded for nearly two years , seemed now to be clearing ; he had intervals of intelligence ; and then he and Margaret used to talk of Gerard , till he wandered again . 
But one day , returning after an absence of some hours , Margaret found him conversing with Catherine , in a way he had never done since his paralytic stroke . 
` But indeed I have told him all ; and we have been a-crying together over thy troubles . ' 
Then the females whispered together : and Catherine said -- ` All our talk e ` en now was of Gerard . 
It lies heavy on his mind . 
Margaret , he is a very understanding man ; he thought of many things : `` He may be in prison , '' says he , `` or forced to go fighting for some king , or sent to Constantinople to copy books there , or gone into the Church after all . '' 
` Ah , mother , ' whispered Margaret , in reply , ` he doth but deceive himself as we do . ' 
A loud voice cried out , ` I see him . 
I see him . ' 
Waste not thine youth upon my son Gerard . 
Either he is dead or he is a traitor . 
Ah , Gerard , thou hast but me ; I will not believe thee dead till I see thy tomb , nor false till I see thee with another lover in thine hand . 
Now you humour her in everything , and then , if poor Gerard come not home and claim her , you will be sure to have her -- in time . 
There was the little quay where Gerard and Denys had taken boat up the Rhine . 
The true motive of all this was to get near little Gerard . 
Kate , for one , enjoyed it keenly ; for little Gerard was put in her lap , and she doted on him : and it was like a cherub carried by a little angel , er a rosebud lying in the cup of a lily . 
I love my rides , and to carry little Gerard ; but I 'd liever ride no more than thou be mocked for ` t. ' ` Much I care for their tongues , ' said Luke , ` if I did care I 'd knock their heads together . 
To be sure he did not even know him by sight ; but as each boat came in he would mingle with the passengers , and ask if one Gerard was there . 
` And , mistress , if you were to give me a bit of a letter to him ; for , with us being strangers , mayhap a wo n't believe a word I say . ' 
She described the little Gerard minutely , not forgetting the mole on his little finger . 
` Know you any one that hath the like on his ? 
If you only saw him you could not choose but be proud of him ; all the mothers in the street do envy me : but I the wives ; for thou comest not to us . 
My own Gerard , some say thou art dead . 
't is not so very long agone , dear Gerard . ' 
The letter continued in this strain , and concluded without a word of reproach or doubt as to his faith and affection . 
Not that she was free from most distressing doubts : but they were not certainties ; and to show them might turn the scale , and frighten him away from her with fear of being scolded . 
Luke mingled with the passengers of two boats , and could hear nothing of Gerard Eliassoen . 
Not did this surprise him . 
He was more surprised when , at the third attempt , a black friar said to him , somewhat severely , ` And what would you with him you call Gerard Eliassoen ? '' 
This Gerard Eliassoen of Tergou -- is he alive ? ' 
Why , certes , he that went by that name is alive . ' 
But he sees Gerard 's folk coming around ye , and good friends , and he said only last night -- ' ` Well ? ' 
` Mother , do you think he would be kind to little Gerard ? ' 
` I am sure he would . 
So do you be kinder to him when he comes back ! 
Brother Clement , directed by the nuns , avoided a bend in the river , and , striding lustily forward , reached a station some miles nearer the coast than that where Luke lay in wait for Gerard Eliassoen . 
Poor soul , thou wert like me ; no one was left that loved thee , when Gerard was gone . ' 
He went into the church , and , after kissing the steps , prayed long and earnestly for the soul of her whose resting-place he could not find . 
Coming out of the church he saw a very old man looking over the little churchyard gate . 
He went towards him , and asked him did he live in the place . 
Joan , lass , she wo n't hear a word against our Gerard ; and , be he alive , he has used her cruel ; that is why my bowels yearn for the poor wench . 
` His name was Gerard Eliassoen . ' 
` I was with Gerard when a letter came from Margaret Van Eyck . 
The letter told him she he loved was dead and buried . 
You never said a truer word i ' your life ; and , if you know where Gerard is now , lose no time , but show him the trap they have laid for him . 
Jorian then , after some of those useless preliminaries men of his class always deal in , came to the point of his story . 
He had been employed by the burgomaster of Tergou to repair the floor of an upper room in his house , and , when it was almost done , coming suddenly to fetch away his tools , curiosity had been excited by some loud words below , and he had lain down on his stomach , and heard the burgomaster talking about a letter , which Cornelis and Sybrandt were minded to convey into the place of one that a certain Hans Memling was taking to Gerard : ` and it seems their will was good , but their stomach was small ; so to give them courage the old man showed them a drawer full of silver , and if they did the trick they should each put a hand in , and have all the silver they could hold i n't . 
And then think of her pining and pining all these years , and sitting at the window looking adown the street for Gerard ! 
` Well , the long and the short is , he knew thy Gerard in Italy : and a letter came , saying you were dead ; and it broke thy poor lad 's heart . 
For yon friar is friendly to Gerard , and he is gone to Eli 's house , methinks . 
For I told him where to find Gerard 's enemies and thine , and wow but he will give them their lesson . 
` I talk of this friar , and you answer me of Gerard . ' 
` Man , see you not , this is Gerard ! ' 
` This , Gerard ? 
By St. Bavon , yon was Gerard 's face ; 't was nought like it ; yet somehow , -- 't was it . 
` You are making your own trouble , ' said he ; ` who says he has gone thither ? 
` Did not you tell him where those villains bide ? ' 
After dinner , her eyes red with weeping , she went to the convent to try and soften Gerard , and lay the first stone at least of a reconciliation . 
` Bid him keep land and gold , and give me back my Gerard , that he stole from me with his treason ; ' said Margaret , with her head still averted . 
A little of this gold , a portion of this land , a year or two ago , when it was as much her own as now ; and Gerard would have never left her side for Italy or any other place . 
The next thing was , Luke Peterson came home , and heard that Gerard was a monk . 
He was like to go mad with joy . 
He came to Margaret and said , ` Never heed , mistress . 
` Why , I have seen him . ' 
` But he is a friar . ' 
She said to herself , ` I wonder not he keeps away a while ; for so should I. ' However , he would hear he was a father : and the desire to see their boy would overcome everyting ; ` And , ' said the poor girl to herself , ` if so be that meeting does not kill me , I feel I shall be better after it than I am now . ' 
But when day after day went by , and he was not heard of , a freezing suspicion began to crawl and creep towards her mind . 
What if his absence was intentional ? 
What if he had gone to some cold-blooded monks his fellows , and they had told him never to see her more ? 
` Can he have ever loved me ? 
To run from me and his boy without a word ! 
While her mind was in this state , Giles came roaring , ` I 've hit the clout ; our Gerard is Vicar of Gouda . ' 
` So I told her all that passed between her and Gerard , and how she was for giving him a bishopric ; but the good countess said , `` Gently , Marie ! 
He is too young ; '' and with that they did both promise him a living ; `` Yet , '' said I , `` he hath been a priest a long while , and no living . 
He easily persuaded Margaret that , in a day or two , Gerard would be sure to hear , and come to his benefice . 
She went to look at his manse , and thought how comfortable it might be made for him , and how dearly she should love to do it . 
But the days rolled on , and Gerard came neither to Rotterdam nor Gouda . 
Gerard hath gone back t ' Italy . 
Presently a Tergovian came in with a word from Catherine that Ghysbrecht Van Swieten had seen Gerard later than any one else . 
He greeted her with a feeble voice , but cordially ; and when she asked him whether it was true he had seen Gerard since the fifth of August , he replied , ` Gerard , no more , but Friar Clement . 
I am Gerard the son of Eli . '' 
it was Gerard . 
Verily I had fallen at his feet with shame and contrition ; but he would not suffer me . 
`` That became not mine years and his , for a particular fault . 
I say not I forgive thee without a struggle , '' said he , `` not being a saint . 
Those were his very words . ' 
Margaret 's tears began to flow ; for it was in a broken and contrite voice the old man told her this unexpected trait in her Gerard . 
He continued , ` And even with that he bade me farewell . 
``` My work here is done now , '' said he . 
I had not the heart to stay him ; for , let him forgive me ever so , the sight of me must be wormwood to him . 
He left me in peace , and may a dying man 's blessing wait on him , go where he will . 
Oh , girl , when I think of his wrongs , and thine , and how he hath avenged himself by saving this stained soul of mine , my heart is broken with remorse , and these old eyes shed tears by night and day . ' 
` Ghysbrecht , ' said Margaret , weeping , ` since he hath forgiven thee , I forgive thee too : what is done , is done ; and thou hast let me know this day that which I had walked the world to hear . 
She went home animated with fresh hopes , and accusing herself of ingratitude to Gerard . 
She also made a resolution never to blame his conduct , till she should hear from his own lips his reasons . 
He used to whine to Margaret like a suffering hound , ` Oh , sweet Margaret , oh , bonny Margaret , for our Lady 's sake find Gerard , and bid him take his curse off me . 
Thou art gentle , thou art good ; thou wilt entreat for me , and he will refuse thee nought . ' 
Catherine shared his belief that Gerard could cure him , and joined her entreaties to his . 
The burgomaster and his agents having failed , she employed her own , and spent money like water . 
The slave of love was furnished with money by his soft tyrant , and wandered hither and thither , coopering , and carpentering , and looking for Gerard . 
` I ca n't be worse if I find the vagabone , ' said he , ` and I may be a hantle better . ' 
The months rolled on , and Sybrandt improved in spirit , but not in body , he was Margaret 's pensioner for life ; and a long-expected sorrow fell upon poor Catherine , and left her still more bowed down ; and she lost her fine hearty bustling way , and never went about the house singing now ; and her nerves were shaken , and she lived in dread of some terrible misfortune falling on Cornelis . 
The curse was laid on him as well as Sybrandt . 
` I have good daughters here , ' said she ; ` but Margaret is so tender , and thoughtful , and the little Gerard , he is my joy ; he grows liker his father every day , and his prattle cheers my heavy heart ; and I do love children . ' 
Margaret , I told him thy story , and I prayed him for our Lady 's sake , tell me where thy Gerard is . 
`` Pray for the soul of Gerard , the son of Eli ! 
` I have seen my Gerard tame the birds in winter till they would eat from his hand . ' 
As she was going out of the door , Margaret said to her , ` Said you whose son Gerard was ? ' 
How could he call him Gerard , son of Eli , if you had not told him ? ' 
Reicht persisted she had never mentioned him but as plain Gerard . 
However she determined to question the hermit again , and did not doubt he would be more liberal in his communication , when he saw his nice new pelisse and the candles . 
The next day she came early , and brought a jerkin she was making for little Gerard , and there she sat all day working and watching with dogged patience . 
Gerard lost again as soon as found . 
As soon as he was reconciled to Ghysbrecht Van Swieten , he went eagerly to his new abode , praying Heaven it might not have been already occupied in these three days . 
The fear was not vain ; these famous dens never wanted a human tenant long . 
He found the rude stone door ajar ; then he made sure he was too late ; he opened the door and went softly in . 
No ; the cell was vacant , and there were the hermit 's great ivory crucifix , his pens , ink , seeds , and memento mori , a skull ; his cilice of hair , and another of bristles ; his wellworn sheepskin pelisse and hood , his hammer , chisel , and psaltery , & c. Men and women had passed that way , but none had ventured to intrude , far less to steal . 
` Gerard , ' she murmured , ` be whose thou wilt by day , but at night be mine ! ' 
Even as she spoke , the agitation of seeing her so suddenly awakened him , and he found himself lying trembling from head to foot . 
That radiant figure , and mellow voice , seemed to have struck his nightly keynote . 
Awake he was Clement the hermit , risen from unearthly visions of the night , as dangerous as they were sweet ; asleep he was Gerard Eliassoen , the happy husband of the loveliest and best , and truest girl in Holland : all the happier that he had been for some time the sport of hideous dreams , in which he had lost her . 
A woman 's voice came in from the outside , told him his own story in a very few words , and asked him to tell her where Gerard was to be found . 
He was so astounded he could only say , with an instinct of self-defence , ` Pray for the soul of Gerard the son of Eli ! ' 
Oh Gerard , is it thus you and I meet after all ; after all ? ' 
Impregnated as he was with Satanophobia , he might perhaps have doubted still whether this distressed creature , all woman , and nature , was not all art , and fiend . 
` Ay , Gerard . 
I am come to take thee to thy pretty vicarage : art vicar of Gouda , thanks to Heaven and thy good brother Giles : and mother and I have made it so neat for thee , Gerard . 
And , dear Gerard , thy mother is waiting ; and 't is late for her to be out of her bed : prithee ; prithee ; come ! 
What have I ignorantly said ; to be regarded thus ? ' 
` Unhappy girl , ' said he , solemnly , ` yet deeply agitated , ` would you have me risk my soul and yours for a miserable vicarage and the flowers that grow on it ? 
no , Gerard , you love me not , or you would not have hidden from me ; there was no need . ' 
` Part , Gerard ? 
` But I say you shall hear me , Gerard , for forth this place I go not unheard . ' 
Margaret , when she ran past Gerard , was almost mad . 
Reicht kissed her and began to whimper ; and , would you believe it , the great mastiff uttered one long whine : even his glimmer of sense taught him grief was afoot . 
moaned the despised beauty , as soon as she could utter a word for choking , ` see how he has served me ; ' and she showed her hands that were bleeding with falling on the stony ground . 
` He threw me down , he was so eager to fly from me . 
He took me for a devil ; he said I came to tempt him . 
Some interfering foolish woman had gone and said this to the boy , and now out it came in Gerard 's very face . 
His answer surprised her ; he burst out , ` The villain ! 
the monster ! 
Ah ! 
he little knows the joy he hath turned his back on . 
` Gerard , you do not reject us . 
The startled hermit glared from his nurseling to Margaret , and from her to him , in amazement , equalled only by his agitation at her so unexpected return . 
The child lay asleep on his left arm , and she was at his right knee ; no longer the pale , scared , panting girl he had overpowered so easily an hour or two ago , but an imperial beauty , with blushing cheeks and sparkling eyes , and lips sweetly parted in triumph , and her whole face radiant with a look he could not quite read ; for he had never yet seen it on her ; maternal pride . 
` Us ? ' 
And still his wonder-stricken eyes turned to and fro . 
Fie , Gerard , to pretend ! 
'T was thy mother let me weet thou wast marked so before him ; and oh , Gerard , 't was this our child found thee for me ; for by that little mark on thy finger I knew thee for his father , when I watched above thy window and saw thee feed the birds ; here she seized the child 's hand and kissed it eagerly , and got half of it into her mouth , heaven knows how . 
Wast very cruel to me but now , my poor Gerard , and I forgive thee ; for loving of thy child . ' 
We have had a warning , Gerard . 
Oh , bless thee , Gerard , bless thee ! 
Why what is here , Gerard ? ' 
On the other leaves were pinned every scrap of paper she had ever sent him , and their two names she had once written together in sport , and the look of her hair she had given him , and half a siver coin she had broken with him , and a straw she had sucked her soup with the first day he ever saw her . 
She almost staggered , and her hand went to her bosom , and she leaned her brow against the stone cell and wept so silently that he did not see she was weeping ; indeed she would not let him , for she felt that to befriend him now she must be the stronger ; and emotion weakens . 
` Gerard , ' said she , ` I know you are wise and good . 
Come , learn thine A B C. Were a stranger to proffer me unchaste love , I should shrink a bit , no doubt , and feel sore , but I should defend myself without making a coil ; for men , I know , are so , the best of them sometimes , But if you , that have been my husband , and are my child 's father , were to offer to humble me so in mine own eyes , and thine , and his , either I should spit in thy face , Gerard , or , as I am not a downright vulgar woman , I should snatch the first weapon at hand and strike thee dead . ' 
` I had not the sense to see that , ' said Gerard , quietly . 
Margaret eyed him in silence , and soon recovered her composure . 
Then Margaret forced herself to be composed , and in a low sweet , gentle voice she murmured to him thus : ` My poor Gerard , Kate hath left her trouble behind her . 
And , my dear , when she was just parting , she asked for `` Gerard 's little boy , '' and I brought him and set him on the bed , and the little thing behaved as peaceably as he does now . 
Gerard wept . 
` She hath not left her like on earth , ' he sobbed . 
` Gerard , I am loth to grieve you , but Kate cried a little when she first took ill , at you not being there to close her eyes . ' 
Gerard sighed . 
` You were within a league , but hid your face from her . ' 
For I know you , the curse was scarce cold on your lips when you repented it ' -LRB- Gerard nodded assent -RRB- , ` and I said to myself , Gerard will thank me for taking Sybrandt to die under his roof ; he will not beat his breast and cry mea culpa , yet grudge three footsteps to quiet a withered brother on his last bed . 
Gerard literally staggered where he sat at this tremendous thrust . 
murmured Gerard , in a quavering voice . 
Then Margaret saw the time was come for that appeal to his reason she had purposely reserved till persuasion should have paved the way for conviction . 
Gerard was struck by this remark . 
` Art shrewd in dispute , ' said he . 
` Do you remember , Gerard , when we were young together , which now are old before our time , as we walked handed in the fields , did you but see a sheep cast , ay three fields off , you would leave your sweetheart -LRB- by her good will -RRB- , and run and lift the sheep for charity ? 
Take note , you Gerard Eliassoen must love something , 't is in your blood ; you were born to ` t. Shunning man you do but seek earthly affection a peg lower than man . ' 
Gerard interrupted her . 
` The birds are God 's creatures , his innocent creatures , and I do well to love them , being God 's creatures . ' 
Gerard started and stammered an affirmation . 
For she waited for his reply . 
Then , seeing Gerard watch her with surprise from the outside , she coloured and said : ` I am but a woman : `` little '' will still be `` spiteful . 
Suddenly Gerard stopped . 
` The child hath a piece of bread in his cowl . 
Nay , I will not . 
When they had gone about a quarter of a mile , Gerard sighed . 
` Margaret , ' said he , ` I must e ` en rest ; he is too heavy for me . ' 
` Then give him me , and take thou these . 
` I trow , ' said Gerard , looking down , ` overmuch fasting is not good for a man . ' 
Gerard pondered these simple words , and eyed her askant , carrying the child with perfect ease . 
When they had gone nearly a mile , he said , with considerable surprise : ` You thought it was but two butts ' length . ' 
She then turned on him the face of a Madonna . 
Now , Gerard , be prepared ; she is not the woman you knew her ; her children 's troubles have greatly broken the brisk , light-hearted soul . 
When Gerard was gone to the door , Margaret , fearing the sudden surprise , gave one sharp tap at the window , and cried : ` Mother ! ' 
And they sat all three together , hand in hand , murmuring sweet and loving converse ; and he who sat in the middle , drank right and left their true affection and their humble but genuine wisdom , and was forced to eat a good nourishing meal , and at daybreak was packed off to a snowy bed , and by-and-by awoke , as from a hideous dream , friar and hermit no more , Clement no more , but Gerard Eliassoen , parson of Gouda . 
Margaret went back to Rotterdam long ere Gerard awoke , and actually left her boy behind her . 
Things that pass little noticed in the neat of argument , sometimes rankle afterwards ; and , when she came to go over all that had passed , she was offended at Gerard 's thinking she could ever forget the priest in the sometime lover . 
She left little Gerard there to complete the conquest her maternal heart ascribed to him , not to her own eloquence and sagacity ; and to anchor his father for ever to humanity . 
Reicht soon found an excuse for taking little Gerard out , and there was a scene of mutual rapture ; followed by mutual tears when mother and boy parted again . 
` Why , Margaret , think you I had ever kept the dear child so long , but that I made sure you would be back to him from day to day ? 
Oh he curls round my very heart strings , but what is my title to him compared to thine ? 
retorted Gerard . 
` Well , he was telling me there was no parish in Holland where the devil hath such power as at Gouda ; and among his instances , says he , `` We had a hermit , the holiest in Holland ; but , being Gouda , the devil came for him this week , and took him , bag and baggage : not a ha ` porth of him left but a goodish piece of his skin , just for all the world like a hedgehog 's , and a piece o'old iron furbished up . 
` Aye , but , ' continued Gerard , ` the strange thing is , the cave has verily fallen in ; and , had I been so perverse as resist thee , it had assuredly buried me dead there where I had buried myself alive . 
Gerard continued : ` My mother was ever good and kind , but I noted not her exceeding comeliness till now . ' 
Gerard declared to her that each age had its beauty : ` See this mild grey eye , ' said he , ` that hath looked motherly love upon so many of us , all that love hath left its shadow , and that shadow is a beauty which defieth Time . 
as the footing on which Gerard and Margaret now lived for many years . 
And living but a few miles from one another , and she calling his mother ` mother . ' 
However , early next year , 1471 , the Duchess of Burgundy with the open dissent , but secret connivance of the duke , raised forces to enable her dethroned brother , Edward the Fourth of England , to invade that kingdom ; our old friend Denys thus enlisted , and passing through Rotterdam to the ships , heard on his way that Gerard was a priest , and Margaret alone . 
On this he told Margaret that marriage was not a habit of his , but that as his comrade had put it out of his own power to keep troth , he felt bound to offer to keep it for him ; ` for a comrade 's honour is dear to us as our own , ' said he . 
He was hurried on board at La Vere , and never saw Gerard at that time . 
In 1473 , Sybrandt began to fail . 
His pitiable existence had been sweetened by his brother 's inventive tenderness , and his own contented spirit , which , his antecedents considered , was truly remarkable . 
As for Gerard , the day never passed that he did not devote two hours to him ; reading or singing to him , praying with him , and drawing him about in a soft carriage Margaret and he had made between them . 
When the poor soul found his end near , he begged Margaret might be sent for ; she came at once , and almost with his last breath he sought once more that forgiveness she had long ago accorded . 
She remained by him till the last ; and he died blessing and blessed , in the arms of the two true lovers he had parted for life . 
1476 and 7 , were years of great trouble to Gerard , whose conscience compelled him to oppose the Pope . 
Gerard , in common with many of the northern clergy , held this sentence to be flat heresy ; he not only refused to utter it in his church , but warned his parishioners against using it in private ; and he refused to celebrate the new feast the Pope invented at the same time , viz. , ` the feast of the miraculous conception of the Virgin . ' 
Thus , though she knew she was spoiling little Gerard , and Catherine was ruining him for life , she would not part with him , but kept him at home , and his abilities uncultivated . 
Gerard saw this with pain , and interfered with mild but firm remonstrance ; and after a considerable struggle prevailed , and got little Gerard sent to the best school in Europe , kept by one Haaghe at Deventer : this was in 1477 . 
Eight years had now passed thus , and Gerard , fairly compared with men in general , was happy . 
She even snapped Gerard now and then . 
And , when she went to see him , if a monk was with him , she would turn her back and go home . 
She hated the monks for having parted Gerard and her , and she inoculated her boy with a contempt for them which lasted him till his dying day . 
Gerard bore with her like an angel . 
He knew her heart of gold , and hoped this ill gust would blow over . 
He himself being now the right man in the right place this many years , loving his parishioners , and beloved by them , and occupied from morn till night in good works , recovered the natural cheerfulness of his disposition . 
To tell the truth , a part of his jocoseness was a blind : he was the greatest peacemaker , except Mr. Harmony in the play , that ever was born . 
A bet was made : Gerard whistled ; in clattered Jack -- for he was taught to come into a room with the utmost composure -- and put his nose into his backer 's hand . 
shouted Gerard , ` and let us see which of these two sons of asses can drink most at a draught . ' 
said Gerard . 
So when they came , he had them into the parlour , and put each bundle on a chair . 
So Gerard got to be called the merry parson of Gouda . 
said she to herself , ` is there nothing sore at the bottom of his heart that he can go about playing the zany ? ' 
Wouldst not like to have three or four more little darlings about thy knee now they have robbed thee of poor little Gerard , and sent him to yon nasty school ? ' 
` Well , I will ask Gerard if I may , ' said Margaret one day with a flood of tears ; ` for I can not go on the way I am . ' 
` Why , you would never be so simple as ask him ? ' 
` Think you I would be so wicked as marry without his leave ? ' 
Accordingly she actually went to Gouda , and after hanging her head , and blushing , and crying , and saying she was miserable , told him his mother wished her to marry one of those two ; and if he approved of her marrying at all , would he use his wisdom , and tell her which he thought would be the kindest to the little Gerard of those two ; for herself she did not care what became of her . 
Gerard felt as if she had put a soft hand into his body , and torn his heart out with it . 
And Gerard , who had been praying for resignation all this time , received her with peculiar tenderness as a treasure he was to lose ; but she was agitated and eager to let him see without words that she would never marry , and she fawned on him like a little dog to be forgiven . 
I am but a woman . ' 
` My darling , you never shall again , ' said Margaret , with streaming eyes , and kissed his hand . 
He misunderstood this too at first ; but when month after month passed , and he heard no more of her marriage , and she came to Gouda comparatively cheerful , and was even civil to Father Ambrose , a mild benevolent monk from the Dominican convent hard by -- then he understood her ; and one one day he invited her to walk alone with him in the sacred paddock : and before I relate what passed between them , I must give its history . 
When Gerard had been four or five days at the manse looking out of window , he uttered an exclamation of joy . 
And presently his rapture took a serious turn , and he saw Heaven 's approbation in this conduct of the birds as he did in the fall of the cave . 
This wonderfully kept alive his friendship for animals : and he enclosed a paddock , and drove all the sons of Cain from it with threats of excommunication . 
He kept the key of this paddock , and never let any man but himself enter it : nor would he even let little Gerard go there without him or Margaret . 
` Children are all little Cains , ' said he . 
In this oasis then he spoke to Margaret , and said , ` Dear Margaret , I have thought more than ever of thee of late , and have asked myself why I am content , and thou unhappy . ' 
` Our lives tell another tale , ' said Gerard , thoughtfully . 
` But Gerard , I have my child to love . 
Thou canst not fill thy heart with him as his mother can . 
` And I have ta'en him from thee ; it was cruel ; but he would have broken thy heart one day if I had not . 
Meantime thou , poor soul , sittest with heart -- ' ` Of lead , Gerard , of very lead . ' 
And that heart expanded and waved its drooping wings ; and the glow of good and gentle deeds began to spread over it : and she was rewarded in another way , by being brought into more contact with Gerard , and also with his spirit . 
She saw Margaret and Gerard talking earnestly together on the Boulevard . 
It was winter ; there had been one of those tremendous floods followed by a sharp frost , and Gerard in despair as to where he should lodge forty or fifty houseless folk out of the piercing cold . 
Gerard and Margaret paramours ? 
In the summer of 1481 Gerard determined to provide against similar disasters recurring to his poor . 
Accordingly he made a great hole in his income , and bled his friends -LRB- zealous parsons always do that -RRB- to build a large Xenodochium to receive the victims of flood or fire . 
` Any one who knows them , ' said Gerard . 
And once , seeing him run up a plank with a wheelbarrow full of bricks , which really most bricklayers would have gone staggering under , she said , ` Times are changed since I had to carry little Gerard for thee . ' 
As Gerard was passing a public-house in Rotterdam one day , he heard a well-known voice . 
Gerard listened with eyes glittering affection and fun . 
Poor Denys sighed ; and Gerard 's bowels yearned over him . 
` In one hour , ' said Gerard , and went in high spirits to Margaret , and told her the treat in store , and she must come and share it . 
She must drive his mother in his little carriage up to the manse with all speed , and make ready an excellent supper . 
He sighed deeply , and it cost Gerard a great struggle , not to hug him then and there , and tell him . 
Who has not had this fancy once in his life ? 
` But I say ay , ' shouted Gerard . 
But Denys came close to him , and peered in his face , and devoured every feature ; and when he was sure it was really Gerard , he uttered a cry so vehement it brought the women running from the house , and fell upon Gerard 's neck , and kissed him again and again , and sank on his knees , and laughed and sobbed with joy so terribly that Gerard mourned his folly in doing dramas . 
But the women with their gentle soothing ways soon composed the brave fellow ; and he sat smiling , and holding Margaret 's hand and Gerard 's . 
When they made a fuss about this to Gerard , he just looked in their faces and said , ` What does it matter ? 
From the time Margaret entered heart and soul into Gerard 's pious charities that affection purged itself of all mortal dross . 
Little Gerard rejoiced both his parents ' hearts by the extraordinary progress he made at Alexander Haaghe 's famous school at Deventer . 
The last time Margaret returned from visiting him she came to Gerard flushed with pride . 
` Oh , Gerard , he will be a great man one day , thanks to thy wisdom in taking him from us silly women . 
A great scholar , one Zinthius , came to see the school and judge the scholars , and did n't our Gerard stand up , and not a line in Horace or Terence could Zinthius cite , but the boy would follow him with the rest . 
And he took our Gerard in his arms and kissed him , and what think you he said ? ' 
He sent a line by a messenger to Margaret , telling her that he was gone to fetch little Gerard to stay at the manse a little while ; and would she see a bed prepared ; for he should be back next day . 
And so he hoped she would not hear a word of the danger till it was all happily over . 
He borrowed a good horse , and scarce drew rein till he reached Deventer , quite late in the afternoon . 
said Gerard , indignantly . 
` Oh , if you saw her -- ' A sweet voice above said , ` Stay him not , let him enter . ' 
Gerard ran up the stairs to her , and went to take her hand . 
She drew back hastily . 
` It is not so precious as thine , ' said Gerard . 
` Nay , then , we shall quarrel , Gerard . ' 
` Methinks I see Margaret and Gerard quarrelling ! 
With this Gerard smiled on her sweetly . 
She looked cold , gloomy , and troubled . 
He sighed , and sat patiently down opposite her with his face all puzzled and saddened . 
He said nothing : for he felt sure she would explain her capricious conduct , or it would explain itself . 
Presently she rose hastily , and tried to reach her bedroom : but on the way she staggered and put out her hand . 
She swooned in his arms . 
He laid her gently on the ground , and beat her cold hands , and ran to her bedroom , and fetched water , and sprinkled her pale face , His own was scarce less pale ; for in a basin he had seen water stained with blood : it alarmed him , he knew not why . 
` She is not herself . ' 
` You will not leave me , then , Gerard ? ' 
said Gerard , clasping his hands . 
` My poor Gerard , ' said Margaret , ` forgive me that I spoke so to thee . 
she cried , weeping , ` that I can not keep grief from thee : there is a great sorrow before my darling , and this time I shall not be able to come and dry his eyes . ' 
` Let it come , Margaret , so it touch not thee , ' said Gerard , trembling . 
Gerard uttered a cry of horror , and started to his feet : she read his thought . 
And now for the first time Gerard began to realize the frightful truth , and he ran wildly to and fro , and cried to Heaven for help as drowning men cry to their fellow-creatures . 
She raised herself on her arm , and set herself to quiet him . 
She told him she had known the torture of hopes and fears , and was resolved to spare him that agony . 
Gerard sick and cold at heart kneeled down , and prayed for help from Heaven to do his duty . 
When he rose from his knees his face was pale and old , but deadly calm and patient . 
He went softly and brought her bed into the room , and laid her gently down and supported her head with pillows . 
Then for some hours she wandered , but when the fell disease had quite made sure of its prey , her mind cleared ; and she begged Gerard to shrive her ; ` For oh my conscience it is laden , ' said she , sadly . 
` Courage , my daughter , courage , ' said Gerard , kindly , overpowering the lover in the priest . 
She hid her face in her hands , and with many sighs told him it was she who had broken down the hermit 's cave with the help of Jorian Ketel . 
sobbed Gerard , ` what have I to forgive ? 
Thou hadst a foolish froward child to guide to his own weal , and didst all this for the best . 
I am not an ill woman , not a very ill one . 
If He can forgive me deceiving thee , He can well forgive me all the rest ever I did . ' 
Gerard struggled with his as well as he could ; and knowing her life of piety , purity , and charity , and seeing that she could not in her present state realize any sin but her having deceived him , gave her full absolution . 
Then he put the crucifix in her hand , and , while he consecrated the oil , bade her fix her mind neither on her merits nor her demerits , but on Him who died for her on the tree . 
She obeyed him , with a look of confiding love and submission . 
Soon after she dozed . 
She begged him to look in her box for her marriage lines , and for a picture , and bring them both to her . 
She then entreated him by all they had suffered for each other , to ease her mind by making a solemn vow to execute her dying requests . 
` Then , Gerard , let no creature come here to lay me out . 
` They cut it to pieces , Gerard . 
` I promise , ' said Gerard , sobbing . 
Oh my love , if thou hast lived doubting of thy Gerard 's heart , die not so : for never was woman loved so tenderly as thou this ten years past . ' 
Then Gerard , who had loved her soul so many years , feared lest she should expire with a mind too fixed on earthly affection . 
` Oh my daughter , ' he cried , ` my dear daughter , if indeed thou lovest me as I love thee , give me not the pain of seeing thee die with thy pious soul fixed on mortal things . 
` Dearest lamb of all my fold , for whose soul I must answer , oh think not now of mortal love , but of His who died for thee on the tree . 
She turned a look of gratitude and obedience on him . 
Gerard prayed fervently for her passing spirit . 
And when he had prayed a long time with his head averted , not to see her last breath , all seemed unnaturally still . 
He turned his head fearfully . 
Nothing left him now , but the earthly shell of as constant , pure , and loving a spirit , as ever adorned the earth . 
Gerard did the last offices of the Church for the departed , just as he should have done them for his smallest parishioner . 
Then in a transport of religious enthusiasm he kneeled and thanked Heaven for her Christian end . 
And then all his thought was to take her away from strangers , and lay her in his own churchyard . 
The mourner 's short-lived energy had exhausted itself in the necessary preparations , and now he lay crushed , clinging to the cold lead that held her . 
But Gerard repulsed them , and , when they persisted , almost snarled at them , like a faithful dog , and clung to the cold lead all night . 
So then they drew a cloak over him , and left him in peace . 
But at the sound of earth falling on her , Gerard uttered a piercing scream . 
Gerard staggered and put his hand to his breast . 
The sexton supported him , and called for help . 
Jorian Ketel , who lingered near , mourning his benefactress , ran into the churchyard , and the two supported Gerard into the manse . 
good Jorian ! ' 
said he , ` something snapped within me ; I felt it , and I heard it : here Jorian , here : ' and he put his hand to his breast . 
The sick man was Gerard , come to end life as he began it . 
He entered as a novice , on probation ; but the truth was , he was a failing man , and knew it , and came there to die in peace , near kind and gentle Ambrose his friend , and the other monks to whom his house and heart had always been open . 
His manse was more than he could bear ; it was too full of reminiscences of her . 
The prior then sent for Gerard , and he went to him ; and the moment they saw one another they both started . 
Jerome was as morose as ever in his general character ; but he had somewhat softened towards Gerard . 
All the time he was in England he had missed him more than he thought possible , and since then had often wondered what had become of him . 
What he heard in Gouda raised his feeble brother in his good opinion : above all that he had withstood the Pope and the Minorites on ` the infernal heresy of the immaculate conception , ' as he called it . 
But when one of his young monks told him with tears in his eyes the cause of Gerard 's illness , all his contempt revived . 
` Dying for a woman ? ' 
He determined to avert this scandal : he visited Clement twice a day in his cell , and tried all his old influence and all his eloquence to induce him to shake off this unspiritual despondency , and not rob the Church of his piety and his eloquence at so critical a period . 
Gerard heard him , approved his reasoning , admired his strength , confessed his own weakness , and continued visibly to wear away to the land of the leal . 
And so it was that in a few days more Gerard lay a dying in a frame of mind so holy and happy , that more than one aged saint was there to garner his dying words . 
In the evening he had seen Giles , and begged him not to let poor Jack starve : and to see that little Gerard 's trustees did their duty , and to kiss his parents for him , and to send Denys to his friends in Burgundy : ` Poor thing , he will feel so strange here without his comrade . ' 
And after that he had an interview with Jerome alone . 
This much is certain , that Gerard did utter these words , and prepare for his departure , having uttered them . 
They came , and hovered like gentle spirits round him with holy words . 
Some prayed in silence for him with their faces touching the ground , others tenderly supported his head . 
But when one of them said something about his life of self-denial and charity , he stopped him , and addressing them all said , ` My dear brethren , take note that he , who here dies so happy , holds not these newfangled doctrines of man 's merit . 
The next day Gerard was buried in Gouda churchyard . 
The monks followed him in procession from the convent . 
Poor Gerard 's , light as a feather -LRB- so wasted was he -RRB- , was lowered , and placed by the side of it . 
In compliance with a custom I despise , but have not the spirit to resist , I linger on the stage to pick up the smaller fragments of humanity I have scattered about : i.e. some of them , for the wayside characters have no claim on me ; they have served their turn if they have persuaded the reader that Gerard travelled from Holland to Rome through human beings , and not through a population of dolls . 
Eli and Catherine lived to a great age : lived so long that both Gerard and Margaret grew to be dim memories . 
The yellow-haired laddie , Gerard Gerardson , belongs not to Fiction but to History . 
