This only son and heir Mr. Glowry had christened Scythrop , from the name of a maternal ancestor , who had hanged himself one rainy day in a fit of tædium vitæ , and had been eulogised by a coroner 's jury in the comprehensive phrase of felo de se ; on which account , Mr. Glowry held his memory in high honor , and made a punchbowl of his skull . 
When Scythrop grew up , he was sent , as usual , to a public school , where a little learning was painfully beaten into him , and from thence to the University , where it was carefully taken out of him ; and he was sent home like a well-threshed ear of corn , with nothing in his head : having finished his education to the high satisfaction of the master and fellows of his college , who had , in testimony of their approbation , presented him with a silver fish-slice , on which his name figured at the head of a laudatory inscription in some semi-barbarous dialect of Anglo-saxonised Latin . 
His fellow-students , however , who drove tandem and random in great perfection , and were connoisseurs in good inns , had taught him to drink deep ere he departed . 
He had passed much of his time with thes choice spirits , and had seen the rays of the midnight lamp tremble on many a lengthening file of empty bottles . 
He passed his vacations sometimes at Nightmare Abbey , sometimes in London , at the house of his uncle , Mr. Hilary , a very cheerful and elastic gentleman , who had married the sister of the melancholy Mr. Glowry . 
Scythrop danced with the ladies and drank with the gentlemen , and was pronounced by both a very accomplished charming fellow , and an honor to the University . 
At the house of Mr. Hilary , Scythrop first saw the beautiful Miss Emily Girouette . 
He fell in love ; which is nothing new . 
He was favorably received ; which is nothing strange . 
Scythrop received this intelligence at Nightmare Abbey , and was half distracted on the occasion . 
It was his first disappointment , and preyed deeply on his sensitive spirit . 
His father , to comfort him , read him a Commentary on Ecclesiastes , which he had himself composed , and which demonstrated incontrovertibly that all is vanity . 
He insisted particularly on the text , `` One man among a thousand have I found , but a woman amongst all those have I not found . '' 
`` How could he expect it , '' said Scythrop , `` when the whole thousand were locked up in his seraglio ? 
I speak feelingly , Scythrop . '' 
`` I am sorry for it , Sir , '' said Scythrop . 
But , whatever be the cause , Scythrop , the effect is certainly this : that one is pretty nearly as good as another , as far as any judgment can be formed of them before marriage . 
This very excellent reasoning was thrown away upon Scythrop , who retired to his tower as dismal and disconsolate as before . 
The tower which Scythrop inhabited stood at the south-eastern angle of the Abbey ; and , on the southern side , the foot of the tower opened on a terrace , which was called the garden , though nothing grew on it but ivy , and a few amphibious weeds . 
When at Nightmare Abbey , he would condole with Mr. Glowry , -- drink Madeira with Scythrop , -- crack jokes with Mr. Hilary , -- hand Mrs. Hilary to the piano , take charge of her fan and gloves , and turn over her music with surprising dexterity , -- quote Revelations with Mr. Toobad , -- and lament the good old times of feudal darkness with the transcendental Mr. Flosky . 
Shortly after the disastrous termination of Scythrop 's passion for Miss Emily Girouette , Mr. Glowry found himself , much against his will , involved in a law-suit , which compelled him to dance attendance on the High Court of Chancery . 
Scythrop was left alone at Nightmare Abbey . 
He was a burnt child , and dreaded the fire of female eyes . 
He wandered about the ample pile , or along the garden-terrace , with `` his cogitative faculties immersed in cogibundity of cogitation . '' 
Here would Scythrop take his evening seat , on a fallen fragment of mossy stone , with his back resting against the ruined wall , -- a thick canopy of ivy , with an owl in it , over his head , -- and the Sorrows of Werter in his hand . 
He had had some taste for romance - reading before he went to the university , where , we must confess , in justice to his college , he was cured of the love of reading in all its shapes ; and the cure would have been radical , if disappointment in love , and total solitude , had not conspired to bring on a relapse . 
He began to devour romances and German tragedies , and , by the recommendation of Mr. Flosky , to pore over ponderous tomes of transcendental philosophy , which reconciled him to the labour of studying them by their mystical jargon and necromantic imagery . 
Scythrop proceeded to mediate on the practicability of reviving a confederation of regenerators . 
To get a clear view of his own ideas , and to feel the pulse of the wisdom and genius of the age , he wrote and published a treatise , in which his meanings were carefully wrapt up in the monk 's hood of transcendental technilogy , but filled with hints of matter deep and dangerous , which he thought would set the whole nation in a ferment ; and he awaited the result in awful expectation , as a miner , who has fired a train , awaits the explosion of a rock . 
However , he listened and heard nothing ; for the explosion , if any ensued , was not sufficiently loud to shake a single leaf of the ivy on the towers of Nightmare Abbey ; and some months afterwards he received a letter from his bookseller , informing him that only seven copies had been sold , and concluding with a polite request for the balance . 
Scythrop did not despair . 
`` Seven copies , '' he thought , `` have been sold . 
Scythrop had a certain portion of mechanical genius , which his romantic projects tended to develop . 
He constructed models of cells and recesses , sliding pannels and secret passages , that would have baffled the skill of the Parisian police . 
He took the opportunity of his father 's absence to smuggle a dumb carpenter into the Abbey , and between them they gave reality to one of these models in Scythrop 's tower . 
Scythrop foresaw that a great leader of human regeneration would be involved in fearful dilemmas , and determined , for the benefit of mankind in general , to adopt all possible precautions for the preservation of himself . 
Scythrop stalked about like the grand inquisitor , and the servants flitted past him like familiars . 
In his evening meditations on the terrace , under the ivy of the ruined tower , the only sounds that came to his ear were the rustling of the wind in the ivy , -- the plaintive voices of the feathered choristers , the owls , -- the occasional striking of the Abbey-clock , -- and the monotonous dash of the sea on its low and level shore . 
In the mean time he drank Maderia , and laid deep schemes for a thorough repair of the crazy fabric of human nature . 
He found Scythrop in a mood most sympathetically tragic , and they vied with each other in enlivening their cups by lamenting the depravity of this degenerate age , and occasionally interspersing divers grim jokes about graves , worms , and epitaphs . 
At the same time arrived Scythrop 's friend and fellow-collegian , the Honorable Mr. Listless . 
Whether she was touched with a penchant for her cousin Scythrop , or was merely curious to see what effect the tender passion would have on so outré a person ; she had not been three days in the Abbey , before she threw out all the lures of her beauty and accomplishments to make a prize of his heart . 
Scythrop proved an easy conquest . 
Scythrop 's romantic dreams had indeed given him many pure anticipated cognitions of combinations of beauty and intelligence , which , he had some misgivings , were not exactly realised in his cousin Marionetta ; but , in spite of these misgivings , he soon became distractedly in love ; which when the young lady clearly perceived , she altered her tactics , and assumed as much coldness and reserve as she had before shewn ardent and ingenuous attachment . 
Scythrop was confounded at the sudden change ; but , instead of falling at her feet and requesting an explanation , he retreated to his tower , muffled himself in his night-cap , seated himself in the president 's chair of his imaginary secret tribunal , summoned Marionetta with all terrible formalities , frightened her out of her wits , disclosed himself , and clasped the beautiful penitent to his bosom . 
While he was acting this reverie , -- in the moment in which the awful president of the secret tribunal was throwing back his cowl and his mantle , and discovering himself to the lovely culprit as her adoring and magnanimous lover , the door of the study opened , and the real Marionetta appeared . 
The motives which had led her to the tower were a little penitence , a little concern , a little affection , and a little fear as to what the sudden secession of Scythrop , occasioned by her sudden change of manner , might protend . 
`` For heaven 's sake , '' said she , `` my dear Scythrop , what is the matter ? '' 
`` For heaven 's sake , indeed , '' said Scythrop , springing from the table ; `` for your sake , Marionetta , and you are my heaven , -- distraction is the matter . 
He threw himself at her knees , devoured her hand with kisses , and breathed a thousand vows in the most passionate language of romance . 
The young lady was terrified ; and , deeming it expedient to sooth him , took one of his hands in hers , placed the other hand on his shoulder , looked up in his face with a winning seriousness , and said , in the tenderest possible tone , `` What would you have , Scythrop ? '' 
Scythrop was in heaven again . 
`` I am afraid I should be but a poor auxiliary , Scythrop . 
She disengaged herself suddenly from Scythrop , sprang through the door of the tower , and fled with precipitation along the corridors . 
Scythrop pursued her , crying , `` Stop , stop , Marionetta , -- my life , my love ! '' 
and was gaining rapidly on her flight , when , at an ill-omened corner , where two corridors ended in an angle , at the head of a staircase , he came into sudden and violent contact with Mr. Toobad , and they both plunged together to the foot of the stairs , like two billiard-balls into one pocket . 
This gave the young lady time to escape , and enclose herself in her chamber ; while Mr. Toobad , rising slowly , and rubbing his knees and shoulders , said , `` You see , my dear Scythrop , in this little incident , one of the innumerable proofs of the temporary supremacy of the devil ; for what but a systematic design and concurrent contrivance of evil could have made the angles of time and place coincide in our unfortunate persons at the head of this accursed staircase ? '' 
`` Nothing else , certainly , '' said Scythrop : `` you are perfectly in the right , Mr. Toobad . 
So saying , he embraced Scythrop , who retired , with a disconsolate step , to dress for dinner ; while Mr. Toobad stalked across the hall , repeating , `` Woe to the inhabiters of the earth , and of the sea , for the devil is come among you , having great wrath . '' 
The flight of Marionetta , and the pursuit of Scythrop , had been witnessed by Mr. Glowry , who , in consequence , narrowly observed his son and his niece in the evening ; and , concluding from their manner , that there was a better understanding between them than he wished to see , he determined on obtaining , the next morning , from Scythrop , a full and satisfactory explanation . 
He , therefore , shortly after breakfast , entered Scythrop 's tower , with a very grave face , and said , without ceremony or preface , `` So , sir , you are in love with your cousin . '' 
Scythrop , with as little hesitation , answered , `` Yes , sir . '' 
`` Now that is very provoking , Scythrop , and very disappointing : I could not have supposed that you , Scythrop Glowry , of Nightmare Abbey , would have been infatuated with such a dancing , laughing , singing , thoughtless , careless , merry-hearted thing , as Marionetta , -- in all respects the reverse of you and me . 
It is very disappointing , Scythrop . 
I have made a choice for you , Scythrop . 
Having said these words , he vanished suddenly , in the dread of Scythrop 's logic . 
Marionetta listened in silent submission , for she knew that her inheritance was passive obedience ; but , when Scythrop , who had watched the opportunity of Mrs. Hilary 's departure , entered , and , without speaking a word , threw himself at her feet in a paroxysm of grief , the young lady , in equal silence and sorrow , threw her arms round his neck and burst into tears . 
But when Marionetta hinted that she was to leave the Abbey immediately , Scythrop snatched from its repository his ancestor 's skull , filled it with Madeira , and , presenting himself before Mr. Glowry , threatened to drink off the contents if Mr. Glowry did not immediately promise that Marionetta should not be taken from the Abbey without her own consent . 
Scythrop returned to Marionetta with a joyful heart , and drank the Madeira by the way . 
Mr. Glowry , during his residence in London , had come to an agreement with his friend Mr. Toobad , that a match between Scythrop and Mr. Toobad 's daughter would be a very desirable occurrence . 
He was , therefore , very much disturbed by Scythrop 's untoward attachment to Marionetta . 
He condoled on the occasion with Mr. Toobad ; who said , that he had been too long accustomed to the intermeddling of the devil in all his affairs , to be astonished at this new trace of his cloven claw ; but that he hoped to outwit him yet , for he was sure there could be no comparison between his daughter and Marionetta in the mind of any one who had a proper perception of the fact , that , the world being a great theatre of evil , seriousness and solemnity are the characteristics of wisdom , and laughter and merriment make a human being no better than a baboon . 
-- `` There can be no doubt , '' said Mr. Glowry , `` which way the scale will incline , or Scythrop is no true scion of the venerable stem of the Glowrys . '' 
Marionetta felt secure of Scythrop 's heart ; and , notwithstanding the difficulties that surrounded her , she could not debar herself from the pleasure of tormenting her lover , whom she kept in a perpetual fever . 
Sometimes she would sit by the piano , and listen with becoming attention to Scythrop 's pathetic remonstrances ; but , in the most impassioned part of his oratory , she would convert all his ideas into a chaos , by striking up some Rondo Allegro , and saying `` Is it not pretty ? '' 
Scythrop would begin to storm ; and she would answer him with `` Zitti , zitti , piano , piano , Non facciamo confusione , '' or some similar facezia , till he would start away from her , and enclose himself in his tower , in an agony of agitation , vowing to renounce her , and her whole sex , for ever ; and returning to her presence at the summons of the billet , which she never failed to send with many expressions of penitence and promises of amendment . 
Scythrop 's schemes for regenerating the world , and detecting his seven golden candlesticks , went on very slowly in this fever of his spirit . 
Scythrop had quarrelled , as usual , with Marionetta , and was enclosed in his tower , in a fit of morbid sensibility . 
Scythrop , tormented by the demon Jealousy , sat in the corner , biting his lips and fingers . 
-- `` I am in the middle of hell , '' said Scythrop , furiously . 
`` Let me alone , '' said Scythrop . 
Marionetta looked at him with a deprecating smile , and said , `` You unjust , cross creature , you . '' 
-- `` Let me alone , '' said Scythrop , but much less emphatically than at first , and by no means wishing to be taken at his word . 
Marionetta left him immediately , and , returning to the harp , said , just loud enough for Scythrop to hear -- `` Did you ever read Dante , Mr. Listless ? 
Scythrop is reading Dante , and is just now in Purgatory . '' 
All were silent , and Marionetta sung : -- Scythrop immediately replaced Dante on the shelf , and joined the circle round the beautiful singer . 
Marionetta observed , the next day , a remarkable perturbation in Scythrop , for which she could not imagine any probable cause . 
She was well aware that Scythrop had a strong tendency to the love of mystery , for its own sake ; that is to say , he would employ mystery to serve a purpose , but would first choose his purpose by its capability of mystery . 
He seemed now to have more mystery on his hands than the laws of the system allowed , and to wear his coat of darkness with an air of great discomfort . 
Marionetta made many ineffectual attempts to extract from Scythrop the secret of his mystery ; and , in despair of drawing it from himself , began to form hopes that she might find a clue to it from Mr. Flosky , who was Scythrop 's dearest friend , and was more frequently than any other person admitted to his solitary tower . 
I must apologise for intruding on you , Mr. Flosky ; but the interest which I -- you -- take in my cousin Scythrop -- Pardon me , Miss O'Carroll : I do not take any interest in any person or thing on the face of the earth ; which sentiment , if you analyse it , you will find to be the quintessence of the most refined philanthropy . 
My cousin , Scythrop , has of late had an air of mystery about him , which gives me great uneasiness . 
-- My cousin Scythrop seems to have some secret preying on his mind . 
Scythrop grew every day more reserved , mysterious , and distrait ; and gradually lengthened the duration of his diurnal seclusions in his tower . 
Still , though her spirits were depressed , her playfulness had not so totally forsaken her , but that it illuminated , at intervals , the gloom of Nightmare Abbey ; and , if , on any occasion , she observed in Scythrop tokens of unextinguished or returning passion , her love of tormenting her lover immediately got the better both of her grief and her sympathy , though not of her curiosity , which Scythrop seemed determined not to satisfy . 
Scythrop perceived the change , found his tender sympathies awakened , and did his utmost to comfort the afflicted damsel , assuring her that his seeming inattention had only proceeded from his being involved in a profound meditation on a very hopeful scheme for the regeneration of human society . 
Marionetta called him ungrateful , cruel , cold-hearted , and accompanied her reproaches with many sobs and tears ; poor Scythrop growing every moment more soft and submissive , -- till , at length , he threw himself at her feet , and declared , that no competition of beauty however dazzling , genius however transcendent , talents however cultivated , or philosophy however enlightened , should ever make him renounce his divine Marionetta . 
Scythrop was confounded . 
Still kneeling , he kissed her hand with rueful timidity , and said , in most pathetic accents , `` Do you not love me , Marionetta ? '' 
Scythrop still looked up incredulously . 
very well , madam , '' said Scythrop , rising , `` if that is the case , there are those in the world -- '' `` To be sure there are , sir ; -- and do you suppose I do not see through your designs , you ungenerous monster ? '' 
`` Yes , your designs , Scythrop . 
Scythrop endeavoured to remonstrate , but without success . 
She reiterated her injunctions to him to leave her , till , in the simplicity of his spirit , he was preparing to comply . 
When he had nearly reached the door , Marionetta said , `` Farewell . '' 
Scythrop looked back . 
`` Farewell , Scythrop , '' she repeated , `` you will never see me again . '' 
`` I shall go from hence to-morrow , perhaps to-day ; and , before we meet again , one of us will be married , and we might as well be dead , you know , Scythrop . '' 
Scythrop was not exactly prepared for this decisive step : but he could only stammer out , `` Really , sir , you are too good ; '' and Mr. Glowry departed to bring Mr. Hilary to ratify the act . 
Now , whatever truth there may be in the theory of love and language , of which we have so recently spoken , certain it is , that during Mr. Glowry 's absence , which lasted half an hour , not a single word was said by either Scythrop or Marionetta . 
Scythrop was also silent for a time , and at length hesitatingly said , `` My dear sir , your goodness overpowers me ; but really you are so precipitate . '' 
`` Why , Scythrop , '' said Mr. Glowry , elongating his face exceedingly , `` the devil is come among us , sure enough , as Mr. Toobad observes : I thought you and Marionetta were both of a mind . '' 
`` So we are , I believe , sir , '' said Scythrop , gloomily , and stalked away to his tower . 
On the evening on which Mr. Asterias had caught a glimpse of a female figure on the sea-shore , which he had translated into the visual sign of his interior cognition of a mermaid , Scythrop , retiring to his tower , found his study pre-occupied . 
Scythrop paused in surprise . 
This scrutiny being completed , the stranger , dropping the cloak , said , `` I see , by your physiognomy , that you may be trusted ; '' and revealed to the astonished Scythrop a female form and countenance of dazzling grace and beauty , with long flowing hair of raven blackness , and large black eyes of almost oppressive brilliancy : which strikingly contrasted with a complexion of snowy whiteness . 
Scythrop , therefore , either was or ought to have been frightened : at all events , he was astonished ; and astonishment , though not in itself fear , is nevertheless a good stage towards it , and is , indeed , as it were , the half-way house between respect and terror , according to Mr. Burke 's graduated scale of the sublime.There must be some mistake in this , for the whole honorable band of gentlemen-pensioners has resolved unanimously , that Mr. Burke was a very sublime person , particularly after he had prostituted his own soul , and betrayed his country and mankind , for 1200l . 
`` Certainly not , '' said Scythrop ; `` but when any class of objects has habitually presented itself to our perceptions , in invariable conjunction with particular relations , then , on the sudden appearance of one object of the class , divested of those accompaniments , the essential difference of the relation is , by an involuntary process , transferred to the object itself , which thus offers itself to our perceptions with all the strangeness of novelty . '' 
''' `` I am , '' said Scythrop , delighted at this first blossom of his renown . 
said Scythrop , more and more amazed , and not a little perplexed . 
Doubtless , thought Scythrop , this is one of my golden candlesticks . 
`` I have constructed , '' said he , `` in this tower , an entrance to a small suite of unknown apartments in the main building , which I defy any creature living to detect . 
Scythrop ventured to enquire the name of his fair protégée . 
Scythrop intended to find her another asylum , but from day to day he postponed his intention , and by degrees forgot it . 
The young lady reminded him of it from day to day , till she also forgot it . 
Scythrop was anxious to learn her history ; but she would add nothing to what she had already communicated , that she was shunning an atrocious persecution . 
Scythrop thought of Lord C. and the Alien Act , and said , `` As you will not tell your name , I suppose it is in the green-bag . '' 
Stella , not understanding what he meant , was silent ; and Scythrop , translating silence into acquiescence , concluded that he was sheltering an illuminée , whom Lord S. suspected of an intention to take the Tower , and set fire to the Bank : exploits , at least , as likely to be accomplished by the hands and eyes of a young beauty , as by a drunken cobbler and doctor , armed with a pamphlet and an old stocking . 
Stella , in her conversations with Scythrop , displayed a highly cultivated and energetic mind , full of impassioned schemes of liberty , and impatience of masculine usurpation . 
She was intimately conversant with the German language and literature ; and Scythrop listened with delight to her repetitions of her favorite passages from Schiller and Göethe , and to her encomiums on the sublime Spartacus Weishaupt , the immortal founder of the sect of the Illuminati . 
Scythrop found that his soul had a greater capacity of love than the image of Marionetta had filled . 
He judged , from his new friend calling herself Stella , that , if it were not her real name , she was an admirer of the principles of the German play from which she had taken it , and took an opportunity of leading the conversation to that subject : but , to his great surprise , the lady spoke very ardently of the singleness and exclusiveness of love , and declared that the reign of affection was one and indivisible ; that it might be transferred , but could not be participated . 
Scythrop did not dare to mention the name of Marionetta : he trembled lest some unlucky accident should reveal it to Stella , though he scarcely knew what result to wish or anticipate , and lived in the double fever of a perpetual dilemma . 
He could not dissemble to himself that he was in love , at the same time , with two damsels of minds and habits as remote as the Antipodes . 
The scale of predilection always inclined to the fair one who happened to be present , but the absent was never effectually outweighed , though the degrees of exaltation and depression varied according to accidental variations in the outward and visible signs of the inward and spiritual graces of his respective charmers . 
Passing and re-passing several times a day from the company of the one to that of the other , he was like a shuttlecock between two battledores , changing its direction as rapidly as the oscillations of a pendulum , receiving many a hard knock on the cork of a sensitive heart , and flying from point to point on the feathers of a super-sublimated head . 
He had now as much mystery about him as any romantic transcendentalist or transcendental romancer could desire . 
He had his esoterical and his exoterical love . 
He could not endure the thought of losing either of them , but he trembled when he imagined the possibility that some fatal discovery might deprive him of both . 
The old proverb concerning two strings to a bow gave him some gleams of comfort : but that concerning two stools occurred to him more frequently , and covered his forehead with a cold perspiration . 
With Stella , he could indulge freely in all his romantic and philosophical visions . 
He could build castles in the air , and she would pile towers and turrets on the imaginary edifices . 
She loved Scythrop , she hardly knew why : indeed , she was not always sure that she loved him at all : she felt her fondness increase or diminish in an inverse ratio to his . 
When she had manoeuvred him into a fever of passionate love , she often felt , and always assumed indifference : if she found that her coldness was contagious , and that Scythrop either was , or pretended to be , as indifferent as herself , she would become doubly kind , and raise him again to that elevation from which she had previously thrown him down . 
Thus , when his love was flowing , hers was ebbing : when his was ebbing , hers was flowing . 
Now and then there were moments of level tide , when reciprocal affection seemed to promise imperturbable harmony : but Scythrop could scarcely resign his spirit to the pleasing illusion , before the pinnace of the lover 's affections was caught in some eddy of the lady 's caprice , and he was whirled away from the shore of his hopes , without rudder or compass , into an ocean of mists and storms . 
It resulted , from this system of conduct , that all that passed between Scythrop and Marionetta consisted in making and unmaking love . 
He had no opportunity to take measure of her understanding by conversation on general subjects , and on his favorite designs ; and , being left , in this respect , to the exercise of indefinite conjecture , he took it for granted , as most lovers would do in similar circumstances , that she had great natural talents , which she wasted at present on trifles : but coquetry would end with marriage , and leave room for philosophy to exert its influence on her mind . 
Stella had no coquetry , no disguise : she was an enthusiast in subjects of general interest ; and her conduct to Scythrop was always uniform , or rather shewed a regular progression of partiality , which seemed fast ripening into love . 
Scythrop , attending one day the summons to dinner , found in the drawing-room his friend Mr. Cypress , the poet , whom he had known at college , and who was a great favourite of Mr. Glowry . 
Mr. Cypress said , he was on the point of leaving England , but could not think of doing so without a farewell look at Nightmare Abbey and his respected friends , the moody Mr. Glowry and the mysterious Mr. Scythrop , the sublime Mr. Flosky and the pathetic Mr. Listless ; to all of whom , and the morbid hospitality of the melancholy dwelling , in which they were then assembled , he assured them he should always look back with as much affection as his lacerated spirit could feel for any thing . 
You have only to impress its truth on the minds of all living men , and life will then , indeed , be the desert and the solitude ; and I must do you , myself , and our mutual friends , the justice to observe , that , let society only give fair play at one and the same time , as I flatter myself it is inclined to do , to your system of morals , and my system of metaphysics , and Scythrop 's system of politics , and Mr. Listless 's system of manners , and Mr. Toobad 's system of religion ; and the result will be as fine a mental chaos as even the immortal Kant himself could ever have hoped to see ; in the prospect of which I rejoice . 
Scythrop and Mr. Hilary meanwhile had hastened to his assistance , and , on arriving at the edge of the moat , followed by several servants with ropes and torches , found Mr. Asterias and Aquarius busy in endeavouring to extricate Mr. Toobad from the net , who was entangled in the meshes , and floundering with rage . 
Scythrop was lost in amazement ; but Mr. Hilary saw , at one view , all the circumstances of the adventure , and burst into an immoderate fit of laughter ; on recovering from which , he said to Mr. Asterias , `` You have caught an odd fish , indeed . '' 
Mr. Glowry was much surprised , on occasionally visiting Scythrop 's tower , to find the door always locked , and to be kept sometimes waiting many minutes for admission : during which he invariably heard a heavy rolling sound , like that of a ponderous mangle , or of a waggon , or of a weighing-bridge , or of theatrical thunder . 
He took little notice of this for some time : at length his curiosity was excited , and , one day , instead of knocking at the door , as usual , the instant he reached it , he applied his ear to the key-hole , and like Bottom , in the Midsummer Night 's Dream , `` spied a voice , '' which he guessed to be of the feminine gender , and knew to be not Scythrop 's , whose deeper tones he distinguished at intervals . 
Having attempted in vain to catch a syllable of the discourse , he knocked violently at the door , and roared for immediate admission . 
The voices ceased , the accustomed rolling sound was heard , the door opened , and Scythrop was discovered alone . 
said Scythrop . 
`` You are a fox , Scythrop ; you are an exceedingly cunning fox , with that demure visage of yours . 
`` But , sir , '' said Scythrop , `` a key-hole may be so constructed as to act like an acoustic tube , and an acoustic tube , sir , will modify sound in a very remarkable manner . 
`` It wo 'n' t do , Scythrop . 
-- He sounded round the room with his cane , but detected no hollowness . 
-- `` I have heard , sir , '' he continued , `` that , during my absence , two years ago , you had a dumb carpenter closeted with you day after day . 
Young men will have their way : I had my way when I was a young man : but , sir , when your cousin Marionetta -- '' Scythrop now saw that the affair was growing serious . 
To have clapped his hand upon his father 's mouth , to have entreated him to be silent , would , in the first place , not have made him so ; and , in the second , would have shown a dread of being overheard by somebody . 
His only resource , therefore , was to try to drown Mr. Glowry 's voice ; and , having no other subject , he continued his description of the ear , raising his voice continually as Mr. Glowry raised his . 
`` When your cousin Marionetta , '' said Mr. Glowry , `` whom you profess to love -- whom you profess to love , sir -- '' `` The internal canal of the ear , '' said Scythrop , `` is partly bony and partly cartilaginous . 
`` I can explain it all , '' said Scythrop , `` in a most satisfactory manner , if you will but have the goodness to leave us alone . '' 
Scythrop sat down by her , and took her hand . 
She snatched her hand away , and turned her back upon him . 
He rose , sat down on the other side , and took her other hand . 
She snatched it away , and turned from him again . 
Scythrop continued entreating Mr. Glowry to leave them alone ; but the old gentleman was obstinate , and would not go . 
He had been seeking Mr. Glowry , and had traced him to Scythrop 's tower . 
He stood a few moments in silent surprise , and then addressed himself to Mr. Glowry for an explanation . 
Scythrop was now in a hopeful predicament . 
Mr. Hilary made a hue and cry in the Abbey , and summoned his wife and Marionetta to Scythrop 's apartment . 
Scythrop , meanwhile , vainly endeavoured to get rid of Mr. Glowry , and to pacify Stella . 
Scythrop held her hand , and detained her by force , till Mr. Hilary re-appeared with Mrs. Hilary and Marionetta . 
Marionetta , seeing Scythrop grasping the hand of a strange beauty , fainted away in the arms of her aunt . 
Scythrop flew to her assistance ; and Stella , with redoubled anger , sprang towards the door , but was intercepted in her intended flight by being caught in the arms of Mr. Toobad , who exclaimed -- `` Celinda ! '' 
exclaimed Scythrop , and Mr. and Mrs. Hilary . 
Scythrop was equidistant from both of them , central and motionless , like Mahomet 's coffin . 
`` Mr. Scythrop , '' said Mr. Toobad , `` how came my daughter here ? '' 
`` By spontaneous locomotion , '' said Scythrop , sullenly . 
Scythrop knew not what to do . 
The whole party followed , with the exception of Scythrop , who threw himself into his arm-chair , crossed his left foot over his right knee , placed the hollow of his left hand on the interior ancle of his left leg , rested his right elbow on the elbow of the chair , placed the ball of his right thumb against his right temple , curved the forefinger along the upper part of his forehead , rested the point of the middle finger on the bridge of his nose , and the points of the two others on the lower part of the palm , fixed his eyes intently on the veins in the back of his left hand , and sat , in this position , like the immoveable Theseus , who , as is well known to many who have not been at college , and to some few who have , sedet , æternumque sedebit . 
Scythrop was still in this position , when Raven entered to announce that dinner was on table . 
`` I can not come , '' said Scythrop . 
`` Leave me , '' said Scythrop : `` go , and croak elsewhere . '' 
`` Good Raven , '' said Scythrop , `` I entreat you to leave me . '' 
Scythrop had dined , and was sipping his madeira alone , immersed in melancholy musing , when Mr. Glowry entered , followed by Raven , who , having placed an additional glass and set a chair for Mr. Glowry , withdrew . 
Mr. Glowry sat down opposite Scythrop . 
`` Do not talk so , sir ; -- do not talk so , Scythrop . 
`` Do 'n' t talk so , Scythrop . 
Be rational , my dear Scythrop . 
`` Scythrop -- Scythrop ; -- if one of them should come to you -- what then ? '' 
`` It can be , Scythrop : it will be : I promise you it will be . 
The day after Mr. Glowry 's departure was one of incessant rain , and Scythrop repented of the promise he had given . 
The next day was one of bright sunshine : he sat on the terrace , read a tragedy of Sophocles , and was not sorry , when Raven announced dinner , to find himself alive . 
Crow answered , `` The wind blows , and the windmills turn , but I see nothing coming : '' and , at every answer , Scythrop found the necessity of raising his spirits with a bumper . 
Scythrop placed it on the table , and Raven departed . 
Scythrop called again to Crow ; and Crow , who had fallen asleep , answered mechanically , `` I see nothing coming . '' 
Scythrop laid his pistol between his watch and his bottle . 
Scythrop called again to Crow : Crow answered as before . 
Scythrop rang the bell : Raven appeared . 
`` Raven , '' said Scythrop , `` the clock is too fast . '' 
`` No , indeed , '' said Raven , who knew nothing of Scythrop 's intentions ; `` if any thing , it is too slow . '' 
said Scythrop , pointing the pistol at him , `` it is too fast . '' 
said Scythrop . 
said Scythrop , pointing the pistol again . 
`` Put back my watch , '' said Scythrop . 
Raven , with trembling hand , was putting back the watch , when the rattle of wheels was heard in the court , and Scythrop springing down the stairs by three steps together , was at the door in sufficient time to have handed either of the young ladies from the carriage , if she had happened to be in it : but Mr. Glowry was alone . 
Scythrop impatiently broke the seals . 
Scythrop tore both the letters to atoms , and railed in good set terms against the fickleness of women . 
`` Calm yourself , my dear Scythrop , '' said Mr. Glowry ; `` there are yet maidens in England . '' 
`` Very true , sir , '' said Scythrop . 
`` Very good advice , sir , '' said Scythrop . 
`` Then that villain , Raven , '' said Scythrop , `` deceived me when he said that the clock was too fast : but , as you observe very justly , the time has gone by , and I have just reflected , that these repeated crosses in love qualify me to take a very advanced degree in misanthropy ; and there is , therefore , good hope that I may make a figure in the world . '' 
