`` If my name will throw any light upon the affair , '' said the first , good-humouredly , `` I am called Mr. Claude Wyndham . '' 
I intended to say that , before I answered the query , I should know whether he who puts it is in search of knowledge or pleasure . '' 
`` May I ask , '' continued Mr. Wyndham , `` whether you are sufficiently acquainted there to give me information respecting the person to whom I bring a letter . 
`` Then give me leave sincerely to hope , '' said Mr. Wyndham , `` that an acquaintance so pleasantly commenced may be continued . '' 
This discovery seemed to place Mr. Wyndham and his complaisant friend on a new footing . 
They had already been prepossessed in each other 's favour ; and , now that the lady discovered her unknown companion to be on the eve of appearing in the Berlin circles under the auspices of Count Carolan , one of the leading members of the haute societé ; and now , too , that Mr. Wyndham learned that his fellow-passenger was a member of Count Carolan 's family , the doubts which exist between travellers , however mutually agreeable when not acquainted with each other 's standing and character , were entirely dispelled . 
Who was Mr. Wyndham ? 
and why the sadness with which he had alluded to himself ? 
Mr. Wyndham , on the other hand , wondered what relation existed between his companion and the Carolans , and whether he was addressing a wife , a sister , or a poor relative . 
resumed Mr. Wyndham , when they found themselves once more en route . 
asked Claude . 
cried Wyndham , jestingly , `` unless you mean to make me wretched for life . 
`` Indeed , if you are going to spend much time in Berlin , Mr. Wyndham , '' said Madame Wharton , `` I have been rash in colouring the portrait of my young friend so highly ; but , before it is too late , allow me to repair my error . '' 
`` As far as possible , '' interrupted Wyndham , smiling . 
said Wyndham . 
Madame W. made no answer ; and a slight yawn , partly suppressed , broke from the lips of Wyndham , announcing that fatigue and drowsiness were becoming too strong for even the attractions of the fair young countess . 
Claude wrapped himself well up in his cloak . 
Claude also sometimes , refreshed by a sound nap , would turn himself into a new position , and suffer his mind to run on in advance to the Prussian metropolis ; to the scenes hallowed by the eccentricities and genius of the great Frederic , then recently deceased , and to the gay saloons where , ere long , he was to behold the young person whom a lady of such intelligence had pronounced so superior in character and so lovely in person . 
A gray light fell coldly in through the carriage windows , promising to reveal a more satisfactory view of each other than Madame Wharton and Claude had yet been able to obtain . 
The cold night-mists rose from their resting-places in the wide heaths and dark hollows , uncurtaining the silent and almost desert plains , which , monotonous as they were , had , in the eyes of Claude , a certain inexpressible beauty , stretching off into azure distance like the ocean . 
As length , reddening and brightening as he advanced , the sun rose above the sombre circle which had so long hailed his coming , and shed a rosy radiance over the scene . 
While Claude watched the magnificent changes going on over the heaven and earth , and lifted his soul in humble adoration of Him before whose brightness the sun himself is dim , the other occupants of the diligence remained locked in profound slumber . 
Madame Wharton 's veil had fallen aside and revealed her features . 
She was a fine-looking woman of about two or three-and-forty . 
Her countenance was regular and handsome . 
Her dress was that of one belonging to the higher classes of society , although modest and unpretending . 
Besides Claude and herself , there were three other persons in the diligence . 
Upon turning his eyes to the third person -LRB- although we do not vouch for the fact that she was the last object of his examination -RRB- , Claude beheld a really very pretty girl , extremely well dressed , round and graceful in her form , her countenance feminine , soft , and even lovely , and her whole air , though fast asleep , so much superior to what our young traveller had anticipated , that he somewhat hastily took off his cotton nightcap , brushed back his hair , arranged it around his forehead , and made as many other reformations in his toilet as time and space permitted . 
Madame Wharton appeared advantageously in a room ; her figure was tall and dignified , her face by far handsomer than Claude had hitherto thought it , and her manners full of elegance and ease . 
He could not but again secretly congratulate himself upon the acquisition of such a valuable companion . 
The first two were pleased to address some friendly remarks to Madame Wharton and Claude , for whom they appeared to entertain a profound respect , while the latter could not avoid proffering to Miss Digby those attentions which youth loves to bestow , and which it seems but natural for beauty to receive . 
`` I am truly sorry , '' said Claude , `` to have lost the opportunity of being presented to that great man . 
echoed Claude . 
`` I never heard that before , '' said Claude , amused by the oddities of the honest dame . 
Claude found in these two people an ignorance of things most generally known , which surprised as much as it amused him . 
Claude 's good-natured endeavours to draw her into conversation elicited nothing more than a change of colour and monosyllabic replies , till at length he gave up the undertaking as impossible . 
Both Madame Wharton and Claude were puzzled to comprehend how so much wealth , and the relationship , to which she several times alluded , to the lately deceased Lord Clew , could be reconciled with so little education , and such a singular ignorance of the forms of even third-rate polite life . 
On many occasions Claude obligingly acted as their interpreter , the more readily as the modest Mary looked her gratitude in a very obvious manner , although she had not yet found courage to put it in words . 
On stopping for dinner , towards the close of that meal Digby begged Claude to call for some beer , and the attention of the strangers in the room was attracted by his exclamation of , `` Ho la , what the devil 's the fool at now ? '' 
On tasting the beer , which is of the lightest kind , more resembling ginger-pop than the solid drinks which pass by the same name in London , he spit it out with disgust , protesting that the idiots had given him poison . 
He then insisted upon Claude 's calling for some `` strong ale . '' 
The waiter shook his head in profound ignorance , though not without a broad grin , and Digby swore he was more than ever convinced that the `` people of the Continent were only half civilized . '' 
said Claude . 
`` I think I have heard of some such person , '' said Claude . 
`` Your story is like one of the Arabian Nights , '' said Claude . 
Claude , so much had they talked of the celebrated town they were approaching , glided in imagination through its streets , with temples , columns , and domes everywhere around him ; while Madame Wharton herself was once more young and lovely -- the admired and observed of all -- treading through scenes which Time , that ruthless and ever-busy robber , had long borne with him into his own dark realm of the past . 
Claude turned his eyes towards the dim , indistinct scenes flying past the carriage window , and , letting down the glass , admitted the cool , refreshing air . 
He began already to experience that pleasing sensation with which one enters , for the first time , a great foreign city . 
His mind was stored with historical associations of the great men who had lived and who still live there . 
The approach to the capital , after his long travel over the desert and apparently endless plains in which northern Germany inclines towards the Baltic , seemed like nearing land after a sea-voyage . 
As the Schnellpostentered the little village of Charlottenburg , these indications grew more numerous and striking , till the chateau and its beautiful grounds broke upon his eyes , looking in that early light like a scene of enchantment . 
said Claude . 
It was Claude 's intention to attend Madame Wharton home in a public coach ; but , as he was about making the offer , she saw Count Carolan 's carriage waiting for her , and a chasseur , in rich livery , advanced to take charge of her . 
Claude promised to take the earliest occasion to see her ; and then , at their earnest request , accompanied the Digbys to the Hôtel du Roi de Prusse . 
Claude decided to employ him for the day , and , if he liked him , to keep him . 
He was obviously modest and intelligent , and Claude liked him at a glance . 
`` I will employ you to-day , '' said Claude ; `` leave your certificates . 
Claude was pleased with the simplicity of this young man . 
There was about him an air of artlessness and good-nature which promised well . 
Accompanied by him , he commenced his first ramble through the town , then peculiarly interesting to strangers from the brilliant and recently-closed career of the great military genius who had rendered the Prussian army formidable to Europe . 
Claude 's first care was to leave his letter of introduction at Carolan 's . 
`` And so , then , '' thought Claude , as the tout-ensembleof this princely residence rose upon his eye , and he caught through the windows indistinct views of the interior magnificence -- angles of large paintings hung against the walls , snowy statues , golden ceilings and shutters , and gorgeous curtains -- `` this is the home of her whom Madame Wharton describes as so beautiful and superior . '' 
`` Show me the town , '' said Claude . 
Suffice it to say , that he was struck with the magnificence of everything around him . 
thought Claude , as everything wore a bright aspect through the atmosphere of an unusually clear day , `` I have got here into a very pretty town , and I will not leave it till I have laid out for myself a plan of future conduct . 
Claude gazed around him with these reflections . 
Suddenly he found himself by an open door , which led into a smaller apartment or little cabinet , also filled with pieces , apparently of a more valuable kind . 
At the end of this room , in a conspicuous place , and where the light fell across it with the best effect , was the portrait of a young girl , so beautiful , that he paused before it , and became presently unconscious of everything else . 
It equalled , and went beyond his idea of complete female loveliness . 
He could not tell whether it was a princess or a cottage maiden . 
His reveries were interrupted by a sigh . 
On turning , he observed at his side a young man who had before escaped his attention , and who , possibly , also supposed himself alone . 
He was about the middle height , slenderly formed , with a pale , melancholy face . 
His hair and brows were black , and he wore a large mustache . 
There was nothing remarkable in his physiognomy except his eyes , which were dark and large , and uncommonly brilliant . 
His hat was worn low over them . 
His clothes were old and faded . 
He was evidently very poor . 
said Claude , with a desire to relieve the embarrassment which the stranger appeared to feel on perceiving that his sigh had been overheard . 
continued Claude . 
Onthe day of Claude 's arrival in Berlin there was a ball and supper at Count Carolan 's . 
`` Madame , you are ill , '' said Claude -- for it was he -- hastening to her assistance . 
Her fine appearance and splendid ball-dress , as well as the distinguéair of Elkington , and the richness of the livery of the servants , excited Claude 's attention . 
On inquiring , he learned that he had aided Lady Beverly and Lord Elkington . 
Thenext morning , on coming in from a ramble , Claude found Count Carolan 's card , with an invitation to dinner the next day . 
In the mean time he amused himself exploring the town , ranging through the immense and splendid palaces , lounging in the Park , and seeing the various curiosities interesting to travellers . 
Returning from a walk later in the morning of the same day on which he received Carolan 's first note , he found another from him , begging him to be at home the next morning at twelve , as it would give him pleasure to accompany him in the call usually made by a stranger desirous of being introduced into society . 
Claude knew not whether to ascribe this attention to the representations of Madame Wharton , or to the letter of introduction from Lord Perceval . 
It was about three o'clock , and Claude , who , in the pleasure of seeing the town and reflections upon his own prospects and plans , had forgotten his honest fellow-voyagers and the modest Mary , thought he could not better employ the leisure hour before dinner than in paying the desired visit immediately . 
Mrs. Digby , in accordance with her plan of making a dash , had taken very elegant apartments ; and Claude found the new rooms in the broad and shaded street called `` the Linden , '' or sometimes , also , from the avenues of linden-trees which ornamented its whole length , sous les arbres . 
Claude really admired her modest face , the beautiful contour of her head , her clear and tender complexion , and the Hebe-like proportions of her form . 
For a moment he thought her almost as pretty as the painting which had so much attracted his attention . 
From the appearance of the whole party , he saw at once that , with the aid of dress -- if the two parents would only hold their tongues a little more , and Mary a little less -- they might , with the aid of their wealth , and under the protection of the name of their `` relative , the late Lord Clew , '' pass through the walks of fashion for a month or two as well as others . 
His coming was warmly welcomed . 
`` We 'll take care of Mr. Wyndham . 
You need n't think you 're going to get clear on his account . 
Only think , sir , '' continued she , turning to Claude again , `` a person connected with the late Lord Clew , and not to know a word of French . 
But , by-the-way , Mr. Wyndham , you have n't been introduced . 
This is our French master ; you need n't be afraid of what you say before him ; for -- he do n't understand a single word of English -- we talk our secrets before him , poor devil ! 
`` This is Mr. Wyndham , '' said Mrs. Digby . 
`` I say , '' cried Mrs. Digby , raising her voice almost to a scream , and putting her mouth close to his ear , as if she could make him better comprehend by speaking very loud ; `` I say , this is Mr. Wyndham -- Mounseer Wyndham -- our intimate friend -- came in the diligence with us from Hamburg -- because , you know , our travelling carriage was broke by that stupid John '' -LRB- here she cast a look of indignation on her unhappy husband -RRB- -- `` so hecame on with us . 
This scene afforded Claude an opportunity of observing the gentleman in question . 
He was a lank , weather-stained , long Frenchman , thinly clad in garments of a threadbare appearance . 
His trousers pockets reached nearly to his knees , and were obviously empty , except when his large hands were thrust into them , a peculiarity which had probably drawn upon him the sobriquetof `` long pockets '' from the humour of his interesting pupil . 
It is not impossible that he might have worn a shirt , but it is certain that there was no appearance of one , although , from his peculiar style of dress , the eye was easily able to penetrate a considerable way under his stock down his bony throat , and up the sleeves of his wristbands . 
His features were cast rather in a striking than elegant mould . 
His mouth was of great width ; his lips so large as to have , perhaps , afforded him the cognomen to which he usually replied . 
His ears , like his nose , were of ample size , and stood handsomely out from his head ; and his foot and hand were also of dimensions which rivalled each other . 
He was , in short , a very odd , but not a particularly ugly-looking person ; and , for the irregularities of physiognomy already stated , fortune had favoured him with a good set of teeth ; bright , intelligent eyes ; a head of hair remarkable for its abundance , and the flourishing manner in which , without tongs or pomade , it curled about his head ; and last , but not least , with a stock of self-approbation never exhausted and not exhaustible , flowing through all his veins , lurking in every angle and shade of his face , and creating -- happy mortal ! 
-- in his interior bosom an everlasting sunshine . 
She went on to give a long account , from which Claude learned that this Mr. Lippe had presented himself upon somebody 's recommendation , they did n't know whose , to give them a sufficient command of the French , not only to travel with less inconvenience than they had hitherto been accustomed to , but to enable them to launch with becoming grace and ease into the hitherto unexplored waters of fashionable life . 
`` Allons , '' said he , as Claude a moment lost the train of Mrs. Digby 's chat , which , luckily , she did not interrupt by any questions to obscure this scene ; `` pour le mot ` Ulysse . ' 
Mrs. Digby was in a rage also , and Claude could not himself help feeling indignant at the fraud which had undoubtedly been practised against the English strangers -- the pine-board bedstead having been sent instead of a mahogany one which they had chosen and paid for . 
Claude was going to take leave , but the vehemence of their entreaties that he would stay and dine left him no alternative . 
He gave his arm , therefore , to Mrs. Digby , when , to his surprise , Mr. Lippe offered his to Mary , and led her in . 
said Claude . 
`` If he is a gentleman , '' said Claude , `` I will protect you from this intrusion . 
`` The doors are open , and he may come in , '' said Claude , `` if he pleases ; but it will be without the consent , and contrary to the wishes of the family . 
said Claude to the footman . 
He then turned his glass carelessly to the ceiling , curtains , carpets , fauteuils , and other furniture . 
Claude stood before him very angry , and probably showing it in his attitude and manner ; but the intruder seemed to care very little for his wrath . 
He passed his glass an instant over his face and person , and then , as if he found nothing there worthy of a second look , he prepared to leave the room after a glance at the females , for he was one of those men who subject every woman 's face to an examination . 
On seeing Mary he stopped , and seemed evidently struck . 
`` I beg your pardon , my dear , '' said he ; `` I fear there has been some mistake . 
`` Oh , my lord , '' said Mrs. Digby , `` you are so kind ; I assure you , at any time -- at all times -- we shall be most happy , sir -- my lord , I mean -- to -- '' During this scene Claude had stood gazing on the person thus rudely pressing into a private house , and conducting himself so singularly ; and the feeling of indignation , which he could not repress , was plainly marked on his countenance . 
As Elkington withdrew , Claude perceived , for the first time , a female figure in the corridor . 
He recognised , at a glance , Lady Beverly , to whom he had rendered a slight service on the previous evening ; but his attention was particularly drawn towards her attitude and the expression of her features . 
Her attitude was not unlike that of one who has just perceived a basilisk in his path , and her eyes were fixed so intently on Claude , that , as if lost in thoughts not connected with the present , she did not interrupt her gaze even when his glance met hers . 
Claude was rendered almost nervous , as well by the profound conceit of Lippe , and the painful and never successful struggles of Digby to remember the principal word in every sentence he uttered . 
Gladto escape from a circle where he found so little attraction , Claude strolled through the streets . 
Almost unconsciously , his steps wandered towards the cabinet where he had seen the portrait . 
At the door he was surprised to find in his heart a kind of anxiety , as if he were seeking an interview with a real person , and was fearful of a disappointment . 
He entered , and made his way to the little room . 
Claude recovered himself in an instant , and said , `` You will perceive I am a great amateur of painting , monsieur . 
Modesty and poverty are so often the companions of merit , that Claude concluded at once -- from his silence , his faded clothes , his face thinned by application , and the bright glances of his eyes , which seemed full of the restless fire of genius -- that he was the painter . 
`` I must really express my admiration , '' said Claude , `` not only of the singular charm of the countenance , but of the exquisite beauty of the production as a work of art . 
`` Very likely , '' said Claude ; `` but -- '' `` The person of whom this is a feeble copy , '' said the stranger , `` exists ; but you would regard her without any of the enthusiasm which you show at the sight of her picture . '' 
`` You speak in enigmas , '' said Claude , struck with a certain earnestness in the voice and manner of his companion . 
thought Claude , `` how singular ! 
And thus all his reveries at last ended in a moral , which , being duly digested , he went to the theatre . 
It was the hour of the appointment , and Claude was ready to receive him . 
Claude 's appearance was calculated to make a favourable impression on a man of tonlike Carolan . 
He made himself very agreeable , asked Claude after Lord Perceval , and alluded to the favourable impression he had left upon Madame Wharton , whom he had declared to be a superior woman . 
In reply to some inquiries after her , he said , `` She has been in a higher position in life , but , I fear , not in a happier ; and we have , from delicacy , always abstained from asking details of circumstances which she appears anxious to banish altogather from her mind . 
It was three o'clock before the count dropped him again at his hotel . 
He was still more favourably impressed with his new friend after this interview , and a sincere regard appeared to have sprung up between them ; a slight pomposity of manner , which would scarcely attract his attention if he had not heard it alluded to , occasionally jarred upon the pleasures of the ride ; but Claude amiably reasoned that every man had his foibles , and it was wise to shut one 's eyes to all but the good in those with whom we associate . 
At four o'clock he was at the door of Carolan 's splendid palace , the exterior of which he had already so much admired . 
He passed into the broad and lofty hall , with large vases and graceful statues rising around , and crowded with rows of handsome men , glittering in liveries of velvet and gold . 
Ascending the low flight of richly-carpeted steps , and passing through an antechamber and several other ample and magnificently furnished rooms , of which the air was full of incense , and still between files of domestics , stationed at short intervals from each other , he at length reached that one where such of the guests as were already arrived awaited the coming of the rest . 
Count Carolan received him at the door in the most gracious manner , and , after shaking him heartily by the hand , led him forward , and presented him to the countess : a very fine-looking woman of five-and-forty , whose unobtrusive dress and affable manners pleased him at once . 
She made the usual inquiries , and was evidently struck with his distinguished appearance . 
He had time , however , to extend to her but a few brief remarks , when Carolan , taking him again by the arm , brought him to Madame Wharton , whose face lighted with pleasure at the sight of him . 
`` Oh -- I see -- let me beg you -- my dear -- Mr. Wyndham . '' 
Claude turned and bowed , scarcely seeing to whom , for the girlish figure to whom these words were addressed was facing a lady who occupied a seat by her on a divan . 
She lifted her eyes with a slight salutation , and Claude was about to address her with some commonplace remark , when , with great surprise , he perceived the image of the portrait , perfect as if reflected in a mirror , except that the smile , as it came and passed away -- the eyes , as they were raised and lowered again modestly , beneath his unguarded look of astonishment , brought to it new beauties -- the charm of motion -- the loveliness which the rising colour and the low sweet voice alone can give . 
It was not till Count Carolan had twice repeated `` Mr. Wyndham , '' in the act of presenting him to Lady Beverly , and uttered the word `` Lord Elkington , '' that he recovered from his surprise to perceive the form of Lady Beverly drawn up coldly to his half unconscious greeting ; and to behold Elkington gazing at him through his glass , and returning his bow with a reserve which , little regarded at the time , was subsequently recalled to memory . 
Claude hastened to her side , and in a few moments they were seated next each other at table . 
The Countess Ida sat opposite Claude , a little on his left , and Madame Carolan on his right . 
The conversation , instead of being general , divided itself into little coteries , with as much freedom as if each were at a table of his own . 
Claude glanced at the young girl whose appearance had so much surprised him . 
`` Indeed , madame , '' said Claude , stammering in spite of himself . 
`` I acknowledge , oh Mentor , '' replied Claude , laughing , `` the justice of your reproof . 
`` With your supernatural penetration , '' said Claude , `` you would not believe me if I denied that she greatly surpasses my expectations . 
Claude hesitated . 
`` If I dared to form or express an opinion on such slight grounds , '' said Claude , `` and in so short a time . '' 
If Claude had not before perceived that he was considerably interested in the questions he was putting , the disappointment which came over him , as he received this annunciation , would have convinced him . 
He turned his eyes upon her again . 
Claude spoke again with Carolan , and with several others who recognised him , or to whom he was presented . 
He remarked particularly Count de Lavalle , Lord Beaufort , and a Mr. Thomson . 
Lavalle informed Claude that a fine opera was to be given at six , which would be attended by `` everybody . '' 
Claude was appealed to . 
A feeling , not unnatural in one of his character , but very ridiculous , threw over him a kind of reserve -- a hauteur -- when he found himself compelled to address her . 
As if she supposed this either his natural manner , or perhaps timidity , with a sweetness of nature which touched him with compunction even while he replied , she added a few words , which he answered with a distant politeness so different from his air while conversing with others , that the young girl observed it . 
A few moments afterward , while he was laughing and talking very gayly with a lovely woman , he saw Ida sitting alone ; then Elkington approached her , her face lighted up , and he felt that this handsome young lord possessed her affection . 
Fromthe Carolans , Claude went to the opera . 
The house was already full ; and he was surprised to see the large proportion of officers , whose glittering uniforms , combined with the elegant toilets of the ladies , and the ample box in front , furnished with chairs , and decorated with particular splendour for the members and guests of the royal family , added greatly to the effect of the scene . 
Claude had scarcely taken the seat which the box-keeper procured for him , when a familiar `` Bon soir , Wyndham , '' behind him , and a hand laid gently on his shoulder , attracted his attention to Lord Beaufort . 
said he . 
`` Certainly , '' said Claude ; `` I came for that purpose . '' 
`` You 'll be suffocated , '' said he . 
`` Why , I understood , '' said Claude , disappointed , `` that I should hear some excellent music . '' 
`` On the contrary , '' said Claude , `` I -- '' `` Ah ! 
said Claude , with surprise . 
Lavalle saluted Claude warmly . 
Thomson , who had taken a profound liking to Claude , made a profusion of bows , shaking him most affectionately by the hand ; begged him to take another place nearer the stage , which , he assured him , he would find more convenient ; asked if he had a bill , and , on finding that he had not , resigned his own , insisting upon his keeping it , as he perfectly well knew the piece , and had not the slightest occasion for it . 
He even offered to hold his hat , but this Claude objected to ; and , although his very amiable companion protested that he `` really liked to hold hats at an opera -- it was an occupation for him -- it gave him something to do , '' Claude begged to be allowed to retain his himself . 
At this moment , with the eyes of the whole house upon them , and almost in a position as public as that of the actors on the stage , the Digbys recognised Claude , and nothing would answer but a general and hearty shaking of hands , and divers exclamations of delight and surprise . 
As Claude and Mary stood together a moment , while the party were arranging themselves in their seats , various whispers flew through the house that they were a rich and noble English family ; that they were intimate relatives of `` Lord Clew ; '' that `` la jeune Anglaise '' was about to marry Monsieur de Wyndham , who had come with them to Berlin , that the ceremony might be performed and the honeymoon spent in this gay metropolis . 
Claude saw Ida look at Mary with evident admiration as the latter seated herself beside him , and lifted her eyes with her usual blush to his face . 
There was no reason why he should care what opinion the young countess might form of him or of his affairs , and yet he was a little embarrassed that she should see him so apparently familiar with a person who , however pretty , was , after all , a sad simpleton . 
Elkington also , at the same time , turned , and , as their eyes met , Claude bowed . 
Claude leaned forward , and said , `` Good evening , Lord Elkington . '' 
The young man resumed his original position with such perfect coolness , that even yet , for a moment , it was scarcely possible to believe his conduct intentional . 
`` My dear Mr. Wyndham , '' said Mrs. Digby , in a voice too loud not to excite attention , `` I can never -- do you know -- remember the name of the thing they look through -- the spyglass . 
`` Lorgnette , '' said Claude . 
said Madame Digby , with an affectation which Claude had never seen in her before . 
`` John , '' said Madame Digby , with a look of intense reproof ; `` pray , Mr. Wyndham , have you one ? '' 
`` No , '' said Claude , anxious to stop this interesting conversation by whispered and monosyllabic replies . 
`` No , '' said Claude . 
`` She bought it to-day -- and never had one before in her life , '' whispered Mr. Digby , with a wry face , aside to Claude . 
said Mrs. Digby to an old gentleman behind her , with a red face and white hair , and a riband in his button-hole . 
The old gentleman replied only by pursing up his mouth and brows into a piteous expression of futile politeness , and shrugging his shoulders to intimate that he could not understand her . 
Claude cast his eyes towards Mary . 
She was in the full crisis of a blush , and he smiled and leaned over her to speak . 
By one of those chances which lovers complain of , Ida turned again at this moment to speak to her father , who sat behind her , and she saw the head of Claude bent over towards Mary 's , and the heightened colour of the silly girl could not have been unnoticed . 
Their eyes met , and Claude , with a sense of relief , was satisfied that she was not only astonished , but displeased at the rudeness of her companion . 
His look of pleasure was so true and lively that it seemed to surprise her . 
Claude looked at Elkington . 
He could just perceive his features , and that there was a cloud upon his brow . 
A sense of pleasure kindled a moment in his heart , but died away as he remembered that he was indulging in a very unusual admiration for one who , in fact , was all but the wife of another . 
It was not in Claude 's nature to do an unamiable act , and he told her . 
The good dame was in such a flutter of enjoyment , and so unconscious of doing anything wrong , and she seemed to count with so much confidence on his services , that , however annoyed by her loud talk and fidgety manner , he did not wish to offend her . 
`` And as for the countess -- that big woman 's the countess , I suppose -- ai n't she , Mr. Wyndham ? 
Matters here rested for half an hour ; but Claude was next annoyed by Mrs. Digby 's requesting to be presented to the Countess Ida . 
Claude assured her that it was out of the question to present people at the opera . 
And , with the view of getting rid of her , he lifted the seat in front of him , which by some accident had remained unoccupied , and took the place . 
Although not in the same box , this brought him by the side of Ida . 
He then carelessly cast his eyes over the surface of heads in the pit . 
said Claude . 
Ida looked in the direction indicated , and perceived him at once . 
`` He is a poor artist , I believe , '' said Claude , `` and has painted a charming portrait of you ; but I have not heard his name . '' 
said Claude . 
Papa pities him ; he is very poor ; and he is , besides , so punctual , so attentive , and takes such pains to please -- '' As Claude looked on Ida , he conceived a suspicion of the secret of this poor fellow 's misery ; his gazing on the portrait -- his refusal to name her -- his sigh -- and his fixed attention to her during the present evening . 
While he pitied , he could not blame him . 
He felt that , were he himself called to her side an hour every day , he might be as audacious and as wild ; and once more a cold reserve came over his manner , and his abrupt transition seemed to surprise and embarrass her . 
Ida looked at Claude as if for some explanation , having already seen him on terms of such apparent intimacy . 
I should not have presumed to do so , only our veryintimate friend , Mr. Wyndham , has spoken so much of you , that I really feel as if we were old acquaintances . 
Claude heard Ida 's voice : `` No , I assure you , not in the least ! '' 
This brought him next to Claude , but he turned his shoulder towards him as he looked upon the scene , and did not alter his position during the evening . 
Whenthe opera was over , Claude was met in the lobby by Lavalle and Beaufort . 
The Carolan party came out , and the countess stopped to speak with him . 
Carolan then came out , and also said a few words to Claude . 
`` I am too happy to be at her orders , '' said Claude . 
Ida 's `` good-night '' to Claude in his own language sounded like music . 
`` Indeed , I shall take the liberty very soon , '' said he ; and with a look of admiration , and without looking at Claude , he gave his arm to his mother and passed on . 
The young men accompanied Claude a part of the way to his hotel , and made various comments , with much zest , upon persons , male and female , of the society whose acquaintance he had not yet formed . 
The invitation which Claude had received from Madame de Carolan was given and accepted in a minute , and he scarcely understood its import . 
Was he to escort that lady to Madame de B -- 's ? 
The necessary alterations in his toilet were soon made . 
In less than half an hour he was at Carolan 's . 
`` You come in time , '' said the count , `` for I must go ; '' and he left them almost immediately . 
Claude found himself alone with the person with whom , in spite of his general good sense and his sober principle of right , he was , each hour , each moment , becoming more fascinated . 
Claude was reserved and distant . 
He was determined to give no token of the power which this young girl already began to exercise over him . 
His courtesy , while it was all that a gentleman could bestow , made her think his character haughty and his heart cold . 
Once , as a lamp cast its light upon her face through the carriage window , Claude fixed his eyes upon it , himself in the shadow . 
`` She is certainly pretty , '' said Claude , smiling at her enthusiasm . 
Claude could not but compare the artlessness of this pretty child -- who had known nothing of life but its joys , and who was just emerging from the shelters of her home into a world which she expected to find for ever all sunshine and flowers -- with Beaufort , who piqued himself upon being blasé . 
They dosay that -- '' But here the fair narrator was obliged to resume her dancing ; and then the contre-dancewas finished ; and then a tall , blooming-faced young officer , with his clothes made very tight , so as to exhibit a slender and elegant form to the utmost advantage , came up in great haste , and claimed her hand for the next dance , and Claude did not get near her again during the evening , though he often saw her light and girlish figure whirling in the waltz , in all the unclouded enjoyment of innocence and youth . 
In the course of the evening , Claude passed Elkington several times without any sign of mutual recognition . 
She was always stately and cold , and appeared to overlook him , although more than once , when she did not think herself observed , she regarded him with a scrutiny for which he could not account . 
Claude found his ever faithful Carl in the hall with his cloak , and was about returning to his hotel , when Thomson insisted that he should join Lavalle , Beaufort , and two or three others at his rooms for a rubber of whist . 
They chatted , smoked , supped , and played , and it was near three when Claude found himself in the street alone on his return home . 
Having supped heartily , and , with several new and interesting topics of reflection , being too fully awake to think of sleep , he determined to prolong his stroll around the town . 
Here and there the night-watch went slowly by , with his long , shrill whistle , as if ingeniously contrived to disturb the sick , to awaken the sleeping , and to do service to none except thieves and robbers , who , thus warned , get to their hiding-places till he is out of the way . 
Before the palaces of princes and military officers of high standing , and the public edifices , the guards paced slowly to and fro , in their simple gray cloaks and leathern caps , their muskets glittering in the moonbeams ; and once during his ramble he was crossed by a company of fifteen or twenty soldiers , on their rounds to relieve guard , their measured tramp echoing on the pavement , and reminding him that he was in the metropolis of one of the greatest military governments of Europe . 
Claude went on , now indulging in his own reveries , now watching the broad , level streets , so beautiful in the moonlight , and the sculptured palaces , with their shadowy courts and half-unearthly company of statues ; now listening to the whistle of the watch , as it retreated and died away in the distance . 
At length he found himself before the Brandenburg gate , and paused to admire the tall columns , the stately outline , and the bronze group upon the top . 
But this was Claude 's character ; imbued with thought , his feelings , or at least his actions , were subservient to his reason . 
His lonely life had rendered contemplation almost too habitual to him . 
He had dwelt too long and too much on the valuelessness of the earthly objects so ardently sought by his fellow-creatures . 
To Claude most of the objects of life were phantoms -- most of its joys illusions . 
He wanted the development of his affections to balance and perfect his character , and to counteract the results of a too exclusive development of his intellectual faculties . 
He had lived in a world of thought . 
He wanted to descend into the warmer one of feeling . 
His mind had occupied itself with subjects vast , high , and eternal . 
He had not studied society and common life with sufficient attention . 
The uncompromising energy of Claude 's character , and the independence of an original thinker , made the path of youth one of danger , and caused him , in many things , to stand aloof from other men . 
By his costume Claude recognised one of those Polish Jews who are not unfrequently seen in the streets of Berlin . 
demanded Claude , in German . 
said Claude , more and more surprised . 
Claude was at a loss to conjecture whether this incident was accidental , or whether it had any serious meaning . 
At the appointed hour Claude entered the lofty doors of the palace , amid armed horsemen stationed at short intervals in the street , crowds of splendidly-dressed ladies , and gentlemen in the richest uniforms covered with orders -- no one appearing in the royal presence in a citizen 's dress . 
All the faces which Claude had been accustomed to meet at the nightly soiréesof the past several weeks , he found reassembled in these golden halls . 
The pomp and display everywhere around him ; the throngs of domestics , all in rich , and some in very fanciful liveries ; the large scale on which everything seemed built ; the numerous suites of broad and lofty rooms , adorned with every variety of splendour , and filled with exquisite paintings and statues ; the floors inlaid in the most exquisite manner ; the glittering crowds ; the military uniform of the officers , with their gay plumes and clanking swords , all formed a coup d'œilwhich threw even the elegant magnificence of Carolan far into the shade . 
As Claude entered , a din of gay voices was audible . 
`` How are you , Wyndham ? '' 
`` Well , I think them , on the contrary , '' said Claude , `` very gay and pretty . '' 
`` It is a very unfashionable fault , '' said Claude . 
`` My dear Mr. Wyndham ! '' 
Claude thanked him . 
Claude again thanked his officious friend , and with some difficulty disentangled himself from his polite offers . 
`` He is very obliging , certainly , '' said Claude . 
said Claude . 
`` I do not think myself in serious danger , '' said Claude , though this chance remark of Lavalle 's made him tingle to his finger ends . 
said Claude . 
said Claude . 
`` I will tell him what you have heard , '' said Claude . 
`` No , '' said Claude , `` I will not do it secretly . 
`` I regard a duel as an act of too great folly and crime ever to be engaged in one , '' said Claude . 
`` Yet declining a message may ruin a man for ever with the world , and , since we live in it -- '' `` When duty points a path , '' said Claude , `` we have only to obey . 
said Lavalle ; `` the finger of scorn -- the whisper -- the taunt -- '' `` Clouds , '' said Claude , `` which it is the business of an honest and brave man to walk through undismayed , and which will melt before his steady onward path , as vapours before the sun . 
said Thomson ; `` Wyndham , will you play ? 
As Lavalle left him , Claude strolled around the rooms as well as he could for the crowd . 
He met the Carolans . 
Ida was not with them , but in a few moments he saw her in another room . 
Claude did not approach . 
He stood aloof , with a feeling of tenderness and melancholy which he had never experienced before . 
He regarded her at a distance , unseen himself . 
thought he , as he stood motionless and gloomy , half withdrawn behind the pedestal of a golden vase ; his gaze fixed upon her as on something sweet and lovely , lent a brief moment to his sight to be snatched from it for ever . 
he thought , `` something has disturbed her . 
He knew not that the shadow over this young girl had been cast there unconsciously by himself . 
It was the very next day that she met Claude at her father 's table . 
There was something in his appearance which struck her attention . 
The surprise and lively pleasure visible in his countenance on their meeting , the cause of which was unknown to her , made him a subject of reflection . 
His conduct to her , his coolness , subsiding into a tone of gentle courtesy , so different from the ordinary manner of the fashionable young men about her , fastened her thoughts still more upon him . 
Placing no value on rank and wealth , since she had never known what it was to be without them , the inequality in the situation of Claude and herself did not enter her thoughts ; nor , indeed , had she any more definite ideas concerning him , than that vague sentiment of admiration and interest which fills a young girl 's heart on the threshold of womanhood , in the society of the man to whom she is about to surrender her affections . 
Claude presented to her in the real world a hero which she had believed existed only in imagination . 
It was in this state of mind that Claude met Ida at the fêteof Prince R. , and indulged himself with a long look at her beautiful face . 
Elkington , who generally was too nearsighted to see Claude when at his side , now bent a keen glance on him . 
As he moved his eyes in another quarter , he perceived Lady Beverly peering at him through her glass . 
There was something of confusion in the manner in which he turned away , and , as if he were the object of some peculiar and mysterious scrutiny , he encountered the fixed gaze of Madame Wharton . 
The monarch advanced into the midst of the rooms , and Claude was presented by Lavalle to Prince -- , the distinguished nobleman whose duty it was to name to royalty those who aspired to the honour of an interview . 
Having happily gone through these preliminaries , he was struck with the appearance of the Digbys . 
Here and there Claude heard a nearly suppressed `` Ah diable , quel drole de figure ! '' 
The next object which attracted Claude 's attention was Digby , the perspiration standing on his forehead , his face always rather rubicund from the vivifying effect of good English beef and beer , now heated beyond itself by the anxieties and horrors which , poor fellow , he had undergone in his attempts to be presented . 
At length he came to the conclusion that he had torn his clothes , and , horrified at the idea , he proceeded to examine his elegant court suit , when his perplexity was terminated by Claude , who , perceiving his dilemma and the cause of it , approached him from behind and whispered , `` Get up . 
He started up , and was darting off to hide his humiliation in some distant corner , but Claude with a strong hand very quietly withheld him . 
And , with a spring , he would have ran full tilt against another member of the royal family , had not Claude again checked his course . 
He remained , therefore , motionless , and resumed the task of wiping his forehead . 
`` Well , I say -- Wyndham ! '' 
he muttered , `` if thisis Mrs. Digby 's ho-tong -- ! '' 
The circle dispersed and Claude released his prisoner . 
It was not long before he observed him planted in a corner , with his back held resolutely against the wall , standing as straight as a grenadier under review , occasionally making a wry face at the pressure of his new boots , and now and then applying his handkerchief to his temples . 
`` Ah , thank God -- there 's Wyndham , '' said Digby , taking a long breath , like a soldier who , set on by numbers , at length sees a friend on whose prowess and fidelity he can depend . 
He advanced to Claude , but he also , at first , seemed affected with the general defect of vision which prevented everybody else from seeing Digby 's flaming physiognomy , although dripping under their noses . 
Claude longed to take the seat by Ida . 
It was , perhaps , the last hour of free intercourse with her which he should ever have the opportunity to enjoy . 
But had he a right , with such deep and now uncontrollable feelings , to seek the society of a young girl who , he already saw , was half aware of his madness , and was touched with it ? 
The homely and awkward appearance , too , of the Digbys -- for even Mary 's expressionless face now looked vulgar contrasted with that of Ida. ; the observation that all shrunk from them because they had rendered themselves ridiculous , and their obvious helplessness and dependance upon him , decided his generous nature to render them the assistance refused by everybody else . 
It was with an astonishment , of which the tokens were not wholly concealed from the object of it , that the surrounding circle saw Claude , who was among the most courted young men in the society , offer himself as the guide of the two ladies who were the subjects of such general derision , and , with an air of kindness and respect , lead them from the room . 
The kindness of Claude continued with the sumptuous dinner , and , aided by the succession of luxurious dishes and several glasses of Champagne , partly restored the Digbys to spirits . 
In the course of the afternoon , Claude led Ida through a contre-danse , for which he had already engaged her . 
The last look she had exchanged with him had been one of confidence , of tender reproach , almost of love . 
To his astonishment , he now found her cold and distant . 
He could not meet her eye , and there was a striking change in her whole manner . 
The lifeless hand , the fingers given only at the last instant , when the exigences of the moment demand , and withdrawn the instant they are over ; the eyes , the face turned away ; all this Claude perceived in his companion with pain and surprise . 
He was chilled . 
He was the more depressed as he felt that his short acquaintance with Ida was nearly at an end ; that honour as well as prudence demanded him to fly , and he had no excuse for asking any explanation before he left for ever the side of one who was dearer to him than all things else but duty . 
Ida turned away coldly and silently , without even looking on his face . 
He stood motionless , and forgot , and , indeed , had no opportunity to offer , those little marks of courtesy usual on such an occasion . 
The iciness of her manner communicated itself to his heart . 
Digby had sought shelter at the card-table , where Claude , as he passed , saw his face redder even than it had been before , with the troubles of that elegant game , which , to a bad player , however , presents a recreation not greatly different from being broken on the wheel . 
Claude stopped a moment to observe the poor fellow . 
Misery makes us superpathetic , and he could not help pitying him . 
He was playing with Thomson against two Prussian generals who did not understand English . 
Claude left these splendid halls with a heart as heavy as poor Digby 's . 
`` I have n't a friend in this infernal country , except , indeed , Mr. Wyndham . '' 
send him to me . 
Bitterly deploring his wife 's folly in dragging him into circles of society infested with such vices and by such customs , with a trembling hand and a sinking heart he rang for the servant , ordered Mr. Wyndham to be sent for immediately , and requested his daughter to be called into `` the study '' alone . 
Peter came to his call , and announced Mr. Wyndham , who entered immediately . 
When she was gone , Digby locked and double locked the door ; returned , fumbled a moment in his pockets , turned pale as death , and , throwing down Elkington 's note upon the table , said , `` Read that letter , Mr. Wyndham . '' 
Claude opened and quietly perused it . 
When he had finished , Claude said , `` Well , and what of it ? '' 
`` Mr. Wyndham -- sir -- do you -- a -- a -- inquire what of it -- when I 'm a -- a -- going to -- to -- to -- be shot , in about twelve hours ' time , through the head -- and -- a -- a -- with -- a -- a -- like a wild duck -- do you sit there and ask what of it ? 
said Claude , calmly . 
`` No there would n't , '' said Claude , with the utmost composure , `` because Iwould not meet any man in a duel . 
`` But I can tell you the result , '' said Claude , quietly . 
I will be posted everywhere -- I shall -- be disgraced and hissed at -- as a -- a -- a -- coward -- and , moreover , if he attacks me in the street -- but I will carry loaded pistols with me -- and -- '' The perspiration stood in large drops upon his forehead as these alternatives succeeded each other in his mind . 
`` Mr. Digby , '' said Claude , `` take my advice . 
Claude sat down and wrote : `` This afternoon , when I found you soliciting from my daughter promises of attachment incompatible with your relations with the Countess Ida Carolan , I used language which , if you did not deserve , the provocation must sufficiently excuse , without other apology from me . 
Elkington was in every way Claude 's antithesis , and , in painting a character so abandoned , we should fear the charge of exaggeration , did not history and the less extended annals of private life furnish too many examples . 
Claude Wyndham was the bearer of it , and he hated him with all his heart ; and , from some yet unexplained cause , his mother , since their first meeting , had never ceased to speak of him with contempt and hatred , and to call her son 's attention to everything which could cause him to participate in her sentiments ; of this the chief cause was his standing with the Carolans , and his visible progress in the good opinion of Ida . 
Several circumstances , which had made Elkington suspect Claude had placed Digby on his guard touching his visits to Mary , would , without other grounds , have awakened the resentment of a heart familiar with plans of death . 
He had also reason to know that the note from Digby , declining his challenge , was written by Claude . 
From that moment he resolved to fix the quarrel upon Claude , and to pursue it to an extremity . 
No principle or religion checked his bad passions . 
He wanted a rival out of the way . 
He desired the destruction of a man , whose unbending rectitude rebuked his profligacy by its contrast , and whose fearless chivalry of character did not hesitate to thwart his unholy plans . 
Claude knew Elkington was base and malignant . 
He saw he hated him , and in his own breast a secret and strange dislike had risen with a strength which he could not wholly repress . 
It had been his wish to avoid any association with him . 
He regarded him as a dark and dangerous man , ready for any deed of open violence or secret fraud . 
Claude saw Digby the next morning . 
He regarded Claude as his saviour , and swore that , as long as he lived , he should command him to any extent , and that his purse and his life were , and ever should be , at his disposal . 
Claude was peculiarly alive to such impression ; and , as he passed out of the Brandenburg gate into the universal and favourite promenade of the Park , he perceived tokens of the spring visible everywhere around him . 
This season had stolen upon him unawares . 
He had been so occupied in the world of fashion with operas , balls , soirées , and breakfasts ; with glittering crowds , the same everrecurring faces , and all the pomp , glare , and circumstance of magnificent entertainments , that the soft and exquisite forms of half-forgotten nature struck his eye and touched his soul with a sense of happiness . 
As the various incidents of the now vanished winter rose to his memory -- the constant succession of brilliant fêtes -- the numerous nights which had found him wandering amid the half-fairy splendour of royal saloons , till the breaking day at length sent him to his bed -- the new acquaintances he had made -- the dark face , full of meaning , of Lady Beverly -- the rudeness of Elkington -- the bland courtesy of Carolan -- the dignified friendship of Madame Wharton -- and last , not least , the enchantment which he had found in the society of Ida , and which had daily grown more delicious and more dangerous -- all seemed a fantastic dream amid the surrounding silence and solitude . 
thought Claude , as he wandered into the thickest and most solitary part of the wood . 
In the ardour of his reveries , he had so far forgotten himself as to utter this rhapsody aloud . 
It was not without a guilty start that he heard a step at his side , and , lifting his eyes , beheld Madame Wharton . 
He saw from her face that she had not only overheard his rhapsody , but that she understood the full extent of its meaning . 
Her countenance was grave and severe . 
Her air quiet and dignified , but full of thought and melancholy . 
There was something affectionate , but , at the same time , compassionate and even solemn in her manner . 
The same recollection appeared to occur to Madame Wharton , for she exclaimed , `` Oh youth ! 
`` Madame , '' said Claude , `` I scarcely know whether you are in jest or in earnest . '' 
said Madame Wharton , almost sternly ; and then , pausing and turning pale , she fixed her eyes upon his face with a searchingness of gaze which surprised and embarrassed him . 
she continued , in a tone almost of soliloquy . 
`` What , '' said Claude , `` since you have overheard me , is it so strange that -- '' He stopped , for he perceived she was not listening to him . 
`` Mr. Wyndham , '' resumed she , presently , in a more familiar tone , `` dare I hope I have read your character aright ? 
Among men I have rarely seen one who could comprehend or fittingly reply to an appeal to the morality , the religion of a rational being , when it was opposed by his own interest or passion . '' 
`` Your opinion of human nature is a gloomy one , '' said Claude , relieved to find that the companion who had acquired such influence over him did not immediately enter upon the subject which most occupied his mind . 
`` And yet I fear , '' resumed she , `` that it is too just . 
I almost shrink from searching into the heart of Mr. Claude Wyndham , to find whether the fair promise and the goodly outside are more than a mask and an illusion . '' 
Claude coloured beneath the calm eyes of his almost austere inquisitor . 
`` Mr. Wyndham will do me the justice to believe me above idle curiosity or a vulgar desire to listen ; but , straying through the wood for a walk , I saw you at a distance , and I have for some time followed and watched you unobserved . '' 
From my quiet seat , Mr. Wyndham , I have followed your footsteps many and many an hour . 
Calm wisdom , too , my young friend , looks coldly on , and detects the serpent coiled amid the flowers -- '' `` I hope -- I fear -- that is , I feel assured , madame -- '' `` Hear me to the end , Mr. Wyndham . 
`` Madame , '' said Claude , `` by what right , with what object ? '' 
`` Be assured , '' she continued , `` that only the truest friendship could make me think of becoming the guide or preceptor of any gentleman , however young or generous . '' 
`` I will interrupt you no more , '' said Claude , astonished to find the reverence with which he listened to such curious avowals from one almost a stranger to him . 
`` I will , '' said Claude , yielding to this extraordinary proposal , and even with that feeling of relief with which a fainting traveller leans on the first passing stranger who offers to assist him . 
`` I -- I do , '' said Claude , at length . 
`` Notwithstanding your resolutions to the contrary -- notwithstanding my warnings -- notwithstanding that you knew her to be the affianced bride of another -- notwithstanding the difference of rank between yourself and her -- notwithstanding -- '' `` Notwithstanding all , '' said Claude ; `` since you seek my confidence -- since I feel assured you are incapable of abusing it , I repeat , then , notwithstanding all , I love her . 
Claude fixed his eyes on his inquisitor , as if he feared some demand which would try his resolution severely . 
`` Madame , '' he answered , `` I can not doubt that my admiration has been revealed in the long intercourse which I have had with this young girl . 
said Claude , on whom this abrupt assertion inflicted a pang as painful as it was unexpected . 
`` I can , '' replied she , coldly . 
`` But -- it -- is possible , '' said Claude , `` that she may have never revealed -- never confided even to you -- even to herself -- '' `` Secrets neither revealed to me nor confided to herself , '' said Madame Wharton , `` can scarcely deserve to become the foundation for such a fabric of hope and bliss as , I fear , you have reared upon them . 
Claude coloured to the temples . 
`` Madame , '' he said , `` I solemnly assure you there is not the shadow of truth in this , and you will eternally oblige me by -- '' `` Undeceiving her -- '' `` Instantly . '' 
`` For -- for -- in order that -- '' he stopped . 
`` Mr. Wyndham , '' said Madame Wharton , `` I take you to be one of the few who will never , from selfish considerations , deviate from the path of right . 
`` Oh , madame , a thousand , thousand thanks , '' said Claude . 
`` I implore you , madame , '' said Claude , `` to speak to me freely . '' 
The heart of Madame Wharton almost failed as she felt herself inflicting the greatest pang of which his nature was susceptible ; but , like a skilful surgeon , who knows that firmness is the truest kindness , she went on . 
`` I thought so , '' said Claude . 
`` Oh , madame , '' said Claude , `` if I may -- if I dare draw from your words the inference which they seem to admit , I should be the happiest of men . 
cried Claude . 
`` I understand you , '' said Claude . 
`` Perhaps , madame , your imagination is too lively in drawing sketches of the future , '' said Claude , haughtily . 
Madame Wharton regarded him as he lifted his tall form with an air of cold anger , and she grew as pale as he . 
Several times , indeed , in the course of this conversation , she interrupted herself to fix her eyes upon his face , with an interest which seemed independent of the subject on which she spoke . 
`` Well , then , what the world hassaid , '' resumed she . 
Claude stood silent and haughty , scarcely knowing whether to conceive his companion an enemy or a friend . 
`` Ah , madame , '' said Claude , `` do you advise that I refer them to the ordinary remedy in use among gentlemen , and which would procure me a vengeance which I do not desire , or render me a victim without clearing my name ? '' 
`` Tell me , '' said Claude , after a pause , `` what reports ? 
Yet , notwithstanding his efforts to remain composed , he felt the blood flowing more impetuously through his veins , and his cheek burn with shame and indignation . 
`` Ah , madame , '' said Claude , `` you have done me , indeed , injustice if you supposed me likely to be moved by a piece of scandal so idle and so easily exposed . '' 
`` He was almost my only friend , '' said Claude , his eyes filling with tears . 
The obvious sincerity of his astonishment and anguish touched and convinced Madame Wharton . 
Her own eyes also glittered through a hidden moisture as she said , `` No , Mr. Wyndham ; if you wish , if you will accept it , you may depend upon the friendship of another . 
`` I tremble at your words , '' said Claude , greatly moved ; `` a tumult of joy -- hope -- fear -- despair -- takes from me the power to think of anything but the half confession which you have twice made this morning . 
`` I will do anything -- I will follow any path -- make any sacrifice , '' said Claude , `` which may be necessary for the happiness of Ida ; but if she loves me -- '' `` She does notlove you , '' said Madame Wharton , coldly , `` but she thinks of you too much . 
`` It is the wildest vision of joy , '' said Claude , `` that ever blessed the eyes of a mortal . '' 
`` I repeat it , '' said Claude . 
Claude 's colour left his cheek . 
His ardent triumph had already subsided , and he almost held his breath as she continued , `` In the first place , you will never act on the strength of the confession I have made you ? '' 
Fly you may , certainly , at the proper moment ; but , beforeyou fly -- '' She hesitated , and Claude also awaited , with a feeling of dread , the conclusion of her harangue . 
said Claude . 
Perhaps , if her esteem , her respect for you were diminished -- perhaps , if -- if -- '' `` She thought me a scoundrel , '' said Claude , bitterly . 
demanded Claude . 
said Claude . 
I speak , Mr. Wyndham , as a mother to her son . 
`` They are poor substitutes , '' said Claude , bitterly . 
`` Spare me , madame , '' said Claude , covering his eyes with his hand . 
`` If I throw myself at Carolan 's feet -- '' said Claude , agitated ; for these half admissions of Madame Wharton deprived him , in some degree , of his usual self-possession and good sense . 
Upon that child depends the continuation of one of the noblest families of Europe ; and you , Mr. Wyndham -- I ask it not in a spirit of unkindness -- what have youto offer ? '' 
`` I oppose no more , '' said Claude . 
said Claude . 
She extended her hand . 
He could not account for the influence she exercised over him . 
He sunk beneath her frown , and rejoiced in her smile , as if she had , indeed , been the Goddess of Wisdom in mortal form , descended from heaven to point out to his eyes , blinded with passion , the path of duty . 
Her tones swayed his mind and touched his heart with a persuasive power ; and in her majestic countenance he traced lineaments which , in a singular degree , riveted his attention , and awakened his reverence and love . 
Claude could scarcely recognise in her the unobtrusive lady whom he first met in the diligence . 
The more he saw her , the more he admired and wondered , the nobler became her gait , the more impressive and intellectual her countenance . 
They were on the opposite side ; and the honest fellow , discovering Claude , immediately started to join him . 
He took the shortest way , which was through the hollow square . 
He had not advanced many steps when two or three sub-officers shouted to him ; then two or three more . 
Not understanding the language , and not supposing their shouts directed to him , the honest fellow walked on , leisurely twirling his glove , and his face lighted with pleasure at the sight of his friend . 
At length -- upon shouting out , at the top of his voice , in horrible German , that he did not speak that language , and making his persecutors comprehend that the reason why he had not turned back when they called him , was , that he did not understand what they said , or knew that they were speaking to him -- one gave him a shove , and another honoured him with what was very nearly a kick , and he was hauled and thrust back into the nearest point of the crowd before Claude could get to his aid . 
`` Did you ever -- a -- a -- Mr. -- a -- a -- Wyndham -- see anything -- so -- so -- a -- a -- infamous as the proceedings of those gentlemen ? 
It was with difficulty that Claude could refrain from laughing at the intense indignation of his friend ; but he endeavoured to sooth him by telling him that , after he had got through the French , he could learn the German in a short time . 
`` Well , Mr. Wyndham , '' said Mrs. Digby , `` did you ever see such an awful fool as John is ? 
how pale you are , Mr. Wyndham ! '' 
Mary , take Mr. Wyndham 's arm . 
said Claude . 
Her eyes fell on Claude , and her sunshiny smile went to his heart . 
It had been his first impulse to step back , so as not to be seen with Miss Digby , after the report which he had just heard was current upon the subject ; but he remembered himself in time to prevent such a step , which , trifling as it was , would not have been in strict accordance with his promise . 
She saw him , therefore . 
He bowed carelessly . 
It seemed as if Mary hung more closely on his arm as she passed . 
He saw that Ida had perceived her , and that it would confirm her belief . 
asked Claude , by way of saying something . 
`` Are you to be there , Mr. Wyndham ? '' 
said Claude . 
`` Why , mamma , '' said Mary , as if suddenly struck with a good idea , `` why ca n't Mr. Wyndham take us ? 
He just said he was going , and we can call for him in our carriage ! '' 
Pray do us the kindness , Mr. Wyndham . '' 
`` If you please , madam , '' said Claude ; and he reflected upon the pleasure his appearance with them would give Madame Wharton ; how it would gratify Elkington and Lady Beverly ; how it would confirm the opinion and alienate the feelings of Ida . 
Claude now looked up from a brown study , and observed Monsieur Lippe , to whom he addressed some commonplace observation . 
Indeed , now that his attention was directed towards him , Claude observed that he was certainly improved in appearance . 
He was very showily dressed , in the height of the fashion ; smelled strongly of eau de Cologne , and had more the air of a dandy than a person of his unobtrusive profession . 
Thus apparelled , he had assumed the character of a favourite steward or man of charge , taking this interesting family under his guidance as we see a ciceronetake a party of bewildered and obedient travellers . 
Sometimes he made them stop to point out the residence of a great man ; sometimes to call their attention to a view through the long arcades of trees , which here and there , like the aisles of a Gothic church , extend for a mile or two beneath the arched branches , till the straight line fades to a point in the perspective . 
In the evening , as had been arranged , the Digbys called for Claude , and he accompanied them to one of those entertainments . 
Often before had he entered this spacious palace , and ascended to those very rooms with a heart beating with hope and love . 
How bitterly did he now lament his folly in having indulged such dreams and still more in having betrayed them to the confiding girl whom he was now to meet with assumed coldness ! 
How strange was his position . 
In order to be worthy of her , he was to throw her away . 
His clear reason whispered that the surest way to leave her to happiness was to inflict upon her what he knew would be a severe present misery . 
Thegrowing passion between Claude and Ida had not been unobserved . 
Lovers are like the ostrich , who , when his head is under the bush , thinks himself unseen . 
The report that Mr. Wyndham was engaged to Mary Digby had at first arisen naturally from the circumstances ; had been strengthened by Elkington and his mother , at first , from a mere malicious desire to injure him in the fashionable world , where the strange intrusion of Mr. and Mrs. Digby had been the occasion of much merriment . 
She was so weakly bound up in her son as to be almost blind to his moral worthlessness ; and she regarded with disgust the elegance of Claude 's person , and the superior intelligence and grace of his mind and manners ; and she could not but see that there was `` a daily beauty '' in his life and character , in the presence of which Elkington appeared to the greatest disadvantage . 
Other thoughts , of a much deeper and darker nature , there were , half-floating in her mind , which deepened her dislike of Claude into serious apprehension and hatred . 
As for Elkington , although he commenced by slighting and despising Claude as a man of no fortune , rank , or fashionable pretension -- as a mere stranger , whose sphere of life was sufficiently indicated by his intimacy with the Digbys , he found , upon a nearer contact , something about his rival which , while it rendered him less insignificant , also rendered him more hateful in his eyes . 
The unconscious delicacy and warmth of his manner towards Ida , he perceived , was met on her part by a congeniality which he himself had never excited in this young person ; and as the match was , he well knew , one of mere convenience , he at first feared , and then felt , that the love which he had failed to inspire was bestowed , although unacknowledged , and perhaps unknown by either party , upon Claude . 
The quiet contempt with which his rudeness had been returned by the latter , the sentiment of inferiority which he could not help being conscious of in his presence , and the arts of his mother , who , for reasons of her own , desired to widen the breach between them , even to any extremity , all nourished in his bosom a hatred which grew with every day , and was by no means abated by his rival 's success in society , where , from his own merit and obvious superiority , he was received with the liveliest welcome . 
Both he and his mother had made secret attempts to find out something definite respecting his family and history which might be used to his disadvantage , and had thus far been partially successful . 
By certain means they had discovered the mystery which involved his birth . 
This was openly hinted in every company , in a way calculated to cast suspicion on him . 
He had dropped Digby in the affair , and was determined to provoke Claude to a challenge by the most open and insulting statements respecting him . 
Several persons had mentioned them to Claude , but he persisted in the determination not to call his slanderer to account . 
The very height at which Claude had stood in society -- the admiration with which he had been received -- a certain air of nobleness and independence which marked his manner and conversation , and the favour of the Carolans , were all against him . 
But poor Claude -- who had lived , since his arrival in Berlin , in a kind of enchantment , spellbound by the side of Ida , welcomed in circles which may become dangerously attractive to persons of his lively temperament , and lingering amid scenes of wealth , rank , and love , so magnificent and fair , that it seemed as if he stood by the open gate of Paradise , where a word from the lips of Ida might establish him for ever -- poor Claude had not such obvious evidences of his standing and character as to put a stop to the allegations against him . 
After the first impression , caused by lies , as to his powers as a man of superior mind and education , had subsided , people began to wonder that they did not find out who and what he was . 
Since Carolan had been made to comprehend that there was danger in his society to Ida , he had , without inquiry or discrimination , resolved at once to consider him as an enemy , and , as such , to speak of and treat him . 
This had a most injurious effect upon him , as the withdrawal from him of the first patron who had introduced him into society could not but be received as a confirmation of the unfavourable rumours current respecting him . 
In the game of whist there occur periods when one finds every chance obstinately against him . 
It seemed now thus with Claude ; he was placed in a most painful position . 
Principlecalled upon him to make sacrifices almost beyond his strength . 
First , to turn from the person he loved , and even to behold her about to despise him , without making an effort against it ; and then to repel a direct charge against his character only with the mild weapons of explanation and forbearance . 
How little did they know him who suspected him of cowardice ! 
It would have been a relief to call into the field the insolent calumniator who had so often insulted him by his manner , and was now endeavouring to complete his destruction . 
In his present state of mind , death would not have been unwelcome ; but he felt that the ball which laid low the slanderer of his honour would not clear his name ; nor did he , the moment he reflected , really wish to take the blood even of Elkington . 
She was an interesting and delightful companion among her friends -- Claude himself had , till now , been her peculiar favourite -- but her eye , as she coldly returned his greeting without encountering his , was cast down , and immediately lifted to a person behind him , with whom she entered into a sudden conversation . 
Although this was apparently accidental , Claude felt it was a manner of avoiding him . 
Monsieur de B -- bowed slightly to each of the three , and extended his hand to a gentleman who passed before Claude . 
He felt the blood mounting to his temple . 
It was his first impulse to turn on his heel , and never again to enter this or any other Berlin mansion ; but he checked these hasty emotions with a calmer pride , and the independence belonging to his character . 
He reflected that he did not know how far this slander was credited -- that perhaps the manner of Monsieur de B -- and his lady might have been accidental -- that flight would countenance the falsehoods respecting him -- that he had resolved not to seek , but also not to avoid Elkington -- that he had a duty to perform towards Ida -- and -- for he was in the habit of thinking of others as well as himself -- he had brought Mrs. Digby and Mary , and they would not wish to be abandoned . 
His figure was drawn up with an ostentatious hauteur on seeing Claude , which left no doubt of his changed sentiments . 
His manner was stiff and pompous , his nose elevated in the air , and his features expressive of self-satisfaction , superciliousness , and contempt . 
The instant Claude 's eye fell on him , he perceived that his polite and agreeable friend was no more ; but that the folly of his character , now brought out by circumstances , had left in his place a very different person . 
He scarcely knew whether to address him or not ; but , as he had yet received no cause to withhold from him the ordinary courtesies of society , he bowed as usual . 
The count looked him full in the face without offering the least sign of recognition . 
A slight laugh at his shoulder caused Claude to turn ; he found that it proceeded from Elkington . 
At his side was the Countess Carolan . 
Calmly , but proudly , Claude bowed to her . 
It seemed that he required from each one the evidence that they could so wantonly insult him before he could believe it . 
His dignity and manly composure carried a kind of conviction to the heart of the Countess Carolan . 
She believed in that instant that he was calumniated , and she bowed to him with her usual kindness , and held out her hand . 
Gratitude was one of the strongest sentiments of Claude 's soul , and it was expressed in his countenance , as he took her hand and returned her salutation . 
The change in his expression , from haughty scorn to sincere pleasure , was not lost upon her , and a perceptible moisture in her eye betrayed the feeling with which she sympathized with him in this , the most trying moment of his life . 
She was very pale , and turned away her face as she perceived that his eyes were directed towards her ; but , as if unable to complete the effort , she looked back once again , and that look glanced to his heart , and thrilled him with an unutterable delight , which was instantly quenched in anguish as he remembered what he had undertaken to do . 
Claude , ill read in human nature , held out his hand to him as one of whose support in the hour of need he was secure ; but , to his surprise and embarrassment , the young man passed his extended hand unnoticed , and , seizing that of Elkington , shook it heartily , with many expressions of pleasure at seeing him . 
thought Claude to himself , as he quietly regarded the young sycophant , and remembered the importunity with which he had besieged him in a happier hour , and particularly the expressions of contempt and disgust which he had made use of to him concerning this very Elkington , whom he was now serving with the assiduity of a valet . 
It was plain that a total change had taken place in the general opinion respecting the once admired Mr. Wyndham . 
Nearly all chilled him by the coldness of their manner . 
Some , although gazing through their glasses , found him as invisible as they had found Digby . 
Others there were who -- probably absorbed in more important subjects , mere spectators of these scenes , where they came to divert themselves from abstruse labours , and to make their observations upon the world -- met him exactly as usual ; one gentleman , a tall , noble-looking officer , came up to him , and , giving his hand , said , `` Mr. Wyndham , without ceremony , I make myself acquainted with you . 
`` I assure you , Monsieur le General , '' said Claude , `` your words give strength to a resolution which almost fails ; but the approbation of onelike you would more than sustain me against the insults of a thousand fools . 
After some moments ' conversation , during which Claude could not help remarking the frank dignity of General St. Hillaire 's address to the prince , and the easy and friendly familiarity with which he was received by that distinguished person , the general once more returned , and , taking Claude by the arm , led him forward , and the chambellan presented him . 
Although astonished at this unexpected proceeding , Claude was pleased with an opportunity of receiving such a compliment after the cold stiffness perceptible in the manner of every one else . 
His royal highness spoke of various subjects . 
His remarks were lively and affable , and Claude replied to them with a frankness which seemed to give pleasure . 
The interview was prolonged beyond the usual time generally allotted to similar conversations ; and , when the prince bowed at the conclusion , and General St. Hillaire led him away , Claude saw a new change in the demeanour of the company . 
a proposition innocent in itself , and so extremely true that Claude did not offer any denial . 
Theprince had left the room , and Claude was preparing to do the same with General St. Hillaire , whose determination to support him appeared evident to everybody . 
They had reached a small cabinet in which were only one or two persons , when he was not a little surprised by a bland `` good-evening , Mr. Wyndham , '' from the lips of Lady Beverly . 
This was almost the first time that lady had ever deigned to extend towards him any civility . 
Both he and the general stopped . 
He replied coolly , but politely . 
`` I have not made any definite decision , madam , '' said Claude . 
Surprised at the friendly familiarity with which she spoke , and wondering what it could mean , he replied that `` he had lived much abroad . '' 
He reddened perceptibly at the pertinacity of these inquiries upon a subject on which he felt an extreme sensibility , and which he had confided to no human being in Berlin . 
Her questions , from which he could not retreat , appeared to possess the formality and imperativeness of a cross-examination before a legal tribunal , and several by-standers had drawn nearer and fixed their attention upon him . 
`` Were you not last from London , Mr. Wyndham ? '' 
`` It is probable -- that is -- I am quite unable to say , '' said Claude , with an embarrassment so obvious as to be perceived by everybody . 
He now saw that this singular and bad woman had a design in pursuing him , and that several of those around were probably aware of it . 
The Countess Carolan regarded him with a calm gravity ; Carolan stood stiff and proud , with his nose in the air . 
Claude was silent . 
`` I think I met your father , General Wyndham . 
He was General Wyndham -- was he not ? '' 
He had never so completely lost his self-possession . 
He was aware that these questions did not originate in mere curiosity , but were obviously put by one who knew , by whatever means , that they could not be readily answered . 
The surprise with which he discovered this cool and deliberate intention to pursue and injure him , and the difficulty which he had in conjecturing what could be the cause and origin of such a course , added to his dilemma . 
He could neither retreat , nor answer , nor decline answering , without affording the desired triumph to his malignant and mysterious enemy ; and the consciousness that the eyes of all around were fixed upon him , and that even they who were most his friends regarded his hesitation with astonishment , if not suspicion , did not increase his presence of mind . 
He cast a glance around , and beheld each countenance expressive of their various sentiments , and his head absolutely turned dizzy when a low laugh was heard from Elkington , and Lady Beverly continued , `` Pray , Mr. Wyndham , if not General Wyndham , what wasyour father 's name ? 
I am sure I have met him somewhere . '' 
The flashing eyes of Claude fell upon him , but did not intimidate him . 
St. Hillaire withdrew Claude into the corner of the cabinet . 
Elkington , following them , approached , and , in such a whisper as only Claude and his new friend could hear , said , `` You are a scoundrel , sir ! '' 
Claude calmly replied , `` If your own actions , my lord , proved you to possess a judgment sound enough to form just opinions , or a character pure enough to give them any importance , I should feel more regret in knowing what you think of me ; as it is -- '' `` Well , '' said Elkington , his face growing red , and his whole frame trembling with a passion which he could not control , `` as it is -- '' `` I consider the terms in which they are expressed a sufficient indication of the person who utters them , and of the attention they deserve . '' 
This short dialogue had taken place in so private a manner as to elude the observation of every one but General St. Hillaire , to change whose opinion of Claude it was probably intended ; but several persons now approaching , Elkington only remarked in a low tone , and with more self-command , `` At a proper time I shall request an explanation of your remark , '' and withdrew . 
General St. Hillairewas now called from the side of Claude , and the latter , surrounded by so many prying and unfriendly eyes , was thinking of withdrawing from a scene where so little attraction awaited him , when Miss Digby complained of faintness , and Claude offered to lead her out . 
She desired , however , that he should conduct her into the boudoir of Madame de B -- . 
He accordingly led her to this distant room . 
It happened that , at the moment when Claude led in his pretty young charge , no one was there . 
He supported her to a sofa , and would have gone immediately in search of her mother , but she grew so pale , and was so evidently about to faint , that he could not quit her . 
`` It is the heat , '' said Claude . 
If anything should happen to him -- if you -- '' `` Fear nothing for Lord Elkington , '' said Claude , not without observing , more than usual , the weakness of this young girl 's mind . 
`` Upon my word , I will not , '' said Claude , smiling . 
`` Oh , dear Mr. Wyndham , '' said she , seizing his hand and raising it to her lips , `` you give me new life . 
`` I have no such intention , certainly , '' said Claude . 
`` Oh , thank you , '' she said again , seizing his hand once more and pressing it to her lips . 
She could not help seeing Claude , and the manner in which he was engaged , as his hand was still in Mary 's when she entered . 
The sight of this young girl , thus alone with him , and probably for the last time ; the idea that he was soon to leave her for ever , and with an opinion which could not be other than contemptuous of his conduct and character , and the coincidence by which he had been thus discovered with Miss Digby , all threw Claude once more into an embarrassment . 
These new situations , he found , were too much for his composure , they came upon him so unexpectedly and in such quick succession . 
The return of Ida to his side when she saw he was alone , was at once so far beyond his hopes and fears , that he knew not what inference to draw from it , nor how to act . 
It appeared as if his guardian angel had thrown in his way an opportunity , if not to declare his sentiments , and request from the girl he so tenderly loved to abandon her brilliant but unhappy position , and tread the path of life with him , at least to bid her farewell in a manner in some degree corresponding with his anguish and his sacrifice ; but the formal promise he had given Madame Wharton was not an instant absent from his memory ; and with a firm effort of self-command , and a secret prayer for aid to that Power which sustains all who earnestly desire it , he determined to guard every word and look with conscientious care . 
At length Ida , with a dignity which surpassed all that he could imagine of what should be her demeanour on such an occasion , a modesty as of an angel suffusing her cheek with a faint colour , said , `` I fear Mr. Wyndham will scarcely forgive me for the liberty of intruding into his affairs ; but the scene which has just occurred -- the -- Lord Elkington -- my father -- in short , I am alarmed , you may believe , for the result . '' 
The calmness of her manner , which almost became coldness as she finished , restored Claude in a moment to his usual composure , took from the interview the character of a tender tête-à-tête , and placed him at once in the position of a stranger -- such as he might have felt himself in on a first meeting . 
`` If you allude to the safety of Lord Elkington -- '' said Claude . 
`` And can you -- '' Claude began , but recollected himself . 
`` I can not imagine what farther insult his lordship can offer me , but a multiplication of terms which mean nothing , and but meant -- '' He paused again , remembering that he was speaking of her destined husband . 
Claude 's heart stood silent as if life was suspended , and a thrill ran through his whole frame . 
So beautiful did she look thus before him -- the changing of her feelings were reflected so clearly on her transparent complexion and mobile features -- the idea that she required but a word from his lips , but a glance from his eyes , to requite the deep love which he at this moment felt for her more forcibly than ever , nearly caused him to forget his resolution , and to declare to her all the agitation and tenderness of his soul . 
He perceived even , as Madame Wharton had stated , that she was ignorant of his love for her ; that her innocence and artlessness had seen in his manner only the partiality of a friend ; and that his appearance at Monsieur de B -- 's with Mary Digby , and the interview in which she had found him engaged with that young lady , had completely confirmed her in the belief of what Elkington had told her respecting his intended marriage . 
`` Let me be your friend , Mr. Wyndham , '' said she , with a faint smile ; `` I believe I can advise you , and , if your own happiness can not influence you , let that of another . '' 
said Claude , forgetting in a moment all but the inference which , for an instant , he drew from her words . 
She nearly fainted on seeing your momentary interview just now with Lord Elkington ; go , Mr. Wyndham ! 
What would Claude have then given to inform her that it was for Elkingtonthat Miss Digby had betrayed so much tender solicitude -- that she was a silly girl in whom he had not the slightest interest -- and that , in leaving her , he was tearing himself from peace of mind for ever . 
He , however , made no reply ; and the music of the distant ballroom now ceasing for a moment , several persons strolled into the boudoir . 
Onreturning that night to his lodgings , Claude found a letter from Denham . 
The letter reached Claude at last by the post from Vienna . 
It threw a new aspect over Claude 's affairs . 
Claude gazed upon the rooms which he had so often seen blazing with light and animated with gay crowds , upon the silent pavé so often thronged with glittering carriages and trampling horses -- now all gone . 
It was possible he might never see her again . 
`` Farewell , '' he said , `` lovely and ever beloved . 
In the weakness of the moment , it seemed to him as if he were taking that farewell which he dare not do in reality , and as if this solitary moment were rendered more sacred by a parting which was to separate them for ever . 
He walked on . 
His steps were bent almost unconsciously towards the Park ; and , passing the Brandenburg gate , its stately form lifted against the glittering heavens , and the magnificent group on its top showing in that soft light as if some goddess had descended , indeed , upon earth , in her airy car , down that star-paved road . 
He entered this lonely spot , which had been the scene of his rash hopes , and which was now the mute witness of his despair . 
Claude was one of those strongly acted upon by the various aspects of nature . 
It was not necessary for him to seek Alpine cliffs , Italian shores , and distant deserts , to thrill beneath the beauty and power which , to those formed to be touched by these divine mysteries , lie ever around , above their heads , and beneath their feet . 
Where the common mind wanders unstirred , beholding only common things , his finer spirit saw God 's footstep and the writing of his hand ; and he entered this perfectly-abandoned forest , with its heavy piles of foliage and shadows -- its dark aisles -- its grassy and flower-enamelled floor -- its arched and leafy vaults , and its utterly hushed recesses , with a feeling of solemn delight and awe , which made him move slowly , as over enchanted ground . 
The trees , as they stood grouped around , to his aroused imagination half seemed a company of unearthly beings , communing with each other in a wordless language , and reaching forth to the earth and to the stars their ancient and appealing arms . 
Claude stopped beside this tree to admire a night-scene , which , in its soft and simple beauty , seemed disposed for the study of a painter . 
said Claude , `` I am amazed . 
`` Oh , Mr. Wyndham ! 
`` It might have been much worse though , '' said Claude , smiling . 
`` No , '' said Claude ; `` the man by this time is probably long past pursuit , and most likely has entered by some other gate . 
`` But pray satisfy my curiosity , '' said Claude , `` for I scarcely find this attempt on my life so extraordinary as your being here so opportunely to save me -- and at such an unseasonable hour ! '' 
said Claude , with emotion , `` I know not . 
A wonderful coincidence has brought you before my eyes ; and with you , Mr. Wyndham , such singular associations and vague hopes as make me tremble . '' 
echoed Claude . 
`` You are ill , '' said Claude ; `` you are exhausted with the terror of this night . '' 
`` I am encircled by awful mysteries , '' said Claude . 
`` But come , '' said Claude , `` I have been excited and weak . 
He pressed it to his lips . 
`` You are , '' said he , `` the only one on earth who takes an interest in my lonely fate , and I thank you . '' 
`` I have promised , '' said Claude . 
He felt that he yielded to her influence as a mortal to a superior being , sent thus by Heaven to save his life in the moment of peril , and to support his resolution with the inspired words of hope and virtue . 
The inquiries which Lady Beverly had so pertinaciously put to Claude respecting his family , had been the result of a settled plan to embarrass and disgrace him , and it perfectly well succeeded till his last reply , which , with the dignity of truth , turned the tables against them , carried conviction to every heart , and rather created sympathy than the distrust and derision intended . 
On reaching the hotel after the ball , instead of retiring to bed , they sat up , engaged in a conversation upon the state of their affairs , in which Claude now began to play an important rôle . 
As for this Wyndham , he need n't think to escape me . 
Claude Wyndham has insulted , injured , and thwarted me . 
Yet these cautious cowards would have us believe that earth and heaven are moved when a miserable creature like this Wyndham is turned into his grave a few years before his time . '' 
It was Claude 's letter to Count Carolan , enclosing that from Denham . 
`` And if , '' said he , `` he refuses to fight , I 'll -- '' The door was suddenly thrown open , and Scarlet announced `` Mr. Wyndham . '' 
`` Mr. Wyndham ? '' 
Mr. Wyndham ? '' 
`` It is Mr. Wyndham , my lord , with another person . '' 
At the word of the servant Claude entered , dragging in with an iron grasp an individual who , although he resisted , seemed scarcely to require an effort of his athletic arm . 
Thrust into the middle of the floor , he lifted a pale countenance , so much altered that he was with difficulty recognised as the complaisant and even amiable Carl . 
Claude advanced to the table where Lady Beverly and Elkington had been sitting . 
`` I might offer an apology to Lady Beverly , '' said Claude , `` for this abrupt and unseasonable visit , but the occasion must be its own excuse . '' 
I followed and seized him as he was creeping stealthily back to his home . 
I demanded whom he had been to see -- what employment he was charged with from other persons than myself -- whom else he served -- what letter he had delivered -- and why this air of guilty secrecy . 
said Elkington , reaching from a bookcase at his side a pair of duelling pistols , and laying them with a quaking hand and an ashy face upon the table , `` if you are not a scoundrel -- '' `` Repeat , sir , '' said Claude to Carl , `` what you have just confessed to me . '' 
said Claude . 
you shall give me satisfaction for this ; you shall hear from me before you sleep , and in a way which , if you are not dead to every feeling of honour -- '' `` Of my honour , my lord , '' said Claude , `` Iam the guardian , and I believe youare not the judge . '' 
`` If you can point your finger , '' said Claude , with perfect composure , `` at one action of my life which dishonours me , I shall feel annoyed by the terms you make use of . 
The good name of a nobleman and a lady are not to be destroyed by the raving of a valet-de-chambre , nor the malignant plots of a miserable impostor , without rank , fortune , or family ; a child of guilt and chance , whose father is probably in a convict 's cell -- whose mother -- '' Claude laid his hand on the pistol nearest him , and Elkington , with a sneer of triumph and hate , grasped his , and continued , `` Whose mother , after a life of pollution , has died , amid hisses and jeers , on the scaffold . '' 
It is not certain that Claude , thus goaded beyond example and almost beyond bearing , might not have consented to arrangements for an immediate meeting ; but he remembered his promise given to Madame Wharton , and laid down the deadly weapon . 
At the same moment he perceived something which again reminded him that he was dealing with a man beneath his notice . 
asked Claude . 
`` Most positively , '' said Elkington , `` and I pronounce him -- '' `` Spare your invectives , my lord , '' said Claude . 
Elkington looked down , and beheld the letter which Claude had written to Carolan , and which , in his confusion , he had retained in his hand . 
It was open , and the signature , `` Claude Wyndham , '' was conspicuously visible . 
`` You will excuse my resuming my own property , '' said Claude , reaching forward and taking the two letters . 
Elkington 's eyes absolutely flashed with fury as Claude moved to take the letter from his hand , and he cocked the pistol and raised it , his face whitening with his dreadful purpose . 
But the act of deliberately shooting an unarmed man , of sending headlong into eternity the human being who stands erect before him , in all the loveliness of life , requires a nerve which can scarcely be the gift but of madness , and which even this reckless villain had not yet become sufficiently frantic to acquire . 
He muttered in a voice choked and husky with rage , `` Wyndham , you shall hear from me to-morrow . 
It is possible that , had his foe shown any symptom of fear or retreat , he might so far have lost his reason as to have accomplished his dark intention ; but Claude was a man of strong nerve as well as of perfect courage , and he really feared death as little and much less than his rival . 
To him life was now bereft of its charm , and perhaps secretly he was scarce displeased at the thought of a sudden blow , which would terminate an existence doomed to such sad despair . 
This real indifference to death shed around him a calm grandeur . 
He stood firm and cool -- the very smile on his lips unchanged -- and the sternness of his brow softening into something of derision and contempt , while his clear , searching eye bent on his antagonist a gaze that pierced and cowed his soul ; and his unprotected breast lay so unshrinkingly open to the blow , that , in addition to the idea of a gibbet , a sentiment of shame touched the villain 's heart and caused him to lower his weapon . 
Claude withdrew without haste . 
Again he found himself alone in the cool , silent night . 
His eye was cast again over the tranquil streets and up to the starry sky . 
`` The point upon which I first request your directions relates to the annuity which , your lordship is probably aware , has been for several years paid by the earl to a certain person by the name of Claude Wyndham . 
The resemblance which he had often perceived in Wyndham to some one he had seen before , particularly when sternness came over his countenance and indignation flashed to his eyes -- this singular resemblance , curious as it may appear , he now for the first time perceived , was to his father ; but in the smooth face of youth and health , the expression had not been traced to that of the earl , now worn with grief , thought , and age , and his head covered with white hairs . 
`` You have taken , as you thought , very efficient measures to ascertain whois your friend Mr. Claude Wyndham ? '' 
`` Yes , '' said Lady Beverly , turning deadly pale ; `` what do you know of him ? '' 
`` That he is the son of my father , '' said Elkington -- `` that he is my brother -- that he is the heir of the Beverly estates and titles ! 
The clothes we wear , the carriage we drive , our luxuries , our fortunes , our expectations , are his , and we are beggars ! '' 
Claude Wyndham is -- '' `` Silence , madam , '' said Elkington , in a voice of thunder . 
`` When other means fail , '' said Lady Beverly , in a low voice , but one full of calmness , and which arrested and awed him for a moment -- `` when the world knows what we know -- when Claude Wyndham himself knows it -- when he hashis estates -- when no other means are left to save us from poverty , I will , with you , by a single act , end all my shame and misery ; but you are giving up the battle before it is fought . 
Claude Wyndham may be kept ignorant -- this Richards may be kept silent . 
Before that event can take place , you may become the husband of Ida , or Claude Wyndham may die ! 
You may imagine my sensations on beholding , one evening , here in Berlin , this Claude Wyndham rise like an apparition on my path . 
The moment I saw him , I saw your father as he was in his youth . 
I saw all this in Wyndham . 
`` Ask an interview with Claude Wyndham . 
Bind him previously by oath , whatever may be the result , not to betray the subject discussed . 
Offer to put him in possession of the history of his family -- to present to him a father who will receive him with love , and a fortune beyond his wildest imagination -- this , on condition of his binding himself to allow you one half of the estate received . 
It will be his interest to do so ; and if he says he will make the allowance , he will . 
I hate , I loathe him , but I know that if he gives his simple word , it is stronger than other men 's bonds . 
This is an offer which he can not refuse . 
From a nameless traveller he will become a nobleman of rank . 
From almost a beggar he will suddenly become immensely rich . 
The dearest wish of his life will be gratified . 
He can then marry Ida , whom youonly value for her fortune . 
Say you consent , and let Claude Wyndham assume his station in society . 
Claude Wyndham must be put out of the way ! '' 
Theletter which Claude had taken from Elkington he sent again , by a more faithful messenger , to Count Carolan , without stating anything of the scene which we have described respecting it . 
The general was made acquainted with the resolution of Claude not to receive it . 
This was also politely declined ; upon which General Le Beau declared his intention to horsewhip Mr. Wyndham in the street , if he did not punish him more seriously . 
`` I am extremely obliged to you , '' said Claude , `` for notifying me of your intention ; and as being shot , from what I see , is a disagreeable thing , I shall instantly take measures to protect myself from a calamity which seems as little favourable to grace as temper . '' 
Though obviously prepared to be astonished , his surprise more than equalled his anticipations , when , instead of turning deadly pale or furiously red , trembling in the knees , and endeavouring to knock his -LRB- the general 's -RRB- brains out or his own with the first adequate utensil within his reach , Wyndham , with a very quiet smile and a wave of the hand , which actually had some appearance of being intended for satirical , replied , `` You will not be offended , general , if I remark , that I differ from your opinion of me as much as I do from that which you appear to entertain of yourself . '' 
said the general , with a prodigious twist ; `` and since , sir , you are -- '' `` I am verysorry , general , '' said Claude , `` to be unable at present to listen to your interesting observations , especially as your ideas are so extremely sensible . 
demanded the general , the gash upon his cheek becoming doubly inflamed by the effects of rage . 
said Mr. Wyndham , rising quietly and opening the door . 
If he hadbeen gifted with that dangerous weapon , at Claude 's order to his servant to show the general down stairs ! 
our hero 's merriment would have probably received a check which must have ended him , and these volumes as a consequence . 
It was evident that the general had some desperate intention ; so , while he was gone to render an account of his mission to Elkington , Claude quietly presented himself at the police , and laid a statement of the affair before that tribunal , after which General Le Beau gave him no farther trouble . 
Claude had scarcely arranged this affair , which he did much to his amusement , and without making any mention to the police of Elkington , when he received a roughly-written , dirty note in German . 
The question was repeated in a more furious tone , and answered in English with a stammering hesitation which would have rendered any language unintelligible ; and the insulted pedestrian , losing patience at the idea that the insult was intentional , seized Digby by the collar , amid a crowd which had already began to collect , and was in the act of inflicting a summary vengeance , when Claude stepped up to his relief . 
He explained that he was a stranger , ignorant of the language , and that he could answer for his absence of mind , which had occasioned the accident . 
The good man willingly received the apology from one of Claude 's appearance and manners , and respectfully assured him of his satisfaction . 
The parties separated , the crowd dispersed , and Digby said he would accompany Claude on his walk . 
said Claude . 
`` You must not be so severe upon my good friends here , '' said Claude ; `` and remember that a poor Prussian in London would be even worse off than you are here . '' 
`` Why , as to their being all alike -- '' said Claude , Mrs. Digby 's form recurring to his memory by the side of Ida 's . 
`` They certainly are women , '' said Claude , `` but we must , on that account , not be too hard upon them . 
Heaven has made them of a finer material -- a more fragile construction -- and we should accommodate ourselves '' -LRB- he was thinking of Ida -RRB- `` to their softer and more delicate natures . '' 
`` I should think Mrs. Digby would look Queen Elizabethbetter , '' said Claude , smiling . 
said Claude ; `` when you are an older traveller , you 'll think nothing of them . '' 
`` Contradicted your opinion , I suppose , '' said Claude . 
`` Turned away , I suppose , '' said Claude , scarcely suppressing a smile . 
Well , he then said there was a gentleman who perhaps would assist him if he knew his situation , and he mentioned the name of Mr. Claude Wyndham ; a name which , in his delirium , he had often uttered in many various tones . '' 
said Claude . 
`` So , in short , sir , I took the liberty of complying with his request , and sending you a note . 
He told me your address himself . 
Claude explained this to Digby , and asked him if he would go in . 
`` A -- a -- I -- a -- beg your pardon , '' said the latter , looking at his watch . 
And , with some marks of precipitation , he withdrew . 
Claude drew an unfavourable opinion of his friend 's character from this little incident ; for , under all his stupidity and vulgarity , he had conceived an idea that he was generous and charitable . 
Being , however , thus deserted , he allowed himself to be ushered into the patient 's room . 
It was a sad home for any one , but struck Claude 's feelings with peculiar mournfulness when he reflected that it was the abode , and perhaps the last one on earth , of the dying . 
A faint recollection of such a countenance , scarcely recognisable through the alterations of disease and the overgrown beard , crossed Claude 's mind ; and the invalid , at a gentle shake from his host , had no sooner started , turned his eyes towards the new-comers , and fixed them with a stern and bewildered look on Claude , than he recognised the young man whom he had first seen planted before the portrait of Ida ; whom he had afterward met in the same place and position ; who had so oddly deceived him as to the original of the portrait ; and who , Ida had informed him , was her Italian master . 
`` My friend , '' said Claude , with much sympathy , `` you are unfortunate , and ill ; and you have done very right to claim the assistance of others . 
`` There is something about you , Mr. Wyndham , which makes me feel I can unbosom myself to you -- my weaknesses -- my crimes even -- without being ridiculed or betrayed . 
Claude for a moment forgot the invalid in the interest excited by his words . 
Confused hopes that something respecting his family might be the subject of the promised revelation -- that it might refer to the late mysterious attempt upon his life -- in short , he scarce knew what to think , and he betrayed his curiosity in his countenance . 
There was something in this rhapsody of Rossi that awakened singular emotions in the heart of Claude , and , at the same time , exceedingly interested him in the ardour and eloquence with which the poor fellow opened his history . 
said Claude , his eyes scarcely discerning the anguish-stricken countenance of the young madman through his rising tears . 
It would be difficult to describe the emotion with which Claude heard this long recital , and the secret rapture which the passage concerning himself awakened in his heart . 
He was , then , beloved . 
He had but to present himself to Ida , and her innocent and gentle nature would not conceal the impulses of her soul . 
But the restraints upon him were invincible . 
He felt that , instead of triumphing , he ought to lament that he had so far won the affections of a young girl , whom her happiness , as well as his own duty , compelled him to desert , and to seem to betray . 
The landlord , on being called in , agreed to this proposition ; and Rossi discovering an inclination to sleep , Claude gave his card to the host , begging him to send for Doctor B -- in his name , and to let him know in case anything should occur . 
Thus having done everything for the present which he could think of towards satisfying both host and tenant , he retraced his steps towards home . 
It was six when Claude returned to his hotel . 
He was met at the door by his friend Denham , who had just arrived from London . 
Of all men , he was the one he most esteemed and loved . 
He was , in some respects , the antithesis of Claude , and it was , perhaps , this very difference which made them more attached to each other . 
He was totally without Claude 's contemplative habits , but usually acted from impulses which , if not always prudent or wise , were always noble . 
He was frank , generous , and bold ; full of strong affections and quick passions ; a faithful friend , and a good hater . 
The delight of such a friendly meeting as now took place , chased from Claude the clouds with which his present painful position had long shaded his mind and countenance . 
The proposition that Claude should join the party was at once made and accepted ; and , while listening to the voice of true friendship , so rarely heard in the crowded halls of fashion , and thus opening to himself a prospect of freedom from the sad thoughts and humiliations which had so long oppressed him in Berlin , Claude already felt the weakness of yielding to despondency , and the certainty of finding contentment , if not happiness , elsewhere ; even after having parted for ever from the object of his now so deep but melancholy love . 
It was not long before Denham had drawn from his ingenuous friend a clear account of what had happened since his last letter -- of his almost formal dismissal by the Carolan family -- of the malignant enmity of Elkington and his dark threats -- and of the challenge and its refusal . 
`` I fear nothing , '' said Claude , `` and I will certainly make no open demonstration of a desire to avoid him . 
Denham shook his head . 
`` I have a great mind , '' said he , `` and , were it not for Mary , I wouldmake him eat his words myself . 
Even as it is -- '' `` No , Charles , '' said Claude . 
Mrs. Denham now entered , and welcomed Claude with a warmth which proved how sincerely he was esteemed where he was really known . 
For several days Claude occupied himself with his friends , in seeing the town and its environs . 
In these constant rounds of occupation Claude almost forgot his situation . 
He found in the circle which gathered every day at dinner , that ease and unreserved gayety of private life , which pleased him more than all the brilliancy and pomp of fashion amid which he had spent the winter . 
You may be right , Claude , in letting him off ; but , were I in your place -- '' `` That 's Charles exactly , '' said Mrs. Denham ; `` I do believe he has a secret pleasure in being shot at . 
I am sure , Mr. Wyndham , you are too calm and reflective to suffer passion to hurry you into actions against right and reason . 
So tell Mr. Wyndham now the whole story , as a punishment , and see what he will say to it . '' 
`` A man said uncle Edward was no gentleman , '' said Ellen , coming up to Claude , who drew her towards him , much pleased with her countenance and manner ; `` and uncle Charles challenged him , and then the person begged his pardon , and said he wasa gentleman . '' 
Now there was a case , Claude , where no alternative was left . 
Am I not right , Mr. Wyndham ? '' 
`` I am certain , '' said Denham , `` that Wyndham , with all his self-control and determination , would consider himself bound to resent a blow to the last extremity . '' 
`` I do not see , '' said Claude , `` what there is in the blow of a frantic fool , to absolve from the rules of right and wrong , or to alter the tenour of a great soul and a rational mind . 
`` There is this use , '' said Claude , `` that when a man has determined how he would act in certain cases , upon the occurrence of these cases his steps , instead of being committed to headlong passion , are guarded by the cool decision of his temperate moments , and he is saved by the hand of principlefrom plunging down a precipice . '' 
`` Come , fill your glass , Wyndham ! 
It was eight o'clock , and he had resolved to go this evening , for the last time , into society in Berlin . 
After all that had occurred , he did not wish to leave town clandestinely , but to take this occasion to bid farewell to such of his friends as were not alienated by the slanders of his enemy , and to steal one more look at her who filled his soul with tender anguish . 
He had not seen Carolan for some time , nor the countess , nor Ida . 
He knew that the challenge from Elkington , which he had refused , had already become the topic of conversation . 
The fierce little general , disappointed in his intention of proceeding in the duel , or of taking summary vengeance upon Claude for the result of his mission , and the little respect with which the messenger had been received , found some vent for his fury in spreading everywhere the news of his enemy 's cowardice and disgrace . 
As gentlemen may be very ready to fight duels and blow other gentlemen 's brains out , and yet be capable of wide deviations from veracity , we must not be surprised to find that the doughty general garnished his recital with embellishments ; and he was a great talker and knower to everybody . 
According to his account , `` Mr. Wyndham had insulted his friend Lord Elkington , by calumniating him to Count Carolan , with the view of breaking off his approaching marriage with Ida ; that he had , accordingly , borne a message from Elkington , upon receiving which Mr. Wyndham had become exceedingly pale and alarmed ; and that , after having refused to fight , although urged to it by provocations which no gentleman could endure , and still refusing , he , the general , took his , Mr. Wyndham 's , nose between his , the general 's , fore and middle fingers , and pulled the same ; and that the operation had been performed with so little resistance on the part of the operatee , that he should have repeated it at short intervals , when not otherwise engaged , wherever the said Wyndham presumed to show the said nose in society , only he , the said Wyndham '' -LRB- and in this part of the account the general gave such huge twists with his body , and such ghastly contortions of his wounded cheek , as to render the description extremely lively and impressive -RRB- , `` had had the meanness -- the cowardice -- the -- '' -LRB- and here he used to make a pause , in consequence of there not being any word in either the French or German language exactly strong enough to convey the full extent of his contempt for such conduct -RRB- `` to go to the police and complain of a threatened assault ; thus meanly and basely , and in a most ungentlemanly manner , preventing his being shot , or , at least , horsewhipped in the street the next morning , as , but for this , would have been the case . '' 
The world at large are not unlike a flock of sheep in respect to the facility with which they may be induced to follow any one who undertakes to lead , especially in some unjust act or foolish opinion ; and the general , by his earnest manner of censuring Claude for not permitting himself to be shot , induced most of his hearers to conclude that the act had been totally unwarrantable , and unworthy of a gentleman . 
That gentleman , on discovering that Claude had dared to lift his thoughts to his daughter , fancied himself the object of as deep an insult as one man could offer to another ; and , once admitting into his bosom the feeling of revenge , it mastered his weak mind , and became his predominant desire . 
The letter sent him by Claude , containing that of Denham 's , he returned unopened , and Claude received it as he was dressing to go to Count N -- 's . 
He felt the insult , but he had made up his mind as to the course he should pursue , and he hoped in a week to turn his back upon Berlin for ever . 
`` Come what , come may , '' thought he , `` I will meet these gay crowds once more . 
While dressing , his servant brought him a newspaper , sent up by Denham . 
He unfolded it , glanced his eye across its pages , and was flinging it aside , when the name of the Earl of Beverly caught his eye , and he read the following : `` Death of the Earl of Beverly . 
Claude read this paragraph with a singular interest . 
He felt almost as if Providence were unjust to raise the profligate duellist to opulence and honour , and to depress him , who had shown himself so ready to sacrifice even his reputation in the cause of right . 
Claude entered with a secret tremble at his heart , which belied his outward tranquillity . 
There are , perhaps , to a proud and noble mind , few ordeals more painful than that to which he had now voluntarily subjected himself ; stranger as he was in Berlin , he had more of the support obtained by a long residence , and the consciousness that , whatever slanders might be circulated against him , enough of his real character must be known to create friends and defenders . 
Few have the prudence or the benevolence to doubt a slander , or , at least , to omit to circulate it until it is clearly proved , and Claude saw , the moment he entered the door , that he was a proscribed man . 
The Count and Countess N -- , however , greeted him with affability . 
He was in their house on their invitation , and they were , moreover , people of refinement and kindness . 
They had heard the accusations against him , but they also had formed a friendship with himself more intimate than the ordinary acquaintanceships of the saloons , and they perceived and respected in him a man of obviously superior mind and elegant deportment . 
People of sense and observation find these things out by a thousand various trifles , and Claude therefore , with them , stood as before . 
They respected and admired him , and were too intelligent to be led away by a vulgar love of scandal to believe evil at the whisper of those who were themselves far from pure . 
Claude even found both the count and his lady more affable than usual . 
Keen was the appreciation of this conduct , and deep the gratitude felt by Claude ; and it enabled him to regain his full self-command , and , perhaps , materially supported him through the principal incident to which he was subsequently subjected . 
It was with a cold heart that Claude left the side of his amiable hosts to stroll around the rooms . 
The same near-sightedness which had amused him so much when applied to poor Digby , he felt was by no means so entertaining when he experienced it himself . 
For some time Claude wandered around the rooms , every one appearing to avoid addressing him . 
The effect of this upon him was visible in an increased paleness . 
There are moments when the more we suffer the better able we are to endure , and this , for Claude , was one of them . 
He felt that to remain longer in a society , after so open an exposure of the estimation in which he was held , would be neither necessary nor delicate . 
He resolved , therefore , to retire ; but , before doing so , to seek with Count Carolan a few moments ' conversation . 
`` I had hoped Mr. Wyndham had discovered a more manly mode of righting his injured fame . 
`` Pray spare me your insinuations , sir , '' said Claude , mildly . 
`` Indeed , '' said Claude , remembering that he was addressing the father of Ida , and thus , in some degree , repressing the disgust which the pompous , arrogant manner and unreasonable remarks of his companion excited ; `` indeed , sir , in offering my defence of myself , I am obliged to place in your hands once more a letter concerning Elkington , which -- '' `` Stop , sir -- stop ! 
There was an insufferable conceit in the manner in which this was said , which made Claude 's blood boil in his veins . 
`` If , then , sir , '' said Claude , his patience giving way before the insufferable pomposity and insolence which appeared in every word and gesture of his former patron , `` your opinion is formed without cause , and adhered to against proof , I can only conclude that , in seeking to change it , I have placed upon it more than its real value . '' 
`` I protest , '' said Claude , after a moment 's reflection , `` I am wrong to forget that you have rendered me kindness which should ever seal my lips . 
I can not but think , in refusing me the opportunity to lay my character before you , you do me wrong ; but I did not mean to fail in my respect towards you ; and , '' for the image of Ida floated through his mind , `` Count Carolan , before we part , I beg your pardon . '' 
Tired of contending against these characteristic remarks -- disgusted beyond measure , even more with the manner than the matter -- and unwilling , from various considerations , to resent , Claude remained silent , inwardly hoping that a fool might thus be best dealt with ; but even silence was no refuge against the displeasure of Count Carolan . 
Astonished at this extraordinary speech , Claude , with an indignant heart , and the strongest possible desire to horsewhip him , turned in silence , and , with a burning spot in his cheek , withdrew , with the determination to retire instantly to his house , and leave Carolan , wife and daughter , without another word . 
He had done all that good sense demanded to re-establish his character ; and all , through the malice of Elkington , and the stupid pomposity and conceit of Carolan , had been in vain . 
He had reached the last antechamber , lost in thoughts of no tender nature , when he was astonished , not to say startled , to behold Elkington planted directly in the doorway through which alone he could pass to the street ; and , on the appearance of Claude , a low laugh announced a fiendish delight , which announced no good . 
Claude stopped and gazed a moment with surprise upon the features , attitude , and dress of his enemy . 
He was not in the ordinary habiliments of a ballroom , but wore a surtout and boots . 
His cravat was loosely tied -- his wristbands unfastened -- his vest but partly buttoned , and his hair dishevelled . 
His attitude was motionless as that of a snake before he springs . 
On a nearer glance at his features , he perceived that his face was much flushed , and his lips stained with wine . 
There was a certain air of swagger very different from his usual elegant quietness of manners ; and his eyes were fixed on Claude with a fury which probably neither wine nor passion could have produced separately , but which was the combined effect of both . 
Behind him stood little General Le Beau . 
Claude saw that a premediatated attack awaited him if he advanced , and , had it been possible , despite the sneers which such a course might have excited , he would have returned to the drawing-rooms rather than engage in a scuffle which , from the desperate character of his foe , might be a fatal one ; but he saw that it was the intention of Elkington to pursue him if he retreated , as certainly as to assault him should he proceed . 
For a moment Claude was stunned . 
He did not think of returning it . 
He started back and covered his face with his hands . 
He seemed blasted with thunder . 
He heard several voices exclaim , `` Ha ! 
His heart stood still . 
His reason left him . 
His principle against taking human life flashed upon him as a mockery . 
He stirred . 
It was to sacrifice , and tear to pieces the being who had brought this spell upon him . 
He found some one had grasped his arms and held him back . 
Fire fell from his eyes . 
He thought their glance alone could kill , and he turned them , that they might do so on his victim . 
He beheld him standing there -- very pale , but smiling ; a sneer -- as a devil -- on his face ; and his extended finger pointing at him . 
`` To-night -- to-night , '' said Claude . 
`` Lord Elkington , you are an infamous scoundrel , '' cried a voice from the side of Claude . 
It sounded like Denham 's , but he scarcely attended to it . 
He was still as one in a dream . 
Claude was released . 
The crowd had rushed from the inner apartments at the noise of the brawl ; Claude was surrounded by them . 
They opened to give him room as he passed out . 
He found himself in the open air ; alone , burning like an evil spirit just out of its abode of fire . 
This was the blasting thought which filled Claude 's mind as he bent his steps he scarce knew whither . 
He was in a state of agitation which he had never experienced before . 
He had no longer any power over his reason . 
His thoughts were tossed to and fro by a whirlwind . 
He felt , for the moment , that he would commit any crime , could he but tear the heart out of Elkington 's bosom ! 
`` But I have notborne it , '' said Claude . 
He rose and reached from his bookcase a pair of travelling pistols , and , placing them in his bosom , rushed from his house into the street . 
At first he knew not whether it was dark or light ; whether the weather was fair or cloudy , nor had he any precise idea of what he intended to do , or where he meant to go . 
He had not walked far when he saw a man . 
He was a sentinel . 
For the first time in his life he felt unable to bear the eyes of a fellow-being . 
The swollen wound upon his face seemed a mountain , and he forgot everything but the desire to withdraw himself into solitude -- darkness -- and silence -- away from the gaze of all -- even were it in the grave . 
Then there came to him again , as he walked , startling thoughts of self-destruction . 
Only death could relieve him from the agony of his heart . 
He cast his eyes about him upon the surrounding objects -- the long , quiet streets -- the deserted squares -- the silent houses -- the soft , waving trees . 
He wondered to behold such tranquillity -- such peace -- after all his anguish . 
He walked beneath the soft branches with shame -- he shrank from the moonlight reflected against the houses -- the very pavement he seemed to tread on as an intruder -- as a felon ; and he looked around him like guilt , stolen in the night from its lurking-place -- ashamed -- and fearful of being seen . 
`` Ah , '' thought Claude , as a moment of calm reflection came to him with the soft air and balmy night-breeze , `` little dreams he who , rude in nature , bad in heart , and feeble in understanding -- without principle , feeling , or religion -- with no restraints in this world , and no communings with the other -- ah , little thinks the common , vulgar mind of the dread act he perpetrates when he launches a blowagainst a fellow-being . '' 
He bent his steps towards his favourite Park . 
His thoughts now rolled through his mind less confusedly . 
He was no longer mad , but they had a deep and solemn motion . 
He passed through the tall Branden-bourg gate . 
`` He sees , '' said Claude , `` humiliation in my very walk . '' 
He felt the rapid motion -- the cool , sweet air abate , sooth , and calm the heat which till now had oppressed him . 
He penetrated into the beautiful recesses of the luxuriant wood . 
It was again a bright moonlight , and the scene touched him through all his agitation and awoke other feelings . 
he said , `` pure shades ; receive the outcast , now doubly outcast . 
He paused . 
`` It is not right , '' muttered Claude , `` to take human life for human passion . 
A peal of thunder burst over the starting earth ere the last word had left his lip ; at the same moment the lightning darted with a blinding intensity . 
Claude had not yet moved when a torrent came rushing down , and he was drenched to the skin ; when he raised his head , the sky was wrapped in utter darkness . 
The peal was followed by another , and so close and heavy that the instinct of self-preservation occupied his mind , to the exclusion of the subject which had so deeply agitated him . 
He hastened out of the Park into the broad road , where he was less in danger than among the trees . 
The floods which drenched him were delicious , and cooled his fever . 
He breathed more freely , he trod more firmly ; and , if the truth must be added , at a considerably swifter pace than he generally adopted . 
His course was bent also towards the gate , and he reentered the town . 
The dispersion of the vapours was so extremely rapid , that , even thrilled as he was by the incident which had just occurred , it fastened his attention . 
A massive breadth of vapour had passed from before the moon , and she broke out full orbed and almost light as day , while each torn fragment of silver cloud disappeared entirely , and the air became as still as the heaven . 
`` Oh God , '' said he , `` I worship thee in thy temple , I call upon thee for aid . 
And his soul now poured itself in prayer , which seemed to rise unimpeded to the Throne of Mercy . 
He had implored a sign , and Heaven had granted it . 
The serenity of nature taught him by its example to sit serene after the mildest storm , which the same hand that conjured up could waft away , and that no tempest could reach the fair arrangement of right and truth . 
Slowly he wandered to his home . 
No weakness disturbed his spirit or his intellect . 
He had made up his determination to pass the indignity he had received in silence . 
At the word of reflection and of religion the hot blood flowed cool and placid through his frame . 
His obedient pulse played temperately , and all his soul was peace . 
As he did so , Claude caught a full view of his countenance in a mirror . 
His gaze was fixed on an object in the adjoining apartment . 
Extremely shocked , Claude advanced and followed with his eyes those of his friend . 
He started , however , at what there met his view , and was about retiring , for he found himself gazing upon the face of Mrs. Denham , tranquilly sleeping . 
A kind of bewilderment held him chained to the spot . 
Again he shook violently . 
He bent his lips near hers , but did not touch them , and then turned away . 
He appeared to feel no surprise on seeing Claude . 
He seized his arm , and they hurried into the hall . 
Denham turned as if startled by the sound of his voice , and now recognised him . 
`` What , Wyndham ! '' 
He turned very pale , and silently pointing with his inverted thumb to his room , `` Claude , I commit herto your care . 
stammered Claude . 
For so completely had he been stunned by the last night 's scenes , that no trace of Denham 's interference and its consequences had struck his attention . 
As his friend broke away , and he heard the sound of horses ' feet driven at a rapid gallop over the pavement , a dim , dreamy idea of Denham -- and hot words -- and he knew not what , came over him . 
Denham , then , had been implicated in his quarrel , and was gone to fight a duel . 
To fight for him , perhaps . 
The thought affected him more terribly than all his own pangs . 
He rushed to the door . 
He went into the street . 
He went out and looked in the direction in which he had heard the horses ' feet . 
He returned to the hotel . 
He spoke to a boy , and asked if he had seen any one pass . 
No , he had seen nothing . 
He suspected nothing . 
And Claude suddenly thought of the police , and instantly set off with the determination to call in their aid . 
As he went into the street again , a young boy came along , singing aloud . 
Every attempt made by Claude to see the police was vain , and he was about returning to the hotel , when he suddenly thought of Elkington . 
What if he went to his hotel ! 
He determined to do so , notwithstanding the reluctance , the repugnance he felt to show himself there or anywhere among his fellow-men ; farther , he remembered again that he bore the evidence on his brow of the insult inflicted upon him the preceding evening . 
He went , and gave the servant his card for Lady Beverly . 
He begged she might be awakened . 
said Claude . 
`` I will go myself , '' said Claude , `` to Lady Beverly 's door . 
He stepped forward . 
The man laid a brawny hand upon his arm , and coolly clinched the other fist . 
Claude grasped the fellow by the throat and dragged him a few steps with a force which greatly astonished him , who thought he had only a chicken to deal with ; and his astonishment was not diminished when , just as he thought he was to receive a `` drubbing , '' Claude released his hold , and said , `` Poor fellow ! 
`` I understand , '' said Claude , with a sickening heart . 
Claudewent back to his hotel in a state of mind bordering on distraction , but it had the effect to divert him from the consideration of himself . 
It seemed that a fatal duel on his account , in return for an insult which he had declined to resent , was all that was necessary to sink him to the lowest depths in the world 's esteem , if not in his own . 
He would have gone again to the police , but he had no precise information to give , and he felt sure , too , that it was too late for interference . 
At this moment a voice from a servant at the top of the stairs called out , `` Has Mr. Wyndham come in yet ? '' 
`` I fear something very dreadful has -- '' Claude recovered from a momentary faintness , nerved his heart , and entered the room . 
All that he had imagined of horrible was surpassed by Mrs. Denham . 
He will come , he will come . 
He will indeed , indeed he will ! '' 
The moment Claude entered she saw him , for her wild eyes were fixed on the door ; she sprang up with an hysterical laugh , and , rushing upon him as a lioness on one who had robbed her of her young , she uttered , in tones that pierced his heart and froze his blood , the dreadful words : `` Ah ! 
`` No , no -- God grant -- I hope -- not -- not dead , '' muttered Claude , trembling beneath the powerful agitation of this scene . 
Claude turned away , and , pressing his extended hand against his forehead , shook as one by the bed of the beloved and the dying . 
She released her hold on him , and her hands fell nerveless by her side . 
Claude approached her , and took her cold hand in his . 
She would have fallen at full length upon the floor had not Claude caught her on his arm . 
He lifted her to the sofa , and , consigning her to the care of the maid , turned to the new-comer . 
said Claude , in a low tone , and with a shudder of inexpressible horror . 
`` Oh , it is certain , '' said Claude , `` Charles and he have settled it . 
I was sure -- '' The man shook his head . 
said Claude . 
Claude paused . 
And he instantly set off for Elkington 's lodgings . 
said Claude to Scarlet . 
`` No , sir , '' said Scarlet , touching his hat ; `` he has been home , but is now gone out again . 
Claude instantly bent his steps towards Carolan 's . 
He entered and mounted the stairs . 
The sound of distant music reached his ears . 
said the servant , for neither Claude 's face nor habiliments indicated one of the ordinary guests . 
At Claude 's name there was a sudden pause , and his entrance was remarked with much attention . 
`` Mr. Wyndham , '' said Carolan , `` you must be brief , for a trifling circumstance has occurred which renders it necessary for Lord Elkington to absent himself a while ; and let me take the occasion to observe , in the most marked manner , sir , that , in remaining here when he might easily have gained the frontier -- merelyfrom a high and imperative sense of honour , and a generous determination not to escape from you -- he has shown a character which places him far above your calumnies , and far above reproach . 
`` I come to demand my friend , '' said Claude . 
`` Mr. Wyndham , '' said Elkington , `` if you are not really a more despicable character than even I take you to be , you will not now decline the invitation which I tender you . 
`` I have , '' said Claude ; `` and an insult thus given and thus endured , recoils upon him who inflicts , and ennobles him who receives . 
There was a calmness in his manner which carried conviction to the very soul of St. Hillaire , and awed even Elkington himself . 
`` I forgive you , Carolan , '' said Claude ; `` and may the time never come when you shall know , too much to your cost , the difference between an honest man -- and such a person as you have made your friend . '' 
were the fearful questions from every lip as Claude returned to his hotel . 
`` I dare not , '' said Claude , with a shudder . 
A servant here came for Mr. Wyndham . 
He must go instantly to Madam Denham . 
It was with a faltering heart that Claude complied with this request , and once more approached the door where so lately he bade adieu to the friend who , perhaps , was now in eternity . 
As he did so , he heard the hasty steps of the bereaved widow -- her deep groans -- her bursting sobs . 
He entered . 
Her look made him shudder . 
`` Charles -- '' `` I know nothing , '' said Claude . 
Claude hesitated . 
`` Oh , Mr. Wyndham , for the love of God , tell me all . 
Claude had again addressed himself to the police . 
`` Mr. Wyndham , '' said Mrs. Denham , suddenly , in a voice of sternness , which made him think her senses were failing , `` youare the cause of this ! '' 
`` Mr. Wyndham ? '' 
Claude stepped forward and recognised Beaufort . 
He cast a glance around upon the rest of the company , but without in the least changing his manner . 
He was a man of the world , and well knew what he was going to see when he undertook the mission . 
Claude followed him into an adjoining chamber . 
`` Devilish painful duty , my dear fellow -- disagreeable thing -- in fact , d -- d awkward -- but -- '' `` Speak out , and tell me what has happened , '' said Claude , sternly ; `` Ialso have my duties . '' 
said Claude , with awe , with horror unutterable . 
echoed Claude , the sound of his friend 's living voice ringing in his ears ; his beaming , laughing eyes flashing full before his imagination . 
You 'll take good care of her , Wyndham ? 
Claude did not answer . 
He was reading the note he had just received , which struck his nerves and soul with an agony of horror and grief , traced , as it was , by one now in the grave . 
Trembling -- thrilling -- half blinded by horror and grief -- Claude , after several vain attempts , read the letter . 
She is an angel , Claude . 
As Claude finished reading , there was a slight stir behind him . 
He turned -- it was Mrs. Denham . 
Her pale face -- her wild eyes -- her long loose hair -- the singular expression which terror and long agony had called into her countenance , now heightened by the certainty that Denham was no longer living , gave her the aspect of a spectre escaped at the dead hour of night from the abodes of eternal wo : she had read the letter over his shoulder , and she stood pointing at it with the grin of a lunatic . 
Claude could not conceive , indeed , how she had been thus sufferedto escape from it . 
He had not time to follow her before he heard the wheels of a carriage rolling away from the door , and he understood at once that the body had arrived , and that the attention of the rest had probably been attracted to that new and appalling scene in the tragedy . 
Shuddering with a horror which he had never experienced before , as well at the thought of the shock which the approaching scene was about to communicate to himself as to the appalled heart of the widow , he overtook her once more in the room , which was now deserted by everybody . 
Then the landlord entered and whispered Claude , who took Madam Denham 's hand and led her into the adjoining room . 
She accompanied him passively . 
Claude held the hand of his companion with firmness , but , disengaging herself with a sudden start , she darted forward and threw open the door . 
There -- in his usual clothes , boots , and spurs -- his cravat off -- his face stark , stiff , white -- his long , glossy hair hanging back from his head -- his arm fallen lifeless from the table -- his marble forehead and lip touched with blood -- lay the dear , the revered , the happy husband -- his stately form extended in death . 
She even spoke with Claude calmly and rationally on the subject of her affairs ; begged him to make several necessary arrangements preparatory to her departure ; alluded to the anguish the news would cause her father , and inquired in what way `` Charles '' was to be buried . 
Poor Claude ! 
Mrs. Denham without him would have been alone , and it is frightful to think of the rude shocks her anguish-stricken mind would have been subjected to but for his firm , able , and watchful forethought and attention . 
He had left it at her call the day of Claude 's last visit . 
Claude had voluntarily slept in the room with the body . 
Locking the doors , wrapping his cloak around him , he threw himself upon a sofa at a late hour . 
Even exhausted as he was with mental and bodily fatigue , the proximity of the cold remains of the man he most loved , and the sobs of the unhappy widow , still , for a time , kept him from the sleep which nature demanded . 
Long before the gray light had paled the stars , Claude was up , and all things were ready to bear for ever away the sad remains of the loved one . 
Claude gazed long and deeply . 
he thought , as he perused those fixed and rigid features , `` cold habitant of abodes we know not of ! 
At this moment Ellen , her cheeks almost as white as those beside him , came to the door and beckoned Claude . 
He went to her . 
He stooped down and kissed her little quivering lips . 
She returned his embrace with a fond affection , as if she appreciated the kindness and wisdom of his character and conduct . 
Then she drew him by the hand along into the room of Mrs. Denham without saying anything . 
`` Mr. Wyndham , '' said Mrs. Denham , `` one farewell look ! '' 
Claude had dreaded this , and he turned away his head . 
He will hold , He will sustain me . 
`` Come , then , '' said Claude , feeling that the shock might perhaps be of service , by bringing her feelings to a crisis . 
The homely menials stood away as they approached , and Claude regretted , long ere he reached the spot , the permission he had accorded . 
The early labourer stopped in the street ; the peasant woman rested her burden , stood and listened ; and the windows of the surrounding houses were thrown suddenly open , while Claude bore a senseless form upon his arm from the room . 
The last star was yet visible in heaven as he returned from the neglected spot where the duellistwas committed to the bosom of our common mother , hastening unbidden into the presence of his Creator , and leaving behind him broken hearts and broken fortunes . 
There are events which seem great enough to stop him , but he still goes on . 
He stays not for the lover . 
He whirls away all his light dreams , and he equally carries on the wretch to the end . 
To Claude this unhappy girl now owed everything . 
He would have been paid but for Claude . 
Claude entered the room at the moment , sent to the police , had him arrested , and compelled him to make an humble apology and to beg for pardon , which , but at the request of her he had so brutally insulted , would not have been accorded . 
`` I am totally ruined , '' said she to Claude . 
`` No , madam , '' said Claude . 
`` Mr. Wyndham ! '' 
faltered Mrs. Denham , while little Ellen stole up to him , took his hand , and pressed it against her lips . 
`` I am your husband 's friend , '' said Claude . 
`` It is very well to talk in this way , '' said Claude , `` but I must tell you plainly , if you were ever so disposed to resist , you can not . 
`` Dearest Mr. Wyndham , '' said Ellen , coming to him as he sat , and putting her arm round his neck , `` how good , how kind you are ! 
said Claude , folding to his bosom the ingenuous little being , whose mind saw truth unclouded by sophistry or worldly example ; `` and , since I am to transact business hereafter with you , not with your disobedient sister , I shall tell you what else I have done . 
At nine o'clock the next evening , Claude conducted Mrs. Denham and her young companion to the office of the poste , where he presented them to Madame Wharton . 
Madame Wharton and Claude were already so knit in the bonds of friendship that he seemed to have known her all his life . 
`` Mr. Wyndham , '' she said , extending her hand , `` I can not reply -- I can not -- but God will bless your future steps . 
Claude was deeply moved by this address , though it fell upon his burning soul like a balm . 
`` Allons , messieurs , en route , '' cried the conducteur , cracking his whip . 
`` Mr. Wyndham -- dearest Mr. Wyndham , '' said Ellen , putting up her lips , her eyes streaming with tears , `` good-by . 
`` And remember , dearest child , '' Claude whispered in her ear before he lifted her into the carriage , `` in meyou have a friend . 
The cumbrous vehicle dashed off into the street ; a handkerchief was waved to him out of the window as it was lost in the shadow , he could not distinguish by whom ; and tears , sad but sweet , relieved his aching heart , and enabled him to breathe more freely , now that the curtain had fallen over the closing scene of the tragedy in which he had borne such a painful rôle . 
As he walked home through the crowded streets , the cool air fell soothingly upon his face , as if the breath of angels were mingled with it . 
He paced on through the narrow König Strasse -- crossed the bridge , where the colossal equestrian statue of the great elector frowned upon him through the shadows -- and beheld the vast Schloss rising against the summer heaven , as it had stood for centuries , and beneath whose roof he had spent so many happy hours amid those royal gayeties which fascinated him so much on his first arrival . 
An hour afterward , the Marquis of E -- 's letter and his own were returned unopened to Claude in one from Carolan , containing the following lines : `` I enclose the letter of the Marquis of E -- , as well as your own , without any other reply to the ` demand ' you make for an acknowledgment of ` error ' than that men 's opinions are their own , and differ in many points more doubtful and important . 
Claude tore the letter into pieces and dropped it on the floor . 
Its injustice and insolence he felt for a moment bitterly ; but he thought him an ass , and then dismissed the subject from his mind , he trusted , for ever . 
He had scarcely done so when the footman brought in two more letters . 
One was in his banker 's hand , which he welcomed with pleasure . 
He had not only long since used all his ready cash , but he had considerably anticipated his income . 
His late payments for Mrs. Denham had caused him to do this ; and as for the # 50 for which , in a casual transaction with Carolan respecting a horse , he had become indebted to him , and which that gentleman so singularly demanded , he had really , until now , forgotten to repay it . 
Nor did he find , in the pertinacity with which it was demanded , anything more than the desire of a little mind to avail itself of the most trifling opportunity of offering an insult . 
Since his payments for Mrs. Denham , in fact , he had not the means to refund it till the receipt of the usual remittance from his London banker , which he had some time before written for , and which he now every day expected . 
He opened the present letter , therefore , with a feeling of pleasure , as affording the means to settle his accounts and quit Berlin immediately . 
It was not without reading it over two or three times that he was able to comprehend its full import . 
This was now the case with Claude . 
He had not overdrawn his salary at any former time , nor had he ever been in debt . 
In an instant -- from his easy station -- when , self-dependent , he could smile at Elkington , and turn his back upon Carolan and the world -- the proud and haughty Wyndham was reduced to utter and hopeless destitution . 
Claude looked at him with astonishment , then broke the seal . 
As he did so , the man walked around the room , examined the pictures upon the walls , and half hummed a tune . 
The letter ran thus : `` Count Carolan begs that Mr. Wyndham will give the bearer the # 50 , or that he will name an hour during the day that he will deposite the sum at his banker 's . 
He will please to communicate with the bearer . '' 
demanded Claude . 
Claude felt all his self-government necessary to restrain him from thrusting the fellow down stairs . 
`` I will see the banker at two this morning , '' said Claude ; `` or , if your master wishes , I will see himself . '' 
`` Oui , monsieur ; '' and he sat down upon the sofa ; `` and I wish you to make haste , if you please , for I too am a little pressed . 
`` When your master sends a messenger whom a gentleman can receive or a gentleman would send , '' said Claude , `` I will return an answer . '' 
And he very coolly raised his legs upon the sofa , and , reaching a book , opened it with the air of a young lord looking into the last new novel . 
However that may be respecting other matters , there was certainly an end to Claude 's patience . 
He grasped , very leisurely , the fellow by the throat , and lifted him unceremoniously to the door . 
`` Well , '' said Claude , heated and indignant , `` I commence my new condition well . 
He once more took his hat , but he was again interrupted by the waiter of the hotel . 
by-the-way , '' said Claude , `` I forgot I had rung ; but did you see that fellow whom I put out of my room just now ? '' 
said Claude . 
The truth crossed his mind . 
`` Come back , '' said Claude , `` and shut the door after you . '' 
The fellow turned his face , whistled , and went on his way without paying him the slightest attention . 
I forgot , '' thought Claude . 
And , with a heavy heart , he made a third attempt to walk , which was luckily successful , though , as he went out , the landlord and waiter eyed him a with suspicion which almost indicated an intention to stop him . 
Sad were his thoughts as he sought once again his favourite retreats in the Thiergarten ; and it was characteristic of him , that the disappointment to which his adversity would subject Rossi , and particularly Mrs. Denham and Ellen , gave him much pain , even amid his gloomy views of his own future affairs . 
Embarrassment , humiliation , and actual want stared him in the face . 
It was deep noon as he found himself in the centre of the wood . 
The beak of the woodpecker made the forest resound , and the squirrels leaped , paused , and listened in the road ; and the swans , those most beautiful objects in creation , when throned on the water , gave to the landscape the air of some enchanted island , which might have intreasured the perennial bowers of Calypso and her nymphs ; `` and never , '' thought Claude , `` did the son of Ulysses meet danger more formidable , and the dear guide of his steps far away . '' 
Beautiful did this calm , bright world look to Claude on that morning ; but the topics which pressed immediately upon him left him little leisure for his ordinary and almost voluptuous enjoyment of nature . 
He could not , without a kind of dishonesty , sleep that night in the hotel . 
Where was he to sleep ? 
He had no friend to whom he could disclose his new calamity ; and if he had , taken in conjunction with all that had happened , could they believe him ? 
How was he to pay his debts ? 
How was he to procure food for the sustenance of life ? 
He had a valuable wardrobe ; watch , rings , diamond pin ; a horse , saddle , bridle . 
He thought these might bring enough to pay Carolan , the banker in London , and his bills in Berlin . 
He determined , without hesitation , to sell everything -- to the very coat he had on , rather than wrong any one . 
He resolved to dress himself at once in clothes befitting his new state . 
He resolved to listen to no false pride or shame . 
Honour , he felt , was in itself , not in `` the trappings and the suits '' in which men too often look for it . 
His own taste had rendered him a proficient in languages . 
He made a wry face at it , but , before he had walked an hour he had come to the resolution to offer himself that day as a teacher of English . 
The smile -- the sneer -- the scornful whisper of those who had predicted his downfall , when they should witness it , rose before him . 
But his mind was reallybrave , and the habit of looking to itself -- and to its Maker for right , enabled him to bear up against these painful anticipations . 
As for the blowwhich he had at first thought could never leave his mind -- already , in the wholesome exercise of action , in the preparations to meet the real exigences and sober duties of life , he had forgotten it . 
Even Ida , now that occupation had displaced idle reveries , he regarded with cooler judgment . 
His love for her was far from being abated . 
Claude gave him a groschen . 
He looked at it , surprised at receiving so much more than he had asked for , and went away looking back once or twice . 
He little knew how near he had been to wealth . 
Claude thought of the blessing which that money would be to him and to himself , but he thought of it without wavering . 
He knew the course of right was fixed , and was not only the noblest , but the most advantageous to pursue . 
`` Elkington has accused me of dishonourable intentions , '' he thought . 
And , had he been about to expend the money in pleasure , he could not have felt more impatience than he experienced to return the new-found treasure to its owner . 
Onre-entering the town , Claude cast his eyes upon the walls , trees , and fences where public bills were usually posted , and which he never thought of regarding before . 
At length one larger than the rest , conspicuously headed `` 100 thalers reward , '' met his eye . 
On examining it , he read as follows : `` Lost , on the 1st of January , in or about the town , a leathern purse containing 250 Louis . 
Claude instantly bent his way towards the counting-house of Monsieur Kühl . 
On arriving at the house , he entered the comtoir , and found himself , after passing an antechamber , in a large apartment filled with clerks behind high desks and counters ; he inquired for Mr. Kühl , and was asked for his card , which the young man , after reading , not without marks of interest , carried into his chef . 
`` I have the honour of speaking to Mr. Claude Wyndham , the gentleman lately connected with the dreadful affair which has happened in our town , and created such a sensation . '' 
Claude acquiesced . 
`` I am very happy to see you , Mr. Wyndham . 
Do not blush , young man , '' said Mr. Kühl , for Claude coloured at the allusion . 
`` Sir , '' said Claude , `` I have acted according to my conscience ; and your approbation , as a stranger , is grateful to me . '' 
And he laughed loudly at his humour . 
`` I shall always be too proud if Mr. Wyndham will honour me by a visit ; my wife and daughters want to see you . 
`` I have not come to take purses to-day , but to give them , '' said Claude , whom this narration had restored to a part of his natural ease and gayety of manner . 
He seized his hat . 
Claude began to think the old gentleman was crazy , from the rapidity with which he went puffing and blowing along through the streets , muttering half-uttered exclamations of impatience and joy . 
`` Hand it out , Mr. Wyndham . '' 
And it was with a sincere feeling of satisfaction that Claude laid the purse upon the table . 
`` Not a cent , '' said Claude . 
said the lady , turning to Claude . 
Claude had determined to take no notice of the late occurrence which had so materially altered his condition , and not to shrinkfrom being seen from any false shame . 
He determined to see this interesting military festival , and to mount his horse for the last time before he sold him . 
He therefore rode out with the crowd -- carriages full of ladies and gentlemen , royal equipages , and thousands of equestrians and pedestrians : it was a general fête . 
When he reached Spandow , he left his horse at an inn and ascended the ramparts . 
Claude secured a very good place on the ramparts , surrounded by troops , bombshells , cannons , etc. . 
As he stood here , with a group of gentlemen , awaiting the opening of the attack , a young man of genteel address , but whom he had never met in society , addressed him in French . 
Claude replied politely , and the stranger was pleased to continue the conversation . 
`` I am a traveller , '' said Claude . 
asked Claude . 
`` The duel and the poltroonerieof this Mr. Wyndham . '' 
Elkington , they say , castigated Wyndham , who dared not take up the quarrel , and who had been caught cheating at cards . '' 
`` I heard no such report , '' said Claude , quietly , but shocked to find how little justice he could expect from common fame . 
Lord Elkington caught Wyndham with marked cards , and horse whipped him . '' 
They say this Mr. Wyndham took as sound a drubbing as possible , without the slightest resistance . '' 
`` Why , I fear I shall have to spoil your story , '' said Claude , smiling . 
Do tell us -- '' `` Lord Elkington , '' said Claude , `` attacked a gentleman who was from principle opposed to duelling , and who had openly and often declared his determination never to fight -- '' `` Well , that showed he was a coward at once , '' said the young man . 
`` The gentleman had been guilty of no wrong , '' continued Claude , `` but that of exposing a very dishonest trick of Elkington , and the latter gentleman struck him -- '' `` Struck him ? 
Claude moved a little away . 
Some of them he knew . 
They bowed to him coolly , and regarded him with curiosity . 
Once he heard a lady whisper to a young companion , `` There , that 's he ! '' 
He went up to Mr. Wyndham , and called him all sorts of names . 
`` And what did Mr. Wyndham do then ? 
Did n't he draw his sword ? '' 
`` No , poor man ; he was so extremely afraid , he did n't say a word . '' 
`` Then Mr. Wyndham said he could n't fight a duel , and Lord Elkington walked up to him and struck him . 
`` Well , then , after he had struck Mr. Wyndham , and kicked him about a little , till he was out of breath , poor Mr. Denham ran up , and called Lord Elkington a villain , and then Elkington struck him too ; and Mr. Wyndham stood by all the time , and never said a word . '' 
`` And Mr. Wyndham never did anything about it ? '' 
`` Did n't shoot him ? '' 
What a pity Mr. Wyndham is such a coward ? 
-- he is such a handsome fellow . '' 
`` Oh , Inever could endure him . '' 
He is the most beautiful young man I ever saw ; so tall -- so noble -- oh , Heaven ! 
what a pity he 's such a coward . '' 
Claude quietly kept his position . 
He knew them all . 
Like everybody else , they were talking of him . 
`` Sir Walter Raleigh had a fellow spit in his face , and he did not return it , '' said the advocate of Claude , though rather feebly . 
`` But why , why , '' said the voice of Lavalle , who now spoke up for the first time , `` why is that magnanimous in Sir Walter Raleigh which is the reverse in Wyndham ? 
Elkington was no coward , but he quailed himself before Wyndham 's eye . 
There was a silence of a few moments ; Claude had already wished to escape the impropriety of listening , but he was confined within a narrow compass by the crowd and the troops , and it was impossible for him to avoid it . 
The conversation was resumed by Thomson , who said , `` In my opinion , Mr. Wyndham is a good-for-nothing fellow . '' 
`` Yes , he 's a fool , '' said a gruff voice ; `` even if he 's not a coward , he is a fool for putting himself in a position so awkward and equivocal . 
I begin to think with Wyndham , that men who grope about for ages in darkness , till some superior being shows the way out of it , only want a few resolute persons of undoubted courage and honour to set their faces against duelling , and to surrender to the laws the charge of punishing personal assaults as well as all kinds of insults , to render duelling unfashionable and boxing vulgar . 
The booming cannon , which had for some time been heard at times and in the distance , now approached and shook the air at shorter intervals , and the besiegers advancing , directed a heavy fire against the part of the walls where Claude stood . 
In the confusion which reigned everywhere , he was several times in contact with his old acquaintances , of whom some were affable as usual , but by far the greater part were cold , and many pretended not to recognise him in the least . 
Among them he saw the Carolans . 
None of their party perceived him but Ida . 
Her eyes met his a moment as he passed . 
They were full of gravity and sadness , but he made no attempt to offer her any token of recognition , but followed the example she had set , and they parted thus coldly and in silence . 
A short time afterward he found himself nearly alone . 
Claude did not follow them . 
His heavy heart took no share in this animated and beautiful spectacle , which presented a perfect counterpart of a fierce battle , every spot being crowded with combatants , and even the very windows and house-tops pouring forth their sheets of fire and smoke ; whose heavy masses , rolling slowly through the air , rendered the striking scene only dimly visible here and there . 
Itwas night when Claude reached his hotel -- amid all his troubles , happy in the consciousness that they were incurred without wrong on his own part , and delighted with the happiness he had been the means of communicating to the poor old lady , and the acquittal which he had caused to the innocent stranger . 
Haunted castles , blood-stained floors , and gliding spectres , with all the paraphernalia of Mrs. Radcliffe 's or Maturin 's stories , would have been more tolerable to Claude than these three bills of paper at the present moment . 
The idea of being in debt mastered his fortitude . 
He could neither advance , stand still , nor retreat . 
He could neither tell the truth nor remain silent ; and the intruders , who had thus early come , like ominous seabirds before a storm , to give him a melancholy foretaste of poverty , were not long in discovering his confusion ; and their manners changed at once from their usual exuberant respect to mingled astonishment and insolence . 
`` You must come in next day after to-morrow , '' said Claude . 
`` I assure you , '' said Claude , quietly , `` I do not mean to leave Berlin . '' 
Claude stepped towards the last speaker , and was going to put him out of the room , when he reflected that the man knew no better , and that , alas ! 
he had some cause to think as he spoke . 
He paused , with a shame and incertitude which the debtor must often feel . 
`` You are a very impudent fellow , '' said he . 
`` Mr. Wyndham , can you give methe money or any security ? '' 
But Claude 's mind was high , calm , and reflective ; and it is one of the blessings of great sacrifices that they render minor ones more easy . 
Claude , who had borne a blowfrom the hand of a gentleman , under the most aggravated circumstances which could attend such a humiliating infliction , saw nothing to drive him from his balance in the brutality of uneducated and coarse men , in the exercise of what they deemed their duty , and who would have been much better pleased with him had he been imprudent enough to put himself on a level with them by commencing a collision . 
He said , therefore , without passion , `` My good friends , I owe you money . 
His calmness appeared to puzzle the men , and even to abate the indignation of all , except the barber . 
`` Indeed , '' said Claude , `` I will do all in my power to prevent your losing it . 
`` No , frankly , '' said Claude , `` in money ; I have not , at least , any certain prospect . 
He answered with greater respect , `` Well , I will take the clothes . '' 
`` It is but just you should , '' said Claude . 
And , opening the wardrobe , he laid out the whole contents of his wardrobe , much of which was scarcely worn , besides the court suit , which our poor fortunehunted traveller did not see thus pass away without a sigh over the brilliant associations -- the royal halls -- the midnight suppers -- the delightful dinners -- and the hours spent in company of one he was now , perhaps , never to see again , which it conjured up . 
Claude then sat down and wrote an order for the horse . 
`` For you , '' said he to the groom , `` you can take your master this . 
said the barber , folding his arms insolently , and standing close to Claude with his feet a yard apart . 
`` There is your money , '' said Claude ; `` write me a receipt . '' 
`` I have no bill , '' said Claude . 
But he was not at the worst . 
thought he , `` little do you dream , amid your stately grandeur -- '' His reflection was cut short . 
Claude started at this apparition . 
said Claude . 
`` There must be some mistake , '' said Claude . 
`` Why , I have been told thatis the receptacle for the refuse of the town , '' said Claude , drawing back with considerable alarm . 
`` But there is a mode , '' said Claude , `` by which I may be arrested differently -- by which I may be guarded in a separate room . '' 
`` But -- I -- '' said Claude , `` my position -- I was assured -- my claim to belong to that class -- '' `` So we thought , '' said the lawyer ; `` but Count Carolan refused to listen to it . 
`` I am ready , '' said Claude . 
`` Yes , certainly -- no , '' said Claude , remembering he was penniless . 
The sturdy bailiffs , shouldering their clubs , surrounded him , and he passed into the street . 
As he left the door of his hotel a splendid equipage drove by , the coachman and two chasseurs in the richest livery . 
He recognised the carriage of Carolan . 
He caught a rapid glance at her face as they dashed by . 
`` Go on , fair and sweet girl , '' thought Claude ; `` thou to the bright haunts of pride and pleasure -- I to prison and despair . '' 
He went on his way to the prison , envying the meanest of the careless crowd about him , who , whatever were their privations , had at least their freedom . 
He passed by many a gay-lighted shop , full of people -- many a café , where young officers and éleganswere sipping their cream or coffee . 
He passed the theatre -- its windows lighted -- and the armed horseman stationed in the middle of the street before the door , guarding the votaries of pleasure from any interruption . 
Some of the passengers were hastening by , humming ; the little boys , as if prisons and miseries had no existence , were shouting in their careless sports ; laughter and music met his ears ; and the very barking of the dog had in it something careless , something free , which contrasted mournfully with his situation . 
Soft -- plaintive -- slow , it swelled upon the air till he passed close to the musicians , who retreated behind him , their sweet strains dying away like the last relic of happiness -- and of the world . 
His way lay through the Schloss , that vast and gloomy pile , whose immense courts , towering walls , and heavy sculpture impressed the mind with a vague sense of horror and grandeur . 
Often had he lingered amid these stately courts , touched with their huge and solemn character , and many an hour had fleeted away in their gorgeous apartments . 
So susceptible was Claude to picturesque beauty in the common scenes of life , that he paused to gaze with a kind of pleasant awe at these high-towering walls , crowned with statues , and their dark irregular summits marked along the sky -- and the stars -- the moon -- the all that was visible above through the few filmy clouds , drifting with a soft , silent motion , apparently close along the high roofs . 
He forgot that he was a captive as his eye measured these lofty walls . 
`` Allons , monsieur , allons , '' said one of the men , touching his shoulder slightly with his extended fingers , `` we have no time to lose . '' 
And he proceeded on his course , without again looking around or above till he reached the prison . 
One look around at the broad square , of which this receptacle formed the prominent feature -- at the shoreless , tranquil , ever-bright heavens -- and the door was opened with a clanking noise of chains and bolts , was shut again with the same ominous sounds , and he was within the walls of a jail . 
His reflections on entering it were not rendered less gloomy by the consciousness that he was there for a just debt , which he scarcely believed it would ever be in his power to pay . 
His conductors led him , with a sinking heart , into a low , smoked room , dimly lighted by a tallow candle . 
Here they demanded his money . 
He had none . 
They required to search him . 
He submitted . 
The man exchanged a few trivial remarks upon matters in no way connected with him , and had one or two jokes about something which had happened during the day , and at which they laughed heartily . 
It was that of his jailer . 
He was an athletic man with a good-humoured countenance . 
`` Bon soir , monsieur , '' said he . 
He led the way up one flight of naked , desolate stairs ; long , dismal corridors stretched from the landing-place on either hand . 
He followed his new master -- as a felon -- to a door , from which he withdrew the bolts , and which he then unlocked . 
The massive key turned twice with a clanking spring ere the last barrier between poverty and the happy world was passed , and Claude found himself in a filthy and extremely bad-smelling apartment , crowded with unhappy wretches , the smoke of a just extinguished candle filling his throat and nostrils . 
The men , although they had evidently been up -- and Claude detected near the candle the end of a pack of dirty cards thrust hastily beneath some clothes -- made a great parade of rising and putting on their clothes . 
Claude took it and attempted to drink . 
It seemed a type of his bitter and mean destiny , and he felt that he could not too soon begin to accustom himself to the loathsome draught . 
Besides , he was reluctant to offend the unhappy beings who , however rude and different from the polished companions of his past hours , seemed , at least kind in their intentions . 
they were all the friends he had left . 
A vacant bed of straw was pointed out to him as that he was to occupy . 
Before they retired he found great differences in their character . 
One was a dissolute knave in every word and action , and he was the most familiar with him . 
And he laid his hand somewhat facetiously on Claude 's shoulder . 
The prospect of being without food was seriously alarming , and Claude begged paper , pens , and a messenger to carry a note . 
`` Take my watch , '' said Claude , `` and let me have a little money on it till I can see my friends . '' 
The man shook his head . 
On a greasy table , with broken legs , and polished by being used not a little as a seat , Claude wrote a letter to Digby , begging him to come and see him . 
The gentleman was not at home , but Claude felt relieved . 
The idea of quitting the room and company in which he now found himself was his principal desire . 
It seemed that this alone would almost make him happy . 
how were his wishes narrowed since the time when he dreamed of palaces -- and equipages -- and Ida hanging on his arm , a fond and happy wife ! 
Every moment in his present position was almost insupportable . 
The rough humour , mixed with malice , of his enemy -- for , although he had not been twelve hours in this den of common misery , he had -LRB- poor human nature ! -RRB- 
already an enemy -- had gained the rest to his side . 
His undisguiseable repugnance to their familiarity , and his desire to escape from contact with them , were observed , and resented by nearly all ; and they endeavoured to make his situation as uncomfortable as possible , as some meaner birds of prey might pick at Prometheus while chained and writhing under the beaks of his fierce vulture . 
Claude held out his hand for his , and shook it heartily . 
His air and manner struck even those rude eyes , and for some time there was a cessation of hostilities . 
At ten , Claude , exhausted , lay down upon his couch , but he could not sleep . 
He fell sometimes into that dreadful state of dozing , when all the stings of reality seem sharpened , and the soul is given up to its horrors without the support of waking reason . 
He was oppressed with frightful dreams . 
He started often . 
Sometimes he thought himself falling off a precipice ; sometimes the ghostly image of Denham glided over him , and once he woke screaming , with the dagger of his assassin glimmering over him in the shadow , and in the act of piercing his heart . 
He thought now he should be obliged to remain a year in prison . 
What hope had he of relief ? 
How could he ever pay his debts ? 
A year with his present associates would cause him to contract foul diseases -- would make him , perhaps , as unclean and gross as they ! 
He rose again to escape from these dreadful apprehensions . 
His eyeballs burned , his head ached , and he found vermin crawling over him . 
Carolan , '' he thought , `` may Heaven forgive you . 
He took a cup and ate . 
His face was so pale and haggard , that , although his tormentor ventured a jest upon the recovery of his appetite , it was received in silence by the circle of by-standers , who proceeded to light their pipes without paying him any more attention . 
The food , which had looked so loathsome , tasted better than he expected . 
`` Besides , '' thought he , `` it is my fare . 
He now wrote a note to the English embassy , with the members of which he had a passing acquaintance . 
This expression of kindness touched Claude 's heart . 
He had scarcely been an hour alone when Digby came in . 
His face wore an expression of the deepest indignation which Claude had seen there yet , and there was also perceptible in his manner a certain roughness and want of respect very different from that he had usually adopted towards him . 
`` Well , how are you , Mr. Wyndham ? '' 
said he . 
said Claude , who , even in his misfortune , had a heart open to those of others . 
said Claude . 
`` Yes -- and with that -- a -- '' -LRB- he looked around as if to assure himself that his formidable foe could not hear him -RRB- `` infamous -- profligate Elkington . 
said Claude ; `` what black-hearted villany ! '' 
`` I think , moreover , that her mother was -- a -- a -- privy to her flight , sir ; I -- she -- '' he drew out his handkerchief , and wept a few moments in silence . 
`` Indeed , this pains as much as it surprises me , '' said Claude . 
I disinherit her -- I disown her ; and as for her mother -- '' This intelligence greatly astonished Claude , and he sympathized deeply with the bereaved father . 
Claude , although chilled by this cold and careless air , which he did not expect , related to him his plan to procure security and teach English . 
Claude started . 
`` Mr. Digby , '' said Claude , `` I will be frank with you . 
`` No , '' said Claude , `` it is not requisite ; the service I ask of you is not one which requires consideration . 
I hope , with all my heart , you 'll get out of your difficulty , '' he continued , shaking very heartily the hand which Claude did not refuse ; `` I do , Wyndham , upon my soul I do . 
asked Claude . 
The next morning but one Claude was again disturbed by the same unusual sound of heavy feet at an early hour . 
He addressed himself once more to his little keyhole . 
A vague suspicion arose in his mind that some pestilence had broken out among the prisoners . 
When his attendant came in again , he asked him if it were so . 
asked Claude . 
He led the way as he spoke , and Claude again entered the room from which he had escaped with so much pleasure . 
He was , as the man had said , too ill to be removed to the hospital ; and they had not yet come to arrange what ought to be done with the others . 
On approaching the patient , Claude found him very low . 
His head lay in an uneasy position , the pillow having fallen aside . 
Claude shook and replaced it . 
A draught of a cooling nature was standing beyond his reach on the floor . 
Claude handed it to him according to the directions . 
He seemed refreshed by it , and turned his eyes gratefully upon his benefactor . 
he said , with a faint , difficult voice . 
Claude knelt , and read a prayer selected for the bed of the dying . 
Claude gazed upon his face for several minutes . 
He closed the eyes . 
said Claude . 
He thought the scarce parted spirit heard him as it left the body . 
As he descended again to his own room , the poor fellows around bowed to him respectfully . 
Some of them blessed him . 
It was a simple tribute to goodness and courage , and he felt how much more brave as well as rational it was to turn even from the grossest insult with patience , and to risk life only in the cause of humanity and virtue . 
In the afternoon the turnkey presented him a bill for dinners of five thalers , stating that he had no more cash on hand , and the restaurateur would supply no more till he was paid . 
Claude 's heart beat and his hand actually trembled as he perceived that the man had brought an answer . 
Claude looked at the poor menial . 
There was kindness in his eye , and his face wore the expression of humanity and commiseration , which , through its rough and not over clean features , made it look even beautiful . 
`` Thank you , '' said he ; `` I am really greatly obliged to you . '' 
`` Well , let us see , '' said Claude . 
said Claude , `` I thought so . 
I -- I -- '' He bent his head upon the table . 
Long confinement had made him nervous and hysterical . 
He did not shed a tear , but he grew pale and cold as the thought of the wide streets -- the moving crowds -- the fresh , sunshiny air -- the deep , cool woods -- the sky -- the streams -- and all the bright outward world , passed like a vivid panorama through his imagination . 
`` I thought -- '' cried Claude , `` I was suresomething had kept you . '' 
asked Claude , lifting his face . 
You are scarcely recognisable ; '' and he gazed at his always handsome face , but which now , by confinement and reflection , had acquired a delicacy , a transparency , and an expression of intellect and refinement rarely seen in a countenance at the same time so firm and manly . 
He had never before , indeed , remarked how extremely handsome Claude was . 
His features were so finely formed -- his brows pencilled so definitely -- his eyes so large and full of soul -- and his mouth cut as if by the hand of a sculptor , all showing through a complexion which might have been envied by a woman . 
said Claude . 
said Claude . 
`` I can teach English , '' said Claude . 
`` Even I. '' `` You -- the elegant -- the flattered -- the admired Claude Wyndham -- '' `` Dear Lavalle , your spirits run away with you . 
As Claude looked around upon the naked walls , every crack of which he knew , every web of which he had watched for hours and weeks , he almost feared the last scene had been a dream , so bright , dazzling , and even painful was the sudden prospect of freedom . 
There was everything that could tempt his palate : two or three kinds of choice wines -- segars -- silver covers -- clean tablecloths and napkins . 
Claude made him sit down with him and share the welcome feast . 
At the request of Claude , the remains of the feast -- and they were ample -- were conveyed up stairs to his quondam companions ; and in a quarter of an hour the dishes and bottles were brought down in a state which the honest commissioner declared would save the restaurateur the trouble of washing . 
Claude mounted into the saddle with the feeling of a monarch who is about to return to a kingdom he has saved , at the head of an army he has led to victory . 
His sensations on riding through the town -- on feeling himself again amid moving crowds -- on passing the old Schloss -- on reaching the Brandenbourg gate , and pushing his horse to a full gallop along the broad , fragrant avenues of the wood , we shall leave to the imagination of the reader ; hoping that he may , if possible , often enjoy a pleasure as delightful , without purchasing it with pains as disagreeable as those our hero had suffered . 
Lavallehad directed his servant to appoint a meeting with Claude , as soon as he should have finished his ride , at his own lodgings . 
On arriving there as the cool afternoon shadows began to descend upon the earth , he found the groom waiting for the horse ; and he understood the delicacy which had induced Lavalle to leave him the first few hours of his freedom to his own reflections , or rather sensations . 
Of Kühl Lavalle could state nothing , except that very probably he was ignorant of the fact that Claude was confined . 
Claude positively refused to accept of the money as a loan , or that he might advance it to Carolan , but that he would wait till he had earned it by his own labour . 
He had no hope of being able to resume his station in society , and he determined to accommodate himself at once to the new one to which Providence had destined him . 
He avoided making any inquiry of Ida , and Lavalle did not touch upon that subject , thinking , perhaps , that he had already said more than he had a right to in the hurry of his joy . 
He promised Claude a class of five every evening , at a thaler an hour ; and five at separate hours during the day , also at a thaler , making ten thalers a day , or sixty thalers a week ; a princely income for a poor professor of languages ; but Lavalle was an able patron , and put a heart into his undertakings which did not allow them to fail . 
The next morning , accordingly , Claude found a single plain room , kept by a poor old widow lady , who agreed to board , as well as lodge him , at a moderate price . 
Mr. Kühl had heard nothing of Claude ; and concluding , from his nonappearance , that he had left town for the summer , he made no inquiries after him . 
He was shocked to learn of his vicissitudes , and delighted to be able to render him any assistance . 
His whole family entered into his plan , and agreed to become pupils in English ; and Claude soon found himself completely established in his new vocation , with the most pleasing prospects of success . 
His room was plain , but , after his period of probation in the prison , truly comfortable . 
The good woman supplied his meals in the house ; but finding that it would be more convenient for her , as well as less expensive for himself , he offered to eat at the same table with her , and he requested her to make no change in her usual fare , except in the addition of the quantity necessary for another person . 
Poor Claude was now , from necessity , excluded from the society where he had before been received with so much attention ; and , had this not been the case , he would by no means have sought it . 
There were not wanting several -- and they the most cultivated and distinguished people -- whom , had a selection been in his power , he would , from the first , have chosen for his friends ; who seemed to take a kind of interest in him , inspired partly by his history as recounted by Lavalle , and partly by his personal manners and character . 
This threw a new sympathy around Claude , and produced another curious effect . 
Indeed , anything would have been credited of Elkington ; and now the attempts upon Claude 's life were laid to his charge . 
It had been before stated in the journals -- but Claude , in his prison , knew nothing of it -- that the death of the Earl of Beverly had been announced pematurely . 
Under these circumstances , Claude began to be regarded as at least an honest man , and a man of principle . 
All who had dealings with him acknowledged even that , when they were not paid , he had made every possible sacrifice to satisfy their demands . 
His very presence in the streets , where he might be occasionally seen passing to and from the various houses of his pupils , was an answer to the principal charges against him . 
His hard labour -- his self-deprivation of all the luxuries and amusements of life -- the simple and even rude dress which he now wore , if without pride , at least without shame -- and the constant friendship and praises of Lavalle , were all in his favour . 
One refers to the illness of a little boy , the son of the poor old lady with whom Claude boarded , and who , being ill of a contagious disorder , was attended in person by Claude , at the peril of his life and against the warnings of the physician . 
The poor little fellow , notwithstanding this service , died ; and a part of Claude 's earnings were appropriated to paying the mournful expenses attending the committal of his sweet little body to the earth . 
Claude himself was not in the habit of making his own acts the topic of conversation , and therefore this affair was never known till the doctor one day , on finding that Claude had employed a more eminent physician , let it out in revenge , and to ruin his character as a man of sense . 
She grew so reserved and cool to Mr. Wyndham , that that young gentleman , entirely engaged with his grammars and dictionary , concluded she had taken offence against him . 
With a simplicity rather violent in a youth who , however fond of rural beauty , had not spent allhis life in the country , he addressed old Mr. Kühl upon the subject , and was made to open his very interesting eyes wider than he had done for some time by a frank explanation of the sudden cause from Kühl , and an offer of a furnished house in the Linden , near the Thiergarten -- a banker would hold payable to his order the sum of 100,000 thalers , Prussian money -- and the young lady herself , with a pair of eyes as full of tenderness as a star is of light ; and all these on no more difficult a condition than the utterance of the little monosyllable `` Yes . '' 
Claude was astonished at the proposal of this offer , but his astonishment was not greater than that of Mr. Kühl upon hearing him respectfully but firmly decline it . 
`` My esteemed friend , '' said Claude , with a delicacy and tact which his kind patron perfectly understood and deeply felt , `` I can never refuse what the young lady has herself never offered , and perhaps would not sanction ; but I may tell you , in confidence , that long before I knew you -- I -- I -- '' `` Ah , keh ! '' 
`` I may add , '' said Claude , `` that even when I commenced with your family , their knowledge of English was so good that they scarcely required my services ; and now they are almost in a state to teach it themselves . 
The manuscript goes on to say , that for a period Claude continued his visits to the house , but they gradually grew fewer and farther between , and at length entirely ceased . 
He lived almost on the bounty of Claude . 
His manner was strange and unsocial . 
He exhibited no gratitude for the favours he had received and was daily receiving ; but demanded more money as if of his banker . 
Claude tried to sooth him into some kind of companionship , but his efforts were fruitless . 
He was taciturn and gloomy in society . 
When they met in the street , this singular being often avoided him . 
In all cases of want , however , he did not hesitate to seek him and solicit his aid , and to coolly apply the gratuity to luxuries which the giver denied to himself . 
Claude at length perceived that he was not , after all , an object of real merit , and one day he frankly refused to give him money . 
His demeanour on the occasion was cold , ungrateful , and mean . 
He at first begged , and then knelt down and implored for a few thalers . 
Disgusted and astonished , Claude refused positively , and told him to seek elsewhere his living hereafter . 
He offered to exert himself , if he wished , to procure him scholars , but not to give him the means of living in idleness and intemperance . 
He told him he had just enough to pay his debts , and that he was now about to pay Carolan . 
`` Be it so , '' said Claude . 
said Claude , sternly . 
`` Rossi , '' said Claude , `` what madness is this ? 
He stamped his foot fiercely . 
His features were pale and haggard , his eye flashed with a fearful expression , and he withdrew , slamming the door violently after him . 
This conduct confirmed a suspicion , which had glanced across Claude 's mind before , that the poor being had moments of insanity , and to that he ascribed the vague threats which he uttered ; but whether they were directed against himself or Ida , he could not tell . 
At length , however , the money was in his hand to pay the demand of Carolan , who , through his lawyer , had demanded the highest rate of interest , and all the costs of the suit and his imprisonment . 
He accordingly met the lawyer and paid the judgment . 
It was on a pleasant morning in the latter part of the summer that he set off to demand a personal interview with Carolan , the last , richest , and hardest of his creditors . 
It was his intention to ask of Carolan a retraction of the suspicions he had expressed against him . 
He went , therefore , to his magnificent palace , from which he was now excluded as an inferior being . 
He was much altered by the constant labours , events , and feelings of the last few months . 
His health was enfeebled . 
His cheeks were pale and thin , and his once smooth face showed lines of care and sorrow . 
Poverty , which did not break his spirit , had worn upon his body . 
The thought of debthad caused him many a bitter day and sleepless night . 
It seemed even as if he were sinking gradually into the grave ; a fact of which , by the sadness on his brow , he might have been conscious . 
His clothes , too , were poor and faded . 
The money necessary to dress himself better , he had , even from his slender earnings , bestowed on Rossi , or the little boy who had perished from the earth like an early flower , and whom he had ardently loved . 
He had sent some , also , to his banker , to be paid to Mrs. Denham , without receiving any answer from or news of her ; and the resolution to pay all his debts before Carolan 's demand had obliged him to spend nothing on his own person . 
As he approached the palace of Carolan there was about it an air of grandeur which contrasted singularly with his own humble sphere . 
As he entered the hall , the servants did not move from their careless attitudes -- the very men who once , at the sight of him , sprung up with the violent respect they were taught to pay alone to the rich and great . 
Cards were an expense he had long laid aside , and he had written his name on a piece of paper . 
`` Do me the favour to take my name in , '' said Claude . 
Claude 's heart felt an old twinge of a malady which he had striven hard to overcome . 
Claude did not move either to conceal or reveal himself , but he perceived at once she did not see him , and was not aware that any one was present . 
She was not at all the same careless and happy girl whom he had seen in the portrait . 
Yet , as he gazed again , with a rapture that almost suspended his being , he thought her more beautiful than ever . 
Claude could not wholly exclude the idea that the changes in her face might have been occasioned partly by him . 
The fervour of his own love rose again in his bosom ; and to have thrown himself at her feet , and said one farewell , he would have consented to die the same hour . 
But he restrained himself . 
He remembered his promise , his duty , and her happiness , and he sat silent . 
The flower , with a number of others , stood on a large stand between her and himself , and had hitherto prevented her seeing him . 
As she advanced , he rose . 
His eyes were bent to the ground , his face was pale . 
He scarcely knew whether he felt more pain or pleasure , and he could not repress or hide his agitation . 
She knew him instantly ; but at the sight of him -- his pale , thin face , his mean clothes , his dusty boots , and all the apparel of poverty -- a half-uttered shriek and shudder escaped her , and she sank into a chair covering her face with her hands . 
it was love -- ingenuous , artless love -- unused to the womanly power of concealment ; and the deep crimson which succeeded the pallor of her forehead and neck , and all that those trembling and beautiful hands sought in vain to hide , taught her as well as him , that , without words , the sacred secret of her soul was betrayed . 
It seems that , with the innate dignity and purity of her nature , she recovered her self-possession almost instantly , for she rose and said , extending her hand frankly , `` Mr. Wyndham -- you have been so long absent -- you -- you are so greatly altered -- that the sight of you startled me . '' 
`` Let me hope , '' said Claude , and once more she listened to the tones of a voice so much loved , so long unheard , and now touched with a tremour that betrayed irresistible agitation , `` that neither my absence , nor anything that has occurred during it , has deprived me of the -- esteem -- of -- of -- so valued a friend . '' 
`` Indeed , Mr. Wyndham , I should do myself but poor justice if I did not say how clearly I have perceived the propriety of your conduct , and how little I have shared the errors of others respecting you . '' 
`` You make me happy , '' said Claude ; and with a deeper fervour , which he could not repress , and perhaps was not aware of , he added , `` The approbation of such as you is all I dare hope ; and yours -- is all I desire . '' 
`` It is a very dangerous journey , '' said Claude . 
said Claude . 
`` I wish you all happiness , Mr. Wyndham . '' 
This was the weak moment which Claude had scarcely the strength to resist . 
He took the hand extended to him . 
He attempted to speak , but after the first word his utterance failed . 
To have indicated by the slightest pressure of that hand the feelings of his bosom -- to have expressed with a gesture what words refused to utter -- to have raised those soft fingers to his lips , as they yet lingered in his , were the impulses of his soul . 
But he was one of those men who had learned to govern himself , to make sacrifices , to resist impulses , and to act with honour in all the most minute and secret affairs of life . 
He dropped the hand almost coldly ; but all his prudence could not prevent the thought which swelled his heart from finding utterance , `` Is it for ever -- ? '' 
Her eyes met his , and she replied , `` It is for ever . '' 
She was gone ; and he rose and hastily dashed the drops from his eyes , to meet the conceited and unrelenting father of the being whom he now loved with more fervour than ever , and who was to bless his eyes no more . 
`` Well , sir , '' said Carolan , sitting down by a table , without asking his visiter to follow his example , `` what procures me the honour of this visit ? '' 
`` Count Carolan , '' said Claude , advancing quietly , and even respectfully , to the table , for he had now not even the desire to retaliate the rudeness of this weak man , `` I have come to state to you that the sum for which you imprisoned me is paid . '' 
`` Adieu , sir , '' said Claude ; `` if I thought you capable of distinguishing between right and wrong , I would ask you to reflect hereafter that you have refused to do justice to the character which you have proofs is free from reproach , and that you have not thought it unworthy of your courage to insult a person who mildly claimed your good opinion , and whom you know to be without the defence usually possessed by gentlemen under the same circumstances . '' 
said the count , his pompous manner leaving him entirely ; and they both hastened out , Claude as much agitated as he , for he thought he recognised the voice which had uttered the scream as Ida 's . 
`` Rossi , '' said Claude , advancing upon him cautiously , while Carolan stood petrified in motionless despair . 
`` Rossi , my kind friend , '' said Claude , in a soothing voice , but one which trembled with horror , lest , ere he could succeed in grasping him , he might fire upon the sweet girl , upon whose bloody sacrifice he seemed so determined . 
`` Keep his attention this way , '' said Claude to Carolan , in a low tone , `` and I will secure him ! '' 
Here you have not the courage to look at me , you foul madman , '' he continued . 
With the shrewdness of a madman , he suspected a connivance , and he turned to look for Claude . 
He perceived him now fairly in the middle of the floor , alone , and completely between him and Ida . 
At this sight his fury seemed lashed into new delirium . 
He stamped his foot and exclaimed , `` Stand aside ! 
Claude stood back before Ida . 
Had he advanced to seize him , he could have fired at her by changing his position . 
His only hope was to shield her with his person , even if it could be done only by receiving the ball in his own body . 
He placed himself , therefore , before her in such a way as to protect her entirely from danger . 
no , no -- '' But , as she spoke , Rossi fired , and the ball lodged in the wall within an inch of Claude 's head . 
howled the maniac again , advancing with the other pistol drawn , and gnashing his teeth with fiendish rage ; but Claude stood firm , lifted his tall figure so as to shield completely the form of Ida , and fixed his eye steadily on his adversary , who advanced so near as to make the destruction of one of his intended victims almost certain . 
He had approached to within two or three yards , and was in the act of pulling the trigger , when Ida fainted and fell heavily upon Claude 's arm , who stamped his foot suddenly , and exclaimed , `` Fire , '' and at the same time rushed forward with his burden in such a way as to throw the maniac from his aim . 
He started , and at the same moment the pistol was discharged . 
Claude committed the senseless form of the fair girl he had saved at such imminent risk to the arms of her trembling father ; who , as often happens with men of feeble understanding , had been so bewildered and stunned by the greatness of the danger , that , whatever might have been his courage , he did not know what to do . 
Claude was the object of universal admiration . 
In the dangerous crisis in which he found himself , he had exhibited a self-possession and courage which surprised everybody , and which alone had saved the life of Ida . 
That he had ever been suspected of cowardicewas now a matter of astonishment ; and it was acceded that few men would have so calmly faced almost certain death . 
The idea that he had suffered a blow rather than fight a duel now received a kind of interest , which raised him to a rank above that of a merely brave man . 
Idahad no sooner been safely conveyed to her apartment , than Carolan returned to seek Claude , with an embarrassment which he could scarcely conceal . 
He had not an understanding sufficiently enlarged to teach him how to act on such an occasion ; and the dictates of his heart , however naturally good , had so long been subservient to his vanity , that it had ceased to serve him as a useful guide . 
He thanked the preserver of his daughter with a gratitude which was not free from condescension ; and , in acknowledging the debt , he showed that he wished it had not been incurred . 
He had neither learned to forgive nor to ask forgiveness ; graces which belong only to sense and feeling . 
On the day after this event Ida had quite recovered from the effects of her fright , and Carolan sent a servant to Claude 's humble lodging to say she would be happy to see and thank her preserver . 
Claude was carefully informed that the meeting was at the request of the count himself . 
My daughter is weak , and I trust you will not trespass too much -- '' `` Were it left to my choice , '' said Claude , `` I should prefer not to oppress her with the useless task of returning thanks , which you consider so requisite . '' 
His brow cleared up . 
It would afford me pleasure to ask you to drive with me to-day ; but Prince L -- has begged to come , and -- '' `` It would be impossible for me to avail myself of your politeness , '' said Claude , his feelings towards the daughter scarcely enabling him to preserve a decent exterior of respect before the father . 
`` Then , Mr. Wyndham , adieu ; and if , as I trust I may hope , you deem my friendship worth accepting '' -- he held out his fore finger for Claude to shake -- `` it may be a pleasure for you to know that you have it . 
Claude declined the offer , bowed , and , without receiving the fore finger so condescendingly offered , took his leave . 
In the mean time , the town rang with the gallantry of the action he had performed , and he suddenly became a kind of lion . 
This ill suited his simple habits , and he withdrew from attentions which he did not greatly value , and could not accept without embarrassment from his limited pecuniary means . 
Poor Rossi had been taken from Carolan 's to the asylum , where , in a week , although everything possible was done for him , and Claude visited him every day , he died . 
With him a strange life was closed -- endured without profit to himself or others -- a mind undisciplined -- a heart not cultivated properly -- passions without restraint or religion to govern them . 
His weak understanding had been rendered weaker by the want of education and moral principle ; and to such a being the world is so full of dangers and pains -- to be incurred without support , or endured without recompense -- that even pity could scarcely sigh over his early grave . 
It was observed , in his last ravings , that the prominent incident in his imagination was the blow he had received from Elkington . 
He fancied it had left a festering spot upon his forehead -- that the disgrace was one which could be washed out , not by a life of equal courage and simple virtue , but by revenging himself on Elkington , either by the sacrifice of himself or some one dear to him . 
Claude witnessed his closing scene with many serious reflections ; and he was startled to remember what similar thoughts of blind revenge and reckless passion had filled his own mind the night when he himself had been struck by Elkington . 
Itwas a curious coincidence in this passage of the life of Wyndham , that Rossi was scarcely dead when a message from Carl , his quondam domestic , earnestly prayed his presence at the criminal prison , where , confined after having been convicted of murder , he was awaiting execution . 
Absorbed in other affairs , and partly in consequence of the silence and privacy with which such matters are conducted in Prussia , Claude had received no intelligence of this till a note from Carl made him acquainted with his dreadful situation . 
`` It is so good of monsieur to come , '' said he , on seeing Claude . 
`` I grant it , most sincerely , '' said Claude . 
asked Claude . 
said Claude , shocked almost beyond the power of speech by this scene . 
`` I promise , '' said Claude ; `` and , in the mean time , beg you will let me do all that is possible to alleviate your situation . '' 
He turned pale , and added , `` Ah , Mr. Wyndham , had I but been an honest man , and served you faithfully , how different would now be my situation ! '' 
A priest here came in ; and , as Claude withdrew , the poor fellow clasped his hand and kissed it earnestly . 
Claude left the prison much impressed in favour of Carl , who seemed to have been unprincipled more from the want of reflection than innate hardness of heart . 
According to his promise , Claude resolved to be present . 
It was on a magnificent day in July that he went forth , at three o'clock in the morning , to behold the unnatural ceremony of depriving a human being of that life which has been bestowed by the hand of God . 
Half an hour 's walk , through a multitude every instant growing more dense , on the whole well behaved , and composed in a considerable proportion of women and children , brought Claude through the gate and along one of the suburbs to a road leading into a vast , open field of heavy sand , in a corner of which a black mass of human beings -- swarming like a cluster of bees around three dark , massive columns of brick , placed in the form of a triangle , immediately behind a broad platform , also built of brick , and surrounded by an iron balustrade -- announced the fatal point of attraction . 
On either side of the scaffold , at the distance of fifty or sixty yards , were several small , natural elevations of ground , on one of which , and fronting the dreadful stage where the dire act was so soon to be performed , Claude took his stand . 
He could perceive a few paces from him , and at the foot of the scaffold , a newly-dug grave . 
In a short time the increasing thousands had surrounded him , and in another half hour his eye , wherever it wandered , met nothing but the dense masses of human beings , packed close as in a theatre . 
It seemed almost a mockery to Claude , that all this formidable array of force -- these stern troops -- these glittering and bristling arms -- these trampling horses -- should be gathered together on account of one helpless , trembling , feeble creature , bound , and opposing against the appalling preparations only his misery , his weakness , his humble prayer , his ghastly and terror-stricken face . 
He bore on his arm a basket , and sprinkled from it many handfuls of wet sand or sawdust . 
He descended , and another mounted the next moment , bearing a heavy burden , which he at length deposited . 
He who placed it was smoking a segar . 
He caught Claude 's eye as he passed , and kissed his hand to him . 
His face was turned towards Claude , whose whole system thrilled with unspeakable horror at the thoughts of his sensations in that tremendous moment . 
Claude looked around on the scene so fair and beautiful . 
The morning sun mounting up the east , pouring gladness and abundance on so many millions of human beings -- the bending sky -- the waving trees -- the distant city , whose roar could be heard rising on the summer air , and then at these vast crowds -- those dark columns -- that gray-headed giant leaning on his axe -- and this young man , in the fullness of life , health , and strength , about to be thrust by his fellow-beings into eternity . 
Even as he stood thus a moment committing himself to God , and taking his last look at the nature so bright , so soft , so fair , so happy , the breeze , full of freshness , and balm , and gladness , and perfume , came kissing the murmuring tree-tops , and lifted the hair from that doomed head ; the birds were warbling in the groves ; the flowers were blooming in the gardens ; the streams were gurgling through the wood ; and a flock of pigeons came floating down to the very top of the scaffold , and made a circle around it , their white breasts shining in the light , and then -- so near that the trembling victim might have heard the whirring of their wings , full of freedom and joy -- swept off again , and were lost in the sunshiny distance . 
Poor Claude would have followed Carolan into France had he possessed the pecuniary means ; but , alas ! 
the interest excited by his private affairs was merged in that of the general welfare . 
The most enthusiastic admirers of English abandoned their studies for thoughts of a much more serious kind , and Claude found himself destitute . 
His friends had disappeared . 
It was a dreadful year ; and as for Claude , in addition to all his apprehensions for Ida , he was often at a loss for means to support life . 
No one would lend money at such a period ; and , had there been lenders , he had no right to borrow what he saw no prospect of being able to repay . 
In the actual course of necessity , to prevent himself from starving , he had contracted a bill at a baker 's . 
He owed the baker one thaler . 
Claude could not pay it . 
His features were all , in a corresponding degree , large and uncouth . 
His eyes were round , green , and protuberant , and shaded by large shaggy brows . 
His nose was bloated , purple , and with hairs growing on the end . 
His mouth stretched from ear to ear , and his whole countenance , ploughed with time and debauchery , and Heaven knows what volcanic passions , looked like some ragged rock rent apart by a convulsion of nature . 
No smile ever softened those deeplyindented outlines , as no human feelings found their way into his long-hardened heart . 
His voice was hoarse , deep , and guttural ; and when he spoke , even on the most trivial occasions , he grew red in the face with choler . 
His head was perfectly white -- his limbs were swollen and gouty -- his feet resembled those of an elephant -- his hands were full of knots like the gnarled branches of some immemorial oak , and he had a spirit as unbendable . 
He was worth , men said , 300,000 thalers , accumulated by grasping every cent . 
On finding Claude 's inability to pay , this curious old veteran , who perhaps might be regarded as something of a maniac in his way , sued him and obtained judgment , and took measures to cast him into prison . 
Claude went to him , in company with the sheriff 's officer who had arrested him , and endeavoured to soften his heart . 
The old man became furious at the sight of him . 
His face , always half purple , grew fiery with rage , and he swore he would have his thaler or his body . 
`` You are a scoundrel , '' said he , `` to rob me of my money . 
And Claude was thrown into the very prison -- the very room -- and with the very people who had formerly been his companions under the same circumstances , although with two or three ominous exceptions . 
In this position , Claude found himself at the lowest step of the ladder . 
He was a beggar -- a wretch -- a slave . 
He saw no other prospect than a year 's confinement . 
An unutterable anguish came cold and deadening over his heart as he turned his eyes about the room , and regarded the gloomy , pitiless walls which had enclosed him -- which were to shut him out from the world . 
As for soliciting aid , he knew no one among all his acquaintances to whom he could apply but St. Hillaire , Lavalle , and Madame Wharton . 
Claude opened and read . 
The first was as follows : `` At the request of the Marquis of E -- , and for his account , we hereby open a credit with you in favour of Mr. Claude Wyndham , for # 1000 sterling , say one thousand pounds sterling , which you will please to supply him with , as he may require the same , on his presenting to you this letter . 
I would repeat the sacred name , and I would repeat ever , to the Disposer of human events , my prayer of grateful thanks for being permitted to write myself -- your affectionate , The packet which accompanied this was , as stated by Madame Wharton -- whom , as well as Claude , we shall continue to call by her old name -- a full history of the circumstances which attended her marriage , her separation from her husband , her subsequent life , the loss and apparent death of her child , with divers other particulars , many of which the reader is already acquainted with . 
It is to be regretted that the space allotted to our history will not permit us to give this letter , embracing , as it did , not only the past adventures of the lady -- who now showed herself as able to bear prosperity as she had been to bear adversity -- but the circumstances which first awakened her attention respecting Claude -- her reveries , her suspicions , her hopes , and , lastly , her convictions , that the singular interest she had taken in the stranger who bore so remarkable a resemblance to her husband , from the first moment she saw him , was not merely accidental . 
It informs us of a fact , that at the interview between Lady Beverly and Elkington , where this rash and wicked person , trained by the habitual indulgence of his passions , dared to strike even a woman -- and that woman his mother , and where all that Lady Beverly knew of her history was revealed ; it informs us that Carl , who , on having been dismissed by Claude , had been taken into the employ of Elkington , and who was all the time ensconced under the bed between two large portmanteaux , thus possessed himself of the whole history ; and , having already read all Claude 's letters , journals , & c. , his active mind commenced examining the subject as one worthy of his powers ; and at length , by a coincidence which would appear perfectly natural had we time to explain it , alighted upon the traces of Madame Wharton as being one of the characters in this game of blind-man 's - buff . 
Thinking he might make a good affair of it , he communicated to Madame Wharton all he knew ; which so perfectly accorded with the thousand indications she had herself discovered , that she set off for London to institute inquiries and take the necessary measures . 
In this she had been baffled for a long time , occasioning much delay ; but at length , by great sagacity and prudence , and the aid of several distinguished auxiliaries , of whom the Marquis of E -- was one -- by recovering from the heirs of Lord Perceval many of his private memoranda upon the history of Claude , which , from his likeness to his father , Lord Perceval had also suspected -- in short , with Carl 's evidence , and by an appeal to the young noble , Lord -- , who had , with Lady Beverly , been one of the instruments of her ruin , and who was now a gouty , bloated , bed-ridden old man , willing to purchase by any confession an exemption from the consequences which the revival of his youthful `` follies '' would bring upon him -- in short , the whole history was made clear , that Lord Elkington and Lady Beverly had been all the while absent from London , the latter being too ill to travel ; that it wanted but the recovery of the earl to an hour 's use of his senses to procure his recognition of an innocent wife and a lost son , both worthy of him . 
But this was not to be gratified ; for he had no sooner , in presence of the Marquis of E -- and several others of his ancient friends , freely and legally completed the arrangements necessary to the succession of Claude , and exchanged with his devoted wife a pardon which strewed the dismal path of death with roses , than the remorseless tyrant , who could wait no longer , suddenly laid his cold hand upon him ; and Madame Wharton trembled to perceive that she had recovered the treasure so priceless and so long lost , only to behold it -- for such is human joy -- slip again and for ever from her grasp . 
Claude had not finished studying this deeply-interesting letter when the order arrived for his release . 
`` Have the prisoners all assembled at once , '' said Claude , `` and ascertain the aggregate amount of their debts . '' 
`` Pay them all , '' said Claude , `` and give every man a five thaler note . 
Some stood stupified -- some danced , leaped about , and shouted like madmen -- some ran up to him , knelt , and kissed the hem of his coat -- some broke out into fierce exclamations of delight , mingled with oaths -- and one stood perfectly still , betraying his emotion only by his silent tears . 
The poor fellow last alluded to , whose eyes filled with tears of gratitude and joy , Claude found had been imprisoned for one thaler the day before . 
He had left a sick , motherless child at home , and had gone out to buy medicine , when his creditor laid hands on him , and , deaf to every prayer and explanation , threw him into prison . 
As one in an enchanting dream , Claude took up his worn hat and prepared to bid adieu for ever to this dismal abode . 
As he reached the lower corridor , prisoners , turnkeys , commissioners , gens d'armes , were all ranged on either side to see him pass . 
Lost in astonishment , bewildered , and incredulous , and fearing each moment to awake and find around him the naked and blackened walls of a loathsome prison , which were to bury him , perhaps for life , from the blessed light of nature , Claude reached his hotel , ordered a warm bath , some linen , and his old tailor . 
He found that James had chosen the most fashionable hotel in the town , and selected the best apartments in it . 
Claude started -- was he speaking of him ? 
said Claude , with eager pleasure . 
And with a good deal of noise and in a perturbation of delight , hastening to him and embracing him with the liveliest marks of friendship , in rushed Thomson . 
`` My dear Wyndham ! 
`` Pour him out a glass of wine , James , '' said Claude , coldly . 
Thomson took it and drank it ; but all its foaming inspiration could not counteract the effect of the cold courtesy with which Claude received him . 
`` Of a kind , '' said Claude , `` which will prevent my enjoying the society of Mr. Thomson any longer ; therefore I shall make no apology for depriving myself of it . 
Claude had left orders to be out . 
As each card was brought in upon a silver salver , by a white-gloved domestic , to him who yesterday was on the point of starving in a jail for a thaler ! 
Claude saw , with that quiet contempt which the conduct of many people is calculated to inspire for human nature , that they who had been most marked in their slights of him in the moment of his downfall , and who had not recognised him even when he spoke to them , were now among the first to call ; but he saw also , with a bounding heart , the names of many whom he sincerely esteemed and loved , and who had been the same to him in all things , whether prosperity shone on him , or dark misfortune lowered around his head . 
He was now on an eminence whence he could choose his friends ; and he resolved , while he was courteous to all , and while he laid aside every thought of relaliation against those who had exposed their meanness and folly -LRB- except , indeed , individuals who , like Thomson , had been offensive by their impertinence -RRB- , that he would cherish with sincerity those gentle and refined hearts whose sweetness and purity had been tasted when they could never expect any return . 
`` My good James , '' said Claude , `` I may confide to you the secret that a valued friend is almost alone and defenceless in the midst of these dangers , which you depict , I do not doubt , without exaggeration . 
`` Certainly , '' said Claude ; `` I shall go alone and immediately . '' 
Claude 's courage once established , as it had been by his brave deportment in the affair of Rossi and Ida , his previous forbearance was found sublime ; and every one longed to greet him , and to repair by their attentions their former neglect . 
Itwas on the fifth of August , in the year 1792 , that Claude entered Paris . 
Some plain clothes , such as were worn by the most violent republicans of France , were procured for Claude ; and it was determined -- for his accent would have scarcely betrayed the foreigner -- that he should pass for a Frenchman at any risk , and one fully infected with the revolutionary views . 
Amid the heavy , grotesque , interminable masses through which the narrow streets open on every side , in lines straight , circular , serpentine , accustomed for some days to silent hills , open plains , and green and tranquil woods , Claude , although perfectly acquainted with Paris , felt himself a little bewildered . 
It was at once apparent to Claude , that some convulsion either had happened or was about to take place , for the population presented that appearance observable when any violent shock passes over a large town , causing a kind of chymical separation of the constituent parts of society -- the reputable classes disappearing to the shelter of their own houses , while the profligate and abandoned appear from their dark lurking-places in the light of day . 
`` I wish to see Monsieur le Comte de la Tour , '' said Claude to the porter . 
Claude requested to speak at once with the count , and in private . 
He was admitted , gave his letter , and related the object of his visit . 
`` My friend , '' said La Tour , when he had finished , `` have you any idea of the things which are going on here just now ? '' 
`` I see something dreadful is going to happen , '' said Claude , `` but I am determined not to turn back . '' 
demanded Claude . 
said Claude . 
`` You can not mean -- '' said Claude . 
`` I have faced one lunatic , '' said Claude , quietly , `` and I will not shrink from another . 
said Claude , greatly alarmed for the success of his enterprise . 
cried Claude . 
and he was about to throw up the window . 
La Tour drew him forcibly back . 
exclaimed Claude . 
demanded Claude . 
`` No , '' said Claude ; `` what I have seen only makes me more determined not to abandon my friends . '' 
`` Hark -- in your ear -- '' and even La Tour turned pale as he leaned his head forward and whispered , `` The scaffold , mon cher ! '' 
Claude started , the blood curdling in his veins with astonishment and horror . 
said he , sternly , `` or you are trifling with my fears . '' 
said Claude , sadly but firmly , `` leave those I most love to the scaffold?Turn from them in the last hour of deadly danger ? 
Claude left La Tour , scarcely able to reconcile the heartless levity of his conversation with the real services he had offered , and at the same time resolving to adopt such part of his counsel as related to his residence in Paris . 
He walked with hasty steps towards the garden of the Tuileries , resolving the best means of announcing his presence to Ida , and of taking measures for the escape of herself and father -- a task hopeless to all but such a lover as he . 
Here again obscenity appeared a favourite weapon ; and the gross insults directed against a female figure which appeared a moment at a window , and was generally believed to be Marie Antoinette , but which Claude 's high beating heart fancied the beloved object of his search , caused the lady , whoever she might be , to withdraw immediately . 
Claude regarded this new advocate of national rights with interest . 
His appearance obviously announced an extraordinary person . 
He was of a gigantic stature , a heavy , burly , and ferocious countenance , a voice of singular depth and power , and altogether a striking representative and leader of a rabble , who apparently knew him , and regarded his wild and reckless style of eloquence with great admiration . 
Claude 's heart sunk in his bosom as he heard this high prophet of wo , and beheld the fearful power with which he lashed the passions of his auditors . 
Claude did not join this rabble in their flight , but remained , and was presently overtaken by a small company . 
`` They are not my companions , sir , '' said Claude ; `` my friends lie within yonder walls ; and I 'll make it worth your trouble if you 'll help me to gain entrance into the chateau . '' 
I will will give you any sum to carry a letter for me , '' said Claude . 
And , indeed , the earnestness and agitation of Claude 's looks and gestures went far to sanction this opinion , which soon received a still stronger confirmation . 
when Claude , with an irresistible impulse to save at any risk the shedding of human blood in cold cruelty , stepped actually before the levelled muskets , and entreated the amazed soldier to forbear . 
`` No , I do not know him , '' replied Claude ; `` but I think your position requires prudence , and no blood should be spilled on the king 's side . 
`` My name can be of little interest to you , monsieur , '' said Claude , coolly . 
The stranger turned on his heel and walked hastily away . 
Allthe efforts of Claude to gain an entrance into the chateau , or to obtain any communication with the inhabitants of it , were in vain . 
He was obliged to use the utmost caution in making the endeavour , and he more than once subjected himself to serious danger in the attempt . 
It was on the afternoon before the memorable 10th of August , that , having snatched a hasty meal , and equipped himself , as every one else had done , with pistols and a sabre , Claude left his lodging with the full determination to make his way to the chateau , and to be first in the attack which , it was understood , was to be made upon it , so that , gaining entrance with the mob , he might seek and save Ida , if , indeed , she had not long since escaped from it . 
All his exertions could procure for him no other chance of admission . 
As he attempted to make his way towards the Tuileries , he found the streets thronged with crowds of the worst description . 
It was late in the day when he left his lodgings , and the shadows of night soon descended upon one of the most frightful scenes recorded by history . 
The uproar increased , and , with feelings which we shall not undertake to depict , he perceived the tide set towards the chateau . 
Suddenly a tremendous pressure , in which some of the more feeble were trampled to death around him , required him to exert all his strength to escape the same fate . 
He succeeded with difficulty in mounting the steps of a church , and it would be difficult to describe the emotions with which , from this eminence , he beheld approaching , with that kind of solemn grandeur which always attends the exhibition of immense power , an organized body of about thirty thousand persons , consisting of the most desperate men and dissolute and frantic women -- the mere refuse of human nature . 
The blended voices of so many thousands -- their irregular and terrible arms -- their garb of rags , filth , and desperate wretchedness -- their haggard and ferocious faces -- and the deep , hollow tramp with which those determined feet -- bent to the throne of their king -- kept time to the music , made a scene which would have appalled a heart less stout than Claude 's . 
Different indeed were the feelings and intentions which animated Claude from those which , perhaps with scarcely a single exception , inspired the dreadful masses of desperate beings around him , and deep was the horror and disgust with which he beheld their slow , but determined , portentous advance ; but he saw no other chance of effecting his purpose than joining their ranks , and accordingly he fell in , his drawn sabre in hand , and pursued his march . 
In the astonishment excited by this incident , Claude 's foot slipped , and he would have received , without being able to parry it , the descending stroke of this half-drunken pythoness , and fallen only to be trampled to death beneath the multitude , which no such trifle could an instant arrest in its course , when a third person extended his scythe so as to fend the thrust , and hastily , at the same time , reaching his hand , sustained him in a perpendicular position . 
He was , however , thus pressed out of the ranks , and , breathless and fatigued , he was obliged to rest among a group which , motionless itself , beheld this portentous tide flow by . 
The regiment from which he had been thus excluded passed on , and , unaccustomed as he was to such violent exercise , he was glad to stop a moment and recover breath . 
Claude -- his blood boiling , his mind greatly excited by the scenes he had passed through -- pressed his way on , resolved to reach the scene of the attack at any hazard , certain that , if these hellhounds forced admission into the royal residence , every member of the family would be instantly massacred , unless the friends of the king should have gathered around him , at this dark hour , in sufficient numbers to make a resistance , and should have foreseen the necessity of preparing in an adequate manner to defend their position . 
Had these requisite arrangements been made , Claude knew that every accession to the besieged would be of fearful importance , and that the fate of the contest might be turned even by a single arm . 
He pictured the unfortunate and excellent , but wavering , monarch and his beautiful queen awaiting in horror this appalling attack ; and Ida , pale with terror , calling perhaps on him for aid , which she little dreamed he had thus promptly determined to offer . 
Deeply did he yearn , during that midnight march amid the most remorseless and bloodthirsty wretches that ever gathered to a scene of carnage and crime , to be planted in front of the almost defenceless circle which they were hastening to attack . 
No tempest-tossed mariner ever sighed more eagerly for land , than he for the moment when he might throw himself before the king and her who was now trembling at his side , and when he might oppose even his single breast to this awful danger . 
He had been denounced as a coward for shrinking from doing what he deemed wrong , and he could be driven neither by anger nor false shame to violate his principle , and to break the law of man and God . 
Even while Claude reconnoitred them , a large body of the wildest rabble -- who had just forced the arsenal , and thus completely equipped themselves with arms -- approached in regular order , showing that they were acting under cool and able leaders . 
Claude had placed himself as near the front ranks as he could get -- a position for him of double peril ; for , while he thus exposed himself to the fire of the besieged , he ran the hazard of being cut down or shot by his own party the instant he should discover his intention of joining their victims . 
Suddenly a single musket fired from a window laid the man next to Claude dead beneath his feet . 
His ears were deafened -- his clothes blackened and burnt -- a ball had passed through his sleeve , and he had a slight cut upon the arm , which he only knew some time afterward by the sight of the flowing blood . 
Claude rushed to his side . 
The impulse which seized him was irresistible as madness . 
He fired , and the foremost of the assailants fell . 
It was the first time he had ever taken human life , and he experienced a thrill as the poor wretch tumbled back and the blood gushed from his head and nostrils ; but there was no compunction in his feelings , and the next assailant shared the same fate . 
The poor Swiss thus supported , escaped for the time at least ; but a cloud of smoke from a cannon discharged at their side , and a rush of the assailants into the grand hall , separated him from the person he had saved , luckily hid his interference from general notice , and enabled him to reach the interior of the palace . 
And now , with a trembling heart , he forced his way in at the head of the troops , as if he had been their leader . 
He cast his eyes around . 
He mounted the broad stairs -- he flew breathless through the gorgeous halls -- he sought in every chamber , with the expectation of beholding the royal circle surrounded by their last defenders , and ready to be slaughtered . 
He had made up his mind , in such a case , to fling himself into the midst of them , and share their fate , whatever it might be . 
At his heels were a thousand ruffians -- their drawn swords red and dripping -- their hoarse screams resounding `` the king!the king ! '' 
The intelligence was received with a storm of oaths and maledictions by all but Claude , who heard it with an exultation which almost deprived him of prudence . 
It was with difficulty he restrained himself from uttering a shout of triumph which would have betrayed him to his rough associates . 
He traversed the hall with steps winged with terror , and escaped through an opposite door . 
The poor youth , better acquainted than his pursuers with the localities of the chateau , succeeded in eluding their grasp till he descended into the lower apartments and offices of that huge edifice . 
Here he reached the royal kitchen , with the whole yelling crew at his heels . 
He sank exhausted to the floor , and was instantly seized . 
Claude turned to escape the sight of what he could not prevent , and , as he hastened away , he heard the plunge and sudden shriek of the desperate wretch , the crackling of the sparks and flames , and the hoarse yells of the barbarian executioners . 
A scream in an adjoining corridor , sounding above all the roar and tumult of the palace , now called his attention in a new direction ; and , with considerable surprise , he saw several females in the last state of terror , pursued by a rabble who threatened to sacrifice them as the poor Swiss had been sacrificed before . 
Of all the sensations which a human being can experience , perhaps that of Claude was the most singular mixture of delight and horror , on recognising in the uplifted face of the unhappy being the features of Ida . 
He advanced with the intention of striking dead the ruffian who still dragged his victim by the arm . 
But the habit of self-control here again came to his aid ; for , instead of cutting down the man , which would have been the signal for an instant slaughter of himself and those he wished to defend , he seized his throat with a giant 's grasp , and hurled him back against the wall . 
cried he , in a voice so stern that for a moment the wretch paused in fear . 
The wild scream which Ida uttered on recognising him , and the joy and confidence with which she clung to his arm and to his bosom , almost unnerved him for the crisis in which he found himself . 
and he lifted the scythe-blade which he held in his hand aloft in the air with gesticulations of fury . 
Claude drew a pistol silently but firmly . 
cried the wretch , and started forward to cut him down . 
Claude fired . 
For a moment the commanding attitude and stern voice of him who had so boldly interfered between the lion and his wrath , arrested the party . 
exclaimed Claude . 
`` Then I demand a guard for these miserable women , who are not worth your rage , '' said Claude . 
`` I demand a guard to take them to a place of safety , '' said Claude . 
`` Antoine '' -- he turned to one of the regular soldiers -- `` take twenty men and conduct these women to the next guardhouse . '' 
-LSB- 3 -RSB- The trembling Ida was rather borne than led by Claude , whose brain reeled with a joy too sweet to be certain , as he found himself under the protection of the guard , completely disentangled from the immense multitudes which now surrounded the palace , but which grew less dense at every step of their retreat , till they were far removed from the scene of action , and paused in the comparative safety of a distant and narrow street . 
Claude here conferred with the officer , who promised faithfully to take each one of his affrighted charge wherever they wished to go . 
For himself , he was in the neighbourhood of the section du Theatre Français . 
Bearing , therefore , her light form upon his arm , which thrilled beneath the beloved burden , he speedily reached his hotel , gained his room , and deposited her upon a sofa . 
A maid attended at his request . 
All that sensibility and delicacy could require or bestow , marked every moment of their interview , while they hastily interchanged such particulars as were most requisite to a mutual understanding of their present position and prospects , although Claude carefully avoided revealing the great change which had taken place in his fortune , and of which Ida knew nothing . 
That they should quit France instantly was of course desirable ; but Carolan was in prison , and Ida would not desert him . 
In vain Claude begged her to go herself to the frontier , with the means which he hoped to be able to supply for her journey , promising to remain , and do all in his power to procure the count 's liberation . 
`` Trust to me , '' said Claude . 
In this time , when so much prudence and courage were necessary , Claude appeared more calm and noble than Ida had ever seen him before . 
Even through the mean , torn , and dirty dress which he had assumed , his air was so free and commanding , his face so full of manly beauty , that , little knowing the change which had occurred in his condition , she innocently felt that her happiness depended on him , and that he was the only being who could ever possess her love . 
In the mean time , he placed a purse in Annette 's hands , requesting her to order everything necessary to the security and comfort of her young mistress ; and Annette was a femme de chambrewhose genius could have ministered to the wants of a princess , and surrounded her with such cares as only a French femme de chambrehad any idea of . 
Withthe deepest anxiety that had ever winged his steps , Claude left Ida to the charge of Annette , and flew again to La Tour for advice and assistance in the singular situation in which he now found himself . 
He was almost resolved upon flight himself ; but eyes were upon him , as he well knew , which would detect his first motion towards such a measure . 
He could but advise Claude to fly with his new companion , and to take his chance for getting out of France . 
As for Carolan , he assured him that the only consequences which would follow an attempt in his favour would be the arrest , and perhaps the destruction , of those who should make it . 
Disappointed in the succour -- which , indeed , he scarcely expected -- from La Tour , Claude next proceeded to the person whose address he had procured from James , and who had been recommended as one so able , from various circumstances , to afford him aid in an emergency like the present . 
Ida had already informed him that her uncle , Colonel St. Marie , was still at his chateau a few leagues from Paris , and that , if she could reach it , she would there take up her abode , and consider the best means of rescuing her father from his unhappy and perilous situation . 
Claude was often in Paris , where he beheld scenes of which the reader would scarcely wish to hear the dark and bloody details . 
But , notwithstanding his exertions , he could not succeed in gaining admission to Carolan , or learning more of his fate than that he was in the Conciergerie , and was not likely to be released . 
She had heard but indirectly from her mother , till Claude , by the arrangements which he had made with James , opened a new and more certain mode of communication . 
Several months passed away , and , notwithstanding the exertions of Claude , without producing any event favourable to his wishes . 
The whole time was by no means spent by him at the chateau . 
He was sometimes weeks together at Paris -- mingling with the mobs -- shouting the cant watchwords -- attending the tribunals , and playing the rôleof a zealous revolutionist . 
In the course of the various enterprises to learn the details of Carolan 's present situation , he had made several attempts to see Danton , whose life he had saved , and whose real character and influence he had now learned better to appreciate . 
It was with feelings of such gratification as he had rarely experienced , that Claude was one day returning from Paris to the chateau St. Marie , after having nearly brought these negotiations to a conclusion , when , being almost arrived , he was alarmed by the sound of horse 's feet , and a body of troops overtook him on their way to join the army of the Alps . 
Claude had succeeded in hiding himself amid some thick shrubbery , in such a way that he could , without being seen , overhear the conversation . 
From this place of concealment he perceived that a peasant had been arrested and brought before the commander , who put several inquiries to him respecting the chateau and its occupants . 
Claude heard , with as much astonishment as alarm , these and many other particulars related of himself and the precious charge over whose safety he had watched with so much care , some of which could only have been ascertained by a system of espionagewhich he had too carelessly concluded he had escaped . 
A short council was immediately called , consisting of two or three of the officers , of which Claude did not wait to hear the result . 
He crept from the thicket , which fortunately led through a narrow lane shaded with trees and bushes in such a way as to conceal him from the view of the soldiery , who were , moreover , too expectant of the orders of their chief and of their anticipated booty to regard his motions . 
Wyndham , it is to you alone I dare intrust her . 
`` These are dangers , '' said Claude , `` which make flight imperative -- for you , monsieur , as well as for her . 
Claude led his affrighted companion , with gentle force , from the arms of the high-hearted old man , and withdrew , tenderly sustaining her hasty and faltering steps . 
he continued , as Claude raised a pistol . 
He accompanied the last exclamation by discharging his musket ; but , before he had time to bring it to a correct aim -- before even the words had fairly left his lips , the ball , winged from the rapid hand of Claude , laid him dead upon the grass . 
The contents of his musket spent themselves harmlessly in the air . 
A wild shout from the house winged Claude 's feet with yet new swiftness ; and , lifting Ida upon his arm , he gained a thick grove within a few yards of the wall , just as a crowd of shouting ruffians turned the angle of the building , which , indeed , was already a scene of shrieks , tumult , and uproar . 
Completely sheltered by the bowers of the tangled wood , he fled hastily with his beloved burden . 
It was not long , however , when , by the increased weight upon his arm , he perceived that he bore a senseless form . 
He stooped to gaze upon that face , the image of so many a delicious dream , and a thousand times more beautiful in reality even than in imagination . 
He bathed her pale temples and closed eyes with water from a spring , that gushed from the rock against which he leaned , and , with a tremour at his heart such as he had never known before , he measured her beautiful , senseless form with fearful eyes , to assure himself that the ball of the ruffian who had fired at them had not marred the fairest mortal that ever came from the hand of nature . 
Terrified , yet dazzled -- enraptured , yet in despair -- a tenderness , which would have made him too happy to lay down his life for her , entered yet more deeply into his soul . 
With inexpressible rapture he perceived that she was not wounded , and that she already began to give signs of life . 
Her head hung back upon his arm -- upon his bosom . 
Her eyes opened . 
Her mouth almost touched his own . 
He felt her fragrant breath upon his cheek . 
At this moment he would have forgotten the danger which surrounded him had his own life alone been at stake . 
The obstacles to his union with Ida were removed ; and her whole demeanour towards him during the time which had elapsed since their meeting in Paris , had filled his heart with new fervour , while it inspired his mind with deeper respect . 
But now , with the object of his long-cherished love thus committed to his single care -- thus abandoned to himself alone -- thus beautiful -- thus clinging to his bosom , amid the bowers of a wood hidden from every eye -- he could scarcely avoid flinging himself at her feet , and declaring the passion which inspired him . 
But the poor girl did not participate in his forgetfulness of danger , although her very terror unconsciously betrayed the love with which she had long regarded him . 
As he sustained her trembling form with the delicacy of a brother , feeling that even to die for a being so dear was a greater happiness than had ever before been allotted to his dark and lonely life , he saw enough in the unguarded tenderness and dependance , which even her fear and grief betrayed , to swell his breast with rapture , that rendered him , as far as regarded his own safety , totally regardless of the tempest around . 
`` Do not fear , '' he cried ; `` no peril shall reach you , dearest , beloved girl . '' 
she murmured , sinking from mingled fear and affection upon his bosom . 
With a Herculean arm he lifted her once more , and did not pause again till he reached the hut of old Susanne . 
This retreat was known only to three persons in the family of St. Marie -- himself , Susanne , and one of his oldest and most faithful serving-men . 
It was in order to procure to Ida the advantage of this place of security that he had sent her to Susanne , unwilling to trust the secret to any other of the servants on an occasion where there might be so many temptations to betray it . 
Leaving Ida here in comparative safety , Claude determined not to remain with them , but to reconnoitre from a distant position , and to defend it from any one who might by chance approach it . 
He therefore selected a spot where he thought he would be concealed , and remained , with emotions of mixed agony and happiness , to await the events of this interesting day . 
He could see the towers of the chateau , and , before an hour had elapsed , he beheld their tops surrounded with masses of smoke -- a sad token of the work of destruction going on beneath . 
Off his guard , he gazed at this ominous sign with so much attention , that he did not observe the approach of four soldiers till they were so near that they discovered him . 
He had one loaded pistol . 
His enemies were completely armed . 
His first impulse was to sell his life dearly ; but he reflected that resistance was certain death , while submission afforded at least a chance of safety . 
He yielded , therefore , with readiness , and was instantly conducted back to the chateau . 
It was with some difficulty that he could repress an exclamation of horror at the sight which met his view on arriving there . 
Money and plate had been grasped by greedy hands , and were piled up in baskets preparatory to being packed ; and several attempts had been made to set fire to the chateau , one of which seemed likely to be successful , for in an adjoining room the flames were slowly advancing , and emitted volumes of smoke -- what Claude had already perceived at a distance . 
`` Here is another prisoner , citizen colonel , '' said one of the soldiers ; and Claude was thrust roughly into the middle of the floor . 
At the sight of him there was a comparative silence among even the rude soldiery , as if they felt a new interest in the drama . 
`` I am a teacher of languages , '' said Claude , firmly and boldly . 
`` You are greatly mistaken , '' said Claude , composedly ; `` I am so far from being a spy , that I was the first to enter the Tuileries on the glorious tenth of August . 
Here , come forward , '' he cried , beckoning to a person at the other end of the hall . 
Claude recognised him in a moment as the young leader on that bloody day who had been so near him . 
`` It is hardly fair , '' said Claude ; `` but , to show you how sure I am , and how little I fear any harm from these my comrades in the great cause , citizen colonel , I accept the offer . '' 
Lazarre fixed his bright black eyes upon him , measured him with his glances from head to foot , and said , `` No -- I never saw him . 
`` But I saw you , '' said Claude , calmly ; `` and I will convince you you also saw me . '' 
`` You were called Lazarre , '' said Claude . 
said Lazarre , extending his hand . 
`` And it is hard , after being foremost in tearing down the tyrant 's throne -- in ridding the nation of her oppressors -- to find myself counted among them , '' said Claude , in a surly tone , and with a frown of anger at Colonel Dubois . 
Claude believed that all this brutal parade was but a mode of tempting those who knew the secret into a confession . 
Claude caught one agonized glance from St. Marie . 
A bullet from the remaining pistol of Claude , which he had carefully concealed in his bosom , lodged in the temples of the unhappy wretch . 
He fell back dead without a groan . 
St. Marie gave a shout of triumph , and a wild yell of fury burst from the throng , who threw themselves upon Claude , with their muskets and sabres in hand , to cut him to pieces . 
Atthe tumult which followed this bold act , Claude believed his last moment had come . 
He was seized by a dozen brawny hands , sabres flashed and clashed before his eyes , and he was borne to the floor , and had scarcely time to commit himself to the mercy of his Creator , ere he felt two bullets whiz past his head , and a sword pass through his body . 
The next instant would have terminated his existence had not Colonel Dubois himself interfered . 
It was after much discord and struggling that the commander succeeded in forming his men once more in a kind of order , and he instantly proceeded to question Claude . 
Accounts of the beauty of the young girl who had escaped him had excited his curiosity and inflamed his imagination , and he resolved to secure her at any rate . 
The continual return of the men who had been sent in search of her without having accomplished their object , yet farther aroused his passion . 
said he , as Claude , whose wound was much slighter than he thought , stood bleeding , but unshrinking , before him . 
Claude 's heart turned to ice . 
I can not purchase my life at such a price , '' replied Claude . 
At that instant was heard the discharge of musketry , and a deep groan , that made Claude thrill with horror in every fibre of his frame . 
Claude 's face also was bloodless , and a faintness came over him , such as no pen may describe -- such as he thought would suspend his being without the aid of the executioner . 
`` I protest against this brutal barbarity , '' said Claude . 
I throw myself upon your generosity -- your mercy '' -LRB- and his voice quivered -RRB- . 
`` I do , '' said Claude . 
Sergeant Gregoire here marched in at the head of his silent company , who ranged themselves in a line before the table , and at his command reloaded their pieces . 
said Claude . 
The ruffian made a furious gesture with his arm . 
Claude advanced . 
He had done with life . 
The sky was above him . 
The breeze touched his face . 
He heard the barking of a dog -- the careless warble of a bird -- a flock of pigeons swept down into the court , and , frightened by the soldiery , rose and mounted again into the balmy air . 
He beheld the waving branches of the trees . 
He cast one look above -- around -- then the form of Ida arose to his imagination . 
One word could save him , but that word would consign her to a fate worse than death . 
`` No , '' said Claude ; `` when the hand of a profligate dashed a blow upon my forehead , I refused to peril my life because I thought the occasion unworthy of it . 
said Claude , with a firm , bold voice . 
In truth , loss of blood and the emotions of these scenes had been too much for Claude 's strength . 
He had stood erect to receive the fire of the soldiers , and he had already bidden farewell to earth ; but in the delay so much beyond the moment , when he expected to receive the fire of his murderers in his bosom , the excitement of the moment , which had sustained him till then , gave way -- his brain swam -- a coldness , a faintness , and then a darkness crept over him . 
He believed already the ghastly ordeal past . 
He sank down upon the stones , and saw and heard no more of what was going on around him . 
A rough but strong horse , saddled , was attached to a post at the door ; and Claude , in the Jacobin costume of that period , at the sound of the wheels , appeared at the door and had some moments ' consultation with the postillion . 
Half dead with terror and exhaustion , he was led hastily in through the opened door , and found himself in the presence of Claude , who , completely dressed for travelling , seized his hand and led him into a room , where Ida , in the plain dress of a maid-servant , which she had procured from Annette -LRB- and in which , by-the-way , she looked extremely pretty -RRB- , threw herself into his arms with a flood of tears . 
Wyndham ! '' 
`` Stay not to inquire , my dearest father , '' said Ida , clinging to his bosom with streaming eyes . 
`` But -- '' `` Be satisfied , '' said Claude . 
Ida pointed to Claude , and strove to speak , but could not . 
Claude mounted his horse . 
He was thoroughly armed , and it would have been ill with any one who had interrupted their path . 
Count Carolan 's broken health and St. Marie 's age and feebleness nearly monopolized the society of Ida ; and Claude , with a delicacy peculiar to his character , avoided pressing himself too much into their presence . 
After a separation so long and events so agitating , he preferred leaving them together ; besides which , he had many arrangements to make , letters to write , and affairs to attend to , of which they little suspected the import . 
It was impossible , however , to avoid many moments of solitary meeting , which were full of enchantment to Claude , as they fully confirmed those tokens of tender confidence which had escaped from his charge while flying through the wood from the chateau St. Marie . 
Long before the ship-captain who had agreed to take them to London was ready to sail , Claude had learned to regard Ida as his own , with a feeling of deep happiness which more than compensated for all that he had suffered ; and she also , by no means a dull scholar , had learned to listen to his words -- to lean on his arm -- to gaze into his face , as the fondest wife receives the regards of the happiest husband . 
He had shared the benefit of Claude 's negotiations , but both he and Carolan were impoverished . 
Carolan had strangely altered during his several months ' experience of a prison and the few hours when he thought they were leading him to death . 
All his pomposity of manner had disappeared . 
He was simple , grateful , and perfectly natural . 
He did not even appear half so much an -- -LRB- the word Claude had used himself in former times , but wondered that he should have done so -RRB- as he was generally considered ; but , on the contrary , he discovered himself to be a man of mind , sense , and feeling , which valuable attributes had been miraculously restored by a wholesome period of adversity . 
There were moments when Claude even respected and liked him ; and our manuscript goes on to assert , that the favourable opinion thus produced of his good taste and discrimination was by no means diminished when , one day , just as Claude and Ida were proposing to go out to walk -- probably for the last time before the little vessel which was to bear them to London , and which was to start with the first fair wind , should sail -- he came out with , `` Wyndham , you are the very finest fellow that ever lived . 
I have enough for us all to live upon , and -- '' Here Claude turned very red , and Ida equally pale ; but , in a moment , as if they were exchanging cheeks as well as hearts , Ida turned crimson , and the blood ebbed from the face of Claude . 
`` But not , '' said the count , drawing her towards him , and suffering her to hide her face in his bosom , `` till I have consigned you , Ida , to a master abler to protect and worthier to possess you than I or any other human being . '' 
`` I can not , '' said Claude , `` at present enter into any such contract . '' 
echoed Carolan , the colour now in turn spreading over his face . 
Ida only clung to him the more closely , with a faint exclamation , which was instantly suppressed . 
`` I deem it proper , '' said Carolan , a touch of his old manner crossing him for the first time since his imprisonment , `` to say , that I have no authority for my remark but your own apparent desire ; and that an imperative sense of duty will demand , that instantly -- '' `` Suspend your displeasure for a while , my dear count , '' said Claude . 
`` At London I will tell all , '' said Claude , with a quiet smile . 
said Carolan , with his chin again in the air . 
Ida looked at Claude ; his eyes were not averted , and he even took her hand , and pressed it respectfully and tenderly to his lips . 
`` Come , shipmates , '' said he , `` all ready ! 
said Claude , who seemed blessed with an uncommon flow of spirits , which no one had ever seen in him before ; `` but you can not be too quick for us , my old heart of oak ! '' 
`` No , captain , '' said Claude ; `` if the Sally Darlyis such an interesting creature , you must devote yourself to her , and I shall relieve you of the young lady , who has her good points too . '' 
Ida lifted her eyes half tearfully , half laughingly to his , and , if wonder was mixed with their tenderness , he saw at once there was no doubt . 
As they crossed the plank over which it was necessary to pass to the Sally Darlyfrom the wharf , Ida shrunk a moment from the narrow board ; but Claude drew her arm in his , and , as he supported her on her way , it was quite surprising to see the effect of mere timidity upon her cheeks ; for it was not proved that the single word which Claude murmured in her ear as he passed his arm around her waist and partly carried her on board , could have had any connexion with their heightened colour , nor with the downcast glance of quiet happiness which was scarcely shaded by her glittering lashes . 
Ida and Claude sat together upon a bench , waiting , whether with impatience or not we shall not say , for the termination of this their second , but less serious captivity . 
While engaged in conversing , in a low voice , in a shadowy embrasure of the room , Ida 's veil drawn close over her bonnet , so that no one except her companion could distinguish her features , a boy entered and handed to Claude a note . 
I have heard all by the attentive care of Mr. Wyndham . 
He held out his hand ; she laid her own in it with a blush that gave new charm to her beauty . 
`` Oh , I am sure I shall , '' said Ida , but with a timid and hesitating air , and pale at the gloomy picture he had presented . 
`` Have you thought of this , Mr. Wyndham ? '' 
`` I really can not tell the way myself , '' said Claude , `` but yonder is a person who perhaps will assist us . '' 
A stout , good-looking , and very neatly-dressed man , in a plain but handsome livery , approached as he spoke . 
said he . 
asked Ida of Claude , in a whisper . 
Claude did so , and followed James . 
Claude aided in Ida , and St. Marie , and the count , and then entered himself . 
Annette , all astonished , found herself on the box with a coachman so large and dignified looking , so curiously and elegantly dressed , that she knew not whether he was not a great English lord . 
`` Permit me -- really -- to observe , Mr. Wyndham , that -- '' `` Where -- whereare we ? '' 
Pale -- paler than all the dangers through which he had passed could make him , Claude entered the last . 
It seemed as if he had paused to gather strength and firmness to meet the flood of joy which now over-whelmed him . 
was all his quivering lips could utter ; and they were folded in each other 's arms , with emotions which we shall be easily excused for not attempting to depict . 
How all the discoveries were communicated to each other -- how Ida and the count were made to comprehend -- how Claude learned what he had still to learn -- how the servants gazed at their new master -- how comfortable and elegant every one of the worn and exhausted travellers found the apartments separately allotted to them -- how all were refreshed by the bath , the toilet , and the most delightful restoratives -- how Annette 's head almost turned giddy with joy when she found in what way her disinterested affection for her young mistress was to be rewarded -- how transformed they all were in a few hours , by aid of new costume , and the care of maids and valets -- how -- in short , it would be an endless , if not a hopeless task to describe the scenes which followed . 
It was many weeks before Claude sufficiently recovered from the avocations and emotions consequent upon the new position in which he found himself , to think calmly upon the past or the future . 
Within that period he had become the husband of her whom he had loved so ardently , and for whom he had dared so many dangers . 
The novel prospects opened to him -- the duties , acquaintances , responsibilities , pleasures , and plans , so far above all his wildest fancy could have pictured or his highest hopes desired -- expanded his mind with almost a new existence . 
It required all his firmness of character to remain unchanged ; but he didso ; and , ere many months had passed away , he had subdued excesses of joy as he had before done excesses of grief , and learned to move with calmness and self-possession in his new sphere . 
Some time after their union , Claude walked through one of the back streets of London in order to seek and relieve a poor fugitive recently escaped out of France . 
He arrived at the door of the house indicated as the residence of the object of his search . 
He knocked . 
The man was not at home , and he was leaving the door , when a woman , apparently a beggar , passed him and entered the door . 
As she entered she staggered against the wall , apparently intoxicated ; so much so that Claude drew back , with that disgust which one feels at beholding a woman in so degraded a situation . 
Claude was about leaving the steps , when he was arrested by the voice of the unfortunate creature , and the deep anguish and pathos so far removed from intoxication . 
She turned her face -- Claude 's eyes fell upon it . 
he cried , `` do my eyes deceive me ? 
`` Mr. Wyndham ! 
Tears of bitter pain and self-reproach filled Claude 's eyes , and had hitherto kept him silent . 
In the fulness of his bliss he had neglected to inquire of her . 
he faltered . 
`` Do n't name him ! 
Oh , Mr. Wyndham , that rash act -- that selfish -- that -- what suffering it has caused me ! 
She works fourteen hours a day , and scarcely gains her bread ; they abuse and beat her -- she -- I -- '' And the unhappy being , turning ashy pale , staggered back , and would have fallen had not Claude caught her on his arm . 
He called instantly for a hackney-coach , and , in the mean time , the woman of the house administered to her wants with a world of protestations and apologies . 
Madam Denham revived as the coach drove up to the door , and Claude supported her in with the assistance of a maid , whom he requested to accompany them . 
He ordered the coachman to drive at once to Grosvenor Square . 
Early the next morning , leaving Mrs. Denham to the tender care of Ida , Claude went in his carriage to the shop of the shoemaker , whose address he had learned , and where his little favourite Ellen had been bound as an apprentice . 
`` It 's the best I could do , '' said Ellen , in a voice so unhappy and resigned that it went to Claude 's heart . 
said he , turning to Claude with a smile fit for a customer . 
`` I have come to see this little girl , '' said Claude . 
But the tones of his voice had no sooner reached Ellen 's ears , than she uttered an exclamation of acute surprise and joy , and lifted her eyes . 
On recognising him as he extended his arms , she started up with a scream of exquisite delight . 
But his arm was arrested by Claude , and the brutal tyrant was thrust with some force against the wall on the opposite side of the room . 
`` Stop , sir , '' said Claude , calmly but firmly grasping him by the throat ; `` you are a brutal , infamous , drunken scoundrel ; you must knowthat such treatment as I have witnessed towards this little girl subjects you to severe punishment ; and , if you advance farther , I shall be obliged to teach you on the spot a lesson you deserve to learn . '' 
Mr. Wyndham -- dear , dear Mr. Wyndham -- save me ! 
demanded the man , his wrath and resistance entirely abated by the stern and cool attitude with which Claude had addressed him . 
`` There is my card , '' said Claude . 
`` Come , my sweet Ellen , '' said Claude . 
`` Let them finish it themselves , my dearest child , '' said Claude , smiling ; `` you will have other work , I hope . '' 
Onemore scene -- the last which closes our story -- was reserved for Claude , as if Providence had wished to teach , with the full force of contrast , the lesson which we have feebly endeavoured to illustrate by giving this true history to the world . 
A few days afterward Claude received a visit from Lavalle . 
The joy which he felt on seeing him was checked by his sad air , his pale and thin face , and the melancholy betrayed in his appearance and actions . 
said Claude . 
ridiculous , '' said Claude . 
said Claude . 
Claude and Lavalle both turned pale with horror as they gazed on this object : Claude with horror and compassion , Lavalle with bitter self-reproach . 
He was lying on his back , stretched out to his full length -- his chin raised in the air -- his head thrown back , and moving in sudden jerks , so as to describe a circle around the room with his eyes -- from the floor -- up the wall -- over the ceiling -- down to the floor again . 
This he repeated continually , with that monotony of motion peculiar to madness . 
Suddenly he exclaimed , in the most touching voice possible , `` Oh , God ! 
Claude was thrilled to the soul with the pathos of that voice . 
A hidden quality of character appeared in it ; a tenderness , a feeling , which he could not reconcile with the nature of the cold , malignant , bad man he had known and hated so . 
`` Why , Elkington , my friend , '' said Claude , thrilling in every fibre of his frame , `` how are you to-day ? '' 
He stopped suddenly , like one caught unexpectedly by observers when he was doing something he supposed in complete solitude , and he looked at the speaker fixedly , surprisedly , and sternly . 
`` How do you do , Mr. Wyndham ? '' 
he said , almost in his natural voice . 
He gave another broad and stern gaze , which suddenly changed into a silent laugh ; then he closed one eye , and looked slyly with the other into the corner of the room , as if exchanging signs with some being there invisible to all but himself . 
Then he began once more the motion with his head -- now laughing cunningly , as if chuckling over some secret -- then pausing to measure his visiters from head to foot , with glances of such scorn and malice -- of hate and ferocity -- as made it evident that only his confinement kept them safe from his violence . 
You could see though his face , as into a mirror , the workings of the disturbed sea beneath ; the wild , disjointed clouds drifting gloomily through his mind , sometimes breaking into a gleam of sunshine , then gathering over in stormy masses black as night . 
Mr. Wyndham , '' he cried , suddenly , `` we want no dances ; no , we had them once ; we proved them well -- well -- ah ha ! 
`` You have a pleasant room , '' said Claude . 
He looked at him as if he would tear him into a thousand pieces . 
said Claude . 
`` He struck me , '' said Claude , `` and I thanked God every moment I was there that I had turned from his blood and left his punishment to Heaven . 
Believe me , my friend , He who placed us in this mysterious world meant we should govern our rash passions which betray us into such errors , and that our hands should rather be lifted in humble supplication for mercy to Him than be plunged into the -- '' `` Spare me , Wyndham , spare me ! 
She received from the generosity of Claude a sufficient amount to allow her to live as she had been accustomed to . 
He confessed that , in order to retain the estate in Elkington 's right , he had employed an assassin to pursue Claude , having discovered his claim before Elkington himself . 
Should we ever take up the story again , there are several other explanations which we shall feel ourselves bound to make to the reader ; but we must not omit to state , that the very pretty Miss Kühl , from whose power Claude had been obliged to withdraw , lest his interesting and amiable manners should prove too much for her , appeared in London , in the course of a few months after his union with Ida , as the lady of an extremely handsome young Russian officer , named Count Stroggonoffennhoff , and made a very good appearance by the side of the young Countess Beverly . 
Indeed , Claude and Strogg -- that is , her husband -- became great friends ; and from the care the young man took to present his beautiful bride to Claude , and to inform him who she was , & c. , it was evident that , although a tolerably well-informed man , he did not know everything that had happened in Europe during this eventful century . 
