Mass Willie , da you ? '' 
`` Thank you , Mass Willie ; but ` scuse me , ef you please ; no more dis time . 
`` How tory guine fin ' he way yer , Mass Willie ? '' 
`` Wha ' de use for you talk so , Mass Willie , when you knows its onpossible . 
Look yer , Mass Willie , keep you eye sharp ` pon dat same ole Cappin Trabis . 
You t ` ink he hab good feeling for you , Mass Willie , cause you fadder and him bin togedder in de ole Cherokee war ! 
`` Catch me at dat , Mass Willie ! 
you guine a ` sguising yourself agin , Mass Willie . 
`` De high hills , Mass Willie . '' 
psho , Mass Willie . 
But , one ting , Mass Willie . 
`` God bless you , Mass Willie ; God for ebber bless you , and sen ' you safe , wid a warm spur , trough de berry camp ob de enemy . '' 
I ` member dat scrimmage by M`Code ferry ; den de one down by Lenud 's ; den up ag ` in in Lynch 's ; I yer de ole Gamecock say , hese ` f , dat Willie Sinclair is all h-ll for a charge ! 
He then grasped the post with a single hand . 
As he did so , the light flickered -- Blodgit having reached forward his right hand to the trough against which leaned an oaken billet . 
But whether he designed to grasp it or not , and for what purpose , must be only matter of conjecture , for , in that very moment , Sinclair turned full upon him , and clapped a pistol to his head . 
The fellow fairly shivered , but he made out to stammer : -- `` Why , major , what 's the trouble ? 
With this speech -- as if satisfied of his securities -- he deigned not another word , or look , to the fellow ; but , with a single hand , tore up the post from the spot where it seemed to be firmly planted in the earth . 
`` You are surprised , Mr. Pete Blodgit , at my discovering golden treasures where you had none , '' said Sinclair , as , with the muzzle of his pistol , he knocked in the head of the keg , and laid bare its contents . 
He dashed out ; and Sinclair heard him shoot the bolt and draw out the key , and fancied that there was a deliberate something in the way of his doing it , that spoke for a secret satisfaction , in the thought of the fellow , which seemed to give him consolation even after his losses . 
How em I to stand up to a fair fight , me a lame pusson , and a small pusson to boot , with sich a powerful man as Willie Sinclair ? 
I knows well enough you 'd be nothing in the hands of Willie Sinclair , ef he know 'd what you was a-driving at . 
Whar ' was your eyes , your hand , your knife , when he was a-eating , or a lying down , or a-counting out the money , or looking over his papers ? 
ef it hed been me , I reckon I could ha ' found a hundred chainces for laying him over the head with a hickory , or driving a sharp knife cl ` ar down into his ribs . 
Ef you was a man , ` twould n't all now stand as it is ; and Willie Sinclair would n't git off with that gould , though he 's got it in his pocket , as you say . 
Only a leetle more of the tiger , and less of the cat , and Willie Sinclair would n't ha ' seen the shine of them guineas , and wo n't carry 'em off , now he 's got 'em ! '' 
Ef I miss , and he should wake , he 'll chop me to sausage-meat in a twink ! '' 
He 's got something that I wants , mother , and what makes a fighting-man . '' 
Pete Blodgit , ef you let 's Willie Sinclair git off with them hundred guineas , I 'll cut your heart out ! 
sneak upon him , and dig into his ribs ontil you hear the rattle in his throat ! 
Never stop digging till you hear him gurgle out his last ! 
Wehave seen that Willie Sinclair had his doubts respecting the virtue of the good people inhabiting the cottage , though he could not exactly conjecture in what particular mode it was destined to be exercised in respect to himself . 
His precautions , however , were so taken as measurably to prepare him for any of the peculiar processes of Master Blodgit . 
Sinclair patted Nimrod 's shoulders affectionately , and left him saddled and bridled , but unbitted , still munching with head in the trough . 
The performance , carried on entirely in the dark , was necessarily a somewhat slow one : but Sinclair knew the precincts well ; and , being equally cool and prompt , he contrived to do the work in the least possible period of time . 
The powder , alone , did he strap upon the steed . 
The muskets and bullets he carried forth -- using his pass-key to emerge from the stable -- into the contiguous woods , some two hundred yards from the stable , where he hid them in the hollow of a tree ; -- the route to which he pursued with little difficulty -- like one accustomed -- in spite of the darkness which hung heavily over the scene . 
A few handfuls of the bullets , alone , did he sling upon the crupper of his horse . 
`` What with my weight , Nim , '' quoth he , addressing his steed -- `` a round hundred and fifty at least -- this goodly pouch of guineas , some twenty weight of powder , and a few pounds of ball , you have something to carry besides your provender , old fellow ! 
And he stroked the mane of the beast affectionately , slipped the bridle over his neck , now bitted him , and satisfied himself , by a nice examination , that his preparations were all complete . 
This done , he stole forth once more from the stable , and took his course toward the dwelling of Blodgit and his dam . 
The beast offered no objections , and did not even exhibit the reluctance which we are very sure he felt . 
His master did not mount , but led the animal , with shortened rein , around the stable ; then struck for the woods above , by a course which carried him as far as possible from the house . 
His object was to gain the road without alarming the senses of the overseer . 
He had proceeded , in this cautious manner , about a hundred yards , when he fancied that he heard a cry , and a sound of voices , brought up by the night wind . 
He paused to listen . 
He hurried his steed onward , still leading him , until he had increased the space between himself and Blodgit 's wigwam to some three hundred yards ; then , hiding the animal in a thick bit of wood , not more that fifty yards from the roadside , he coolly took his way back alone toward the cottage , to which the sounds continued to approach from below . 
he muttered , instinctively reclosing the door . 
The shouts now reached his mother 's ears . 
I reckon Willie Sinclair kai n't git off from the gripe of Hell-fire Dick . '' 
The cowardly heart of Pete Blodgit , which had begun to shrink already at the thought of the encounter he might have with Sinclair , suggested to him an alliance with the ruffian he had named , for the better execution of the task which he himself feared to perform . 
and when ` Hell-fire Dick ' settles with Willie Sinclair , who 's guine to make Hell-fire Dick settle with you ? 
Do n't let Hell-fire Dick and the other fellows know that Willie Sinclair is here . 
Give 'em the rum that they 're a coming after ; for I know you 've got a kag , though you did swear to the major that you had n't a drop -- `` And I had n't for him ! '' 
He war n't the person to be told what you hed . 
Sinclair surveyed this group of scoundrels , at his ease , through the crevices of the cabin . 
He had some previous knowledge of all of them . 
The sterner passions of Willie Sinclair grew fearfully aroused as he looked in upon the savage group . 
was his soliloquy , muttered through his clenched teeth . 
Thus saying , the major of dragoons , as if confirmed in a previously-meditated purpose , moved confidently round to the front of the cottage , and made his way to the tree , to the branches of which Pete Blodgit had fastened the horses of the outlaws . 
Sinclair moved away as he spoke , gave one more look at the outlaws at their carousals , then sped off , with steps at once firm and cautious , to the spot where he had fastened his horse . 
Mounting , he turned the beast out of the woods into the main road , leading upward , and went forward at a moderate trot , as if unapprehensive of the dogs of danger at his heels . 
He had calculated the chances fairly . 
He was not a moment too soon upon the road . 
But the fate of mother Gelzer did not discourage her tongue in its habitual exercise ; particularly when she thought of the night rapidly escaping , and the chances of Willie Sinclair 's getting off safely with the hundred guineas . 
Blodgit groaned , remembering the treasure only so recently transferred to Willie Sinclair 's safe keeping -- groaned piteously . 
If the gold was to be wormed out of Sinclair 's pockets , through his heart , what should save it from such ruffians as these who now declared their knowledge of the overseer 's possessions . 
As he spoke , he threw upon the table the four stirrups , each with a fragment of the leather , which Willie Sinclair had cut from the several saddles . 
`` Nobody but Willie Sinclair ! '' 
`` Willie Sinclair ! '' 
`` Willie Sinclair here ! '' 
`` Why did n't you tell us Willie Sinclair was here ? 
When was he here ? 
Where was he hiding ? 
If he 's in the stable yit , I 'll take the change out of him , though I have to put the lightwood splinters to the nest . 
`` The Lord in his marcies grant that Willie Sinclair 's off , '' groaned the old woman . 
`` It 's hisgould and his sister 's , and he 's got the right to it ! '' 
But Willie Sinclair now knows all . 
He 'll never trust you agin . 
He 'll turn us out . 
He 'll take away the keys , the corn , the fodder , the hogs , and he 'll let Marion 's men know that you 're no better than a tory ! 
This was not improbable , and there was still a possibility of finding him asleep , and unsuspicious , in his nest . 
They stole upon it , therefore , with the wariness of the wildcat finding his way into the poultry-yard . 
Look you , Sarpent , I 've a most etarnal hate for that same Willie Sinclair . 
I hate him bekaise he 's a gentleman ; and he makes you feel it . 
I know 'd him , and sarved under him once , and the very look of him made my blood bile in my veins . 
I 've got his tracks . 
I 've found out one of his hiding-places in Four-Hole Swamp . 
If you had the liver of a man would you have let Willie Sinclair strip you of every shilling ? 
Assuming Sinclair to have had an hour 's start of them , he had covered some five miles of ground . 
To overtake him was possible ; but they conjectured readily what would be his policy in that event . 
He must take to the woods ; and , in his doing so , lay their better chance of securing him , since , throwing themselves between him and the Barony , cutting him off from that shelter , their game was to beat the woods , in broad daylight , until he was found . 
They were keen dogs for a warm scent , and did not despair of finding him by daylight . 
To anticipate Sinclair , in his attempt to gain the Barony , was their present object ; and , whether they passed him on the road or not , was by no means a consideration , since the whole of the next day was before them , and they had no knowledge of military parties , anywhere about , to interfere with their pleasant pastime in the hunt . 
But he calculated his own policy also . 
He did not push his beast beyond a trot during the hour which he had been upon the road ; and , at the close of this period , he suffered him to subside into a walk . 
Thus quietly moving , he was better able to take in distant sounds , than if he had suffered the hoofs of his own steed to beat up the ears of silence . 
The only disadvantage that lay in the adoption of this plan , was in the necessity which it compelled , of making a greater circuit than otherwise would have been requisite , and of exposing the fugitive , for a moment or two , out of cover , while again crossing the road to recover the region whither his flight was directed . 
But this necessity did not seem to involve much peril , since he could choose his own place and moment for the attempt . 
Satisfied on this score , and that he was sufficiently sheltered by the dense forest in which he had taken refuge , our hero 's policy now was , to suffer the pursuers to pass him , and to be sure of this fact himself . 
With this object , he rode his horse a hundred yards into the wood , then alighted , fastened him to a bough , and coolly took a bee-line back to the road , on the very edge of which he covered himself closely , among a clump of scrubby oaks . 
Here , `` squat like a toad , '' he waited , without apprehension , the approach of the outlaws . 
It was only with a slight quickening of the tides about his heart , that he saw them at length heave in sight , one after the other , four dark and hurrying shadows , going at a smart canter , and whirling along without the slightest heed of the spot where he harbored . 
He suffered them to pass out of sight and hearing before he prepared to rise ; and , just when he was about to do so , his keen ears caught the sound of another horse coming from below . 
Our major of dragoons waited , still crouching in his cover , to see the approaching party . 
Perfect silence brooded over his path . 
The route was dark enough to render his forest progress slow ; but he betrayed , and really felt , few anxieties . 
So perfectly assured was he of his whereabouts , that , when on a line with the great avenue of the Barony , he stopped short , and , looking about him , soon found a little Indian trail which he knew conducted to it ; but he had no purpose to pursue it , and , still pushing forward , he went fully half a mile above , before he inclined once more toward the high road . 
When within speaking distance of it , he paused , and gathered up his several clues of thought . 
Thus , looking and listening , he went forward boldly , and crossed the road in safety , unseen of mortal eyes . 
He found himself now in a dense forest , half a mile above the avenue , but still forming a part of the immense baronial estate of his father . 
He advanced into the thicket a full quarter of a mile , then turned the head of his horse downward , and made for the negro settlement . 
His love , here , supplied the place of reverence ; and his admiration was of such a sort as to deprive him of all his critical acumen , when he had to judge of young Willie 's opinions and performances . 
We need not attempt to account for his passion for `` young Mass Willie . '' 
While his young master , Willie Sinclair , was dodging the outlaws , Ben 's nose was making famous bugle-sounds in his cottage -- wasting its music `` on the desert air , '' indeed ; but , without any cavilling spirit to rebuke its free privileges . 
`` G rad for see you , Mass Willie -- no look for you dis time , but mighty g rad for see you ! 
And how 's you , Mass Willie ? 
`` Lawd bless you , dat 's wha ' I says to myse ` f , ebbry time I sets down to my dinner -- I says , Lawd , ef I could only gee Mass Willie a bit ob dis bacon , or a plate ob dis rice , or a wing ob dis chicken , or a dozen ob dese eggs , or a bowl ob dis coffee , or somet ` ing or udder , sich as I has a-hissing and a-smoking before me ; wha ' ebber I hab for my own eating dat day ! '' 
`` It 's a most onmassiful life , Mass Willie , to be a sodger ; and I tinks ob de bad libing for you ebbry day . 
`` Da 's true , Mass Willie , '' answered the other with a sigh . 
Dey 're all alike -- whigs and tories , king 's men and people 's men ; de fac ' is , Mass Willie , de very sight ob a fat steer , or a clebber young heifer , naterally , I may say , turns an honest sodger into a tief ! '' 
`` I mus ' uttar dem , Mass Willie , kaise , you see , it 's de onnateral , Christian trute , I 'm a-telling . 
But he do n't cuss you , Mass Willie -- no ! 
`` Well , I reckon he would , Willie Sinclair -- I reckon he would , ef ` twa n't for an angel , dat just den light down close by his shoulder , and puts he arms round he neck , and looks inter he face jest so , with sich a smiling and sich a weeping in her eyes , and sich sweet words upon her mouth , and kisses too , dat his heart gets weakly and saft , and she stops de cusses on his lips ; and he stops biling over , and forgits de British and de whigs and de tories -- forgits everyting but jest what de blessed white angel happens to say so saftly in his ears . 
Mass Willie , dat 's a bressed critter , to be a woman , dat same gal child , Carrie Sinclair . '' 
`` It 's about day-breaking now , Mass Willie . '' 
`` He no hab de heart , Mass Willie . 
`` Berry grad for see you , Mass Willie . 
Bress God , Mass Willie , I ai n't got no wife yit ! 
Hope for hab one some day , and ef you be so good , Mass Willie , to say de good wud for me to Miss Carrie , and mek 'em le ' me hab Congaree Polly , wha ' wait on em -- '' `` Well , why should n't you have Congaree Polly , if you are both willing ? '' 
`` Polly mighty smart and scrumptious , Mass Willie . '' 
Sinclair , wearing Indian boots -- moccasins and leggins of buckskin -- awoke no echoes by his tread ; and the feet of Tiger , as if emulous of his master 's stealthy progress , were set down as if he trod on velvet . 
The major passed the chamber in the upper story , in which his father slept , with increased caution of movement ; and went on rather hurriedly to that which his sister occupied , at the end of the passage . 
Tapping at the door lightly , he was promptly heard within . 
was asked , in the well-remembered accents of his sister . 
`` Willie ! 
Can it be Willie ? '' 
He whistled again , and then the voice whispered to him through the keyhole : -- `` Wait a moment , Willie , till I throw on my gown . '' 
He had not long to wait . 
Willie Sinclair watched the two , perused them , we may say , with almost the fondness of a lover . 
Willie , I am so happy that I see you again , and safe , and well ! '' 
`` Such is , certainly , the case , Willie , '' said the sister , with a mournful shake of the head . 
The brother continued : -- `` He does not know , as yet , perhaps , that Rawdon has , in turn , been compelled to retreat ; that ` Ninety-Six ' has been evacuated almost as soon as relieved ; that the Irish troops can not be trusted ; and that the partisans are every day increasing in number , in spirit and confidence , and , under new leaders , hitherto unknown , are starting up , on all sides , like the armed men , from the teeth of the dragon ! 
`` Not a word of this does he know , and , I may say , Willie , that , in his present conditions and mood , not a word is he likely to believe . 
He thinks the triumph of the British arms certain ; and was , only yesterday , making it a subject of discussion -- I suppose chiefly to worry me -- whether , it became him , as a true subject , and as an honorable man , to interfere with a petition to Lord Rawdon , in your behalf , in anticipation of your captivity , trial and doom , as a traitor . '' 
`` So it would , Willie , no doubt , had it not been for the discovery which he has lately made of your visits to a place on the Edisto , called Holly-Dale . '' 
Willie , there is a secret you have kept from me ? '' 
I 'm so glad , Willie , to hear you say so ! '' 
`` But you surely , Willie , acknowledge the claim of caste and society ? '' 
`` And is this young lady so attractive -- so refined and intellectual , Willie ? '' 
`` I do not see , Willie . '' 
`` Truly , Willie , a formidable rival . 
Does she incline to either , Willie ? '' 
Fortwo hours exactly , did Willie Sinclair sleep . 
He was wrapped in slumber as soon as he had laid himself down , and awoke at the designated time of limitation . 
Carrie was absent when he awakened , and he had time to perform his ablutions before she reappeared . 
At her return it was very natural that she should resume the subject of his wooing , and of the damsel he had won . 
But , in Carrie Sinclair 's case , it was the curiosity of a loving sister that sought for his secret , and not an idle brain , or a silly fancy ; and she welcomed all his confidences with a genial love . 
The natural satisfaction , nay , exultation , which he had displayed in revealing his triumph , in the story of his successful wooing , was fondly encountered by the sympathies of his sister . 
She readily believed that the lady whom Willie had chosen was worthy to be her sister ; and all the social barriers which she fancied had really existed between her family and that into which he proposed to marry , were dissipated by a breath . 
She took Willie 's hand into her own , and pressing it fondly , exclaimed : -- `` I must know her , Willie . 
It seems so , Willie ! 
`` Chased , Willie , by whom ? '' 
Here he told the much-wondering damsel all the story as it is already known to us . 
At the close , he laid before her the gold , the sight of which had proved so fatal to the virtues of Dame Blodgit and her son . 
`` Keep it , Willie . 
`` He speaks of you often enough , Willie . '' 
`` Yes , indeed , for he speaks angrily . '' 
yes , Willie ; let the war but end , and all will be forgotten . '' 
And he chuckles with the idea that his interposition then will alone save me from the gallows ; and this , he fancies , will bring me to my knees ! 
He dreams still as fondly as ever of the final triumph of the king ? '' 
`` That he does ; and you would be surprised to hear him argue it out and prove it . 
`` And why do you wish that , Willie ? '' 
`` Really , Willie , you are looking monstrous wise of a sudden . '' 
Fie , fie , Carrie , to try to keep such a secret from your brother , from your own Willie , who has always opened his heart to you , the moment he became conscious of having a single sensation in it . '' 
Willie , I have never shut mine against you ! 
I did , indeed , Willie . '' 
`` Oh , do n't speak of it , Willie ; pray do n't . '' 
`` Yes , Willie , it makes me very sad ! 
to think how well he loves me , and that I dare not tell him all . '' 
`` But when , Willie , do you say , that St. Julien is coming ? '' 
`` Breck ` us , Mass Willie , '' said Little Peter . 
`` No heabby ` tall , Mass Willie . 
`` Hah , Mass Willie ! 
Mass Willie ; me tell ole maussa , how much he cuss and eat ! '' 
Sinclair knew by this that he waited for more last words . 
I tell em : '' -- and , pulling at his wooltuft , and scraping with his foot upon the floor , Little Peter disappeared . 
`` I tink , Mass Willie , '' said he , `` dat you better hab dese little bullpups yer , onder you own han ' . 
`` I see , Mass Willie ! 
Day 's a watching , Mass Willie . 
`` Leff 'em to me , Mass Willie . 
Do n't you t ` ink , Mass Willie , you better hab a poun ' or two ob dem powder and bullet you bring , yer in de house . '' 
`` I don ' know , Mass Willie , but when Hell-fire Dick 's about , and hab t ` ree , sebben , fibe pussons wid 'em , and der 's no sodgers , red coats or blue , anywhar , in these parts , I reckon it 's jest as well to be ready for de rapscallions . '' 
Willie Sinclair was just finishing a formidable breakfast , when his sister Carrie reappeared ; -- little Lottie remaining with her father in the breakfast-room . 
They had not , it is true , run down the fugitive , Sinclair , with his sack of guineas , to say nothing of those rolls of dingy continental money , which had been so painfully wrested from the keeping of Master Pete Blodgit . 
They had put themselves in such a position , along this line , as would discourage any but a desperate attempt , on the part of the fugitive , to make his passage upward . 
Respited only from the knife of `` All-fire Dick , '' and permitted to rise , he trembled with the dread of that redoubted person ; yet he felt , intuitively , that , to accede to his requisition , was to incur almost as great a danger . 
The truth is , the fellow stands a chaince of getting roped in some way ; sure , ef Willie Sinclair 's got to the Barony . 
Well , he 's jest the man to work his fingers jest as his idees work ; and I should n't care a snap of myfingers ef he did knock the skunk of a fellow on the head . '' 
`` But then he 's on ourbusiness , Dick , '' put in Skin-the-Serpent . 
And , being on our business , ef he comes to any harm , we must see him righted ! 
What I meant was , that , as for any use that Pete Blodgit 's to us , now that Sinclair 's found him out , he 's none ; and ` twould n't be of any consarn to us ef he wasa hanging on the first tree , to-morrow ! 
But we wo n't let him hang ef we kin help it , while he 's working on our account ; and we 'll be as good as our word , in hanging as many others as we kin lay our hands on , in that blasted nobility consarn , ef so be they dare to put Pete Blodgit 's neck out of j' int . 
This latter worthy was making his way slowly to the dwelling , filled with many misgivings , and busily employed , mentally , in preparing the apologies for his conduct , should he find Major Sinclair at the Barony ; and , in the event of his absence , a neat little narrative for the satisfaction of all other persons . 
`` Mass Willie , '' quoth Benny Bowlegs , peering into the chamber of Carrie Sinclair , where the major of dragoons still harbored , `` sure as a gun , hyar 's dat polecat , Pete Blodgit , a-coming up de ab ` nue . '' 
Five minutes after , he might be seen , with a significant plough-line in his hands , conducting the dubious overseer , with great apparent civility and attention , into the great hall where Colonel Sinclair , half reclining , half sitting , was nursing his podagra . 
Once in the great passage , he was in sight from either of the two large rooms which opened upon it , in one of which Colonel Sinclair might be seen , half reclined upon an easy-chair , with his game-leg stretched out upon a cushioned stool before him . 
His gold-headed cane lay on the table , convenient to his grasp ; and the massive knob on the top of it , marked with its owner 's crest and initials , appeared to Blodgit to have grown prodigiously in its dimensions since he last had the satisfaction of looking upon it . 
He could not shake off the sense of that habitual awe , of the lordly superior , in which he had been reared ; and he now stood , cap in hand , shoulders bent , foot awkwardly scraping , and a half-silly , half-smiling visage , which was designed to be very conciliatory . 
Willie Sinclair was not in a situation to render the proverb an erring one in his case . 
He was in the adjoining room with his sister ; not there , as a listener to his father , by any means , but only of what should fall from the lips of Master Pete Blodgit . 
-- Willie murdered ! '' 
Willie 's in no danger , father ! 
He 's not murdered ! '' 
`` Then he got here , safe , ma'am ? '' 
Why do we not see him ? 
Go , good Blodgit , and bring him to us at once . '' 
`` Le ' me ax you , Misser Pete Blodgit , whay Mass Willie bin git all dem guineas ? '' 
`` And tell me , Missir Pete Blodgit , how dem blackguard gemplemen come for know Mass Willie hab all dat heap o ' guinea ? '' 
what 's to prevent you?You are able to mount horse , and use sabre , if needs be ; and there is Little Peter , who will fight for Willie too ! 
How is it , Ben , that I have to say to you -- ` Go and find Willie Sinclair , living or dead , and bring him to his father ? '' 
He was satisfied that Willie Sinclair was notat the Barony . 
He had fulfilled his task sufficiently -- satisfactorily , as he thought -- and there was nothing in the eye of Colonel Sinclair , or that of his daughter , which encouraged him to remain . 
Of course , he bowed himself out as reverently as he came , the colonel scarcely heeding his expressions of devotion and adieu ; and Benny Bowlegs was particularly careful to escort the overseer to his nag , and see him on his way . 
The tears gushed from Willie Sinclair 's eyes in his place of hiding , where he had heard every syllable . 
He could scarce contain himself ; and it required a prodigious effort to avoid rushing forth and throwing himself at his father 's feet . 
Willie has escaped the outlaws ! '' 
Escaped ! 
Is not this fellow , Blodgit , in the employ of Willie Sinclair ? 
What good reason is there for keeping himfrom a fact in which he is naturally interested . 
Did he not show his interest , in the very act of coming here in search of him ? '' 
'T is ` nough , I tell you now , dat dem d -- n skunk , dat run Mass Willie last night , no hab de nose for follow ! 
You spoke with Willie this morning ? '' 
`` And Willie talked with you ? '' 
Willie Sinclair peeped through the half-opened door at him , while he sate in this position ; but he did not venture to approach . 
The son 's eyes were very full of tears , when his sister rejoined him , and in her chamber they retired to weep together for awhile ; in which performance , we may add , that Willie Sinclair was soon very fast asleep . 
His conviction , that Willie Sinclair had not yet succeeded in making his way to the mansion-house , was naturally that of the group ; and they now longed for nothing so eagerly as the arrival of Brunson , Rodgers , and the dogs , in order to run down the fugitive with his burdensome bag of guineas . 
`` And I tell you , Pete Blodgit , that you 'd no more have thought of lifting we ` pon agin ole Sinclair , disabled as he is , so long as his eyes was upon you , than you 'd ha ' thought of fighting a whole British rigiment ! 
It wa n't the niggers that kept you from trying your hands upon him ; but 't was his eyes upon your ` n ; and your own cowardly sperrit ; and what you knowed of him of old : for , impudent as he is , and a tyrant all over , there 's no denying that he 's got spunk enough to fight the devil . 
Very brief was the respite which Willie Sinclair had seized from the necessities of war , in which to visit the old familiar places of his childhood , and once more to embrace the sisters of his love . 
It was , of course , a great qualification of his happiness that he was not permitted to approach his father ; as the reader will have already inferred , from our hurried sketching , he was , in great degree , an outcast from the affections of the old man . 
His conventional world had confirmed the despotic character of his mind , and trained him to regard the family connections as involving a degree of scrupulosity , which forbade entirely the possibility of unequal alliances . 
Blood was always , with him , a chief consideration in the affairs of the affections ; but he made the conditions of blood to depend , as is the too common error with all such persons , upon genealogical proofs merely ; -- never once recognising that beautiful property in Nature , by which she is continually repairing exhausted fountains , by turning in upon them new streams , from sources of strength and virtue , which have not hitherto been known . 
But Col. Sinclair was not a philosopher , and between his passion and his pride , he was not in a mood to acknowledge the force of any argument which told in behalf of a son who had already offended both . 
It is not to be denied that Willie Sinclair had that morning found a grateful proof of this lurking sentiment of love , on the old man 's part , in the agony which he betrayed when first told of his son 's danger and possible death . 
I felt , all the while , Willie , that it must be so , in spite of all his violent speeches . 
It was his gout , I suspect , that made him so bitter of speech ; and the visit of Captain Travis took place , unhappily , just when he was most suffering . 
`` Yes , '' said Carrie , with a brightening face , taking her brother 's hand , `` for , Willie , with all his prejudices , father is just in the end -- only give him time and all will be right . '' 
`` Yet he has tried me very severely , Carrie , '' responded the brother very gravely . 
Willie , he has tried himself still more ; and you , brother , you , too , have tried him!Think of his loyalty -- that he has borne the king 's commission -- how he prided himself upon it , and how keenly he must feel the course you have pursued in taking up with the liberty party . 
And then , think of the trial to his social pride when he heard of this engagement with Bertha Travis . 
It seemed to him , Willie , as if you were trying all ways to crush and mortify him . '' 
It has been so natural and easy to think , all the while , that I was the one whom he sought to crush and humble . '' 
`` But you must think so no more , Willie . 
You see , now , what are his real feelings . 
Give him time , I do not despair of seeing him as fond of your Bertha , as you are yourself ; if '' -- here she smiled and pressed his hand -- `` if , indeed , she answers the description you give of her . '' 
Enough , Willie , that she is yourfavorite . 
When he was admitted , he said : -- `` Benny Bowlegs , Mass Willie -- bin sen ' me . 
`` As it is but a single man , '' answered Willie , `` there can be no cause for uneasiness . 
This was done ; the moment for descending the stairs was propitious -- Colonel Sinclair still brooded in the breakfast room , with little Lottie , playing with her doll , before his eyes -- and Willie stole down the private stairway into the pantry , through the sheltering blinds of which he could note all the approaches in the rear of the dwelling , yet remain unseen himself . 
Here Carrie left him , proceeding to the breakfast-room , whence she would have persuaded little Lottie off to her lessons ; but the old man raised his eyes , and mildly said : -- `` Leave her for a while , Carrie . 
She rejoined Willie , and he pacified her uneasiness . 
`` But why let him approach at all , Willie ? 
Willie Sinclair never for a moment left his own place of watch . 
But he was not kept long in expectation . 
Sinclair recognised him in a moment . 
he muttered . 
And , with the utmost coolness , Sinclair disposed his pistols upon the table , cocked and ready ; and drew his sabre so gently as that no sounds should reach his father 's senses in the adjoining room . 
The naked weapon he leaned up in the corner , convenient to the grasp , should he need to dart through the door separating the two apartments . 
He took off his spurs , and laid them carefully aside . 
His moccasined feet gave forth no sound . 
Opening the bosom of his hunting-shirt , he felt for the handle of his couteau de chasse , and satisfied himself that it lay easy to his grasp . 
These things done , he composed himself quietly , to wait the progress of events . 
He was too old a soldier to endeavor to precipitate them . 
He resumed his watch at the window-blind , and noted the deliberate progress of the outlaw , as he rode up to a tree , dismounted , flung his bridle over a swinging limb , and marched boldly and heavily up the back stairway into the great passage of the dwelling . 
It would have been quite easy for Sinclair to have shot him down at any moment , on this progress ; but Willie did not delight in deliberate bloodshed . 
He would have felt a degree of shame at such a procedure . 
Dick was ostensibly a king 's man , and Colonel Sinclair would require some very certain evidence before he would believe him capable of designing evil to himself or family . 
All these thoughts passed through Willie Sinclair 's mind as the outlaw approached ; but he smiled to himself as he said : -- `` But he will soon grow wiser ! 
The previous events of the day had had the effect of subduing his mood to one of a quiet , if not a pleasant melancholy . 
The excitement occasioned by the supposed danger of his son had not exactly passed away ; but remained in some degree , a cause of thought and meditation . 
demanded Sinclair , finding his tongue in his increasing indignation . 
I jest wants you to see your true sitivation , and Willie Sinclair 's sitivation ; and then we 'll talk about the tarms . 
For short then , you 're to onderstand , that , ef you wants to get him out of the rope , you 've got one thing to do -- pay up -- shell out -- ontwist -- empty ! '' 
Willie ! 
Willie , my son ! 
`` I 'll answer you directly , sir , '' said Willie Sinclair , `` as soon as this rogue is properly roped . '' 
But Willie Sinclair , speaking in the voice of authority , sent them off . 
Thus speaking , Willie Sinclair winded his horn merrily , while stooping over the prostrate ruffian whom he had entirely disarmed . 
He did not forego his vigilance a moment . 
`` A good blow , Willie -- well delivered ! 
`` You kill de blackguard , Mass Willie ? '' 
`` Take him off to the lower story , boys , '' said Willie , `` and give him a taste of rum or brandy . 
The negroes swung the outlaw up , by arms and feet , and he was carried down into the brick basement of the dwelling . 
His head was bandaged , and he eagerly swallowed the liquor that was poured down his throat . 
Willie Sinclair , having seen him safely shut up , returned to the dining-room . 
Willie Sinclair took a seat as composedly as the outlaw had done , occupying nearly the same situation , directly in front of his father ; and the two surveyed each other for a while , without speaking . 
`` You came in the nick of time , Willie Sinclair : -- in the very nick of time ; -- but why were you absent at any time ? 
Willie Sinclair had outraged all the old man 's notions of propriety -- his faith , his loyalty -- the prescriptive pride of numerous generations -- his own individual sentiments and feelings , which a social aristocracy had long nourished into absolute laws . 
Never was man more honorable , or more steadfast to the polar star of truth and justice , than the elder Willie Sinclair . 
We have seen , that , with death staring him in the face , without help or remedy , he yet scorned to make a single concession , for safety , to the brutal and exacting insolence of the outlaw whose knife threatened his throat . 
There was a time , Willie , when I could no more have paused , the taste once taken , till the bottle was empty , than I could have flown . 
`` Faith , Willie , at this rate , you will need no help of mine in finishing the bottle . 
But only on condition , Willie , that you are truly repentant -- that you renounce your rascally associates -- '' `` It does not need , my dear father . 
Willie , Willie ! '' 
`` Willie Sinclair , my son , I sometimes feel that I could curse you , so bitterly do I suffer from the choice you have made against my sovereign . '' 
The father audibly sobbed as he replied : -- `` But that I know you to be honest , Willie , I couldhave cursed you , and driven you for ever from my sight . 
But you have always been truthful , and spoken the truth ; and I honor you , sir -- honor you , though your course has sometimes maddened me ; -- and I rejoice in your valor and good name , Willie Sinclair , as a gentleman and a soldier , though your sword is raised for the defeat and dishonor of my sovereign . '' 
`` Why , Willie ! 
he paid me no attention . '' 
`` Fie , Carrie , my child , you know he did . 
Ask Lottie , Willie ; she can tell you all . 
`` Tell Willie about the young lord , Lottie . '' 
Lord Edward did talk a great deal with you , Carrie ; you know he did ; and he did watch you with all his eyes ; and he sat with you a long time upon the sofa ; and when papa was talking with the other lord , he got you to play for him upon the harpsichord ; and Carrie sang for him , brother Willie , and he did seem so pleased to hear her sing ; and it was a song about Ireland too ; about ` the green isle of the ocean , ' you know . '' 
Still , there was a heightened color upon her cheeks , as she laughingly answered -- `` Every syllable , Willie ; and that she remembers so well , and reports so truly , is only in proof that she was put to bed not a moment too soon . 
`` You see , Willie , she is obliged to confess everything ! '' 
This is all boy-declamation , Willie . 
`` Take care , sir -- take care , Willie Sinclair ! 
`` I know not that , sir , when they become disobedient , rebellious , Willie Sinclair . 
`` How , Willie Sinclair -- how can that be ? 
`` I am glad to hear you say thus much , Willie -- very glad . 
I tell you , Willie Sinclair , that this man Travis did more than hint to me that you had a passion for his daughter . '' 
`` And in proper season , sir , all the secrets of Willie Sinclair shall be put into his father 's keeping . 
There was some sullenness upon his face as he replied : -- `` Be it so , Willie Sinclair . 
By the way , Willie , I do not find that old Madeira does me any hurt with the gout '' -- filling his glass as he spoke with the amber-hued beverage . 
You must finish it for yourself , Willie . '' 
Willie , I should like you to know Fitzgerald . '' 
`` Not , I trust , while his sword is at the bosom of my country . 
Mass Willie , wha ' I hab for say ? 
`` Wha ' for , Mass Willie , you bodder you ' se ' f wid nigger defections ? 
De man so cole , Mass Willie , and shibber so all ober ; '' and the wench suited the action to the word in very wintry fashion . 
Having done this , and in a close and hurried search about the premises , seen that the outlaw was really gone , and was nowhere lurking in the immediate precincts , Willie Sinclair hurried up stairs . 
`` One is never safe , '' said he , `` let him be never so sure , particularly when there are women near him , no matter what the color . 
He piled the blazing lightwoodupon the floor , and left it to do its pleasure , even as Willie Sinclair found it . 
he muttered , as he was thus employed , `` to suffer a negro -- and a woman too -- to approach the scoundrel ! '' 
and thus muttering and feeling , he made his way up-stairs and sounded his bugle thrice to summon to the house his two scouting negro-fellows , and such others as they might have gathered about them . 
And Willie Sinclair again sounded the bugle for the return of the negroes . 
But , for this infernal gout , Willie , I should answer confidently against a score of the scamps ; but wheel me up to yonder window , and let me have my pistols . 
Wheel me to the window I say , Willie , and let me have a hand in the game . 
Hear that , Willie ! 
I can load them , papa : I 've seen brother Willie load 'em often , and I watched him . 
First you put in the powder , you know -- there 's the little charger -- then the wadding , and then the bullet -- and you wad that too , papa . '' 
`` Well , if you will be your sister 's rival , it is at your own peril : but where 's Willie gone ? '' 
`` Nebber fear for Little Peter , Mass Willie ; dem blackguard nebber guine catch 'em . '' 
Little Peter guine fight like de debbil , Willie Sinclair , when de scratch come ! '' 
`` Le ' me gee ` um a call , Mass Willie ; Little Peter comprehen 's my music better dan your ` n. '' And the fellow blew three peculiar noteson his hunting-horn -- an instrument with which all southern negroes are pretty familiar , and which the cowdriver and the hog-minder employ as much as the deer-hunter . 
`` God be praise , Mass Willie , we kin all fight like de debbil . '' 
Here , Willie Sinclair made all his dispositions for defence . 
Congaree Polly , rather in disgrace , and terribly humbled , was sent up to the roof , and her head , looking pilloried and very black in the face , was thrust through the scuttle ; and , with watches set , and weapons loaded , ` Willie Sinclair bade the cook bring in the dinner as she could -- his father showing himself quite impatient at the prospect of having his roast lamb and boiled mutton , upon which he prided himself , overdone . 
The orders of his son propitiated him . 
`` A cook that does her dishes to rags , Willie , '' quoth he , `` is an emissary of the devil . '' 
Is it possible , Willie Sinclair , that your miserable service requires you to associate with persons having such detestable names ? 
Carrie Sinclair shuddered as she said : -- `` But he did not kill kim , Willie ? '' 
Yet , the moment the deed was done , he nearly fainted , and could scarcely mount his horse . 
He staggered off like one mortally hurt himself . '' 
You may bring him here , Willie , should a chance offer , as soon as your insurrection is over . 
Willie , we are but poor devils , the best of us , with all our pretension ! 
Shoot him down , Willie . '' 
He thrust out his flag -- a ragged handkerchief fastened to a hickory rod -- at the approach of Willie Sinclair , half doubting all the while , that it would quite suffice for his protection . 
`` Well , Blodgit , what have you got there ? '' 
Major Sinclair smiled quietly as he read the precious epistle . 
Sinclair was pleased that Blodgit noted his armory . 
The weapons had been studiously put in sight -- all , at least , that our major desired he should see . 
He smiled at the speech of the other -- smiled scornfully -- and extending his arm , he said : -- `` Be off , Master Blodgit ; and if you 'll take my counsel you 'll take the back track as soon as these rascals shall come on . 
Benny disappeared , and Willie Sinclair , muttering as he went : -- `` We must seem to consult the old man , at all events , '' took his way toward the apartment where the veteran was keeping watch at the window he had undertaken to defend . 
The negroes were each planted at his post , arms assigned them for close quarters where they were not known to be good shots -- and few negroes are good shots -- and this done , and Benny Bowlegs and Little Peter , and another fellow , being armed with fowling pieces or rifles , Willie Sinclair hurried up to the chamber for a conference with his sisters . 
On the left of the avenue was the wood through which `` Debbil Dick '' had already made his way , seeking a surer cover in the thickets on the opposite side of the public road . 
`` I have no notion that these things will be required , Carrie , '' said Willie Sinclair , `` for I hardly think that these ruffians will be bold enough to make an assault now that they know I am here . 
There is no great danger -- none to you , my dear , so long as Willie Sinclair can strike a stroke , or lift an arm at all for your protection . '' 
`` Do I not know it , Willie ? 
As for the danger -- look at me , Willie . 
Will the outlaws not intercept him , and with their rifles , from under cover -- '' `` Never fear ! 
The sound of his bugle will be sufficient to disperse them . 
`` But Willie , I do n't want to lie down . 
There 's going to be fighting among the soldiers ; and I ca n't lie down in the bed , Willie , I ca n't , when there 's to be fighting . 
I mustsit up and hear ; but I promise you , dear bubber Willie , that I wo n't go nigh the windows . '' 
`` Let her sit with me , Willie . 
She shall keep away from the windows . 
She has promised you . '' 
`` To be sure , Willie -- when I promise , you know . '' 
`` Not the worse for it , Willie , if your man Porgy be right in his philosophy . 
`` Would it could cure you , Willie ! '' 
`` Why not , Willie ? 
I confess , Willie , that on that occasion I distinctly saw the ` Bottle Reel . ' '' 
They were encouraged by the report of Blodgit , as to the feebleness of the garrison -- a single man , even though so well known and greatly feared as Willie Sinclair , not being regarded as likely to offer much resistance to a stout band of seven old forayers . 
`` You hear , boys , '' said Brydone , after Blodgit had made his report -- `` thar 's but one white man we 've got to deal with -- Willie Sinclair . 
He 's h-ll to fight , we know , but what 's one man when we 've got the we ` pons ? 
Old Sinclair 's too lame to git out of his easy-chair , and the niggers ai n't of no account , no how , in a scrimmage . 
It sent Willie Sinclair , with due haste , to the upper chambers . 
He was quite aware that , beyond the smashing of the glass , there could be no damage done , unless his orders , that all parties should keep in cover as he placed them , had been disobeyed . 
He found all safe , and Carrie Sinclair seized his arm , as he entered the room , which had chiefly suffered from the shot -- her eye flashing , and no tremor on her frame . 
`` They have begun , Willie , and now ought we not to have some weapons here ? 
We could surely do something from this quarter , Willie . '' 
Glancing obliquely through the half-closed shutter , in the direction of the garden , Willie suddenly raised the fowling-piece which he grasped , and fired instantly . 
`` What 's done , Willie ? 
I am hurt somewhere , Willie . 
Well , Willie , what has been done . 
And , turning a silver mug down upon the mouth of a decanter of Jamaica , Willie Sinclair supplied the negroes keeping guard in the great passage and below . 
`` Boys , '' he said to the latter , `` we 'll have a drink all round , that we may be better able to thrash these dirty rascals , should they dare to come . 
And giving them a second sup of the bottle , enough to enliven their courage without enfeebling their strength , Willie Sinclair hurried up-stairs with the empty decanter . 
`` There 's a lull in the storm , Willie . '' 
`` Surely , Willie , we have nothing then to fear . 
`` It is , Willie ; it is ; -- where are the girls now ? '' 
`` Willie , my son , I should die of a broken heart -- it would kill me , Willie , if one of these dear children suffered at the hands of these outlaws ! '' 
`` What , Willie Sinclair , would you have me leave my post ? '' 
No , sir ; no , Willie ; hereI stick , at my post , ready for the enemy . 
I see what you fear , Willie ; but I do not fear . 
Willie Sinclair laughed -- laughed merrily . 
Had Willie not drawn him away from the window-jambs , he would have been peppered with small shot . 
cried Willie , `` he comes at last . 
`` Who comes , Willie ? '' 
`` True , and the greater my sorrow , Willie ; but I do not relish these Frenchmen . '' 
Willie Sinclair was about to answer with some sharpness , for he was the sworn brother of St. Julien , but a moment 's reflection satisfied him that he should rather hurt than help his friend 's cause , by entering into any argument , or making any reply . 
Willie kissed her cheek , and putting his arm about her waist , drew her to a window overlooking the entrance by the avenue . 
said Willie ; `` I wonder who leads , Carrie . 
He mocked her , and she knew it ; and burying her face for a moment in his bosom , she said : -- `` It is , Willie ! 
`` Then he has grown stouter since I last saw him , and does not carry himself with half the grace of former times . '' 
And now the strains of the bugle were long and loud ; and Willie Sinclair , rushing down stairs , threw open the door of the hall in season to welcome his companion-in-arms at the entrance . 
`` Let me only git clear out of this fix , '' he muttered to himself , `` and I 'll find the pay for him somehow out of this same harrystocratic Sinclair . '' 
But they seemed to be still below him , though greatly to the left , and he thought it not improbable that Sinclair and the two armed negroes had boldly penetrated the forests in pursuit of his comrades . 
To get certainly in the rear of both parties , it was required that he should still press directly downward , and not venture in more deeply until the sounds of alarm should certainly arise between himself and the Barony . 
With this policy , and stimulated by the intimations of strife to an eager desire to be at work in the fray himself , he flourished his carving-knife , set his teeth firmly , and hurried on as rapidly as his sufferings would admit . 
He had gone perhaps a quarter of a mile further , or more , when his ear caught other sounds which compelled a halt and counselled concealment . 
he muttered , with an oath . 
He was at a loss to conjecture . 
He had promptly adopted the counsels of Willie Sinclair , at their last interview , and had seized the first chance to withdraw from his connection with the outlaws , which he did , without beat of drum , at the moment when the band was preparing for the first assault upon the house . 
They had not noticed his departure ; had they done so , it is probable that they would have prevented it ; for , though they made no sort of calculations upon him , in respect to the fight , they knew how to use him in affairs which involved no necessity for heroism . 
We have seen that Sinclair received his friend St. Julien at the entrance of the mansion ; but he did not then suffer him to alight . 
`` Our beasts are pretty well knocked up , Willie , '' was the answer . 
`` Ef I know Willie Sinclair , he 'll hev ' that troop of St. Julien 's scattered about these woods before you kin say Jack Robinson ! 
Here they found the bodies of two of the outlaws who had been slain , one by the pistol of Benny Bowlegs behind the kitchen , the other by Willie Sinclair 's buckshot , from the dwelling . 
`` All but my father ; and his gout leaves him never wholly well . 
He actually took post with sword and pistol at one of the entrances , with all the eagerness of a young soldier on his first campaign . '' 
`` I take for granted , Sinclair , that his love for me has not undergone any great increase . '' 
I am quite well aware of what is due to him , by way of allowance ; and for hersake , if not yours and my own , I shall be even submissive . 
Colonel Sinclair had had himself wheeled into the parlor , and sat in state fronting the entrance , with his favorite leg resting upon a cushioned stool . 
Knowing that St. Julien had a penchant for his daughter -- for there is a past history of their intimacy which we must leave our readers to gather from the context -- and half-fearing and suspecting that Carrie rather favored than discouraged the addresses of the young man , and that Willie Sinclair had been his fast friend always , any preparation of his daughter , for the reception of the unwelcome guest , would have been thought too great an expenditure of consideration upon him . 
Not that old Sinclair knew anything unfavorable of Peyre St. Julien . 
On the contrary , he had every reason to believe that he was a man of honor , as he was known to be a gentleman . 
But he was a rebel ; and that was a sufficient reason at a moment , certainly , when rebellion was supposed not to be a thriving enterprise ; and the old man entertained , besides , a hearty old English prejudice , then not uncommon in this country , against all of Gallic origin . 
Willie Sinclair had more than once battled this prejudice in behalf of his friend ; but not , indeed , with any reference to the desires of the latter for the hand of his sister . 
He well knew that the time was not yet come for the discussion of this object , and that nothing certainly could be effected in behalf of his friend 's suit while the event of the war was doubtful . 
`` But , '' as he said to St. Julien , `` as marriage just now would be totally out of the question , there is no need that we should be precipitate . 
And here comes Bubber Willie and Captain Peyre ! '' 
`` Ay , '' cried Willie Sinclair , `` they got more than they came for ; two men slain outright , and others no doubt wounded , they paid heavily for their enterprise . 
exclaimed Colonel Sinclair -- his sense of justice prevailing -- `` so it has , Mr. St. Julien '' -- he could not bring himself to accord the military title to a rebel captain -- `` and I thank you , sir , for your presence . 
But he saw nothing to offend him . 
The manner of St. Julien was calm and respectful -- nay , seemingly cold . 
A slight smile on the lips of St. Julien , found its interpretation from the tongue of Willie Sinclair , who said quickly : -- `` It so happens , father , that all these rascals , Scophilites , Yahoos , foragers , tories , by whatever name they may be called , are all in the king 's commission . 
demanded Willie Sinclair , with some little pique . 
`` And I echo the sentiment , '' cried Willie , -- `` D -- n this war ! 
-- let me add , sir , an amendment -- '' to his father , -- `` and d -- n the inventors of it ! '' 
I protest against both your account and Willie 's ; and do complain of the disposition which you both show , to deprive me of the secret satisfaction which I feel in the visit of these noble lords . 
You , my father , are of the opinion that my Lord Rawdon came here on political accounts , to obtain your counsels in respect to the war and the country ; and you took good care to inform him of all he wished to learn , and , I fancy , a great deal more ; you , Willie , have a notion that , knowing British power to be declining everywhere in Carolina , my lord only came hither to prevent by conciliation the defection from the good cause of so strong a supporter of royal government . 
I protest that he was in raptures , and that Willie 's picture , though something of a caricature , was yet so very like the truth , that , in simple honesty , I am compelled to recognise the portrait . 
Willie laughed merrily , and a slight smile dawned upon the small and well-cut mouth of St. Julien . 
The young lieutenants , Cordes , Mazyek , and Postell , were invited to be sharers in the feast ; while , under Willie Sinclair 's directions , the whole body of dragoons were provided with a smoking supper at their bivouacin the great avenue . 
St. Julien alone remained with the colonel , Willie Sinclair , and Carrie ; and a pleasant but casual conversation followed , which our space will not suffer us to put on record . 
He hallooed for Little Peter to wheel him into the parlor also , but Willie Sinclair arrested the movement . 
`` Why so soon , Willie . '' 
`` This reminds me , Willie , that I have a subject of very serious talk with you . 
`` But in that week or two , Willie -- in that short period of time -- what may not happen ! 
Willie , my son , greatly as you have vexed and disappointed me in the course you have thought proper to pursue , I will forgive you all , if you will only cast off these mean disguises , and appear in your proper character . 
`` You have passed without a flag , within the British posts , Willie -- you meditate doing so again . '' 
`` What do you mean , Willie ? '' 
`` Prophecy again , Willie . '' 
After a pause the old man said : -- `` I will think of it , Willie . 
Willie Sinclair was as playful as if neither war , nor rebellion , nor treachery , were in the land , and Carrie laughed as light-heartedly at his badinage as if her lover were not sitting within six feet of her . 
`` The worst of your gout , my dear father , '' said Willie -- `` and I suppose it is the case with other gouty persons -- is that you not only feel pain , but that you do not sympathize with pleasure . 
`` Let no one disparage our plain country , as wanting in scenic beauty , '' said Willie Sinclair , `` when we possess such blue skies , such delicious moonlight , such vast plains of verdure , tree striving with tree for the embrace with light and air ; such a wilderness of shrub and flower ; shrubs that give out odor as you crush them , flowers that woo your every step with bloom and beauty as you go , and birds that sing in clouds , with a gush of voices that tell only of summer buds and blossoms , and summer fancies . 
and this is not the season for sad thoughts , Willie . 
`` If so , Willie , your cause is lost : for ourarmy boasts of Major Andr and Henry Barry , '' quoth the colonel . 
`` I confess , Willie , I not only wish to hear you sing once more , but I am curious to see what sort of a poet you keep in your rebel tents . '' 
Willie Sinclair tried and tuned the guitar in a few moments , then sang the following lyric in a fine , powerful voice , and with considerable taste and spirit : -- `` And it is such stuff as this that satisfies your patriotism , is it ? 
Why , Willie , it has not even the merit of decent rhyme . 
Willie , you will see me before you retire ? '' 
She flew to him , and kissed him fondly . 
`` I will visit you when Willie does , father . '' 
When the old man had retired , Willie Sinclair proposed a walk to his sister and St. Julien , through the encampment of the dragoons , who skirted the avenue in groups , their horses all being tethered to the trees on the lower side . 
I gave him all the reasons I could for it ; and you , Carrie , must follow up the counsel when I am gone . 
The jug of Jamaica was distributed among the eager dragoons ; and , while St. Julien escorted Carrie toward the dwelling -- an opportunity for the lovers ' leave-taking thus accorded , which we are sure was not unprofitably employed -- Sinclair found his way among the dragoons , shaking hands with their best men , and showing himself familiarly to all . 
The troop had been raised by himself , and he knew the way to make himself popular with them . 
When he rejoined his sister and St. Julien , they were again in the piazza , the latter being ready to depart . 
St. Julien strolled out slowly to join his dragoons , while Willie and his sister proceeded together to the chamber of the father . 
Of course , Willie reurged the removal of the family to the hills of Santee . 
`` No , no , Willie ! 
`` Surely , Willie , surely ! 
And they wrung each other 's hands and parted , Carrie accompanying Willie to his apartments . 
Betweenbrother and sister , so really kindred and truly affectionate as Willie and Carrie Sinclair , we may readily conceive that the parting was as difficult as it was tender . 
But it was at last effected , and Willie laid himself down to slumber . 
He needed sleep and felt weariness , and was just dropping into that dreamy condition of mind , which promises a sleep equally serene and refreshing , when he heard a door open below , a rustling in the passage to his chamber , and then the chamber-door itself , as it turned with a creak upon its hinges . 
He raised himself up at the moment , and in another second he found ` Bram at his side , fresh from that famous castle in the `` Four-Hole Swamp , '' where we had the pleasure first to introduce the stalwart and faithful slave to the knowledge of our readers . 
`` All right as he kin be , Mass Willie . 
He hab bottle in he pocket , Mass Willie , and nebber ` top drink tell he finish 'em ; all he se ` f , ` cepting one sup he gee to me . '' 
His first entrance into the chamber would have satisfied Willie Sinclair of his condition , without rendering necessary the report of the slave , which was also entirely to be relied on . 
Sinclair , accordingly , received him with great gravity , sitting on the side of the bed . 
`` That I have , major ; they 're all safe ; but I 've had work , riding and fasting , '' giving the papers as he spoke . 
The major only gave the scout a glance of the eye , and then proceeded to examine the papers which he brought . 
This he did with earnestness and deliberation . 
Sinclair followed him for a moment with his eye . 
he called . 
Why , Willie Sinclair , 't was Jim Ballou that first taught you to cross a horse . '' 
Willie Sinclair ! 
His voice was husky with emotion , as he cried : -- `` Pardon me this once , major -- Willie Sinclair -- pardon me this once , and I will swear . 
and I will keep it , Willie Sinclair -- as a man that calls upon God to look and watch his proceedings . 
The fellow rose from the floor , brushed the tears hastily from his eyes , and sobbed : -- `` Try me again , major -- try me , Willie Sinclair -- and let me make myself respectable again . 
At dawn , the grounds were empty -- Willie Sinclair , Peyre St. Julien , the dragoons -- all were gone ; but the wakeful eyes of Carrie Sinclair had witnessed their departure , and her waving hands and murmured prayer had blessed their progress . 
He had found a hiding-place with the outlaws , leaving his mother to propitiate the anger of their late patron . 
She whined at him for pity , and his mercy allowed her to remain in the cottage , the shelter of which her criminal hypocrisy had so completely forfeited . 
A harsher duty awaited the latter and found him reluctant . 
`` How , Willie , can I do that ? '' 
Fully understanding each other , the major parted with his friend at nightfall . 
He went alone , still in the disguise of a backwoodsman , and with hair and beard not his own . 
His pistols were at hand , and he wore a plain basket-hilted cut-and-thrust at his side -- a weapon in the use of which he excelled -- having taken lessons from the Italian , Baldachezzo , who , a little while before the war , had been a famous teacher of the young gentry of the Carolinas . 
With the exception of the small amount in Spanish milled dollars , which he had succeeded in withholding from Willie Sinclair , at their late settlement , and which his mother held with the tenacious fingers of avarice , he had not a single sixpence . 
The means of farther gains , from the same source , had been swept away that day by the foragers -- he had seen the whole procedure from a familiar place of concealment ; and Dick of Tophet , his ally , had torn away his horse with violence . 
He 'll not be able to carry off everything , not by hafe , and ef I do n't gut it , and gut him too , and his d -- d eternal son , the major , at the first chaince , then there 's no sense in calling me ` Hell-fire Dick ' any longer . '' 
`` Thar 's nothing to be done , jest now , while Willie Sinclair 's down at the Bairony , and with such a lot of dragoons . '' 
But , look you , Willie Sinclair ai n't with the dragoons . '' 
Why , how 's that , when he 's been with 'em all day , directing and giving orders , and pushing after men and boats , and working jest as hard as any . '' 
`` I know that ; but he wor n't with them when the dragoons marched down to the river , at sunset . 
Willie Sinclair wor n't with 'em , I tell you . '' 
`` Then he 's gone back to the Bairony ! 
I wonder ef he took any of the dragoons with him ? '' 
Ef he took any , it could n't be more than two or three . 
But I do n't think he took any . '' 
`` It is Willie Sinclair , by the powers , and he goes alone ! 
He 's for the Bairony , or further on . 
I 'm for gutting that Bairony ; but I 'm for taking the trail of Willie Sinclair at all resks . 
I owe him a knife , '' and Dick of Tophet displayed the carving-knife which he had caught up in his moment of flight . 
The ` Trailer ' and me will take after Willie Sinclair . 
I kin guess jist whar he 's a guine . 
He 's guine to sneak after old Travis 's da ` ter at Holly-Dale . 
He 's been after her before . 
Ef ' t ai n't for that , what would he be in a disguise about ? 
-- in a homespun split shirt , and not in his uniform ; and then with his great beard and whiskers which do n't belong to his face at all . 
He 's after that gal , mark what I 'm a-saying . '' 
`` But what 's it to us ef he is ? 
What kin we git by taking trail of him ? '' 
`` I kin git my revenge out of his heart 's blood ! '' 
What 's he done with them hundred guineas that he tuk from poor Pete Blodgit ? 
With these points understood , we will leave them for a while , to operate secretly , while we bestow our attention , for a brief space , upon Willie Sinclair , whose movements are destined to bring us to the acquaintance of other parties not yet present in our action . 
We may gather from what we have shown already , that Willie Sinclair had , besides , been recently required by the nature of the service , to play the politician as well as spy . 
We are not , therefore , to feel any surprise to find Willie Sinclair taking the utmost precautions for the safety of his person , as he pursues his way toward the village of Orangeburg , a post of rest for the British , commonly garrisoned by their troops , but at this juncture supposed to be entirely free of their presence , in consequence of the drafts which Lord Rawdon had been compelled to make upon all his garrisoned places , in order to command resources sufficiently large to take the field against the regular army of Greene . 
Sinclair had nothing , accordingly , to apprehend from this source -- for a few days , at least -- and his caution was only to be exercised against small bodies of mounted tories , riflemen , or cavalry , such as were commanded by native partisan rangers , of whom Richard Inglehardt , a person of whom we have had occasion to speak more than once , but whom we have not yet had an opportunity of introducing to our readers , was a very favorable specimen . 
What his success had been in this service -- whether he had secured few or many recruits -- was a matter wholly unknown to Sinclair , and rendered the utmost care necessary , on his part , in making his approaches to the enemy 's ground . 
He pursued , for this reason , a somewhat circuitous route ; and , stopping at Rumph 's place , on Turkey hill , to leave a whispered message with a faithful negro , for the ears of his master , with which the latter instantly `` put out '' -- knowing very certainly where to find him -- Sinclair resumed his progress , and , riding at his leisure , contrived to put himself in the cover of the Cawcaw swamp , a tributary of the Edisto , and within a mile of Orangeburg , just after night had settled down upon the forest . 
Here he fastened his horse , hiding him away in a thicket which was not easily penetrable , and with pistols carefully reprimed , and his sword and knife convenient to his clutch , he took his way out and upward , making fearlessly for the village . 
To this harborage , avoiding the village even while compelled to approach it , Willie Sinclair made his way , and when the darkness promised to afford him adequate covering , he stole up to the house of the veteran captain . 
The latter sat in his piazza -- a luxury with which no southern householder willingly dispenses , and on the balaster sat a tankard of Jamaica moderately dashed with simple water . 
The coast was clear , and Willie Sinclair soon made his appearance , and joined the old man in the piazza . 
We need not pursue this conversation , though the parties did till a tolerably late hour , when Willie Sinclair , in spite of the old man 's invitation , took refuge in the swamp with his horse , to whom he carried out an armful of fodder and a sack of corn . 
At dawn , Willie Sinclair had crossed the river , at the bridge , just below the village , and had planted himself in waiting , close in the thicket , but near enough to watch the river-road from above , taking Kit Rowe 's counsel to intercept Travis without notice , and in a spot where , if his purposes were treacherous , he could possess no agencies , other than his own , for putting them in execution . 
Thoughprepared to wait patiently , for the appearance of the party whom he sought , Willie Sinclair was by no means prepared to wait in vain . 
But such was his luck on this occasion . 
Fastening his good steed in the deep thickets which spread between the road and river , he put himself in position , so as to watch the former from a spot where he himself might lie unseen . 
By nature , he was not a person of very patient temperament . 
His blood coursed freely and impetuously in his veins . 
His moods were all ardent . 
He lived properly in action . 
But he had somewhat schooled this nature , and partisan warfare is of an admirable sort to assist in the proper training . 
Willie Sinclair had learned something of that grand and necessary lesson -- so essential to all progress and development -- so particularly essential to success in everything -- to wait ! 
`` Patience and shuffle the cards , '' he muttered , after he had lingered for an hour in the same spot ; and he crossed to the opposite side for relief . 
Besides , it must not be forgotten that he was but a mile or two from Holly-Dale , and Holly-Dale was the home of Bertha Travis -- that damsel of whom we have heard something already , of whom we shall know more presently , and of whom the memories , in the heart and brain of brave Willie Sinclair , were at once perpetually active and deliciously exciting . 
Willie Sinclair well knew that there was but one method of securing and making him steadfast ; and that was by making it his policy to be so . 
He fancied that he had the means to do this ; and that , in fact , he had done something toward it already . 
But for this , he never would have periled himself , alone , in the precincts of one bearing such a character , and very well known to be in the actual employment of the British commandant of Charleston . 
But Sinclair dismissed all his doubts as , mounting his horse , he took the way to Holly-Dale . 
He could give the quid -- such was his assurance to Willie Sinclair -- for any favors which the revolutionists could bestow . 
Sinclair stole down the bluff , wormed his way into the swamp , and , unheard , unseen , crept out to the banks not a dozen yards from the canoe . 
he called . 
he said , `` the black is as brave and sound as ever ; I 'm not hurt , as you see ; we have had some little skirmishing , but nothing much ; and , as for your seeing a fight , Henry , I wish you were only ten years older , that you might try your own broadsword in it , and strike , side by side with me , in a charge upon the redcoats . '' 
Sinclair put his hands on his mouth . 
murmured Willie Sinclair . 
And he shouted in reply , and , immediately afterward , darted through the swamp , calling to Sinclair to follow him . 
This the latter did , with almost as little deliberation as the boy , though with far more difficulty . 
It is enough that Willie Sinclair thought so . 
`` He has been reproaching you , Bertha , '' cried Sinclair , as he ascended the bluff . 
said Sinclair , clasping her hand in his own ; `` we meet once more . '' 
`` You are safe , Willie , quite safe ? '' 
She looked at him very earnestly , and he now detected , mingling with a deep shade of sadness upon her cheek , an expression of reserve and caution in her eye . 
There was something of a trembling motion in her lips which arrested his observation , and made him feel that something had gone wrong . 
He turned from her to the brother and said : -- `` Go , try your new lines , Henry , while Bertha and I talk of our own affairs . '' 
When he was fairly gone , the lover said , possessing himself of Bertha 's hand : -- `` What troubles you , Bertha ? 
She released to him the hand without scruple , and he pressed it warmly in his own . 
`` No , Willie ; it is scarce possible that youshould ever displease me ; and I have no doubt of your truth and love ! 
But I confess to doubts and anxieties of my own , Willie , that make me unhappy -- unhappy , even in the possession of your love . '' 
`` Willie , you must speak to me honestly and truly , as you can ! 
You shall know all that troubles me ; and I shall be too glad , Willie , if you can relieve me of my fears and anxieties . 
I need all of yours ; and it would be the greatest of miseries and disappointments to me , dear Willie , if anything should happen to make me feel that I ought not to wish you mine , or to keep your pledges that you would make me yours . '' 
She paused and looked most sweetly into his full eyes . 
He saw that her troubles were really felt , and no mere lover-anxieties , such as idleness and loneliness will breed . 
hisworking should never occasion doubt or fear in my heart ; least of all could word of his , or any one , affect my trust in you . 
`` I know not how to speak , Willie : -- it is of so difficult a nature ; yet '' -- desperately -- `` I must ! 
It must be spoken , Willie , for if I have given you up all my heart , I have not given up my pride ; and if I am to bear your name , Willie , I must not feel , or suffer any one to feel or think , that I am not worthy of it . '' 
She sighed deeply , and looked mournfully into his eyes . 
He would have drawn her to his bosom , but she resisted firmly , saying , `` No , Willie -- no ! '' 
But he repossessed himself of one of her hands , and his arm half circled her waist ; and thus they stood , side by side , beneath the sheltering boughs of an ancient water-oak . 
And thus they stood silent for a while ; -- she , at least , silent , while he only interrupted the interval by entreating her full speech . 
He was now sufficiently anxious himself , showing more of the tender lover than altogether beseemed the rustic garb he wore , and his sanguinary profession . 
`` Nor is it , Willie . 
he exclaimed , almost fiercely ; but she stopped him , laying one hand on his arm , and withdrawing , at the same time , from his embrace . 
She had now evidently nerved herself to a difficult task , and her eyes met his firmly as she lifted up her face . 
He gazed in her sweet , sad , but ingenuous eyes , and subdued himself to patience , as he urged her tenderly to proceed . 
`` Willie , dear Willie , you know even better than I what difference exists in the several ranks of our society . 
`` Patiently , dear Willie . 
`` Do not be impatient , dear Willie . 
And he led her down the slope , and found for her a shady spot upon the dry leaves that strewed the earth . 
After a brief pause , she resumed : -- `` I have not been kept in ignorance , dear Willie , of the differences of rank in society , which draw a line between my own and the more distinguished families in our county . 
When you became known to me , Willie , and I found , and showed the pleasure which I found in seeing you , my mother warned me that your family was a very proud one , of great wealth , of old rank , and bade me be cautious how I suffered you to see that I loved you . 
I had no caution , Willie ; I only felt happy when you came , happier when you spoke to me kindly , and very unhappy when you went . 
I am afraid , dear Willie , that I suffered you to see this as soon as my dear mother saw it . '' 
`` Willie , I believe you . 
And she did not undervalue me in her eyes , or disparage me to my own , when she told me that I was but a simple country-girl , having no experience of life among the great , ignorant of much that they know , artless , unsophisticated , too believing , too confiding , and with nothing to commend me , Willie , but a pretty face -- and a true heart . '' 
He caught her to his bosom as she spoke . 
he cried -- `` did I ever lead you to think , my Bertha , that the heart of Willie Sinclair longed for more ? '' 
`` No , Willie ; and , so far as you are concerned , I repent not that you have caught me in your arms -- I sigh not because your kisses have been sweet upon my lips . 
They have been very sweet to me , Willie . 
Willie , is not this enough for confession ! 
But I loved you from the first , Willie , and it was so sweet , so easy to tell you so . 
I could die for you , Willie , and never feel the pain ; and why should n't I tell you so . '' 
he murmured , looking into her eyes , the tearful tenderness which he felt . '' 
Do I tire you , Willie ? '' 
Willie . 
It was a child heart that I gave you , Willie , having a perfect confidence in all the beauties and blessings of this world , and taking them all as your gift and yours only . 
Was it not all very foolish of me , Willie , so to think and feel ? '' 
`` That is the new pain that troubles me , Willie . 
My father knew of our engagement , my mother told him all ; and , though he warned us all to secresy , he yet approved ; nay , Willie , I must tell you , he was very proud of it -- it promised to help him to the social position for which he had so much yearned . 
He said to me , ` The Sinclairs are among our first families -- rich , popular , distinguished ' -- but this did not lift my heart in pride . 
No , Willie , if I felt pride at all , it was only in the oneSinclair whom I so loved to think my own -- my own . '' 
`` Not exactly ; but we gathered enough from what he did say to learn that he was particularly anxious that it should not get to the ears of Richard Inglehardt . '' 
Willie , I wish I could not tell you that ! 
At first , he said , that there should be no engagement between us ; that there was an impassable wall between us -- that your father had grossly insulted him -- that he had treated him like a dog -- that your sister was the haughtiest woman breathing -- that she had not noticed him at all , or so contemptuously , that every word , and every look was an insult ; -- that , speaking of you , Colonel Sinclair told him that the subject was not one proper to his mouth ; that there could be nocircumstances which should justify him in adverting to you at all ; and when , it seems , my father mentioned , as delicately as possible , your attentions to me , then , that your father broke out in the wildest rage , and said that the whole suggestion was a lie , and that his son could never so much demean himself , as to think of the daughter of an Indian trader . 
said Sinclair with a sad interest in his look . 
But Willie , this makes no difference to me!Shall I enter a family which scorns me -- which holds my family in scorn -- which treats my father with contempt and abuse -- which wrongs the family of my mother -- and makes my very affections for you the means by which to do them dishonor ? '' 
He is also a man of violent passions when under provocation ; full of false notions of blood , and the victim of many prejudices . 
Your father finds him in this condition of mind and body , and -- without any preparation -- without any consideration of the condition of the subject -- without even respecting his political prejudices -- knowing too that Colonel Sinclair had personal prejudices against himself growing out of affairs that happened when the two served together in the war against the Cherokees -- he bluntly proposes a sort of trade , your heart and mine being articles of certain value to be set off against the claims of the British crown -- claims which , to an old loyalist , were paramount to all other considerations . '' 
`` And that sister , Willie ? 
but , Willie , the prejudice is still there . 
He had once met him at the house of Travis ; he had seen and felt that the latter was a formidable rival ; he had seen the love of Bertha Travis speaking out in eye , and lip , and gesture , without constraint , at the approach of this rival . 
`` That fierce old baron , Sinclair , is said to have his attic full to overflowing of the oldest in the country . '' 
He has wealth enough for it . 
But his case is a warning against old Madeira . 
He has a pipe of it in his legs -- gout-casks -- which he ca n't tap , and would n't willingly carry . '' 
Travis in a moment perceived that it meant really -- `` I know that you have been to see him lately . '' 
She is a young damsel , who has had very much her own way , and is tickled just now with certain girlish fancies , which persuade her that one Willie Sinclair , major of dragoons in the rebel service , is the only true God in the heaven of a young girl 's heart . 
At first , he did not recognise the new-comer , till the voice of Willie Sinclair made him known . 
He rejoiced at the meeting . 
He honored the young man -- honored his family position , and was right well pleased that his daughter 's affections squared so happily with his own projects and desires . 
Travis had actually found a spot , and had turned his back , about to sit upon the tree , when Sinclair grasped his wrist suddenly , and drew him away . 
He turned and looked where Sinclair pointed , and the crest of a rattlesnake , in his coil , was perceptible , raised directly behind the log where he was about to seat himself . 
Giving his bridle into the hands of Travis , Sinclair caught up a broken branch and brained the beast at a blow . 
-- for it will be to him only , in person , that I will confide my papers -- my facts -- proofs -- '' `` Read that billet , Captain Travis , '' said the major , handing him a scrap of paper -- `` you are acquainted with the handwriting , and will recognise the signature . 
But Sinclair regarded the expression of his satisfaction with suspicion . 
He knew not the full extent of Travis 's recent fears . 
Major Sinclair , if on youraccount only -- he shall be safe at my hands . 
When fairly dark , Sinclair ventured upon a doubtful ford across the river , which , as the water was low , enabled him to pass without difficulty . 
On the other side , knowing his route thoroughly , he made his way upward , some two miles , and , having reached a certain designated spot , he wound his bugle , and was delighted to hear an answering blast , only a few moments after . 
Is was not long before he was joined by ` Bram , his faithful negro . 
After a long and satisfactory conference with the negro , Sinclair followed him down to the river , where he found a canoe which ` Bram had appropriated from a neighboring plantation . 
Willie Sinclair , strong man as he is ; man of thought and action , purpose and performance ; honest patriot and brave partisan ; he , too , like the lovely creature with whose fingers his own paddled , could have dreamed away the livelong night in the pleasant commerce , but that there was that stern monitor called duty at his elbow , which kept up a continual undersong of exhortation , muttering in his ears at every period -- He started up , at length , impetuously , and with the air of one desperately shaking himself free from a pleasant thraldom . 
`` Why must you hurry , Willie ? 
`` You are always so eager to begone , Willie . '' 
And he laughed and caught her in his arms , and kissed her , and she pouted prettily . 
And the boy clapped his hands at the result of his suggestion , Sinclair dutifully doing as he was bidden , and getting soundly slapped for his offence . 
But , Willie , must you be going ? '' 
And mother wants to see you , Willie . 
I suspect that he is below at this very moment , but I would not willingly be assured of it . 
The precaution had been taken by Sinclair , to have this done before he entered . 
`` I 'll venture anything , Bertha , you never thought of giving him any supper . '' 
Meanwhile , our major of dragoons , had written out his despatches , whatever they were . 
He had just finished , and sealed them , when Mrs. Travis joined him in the office . 
When she appeared , and pronounced his name , he started up , and , with as natural a grace and ease , as if he had done the thing repeatedly before , he threw his arms about the matron 's neck , and inflicted a smart kiss upon her lips . 
Willie ! 
`` So soon , Willie ? '' 
Willie Sinclair had no affectations . 
His was one of those hearty , whole-souled spontaneous natures , which frankly deliver their true characteristics -- having no strategic tendencies in morals -- few or no reserves in respect to their own moods -- simply because there is no secret consciousness perpetually prompting concealment . 
He slashed away at the ham , tore the chicken asunder , swallowed pickle after pickle , as men of sanguine temperament are apt to do , and washed down his edibles with a copious draught of Jamaica , and this without mincing the matter , without any delicate hesitation , and scrupulous nicety because of the presence of his mistress . 
quoth Sinclair , coolly snatching up the ham-bone and the bottle of Jamaica , and , chewing as he went , he followed Bertha down stairs into the office , while Henry Travis proceeded to open for the strangers whose raps were now audible at the entrance . 
His wife would have retired , giving up the parlor to her guest and husband ; but this Inglehardt would by no means permit ; and Travis had no ready subterfuge by which to escape the necessity of taking his visiter , down stairs , `` on public business , '' to that office whither it had been always usual with them to go on such occasions . 
Could Sinclair have been forced to take shelter , under the formwhich sustained his enemy ? 
had the spies upon his steps , of whom Sinclair had spoken , followed the trail to his dwelling ? 
Had the espionage which he had long felt to be maintained upon himself , made and reported the discovery of Sinclair 's presence ? 
Well might he be anxious . 
His secret -- nay , his fate , hung upon a single hair . 
Sinclair readily conceived all the dangers of his own situation as certainly as did Travis ; but he got his couteau de chassein readiness , and felt that even strife would be a grateful relief from a position , in which , though with an arm about his beloved , he had stiffened from constraint . 
`` ` Faith , Captain Travis , I shall have to ask you for both your children , '' said Sinclair , lifting the boy up in his muscular arms , and kissing him . 
`` Do n't be jealous , Bertha , '' said the saucy urchin -- `` you shall have it as soon as he 's gone . '' 
`` I sha n't wait for that , saucebox , '' said the girl , slapping him on one cheek , while kissing the other . 
Sinclair announced the necessity for his immediate departure , and took Bertha by the hand . 
In another hour , Sinclair had despatched , by Abram , the missive which he had encountered so much risk to prepare . 
Of course , the black was properly schooled in his duties , and perfectly understood what was to be done . 
His task implied a canter of ten or twelve miles that night . 
was Sinclair 's query to himself , as he prepared to occupy the forest-camp of the negro , his good steed being his only companion . 
We must not omit to state that he had not sent ` Bram off without his supper , having brought with him the ham-bone and bread which he had so hastily appropriated , from the pantry of Mrs. Travis , when the alarm was given by the steeds of Inglehardt and his party . 
The steed concealed in the swamp thickets , and the boy left in charge of the boat , Sinclair , after sundry precautions , made his way up toward the settlement , giving his bugle a slight blast which brought Rowe out to him in the thicket . 
We will not pursue our major of dragoons for the present , satisfied that he wishes concealment , and that he will be active . 
We join him late in the day , when , having recrossed the river in Rowe 's canoe , paddled over by the negro-boy , his horse swimming beside the boat as before , he sped up on the route toward Holly-Dale . 
Thecool , sarcastic , contemptuous tyranny of Inglehardt , was momently strengthening the resolution of resistance and rebellion in the heart of Travis ; and preparing him to second the desires -- whatever they might be -- of Willie Sinclair and his associates . 
he muttered as he left the village . 
He rode briskly until he had nearly reached the spot where he expected to meet Willie Sinclair , when he subdued his paces , and was , after a little while , joined by the person he expected . 
Then he dismounted and led his horse into the woods . 
`` Well , major , '' said he impatiently -- `` have you heard ? 
And you , too , Willie Sinclair ! 
`` Now , who 'd a thought I 'd ha ' cotched Willie Sinclair hyar , when he 's throw 'd me off his trail everywhar else ? 
I could have shot him and Travis both -- always supposing that the we ` pon did n't miss fire , but there mought be a dozen troopers closing in upon me from the road . 
ef I could find out where Sinclair has hid away that hundred guineas that he tuk from Pete Blodgit . 
In course , he aint a-riding about with it now . 
`` But what if he axes me about that desartion , and is wanting to be hard upon me . 
I must make tarms with him first . 
He 'd be mighty smooth with me till he 'd sucked out my secrets , and then he 'd put on a grand look , and talk of example , and how decent and proper 't was to hang a man for desarting , jist to encourage other desarters . 
Sinclair , meanwhile , never once apprehending this new danger , sped downward , also , until he reached the forks of the road near Pen Branch , when he turned to the right , and sped in a northwest direction for a mile . 
Here he turned into the woods , found a hollow tree , which delivered him a letter , possessed himself of its contents , and having destroyed it , wheeled about , and returned upon his own steps till he gained the point where he had been accustomed to ford the river . 
He , however , rode on through the woods , which he thoroughly knew , at a trot , and was just descending the hill-slope to the swamp , when a pistol bullet whistled by his ears , the dull report , without echoes , following a moment after . 
His blood was roused . 
To dash into the thicket , on his right , whence the shot issued , was his first instinct , but he felt , the next moment , how absurd would be any attempt to discover the assassin in such a thicket , and amidst the increasing darkness . 
He crossed the river in safety , and was soon in the camp with Abram . 
said he , `` there are enemies on our track . 
Sinclair gave full directions to the negro , and the stout and faithful fellow had soon buried himself in the thickets below Holly-Dale , and was working his way downward , sly as a fox , stealthy as a serpent , and keen-eyed as a lynx . 
He had some two miles to go before he could reach the spot where Sinclair had escaped his peril . 
His master had ascended the bluff meanwhile , and stolen off to a little grove of cedars , where he was wont to meet with Bertha Travis and her brother . 
Here he laid himself down to wait . 
He looked up through the green foliage , at the stars , out upon the river , gliding downward with a pleasant murmur , softly bright , darkly clear , and with a wing of cooling speeding over its surface from the east . 
He threw his bosom wide to its penetrating freshness . 
His day had been one of toil , beneath a sky that seemed all one sun . 
He had scarcely rested from motion one hour in the twelve ; and the present respite , in that cool breeze , was something more than relief . 
It won him from musing into dreaming , in which all the images were delicious . 
Sinclair had never dreamed that he should be so surprised by the velvet-footed god , on the very threshold of his sweetheart 's dwelling , and when he came especially to see her . 
Sinclair slept profoundly , breathing easily and gently , as if no load lay upon his chest or conscience . 
`` The Trailer , '' after the escape of Sinclair , had contented himself with marking the trail , and then changed his ground . 
As a good scout , he knew too well the danger of lingering too long in the old form . 
He had mounted and made off within a quarter of an hour after . 
He had just resolved to give up the search , and return to his master , when , stretching out his body , for relief from the contracted position , he felt a heavy hand laid upon his shoulder from behind . 
The heart of the negro was in his mouth in an instant . 
He knew that the enemy , if such he were , had him at great advantage , and with a grunt , he muttered in low tones : -- `` Who dat ? '' 
He was relieved by a good-humored but subdued laugh , in the well-known voice of Jim Ballou . 
The three walked together across the bluff toward the cedars , and Sinclair and Bertha still lay sleeping side by side , her slender arm across his herculean breast . 
With a fling that shook the arm of Bertha from his bosom , Sinclair leaped to his feet , and drew his pistols . 
And everything was so quiet , and Henry was on the watch -- and -- and -- `` Say no more , dear heart , '' said Sinclair , taking her long tresses into his hands -- they had escaped the comb while she slept -- `` Say no more ! 
Sinclair listened to this narrative with close attention , interrupting it only when he desired fuller details in regard to particular facts . 
Sinclair lurked about the edges of the thin wood which lay between him and the river . 
Sinclair strode the ground to and fro , with impatience , anxiety , and a feverish vexation , which he could scarcely suppress from speech . 
`` Captain Travis , '' he said , `` is it possible that you do not see what you require me to put in peril -- the very destinies of the state ? '' 
He returned a moment after . 
It 'll put Willie Sinclair in your power ; and if rope 's the word , why you kin give him as many ties of it as you think proper . '' 
And we was sworn , both me and the Trailer , to hev ' this same Willie Sinclair . '' 
`` Well , 't was all owing to him , and I may as well say , right away , that he did it . 
'T was to git out of his roping that I had to walk into the fire , and lie down on the blazing lightwood . '' 
Well , I did n't ax about all sich matters , when I thought of the gould and silver at the Barony , and of them hundred gould guineas in the pockets of Willie Sinclair -- and he is no king 's man , as you know . '' 
so you knew that Willie Sinclair had a hundred guineas in his pocket ? 
I can well understand , now , why you have been hunting him so handsomely . '' 
In course , I knew about the guineas , and how and where he got them . '' 
Here he had to take another leap , and go back over a chasm in his narrative . 
The history was gradually unfolding itself clearly to his auditor . 
Use them sparingly ; the commodity is scarce , and will be scarcer , unless we can get the hundred which Sinclair carries in his pouch . '' 
I do n't reckon he carries it about with him all the time . 
He 's hid it away , I 'm jubous , when he went to Turkey hill . '' 
But look at them dirty little puppies '' -- casting a pair of pistols on the table -- `` and say ef one would be sensible to take a risk on sich we ` pons , at fifteen paces , agin two men , and one of them sich a man as Willie Sinclair ? '' 
`` Yes ; but it 's a word and a blow with Sinclair ; and I 've had the weight of his fist upon my ear once a ` ready . 
Bertha Travis shall be mine -- she shall never wed with Willie Sinclair . 
He shall die . 
Why did n't this rascal shoot him down even where he sate . 
At present he is not in the field , that we can see . 
He has eluded our vision . 
But , knowing him as we do , we may take for granted that his game occupies all his thought -- that he is somewhere , in some quarter of the field , making his preparations also -- exercising the uttermost forethought -- providing against possible reverses -- bringing all his faculties to bear against the coming necessity . 
He , too , has his stratagems , but they contemplate only single objects . 
He prefers the open to the sly game -- the manly to the merely cunning . 
His anxieties are great -- greater than those of Inglehardt , since he has a greater stake in the game . 
His night 's reflections have tended greatly to inspire him with the anxieties which oppressed Sinclair , and to make him feel the impending peril to his fortunes . 
He is somewhat touched too , by the reflection that his selfishness has been exacting ; and that , in holding Sinclair to the arrangements for the interview assigned for the afternoon , and under threatening circumstances , he has been unnecessarily tenacious of his own objects , to the great hazard of other parties . 
He has been a hard and exacting man always ; and he silences his self-reproaches , with the reflection that it is too late now to amend his fault . 
But his reflections have made him grave ; and secretly they have somewhat tended to the growth of a more trusting faith and more generous impulses in his heart . 
Having eaten breakfast in silence , he orders his horse , and calls Bertha Travis into his chamber . 
There he produces a little tin case which might contain a dozen sheets of paper folded compactly . 
He holds it in his hands for a short space in silence , as if doubtful of his purposes . 
Bertha gazes on him with anxiety . 
I could die cheerfully to-morrow were I sure that you were his wife , and safe in the honor of his name . 
why not at once join Willie Sinclair , and let us all fly across the Santee -- now , this very day , this hour ? '' 
Should I fail to be here when Sinclair arrives , give this letter and case into his hands . 
He knows what to do with them . 
She will put everything into his hands should I fail to appear at the appointed hour . 
Say to Sinclair that I leave everything to him , and have here given him the best proofs that I confide in the magnanimity of the person he will bring with him , to procure for my family the safety which I seek for them ; and now , my child , one kiss -- one embrace -- and leave me awhile with your mother . '' 
`` He has gone on a mission for Willie . 
He went by daylight this morning . '' 
`` Kiss him for me , Bertha . 
Love him well ! 
We may trust to his honor . 
More : it is my wish that his marriage with Bertha should take place -- if he is willing -- as soon as you can learn that I am in bonds or danger from Inglehardt . 
He has both in eminent degree . 
He is generous and noble . 
His conduct has shamed mine , and I have to deplore that its effect was too slowly felt to enable me to save him the peril which now threatens both of us equally . 
The stroke which places me at the foot of Inglehardt , will be one which will descend at the same moment upon his head . 
At all events , he is vigilant -- a man of great precautions -- and , I am in hopes , of resources adequate to the present exigency . 
In my letter to Sinclair , I have declared to him my wish that he should marry Bertha , without delay , if the proceeding conflicts with no earnest necessity or important policy of his own . 
I shall have him there , whether Travis stays or goes . 
Should I meet Major Willie Sinclair , I shall be most happy to send him on to you . 
A littlebefore three o'clock , Major Sinclair crossed the river in the dug-out , having with him a single companion . 
Leaving his companion in the hall , Sinclair stepped into the passage , and had hardly done so when he was met by Bertha . 
`` Have you seen my father , Willie ? '' 
Is he not here ? 
He was to meet us here at three . 
`` He is not here , '' answered Bertha , striving to conceal her uneasiness ; `` but I hope he will be back in season . 
He had to go down to Orangeburg this morning -- and -- and -- he seemed very much troubled -- very uneasy . 
if anything has happened to him . '' 
What should happen to him ? '' 
But he himself was apprehensive , and gave me some commissions to you , some papers -- here they are -- in the event of anything happening to prevent his presence . '' 
-- a moment , dear Bertha , '' as he took the papers and read the letter to himself . 
These papers are for another , and the sooner he has them , and examines them , the better . 
Sinclair hurried into the hall , and , with a few words , delivered the papers into the hands of his companion . 
He found that good lady calm but very serious . 
Sinclair , he anticipated something more . 
He was very much depressed , and his mind labored with some gloomy presentiments . '' 
`` And well he might entertain some forebodings . 
His relations naturally involve the idea of embarrassment and danger . 
But I see not -- Here Bertha interposed : -- `` Willie , I heard a horse -- horses -- I 'm sure . 
`` She is right , Willie . 
Willie , and you speak so coolly ! '' 
He came back with a slight smile upon his lips , and in a whisper -- `` You are right . 
He returned in a moment . 
`` Well , '' said he , `` bide your time , and on the first sound of struggle or confusion , make your way up-stairs to Bertha , and fasten yourselves in . 
`` Who is it , Willie ? '' 
I hope to take him easily . '' 
In a moment , Sinclair was back , and without a word , he snatched up a light coverlet from the bed , and again disappeared from the apartment . 
Mrs. Travis wondered what he should want with such an agent dealing with such an enemy , and while she wonders , and while the event is doubtful , let us retrace our steps a moment to some of the antecedents of the affair . 
`` I shall be able to manage him with these -- at all events , keep him at a distance with them till you can answer my bugle . '' 
Besides , we have him sure . 
With thirty troopers upon him , he can neither fight nor fly with any hope of safety . 
With knee upon the breast of the loyalist , Sinclair slipped a knot about his arms and feet , which put him completely hors-de-combat , then lifting him up , as if he were an infant , he bore him into the passage , and thence down the inner steps into the basement , where he laid him out gently upon the floor . 
Could he have wound his bugle , or shouted , his troopers would have rushed into the house instantly , and a few moments only would have been required for the work of destruction . 
An ordinary enemy , obeying an impulse , would have knocked the loyalist down , or tried to do so ; the ready wit of Sinclair found it better to roll him up . 
This was most effectually done , and the stifled cries of Inglehardt , with all his efforts , could not have been audible without the apartment . 
Scarcely had our major of dragoons succeeded in this operation , and in conveying his captive to the basement , when he heard the cheering voice of Bertha Travis , above-stairs , warbling snatches of a popular song . 
He did not wait for more , but , darting upward to the dining-room , he found Rutledge with pistols ready , his papers put away in his bosom , and his rapier drawn . 
Sinclair at once threw the bars into the staples , which secured the entrances to the house , front and rear ; then , as the enemy might enter the rooms at the windows from the piazzas , he locked the two doors , opposite each other , which opened into the passage , and hurried up-stairs also . 
Here , gliding to one of the windows he looked out into the court , taking care not to expose himself . 
Well , they shall now have mine ; '' and with the words , our major of dragoons poured out a lively tira-la tira-la , thrice from his bugle . 
At this moment , Sinclair discovered Bertha at his elbow , pale , but firm , and apparently taking position in the ranks , as if in waiting for her share in the fray . 
cried he -- `` Back , dearest -- you have no business here ! 
He darts down with his sabre ; smites right and left , and hurls one fellow over the banister ! 
The space between the parties reduced , his powerful size and strength , in that narrow passage , render him equal to half a score . 
Besides , he is on the elevation . 
He strikes downward , and this is an advantage . 
Sinclair kept his ground , midway the stairflight . 
He beheld the mele -- a glance was enough . 
He rushed down stairs , tore away the bar which secured the outer door , and , waving his broadsword aloft , darted out into the piazza , and down the steps -- shouting , at the topmost pitch of his voice , as he came forth : -- `` Hurrah ! 
Sinclair himself was now mounted , having seized upon a vacant saddle -- a steed that , in his fright and confusion -- had actually thrust his nose into one of the basement windows of the house . 
Once astride this animal , the spurs of Sinclair soon brought him to the right-about ; and he dashed forward with all his mettle , now quite recovered , in pursuit of his flying associates . 
But , even in that moment , a voice as loud , and clearer than his own , thundered out , at his very side : -- `` Spare them , Sinclair ! 
He , too , had seized upon a vagrant steed , and was now riding by Sinclair 's side -- an emptied pistol in his hand , no hat upon his head , his arm waving wide , as was its wont when he thundered in speech -- and his lofty person rising to the full majesty of the words which he had spoken . 
But here he found the boat which Sinclair had employed in his passage to and fro . 
He gladly availed himself of the opportunity which it offered him , and , having made the boy Julius first enter , he leaped in himself , and allowed the little vessel to drop down stream . 
His present place of refuge was favorable to any movement which he might desire to make , enabling him to steal back again to Holly-Dale , should he see fit -- and this was to depend wholly upon the number of fugitives which should join him at the bay -- to return to Orangeburg , should the conquering troop of Sinclair not take the same direction ; to put himself across the river , or go still farther down the stream , should the exigency of the case render it necessary that he should increase the distance between himself and his enemy . 
While Inglehardt had thus been stealing off in security , Sinclair had been busily engaged in reaping the field which he had won , and arranging his plan of future operations . 
Much had to be done , occupying considerable time , before he could rejoin the ladies . 
Mazyck , accordingly , had brought with him but twenty-five troopers ; but , when we add to these , some thirteen of Inglehardt 's squad -- raw fellows , but docile , who had accepted Rutledge 's offer of pardon for past offences -- the thirty-eight , all told , made a body sufficiently strong for present purposes . 
Under Sinclair 's eye , and seconding his charge , ` Bram had already shown that he could be a fearful customer . 
He had some scruples about the prudence and propriety of warfare , unless some dashing cavalier of the white race put himself in the van of battle . 
Having seen to his troopers , and ascertained the facts in his situation , Sinclair prepared , accompanied by Rutledge , to revisit the ladies , and relieve their anxieties . 
answered the girl , with anxiety and trembling -- `` Isall safe , Willie ? 
exclaimed Sinclair , staggered by the question , and at once reproaching himself for his seeming forgetfulness of the noble boy . 
Good Heavens , Willie , what is become of him ? 
Have you not seen him ? '' 
Yes , to be sure ; I saw him when I rode out to charge the enemy up the avenue . 
I saw him , then , and heard him shouting , and thought he followed me , but , in the excitement of the charge , I lost him ; and on my return , seeing no more of him , I concluded he had joined his mother and yourself . '' 
`` Oh , Willie ! 
Go , dear Willie , go seek and find him , and come back soon with him , for mother is in a wretched state of uneasiness . 
Hasten , Willie , while I go back and quiet her , with a hope that you will find and bring him soon . '' 
Sinclair readily conceived the policy of his enemy , from a knowledge of his character . 
The lower swamp itself could not be penetrated on horseback , or searched successfully by night , and Sinclair shook his head sadly as he thought that the poor boy might , even then , be held down , and half stifled , not a hundred yards distant , in some one of its deep recesses . 
But it was surprising how completely he had been lost sight of by everybody , in the moment when Sinclair himself lost sight of him ; -- the moment when the latter charged up the northwest avenue , in the final assault upon the only party of the loyalists who still showed am embodied front . 
Feeling some natural self-reproaches for his momentary forgetfulness of one so really dear to him as Henry Travis , and now greatly anxious for his fate , Sinclair hastened his proceedings for the search , and having made such arrangements as would tend to the better prosecution of his attempts , he soon disappeared with his command , meaning himself to lead the hunt , at all events until the party reached Four-Mile creek ; when it was his purpose , whether successful or not , to press down with the larger body of his men , by a rapid movement upon Orangeburg , fulfilling the objects indicated in his conference with Rutledge . 
The further search after the boy , if he was not recovered before reaching that point , was to be left to Ballou and ` Bram , with half a dozen of the best scouts from among the dragoons . 
He had heard the shout of Sinclair , and his own had answered it with an exulting sense of joyousness ; but the major , at that moment , was on one side of the house , he on the other ; Sinclair was dragging forth the horse of Fry , preparing to charge the only compact force of the enemy which still kept the field . 
We have seen the fruits of his mistake , in supposing that Sinclair was the only guest at Holly-Dale . 
It 's well , prehaps , whar thar 's any chaince of a skrimmage , to send one or two of 'em ahead jist to draw the bullets of the inimy ; but I reckon thar 's no bullets hyar to be drawn , except Sinclair 's , and the cappin is more in the way of his , jist now , than anybody else ; and all the scuffle a ` tween them will be over afore we need to put in . 
Willie Sinclair 's giving the fellows his lead ! 
But pistols ca n't do much in any man 's hands with hafe a dozen fellows on him . '' 
It 's Willie Sinclair , himself , as I 'm a born sinner ! 
you hear him shouting ! 
Now , whar 's the fellow , in all that squad , to face about and taste his broadsword ? 
ef I only had a good ducking gun to draw sight on him now , with fifteen pelters in the barrel ! '' 
But for this , and had Sinclair , the moment his victory was made sure , turned into the woods with his whole troop , there is little doubt that the outlaws would have been compelled to abandon their prisoner , in order to effect their own escape , and even then they would scarce have succeeded in the latter object . 
I reckon that 'll be the place where Willie Sinclair will be pushing , as soon as he gits his troopers all in hand after this chase . 
I reckon Sinclair divided , and one hafe of his troop 's pushing for the village , looking a ` ter us , and t ` other 's beating the bushes . '' 
I reckon he 's given Cappin Travis a touch of cold steel and laid him out under the bushes , and he 's taken a stretch alongside of him for company sake . '' 
`` You do n't suppose he 's murdered Travis ? '' 
`` Tai n't murder in wartime , captain , and he 's done it in self-defence . 
During all this while , Sinclair and his troopers , as we have seen , had been busy brushing the forest . 
This required the utmost decision , and the most prompt movement , in order to effect his object . 
Besides , greatly fatigued as he had been by his previous exertions , it demanded an extraordinary effort of will and energy to bring himself to any farther tasks . 
Itwas with a feeling of intense disappointment that Willie Sinclair found his search after Henry Travis fruitless . 
It was night still , and very dark , when his cavalry thundered up the streets . 
He was in despair . 
Willie , what of Henry ? '' 
`` But if he is hurt , Willie ? '' 
Sinclair renewed his assurances , his encouragements , the expression of his hopes , the grounds for their security . 
Willie Sinclair , will you not bring me back my boy ? '' 
But , suddenly , she grasped Sinclair by the wrist : -- `` It was this danger that he feared ! 
He would have provided for this very chance ! 
Here me , Willie . 
He bade me follow all its instructions in the event of his failure to return yesterday . 
Sinclair nodded his head affirmatively . 
`` His letter to me , '' answered Sinclair , `` is to this very effect . 
`` But how can I leave Holly-Dale , Willie , and no tidings of my child ? '' 
All this region will be under the control of the enemy , until we can come to blows with him , and , should we fail , you will be more at the mercy of the foe than ever . '' 
Willie , should he return , the poor boy , and find nobody to recieve him ! '' 
Of course , this notion of his voluntary return was combated as a great improbability , by Sinclair . 
`` He will not be suffered the chance to escape , my dear Mrs. Travis , by those who have him in captivity . 
Yes , Willie , I submit -- I confide ! 
God be merciful to me , Willie ! 
-- under him , I have now no hope but in you ! '' 
She threw her arms about his neck and sobbed upon his shoulder . 
`` And how , and when shall the marriage take place , Willie ? '' 
`` None just now , my dear mother ; -- and you , Bertha '' -- here he caught her hand -- `` do not you misunderstand me ! 
Willie Sinclair , I have ceased to think . 
`` Doubt you , Willie -- angry with you ! 
believe me , Willie . 
Though we never marry , Willie Sinclair , I am still yours , yours only ! '' 
The fraternity seemed very well pleased with the prospect as painted to them by Sinclair , but lest anything should be wanting in his delineations , ` Bram himself took up the parole , where his master finished , and discoursed to them after his own fashion of eloquence . 
Buckrah know someting , but he dun no ebbryting . 
Maussa , de major , is a bery sensible gemplemans , but he ai n't always know de reasonable occasions and argymentations for mek de ting clear and comprehensible to de infections and onderstandings of a regenerate nigger . 
Leaving him to pursue his course according to his own discretion , Sinclair addressed himself to such duties as remained to him at Holly-Dale . 
This had been a subject of some embarrassment with him till this moment , since the orders of Marion and Rutledge required his own presence at camp . 
They will also explain the urgency of that necessity which required Sinclair to make his way to the camp , subduing his feelings , and foregoing his own purposes , in obedience to those of the country . 
It was with no pleasant emotions that he prepared to depart from the pleasant homestead which still contained for him so many precious associations . 
Love -- and , dragoon as he was , he was by no means insensible to the tenderest infirmities of that all-subjugating passion ; -- apprehension -- for how could he anticipate the events which were to occur , of annoyance or positive danger , accompanying the doubtful progress of his sweetheart and her mother across the country ? 
Sinclair , of course , used all his resources and exercised all his forethought in order to meet the various duties before him . 
His fianceeand her mother he intrusted to the charge of one whom he knew to be a brave and good soldier and a noble gentleman ; in respect to Henry Travis , Jim Ballou , the best scout in the service , was upon his trail ; and he had no reason to doubt that ` Bram could worm his way across the country , so as to escape the troops of Stewart on the one hand and the forces of Rawdon on the other . 
At all events , whether satisfied with his arrangements or not , Sinclair was compelled to be content with what had been done , and , having given his last instructions to St. Julien , to prepare for his own hurried departure for camp . 
Perhaps , of all three , he showed the most despondency at parting . 
As it was , she could only implore Sinclair to activity , and he -- he could only promise , with , possibly , so many mental reservations , none of which he dared to express -- that the promise might well be regarded as a dream . 
But he did promise , and with the full purpose to perform . 
He was no laggard , no sham of a man ; but earnest , daring , resolute . 
Be sure that he will attempt -- do if possible -- much more than he ever promises . 
how calmly , sweetly , resignedly , she murmured her farewell upon his shoulder -- in his very bosom . 
Yet she schooled it into a subdued desire to be with him -- to see him perform the tasks of manhood -- strike for her brother -- rescue the dear boy from the enemy -- from his miserable captivity . 
How silent , sad , precious sweet , was their parting , as Sinclair rode off with his troop at break of day . 
`` Willie , '' was the murmur of the dear girl , `` oh ! 
Willie , remember my poor mother . 
The last words of the mother : -- `` Willie Sinclair , bring me back my boy -- my boy ! '' 
They rang in the ears of our major of dragoons at every step which increased the distance between him and Holly-Dale . 
And he was gone -- gone from sight -- and then , in the solitude of her chamber , Bertha Travis shed bitter , bitter tears . 
It was only with his departure that she grew hopeless . 
But the mother 's hopes seemed to grow with his absence . 
`` He will bring Henry back , '' she murmured to Bertha , in the lowest tones , as if she feared that the walls would hear and interpose . 
Here was Willie Sinclair dashing down with a smart troop upon Orangeburg ; another party up at Holly-Dale : there was no safety up or down for a matter of five miles . 
if Willie Sinclair had only knowd what I know ! 
How he could ha ' gobbled 'em up -- every mother 's son of 'em . 
Only half a mile from the village , sneaking round , just , I reckon , when he was a gutting it ! 
When Inglehardt and his party were all safely landed on the opposite side of the river the night when they were so closely pressed by Sinclair 's scouts , he at once called his companions into consultation . 
He was sustained by the conviction which he felt , that , though he himself was a loser in the game , his enemy was yet foiled in his attempts upon his daughter , Rutledge , and Willie Sinclair . 
He exulted , in his bonds , at the idea that Inglehardt had experienced a mortifying defeat , with the loss of nearly all his troop . 
He strove to think of Willie Sinclair and his hardihood , and his teachings ; of his daring valor ; the sweep of his great broadsword ; and that fierce cry of exulting rage with which he led the charge against the enemy , the first that the boy had ever witnessed ; and his young soul beat and bounded with the thought : -- `` Oh ! 
if Willie Sinclair would but come ! '' 
The dragoons of Willie Sinclair cut 'em down , right and left , just as the hurricane throws the trees . '' 
Willie Sinclair will see to that . 
He 's got enough of the tories in his hands to exchange for us a dozen times over . '' 
The tearful eyes of the boy looking up into his own , the tremulous eagerness of his lip , the soft , girlish delicacy of his cheek , its peachy hue -- all expressive of innocence and gentleness , such as we seek to protect from harsh encounter and biting winds -- made the father careful to sustain and encourage rather than depress his hope , and he said : -- `` Yes , Henry , there can be no question but that Willie Sinclair will soon relieve us . 
`` Let us look about , Willie . '' 
Trembling like a leaf in the winds of autumn , with the agitating apprehensions of his soul , Willie Sinclair leaped from his steed , and examined the ground more closely . 
At length , sickening as he spoke , Sinclair stooping , sank upon his knees , and cried out , in voice at once hoarse and feeble : -- `` Peyre ! 
He pointed as he spoke to a dark crimson puddle at his feet . 
`` Get up , Willie ! 
`` Do not reproach me , Willie ; let us be men now . 
For a few moments , Sinclair gave full way to his grief , in a wild burst of reproach and anguish . 
`` I will recover her , Willie Sinclair , or perish myself . 
`` Willie , let me prosecute the search . 
`` But , Willie , remember your responsibility . 
`` Willie , we are on the eve of a battle ! 
`` Let meseek and save her , dear Willie ; it is almost a right . 
But it was with great reluctance that he tore himself away , leaving to Willie Sinclair the task of pursuing the farther search , with the ten troopers , after his mistress and her mother . 
And murmuring thus ever as he went , Willie Sinclair dashed away on the supposed tracks of the fugitives , crossed the Caw-caw at the old mill-seat , and coursed up the road which led to Granby . 
It was with a feeling of great uneasiness that he resolved not to do so ; and with some misgivings , when he threw himself down beneath his tree that night , whether he had not been a little too exacting , in not tendering him the leave of absence , with his troop , which might better enable Sinclair to recover his mistress . 
He rode till night , sometimes fancying that he had recovered the tracks of the carriage , but much wondering at its rapid progress . 
He camped at night in a thicket near the trail , which he could no longer pursue in the darkness , and resumed the chase with the dawn . 
He rode half the day , but rode in vain . 
He had watched the road narrowly ; looked heedfully at every cross-road and turn-out ; searched or inquired at every house or hovel ; saw nothing ; heard nothing ; and , at the close of another day , was compelled to feel that he had lost all traces of the fugitives . 
Marion , meanwhile , with his brigade of mounted men , had recrossed the Caw-caw , and taken post on the north side of the creek which crosses the old Orangeburg road to Granby , four miles above the village . 
Here he awaited the approach of Greene , maintaining , all the while , a vigilant watch upon his enemy in Orangeburg . 
His cavalry was in such strength , compared to that of Rawdon , that his parties approached the village , and swept audaciously around it without challenge or pursuit . 
It was in the midst of the compliments of the party to the poet , that Willie Sinclair stole in to the table , and plucked the sleeve of Marion , who rose quickly and quietly , and went out with him in silence . 
He waits you without , along with General Marion . '' 
Willie Sinclair had proved himself as circumspect , vigilant and industrious as brave . 
He had cheerfully gone to his tasks and these were as various as exacting . 
He had calmly undertaken the most perilous situations , and had encountered their difficulties and dangers with an ability which had resulted , thus far , in the most perfect success , in all those respects which concerned the interests of the army and the country . 
He had won the admiration even of such admirable judges and performers as Rutledge and Marion . 
He gave Sinclair a full report of the resolves made in council , and mentioned the fact that , with Greene 's permission , Rutledge had reserved himself -LRB- Sinclair -RRB- with the corps of St. Julien , for special duties , which he had yet kept private . 
And they retired to a fallen tree on the edge of a thicket , and there seated themselves . 
Sinclair bowed as he took the paper . 
And he mused , and speculated aloud . 
His mind was once more beginning to work , under the practical coercion of that of Rutledge . 
The general plan of the raid contemplated by the partisans was unfolded , in all its necessary details , for Sinclair 's information ; and , in its examination , he gradually showed to his hearers that he was beginning to exert that will , the activity of which , Rutledge insisted , was necessary to keep him from prostration by disease . 
At length Marion said : -- `` Sinclair knows all that we need tell him , governor . 
Let him brood to-night -- what there is left of it -- over what he knows . 
He will have some leisure in the morning also , since none of the mounted men will take up the line of march until the infantry is sufficiently advanced . 
At the same time , Willie Sinclair , with the troop of St. Julien , was once more traversing , with measured steps , and keen scrutiny , the track pursued by the carriage of Mrs. Travis , to the moment when it turned aside for temporary refuge in the thicket . 
