Frances blushed yet deeper at this direct appeal to her opinions , upon a subject on which she had incautiously spoken in the presence of a stranger ; but , finding an answer necessary , after some little hesitation , and with a good deal of stammering in her manner , replied -- `` Only -- only -- sir -- my sister and myself sometimes differ in our opinions of the prowess of the British . '' 
Mr. Harper offered his hand to Sarah Wharton , and they entered the room together ; while Frances followed , greatly at a loss to know whether she had not wounded the feelings of her father 's inmate . 
-- `` None , certainly , '' said Frances , laughing with great pleasantry ; and taking the hand of her sister affectionately within both of her own , she added , with a smile directed towards Harper -- `` I gave you to understand , that my sister and myself differed in our political opinions -- but we have an impartial umpire in my father , who loves his own countrymen , and loves the British , so sides with neither . '' 
His eldest daughter was already admitted into the society of women ; but Frances , the younger , required a year or two more of the usual cultivation , to appear with proper eclat -- at least so thought Miss Jeanette Peyton ; and as this lady , a younger sister of their deceased mother , had left her paternal home , in the colony of Virginia , with the devotedness and affection peculiar to her sex , to superintend the welfare of her orphan nieces , Mr. Wharton felt her opinions were entitled to profound respect . 
Frances , however , wanted some months to the charmed age of sixteen ; and the idea of competition was far from the minds of either of the affectionate girls . 
Indeed , next to the conversation of Colonel Wellmere , the greatest pleasure of Sarah was in contemplating the budding beauties of the little Hebe , who played around her with all the innocency of youth , with all the enthusiasm of her ardent temper , and with no little of the archness of her native humour Whether it was , that Frances received none of the compliments which fell to the lot of her elder sister , in the often repeated discussions on the merits of the war , between the military beaux who frequented the house ; it is certain their effects on the sisters were exactly opposite . 
The first political opinions which reached the ears of Frances , were coupled with sneers on the conduct of her countrymen . 
At first she believed them ; but there was occasionally a general , who was obliged to do justice to his enemy , in order to obtain justice for himself , and Frances became somewhat sceptical on the subject of her countrymen 's inefficiency . 
Colonel Wellmere was among those who delighted most in expending his wit on the unfortunate Americans , and , in time , Frances began to listen to his eloquence with great suspicion , and some little resentment . 
It was on a hot sultry day , the three were sitting in the parlour of Mr. Wharton 's house , the Coloned and Sarah , seated on a sofa , engaged in one of their combats of the eyes , aided by no little flow of small talk , and Frances , occupied at her tambouring frame , in an opposite corner of the room , when the gentleman suddenly exclaimed -- `` How gay the arrival of the army under General Burgoyne will make the city , Miss Wharton . '' 
Frances shook back the abundance of her golden hair , and raised from the work her eyes , dancing with the ardor of her national feeling , and laughing , with a kind of concealed humour , as she asked -- `` Is it then so certain , that General Burgoyne will be permitted to reach the city ? '' 
Frances was at precisely that age , when young people are most jealous of their station in society ; neither quite a woman , nor yet a child . 
`` Pray , Colonel Wellmere , '' said Frances , recovering her good humour , and raising her joyous eyes once more to the face of the gentleman , `` was the Lord Percy of Lexington , a kinsman of him who fought at Chevy Chase ? '' 
Frances followed him into the hall , and blushing richly , inquired , in a hurried voice -- `` But why -- why do you leave us , Mr. Dunwoodie -- Henry must soon return . '' 
Between the open sarcasm of Frances , and the ill-concealed disdain of the young man , Colonel Wellmere had felt himself placed in an awkward predicament ; but ashamed to resent such trifles , and in the presence of his mistress -- he satisfied himself with observing superciliously , as Dunwoodie left the room -- `` Quite a liberty for a youth in his situation -- a shop-boy with a bundle , I fancy . '' 
`` I believe , '' said Frances , colouring highly , `` I mentioned the kind treatment received from your old friend , Major Dunwoodie ; and that he procured my father 's release . '' 
`` Peyton Dunwoodie hates no one , '' said Frances , quickly ; and , blushing at her own ardor , she added immediately , `` he loves you Henry , I know , for he has told me so again and again . '' 
`` Nonsense , '' said Frances ; and the remnants of the supper table soon disappeared under her superintendance . 
Frances had , indeed , thought there was something like a smile passing over the features of the traveller , when , on entering the room , he first confronted her brother ; but it was confined to the eyes , seeming to want power to affect the muscles of the face , and was soon lost in the settled and benevolent expression which reigned in his countenance , with a sway but seldom interrupted . 
Miss Peyton dropped the cup she was engaged in washing , from her hand ; and Frances exhibited the whole of that lovely face , which had hitherto only suffered one of its joyous eyes to be seen beaming with a colour that shamed the damask , which enviously concealed her figure . 
The praises of the ladies had drawn the whole person of the younger sister into view ; and Frances was slowly rising from the window , as Sarah repeated her question , with an exultation in her voice , that proceeded more from pleasure in her purchase , than her political feelings . 
Captain Wharton now involuntarily thrust his head between the opening of the curtains into the room ; and Frances , in turning her ear , in breathless silence , noticed the quiet eyes of Harper looking at the pedlar , over the book he was affecting to read , with an expression that denoted him a listener of no ordinary interest . 
-- The eye of Harper dropped quietly on the pages of the volume in his hand , while Frances , rising , came forward with a smile in her face , as she inquired , in a tone of affability the pedlar had never before witnessed -- `` Have you more of the lace , Mr. Birch ? '' 
The desired article was immediately produced , and Frances became a purchaser also ; by her order a glass of liquor was offered to the trader , who took it with thanks , and , having paid his compliments to the master of the house and the ladies , drank the beverage . 
Frances was the only observer of the change in the manner of Birch , and , on turning to Harper , he had resumed his book in silence . 
Frances took the hard and wrinkled hand of her nurse into her own ; and , with a face beaming with a look of pleasure that corresponded to the smiling countenances of the blacks , offered the service of her needle in fitting the admired calico to its future uses . 
Harper had dropped his book , and sat an admiring witness of the scene ; and Frances enjoyed a double satisfaction , as she received an approving smile from a face which concealed , under the traces of deep thought and engrossing care , the expression which characterizes all the best feelings of the human heart . 
The Captain was impatiently wishing Harper in any other place , than the one he occupied with such apparent composure ; while Miss Peyton completed the disposal of her breakfast equipage , with the mild complacency of her nature , aided a little by inward satisfaction at her possessing so large a portion of the trader 's lace -- Sarah was busily occupied in arranging her purchases , and Frances was kindly assisting her in the occupation , disregarding her own neglected bargains for the moment , when the stranger suddenly broke the silence by saying -- `` If any apprehensions of me induce Captain Wharton to maintain his disguise , I wish him to be undeceived -- had I motives for betraying him , they could not operate under present circumstances . '' 
Frances met him as he was about to withdraw , and , taking his hand between both her own , said with earnestness -- her cheeks mantling with their richest vermilion -- `` You can not -- you will not betray my brother . '' 
`` Let me tell you , '' replied the Captain gravely , `` a Lieutenant-Colonelcy in the Guards is a very pretty thing '' -- `` And Colonel Wellmere a very pretty man , '' cried Frances , with a laugh . 
`` Nay , Frances , '' returned her sister , `` Colonel Wellmere was never a favorite with you -- he is too loyal to his King to be agreeable to your taste . '' 
Frances took the hand of her sister , as she said -- `` and is not Henry loyal to his King ? '' 
inquired Frances , speaking in a low voice , unwilling to abandon what she thought the cause of her country , and yet unable to suppress her feelings for the man . 
exclaimed the young man , springing from his seat , and pacing the floor rapidly -- `` Frances you shock me ; suppose it should be my fate , even now , to fall into the power of the rebels -- you would vindicate my execution -- perhaps exult in the cruelty of Washington . '' 
said Frances solemnly , quivering with emotion , and with a face pale as death , `` you little know my heart . '' 
-- `` Pardon me -- my sister -- my little Fanny , '' cried the repentant youth , pressing her to his bosom , and kissing off the tears which had burst in torrents from her eyes . 
`` It is very foolish to regard your hasty words , I know , '' said Frances , extricating herself from his arms , and raising her yet humid eyes to his face with a smile -- `` But reproach from those we love is most severe , Henry -- particularly -- where we -- we think -- we know , '' -- the paleness of the maid gradually gave place to the colour of the rose , as she concluded in a low voice , with her eyes directed to the carpet , -- `` we are undeserving of it . '' 
Frances smiled faintly and shook her head , but made no reply . 
-- `` In Frances I see the picture of Major Dunwoodie -- and in Sarah '' -- `` Colonel Wellmere , '' interrupted the younger sister laughing , and blushing crimson . 
Frances was gazing at the scene with the desire of youth to escape from the tedium of confinement , when , as if by magic , all was still . 
Frances , who stood next him , alone heard the voice -- turning in amazement from the view to the speaker , she saw him standing bare headed , erect , and with his eyes to heaven ; there was no longer the quiet which had seemed their characteristic , but they were lighted into something like enthusiasm , and a slight flush passed over his pale features . 
There can be no danger apprehended from such , a man , thought Frances -- such feelings belong only to the virtuous . 
The pedlar turned his body from the view of most of the family ; but Frances noticed his glistening eyes and quivering lips , and , for the second time , Harvey rose in the estimation of the maid . 
To Sarah and her aunt he paid his compliments with ease and kindness -- but when he came to Frances , he paused a moment , while his face assumed an expression of more than ordinary benignity ; his eye repeated the blessing which had before fallen from his lips , and the maid felt her cheeks glow and heart beat with a quicker pulsation , as he spoke his adieus . 
said Frances in a low tone , `` jesting on such a subject is cruel . '' 
cried Frances with interest ; `` is he then known to Sir Henry Clinton ? '' 
`` I think , '' said Frances , adopting the manner of her brother , `` Harvey Birch is not without good feelings ; at least , he has the appearance of them at times . '' 
`` If you could sleep , '' said Sarah , `` you were more fortunate than Frances and myself -- every murmur of the night air sounded to me like the approach of the rebel army . '' 
Frances ventured to throw a timid glance at his figure as he entered , and saw at once the man , from whose scrutiny Harvey Birch had warned them there was so much to be apprehended . 
exclaimed Frances , with a face in which the roses contended with the paleness of apprehension for the mastery ; `` thank God ! 
The colour of Frances changed from the paleness of fear to the glow of hope -- her dread on behalf of her brother was certainly greatly diminished ; yet her form shook ; her breathing became short and irregular ; and her whole frame gave tokens of extraordinary agitation -- her eyes rose from the floor to the dragoon , and were again fixed immoveably on the carpet -- she evidently wished to utter something , but was unequal to the effort . 
`` Immediately , madam , '' answered the dragoon , withdrawing his admiring gaze from the person of Frances ; `` expresses are already on the road to announce to him our situation , and the intelligence will speedily bring him to this valley ; unless , indeed , '' he continued , contracting his lips , and looking droll , as he turned to Mr. Wharton , `` some private reasons may exist to make a visit particularly unpleasant . '' 
Miss Peyton looked on the gallant show with an exulting pride which arose in the reflection , that the warriors before her were the chosen troops of her native colony , while Frances gazed with an intensity of interest that absorbed all other considerations . 
The heart of the maiden beat with a pulsation nearly stifling , as he paused for a moment and took a survey of the building with an eye whose dark and sparkling glance could be seen in the distance between them -- her colour changed , and for an instant , as she saw the youth throw himself from his saddle , Frances was compelled to seek relief to her trembling limbs in a chair . 
The youth of Frances , when she left the city , had prevented her sacrificing , in conformity to the customs of that day , all her native beauties on the altar of fashion . 
Frances silently led the way into the vacant parlour opposite to the one in which the family were assembled , and turning to the soldier frankly , placing both her hands in his own , exclaimed -- `` Ah ! 
-- Frances , the probation you have decreed to my love is cruel -- war and distance may shortly separate us forever . '' 
Frances , you are cold to me -- me -- from whose mind days of service and nights of alarm have never been able to banish your image . '' 
`` Dear Dunwoodie , '' said Frances , softening nearly to tears , and again extending her hand to him , as the richness of her colour gradually returned , `` you know my sentiments -- this war once ended , and you may take that hand for ever -- but I never can consent to tie myself to you by any closer union than already exists , so long as you are arrayed in arms against my only brother -- even now that brother is awaiting your decision to restore him to liberty , or conduct him to a probable death . '' 
continued Frances , in a voice barely audible , and fixing on her lover a look of the deepest and most anxious interest . 
exclaimed Frances , losing all her former confidence in the most fearful apprehensions , `` what means this agitation ? '' 
as the Major slowly raised his face , in which was pictured the most expressive concern , she continued , `` surely -- surely -- you will not betray your friend -- my brother -- your bother -- to an ignominious death . '' 
`` Frances ! '' 
speak not so unkindly to me -- dearest Miss Wharton -- my own Frances . 
said Frances solemnly , and with a face of ashy paleness , `` you have told me -- you have sworn , that you loved me . '' 
`` Frances ! '' 
`` you wring my very heart ; '' then pausing for a moment to struggle with his feelings , he endeavoured to force a smile , as he added , `` but , after all , we may be torturing ourselves with unnecessary fears , and Henry , when I know the circumstances , may be nothing more than a prisoner of war ; in which case I can liberate him on parole . '' 
Frances having sufficiently recovered her recollection to command herself , now eagerly led the way into the opposite room , to communicate to her family the pleasing intelligence which she already conceived as certain . 
The abhorrence of being , in any manner , auxiliary to the arrest of his friend , the danger to the life of Captain Wharton , and the heart-breaking declarations of Frances had , however , created an uneasiness in the bosom of Major Dunwoodie , which all his efforts could not conceal . 
no , '' interrupted Frances , eagerly , forgetting all the circumstances in her anxiety for her brother ; `` Sarah and myself placed them on him when the dragoons appeared -- it was our awkwardness that led to his discovery . '' 
The appalled Frances shrunk back from between her brother and lover , where her ardent feelings had carried her , as the whole truth glanced over her mind , and sunk into a seat , gazing wildly on the young men who stood before her . 
Dunwoodie turned slowly towards the sisters , when the figure of Frances once more arrested his gaze ; she had risen from her seat , and stood again with her hands clasped before him in an attitude of intense interest : feeling himself unable to contend longer with his feelings , he made a hurried excuse for a temporary absence , and left the room . 
Frances followed him , and , obedient to the direction of her eye , the soldier re-entered the apartment in which had been their first interview . 
`` Major Dunwoodie , '' said Frances , in a voice barely audible , as she beckoned to him to be seated ; her cheek , which had been of a chilling whiteness , was flushed with a suffusion that crimsoned her whole countenance ; she struggled with herself for a moment , and continued , `` I have already acknowledged to you my esteem -- even now , when you most painfully distress me , I wish not to conceal it . 
Dunwoodie seized the hand which the blushing maid had in her ardour extended towards him , and pressed it for a moment to his bosom ; then rising from his seat , paced the room in excessive agitation , as he exclaimed -- `` Frances -- say no more -- I conjure you , unless you wish to break my heart . '' 
No intercession of mine will be wanting , you must well know ; and believe me , Frances , I am not without favour with Washington . '' 
`` That very paper , that abuse of his confidence , to which you alluded , will steel him to my brother 's sufferings . 
If threats or entreaties could move his stern sense of justice , would André have suffered ? '' 
Once only , as he wheeled his horse to ride over the ground in front , did Dunwoodie trust himself with a look at the cottage , and his heart beat with an unusual rapidity as he saw a female figure standing , with clasped hands , at a window of the room in which he had met Frances . 
In his heart , he was a devoted loyalist ; and when the blushing Frances had communicated to him the wishes of her lover , on their return from the American camp the preceding spring , the consent he had given , for her future union with a rebel , was as much extracted by the increasing necessity which existed for his obtaining republican support , than by any considerations for the happiness of his child . 
Should his son now be rescued , he would , in the public mind , be united with him as a plotter against the freedom of the states ; and should he remain a captive , and undergo the impending trial , the consequences might be still more dreadful . 
Much as he loved his wealth , Mr. Wharton loved his children better ; and he sat gazing on the movements without , with a listless vacancy in his countenance , that denoted his imbecility of character . 
Not so Frances -- she had returned to the apartment where she had left Dunwoodie , and , from one of its windows , been a deeply interested spectator of all his movements . 
Frances gazed until she could gaze no longer . 
To this party Frances determined to convey a note , directed to Dunwoodie . 
`` Major Dunwoodie , '' said Frances to her lover as he entered , `` I may have done you injustice -- if I have appeared harsh '' -- The emotions of the agitated girl prevailed , and she burst into tears . 
`` Frances , '' cried the soldier with warmth , `` you are never harsh -- never unjust -- but when you doubt my love . '' 
`` For my sake , '' replied Frances , in a voice barely audible , and dropping on his bosom . 
Frances threw herself on a sofa , buried her head under its cushion , and , with her shawl drawn over her face , to exclude as much of sound as possible , continued there until the shouts of the combatants , the rattling of the fire arms , and the thundering tread of the horses had ceased . 
Frances continued lying in the posture we have mentioned , offering up fervent and incoherent petitions for the safety of her countrymen , although in her inmost heart she had personified her nation by the graceful image of Major Dunwoodie . 
Frances had continued by herself , striving to exclude the uproar , and vainly endeavouring to summon resolution to meet the dreaded result . 
After witnessing the escape of his son , Mr. Wharton had joined his sister and eldest daughter in their retreat , and the three continued fearfully waiting news from the field . 
Unable longer to remain under the painful uncertainty of her situation , Frances soon added herself to the uneasy group , and Cæsar was directed to examine into the state of things without , and report on whose banners victory had alighted . 
Frances had stood supporting herself by the back of a chair , during this dialogue , catching , in breathless anxiety , every syllable as it was uttered -- her colour changed rapidly -- her limbs shook under her -- until , with desperate resolution , she inquired -- `` Is any officer hurt on -- the -- on either side ? '' 
`` Yes , '' answered the man cavalierly , `` these southern youths are so full of mettle , that it 's seldom we fight but one or two gets knocked over -- one of the wounded , who came up before the troops , told me , that Captain Singleton was killed , and Major Dunwoodie '' -- Frances heard no more , but fell back lifeless in the chair behind her . 
Frances now rose quickly from her seat , with cheeks glowing with confusion , and leaning on her aunt , was about to retire , when Dunwoodie himself appeared . 
To this there could be no objection , and Frances felt a chill at her heart , as her lover withdrew without casting a solitary look on herself . 
Frances had spent hours of anguish -- of torture , on behalf of Dunwoodie , and he now met her without a smile , and left her without a greeting . 
But the glance was unreturned , and Frances unconsciously sighed as she sought the solitude of her own apartment . 
As he spoke , he turned his eyes on Frances with an expression that again thrilled to the heart of the maiden -- she rose from her seat with burning cheeks , and said -- `` All the attention that can with propriety be given to a stranger will be cheerfully bestowed on your friend . '' 
He paused , mused in silence , glanced his eye uneasily at Frances , and muttered in an under tone -- `` Singleton requires it , and it must be done . '' 
In passing Frances , the maid received another of those smiling looks of affection she so much prized , and for a season she forgot the impression made by his appearance after the battle . 
Frances smiled with something of her natural archness of manner , as she contemplated the grotesque appearance of the bald-headed practitioner ; but Sarah was too much agitated , with the surprise of the unexpected interview with the British Colonel , to notice his attire . 
Frances , impelled by a restless inquietude , now timidly ventured on the piazza of the cottage . 
Frances recognised her lover , and with the truth , came other recollections that drove her to her room , with a heart as sad as that which Dunwoodie himself bore from the valley . 
`` But Captain Lawton is the officer we saw this morning , and is surely your friend , '' said Frances hastily , observing her aunt to be dreadfully alarmed . 
Frances smiled archly , but averted her face to do so , while Sarah moved haughtily , and with the stately grace of an offended Juno , from the apartment . 
Frances fixed her laughing eyes on her sister , who , meeting their playful glance as they turned in their walk , blushed yet deeper than before as she added hastily ; `` but I forget he is one of this renowned corps of Virginians , and as such must be spoken reverently of . '' 
`` As respectfully as you please , my dear sister , '' returned Frances mildly ; `` there is but little danger of your exceeding the truth . '' 
`` True , true , '' interrupted Frances hastily , and blushing to the eyes ; `` but he leaves his room , and thinks his wound lightly purchased by the pleasure of being with his friends -- if , '' she added with a tremulous lip , `` this dreadful suspicion that is affixed to his visit were removed , I could feel his wound as nothing . '' 
Frances continued her walk in silence . 
Frances lost her brilliancy of colour as the vehicle gradually drew nigher , and when she was enabled to see a female form in it by the side of a liveried black who held the reins , her limbs shook with an agitation that compelled her to lean on Sarah for support . 
Miss Peyton advanced to receive their guest , and the sisters united in giving her the kindest welcome ; still Frances could with difficulty withdraw her truant eyes from reading the countenance of the visitor . 
Frances had stood contemplating the action and face of Isabella with a kind of uneasy admiration , but she now sprang to her side with the ardor of a sister , and kindly drawing her arm in her own , led the way to a retired room . 
Isabella yielded to the gentle influence of Frances without resistance , and having gained the room where the latter conducted her , wept in silence on the shoulder of the observant and soothing maiden , until Frances thought her tears exceeded the emotion natural to the occasion . 
The sobs of Miss Singleton for a time were violent and uncontroulable , until with an evident exertion she yielded to a kind observation of her companion , and succeeded in suppressing her tears : raising her face to the eyes of Frances , she rose , while a smile of beautiful radiance passed over her features , made a hasty apology for the excess of her emotion , and desired to be conducted to the room of her brother . 
Isabella found her brother looking better , and in less danger than her sensitive imagination had led her to suppose , and her spirits rose in proportion ; from despondency she passed to something like gayety ; her beautiful eyes sparkled with renovated brilliancy , and her face was lighted with smiles so fascinating , that Frances , who , in compliance with her earnest intreaties , had accompanied her to the sick chamber , sat gazing on a countenance that possessed such wonderful variability , as if impelled by a charm that was beyond her control . 
The youth had thrown an earnest look at Frances as soon as his sister had raised herself from his arms , and perhaps it was the first glance at the lovely lineaments of the maiden , where the gazer turned his eyes from the view in disappointment ; pausing a moment , during which the wandering eyes of Singleton were bent on the open door of the room , he said , as he took the hand of his sister affectionately -- `` And where is Dunwoodie , Isabella ? 
Isabella made no reply , but stretched forth her hand towards the table which held the nourishment of the captain , and the attentive Frances comprehended her wishes in a moment ; a glass of water in some measure revived the sister , who , smiling faintly , was enabled to say -- `` Doubtless it is his duty . 
His look was changed to the face of Frances , who , startling with the earnestness of his expression , arose , and hastily inquired if he would have any assistance . 
Frances hastened instantly to communicate his wish to that gentleman , and impelled by an anxious interest she could not control , returned again to her seat by the side of Miss Singleton . 
`` Speak , I beg , sir , without dread of my displeasure , '' said Frances , withdrawing her eyes from the countenance of Miss Singleton , and returning the good-humoured smile of the trooper with the natural archness of her own lovely face . 
After making a proper apology to the stranger , Frances withdrew to seek her aunt , musing deeply on the character and extreme sensibility of the new acquaintance chance had brought to the cottage . 
Frances , we have already mentioned , left the city before she had attained to the age of fashionable womanhood . 
Frances several times had determined , in the course of the morning , to bestow more than usual pains in the decoration of her person . 
Colonel Wellmere was honoured with a smile from Sarah while performing a similar duty ; and Frances gave the ends of her taper fingers to Captain Lawton with a manner , that said so much to the corps , and so little to the man . 
The health was drank cheerfully by all but Colonel Wellmere , who wet his lips , and drew figures on the table with some of the liquor he had spilt ; and Frances thought deeply on the manner of doing , what in itself would have excited no suspicions . 
The suddenness of the movement somewhat appalled the trooper , and he stammered out an apology to Frances , who stood next him , which the laughing maid received very good-naturedly out of regard to the coat he wore , although she knew it would afford matter of triumph to her sister for a month to come . 
Frances had stood at the window of her own apartment , watching the slow progress of the funeral procession , with a melancholy that was too deep to be excited by the spectacle . 
The apartment of Miss Singleton communicated with the room occupied by the sisters , through a private door , as well as through the ordinary passage of the house ; this door was partly open , and Frances moved towards it with the benevolent intention of ascertaining the situation of her guest , when the surprised girl saw her , whom she had thought to be sleeping , not only awake , but employed in a manner that banished all probability of present repose . 
Frances hardly breathed , as she was enabled , by a movement of Isabella , to see that it was the figure of a man in the well known dress of the southern horse ; but she gasped for breath , and instinctively laid her hand on her heart to quell its throbbings , as she thought she recognised the lineaments that were so deeply seated in her own imagination . 
Frances felt she was improperly prying into the sacred privacy of another , but her emotious were too powerful to permit her to speak , and she drew back to a chair , whence she still retained a view of the stranger , from whose countenance she felt it to be impossible to withdraw her eyes . 
The expression of the countenance of the fair stranger was so changeable , and the transitions were so rapid , that Frances had scarcely time to distinguish the character of the emotion , before it was succeeded by another equally powerful , and equally attractive . 
Her figure was now hid from the view of Frances , who was about to rise and approach her guest , when tones of a thrilling melody chained her in breathless silence to the spot . 
Frances abandoned her whole soul to the suppressed melody of the music , though the language of the song expressed a meaning , which united with certain events of that and the preceding day , left a sensation of uneasiness in the bosom of the warm-hearted girl , to which she had hitherto been a stranger . 
A glow of fire lighted the countenances of both at the same instant , and the blue eye of Frances met the brilliant black one of her guest for a single moment , and both fell in abashed confusion on the carpet ; they advanced , however , until they met , and had taken each other 's hand , before either ventured again to look her companion in the face . 
`` Tis thought you have little to apprehend for your brother , '' said Frances , in the same embarrassed manner ; `` had you seen him when he was brought in by Major Dunwoodie '' -- Frances paused with a feeling of conscious shame , for which she could not account herself , and in raising her eyes , she saw Isabella studying her countenance , with an earnestness that again drove the blood tumultuously to her temples . 
Once more Frances ventured to look her guest in the face , and again she met the piercing eyes bent on her as if to search her inmost heart . 
`` He is my relative , '' said Frances , appalled at the manner of the other . 
`` Our parents were cousins , '' replied Frances , in still greater confusion at the vehemence of Isabella . 
Frances felt her pride awakened by this direct attack upon the delicacy of her feelings , and she raised her eyes from the floor to her interrogator a little proudly , when the pale cheek and quivering lip of Isabella removed her resentment in a moment . 
There was a plaintive earnestness in the voice of Miss Singleton , that disarmed Frances of all resentment , and the only answer she could make was hiding her burning face between her hands , as she sunk back in a chair to conceal her confusion . 
Isabella paced the floor in silence for several minutes , until she had succeeded in conquering the violence of her feelings , when she approached the place where Frances yet sat , endeavouring to exclude the eyes of her companion from reading the shame expressed in her countenance , and taking the hand of the maid , she spoke with an evident effort at composure . 
`` Pardon me , Miss Wharton , if my ungovernable feelings have led me into impropriety -- the powerful motive -- the cruel reason '' -- she hesitated ; Frances now raised her face , and the eyes of the maids once more met -- they fell in each other 's arms , and laid their burning cheeks together -- the embrace was long -- was ardent and sincere -- but neither spoke -- and on separating , Frances retired to her own room without farther explanation . 
The despair and misery of Frances , were constantly before his eyes , and fifty times he was tempted to throw himself on his horse , and gallop to the Locusts , but an uncontrollable feeling of delicacy prevented him . 
In obedience to the commands of his superior , an officer , with a small party , was sent to the cottage to conduct Henry Wharton to the place directed , and the gentleman who was entrusted with the execution of the order , was charged with a letter from Dunwoodie to his friend , containing the most cheering assurances of his safety , as well as the strongest pledges of his own unceasing exertions in his favour . 
Frances had followed the party which guarded her brother at a distance , and as they vanished from her sight she felt as if deserted by all that she most prized in this world . 
`` Frances -- my own Frances ! '' 
echoed her lover in amazement , `` are you not mine -- by the consent of your father -- your aunt -- your brother -- nay , by your own consent , my sweet Frances . '' 
`` I wish not , Major Dunwoodie , to interfere with the prior claims that any other lady may have to your affections , '' said Frances , motioning to return . 
`` Am I a villain , Miss Wharton , that you receive me with such language -- when have I ever deceived you , Frances -- who has practised in this manner on your purity of heart ? '' 
`` Frances , I see how it is that you have deceived yourself , '' cried Dunwoodie , his face in a glow of fire ; `` you do me injustice , I swear by all that is most dear to me , that you do me injustice . '' 
`` Flatter not yourself that the task is so easy , sir , '' returned Frances , moving towards the cottage ; `` we converse together , in private , for the last time ; -- but my father would gladly welcome my mother 's kinsman . '' 
You drive me from you , Frances , in despair . 
So saying he had already placed his foot in the stirrup , but his mistress turning on him a face that was pallid with emotion , and an eye that pierced his soul with its thrilling expression , arrested the action , and he paused . 
echoed the youth , springing to her side , and offering to take her hand in his own . 
Frances having , however , recovered herself , coldly repulsed him , and continued her walk homeward . 
Frances stopped short in her walk , and turned on her lover a look of so much purity and feeling , that , heart-stricken , Dunwoodie would have knelt at her feet for pardon ; but motioning him for silence , she once more spoke -- `` Hear me , Major Dunwoodie , for the last time ; it is a bitter knowledge when we first discover our own inferiority ; but it is a truth that I have lately learnt . 
Frances had , with the keen eye of jealous love , easily detected the attachment of Isabella Singleton to Dunwoodie . 
Delicate and retiring herself as the fairest visions of romance had ever portrayed her sex , it never could present itself to the mind of Frances , that this love had been unsought . 
Dunwoodie had no sooner disappeared , than our heroine felt all the misery of her situation ; and if the youth found some relief in the cares of his command from his anxiety of mind , Frances was less fortunate in the performance of a duty imposed on her by filial piety . 
-- The removal of his son had nearly destroyed the little energy of Mr. Wharton , who required all the tenderness of his remaining children to convince him that he was able to perform the ordinary functions of life . 
Frances felt herself impelled towards their disconsolate guest , with an interest for which she could not account , and with a force that she could not control . 
Frances glided about , tearful , and agitated , while Mr. Wharton stood ready to receive them , decked in a suit of velvet , that would have been conspicuous in the gayest drawing-rooms on the continent . 
All arose from their seats , and the reverend gentleman had already opened the volume in his hand , when the absence of Frances was noticed : Miss Peyton again withdrew in search of her niece , whom she found in her own apartment , and in tears . 
cried Frances , in a burst of emotion , and throwing herself into the arms of the spinster . 
Frances had given vent to her feelings , and , with an effort , she collected sufficient resolution to venture again to join the expecting party below . 
In this stage of the dilemma , Miss Peyton and Frances appeared . 
The surgeon of dragoons approached the former , and as he hand ed her to a chair , observed -- `` It appears , Madam , that untoward circumstances have prevented Colonel Wellmere from providing all of the decorations that custom , antiquity , and the canons of the church , have prescribed as indispensable to enter into the honourable state of wedlock . '' 
The spinster , therefore , retained the secret from a regard to decorum , Sarah from feeling , and Frances from both , united to dissatisfaction at the connexion . 
`` They shall , '' cried Isabella , taking the lead in the enterprise , and Frances was left alone with her sister . 
cried Frances , in terror ; `` my sister -- my only sister -- Oh ! 
Frances dropped her head into the lap of her sister , and wept in agony . 
Frances sprang on her feet , and paced the apartment in a bitterness of sorrow that she could not controul . 
`` Sarah -- peace , peace -- I implore you to be silent , '' shrieked Frances , again rushing to her bed , `` or you will kill me at your feet . '' 
Frances flew to one of them , and saw the confused group that was collected on the lawn . 
The instant that Frances recovered her recollection , she perceived that it was to Lawton she owed her life , and throwing herself on her knees before him , she cried -- `` Sarah , Sarah , Sarah ! 
His question was put to the air , for Frances was removed to the opposite side of the building , where her friends were collected , and Lawton once more had disappeared in the smoke . 
`` Here is no bride , no rejoicing , nothing but woe , '' cried Frances , in a manner but little less frantic than that of her sister ; `` Oh ! 
`` No , no , no , '' cried Frances , `` it is fever -- she is light-headed -- she must recover -- she shall recover . '' 
The operator was found enquiring among the men for professional employment , and inquisitively examining every bruise and scratch that he could induce the sturdy warriors to acknowledge they had received . 
A summons of the sort conveyed by Katy was instantly obeyed , and not a minute elapsed before he was by the side of Miss Peyton . 
Madam , '' he observed , with a soothing manner ; `` but war must bring its attendant miseries , though doubtless it often supports the cause of liberty , and improves the knowledge of surgical science . '' 
`` 'T is fever , '' answered Frances , `` see how glassy is her eye , and look at her cheek , how flushed . '' 
The surgeon stood for a moment deeply studying the outward symptoms of his patient , and then silently took her hand into his own . 
It was seldom that the hard and abstracted features of the operator discovered any violent emotion ; all his passions seemed schooled to the most classical dignity , and his countenance did not often betray what his heart so frequently felt . 
After laying his fingers for a minute on the beautiful arm , which , bared to the elbow , and glittering with jewels , Sarah suffered him to retain , he dropped it with a heavy sigh , and dashing his hand over his eyes , turned sorrowfully to Miss Peyton as he said -- `` Here is no fever to excite -- 't is a case , my dear madam , for time and care only ; these , with the blessing of God , may effect a cure . '' 
It was necessary to support her to the room intended for the ladies ; but the instant she was placed on the seat where her sister sat , she passed an arm affectionately around the waist of Frances , and pointing slowly with the other , said in an under tone -- `` See , this is the palace of his father ; here is the light of a thousand torches -- but no bridegroom . 
When Miss Peyton and Frances flew to her assistance , they found her with a smile on her pallid lips , and a composure in her countenance , that induced them to think her uninjured . 
Isabella pressed her hands upon her bosom , still smiling , but with a ghastliness that curdled the blood of Frances , and said -- `` Is George far distant ? 
At her earnest request the room was left to herself , the captain , and Frances . 
The repeated applications of the surgeon to be permitted to use professional aid were steadily rejected , and , at length , he was obliged unwillingly to retire . 
Still Frances , as she leaned over her in sorrow , thought that the expression was changed . 
Frances silently complied , and Isabella turned her eyes in sisterly affection upon George -- `` It matters but little , my brother -- a few hours must close the scene . '' 
`` Nay , '' said Frances tenderly , `` compose yourself -- let no desire to oblige me endanger a life that is precious to -- to -- so many . '' 
`` Oh , there is even now little left for me to enjoy , '' said Frances , burying her face in the clothes ; `` I am heart-stricken in all that I most loved . '' 
It is a delusion that nothing but death can destroy -- '' Exhaustion compelled her to pause , and her auditors continued in breathless suspense until , recovering her strength , she laid her hand on that of Frances , and continued more mildly -- `` Miss Wharton , if there breathes a spirit congenial to Dunwoodie 's , and worthy of his love , it is your own . '' 
Neither Frances , nor her brother , interrupted her meditations , which continued for several minutes ; when , suddenly recollecting herself , she continued -- `` I remain selfish even to the last ; with me , Miss Wharton , America and her liberties was my earliest passion , and -- '' again she paused , and Frances thought it was the struggle of death that followed ; but reviving , she proceeded with a flush on her face that exceeded the bloom of health , `` Why should I hesitate on the brink of the grave ! 
`` Say no more , '' whispered Frances ; `` you distress us both -- say no more , I entreat you . '' 
Frances Wharton had thought that fate had done its worst , in endangering the life of her brother , and destroying the reason of her sister , but the relief that was conveyed by the dying declaration of Isabella , taught her that another sorrow had aided in loading her heart with grief . 
It is not the nature of youth , however , to despair , and Frances knew a secret joy in the midst of their distress , that gave a new spring to her existence . 
The sun broke forth , on the morning that succeeded this night of desolation , in unclouded lustre , and seemed to mock the petty sorrows of those who received his rays . 
A few of the neighbouring inhabitants collected from curiosity and interest , and Miss Peyton and Frances wept in sincerity over her grave . 
Willing to relieve her own melancholy by breathing a fresher air , and also to lessen the weight , Frances alighted , as they reached the foot of a mountain and found that Katy had made similar preparations , with the like intention of walking to the summit . 
`` There has been blood upon earth , Katy , '' returned the shuddering Frances , `` though but little I imagine is ever seen in the clouds . '' 
I do not pretend to understand , myself , all the merits of this war , Katy , '' said Frances pausing , and blushing with the consciousness of whence it was that she had derived her opinions ; `` but to me it seems unnatural , that a country like this should be ruled by another so distant as England . '' 
Frances glanced her eye at her companion with an interest altogether new to her , and with an apparent desire to hear more , observed -- `` There are rumours abroad relative to the character of Harvey , that I should be sorry were true . '' 
`` Nay , nay , '' returned the smiling Frances -- `` I have no such injurious suspicion of him ; but has he not sold himself to an earthly prince , one good and amiable I allow , but too much attached to the interests of his native island to be always just to this country ? '' 
`` True , '' said Frances , `` but not in secret -- openly , manfully , and bravely . '' 
`` 'T is false , '' exclaimed Frances , her eyes lighting with extraordinary animation , and the colour rushing to her face , until even her fine forehead glowed with fire ; `` no act of deception is worthy of my brother , nor of any would he be guilty , for so base a purpose as gain or promotion . '' 
`` Then you acknowledge his connexion with the British army , '' said Frances ; `` I confess there have been moments when I have thought differently . '' 
Then , here , the other day , when the great British general -- I 'm sure I have been so flurried with losses and troubles , that I forget his name -- '' `` André , '' said Frances , in a melancholy tone . 
To this speech Frances made no reply , but continued her walk up the hill , deeply engaged in her own reflections . 
The dying declarations of Isabella had left an impression on the mind of Frances that influenced her whole deportment . 
They now reached the highest point in their toilsome progress to the summit , and Frances seated herself on a rock to rest and to admire , Immediately at her feet lay a deep dell , but little altered by cultivation , and dark with the gloom of a November sun-set . 
-- While yet lost in the astonishment created by discovering a habitation for man in such a spot , Frances , on moving her eyes , perceived another object that increased her wonder . 
After looking at it a moment in breathless wonder , Frances had just come to the conclusion that it was ideal , and that what she saw was part of the rock itself , when the object moved swiftly from its position , and glided into the hut , at once removing any doubts as to the nature of either . 
Whether it was owing to the recent conversation that she had been holding with Katy , or some fancied resemblance that she discerned , Frances thought , as the figure vanished from her view , that it bore a marked likeness to Birch , moving under the weight of his pack . 
In a few words he explained to Frances , that he had been ordered up , with a party of Lawton 's men , in the absence of the captain himself , to attend the trial of Henry , which was fixed for the morrow , and that anxious for their safety in the rude passes of the mountain , he had ridden a mile or two in quest of the travellers . 
Frances explained , with blushing cheeks and trembling voice , the reason of her being in advance , and taught him to expect the arrival of her father momentarily . 
Notwithstanding their apprehensions , they succceded so far in concealing them , that neither Miss Peyton , nor Frances , was aware of their extent . 
Frances experienced a feeling like suffocation , as , after taking her seat in the midst of her family , her eyes wandered over the groupe who were thus collected . 
This was the president of the court , and Frances , after taking a hasty and unsatisfactory view of his associates , turned to his benevolent countenance , as the harbinger of mercy to her brother . 
A profound and awful silence succeeded his entrance , and the blood of Frances chilled in her veins . 
Frances turned for a moment , in grateful emotion , as the deep and perturbed breathing of Dunwoodie reached her ear ; but her brother again concentrated all her interest into one feeling of intense care . 
`` A soldier , Captain Wharton , '' exclaimed the veteran , in proud exultation , `` should never meet his enemy but openly and with arms in his hands . 
To Henry , there now remained but little hope ; his confidence in his security was fast ebbing , but with an indefinite expectation of assistance from the loveliness of his sister , he fixed an earnest gaze on the pallid features of Frances . 
Raising her hand to her polished forehead , Frances threw aside her exuberant locks , and displayed a beauty and innocence to their view , that was unrivalled . 
said Frances , pressing her hand on her brain , as if to collect her thoughts ; `` he told me nothing -- we knew not of the visit until he arrived ; but can it be necessary to explain to gallant men , that a child would incur hazard to meet his only parent , and that in times like these , and in a situation like ours . '' 
`` Certainly -- certainly , '' cried Frances , catching the expression of his own benevolent countenance . 
This is but the fourth of his visits . '' 
exclaimed the veteran , rubbing his hands with delight ; `` an adventurous , warmhearted son -- I warrant me , gentlemen , a fiery soldier in the field . 
`` But Harvey Birch , '' repeated Frances , gazing wildly at the door through which her lover had disappeared . 
cried Frances , clasping her hands in terror ; `` do you desert us ? 
said Frances wildly ; `` would Washington -- the noble -- upright -- impartial Washington , judge so harshly ? 
echoed Frances , `` then you are a father , and know how to pity a father 's woes ; you can not , will not , wound a heart that is now nearly crushed . 
Frances eagerly strove to read the expression of his averted face , and resisted all his efforts to retire . 
shrieked Frances ; `` can you tear a son from his parent ? 
`` Lead on , gentlemen , '' motioning towards the door , erecting himself into an air of military grandeur , in the vain hope of quieting his feelings . 
`` Lead not on , but hear me , '' cried Frances , grasping his hand convulsively ; `` Colonel Singleton you are a father ! 
On recovering , he gave the senseless Frances into the arms of her aunt , and turning with an air of fortitude to his comrades , he said -- `` Still , gentlemen , we have our duty as officers to discharge ; -- our feelings as men may be indulged hereafter . 
One of the judges placed in his hand a written sentence that he had prepared , while the Colonel was engaged with Frances , and declared it to be the opinion of himself and his companion . 
Mr. Wharton wept in hopeless despondency over the untimely fate of his son , and Frances , after recovering from her insensibility , experienced an anguish of feeling to which the bitterness of death itself would have been comparatively light . 
Peyton , '' cried Frances as he entered the apartment ; `` you look like a messenger from heaven : bring you tidings of mercy ? '' 
`` Here , Frances -- here , Henry -- here , dear cousin Jeannette , '' cried the youth , as with trembling hands he broke the seal ; `` here is the letter itself , directed to the captain of the guard . 
But listen '' -- All did listen , with intense anxiety ; and the pang of blasted hope was added to their misery , as they saw the glow of delight which had beamed on the countenance of the Major on his entrance , give place to a look of astonishment and terror . 
cried Frances , in the piercing tones of despair , sinking into the arms of her aunt . 
`` I have been deceived in him , '' cried Frances . 
`` Peace , dear Frances ; peace , for God 's sake ; use not such language , '' cried her lover . 
`` He is but the guardian of the law . '' 
`` This good aunt has claims upon you already ; of her I will not speak ; but here , '' taking the hand of Frances , and dwelling upon her countenance with an expression of fraternal affection -- `` Here is the choicest gift of all . 
The Major could not repress the eagerness with which he extended his hand to receive the precious boon , but Frances shrinking from his touch , hid her face in the bosom of her aunt , as she murmured -- `` No , no , no -- none can ever be any thing to me , who aid in my brother 's destruction . '' 
`` It is -- it is , '' whispered Frances , burying her face still deeper in the bosom of her aunt . 
`` No , no , no , '' cried Frances , quickly ; `` you are exonerated , Peyton -- with her dying breath she removed my doubts . '' 
`` I can not spare myself , '' returned the brother gently removing Frances from the arms of her aunt . 
-- Their abode is destroyed , and misery will speedily deprive them of their last male friend , '' looking at his father ; `` can I die in peace , with the knowledge of the danger to which they will be exposed ? '' 
-- The good woman who lives in this house has already despatched a messenger for a man of God , to smooth my passage to another world ; -- Frances , if you would wish me to die in peace -- to feel a security that will allow me to turn my whole thoughts to heaven , you will let this clergyman unite you to Dunwoodie . '' 
Frances shook her head , but remained silent . 
Frances raised one hand to conceal the countenance that was overspread with crimson , as she extended the other towards Dunwoodie , and said earnestly -- `` Now you are unjust to me -- before you were unjust to yourself . '' 
`` I do promise , '' said Frances , withdrawing the hand that Dunwoodie delicately relinquished without even pressing it to his lips . 
said Frances , recollecting the parting words of their guest for the first time . 
`` It is in vain , '' said Henry drawing him aside ; `` Frances clings to hope with the fondness of a sister -- retire , my love , and leave me with my friend . '' 
But Frances read an expression in the eye of Dunwoodie that chained her to the spot . 
`` Nay , '' continued Frances , catching her breath as she witnessed the intense interest of her lover , `` we knew him not -- he came to us in the night a stranger , and remained with us during the severe storm ; but he seemed to take an interest in Henry , and promised him his friendship . '' 
said Frances ; `` Can he move the stubborn purpose of Washington ? '' 
-- But , '' rushing to his mistress , and pressing her hands convulsively , `` repeat to me -- you say you have his promise ? '' 
Not so with Frances . 
`` Why , dearest aunt , '' said Frances playfully , in reply to one of her frequent reprimands , `` would you have me repress the pleasure that I feel at Henry 's deliverance , when you yourself have so often declared it to be impossible , that such men as ruled in our country could sacrifice an innocent man . '' 
Frances recollected the declarations of Isabella , and turned an eye filled with tears of gratitude on her excellent aunt as she replied -- `` True ; but there are feelings that will not yield to reason . 
-- But Frances answered not . 
The base of the hill was not half a mile from the house , and the object which attracted the notice of Frances , was the figure of a man emerging from behind a rock of remarkable formation , and as suddenly disappearing . 
This manœuvre was several times repeated , as if it were the intention of the fugitive , -LRB- for such by his air he seemed to be , -RRB- to reconnoitre the proceedings of the soldiery , and assure himself of the position of things on the plain . 
Notwithstanding the distance , Frances instantly imbibed the opinion that it was Birch . 
Frances , therefore , sat ruminating on this second appearance in silence , and endeavouring to trace in her thoughts , what possible connexion this extraordinary man could have with the fortunes of her own family . 
`` I am not a wife yet , '' said Frances , colouring to the eyes ; `` and we have no reason to wish for another wedding in our family . '' 
`` Frances ! '' 
exclaimed her brother , starting from his seat , and pacing the floor in violent agitation , `` touch not that chord again , I entreat you . 
`` Then let the uncertainty cease , '' cried Frances , springing to the door ; `` for here comes Peyton with the joyful intelligence of your release . '' 
In his air there was neither the appearance of success nor defeat , but there was a marked display of vexation . 
He took the hand that Frances in the fulness of her heart extended towards him , but instantly relinquishing it , threw himself into a chair , in evident fatigue . 
`` You have failed , '' said Wharton , with a bound of his heart , but an appearance of composure . 
cried Frances , turning pale . 
`` But , Peyton , '' cried Frances , in returning terror , `` if they should not see each other , it will be too late . 
Her lover turned his eyes slowly on her anxious countenance , and dwelling a moment on her features , said , still musing -- `` You say that he promised to assist Henry . '' 
Frances , in a hurried and earnest voice , complied with his request . 
She related particularly the manner of his arrival at the Locusts , the reception that he received , and the events that passed , as minutely as her memory would supply her with the means . 
Frances mentioned , with the warmth of her youthful admiration , the benevolent character of his deportment to herself , and gave a minute relation of his adieus to the whole family . 
All eyes were now turned on Dunwoodie , who , looking at his watch , spoke a few words with Henry , in an under tone , and hastened from the apartment , followed by Frances . 
`` There is but one man in the American army who could detect you , Captain Wharton , '' said the pedlar , surveying his work with satisfaction , `` and he is just now out of our way . '' 
`` And who is he ? '' 
The instant that Harvey put his horse to his speed , Captain Wharton was at his heels , urging the miserable animal that he rode to the utmost . 
`` He 's off , '' muttered Mason , eyeing Harvey with savage fury , `` he 's off , and we are disgraced . 
Miss Peyton and Frances were breathless and unobserved listeners to all that passed between them , from the window of the chamber immediately above their heads . 
But very different were the reflections of Frances . 
Frances and her aunt held a long and animated discussion by themselves , when the good spinster reluctantly yielded to the representation of her niece , and folding her in her arms , she kissed her cold cheek , and fervently blessing the maid , allowed her to depart on her errand of fraternal love . 
Thenight had set in dark and chilling , as Frances Wharton , with a beating heart but light steps , moved through the little garden that laid behind the farm-house which had been her brother 's prison , and took her way to the foot of the mountain , where she had seen the figure of him that she supposed to be the pedlar . 
Frances felt but little apprehension from the orderly and quiet troops , who were taking their evening 's repast on the side of the highway opposite to the field through which she was flying . 
Frances listened anxiously to his retreating footsteps , and as they died upon her ear , she ventured from her place of secrecy , and advanced a short distance into the field ; where , startled at the gloom , and appalled with the dreariness of the prospect , the maid paused to reflect on what she had undertaken . 
Frances threw back the profusion of her rich curls with both hands on her temples , in order to possess her senses in their utmost keenness ; but the towering hill was entirely lost to the eye . 
Had an adder stung her , Frances could not have sprung with greater celerity , than she recoiled from the object against which she was leaning , and which she for the first time , noticed . 
Frances hesitated no longer , but rather flew than ran across the meadow , and was soon at the base of the rock , where she hoped to find something like a path to the summit of the mountain . 
Frances felt her spirits invigorated by even these faint vestiges of the labour of man , and walked up the gentle acclivity with renewed hopes of success . 
Tufts of wool , hanging to the briars , sufficiently denoted the origin of these tracks , and Frances rightly conjectured , that , whoever descended the mountain , would avail himself of their existence , to lighten the labour . 
The light was shining in the window of her aunt , whom Frances easily fancied was standing watching the mountain , racked with all the anxiety she might be supposed to feel for her niece . 
All of the neighbouring hills were distinctly visible by the aid of the moon , and Frances was able , where she stood , to trace the route of the highway from the plains into the mountains . 
The chilling air sighed through the leafless branches of the gnarled and crooked oaks , as with a step so light as hardly to rustle the dry leaves over which she trod , Frances moved forward to that part of the hill where she expected to find this secluded habitation ; but nothing could she discern that in the least resembled a dwelling of any sort . 
Recovering from her surprise , Frances looked on the ledge beneath her , and at once perceived that she stood directly over the object of her search . 
After pausing sometime to view this singularly constructed hiding-place , for such Frances knew it must be , she applied her eye to a crevice to explore the scene within . 
But it was the occupant of the hut in whom Frances was chiefly interested . 
-- This was a man , sitting on the stool , with his head leaning on his hand , in such a manner as to conceal his features , and deeply occupied in examining some open papers before him . 
On the table lay a pair of curiously and richly mounted horseman 's pistols , and the handle of a sheathed rapier of exquisite workmanship , protruded from between the legs of the gentleman , one of whose hands carelessly rested on its guard . 
The tall stature of this unexpected tenant of the hut , and his form , much more athletic than that of either Harvey or her brother , told Frances , without the aid of his dress , that it was neither of those whom she sought . 
or to wait under the expectation of yet meeting with Henry , as the stranger moved his hand from before his eyes , and raised his face apparently in deep musing , when Frances instantly recognized the benevolent and strongly marked , but composed features of Harper . 
All that Dunwoodie had said of his power and disposition -- all that he had himself promised her brother , and all the confidence that had been created by his dignified and paternal manner , rushed across the mind of Frances , who threw open the door of the hut , and falling at his feet , clasped his knees with her arms , as she cried -- `` Save him -- save him -- save my brother -- remember your promise , and save him ! '' 
Harper had risen as the door opened , and there was a slight movement of one hand towards his pistols , but it was cool , and instantly checked , as Frances entered . 
He raised the hood of the cardinal which had fallen over her features , and exclaimed , with some uneasiness -- `` Miss Wharton ! 
This Frances instantly did , with a hurried voice , ingenuously admitting him to a knowledge of her own views in wisiting that lone spot at that hour , and by herself . 
It was at all times difficult to probe the thoughts of one who held his passions in such disciplined subjection as Harper , but still there was a lighting of his thoughtful eye , and a slight unbending of his muscles , as the maid proceeded in her narrative . 
Frances hesitated , and unconsciously played with the handle of one of the pistols , and the paleness that her fears had spread over her fine features , began to give place to a rich tint , as after a short pause she added -- `` We can depend much on the friendship of Major Dunwoodie , but his sense of honour is so pure , that -- that -- notwithstanding his -- his -- feelings -- he will conceive it to be his duty to apprehend my brother again . 
Frances gave the desired assurance , and he continued -- `` The pedlar and your brother will soon be here , but I must not be seen by the royal officer , or the life of Birch might be the forfeiture . '' 
cried Frances , ardently ; `` Henry could never be so base as to betray the man who saved him . '' 
Harper pressed his finger on his lip , to remind Frances of her promised silence , and taking his pistols and hat , so that no vestige of his visit remained , retired deliberately to a far corner of the hut , where , lifting several articles of dress , he entered a recess in the rock , and letting them fall again , was hid from view . 
Frances noticed , by the strong fire-light , as he entered , that it was a natural cavity , and contained nothing but a few more articles for domestic use . 
The surprise of Henry and the pedlar , on entering and finding Frances in possession of the hut , may be easily imagined . 
`` As you see me , Mr. Birch , '' said Frances , raising herself from her brother 's arms , and turning an expressive glance towards the secret cavern , that the quick eye of the pedlar instantly understood . 
Frances entered at once into a brief detail of what had occurred at the house since their departure , and the motives which induced her to seek them . 
cried Frances , with fervour ; `` your secret is safe with me . '' 
Frances sunk her head upon her bosom for a moment in shame , then elevating her face glowing with fire , added with enthusiasm -- `` Never , never -- Harvey , as God may hear my prayers . '' 
The pedlar seemed satisfied ; for he drew back , and watching his opportunity , unseen by Henry , slipped behind the skreen , and entered the cavern . 
Frances , and her brother , who thought his companion had passed through the door , continued conversing on the latter 's situation for several minutes , when the maid repeatedly urged the necessity of expedition on his part , in order to precede Dunwoodie , from whose sense of duty they knew they had no escape . 
The Captain took out his pocket book and wrote a few lines with his pencil , then folding the paper , he handed it to his sister -- `` Frances , '' he said , `` you have this night proved yourself to be an incomparable woman . 
leave me -- '' said Frances ; `` I can descend as I came up . 
`` Go -- go -- dear Henry , '' said Frances , embracing him ; `` go -- remember our father -- remember Sarah -- '' She waited not for his answer , but gently forced him through the door , and closed it with her own hands . 
He took the arm of Frances in silence , and led her from the hut . 
Frances felt as she walked by the side of his majestic person , that she was supported by a man of no common stamp . 
The firmness of his step and the composure of his manner , seemed to indicate a mind that was settled and resolved . 
The distance it had taken Frances an hour to conquer , was passed by Harper and his companion in ten minutes , and they entered the open space , already mentioned . 
Harper then turned , and taking the hand of Frances , spoke as follows : `` You have this night saved your brother , Miss Wharton . 
As he spoke , with a solemnity that touched Frances to the heart , he laid his hand impressively upon her head . 
The maid turned her face towards him , and the hood again falling back , exposed her lovely features to the fulness of the moon-beams . 
A tear was glistening on either cheek , and her mild blue eyes were gazing upon him in reverence . 
Harper bent and pressed a paternal kiss upon her forehead , and continued -- `` Any of these sheep-paths will take you to the plain ; but here we must part -- I have much to do and far to ride -- forget me in all but your prayers . '' 
Frances sprang forward with a lightened heart , and taking the first path that led downwards , in a few minutes reached the plain in safety . 
While busied in stealing privately through the meadows towards the house , the noise of horse approaching , startled her , and she felt how much more was to be apprehended from man , in some situations , than from solitude . 
-- Hiding her form in the angle of a fence near the road , she remained quiet for a moment , and watched their passage . 
A small party of dragoons , whose dress was different from the Virginians , passed at a brisk trot , and were followed by a gentleman , enveloped in a large cloak , who she at once knew to be Harper . 
Wondering who this unknown but powerful friend of her brother could be , the maid glided across the fields , and using due precautions in approaching the dwelling , regained her residence undiscovered and in safety . 
Onjoining Miss Peyton , Frances learnt that Dunwoodie was not yet returned ; although , with a view to relieve Henry from the importunities of the supposed fanatic , he had desired a very respectable divine of their own church , to ride up from the river and offer his services . 
To the eager inquiries of Miss Peyton , relative to her success in her romantic excursion , Frances could say no more , than that she was bound to be silent , and to recommend the same precaution to the good maiden also . 
There was a smile that played around the beautiful mouth of Frances , while she uttered this injunction , chasing away the momentary gleam of distrust that clouded her features , which satisfied her aunt that all was as it should be . 
The heart of Frances bounded with violence , as she listened to his approaching footsteps . 
It wanted yet an hour to the termination of the shortest period that the pedlar had fixed as the time necessary , in which to effect his escape . 
The countenance of Peyton was flushed , and there was an air of vexation and disappointment that pervaded his whole manner -- `` 'T was imprudent , Frances ; nay , it was unkind , '' he cried , throwing himself into a chair , `` to fly at the very moment that I had assured him of his safety . 
Frances ! 
Frances ! 
had you known this man , you would never have distrusted his assurance ; nor would you have again reduced me to this distressing alternative . '' 
asked Frances , pitying his emotions deeply , but eagerly seizing upon every circumstance to prolong the interview . 
I repeat , Frances it was rash -- it was unkind -- it was a sad , sad mistake . '' 
The maid bent towards him , and timidly took one of his hands , while with the other she gently removed the raven curls from his burning brow , as she said -- `` But why go at all , dear Peyton ? 
`` Frances ! 
exclaimed the youth , springing on his feet , and pacing the floor with a cheek that burnt with fire through its brown covering , and an eye that sparkled with conscious integrity ; `` it is not my country , but my honor , that requires the sacrifice . 
Yes -- yes -- I should like even now , '' he continued , laughing bitterly , `` to hear the villain , who would dare to surmise that such a treachery existed ! '' 
`` Peyton -- dear Peyton , '' said Frances , recoiling in terror from his angry eye , `` you curdle my blood -- would you kill my brother ? '' 
exclaimed Dunwoodie with a softened voice , as he turned to her more mildly ; `` you know I would ; but I am distracted with the cruel surmise to which this step of Henry 's subjects me . 
`` If that alone impels you to act so harshly towards my brother , '' returned Frances , with a slight tremor in her voice , `` let it never happen for him to learn . '' 
`` And this is consoling me , Frances ! '' 
I believe you , Frances , when you say that you pity me , and it must be my task to continue worthy of such feelings -- But I waste the precious moments ; we must go through the hills to-night , that we may be refreshed in time for the duty of to-morrow . 
Mason is already waiting for my orders to mount ; and Frances I leave you , with a heavy heart -- pity me , but feel no concern for your brother -- he must again become a prisoner , but every hair of his head is sacred . '' 
Dunwoodie , I conjure you , '' cried Frances , gasping for breath , as she noticed that the hand of the clock still wanted many minutes to the desired hour ; `` before you go on your errand of fastidious duty , read this note that Henry has left for you , and which , doubtless , he thought he was writing to the friend of his youth . '' 
`` Frances , I excuse your feelings , but the time will come , when you will do me justice . '' 
exclaimed the youth , glancing his eyes over its contents . 
`` He does , he does , '' cried Frances , eagerly ; `` he wishes you every happiness ; believe what he tells you -- every word is true . '' 
`` You may , Peyton , '' said Frances , looking up with innocent confidence towards her lover . 
Frances received it in astonishment and read the following : `` Life is too precious to be trusted to uncertainties . 
Let the clergyman that you will bring with you , unite you this night to Frances , and become at once , brother , son , and husband . '' 
The paper fell from the hands of Frances , and she endeavoured to raise her eyes to the face of Dunwoodie , but they sunk abashed before his eager gaze . 
said Frances , with a musing air that lighted a thousand hopes in the bosom of her lover . 
`` Why do I tarry , dear Frances , '' cried Dunwoodie , who was studying her varying countenance with rapture ; `` a few minutes might give me a husband 's claim to protect you . '' 
The brain of Frances whirled . 
`` Speak , my Frances , '' murmured Dunwoodie ; `` may I summon my good kinswoman -- determine , for time presses . '' 
Frances endeavoured to reply , but could only whisper something that was inaudible , but which her lover , with the privilege of immemorial custom , construed into assent . 
He turned and flew to the door , when the maid recovered her voice -- `` Stop , Peyton ; I can not enter into such a solemn engagement with a fraud upon my conscience . 
`` Then , meet me here in ten minutes , '' said Frances , greatly relieved by unburthening her mind , and filled with the hope of securing Henry 's safety , `` and I will return and take those vows which will bind me to you forever . '' 
But Frances , with modest firmness , declared that her resolution was taken -- she had long possessed the consent of her friends , and their nuptials for months had only waited her pleasure . 
Frances silently , and without the affectation of reserve , placed in his hand the wedding ring of her own mother , and after some little time spent in arranging Mr. Wharton and herself , Miss Peyton suffered the ceremony to proceed . 
The clock stood directly before the wandering eyes of Frances , and she turned many an anxious glance at the dial -- but soon the solemn language of the priest caught her attention , and her mind became intent upon the vows she was uttering . 
This was the time that Harper had deemed so important , and Frances felt as if a mighty load was at once removed from her heart . 
`` Now , Peyton , '' said Frances , `` it is indeed a brother that you seek ; I am sure I need not caution you in his behalf , should you unfortunately find him . '' 
Would that I could win him to our cause -- it is the cause of his country , and I could fight with more pleasure , Frances , with your brother by my side . '' 
-- But the sooner I go , Frances , the sooner I will return . '' 
`` Have you news affecting Henry , '' cried Frances , springing to his side . 
`` And with prudence too , dear Peyton , '' said Frances , with a face as pale as death ; `` remember , Dunwoodie , you leave behind you new claims upon your caution and care . '' 
go at once , '' said Frances , in a hurried voice , with a face whose bright tints would have shamed a ruddy morn -- `` neglect not the orders of Washington . 
Frances sobbed a moment on his bosom , and he tore himself from her presence . 
One would think that the situation of his friend would lower his spirits : surely , Frances could not have given him the letter . '' 
It was a happy winter for Dunwoodie , and smiles once more began to play around the lovely mouth of Frances . 
You do n't remember him , I believe ; he died the same year with his master , while we were children . 
Katy yearly sings his requiem , and upon my word , I believe he deserved it . 
I have heard something of his helping my English uncle , as we call General Wharton , in some difficulty that occurred in the old war . 
