`` Why , Adam , is it you , man , that axes me who young Greyslaer , of Hawksnest , is ? 
You 've seen me teaching the boy afore now , when he came up to Johnstown in his hollowdays , and , thof he be grown a bit , you ought to know my old scholard . '' 
A stout Whig , by the name of Sammons , stepped boldly forward to make reply ; but , before he could ascend the stage to place himself upon a level with his mounted adversaries , Sir John had thrown himself from his horse , and occupied the place from which Greyslaer and the Boston emissary had descended a few moments before . 
cried he , with a smile of scorn , pointing to Greyslaer , who stood with folded arms and compressed lips , as if with difficulty restraining the ire that boiled within him . 
shouted Greyslaer , springing forward toward the stage . 
Actively evading the blow , Greyslaer succeeded in getting one foot on the scaffold , but the next instant the sturdy baronet had fastened a grip upon his throat , and flung him backward into the arms of one of his myrmidons , who quickly placed himself astride the prostrate stripling . 
`` She must keep quiet now , or te tirk will pin her , '' said the brawny Highlander , who held him thus in durance , smiling grimly the while at the ineffectual efforts of Greyslaer to free himself , in spite of the drawn dagger that flashed before his eyes . 
`` Walter Bradshawe , '' said Greyslaer , without making an effort to rise or gain any advantage to protect himself from the consequences of what he was about to say , `` you , though so much my senior , were for months my mate at school . 
Finally , after regretting the necessity of placing young Greyslaer in the custody of the sheriff until he could be tried by his country in fair proceedings at law , he made a signal to Sir John , who had already placed the prisoner on horse-back in the midst of his retainers , and bowing politely to the company , the complaisant colonel moved off in the rear of his retiring party . 
Every one agreed that young Greyslaer must be at once delivered from the hands of the Johnsons , who , notwithstanding their promises , would doubtless seize the first opportunity of transporting the youth to Canada , where , if his fate were a no more cruel one than perpetual imprisonment , he would be at least utterly lost to the cause . 
Yorpy , the half-breed , has just brought the news from Caughnawaugha , and Sir John wishes to move young Greyslaer to the hall for safer keeping . '' 
Elated with their success , but still conscious that these lawless proceedings might recoil severely upon themselves , the band of Whigs unanimously determined to seize the sheriff , who had been the willing instrument of the Johnsons in depriving Greyslaer of his liberty , and hold him as an hostage for their own safety . 
Lansingh , Greyslaer , call off our friends , or we shall have the bluff Highlanders upon us to spoil our night 's work before we regain the woods . '' 
`` Be the issue what it may , '' exclaimed Greyslaer , in tones of deep fervour , while his earnest eye kindled with enthusiasm , `` the game 's afoot , and whether it lead to freedom or the grave , we must henceforth follow the chase . '' 
`` It becomes the old cocks , who have drawn apart to prose under the tree yonder , to look sermons , as well as preach them ; but for us , man , for mettlesome chaps like us , why , And the rattling youngster , to the great delight of old Balt and some of the juniors , and the equal annoyance of Greyslaer and other more thoughtful members of the party , ran through a verse or two of a popular hunting song , long since forgotten . 
`` Well , Mr. de Roos , '' said Col. Fonda , coming forward from the group , in whose councils Greyslaer seemed to be taking an active part , from the impatient glances he from time to time cast over his shoulder at the singer , from whose side he had in the mean time withdrawn ; `` well , sir , we have determined to take decided measures for ascertaining the real state of the county , and putting our friends upon their guard , and your father 's house is spoken of as the place of our next meeting on Thursday night . '' 
Greyslaer , upon overhearing these remarks , advanced , and whispered to his friend , `` If you be not quizzing , according to your wont , Dirk , I congratulate you upon the seasonable return to gravity which your speech evinces . 
But , gentlemen , '' he continued , raising his voice as he turned to his other compatriots , `` I shall consider your confidence withdrawn from me , as one unworthy to share it , if the hint suggested by my friend De Roos -- I doubt not in all kindness -- be allowed to have a moment 's weight with you . 
`` Fire not , Balt , '' cried Greyslaer and De Roos , both leaping at the same moment before the levelled gun ; `` 't is the noble Oneida Teondetha . '' 
said Greyslaer , addressing the Oneida in his own language . 
exclaimed a dozen voices , when Greyslaer had interpreted the information to his friends . 
And the woodsman , crossing his legs , leaned moodily upon his rifle , with an air of dogged determination to which there was no reply . 
`` If Balt chooses , '' said Greyslaer , `` I would rather have him with me , as I shall find difficulty in getting my company together without assistance in time for the meeting . '' 
`` For God 's sake , then , go with Greyslaer , you self-willed old bear . 
The young partisan needed not the hint to spur his zeal , but , warmly seconded by his followers , he drew off at once , and took his way through the woods with his party , trolling as he went a voyageur 's song of the Mohawk boatmen , in which his favourite slang phrase seemed to make the burden of the chorus : The low-voiced chant of the retiring party soon died away in the distance , and their departure was the signal for breaking up the assemblage , and the other patriots soon dispersed , the majority taking their route rowards Caughnawaugha , and others moving off in different directions , two and three together , until Balt and Greyslaer were soon left the only tenants of the spot . 
`` I used to have shanties like this all about among these hills wherever my traps were set , though none so near the settlements as this , '' continued the hunter , when they had gained a rocky dell , where the frame of a wretched wigwam , partially covered with birch bark , was discernible to Greyslaer after he got within a few feet of it . 
With these words , Balt proceeded to strike a light ; and kindling first some dry leaves , he scraped the moss from a moist stump near , and covering up the flame with the damp material , the thick fumes of his `` smudge '' soon caused the insects to disappear . 
Greyslaer , in the mean time , had stretched himself upon some hemlock boughs , spread out beneath the shed of bark , which was barely ample enough to keep off the dews of night ; and having refreshed himself upon the fare which the hunter drew from his caché , he observed to Balt , as the latter threw a fresh handful of leaves upon the smouldering flame , `` That a hunter 's fire was a sort of company for him , when passing a night in the solitudes of the wilderness . '' 
Greyslaer , instantly suspecting that the bluff woodsman , like many a man equally bold , was the victim of superstitious terrors , asked , with some curiosity , what it was that had thus inspired him with a fear of sleeping in darkness , when Balt , after a preliminary hem or two , thus told his story . 
`` I mean not in any way to harm old Mr. de Roos ; but this mettlesome young Greyslaer must be removed , or he will only qualify his neck for the halter by stirring up more treason . 
I shall attempt to decoy him from the house , or , failing in that , will surprise it with so strong a party as to make resistance hopeless ; and we shall merely ruffle the nerves of his friends a little in seizing the springald , '' replied Brant , coolly . 
Her brother , young Derrick , then but a child , was with Greyslaer , his father 's ward , at school at Albany . 
And he has turned out such a fiery fellow since he came to man 's estate , that no one now would dare to hint the matter to him . '' 
eaf153v1.n2 -LSB- 2 -RSB- The written treaties of the Five Nations , preserved among the government archives , always open with , `` We , the Sachems and principal womenof the Five Nations , '' & c. TheFarmer 's Homestead , from which the estate of Greyslaer took its name , lay upon the banks of the Mohawk , immediately at the mouth of one of those wooded gorges through which the tributaries of the river descend from the mountains of Montgomery to unite with the parent stream . 
`` And yet not necessarily ours to-night ; the young man whom you seek is evidently not at home ; for see , now , the tall girl has laid aside her work ; they are preparing for family prayers , yet Greyslaer is still absent . '' 
Of the different parties of Whigs , who , according to previous concert , were to rendezvous at the Hawksnest this evening , that of Greyslaer was the only one which , for reasons that will be hereafter mentioned moved to the proposed conference . 
It was well that the band was better armed and better ordered than were most yeomanry corps at the commencement of our civil struggle , and that they were commanded by one who , on this night , gave as signal proofs of his quickness of resource and ability as a partisan soldier , as he had formerly shown evidence of high moral courage upon the occasions we have already noticed . 
The twenty-four hours which had elapsed since his deliverance from the myrmidons of Sir John Johnson , Greyslaer knew afforded sufficient time for that vigilant loyalist to obtain information of the proceedings of the patriot party , and to adopt measures to prevent the proposed meeting . 
This , in the excited state of popular feeling , could scarcely be effected by an open exercise of his authority as a magistrate . 
A stroke of address in seizing the rebel ringleaders , or the cutting off the different parties in detail , by way-laying them on their approach to the rendezvous , seemed the only movement that could serve his purpose . 
Fearful , therefore , of an ambuscade , Greyslaer had exercised the greatest caution in approaching the scene of danger . 
Marching warily along the banks of the river , until he came within half a mile of his destination , he had turned aside upon reaching the mouth of the tributary before mentioned ; and , making the bed of the smaller stream his highway , had struck inland towards the hill , so as , by a serpentine course , to approach the house from the rear . 
These precautions , however , would only have served to throw him into the midst of Brant 's party , which , intent upon the operation which had brought their chief to the spot , lay concealed upon the banks of the brook where it first descended to the lowlands , if the military foresight of the young partisan had not added another safeguard to his march by throwing out a picket upon either side of the stream . 
Some three minutes were now passed by Greyslaer 's party in breathless attention for another signal . 
These were so skilfully employed by the woodsman in gliding towards his foe , that they measured the mortal existence of the unhappy Indian . 
Greyslaer nodded approval , and instantly gave the necessary order ; while his men silently deployed from the bed of the stream , and ascended the bank , preparatory to making a swift movement across the meadows to the house . 
Two fields , separated by a high rail-fence , laid `` worm-fashion , '' intervened between them and the homestead , and it was the sound of their feet , in running across the first field , which caught the quick ear of Thayendanagea , and in the same moment alarmed his ambushed followers . 
Au-neh-yesh , by the order of one of the chiefs , had bounded off , on the instant , to communicate with the Sachem , and had nearly reached the house , when , casting his eyes behind him , he beheld Greyslaer 's party in the act of surmounting the division-fence we have mentioned . 
Without waiting to select his man , he instantly fired upon them , and the shot produced at once the effect intended by the keen-witted savage . 
The situation of Greyslaer 's party seemed now precarious in the extreme . 
for we can not long maintain ourselves where we lie , if the Indians are in any strength , '' said Greyslaer . 
The suggestion was too much in accordance with Greyslaer 's feelings not to be eagerly caught at by him . 
Indeed , so overpowering was his anxiety for the beloved inmates of the mansion , that nothing but considerations of duty toward the party who had trusted themselves to his guidance , had hitherto prevented him from dashing forward to his destination at all hazards . 
But if he had still hesitated as to the course to adopt in the present exigency , all doubt as to his movements was at once dispelled in the moment that Balt finished speaking . 
Greyslaer was close upon him , and , as he strained every nerve in rushing forward , he came with his drawn rapier so impetuously upon the Indian , that the point was driven through his back deep into the panel of the door , which burst open from the shock . 
Leaving his friends for the moment to make good their entrance as best they could , by opposing their hunting-knives and clubbed rifles to the tomahawks and maces of the Indians , who instantly mingled with them in wild melée around the porch , Greyslaer rushed forward to the sitting-room of the family . 
He shrunk aghast at the sight of horror which told him that he had come too late . 
Alida , the beautiful Alida , had disappeared ; but her fair-haired sister lay weltering in her blood , while a gash across her forehead , with the tangled locks drawn backward from her brow and the print of gory fingers fresh upon the golden tissue , called Greyslaer 's eye to a savage , who shook his scalping-knife at him with a hideous grin of disappointed malice as he sprang through the open window . 
The din of the conflict still rose fresh behind him , and Greyslaer turned to the succour of his friends whom it might avail . 
there 's the tool for my purpose , '' he added , seizing the ducking gun from the chimney , and throwing down his half-loaded rifle ; while Greyslaer had , in the mean time , secured the window through which the ferocious Au-neh-yesh had a moment before made his entrance and escape . 
Greyslaer now rushed to support the man who was holding the door against odds so stoutly ; while Balt ascended the staircase , freshly priming the ducking gun , and adding a handful of buckshot to the already heavily charged piece as he went . 
He gained a window in the same moment that Greyslaer , sallying out from the house sword in hand , cut down the sturdy warrior for whom Balt had prepared his charge . 
But the heavy piece of Balt did good service in the moment , or Greyslaer 's career would have been cut short for ever . 
It was not unnatural , therefore , that the young Greyslaer , when he surveyed the desolation that had come over the home of Alida , and thought of her as torn from that home , a captive , dependant upon the mercies of the half-civilized Mohawk -- it was not unnatural that , while every humane and generous impulse of his heart should be called into action , the more subtile emotions of latent tenderness should also quicken afresh in his bosom . 
But Greyslaer , though the first burst of feeling will ever have its way in one so young in years and new to sorrow , was not a man to waste the moments that were precious , in a lover 's idle rhapsodies ; nor , indeed , had he given way to even this transient weakness , until he had done all that could be at present accomplished for the distressed household . 
`` As for Greyslaer , he had to go south to the Reinhollow Settlement to get his friends together ; and they would have eaten us out of house and home , if we had to keep his hungry hunters over the morrow . 
He sprang forward , buried his tomahawk in her brain , and , twisting his fingers in her long tresses , had already drawn the scalping knife from his girdle , when Greyslaer 's sudden appearance compelled him to seek safety in flight . 
After a night made tedious by broken slumbers and harassing dreams , confusedly alternating each other , it was with no slight feeling of relief that Greyslaer hailed the approach of dawn . 
The summer landscape wore a Sabbath-like stillness , as he gazed upon it from his open window , while inhaling the fresh breeze of morning . 
`` And what , '' thought Greyslaer , `` what are the private griefs of one solitary being like myself , to the sorrows of the thousands whose fate is wound up in this impending struggle ; what weighs the present doom of all of us , when balanced in the scales of Omniscient Benevolence , against the welfare of the millions yet unborn , whose destiny hangs upon the success of our endeavour . 
But the thoughts of the youthful Greyslaer became less coherent , as they assumed a softer character , nor need we follow the reflections of the ardent young patriot , as they became merged in the vague musing of the less sanguine lover . 
As the day wore on , and the hour of the expected return of the younger De Roos to his father 's house drew nigh , Greyslaer shrunk from witnessing the harrowing impression which the desolate household must make upon his friend . 
`` She was borne off by the villain Brant , unharmed as we think and trust , '' said Greyslaer , advancing . 
The dismayed youth had heard in the first instance of the total destruction of his house ; indeed , there had been tales of burnings as well as massacres ; and when he rode so furiously homeward , it was not until he beheld the quiet smoke ascending from the hall of his infancy that he hoped even to recover the bodies of his kindred for Christian burial . 
To find his father living , and Alida , his favourite sister , his pride and his delight , still not numbered with the dead , wrought such a change in his mind , that every object around him wore a new aspect . 
The world , which a few moments before seemed so drear and gloomy , that the very idea of drawing out his desolate existence for an hour was accompanied by that suffocating sense of pain intolerable , that most men , perhaps , have sometimes known -- the world , the young and half-tried world around him , seemed now almost as fresh and fair as ever . 
With buoyant step he hurried out to meet his approaching friends , and , as the wagons of the gathering yeomanry drove into the courtyard , it would have seemed , from the congratulations that passed among the females , whom sympathy or curiosity had brought to the house of mourning , that every cause of grief were for the moment removed . 
Greyslaer , in the mean time , having taken counsel with the friends of Alida 's family , it was agreed that he and Derrick should leave the care of the ceremonial to a near kinsman of the latter , while , selecting a chosen party of followers , they should set out together an hour after midnight to follow up the trail of Brant . 
But I mean her as an hostage to restrain far more dangerous spirits than the mad-cap De Roos , or the dreaming enthusiast Greyslaer . 
It was about the hour of midnight that the younger De Roos , taking Balt to guide him upon the Indian track , quietly withdrew to the hillside with his followers ; where , after some ten minutes ' impatient waiting for Greyslaer , they took up their line of march through the forest without him . 
Greyslaer , in the mean time , rising from the pallet whereon he had snatched a brief repose , descended the staircase , and already had his hand on the outer door , when a deep moaning in the room adjacent to the passage arrested his attention . 
A feeble light streaming through an aperture showed that the door was ajar , and , with cautious and subdued steps , he hesitated not to enter . 
Her cheek supported upon her bony fingers , with the closed lids of her sunken eyes , showed that her vigil had been badly kept ; and Greyslaer , pained at the thought that the remains of the gentle Tyntie should be left to such a watcher , turned from the forlorn old crone to the coffin in which the body had been laid . 
The agonized parent , who had thus crept , in the dead of the night , to hold this awful communion with his child , seemed wholly unconscious of the presence of Greyslaer , who would fain have slunk away in silence as one who , by unwitting intrusion , profaned some hallowed mystery ; but his power of volition seemed taken away , and he still continued to stand , in spite of himself , as it were , with eyes riveted upon the heart rending spectacle . 
A sudden and subtile agony seemed on the instant to travel through his limbs and rack his aged frame ; and then , while unresistingly permitting Greyslaer to take the body from his arms , he sank unconscious upon the floor . 
Calling the old woman to his aid , Greyslaer , with the tender care of a mother , lifting the fragile form of her child in which life still feebly hovers , again consigned the body to its formal receptacle ; and , while the crone busied herself in readjusting the grave-clothes of the maiden , he turned to raise her wretched father from the ground . 
It was with a sad heart that Greyslaer , after climbing the hills to strike the trail of his friends , succeeded at last in overtaking them after an hour 's rapid walk through the forest ; nor , for a long time , could he find the heart to break to Derrick de Roos the mournful event which he had just witnessed . 
Yes , yes , Greyslaer , it was better that he should be removed at the first outbreak of the storm , than that those gray hairs should be left to be still farther bleached by its peltings , and bowed down to the grave at last , without his ever beholding the bright days to come that you and I may yet witness . '' 
said Balt , breaking a long silence , and speaking for the first time since the party had got fairly on the move once more , `` I mistrust that your Injun friend there , Teondetha , or whatever be the chap 's name , that you and Capting Greyslaer are so thick with , I mistrust that he did n't help you much , arter all , in finding out old Josie . 
exclaimed Greyslaer ; `` surely Teondetha did not desert you . 
The last words suggested associations so bitter that the young man was for the moment overcome by his emotions , and then , regaining his composure , he resumed , still in a mournful tone : `` Certain it is , Greyslaer , that Teondetha separated from us in the forest , but whether from accident or treachery I am unable to determine . '' 
whispered Greyslaer , in a low but stern voice , for he did not wish to mortify the faithful woodsman before his comrades ; `` to me , Balt , and to our cause -- to all whom you call your friends , I believe you to be a good man and true ; and , as such , I would peril my life with you or for you ; but , Indian or white , by the God that made me , if you ever practise such a piece of treachery upon breathing man , you shall die the death at my hands . 
But I tell ye , Capting Greyslaer , as I suppose I must call ye , it is n't fair and comely , it is n't treating me in a likely manner , to use sich hard words to me , considerin its only two days gone that I let ye put down my name on your muster-paper there , as making myself a raal sodger under you ; I might better have let the cause go to the devil , or have gone and taken service in Bradshawe 's battalion with wild Wolfert Valtmeyer , rayther than to be spoken to so like a dog -- I might . 
`` If those are your sentiments , my good fellow , '' said Greyslaer , stopping short in his walk , as the two pursued a path together a little apart from the rest of the band , `` if you really wish to side with the Tories and shed the blood of your countrymen , I will strike your name off this paper in an instant , and you have full liberty to go where you please . '' 
And Greyslaer drew the muster-roll of his company from his bosom , as if about to give his last and most valuable recruit a fair discharge . 
`` A hopeful subject I have here for a disciplined soldier , '' said Greyslaer , mentally . 
Amused , provoked , and , at the same time , touched by the petulant freedom and stanch fidelity of his follower , he silently abandoned the altercation , and pocketing the muster-roll with an emphatic `` umph ! '' 
that said everything to Balt , once more pursued his way with the doughty hunter . 
`` How do you know , Balt , '' said he , after they had walked on for some time in silence , moving through the forest as nearly as possible in a parallel line with the main body of De Roos 's band , from which two corresponding flankers had been thrown out upon the opposite side , `` how do you know that Valtmeyer has taken up arms with the Tories under Bradshawe ? '' 
said Greyslaer , not incuriously . 
`` Sarting they will , '' replied Balt , shaking his head . 
In the moment that Balt spoke , a faint signal from the extreme right , which was repeated by De Roos from the centre , reached the ears of Greyslaer and the flankers at once ; closing in , the whole party united upon the banks of the rivulet , at a point where it first commenced its descent from the upland . 
Taking his orders now from De Roos , for Greyslaer was only acting as a volunteer upon the expedition , Balt ascended a tall hemlock to reconnoitre the point to which they were approaching , and where it was presumed that Brant lay with his followers . 
asked Greyslaer , anxiously ; `` it would be madness to assault their palisades without artillery , and it would be folly to wait until cannon can be transported through woods like these we have traversed to-night . '' 
I have it , I have it , capting ; I have it , squire ; '' and , as if some rare device had struck him on the instant , Balt straightway descended the tree . 
said Greyslaer , who , standing upon a rock round which the runnel gurgled , looked down the defile through which it travelled to the river , and caught a glimpse of the moonlit landscape below . 
The party was divided agreeably to his suggestions , and the three bands immediately afterward separated , and sped with silent haste to their different destinations . 
Greyslaer , having but a short distance to move with his handful of followers , soon gained the position indicated by Balt ; and throwing himself upon the ground , with his feet hanging over the rocky ledge , he cast a thoughtful eye over the sleeping landscape below . 
The moon was in her last quarter , but the atmosphere was so clear that her waning beams lighted up the scene with a splendour that is rarely witnessed in other climes . 
The stockade itself lay a deformed and shapeless mass of logs in the midst of this desolate area ; and the eyes of Greyslaer , as he watched the twinkling lights which ever and anon revealed the floating canoe upon the river , reverted continually to this sullen den , in which he thought Alida was immured . 
As the last thought passed through the mind of Greyslaer , and even before language could have given it shape and utterance , it seemed as if the chilling image of death had but presented itself as the precursor of the reality . 
Theplans of the hunter Balt , when he was permitted to arrange the movements of his party for the night , were well laid in every respect save one ; the omission , on the part of De Roos and his forest counsellor , to keep up a communication with Greyslaer , either by messengers or signals , to be available in case they met with any obstacle to the consummation of their design . 
`` The attempt , '' they argued , `` must either be fully successful , when we shall rejoin our comrades without molestation , or , if we are interrupted by a sally from the fort or other untoward occurrence , the report of our firearms will soon show Greyslaer how things are going . '' 
The two parties , led severally by Balt and De Roos , gaining the bottom of the hill upon which they had left the ill-starred Greyslaer , separated near the base of the promontory before described , and betook themselves to their appointed stations . 
De Roos posted himself , with his men , in a swamp that friuged a little bay a few hundred yards below the Indian stockade , from which it was divided by the river , which was here about a rifle-shot in breadth . 
The promontory extended out into the stream upon his right , and the canoe , which was the object of attack , was just turning this headland as he reached his position , and might be said to be thus already cut off from the fort had he dared to fire upon her . 
But Balt , who gained the shore , amid tangled vines and thickets of elder , upon the lower side of the promontory , awaited there his opportunity to seize the fishermen in a more peaceable manner . 
Placing his followers in a copse near the mouth of the brook already mentioned , he proceeded cautiously to a clump of chestnuts near , and selecting one fit for his purpose , he cut off a stick about two feet in length from a green sapling , and , after rolling it between his palms for a few moments , succeeded in drawing out the woody part from its bark casing , forming thus from the latter a hollow tube , which might answer the purpose of a speaking-trumpet . 
Placing one end of this to his mouth , and bending his body so as to bring the other within an inch of the ground , and partly to smother the sound he intended to produce from the instrument , he drew from it a deep discordant noise , not unlike the distant roaring of a bull . 
`` It will never do , '' said De Roos , still keeping his party in motion ; `` Greyslaer will get sufficient warning to retire in time , seeing the movements around the fort ; and as for our joining him , it is too late . 
Rushing forward , the hunter gained the top of the hilly ridge whereon he had left Greyslaer , and was moving with hasty but cautious steps toward the shelf of rocks where that luckless officer had taken post with his party . 
cried Balt , as he met Greyslaer 's men in full flight from the spot . 
Thewound of Greyslaer had been given precisely in the manner described by the panic-struck fugitive , though both he and De Roos were mistaken in thinking that their party was surrounded . 
A large body of Indians had indeed crossed the river , under the shelter of the cape or headland , during the few moments that the moon was obscured ; but this was after De Roos was in full retreat : and the `` skulking savage '' who had so alarmed his followers , as well as the sharpshooter who had subsequently picked off Greyslaer , and struck a panic into his party in turn , was no other than the single desperado who had so gallantly achieved his escape from the canoe . 
This formidable warrior -- for , as Balt surmised , it was no other than `` old Josey , '' or Thayendanagea himself -- was aided by fortune , not less than by his own address , in escaping the perils of the night . 
Foiling by his prowess the ambushed foes that attempted to seize him , he had , in the first instance , after breaking from their hands , struck directly across the neck of the promontory as the shortest way to the station . 
He had nearly gained the little bay on this side , where he would take the water to swim to the opposite shore , when , discovering the position of De Roos 's band by hearing some of the outlyers whispering together , he made a detour to turn their flank . 
The gleam of his rifle soon after betrayed his vicinity to them , as was indicated by a movement of alarm among them ; and , perceiving that he was observed , he widened his circuit by striking inland toward the hill . 
This route brought him immediately beneath the projecting ledge whereon Greyslaer was reclining . 
Deeming himself now surrounded by foes , the chieftain thought that it only remained for him to fight his way through them as best he might ; and when the moon , after being a few moments obscured by a cloud , shone out , bringing the form of Greyslaer above him in clear relief against the sky , Brant discharged his piece and raised the war-whoop . 
The forest rung for a while with the impatient yells of an Indian chase , and then , before an hour had passed away , the lonely whoop of some solitary savage , hailing his comrades after a reluctant and disappointed return , was all that met the ear These last sounds , had Greyslaer had sufficient consciousness to comprehend them , would have told him of the safety of his friends , however precarious might be his own . 
The wounded officer , upon reviving from his swoon , found himself stretched upon a pile of skins in an Indian wigwam , with a noble-looking Mohawk , a man of majestic figure and commanding aspect , standing near , with eyes bent keenly upon his own . 
Greyslaer made a movement as if to lift one of his hands , and was about to speak , but the Medicine-man -- for such the Indian seemed by the talisman which he wore around his neck , as well as other emblems and equipments of the aboriginal leech , or conjuror 's trade , that marked his appearance -- motioned the youth to remain silent and quiet . 
This he did , with the assistance of a withered old squaw , who stood by , holding the various preparations in her hands , while ever and anon she bowed reverently to the muttered charm of the operator . 
When this part of his medical treatment was carefully completed , the magician administered a draught with the same solemn and superstitious ceremonial ; and his patient soon after slept . 
The slumberg of Greyslaer must have been long and refreshing , for he found himself so much revived upon awaking as to feel a disposition to rise . 
But upon the first indication of such an intention , his ears were saluted by a shrill and discordant cry from the old squaw , who sat crouched among the ashes , watching a brazen kettle , into which from time to time she cast certain roots and herbs , muttering some gibberish to herself the while . 
Her call was answered from without by a gruff `` umph , '' as of some voice chiding her shrewish cry ; and straightway the mat which formed the only door of the lodge was raised , and the benignant features of the Medicine-man were seen at the entrance . 
He advanced to the couch of Greyslaer , and placing his hand upon the forehead of his patient , while he gazed upon him thoughtfully for some moments , seemed to be at length thoroughly satisfied with the results of his treatment thus far , for straightway he began to engage him in conversation , speaking English at the same time with an ease and fluency that astonished the soldier-student . 
said Greyslaer , with spirit . 
The eyes of the Medicine-man shot fire as Greyslaer , feverish perhaps from his wound , spoke thus intemperately of Brant , whose doubtful Indian origin did not commend him to the romantic student , and whose clerkly employment as secretary of Guy Johnson had not raised him in the eyes of the aspiring young soldier ; while recent events made Max regard him as a crafty , cruel , semi-civilized barbarian , who brought the name of `` Mohawk '' into abhorrence and contempt . 
Greyslaer had his eyes fixed upon the rafters above him while thus warmly and disdainfully inveighing against the captor of Alida , and he did not , therefore , observe the agitated movement with which the Medicine-man carried his hand to the knife which he wore in his girdle , though , from the excitement under which he spoke , it is doubtful if even such observation would have restrained his heated expressions . 
`` Your tribesmen , noble Mohawk , if indeed you be an Indian , '' answered Greyslaer , touched by the proud yet feeling tone with which the last words were uttered , `` your red brethren had indeed better keep aloof from us , alike in war or in peace , for they seem to acquire only the worst attributes of civilized life by attempting to mingle with us as one people : and their share in this struggle must -- '' `` Ay , you speak well , young man , '' interrupted the Indian , now wholly thrown off his dignified reserve of manner by what appeared to be a theme of great excitement with him ; `` if your vaunted civilization be not all a fraud , your perverted learning but a shallow substitute for the wisdom of the heart , your so-called social virtues but a loose covering for guile , like the frail thatch of leaves that hides the traps of an Indian hunter ; if your religion be not a bitter satire upon the lives of all of ye ; if , in a word , all your conflicting teachings and practices be indeed reconcilable to Truthand pleasing to The Spirit , then hath he created Truth of as many colours as he hath man ; and his red children should still rest content with the simple system which alone their hearts are fitted to understand . '' 
Greyslaer was precisely at that age when most men of an imaginative cast of mind mistake musing for philosophizing , sentiment for religion ; and with that ready confidence in the result of one 's own reflections and mental experience which is the darling prerogative of youth and immaturity of thought , he did not hesitate to assume the attitude of a teacher in reply to the last remark of the Indian . 
The Mohawk listened with an air of deep respect to the earnest language of the youth , but his own feelings and prejudices were too deeply excited to permit the discussion long to preserve the abstract character which Greyslaer attempted to give it . 
`` I spoke not against the truths of Christianity , '' said he ; `` for they may have their sanctuary as well in the desert and the forest as in the city ; I spoke not , I say , of the pure light of Christianity , which your mobbled faith no more resembles than do the stained and distorted rays that struggle through a dungeon 's window resemble the beams of the noontide sun . 
-LSB- 3 -RSB- Greyslaer , who listened with curious attention to this strange harangue , as coming from the lips of an Indian , was completely bewildered by the fluency and energy with which the magician delivered his tirade , and he scrutinized his features and complexion , as if expecting to discover the lineaments of some disguised renegado white , who , with talents fitted for a better sphere , had , induced by caprice or compelled by crime , banished himself from society , and assumed the character of one of the aborigines . 
The Medicine-man , smiling blandly , as if he read what was passing in the mind of his patient , approached to his side , and telling him that he was now about to consign him to the care of others , asked Greyslaer , as the only return expected for any service he might have rendered him , to curb his tongue hereafter in speaking of Joseph Brant ! 
Before the patriot officer could reply , the magician had turned upon his heel and gained the door ; but , as if struck with an after thought , he instantly returned , and , ere Greyslaer was aware of his intention , he had bared his arm to the shoulder , produced a stained flint from his pouch , and branded an uncouth device , that made the skin smart with pain as the blood oozed through . 
And , before Greyslaer could find language to express his astonishment , either at the act or the words which accompanied it , he was alone with the old woman , who busied herself in reverentially picking up and putting away the mumming tools of his profession which the pseudo magician had flung upon the ground as he disappeared through the door . 
The lodge in which Greyslaer lay helpless upon the bed of pain , stood , among several others in the wilderness , remote from the station where the warriors of the Mohawks were collected ; and , from the pleasant murmur of female voices , and cheering call of children at play , which met his ear when returning strength enabled the wounded officer to be more observant of things around him , he soon became aware that his present domicil must be none other than the `` Squaw Camp '' of Thayendanagea ; a lonely fastness where , in time of war , the women and children of his tribe were sequestered for safety . 
Eager to catch at anything to vary the monotony of slow convalescence , and prompted by that thirst for sunshine and the breeze which gives such a yearning to the sick man 's spirit , Greyslaer would fain have expressed his desire to be lifted out in front of the lodge . 
But , ignorant of the Mohawk language , he found some difficulty in making the old squaw , who , as his only nurse , affected to regulate all his movements , understand his wishes . 
Her consent to the step , however , was obtained without any great difficulty , and she transported the invalid beyond the porch by dragging his pallet of skins , with the patient upon it , to the outside of the wigwam . 
A rivulet , bounded upon the opposite side by a wall of vines and briers , which in their turn were overhung by tall aspens , intermingled with the swamp-ash and dusky tamarack , rippled against the mossy bank whereon he lay , and hid its wanderings in mazy thickets beyond . 
The face of the larger and more commanding maiden was averted from his gaze when her person first caught the eye of Greyslaer ; but her snowy hand , resting for a moment upon the nut-brown neck of the Indian girl , sufficiently revealed to him the neighbourhood of one of his own race and colour ; perhaps a countrywoman ; perhaps , indeed -- he could scarcely repress a cry of joy at the thought of the bare possibility -- perhaps Alida ! 
So Greyslaer thought , and his surmises were almost ripened to a certainty when he looked again at the hound . 
said Greyslaer , somewhat louder , and the hound bounded upon him , devouring him with caresses . 
`` Down , sir , down , '' he cried , extricating himself with difficulty from this overpowering outbreak of affection , and turning to look for the fair mistress of the animal . 
The wounded Greyslaer , whose situation prevented his moving , was filled with grief and vexation when , unheeding every gesture by which he attempted to arrest her attention , the Indian girl also flitted from the spot . 
He sank back , exhausted with agitation , upon his couch of skins ; and believing almost that his fevered senses had deceived him , turned the next moment to look for the dog , to see if he too had been spirited away . 
The hound had couched down a few yards off , where he sat watching his new-found acquaintance . 
He wagged his tail , and approaching as he caught an encouraging look from Greyslaer , proved , by rubbing his cold nose against the hand of his friend , that he at least was a substantial thing of earth . 
The dog looked as if he had every disposition in the world to comprehend what was said to him , but , like most dogs who fail in such endeavour , gave no reply . 
As the youth spoke he warded off a blow which the truculent dame aimed at the hound with a stick which she seized from the ground , and which Greyslaer , snatching from her hand , shook at her in a threatening manner , to show his displeasure , before casting it into the stream near him . 
The worthy Brom , meanwhile , either understanding the last words which had been addressed to him , or unwilling to create scandal by causing a domestic broil in Greyslaer 's establishment , wisely abstracted himself as fast as his legs could carry him . 
It is a curious fact , that a well-bred dog , who has been happy in his associations with the polite of our species , will never fly at a woman or child ; and Brom , though he preferred running to fighting in the present instance , curled his tail so erect upon his retreat , that no suspicion could attach to his valour . 
Turning round when he had gained a discreet distance from the virago , he paused for a few moments , and looked back upon her with a countenance more in sorrow than in anger before taking up the lazy trot with which he finally disappeared behind a remote wigwam of the group . 
The dispirited Greyslaer began now to doubt whether or not the fair captive , for such both the dress and complexion proclaimed her to be , were really Miss De Roos . 
And yet , while it would be equally strange for any other of his countrywomen to practise a similar avoidance , considering the situation of both parties , and how much a good understanding between them might tend to facilitate their mutual escape , the circumstances under which Alida had been carried off , and the presence of her favourite dog in company with the mysterious maiden , seemed sufficiently to prove that the white lady could be no other than Miss De Roos . 
Another suspicion which passed through the mind of Greyslaer was hastily dismissed as unworthy both of Alida and himself , considering the perils which he had encountered to restore her to her friends . 
It was , that the coldness with which she had ever frowned upon his boyish suit actuated her conduct in their present situation . 
`` She is unwilling , '' said he , bitterly , `` to receive succour at my hands . 
We have said that Greyslaer repelled these unworthy suspicions , and so he did , indignant that a thought demeaning to his mistress should have found a place in his mind , much less shaped itself into words . 
He repelled it , but in vain , for the same ungenerous thought recurred again and again , with withering effect upon his already depressed spirits . 
Her haughty and aspiring mind had hitherto detected no qualities in Greyslaer 's character which could touch it to gentle issues . 
It was only as the refined but visionary student , the romantic cherisher of vain and speculative dreams , such as float around a young enthusiast who knows the world through books alone , that Greyslaer had hitherto appeared to the lady of his love . 
The play of his polished fancy , the allurements of his cultivated intellect , had interested her in studying the character of a stripling who , some years her junior , and continually thrown in her society as the most intimate friend of her brother , did , not unnaturally , attract her kindly regard . 
But while , with less mental acquirement upon her own part , Alida perhaps over-estimated that of which Greyslaer could boast , yet her esteem for his talents and accomplishments was full as nearly allied to pity as to admiration . 
She thought the character of Greyslaer was wholly unsuited to the country and the circumstances amid which his lot was cast . 
He possessed the requisites , among other scenes and other times , to grace a fortune or uphold an honourable name ; but he lacked the stirring qualities to win either by his own exertions . 
He was , in a word , one whose impracticable , feeble , or misapplied energies doomed him to mediocrity in life ; a mediocrity which , by the comfortable respectability that she believed would attend it , gained nothing in the eyes of a woman whom poverty or peril would never have prevented from sharing the destiny of the man she loved . 
yet the acute-minded Alida de Roos seemed never to dream that the wild devotion which the student bore her was what absorbed all the salient energies of his soul ; that she was the bond that kept its pinions from mounting ; that idolatry for her alone had robbed ambition 's shrine of Greyslaer 's worship ; that love -- love only -- all-absorbing , all-devouring love , had delved the grave in which his youth 's best promise was swallowed up ! 
An hour or more had passed away , and Greyslaer still sat beneath the weeping elm , now moodily gazing upon the stream that twinkled through the bushes near him , and now casting a fierce and impatient glance upon some lounging Indian , an aged or broken-down warrior of the band , who had been left by the chief for the nominal protection of the camp . 
Greyslaer had not seen the dog for some days ; and surmising that the friendly animal had been kept out of his sight by design , he was at once struck with the peculiarity of his conduct now , as the hound , instead of bounding eagerly forward to fawn upon him , exhibited the coolest indifference to the call of his friend . 
The sagacious Brom went wandering hither and thither , smelling idly along the ground , and , though gradually coming nearer , making his approaches after such a careless fashion , that Greyslaer was in doubt whether the brute knew him or not . 
He whistled , and again called him by name ; but the dog , raising his head , looked vacantly around him , and then resumed his course , without adding either to the rapidity or directness of his steps . 
At last , getting within a few yards of his friend , the worthy Brom appeared to be for the first time aware of his neighbourhood , though not until he had first passed by , and , as it seemed , thrown a chance look over his shoulder , which induced him to turn and come gravely forward , as not wishing to cut an old acquaintance by design . 
Amused with `` the airs '' of the dog -- for in happier days Greyslaer had frequently seen him put on the same whimsical dignity for less cause than might have given Brom offence at his last visit to the wigwam -- the young man took the head of the hound in his lap and patted it kindly . 
Brom only acknowledged the caress by rubbing his head against the knees of his friend , as if his collar were too tight for him ; and , placing his hand under the clasp to loosen it , Greyslaer felt beneath it a scroll of birchen bark , whose smooth and flexible texture allows it to be written upon and folded like paper . 
Agitated with joy at the discovery , the surprise of the youth did not , however , prevent him from instantly concealing the missive in his dress ; while the wise Brom , apparently contented with the interview , went smelling and loitering on his way around the camp , as if his tour was one of idleness altogether . 
The note , as read by Greyslaer the moment he had attained the interior of his lodge , from which his quondam nurse and present amiable house-keeper was happily absent , contained only these words , written with charcoal : `` An hour after midnight , be near the fallen sycamore which crosses the brook within a few paces of your wigwam . 
Anxiety for the fate of Teondetha 's friend , wandering in darkness amid the spongy and treacherous morass , laced everywhere among its blind thickets with deep and sloughy pools , urged her to spring forward and guide him in safety to the Haunted Rock ; and in a few moments Greyslaer had penetrated the copse of tamaracks that girdled it , and gained the firm and broad platform whereon his mistress stood . 
`` Greyslaer , '' said Alida , solemnly , for her woman 's heart was touched by the agitation which overwhelmed her lover , and the bright stars shining down upon the spot revealed the paleness of his cheek . 
But you are yet young , Greyslaer ; love can not exist without hope , and this fancy will soon pass away , or be transferred to another more worthy of your esteem ; to one who can reciprocate your affection . '' 
The heart of Greyslaer can know no second love . '' 
Greyslaer himself awaited what was to follow ; and her words , as she resumed , were spoken in a tone low but clear , firm but inexpressibly mournful . 
`` There is , '' she said , `` there is but one man living , Greyslaer -- one as vile , sordid , ruthless , and malignant as you are gentle , generous , and noble -- one only other who shares the secret you have this night wrung from me . '' 
The weakness , however , quickly passed away , as , at a cry of alarm from Greyslaer , the Indian maiden bounded from the covert , and applied some cool glossy leaves , wet with the dews of night , to the brow of the sufferer . 
The blow was better received by Greyslaer than could have been expected or hoped for by her that dealt it . 
He was indeed astounded and petrified by the first announcement ; but all consideration for himself seemed the next moment merged in concern for his unhappy mistress . 
`` Lady , '' he said , dropping on one knee before her , and with an air of deep respect pressing his lips to the hand which she did not attempt to withdraw , `` you spoke truly , lady , when you said my fate was linked with yours ; but you erred in believing that aught could sever the chain , though it might lead me to destruction . 
`` No , no , Greyslaer , '' she cried , shaking back the long tresses which had fallen in disorder over her neck and shoulders . 
`` No , Greyslaer , thou art not yet dear enough to me to share the fruition of the hoarded hope I have lived upon for years . 
And , pressing both hands to her temples , the unfortunate young lady looked so bewildered for a moment , that Greyslaer could hardly resist the conviction that her intellects were disordered . 
Yet , if such were indeed the case , how , he thought , could her mind be so well balanced in regard to all other subjects ? 
If it be true , however , `` that great wit to madness nearly is allied , '' while gleams of insanity have been discovered in minds which have exercised a wide and enduring influence over mankind , and , mastering their disease till the last , have left in death the wisest of their survivers doubtful as to the suspicion that has attached to them ; then might a far more experienced observer of human nature than young Greyslaer be at fault . 
Nor , indeed , were it just to conclude , only from what he had witnessed , that the senses of Alida were deranged . 
While these reflections , or others not unlike them , passed hurriedly through the mind of Greyslaer , the lovely subject of them seemed too busied with her own conflicting thoughts to observe the earnest and anxious gaze that was riveted upon her countenance . 
These formal words , which struck chillingly upon the ear of Greyslaer , were pronounced in that measured tone of superior self-possession with which a master-spirit may sometimes address an inferior , blended with the air of kind authority which considerate age will put on when conversing with inexperienced youth . 
But , though she knew it not yet , the ascendancy which the generous and haughty-souled Alida had hitherto exercised over the mind of her lover was gone for ever ; and Greyslaer made her feel that it was so in his reply . 
`` And how , '' said the lady , with an irresolute , uneasy air , that perhaps betrayed a mingled feeling of jealous pride , of growing self-diffidence , and newly-awakened respect for the lofty and decided tone the youth assumed so unexpectedly , `` how , Greyslaer , am I to avail myself of any service which you might render me ? '' 
`` Well spoken , young missus , like a gal of spunk as you are , '' exclaimed a harsh voice near by , while a brawny ruffian , leaping from the thicket , and striking the rock with a short Indian war-club as he gained his footing upon it , placed himself between Greyslaer and Alida . 
younker , '' he cried ; `` you would add to the account that is chalked up agin you already , would you ? 
`` Stand off , ruffian , '' muttered Greyslaer , choking with passion , as he saw the savage-looking fellow circling the waist of Alida with one arm , while , weaponless and feeble from his recent wound , he felt himself incapable of protecting her . 
said Greyslaer , making a wary movement toward the man , in the desperate hope of clutching from his hand the short mace with which he dallied . 
`` If you be the fiend himself , here 's at you , '' shouted Greyslaer , bounding furiously forward . 
The contest was too unequal to leave a hope of success for the invalid youth , had he succeeded in closing with his antagonist ; but the latter , to whom the now senseless Alida seemed no encumbrance , as he actively leaped aside , laughed to scorn the vain efforts of his assailant , who still pressed impetuously upon him . 
His words , however , betrayed his growing irritation , as , backing step by step toward the edge of the rock , so as still to keep the full swing of his arm while the youth attempted to close in upon him , `` Gemeiner hund , madcap , idiot , dolt , take that to quiet you , '' he cried , at last dealing a blow that brought Greyslaer instantly to the ground . 
Stricken down , and stunned for the moment , Greyslaer was slowly regaining his feet , when the first object he beheld was the Mohawk maiden , gazing , with clasped hands and bewildered eyes , toward the thickets into which the outlaw had disappeared . 
`` Some business took me south last summer about the time the Hawksnest affair and subsequent disappearance of young Greyslaer put the country in hot water . 
But of Greyslaer she could think hopefully , as of one who might still return to share her friendship and receive her gratitude . 
Yes , that was the word , if her thoughts had been syllabled to utterance when she hoped for Greyslaer 's return . 
But there were moments when she hoped not thus ; moments of dark conviction that he had ceased to be upon this earth ; that death had overtaken him as well as others for whom she was better schooled to grieve . 
Alida mourned the dead Greyslaer as if he had been her affianced lover ; but hoped for the reappearance of the living one as of a man who could never be more to her than a cherished friend -- a brother -- a youngerbrother ! 
And where , then , is Greyslaer ? 
The autumn was not spent idly by his friends in exploring the wilderness for traces of his fate ; and even in midwinter Balt has crossed the Garoga lakes on snow-shoes , followed up the cascades of Konnedieyu , and penetrated deep into the Sacondaga country upon the same errand . 
But first , however , we must go back some months , and take up the thread of our narrative at the squaw camp of Thayendanagea , if we would follow out the fortunes of Greyslaer from the moment when the desperado Valtmeyer so fearfully crossed his path . 
Greyslaer , though ignorant of the precise geography of this Alpine region , had still some idea of the vast wilderness which extended toward the Canada border ; and when he saw his guide , after reaching a rapid and turbulent stream , turn her face to the northward , and strike up along its banks , as if about to follow up the water to the mountain lake in which it probably headed , he paused , and was compelled , for the first time , to reflect upon what use he should make of his newly-recovered liberty , and which way it were best for him now to direct his steps . 
His first object must be , of course , to reach the nearest body of his friends . 
But , since the events in which he had been an actor , and those which might have transpired during the weeks that he was ill and a prisoner , he knew not where those friends might be found . 
He was ignorant what changes might have taken place in the valley of the Mohawk , or which party might have the ascendency now that the spirit of civil discord was fairly let loose in that once tranquil region . 
Should he fall into the hands of some straggling band of Tories , or should he even venture to claim the hospitality of those who , but a month since , had stood neutral while the conflict was impending , he might find himself seized upon by some new convert to the royal party , who would gladly afford the most lively proofs of his newborn zeal for the crown by securing so active a partisan of the patriot cause . 
The city of Albany was , therefore , his only safe destination , if he would preserve that liberty of action , by the preservation of which alone he could hope to succour Alida . 
He determined , therefore , not to venture descending into the lower country till he could strike it at least as far east as Schenectady . 
But how , if he concluded to make this long circuit through the woods , could he find his way amid the wild forests he must traverse ? 
Was this lonely Indian girl , who was little more than a child , to be his only guide ? 
and , if so , how were they to procure subsistence in a journey through the wilderness , where the path was so toilsome that many days must elapse before he could accomplish the distance which , upon an ordinary road , can be traversed in one ? 
Greyslaer abruptly broke off these unsatisfactory reflections by asking his companion whither she was now guiding him . 
The reply of `` The Dew '' told him that much might be gained by admitting her into his counsels . 
She was leading him to the Garoga lakes , where her tribesmen had once had a fishing camp , in which they might at least find a shelter from the elements , and where Greyslaer could readily obtain subsistence for himself until `` The Dew '' could make her way to the settlements and gain some tidings of his friends , or , at least , procure him some more eligible guide than herself from the lower castle of the Mohawks ; a small band of that tribe , under their leader Hendrick , being friendly to the patriot cause . 
Greyslaer hoped , however , that if he could once secure a retreat , where , for a few days , he should be safe from pursuit , he might find means to communicate with his faithful and cherished follower , old Balt , if , indeed , the stout old forester had not perished in the fray in which he himself was taken prisoner . 
But Greyslaer 's was no common tale of misplaced hopes and unrequited attachment . 
Hecould not fling from him the image of Alida as an idle vision of his dreaming boyhood . 
Her sorrows had become his own ; and the love which might have perished from hopelessness seemed born anew from sympathy ; ay , though he were doomed hereafter to have neither part nor lot in aught else belonging to her , save this share in her sorrows only , yet such community of grief was so dear to him , that the world had now no prize for which Greyslaer would have bartered his gloomy heritage of wo . 
what a joyless and barren destiny did he thus embrace ! 
Flinging his fresh and blossoming youth , like a worthless weed , away ; grafting upon his ripening manhood a shoot of bitterness , that must dwarf its energies and wither its fruit of promise . 
The shrill burst of the Indian warwhoop startled Greyslaer from the stern revery with which we have ventured to blind our own reflections while detailing its general character . 
Quick as light , Greyslaer seized the weapon and plucked it from the bark in which it quivered . 
But , instantaneous as was the movement , it did not avail him ; for , as he was in the act of wheeling round to confront the peril in the direction whence the hatchet came , he was grappled in the arms of a sinewy Indian . 
Down they both went together , the Indian uppermost ; and so completely did he seem to have Greyslaer at advantage , that he leisurely addressed him while partly raising himself to draw his knife . 
And , as the miscreant spoke , he made a motion across the scull of his prostrate prisoner , as if he felt tempted to go through the ceremony of scalping while life , yet vigorous in his veins , should give a zest to the cruelty . 
But Greyslaer was not the man to be sportively handled in a death encounter . 
His dark eye followed the gleaming weapon , as the barbarian flourished it above his head , with a glance as keen as that of the hawk-eyed Indian . 
He had fallen with one arm under him , and , happily , it was that which held the tomahawk , which thus escaped the notice of his foe . 
It was for the moment pinioned to the ground , not less by the weight of his own body than by that of the savage ; and the force with which he had been hurled to the earth so paralyzed the strength of Greyslaer , that he did not at first attempt to extricate his hand . 
But now , throwing back his head , as if he shrunk from the knife that was offered at it , he suddenly arched his back so as to lift the savage and himself together ; and , slipping his arm from under him as the other bore him down again by throwing the full weight of his person lengthwise upon him , he dealt a side blow with the hatchet which nearly crushed the scull of the Indian . 
The fellow relaxed his grip of Greyslaer 's throat in an instant , and rolled over , and lay as if stricken to death upon the spot , while , breathless and disordered , young Max regained his feet . 
Uponexamining the features of the Indian , which were of a singularly brutal cast , Greyslaer felt convinced that he had beheld them before , but where or when it was impossible for him to say . 
Bending near to scrutinize them more closely , he observed that life still remained ; for the eyes , which were shut , had their lids , not smoothly drooping as when closed in death , but knit and screwed together as when suddenly closed in a paroxysm of rage or pain . 
He murmured something , which , from the low tones in which the Indians usually pitch their voices , Greyslaer could not overhear . 
was the brief reply to his communication . 
The man beckoned to two others , and the three , plunging into a copse near by , appeared the next moment , each with a birchen canoe upon his shoulders . 
The wounded man was assigned to the forward canoe , and Greyslaer , with his arms still pinioned behind him , placed in the centre . 
The garden-like plain was spread out below the eminence upon which stood the shanty which was his temporary prison-house ; and Greyslaer could from time to time discern some plumed band defiling from the hills and losing themselves among the far-reaching groves , to which the Indians repaired from every side . 
-LSB- 2 -RSB- It was two days after these unknown rites were consummated that Greyslaer found himself ascending a lofty mountain under the care of his captors , who still withheld all harsh treatment , while warily watching him as if they only held him in trust as the captive of some one more powerful than themselves . 
It could scarcely be the wounded Isaac , however ; for , since his first seizure , Greyslaer had been studiously kept out of the sight of that ferocious Indian , whose bloody-minded disposition frequently showed itself during the delirium of fever under which he was left at the hunter 's cabin . 
The heart of Greyslaer thrills within him at the sight ; and not the least painful part of the death that seems to hover near is the thought of closing his eyes for ever upon such a world of glorious beauty . 
Here Greyslaer again hears the voices of women and children from a camp of safety , and resigns himself to the monotony of captivity in a stronghold from which there seems no escape . 
And The Spreading Dew , who came in with the rest , has even communicated to Greyslaer that Sir John Johnston and his loyalist retainers , both Indian and white , have withdrawn from the Valley of the Mohawk and fled to Canada . 
Why is Greyslaer not there to share the triumph of his friends ? 
Greyslaer , though much given to that half romantic , half philosophic mood of wrapping one 's self up in one 's own dreams and speculations , which belongs to that inexperienced season of life when we value our own thoughts far more than the material objects around us , was still not deficient in keen and curious observation of character . 
And Greyslaer , who had looked with a curious eye upon the remarkable peculiarities of this volcanic region , bent near to hear how the strange fancy of an Iroquois would account for natural phenomena to whose existence he himself could bear testimony . 
Presently , however , The Dew , who had gone down to the shore of the lake to bring water , appeared , and saying aloud that the hunter who had just fired needed the assistance of the white man in bringing some game to camp , motioned Greyslaer the direction in which he should go , which , strangely enough , was in an opposite direction from that whence the sound came . 
Greyslaer , in fact , had only gained a lower and broader basin than that which held the waters of the lake ; and though it likewise was walled round by craggy pinnacles , yet here there was a heavy forest-growth ; and these barriers themselves , as well as the passage through them , were wholly screened from view by the intervening foliage . 
But now , darting like a bird from the green wood covert , The Dew suddenly presents herself in the path before him , and beckons Greyslaer onward . 
The woods upon its banks are here an open growth of ash and maple ; and Greyslaer 's confidence in the sagacity of his guide was for a moment shaken when he saw her persist in keeping her way along so exposed a path . 
He thought that they had already gained the base of the mountain , from the lofty and frowning cliffs of rock which now and then he could descry afar off , lifting themselves above the tree-tops around . 
He would fain have struck off to some thickets which , through these open glades , could be plainly seen crowning the lower and nearer ridges of rock that traversed the hillsides above them . 
But the girl directed his attention in advance , and , for the first time , he saw the sunshine playing upon some spruce and cedar tree-tops that were immediately upon a level with his line of vision . 
She pointed to the brook , still their emulous companion , and he understood at once that it must have some sudden fall where those trees were growing . 
And , truly enough , the sound of a waterfall soon greeted his ears . 
Here Greyslaer quickly constructed a raft from the floating timbers which he found in profusion in the eddies of the stream ; and the two voyagers drifted down with the current , till , reaching the rapids at the approach of night , they are compelled to betake themselves to an island which divides the waters of the Hudson just above its juncture with the Scroon , at Teohoken . 
In this they float down the rushing stream , which , with the Indian girl at the helm , and Greyslaer plying his active paddle at the prow , whirls their frail bark safely over its rocky channel . 
The rapid windings of the river and the overhanging woods , which at early day let down only here and there a burst of sunshine on its shadowy bosom , sweep them so quickly from alternate light to gloom , that the startled deer who drinks from the river 's brink has scarcely time to fix his gaze ere the shifting pageant has passed away . 
They came at last within sound of the falls of Tiosaronda , and , landing here on the western side of the river , near the base of Senongewoh , they circled the northern side of the hill , and struck into the forest in a direction towards Lake George , where Greyslaer hoped to find a military post occupied by his countrymen . 
But now they had not advanced far into the forest , climbing two or three hilly ridges in succession , before Greyslaer 's steps are arrested by a startling cry , which seems to come almost from beneath his very feet . 
He looks up , and sees The Dew with one foot advanced , her hands averted , as if motioning him back , while she herself gazes forward , as if trying to pierce a shadowy glen that yawned across her path . 
The yell is again repeated from below , and the maid , cowering toward the ground , makes signs to Greyslaer to imitate her movements . 
Crouching as she commands , he ventures , however , to approach with stealthy caution to the place where she stands . 
Greyslaer , from the intervening foliage , could by no means distinguish the object at which the Indians pointed , but the significant gestures of the whole party left no doubt upon his mind that the joyful discovery of an enemy 's trail had caused the wild yell which first startled him and his companion . 
The Indians had apparently been pursuing their way through the ravine in a direction nearly parallel to that which he was traversing . 
The next moment , and the whole band had disappeared from beneath his eye ; the Mohawks vanishing behind the gray trees so suddenly and silently , that , as their painted forms and tufted plumage disappear amid the dark foliage , it seems as if some wild vision of the forest has melted amid its glooms ; and he almost expects them to reappear the next moment by his side from beneath the rugged bark of the huge oaks around him ; such as unfolded to release the fabled Dryads of old . 
The Dew waited until sufficient time had elapsed for the Indians to gain several hundred yards , and then , motioning to Greyslaer to tread carefully in her footsteps , descended the steep bank a few paces and commenced moving rapidly along the hillside . 
Four distinct trails were thus made to branch out at intervals from that which Greyslaer and his guide were actually travelling ; and the maid , seeming content with these precautions , now kept the way steadily forward ; save that , ever and anon , she would pause for a moment in some more open glade , poise herself upon some fallen trunk , throw a keen but furtive glance around her , and then flit lightly as a bird from its perch into the leafy shadows beyond . 
A deep swamp received them next ; and no youth less light of foot than Greyslaer could have kept up with the forest damsel as she glided from one half-floating tussock to another , her feet scarce touching the black and slippery logs , which , plunged as they were in the slimy mould , afforded yet the firmest stepping-place around . 
She pointed through an almost straight vista between the interminable trunks ; and Greyslaer , seeing his way before him , stepped fleetly forward , his companion treading cautiously in his footsteps upon the yielding sand . 
They had nearly crossed these dangerously open glades , when Greyslaer suddenly felt a light hand upon his shoulder ; he turned and saw the girl pointing , with an agitated look , to an object that was advancing toward them nearly in the direct line they were travelling . 
But whether it were the same or another party of her tribesmen , it mattered not ; the life of Greyslaer now depended more than ever upon her faithful and sagacious guidance . 
The Indian paused and looked backward , as if awaiting the coming up of his party . 
The Dew seized the moment , and , followed by Greyslaer , sped backward on her path . 
She crossed and recrossed it repeatedly , Greyslaer now in his turn stepping lightly and carefully in her footprints , so as to cover , yet not wholly erase them , while their way yet lay through the sands of the pine barren . 
Greyslaer approached the verge of the precipice , and despaired of proceeding farther . 
The main stream , whose tributary it seemed he had been last traversing , had here cloven its way through a rocky ridge in a channel so narrow that any of the trees around him would span the black chasm . 
But he had no axe to fell one , nor would he have dared to disturb the echoes of the forest if one were at hand . 
At this moment the shrill whoop of the Mohawks rose fearfully behind him . 
He spoke a few words to his companion , seized a pendant vine that flourished near the spot , and flung himself out from the face of the cliff , as if determined to drop into the roaring current , and take his chance for escape in its angry bosom . 
He cast one glance back on the maid ere he let himself drop in the tide below . 
She had not sprung forward to prevent him , but stood with folded arms and a look of indignant sorrow upon her brow . 
Was it mingled scorn and pity that he should thus desert his preserver ? 
So thought Greyslaer , as , still holding his grasp on the vine , he permitted himself to swing back by her side . 
`` Surely you can swim , and do not shrink from trying that stream with me , '' he cried . 
The girl wrung her hands as if in despair , while Greyslaer folded his arms and leaned against a tree , as if moodily resigned to his fate . 
Greyslaer , who , unappalled for himself , had but a few moments before hung suspended over the gulf below , covers his face with his hands in the instant the daring feat is in the act of being accomplished ; and , almost ere he can look again , the maid has recrossed the chasm and dropped nimbly by his side . 
The Dew was faint from hunger , and the weary spirits of Greyslaer were anything but cheered by the desolate scene of that swampy-shored lake , with here and there a dead tree waving the long moss from its gray arms as it stood solitary amid the half-floating bog . 
Unarmed as he is , Greyslaer bounds forward , as if to aid those of his own blood , who , it would seem , are borne down in the battle . 
The gentle-souled Greyslaer looks often into the deep and languid eyes of the suffering and innocent-hearted girl who has dared and endured so much for him . 
He blames himself for having permitted her to encounter the perils they have undergone ; not the least of which , that of starvation in the wilderness , they are now beginning to realize . 
He has made her a couch of fern and leaves , where the cradling roots of an ancient birch supply her mossy pillow ; and now she shrinks not from his ministering care as he sits near , watching till her eyes be closed in slumber . 
cried the foremost of the forest choir , advancing from under the boughs into the moonlight , and levelling his rifle upon Greyslaer as he spoke . 
And the impetuous brother of Alida -- for it was no other than Derrick himself -- drew back from the embrace of Greyslaer , into which he had thrown himself , to look earnestly into the wan features of his long-lost friend . 
But Balt had heard the first joyful cry of recognition between the friends , and was already hugging Greyslaer in his arms with an unceremonious vigour , that sensibly reminded Greyslaer of De Roos 's unfortunate speech , assimilating him to a bear , which had once given such deep offence to the worthy woodsman . 
The salutations of the other hunters , though , of course , less familiar , were hardly less hearty , as Balt stood by and proudly encouraged them to come up and take the hand of his old pupil . 
`` Did n't I tell ye , boys , '' said he , `` that young Max would come to hand the right side up ? 
But Greyslaer had turned away , and was bending with anxious solicitude over a figure that had hitherto escaped the notice of his friends . 
She faints , she faints , '' said Greyslaer , in tones of almost agonizing solicitude , as he supported the sinking head of The Dew upon his bosom . 
De Roos tore the canteen from his side ; and , as Max applied the cordial to her lips , the maid opened her eyes . 
asked Greyslaer . 
`` Here 's a corn-cake , captain , '' said a hunter , handing a fragment of the coarse bread to Greyslaer . 
Greyslaer , in the mean time , now that his anxiety about `` The Dew '' was relieved , summarily detailed his principal adventures , speaking always of the disinterested and heroic Indian girl in terms that would have deepened even the colour of her red cheek could she have understood the language in which they were uttered . 
De Roos , in return , gave him information of both a public and private nature which claimed his deepest interest . 
`` But tell me , De Roos , '' cried Greyslaer , `` how came you in these woods with old Balt ? '' 
cried Greyslaer , echoing his words in astonishment . 
`` Safely and snugly , captain ; neither wolves nor Indians will trouble them , I reckon , '' replied the corporal , touching his hat . 
asked Greyslaer , with some anxiety . 
That time , I mean , when you had high words with the old woman , because you said you knew better when she declared that the child ought rightfully to belong to Isaac Brant , whose son he was , and when -- '' `` Silence , sir , '' commanded De Roos , who seemed both irritated and annoyed by the loquacity of his non-commissioned officer . 
Greyslaer , in the mean time , had listened to this dialogue with an interest much beyond that of ordinary curiosity . 
And more facts and reminiscences equally linked together , and having the bearing of strong circumstantial evidence upon this delicate matter , might have suggested themselves to Greyslaer 's mind , had he not suddenly been startled from his painful musings by a wild cry of joy from The Dew as Teondetha suddenly presented himself in the light of the fire before her . 
The maid recoiled abashed and agitated the instant she had uttered this natural outbreak of her feelings , while Teondetha , who , with noiseless step , had approached to light his calumet by the fire , started erect from his stooping posture , and gazed with eagle glance around . 
Greyslaer alone had his eye upon the Indian pair , and , as he now fully understood their language , he was not a little amused with the cool generalship with which the Oneida made his advances . 
`` My sister , '' said Teondetha , seating himself on a log near the opening of the shanty , the moment he discovered the vicinity of his lady-love ; `` how is it with her ? '' 
The girl , so far from shrinking at sight of the gory trophies at his belt , gazed now admiringly upon them as her half-savage lover held them up to her eyes . 
A heavy puff of smoke from the fire at that moment wrapped the lovers from Greyslaer 's sight , and he could not see whether the Indian pair sealed this important passage of their courtship with the impress that fairer wooers would perhaps have used ; but , as the smoke cleared away , he thought that he distinguished The Dew withdrawing her little hand from that of Teondetha , who had slightly changed his position . 
`` Carry on , carry on , '' cried De Roos , at this moment , inviting all parties to supper in his favourite phrase , which , like the `` push along , keep moving , '' of English farce , or the `` go ahead '' of modern American slang , served him alike upon all occasions , and was equally in requisition whether at feast or fray . 
Greyslaer , who had eaten nothing , as yet , save a biscuit which he got from the knapsack of a slain soldier , upon which he had been seated near the fire , was sufficiently sharp-set to fall to with a keen relish of the fare now placed before him . 
And running on thus while he acted as cook , butler , and waiter for Greyslaer , old Balt , ever on the alert to serve him , eyed his pupil at intervals with an affectionate interest , as if it cheered his very heart to see the half-famished wanderer relishing this rude entertainment . 
`` Ah , capting , '' he resumed , `` but Miss Alida will be glad to see you . 
asked Greyslaer . 
`` You did most rightly , Balt , '' said Greyslaer , not untouched by these proofs of the just sense of propriety which seemed to govern the simple woodsman . 
De Roos , however , when they joined his party a few yards off , seemed to have no idea of any one 's seeking their rest so soon . 
He had just relieved the sentinels who had been posted here and there in the woods around , and the rest of his half-disciplined followers were ready enough to unite with Balt 's hunters in the chorus , as the mad captain again broke out in the song with which he had first waked the echoes of the forest round about , and which he had originally learned from old Balt himself . 
Greyslaer , however , borrowing a blanket from one of the soldiers , was permitted to forego a part in this midnight saturnalia of the forest ; for his plea of excessive weariness was admitted when De Roos remembered that they must reach Fort George early on the morrow , if they would have a place in the column when his regiment took up their line of march . 
For , though joy and delight for Greyslaer 's escape first swallowed up all other feelings , yet painful reflections succeeded , and doubts and fears crept into her mind , to alloy this generous burst of heartfelt sensibility . 
How was it now with her when Greyslaer lived ? 
But why dwell now upon her past relations with Greyslaer ? 
The advances of some of these suiters were well known in the neighbourhood , and their supposed rejection , when they successively withdrew from the field , became very naturally the talk of the country people , who , when Greyslaer 's return from captivity was bruited abroad , unanimously agreed that Fate had intended that he should be the happy man . 
And where was the girl in the valley that would refuse him?Proud and uppish as she was , old De Roos , though a respectable man enough , and the old friend of Sir William , was no such great shakes , after all , that his daughter might turn up her nose upon the only son of Colonel Greyslaer that was . '' 
He was the last of his name ; and , though sternly republican in his political principles , democracy entered not into his ideas of the social relations , and he was believed to inherit from his stately old father sufficient pride of family not to wish the name of Greyslaer to expire with himself . 
A lawyer from the county town calling upon Miss De Roos , informed her that Captain Greyslaer , being about to join his regiment , which belonged to a brigade of volunteers that had recently been draughted into the service of Congress , he had no idea of taking possession of the Hawksnest , and that Miss De Roos would add to the obligations which Captain Greyslaer already felt himself under to her late lamented father , if she would continue to preside over an establishment which must otherwise be broken up , and perhaps fall to ruins ; for the aged housekeeper was now too infirm for the charge , and Captain Greyslaer was at a loss what disposition to make of his other servants in times so disturbed . 
The latter part of his agent 's statement was enforced by a note from Greyslaer , containing an eloquent appeal to her on the score of their mutual childish associations , and the impracticability of his making any humane disposition of his black servants ; for manumitting them -- a resource which had suggested itself -- would , in the existing state of the country , be , in fact , the cruellest thing he could do , there being now no employment for labourers of that class . 
She would remain beside the graves of her father and sister , and consider herself as mistress of the Hawksnest until Captain Greyslaer was prepared to enter into his possessions ; but it must be as a tenant upon the same terms that her father had held the property . 
A month or more had elapsed after the adjustment of this delicate matter , and Greyslaer , writing weekly to her from Albany and New-York , whither his professional duty had led him , managed always in his letters to preserve a tone of easy friendliness , such as had prevailed between them in the younger days of their intercourse . 
The frank cordiality which Greyslaer assumed was rather overdoing nature , as Alida thought when she observed his rapid utterance and restless motions ; and Greyslaer was conscious that Alida trembled with agitation when he smilingly proffered the ordinary salute which fashion so inconsistently permitted among the polite , considering the otherwise ceremonious manners of that formal day . 
They each seemed labouring under a continual exertion to maintain the tone in which Greyslaer had so happily commenced their correspondence , and which had hitherto been successfully kept up between them . 
What wonder , then , if Greyslaer 's visits to the Hawksnest were gradually intermitted . 
But the moment did not come ; and upon each succeeding visit Greyslaer seemed farther from the hope of such a revelation than ever . 
Whether it was that she did not consider Greyslaer her young friend the most proper party to interest himself about her affairs ; whether she paled at the peril to which Greyslaer her lover would be exposed by the steps he might adopt upon receiving the disclosure ; whether she shrunk , with true female delicacy , from the farther agitation of a subject so painful , or whether she had proudly determined to be herself the arbiter of her own destiny , it is impossible to say . 
And now Captain Greyslaer has become noted alike among his equals in rank and his superior officers for his rigid and exclusive attention to his military duties . 
He seldom goes beyond the limits of the post where he is stationed . 
His visits to the Hawksnest , which is only a few miles off , seem gradually to have ceased altogether ; and a book or newspaper from New-York , with some pencilled remarks upon the news it contains from the seat of war , is , when transmitted through his orderly , the only intercourse he holds with its inmates . 
Alida -- though other officers of the garrison sought by assiduous attention to supply the place of Greyslaer -- Alida , it must be confessed , began soon to miss his accustomed visits . 
The superior mental accomplishments of Greyslaer , the student would with her have given him but slight advantage over his military comrades ; but the character of Greyslaer the soldier , of Greyslaer the young partisan , whose wild adventures and perilous escapes among the Indians was the theme of every tongue , appealed more forcibly to the romantic admiration of Alida ; and , apart from all tender associations of the past , regarding him only in the light of an acquaintance of the day , she would have felt an interest in the society of Max that no other of his sex whom she had hitherto known could inspire . 
There might possibly , too , be something in the altered aspect of Greyslaer which more or less affected the light in which a woman 's eye would regard him , now that his cheek had lost its freshness from hardship and exposure ; and that almost boyish air which characterized his appearance even in early manhood , had been changed by more recent habits of action , of command , and of self-reliance . 
Greyslaer was to her as a boy no more ; and if her own feelings had not taught her thus , the conviction must have been forced upon her by the light in which , as she saw , he was regarded by those far older than herself . 
His opinions upon all subjects seemed to be quoted by those who were his immediate associates ; and she heard continually of grave cases in which Greyslaer 's judgment was appealed to by members of the Committee of Safety , and others charged with the various clashing powers of the provisionary government of the period . 
The friendship of such a man she felt was to be valued , and she even acknowledged to herself that , had not circumstances placed an insurmountable barrier between them , Greyslaer -- judging him only by the character he had formed for himself in the world -- Max Greyslaer was the man of all others to whom her proud and aspiring heart would have been rendered up . 
Alida might love Greyslaer , but she never could be his . 
`` I 'll go no more , '' said Greyslaer one evening , as , throwing himself dejectedly into the saddle , he passed through the gate which opened upon the grounds of the Hawksnest , and turned his horse 's head toward the garrison ; `` I 'll go no more . 
there are no sympathies between that woman and myself ; there never was , there never can be any ; '' and he struck the rowels into his horse almost fiercely , as , thus bitterly musing , one angry thought after another chased through his mind . 
he exclaimed , reining up suddenly again to a slower pace . 
The very constitution of his mind was of a loyal , venerating kind ; -LRB- for , deeply imbued as he was , by the classic culture of his mind , with that ancient , intellectual spirit of republicanism which had at once determined his political position in the present civil struggle , Greyslaer , under another system of education , would probably have turned out almost a bigoted royalist ;-RRB- and the senitment which still attached him to Alida was nearly akin to that which , in another age and under other circumstances , would have inspired his self-devotion to some dethroned and expatriated prince , like him for whom one of his immediate ancestors had suffered upon the scaffold . 
But the feelings and reflections of Greyslaer , upon which we have dwelt , perhaps , somewhat too minutely , received a new direction at this moment , as he heard the clatter of a horse 's hoofs rapidly approaching in an opposite course to that which he was travelling . 
The speed of the coming horseman seemed to announce that he was either fleeing from pursuit , or riding upon some errand of the utmost urgency ; and , ere Greyslaer could make out the figure of the strange rider amid the darkness , his conjectures as to his character were cut short by an occurrence which may best be told in another chapter . 
Therewas a blacksmith 's shop at the forks of the road , a few yards in advance of the spot where Greyslaer , the moment he became aware of the stranger 's approach , had reined up to challenge him in passing . 
Greyslaer , who clearly beheld the adventure from where he stood , spurred forward , threw himself from the saddle , and assisted the blacksmith , who had rushed to his door , in raising the fallen man from the ground . 
interrogated Greyslaer , a dark chain of suspicious and vengeful thoughts forming in his mind with the rapidity of lightning . 
`` In safe hands enough , Wolfert , '' answered the blacksmith , as Greyslaer silently motioned him to reply . 
cried the ruffian , rubbing his bloodshot eyes , but not yet raising his head , as he rolled them from side to side . 
`` Um ... ... Has Greyslaer , the rebel captain , passed along here yet to-night ? '' 
Valtmeyer answered only by raising himself upon the bench whereon he had been laid ; but he moved so stiffly and slowly that Greyslaer had time to withdraw a few steps within the deep shadows of the place . 
and the desperado fumbled around his waist for the arms he generally wore there . 
The first movement he made in lifting it threw the light full upon Greyslaer . 
As Hans stumbled over a billet of wood in falling , Valtmeyer might yet have followed up his advantage ; but Greyslaer , who , with drawn sword , had planted himself in the doorway to prevent his escape in the first instance , now rushed forward and dealt a blow which would have smitten any common man to the earth , and even the brawny Valtmeyer went down on one knee beneath it . 
Through this he flung himself , unharmed by the pistol-shot with which Greyslaer almost simultaneously accompanied his sudden movement . 
Valtmeyer 's belt for holding his arms , to which his bullet-pouch was still attached , was the first thing that caught Greyslaer 's eye as he re-entered the cabin . 
The weapons he handed over to Hans , who seemed better contented with the issue of the night 's adventure as he scrutinized his share of the spoils with a workman-like eye . 
But there were also letters relating to private matters which awakened a deeper personal interest in Greyslaer , and whose contents he did not feel called upon himself to communicate , save to the parties immediately interested . 
One of them was from the famous Joe Bettys to Bradshawe himself ; and the heart of Greyslaer thrilled within him as he read the following passage : `` Wolfert will do all that is necessary among our friends in the Valley . 
But to return , '' & c. Greyslaer could read no farther . 
The characters swam before his eyes ; his senses became dizzied ; and , were it not for the support of the workbench against which he leaned , he must have fallen to the ground . 
It was but for an instant , however , that he was thus unmanned , and it were impossible to say what feeling predominated in the conflicting emotions which for that first moment overwhelmed him ; though a wild joy , an eager and confident hope prompted his next movement , as , calling in an agitated voice for his horse , he waited not for Hans to pass out of the door , but , brushing almost rudely past him , threw himself into the saddle , and galloped off in the direction of the Hawksnest . 
Greyslaer , before reaching the Hawksnest , was challenged by the party of his friends whom he met returning from their evening visit , and whose approach , though the young officers rode gayly along , talking and laughing with each other , he did not notice till he was in the midst of them . 
A few hurried words , suggesting on their part that he must have forgotten something of importance , and implying upon his that he would overtake them before they reached the garrison , was all that passed between them as he brushed impatiently by . 
The family had all retired when he reached the homestead ; but a light still burned in Alida 's apartments . 
He threw his rein over the paling , and , after trying the outer door in vain , stepped back from the verandah , and looked to the only window through which the light appeared . 
Greyslaer clambered to the top of the balcony , and tapped against the panes of glass in the moment that the light was extinguished . 
`` Fear not , '' he said , `` it is I , Max Greyslaer . 
Captain Greyslaer , '' she exclaimed , `` what urgent peril can have -- my brother Derrick , it is not of him -- '' `` No , no , no peril -- nothing of Derrick -- undo the door below -- it is of you -- it is your concerns alone which have brought me here at this untimely hour . '' 
said Alida ; for this fanciful allusion seemed so unsuited to the earnest purposes of the moment , and was so unlike the wonted manly directness of Greyslaer 's mind , that , coupled with his agitated manner and the other strange circumstances of the interview , Alida was shocked for the moment with the apprehension that his brain might be disordered . 
whispered Alida , clasping her hands , as a light seemed to break in upon her from Greyslaer 's words . 
Greyslaer quickly passed through the window , and , catching her fainting form from the floor , bore her out to the balcony . 
Supporting her there on one knee , he anxiously chafed her pulses , while the refreshing breeze of night , playing through the long tresses which drooped over her shoulders , aided in reviving his lovely burden . 
The impulse is resistless which makes Greyslaer , in that moment , snatch her to his bosom . 
`` Yes , dearest Max , I willbe yours : '' are not those the words she murmurs in reply to his caress ? 
But in another instant Alida extricates herself from his embrace ; and though she suffers him still to retain her hand , her voice is yet somehow painfully constrained and altered as she speaks what follows . 
Greyslaer , I fear me this flood of happiness has come in too quickly to last for either of us . 
But , whatever be the fate of the regard I bear you , Greyslaer , you have won it , and it is yours . 
My name must be cleared , not only to your satisfaction , Greyslaer , but to that of all who have ever heard its sound , before I will change it for yours ; and in these troubled times it is long before I can hope for such a result . '' 
`` Yes , in the class with which we have most mingled , my story is but little known ; but there must be many of the country people of a different grade , though worthy of respect as those who sometimes pretend to engross it all , who can not but have heard of it ; and I would not have the simplest rustic cherish a memory that can do irreverence to the wife of Greyslaer . 
Greyslaer , who knew too well the character of Alida to remonstrate against her purpose when settled , determined at least to defer whatever he had to urge against her resolution until a more propitious season . 
They parted -- not with the fond and caressing adieux of newer and happier lovers , but when the hand which Greyslaer was loath to release trembled in his pressure as he bade farewell , he stooped to print a single kiss upon the pale cheek which was not withdrawn from him . 
many were the changes of mood that Greyslaer was yet doomed to know ere the story of his strange love was ended . 
But of the delay that sickens hope , the doubts that wither it ; of the chilling thoughts , the shadowy fears of the future , he dreamed not , cared not now , more than he did for the clouds which crept over the skies and obscured the path before him . 
His mind was filled with but one idea , which excluded all others . 
He knew -- what once to know or once to believe , in that first hour of belief or knowledge , makes all the world a Paradise around -- He knew that he wasBELOVED . 
A yearhas passed away -- the second year of the Revolution -- and Greyslaer is not nearer the fruition of his hopes than in the hour when they first dawned anew upon his soul . 
The calls of military duty have , in the mean time , carried him far from his native valley , to which , with a sword whose temper has been tried on many a Southern field , he is now returning ; for New-York at this moment needs all her children to defend her soil . 
About the time of Greyslaer 's fight , was n't it ? '' 
Oh , you should have been in Greyslaer 's company to see discipline , and that , too , jist when the war was breaking out ; only ask Cornet Kit Lansingh , when the poor boy comes safe to hand again from that wild tramp of hisn ! 
Major Greyslaer has been dead these six months , and his ghost ought to be laid by this time . 
As for poor Cornet Kit , the only service we can render him is to drink his memory all standing . '' 
The deep bay of a house-dog was the first thing that reminded Greyslaer that some sentinels at least were not wanting to watch over their masterless homesteads . 
The words , which were Greyslaer 's own , had , indeed , no allusion to his own story , but they had been thrown off in one of those melancholy moods when the imprisoned spirit of sadness will borrow any guise from fancy to steal out from the heart ; and coming from the lips they did , they were now not less apposite to the passing tone of his mind than in the moment they were written . 
The song had ceased , but Greyslaer , before it finished , had approached near enough to hear the sigh with which it ended ; for how much of the past did not that single sigh repay him , even if his long account of affection had not been already balanced by the true heart that breathed it ! 
In another moment Alida is folded to his bosom . 
But as she knew , in anticipation , that he was on his way to the seat of war , and could only have snatched this brief interview in passing to the post of peril , the task of cheering her spirits was a difficult one . 
said Alida , half reproachfully , as she placed her hand in that which gently drew her back to the seat which she had left by Greyslaer 's side . 
The proud affection with which she now gazed upon the manly mien of her lover seemed more akin to her natural character than did the anxiety of feeling which again resumed its influence in her bosom ; an anxiety which continually , throughout the evening , sent a shade of sadness to her features , and which Greyslaer , remembering in long months afterward , had but too much reason to think proceeded from one of those unaccountable presentiments of approaching evil which all have at some time known . 
Since the memorable night when Greyslaer 's providential discovery of the real position in which Alida stood toward Bradshawe had won from her the first avowal of her regard , this painful subject had been rarely alluded to by either ; nor , closely as it mingled with the story of their loves , will it seem strange that a matter so delicate should be avoided by both in an interview like the present . 
But though the state of the times and the duties which called Greyslaer to the field , and which might still for a long period defer their union , seemed , as they conversed together , the only difficulties that obstructed their mutual path to happiness , there was in the heart of Alida a vague apprehension of impediments yet undreamed of and far less easy to be surmounted . 
In the mean time there was one little circumstance , which , calling up a degree of thoughtfulness , if not of pain , in the mind of Greyslaer , would alone have impaired the full luxury of the present hour . 
`` And who , if I may ask , '' rejoined Greyslaer , gravely , `` is this ` poor little Guise , ' who is so familiar a subject of interest to you ? '' 
said Greyslaer , with difficulty suppressing an exclamation of impatience at the levity of his friend . 
Greyslaer , who seemed to be actuated by some more serious motive than mere curiosity for holding this inquisition over the sleeping urchin , followed her steps without speaking . 
The features were so decidedly European , that the tawny skin and the eyes , which were closed from Greyslaer 's view , were all he thought that could proclaim an Indian origin for this true scion of the Mohawk chieftain 's line , as Derrick had represented him to his sister . 
`` You do not tell me what you think of my proteg é , '' said Alida , as Greyslaer , musing thus , was silent for a moment or two after they returned to the sitting-room . 
The dawn of the next morning found Greyslaer again upon the road toward Fort Dayton , where a pleasurable meeting with more than one old comrade awaited him , and where a military duty devolved upon him which , slight in character as it at first appeared , was destined , in its fulfilment , to have a most serious bearing upon his own happiness and that of Alida . 
Thereader has perhaps gathered , from the interview between Greyslaer and Alida last described , that the characters of both have undergone no slight change since the period when they were first introduced into our story : that Max , as the successful wooer and the travelled soldier who had seen the world , is now a somewhat different being from the visionary student , the fond-dreaming and willow-wearing lover , whose romantic musings have heretofore , perhaps , called out , at times , a pitying smile from the reader : that Alida , the once haughty empress of his heart , whose pride , though utterly removed from ordinary selfishness , had still a species of self-idolatry as its basis , had been not less affected in her disposition by the softening influences of love and sorrow , and that patient realization of hope-deferred which tameth alike the heart of man or woman . 
The change in Greyslaer is one that all men more or less undergo as the sobering influence of riper years steals over them , and their minds are brought more in contact with the practical things of life ; when , having tested their powers in the world of action , the frame of the mind becomes , as it were , more closely knit and sinewy , and seeks objects to grapple with more substantial than the shadowy creations of the ideal world in which erst they dwelt . 
It is true , that in the hour of her betrothal to Greyslaer she had listened with the kindling delight of some stern heroine of romantic story to the deep-breathed vengeance of her lover against the man who had plotted her ruin . 
Nor had the views of Greyslaer , though affected by different causes from those which swayed Alida , altered less in this respect . 
If , then , either the fortune of war or a higher Providence should seem at any time to single out him as the appointed instrument of Bradshawe 's punishment , let it bring no reproach to the chivalrous nature of Greyslaer if he should fulfil his stern office with the methodical coldness of the mere soldier . 
The latter duty was one of some delicacy , and requiring a cooler judgment than that of De Roos ; and Weston selected Major Greyslaer as the officer to whom it might best be intrusted . 
The expedition of Greyslaer had a different issue . 
Ever cool and steady in his purposes when duty called upon him to collect his energies , this officer advanced with speed and secrecy to the goal he had in view . 
MacDonald alone sprang from his seat , and , darting into an adjacent closet , made his escape through an open window in the moment that Greyslaer entered the room with a file of bayonets . 
That officer , who had stood for the moment astonished at the scene , now made a fiery movement to clutch the papers from Greyslaer as the latter quietly ran his eye over their superscription ; but he instantly found himself pinioned by two sturdy fellows behind him . 
And while Mr. Schoonmacker and others of the leading Tories in the opposite room were listening in dignified dejection to the measures which Greyslaer stated , in the most courteous terms , it was his painful duty to adopt in regard to them , their followers were exchanging tokens of recognition with old neighbours and former comrades of the opposite party . 
But when another of the rustic gossipers pointed significantly toward the room in which Major Greyslaer was engaged , while whispering that Miss De Roos had now `` a raal truelove of her own , and no mistake , '' the features of the Tory captain writhed with an expression almost fiendish . 
Thedoom which Greyslaer had , with military sternness , predicted , was formally , by a military court , pronounced upon Bradshawe that very night ; but when the hour of execution arrived on the morrow , events were at hand which , postponing it for the present , gave him , in fact , the advantages of an indefinite reprieval . 
Major Greyslaer , seeing the causeway partially cleared of its struggling combatants , rallies a compact band of well-disciplined followers , and charges the thickets in advance . 
But the throng through which he cleaves a passage closes instantly behind him , and , with the loss of half his men , he is obliged to cut his way back to his comrades , where the chieftain Teondetha , with his Oneida rifles , covers the shattered band till Greyslaer can take new order . 
Balt , whose unerring rifle had already made many a foeman bite the dust , had ensconced himself behind a shattered oak , a little in advance of a thicket of birch and juniper , from which Christian Lansingh , with others of Greyslaer 's followers , kept up a steady fire , and thus covered Balt 's position . 
The worthy hunter absolutely foamed with rage when he saw several of his acquaintance , who were less protected than himself , thus falling singly beneath the murderous tomahawks of Brant 's people ; but his anger received a new turn when he beheld Greyslaer breaking his cover and rushing with clubbed rifle after one of the retreating Mohawks , who had despatched an unfortunate militiaman within a few paces of him . 
Greyslaer , as Balt spoke , drove the angular metal with which the stock of the weapon was shod deep into the brain of the flying savage , while Balt himself , in the same moment , brought down a javelin man who was flying to the assistance of the other . 
General Herkimer , who had already seen Greyslaer 's spirited effort to cut his way through the enemy with a handful of men , deemed this the fitting time to execute the movement upon a larger scale . 
Many of this corps had been so severely handled by Greyslaer 's men in the first part of the battle , that they had fallen back to take care of their wounded . 
It was in the heat of the fight , when Brant 's dusky followers , flitting from tree to tree , had at one time almost surrounded Greyslaer 's small command , that Balt , in the thickest of the fire , heard a well-known voice calling him by name from behind a large tree near ; and , looking out from the huge trunk which sheltered his own person , he recognised the only Indian with whom his prejudices against the race had ever allowed him to be upon terms of intimacy . 
The Greens , attacked thus impetuously in their rear , turn partly round to confront this bold assailant ; but Greyslaer has already cloven his way through their line , and Christian Lansingh , with a score of active borderers , have rushed tumultuously into his wake . 
Thrice wheeling with the suddenness of a falcon in mid air , has Greyslaer hurled himself upon their crumbling ranks ; and now , as one division is nearly annihilated by that last charge , De Roos , emulous of his friend , heads the onslaught against the remaining fragment of the royalists . 
His orange plume again floats foremost ; and loud as when the fight was new , his cheering voice is heard , `` Carry on , men , carry o -- '' An Indian whoop -- the last that was heard upon the field of Oriskany -- followed the single shot which hushed that voice and laid that orange plume in the dust . 
Press my hand , Derrick , if I have guessed truly that the child is yours ; make any -- the least , the feeblest sign , and your boy shall be as dear to Greyslaer as his own . '' 
The three white men have scattered twigs and tufts of grass over the spot before they leave it ; and they turn to see why the Indian still lingers behind them ; an exclamation of displeasure , as at beholding some heathen rite , bursts from the lips of Greyslaer as he sees a column of smoke arise from a pile of brush which Teondetha has already heaped together . 
`` The pagan Redskin , what is he doing ? '' 
`` He has preserved all that remains of poor Captain Dirk ; for the wild beasts will never scratch through the ashes to disturb him . '' 
Of the officers to whom the arduous duty of pursuing him into the wilderness was intrusted , few were more distinguished for zeal and efficiency than Major Greyslaer , whose knowledge of forest life enabled him to co-operate to the greatest advantage with the Oneida allies of the patriot cause . 
Returning from this arduous and perilous service , Greyslaer , when halting to refresh his men at the Oneida Castle , had an opportunity of witnessing the wedded happiness of `` The Spreading Dew , '' who was long since united to her true warrior , and who welcomed him with proud feelings of gratification to her husband 's lodge . 
Alida herself , though in the first agony of her grief she would have shrunk from communion even with Greyslaer , yet , when the paroxysm had passed away , looked naturally to her lover -- the earliest and closest friend of the brother she had lost -- as her best consoler ; and she yearned for his appearance by her side with that impatience of disappointment or delay which , though chiefly characteristic of poor Derrick 's impetuous and irrestrainable disposition , was in no slight degree shared as a family trait by his sister . 
The fate of Major Greyslaer did not lead him to have a share in the glorious operations of Schuyler and Gates ; while the large force which had thus been withdrawn from the Valley of the Mohawk , rendering the utmost vigilance necessary in those who were left to guard it , made it impossible for an officer of his standing and importance to be absent on furlough at such a season . 
The spring arrived at last ; and what were the hopes it brought with its blossoms , when Greyslaer was about to avail himself at last of a long-promised furlough ? 
The letters of Alida , meanwhile , had long breathed a spirit which filled him with anxiety . 
At first Greyslaer thought that it was the death of her brother which had thus preyed upon her spirits ; and his replies to her letters bore the tenderest sympathy with her sorrows as he united in mourning over the early-closed career of his gallant and high-spirited friend . 
Was the grave , then , about to yawn between Greyslaer and his hopes , to swallow them up for ever ? 
And did Alida wish thus gradually to wean him from the wild idolatry which had been the passion of his life ? 
to prepare him for the passing away of his idol ? 
He thought , with terror , that it must be so . 
`` Yes , '' said Greyslaer on the day that he was at last to be relieved from his military duties , as he read one of those passages in an agony of emotion , with which something of solace was still intermingled , `` yes , she feels herself fading into the grave . 
His eyes were strained on vacancy as he spoke , and he stood with arms wildly outstretched , as if to arrest some beloved phantom which seemed melting before them . 
And what was the monstrous tale that wrought this change upon a mind so well attempered , a soul so steadfast , a heart so true in all that can approve its worth as was that of Greyslaer ? 
Rumours of Greyslaer 's approaching nuptials with the unhappy lady who was thus made the general subject of conversation , reached the ears of Bradshawe while chafing beneath these charges , and the thought of the misery they would inflict upon his victims might have been sufficient even for his revengeful spirit ; but he determined , with a hellish ingenuity , to fling the imputation of the outrage from himself , and , at the same time , to plant its stigma in an exaggerated form upon her whose name had been so recklessly dragged in by his persecutors . 
He first set afloat insinuations in regard to the parentage of the half-blood Indian boy who had long been an inmate of the family at the Hawksnest , and who had more than once visited Albany under the care of Alida , whom the child so much resembled ! 
And had Bradshawe stood near , gifted with a hundred lives , Greyslaer could one by one have torn them all from out his mortal frame . 
The object of his vengeance was far away , but Max Greyslaer from that moment was not less in thought -- a MURDERER ! 
An hour had passed away with Greyslaer ; an hour of phrensied feeling . 
The soldier who was sent to summon him to the mess-table reported that Major Greyslaer 's quarters were vacant . 
Greyslaer stood there with a cloak and valise over his arm , superintending in person the equipment of his horse for a long journey . 
His cheek was pale , his eye looked sunken , and his aspect altogether was that of one who had for the first time ventured forth after a long and serious ill-ness ; yet there was no fever about his eyes ; they were rather , indeed , dull , cold , and glassy . 
The officers , who simultaneously uttered a cry of surprise at the strange alteration in the appearance of their friend since the morning , were -- they hardly knew why -- instantly silenced by Greyslaer 's manner as he turned round to answer their salutation . 
They had come there , impelled by motives of friendly curiosity , to ask why he broke away so suddenly from their society . 
When all was ready , Greyslaer threw himself into the saddle , murmured something about his having already taken his leave of the colonel , and , as the two officers thought they remembered afterward , left some words of kind farewell for others of the mess . 
But the ghastly appearance of Greyslaer , the icy coldness of the hand he gave them to shake , and his strangely unnatural and statue-like appearance as he slowly moved off unattended , struck a chilling amazement into the hearts of his friends , that left them perfectly stupified for the moment . 
They had broken away from the table to take a cordial farewell of one whose generous , soldierly temperament , not less than his brilliant social qualities , had made him the pride and delight of the mess . 
There was no moon , but the stars shone brightly above him as Greyslaer crossed the fatal field of Oriskany . 
His horse snuffing the air , which , in the warm , moist night of teeming springtime , stole out from the tainted earth , first reminded him of the scene of slaughter over which he was riding . 
He passed the tree beneath which the remains of De Roos had been laid . 
He did not shudder . 
He gave no tear to the recollection of the past ; neither did one thought arise to rebuke the memory of his early friend for present sorrows . 
He did not even envy him the repose of his woodland grave . 
He only looked coldly upon the spot as a mere landmark of Fate , where one breathing being , warm with life and intelligence , had found his allotted bourne ; and why ponder upon a doom common to all -- fixed , predetermined , and to which he himself , as he believed , was then moving at such a cold , passionless pace ? 
It was long after midnight before Greyslaer halted , and it was then only for the purpose of refreshing his horse . 
The dawn found him again upon his journey , and , by changing his steed for a fresher one , he reached the Hawksnest before evening . 
His original determination led him direct to Albany , where Bradshawe was still under durance ; but when he found himself in the neighbourhood of his homestead , and obliged to halt for a few hours from the impossibility of getting another relay , he felt himself irresistibly prompted to make a secret visit to the premises . 
It was too early yet , perhaps , for lights to show through the casement ; but , if there had been any there , Greyslaer could not have seen them , for every shutter seemed closed . 
`` Me mighty glad to see you , massy , '' said the negress , lighting a candle , after she had unbolted the door to Greyslaer ; `` for Dinah go to bed when they leib her all alone , so that she not see the spook . 
said Greyslaer , with unnatural calmness , as he caught hold of the back of a chair to steady himself ; for , of a truth , he for a moment feared that Alida , stung to madness by the cruel nature of her sorrows , might have hurried upon some tragic fate , he scarcely knew what . 
The answer of the old servant took an instant load from his bosom . 
Greyslaer made no answer , but , asking for the key of the house , lighted a stable-lantern , and telling Dinah that he should not want her attendance , entered the deserted house . 
He gained the parlour , which had beheld the last ill-omened parting of the lovers , so sad yet so sweet withal . 
The room looked much the same as when last he left it , save that there were no fresh-gathered flowers upon the mantelpiece , and some few slight articles belonging to Alida had been removed . 
He placed the lantern upon a table and opened its door ; for the flickering light , dancing upon one or two portraits with which the walls were hung , gave them a sort of fitful life that was annoying . 
He wished to realize fully that he was alone . 
He looked around to see if there were no memento or trace of the last hours which Alida had passed in the same chamber . 
A little shawl , thrown carelessly across the arm of a sofa , met his eye . 
He took it up , looked at it , and knew it to be Alida 's . 
Greyslaer had never been what , in modern parlance , is called `` a lady 's man ; '' and though he could sometimes tell one article of dress from another , he was wholly unskilled in the effeminate knowledge and toilet-like arts which distinguish that enviable class of our sex . 
It was curious , therefore , to see him stand and fold this scarf with the utmost nicety and neatness . 
He handled it , indeed , like something precious ; and , from the delicacy with which he pressed it to his lips before placing it in his bosom , he seemed to imagine the senseless fabric imbued with life ; but all his motions now were like those of one who moves in a dream . 
At last he took up the lantern to retire from the apartment , so desolate in itself , yet peopled with so many haunting memories . 
A letter , which had been unobserved when he placed it there , lay beneath it . 
Yes , Greyslaer , we are parted , and for ever ... ... The meshes of villany which have been woven around me it is impossible to disentangle . 
The features of Greyslaer betrayed no emotion as he read this letter the first , the second , and even the third time , for thrice did he peruse it before he became fully master of its contents ; and even then , from the vacant gaze which he fixed upon its characters , it would seem as if his mind were by no means earnestly occupied with what it contained . 
Let no man sneer at his weakness , unless he has once loved as did Greyslaer ; unless that love has been blasted as his was ; unless he has felt himself the victim of an iron destiny , when the heart , softened by years of unchanging tenderness , was least fitted to bear up under the doom to which he must yield ! 
Greyslaer knew the singular firmness , the inflexible determination of Alida 's character . 
He believed , as she did , that it was now impossible to wipe away the reproach that attached to her name . 
He felt that he would see her no more . 
Greyslaer himself was all truth and nobleness ! 
How could so mean and miserable a thought have found entrance into a soul like his , regarding one as high-strung as itself , and with which it had once mingled in full and rich accord ? 
Greyslaer , who , even at such a time , was not forgetful of the humble dependants upon his bounty , handed the old woman a few shillings to replenish her store of tobacco , the only luxury left to her age and infirmity ; and , leaving a trifle or two for the other servants , took a kind leave of old Dinah , and returned to the inn where he had left his horse . 
The gray of the morning found him once more upon the road ; and before sunset the spires of Schenectady , the last village he was to pass through before reaching Albany , rose to his view . 
But we must now leave him to look after other personages of our story . 
Greyslaer , in all his movements that night , acted like one who is impelled in a dream by some resistless power within him ; and he wasspellbound -- if the icy wand of demon passion hath aught in it of magic power above the human heart . 
He approached the house , and discovered , by the glimmer of a dull lamp within the entry , that the street door was ajar . 
He reached the door itself , and , opening it still farther with a cautious hand , beheld the sentinel stretched upon a bench in the hall , and snoring so obstreperously , that , if his slumbers were not feigned , they must be the effect of deep intoxication . 
Greyslaer paused a moment to discover if there were no greater obstacle to his ingress to the premises than those which had hitherto presented themselves . 
Suddenly he heard a step in the room nearest to the street door ; it showed that the family which occupied the lower floor of the house had not yet retired . 
Greyslaer startled slightly -LRB- did the guilty soul of a murderer make him thus tremulous ? -RRB- 
, and , turning round at the noise , the scabbard of his sword rattled against the bench whereon reposed the sleeping soldier . 
cried Greyslaer , raising his hat from his brow , and making a stride toward the table . 
You 're the rebel Greyslaer , who , having got wind of this night 's attempt , have come mousing here after farther evidence to hang me . 
`` I come on no such business , '' said Greyslaer , smiling bitterly . 
The passionless , icy tone in which Greyslaer spoke , seemed to unnerve even the iron heart of Bradshawe . 
If it 's satisfaction you seek of me , Major Greyslaer -- '' cried Bradshawe , hurriedly , as , holding the chair before him , he backed toward a corner of the apartment . 
But suddenly the hand of Greyslaer is arrested by an iron grip from behind ; he turns to confront the assailant who has thus seized him , when Bradshawe , quickly recovering himself , deals a blow with the chair -- of which he has not yet released his hold -- a blow that brings Greyslaer instantly to the ground . 
Greyslaer hesitates not to follow ; but the mutual assistance which the fugitives render each other enables them to scale the gardenwall more quickly than their pursuer , and their receding forms are swallowed up in the surrounding darkness before Greyslaer has gained the quay to which they have retreated . 
The reviving air of night , the inspiriting consciousness of freedom after so long incarceration , brought back at once to Bradshawe his wonted energy and hardihood of character ; and when Bettys provided him with a weapon to use in any extremity to which they might be reduced in accomplishing the final steps of their escape , the bold Tory could scarcely resist the impulse to turn back and take signal vengeance upon the man who had momentarily humbled his haughty spirit ; but every instant was precious , and the fugitives paused not in making their way to the point where they expected to find Valtmeyer 's boat waiting them . 
Let us now return to Greyslaer , whom we left groping his way among the midnight shadows upon the river 's bank when the fugitives escaped from his pursuit , and flitted along the water-side while he was scaling the walls of the garden . 
The escape of Bradshawe , under all the circumstances which attended his imprisonment , wrought up his pursuer to a pitch of phrensy that completely bewildered him . 
It was not merely that he was thus foiled in his meditated vengeance on the instant when the cruel slanderer of Alida seemed placed by fate completely in his hands , but the idea that Bradshawe should make good his retreat within the lines of the royalists , and thus triumphantly leave the stigma which he had planted to work its dire consequences , when he himself was secure and far away from his victims , made Greyslaer frantic ; and Max , scarce knowing whither he hurried or what he could hope for in his wild pursuit , darted hither and thither amid the labyrinth of lumber which was heaped up along the busy quays of Albany . 
In the mean time , the darkness of the night , and the other obstructions to pursuit already mentioned , soon cut short the frantic search of Greyslaer , who , emerging from the heavy shadows of the place , thought that he again had caught sight of the fugitives as Valtmeyer suddenly confronted him in his path . 
`` Miss me , you scoundrel , and your fate is certain , '' cried the undaunted Max ; but Valtmeyer had no idea of farther compromising the escape of himself and his friends by the report of arms at such a moment ; and , seeing that the attempt to awe his foeman into silence had failed , he drew his hanger and rushed upon Greyslaer ; the sword of Max was already out , and the ruffian strength of Valtmeyer found an admirable match in the skill , the steadiness , and alertness of movement of his opponent , though the darkness amid which they fought deprived Greyslaer of much of his superiority as a fencer . 
Thrice did the outlaw attempt , by beating down the guard of his opponent , to fling his huge form upon Max and bear him to the earth ; and thrice did the sword of Greyslaer drink the blood of the brawny borderer as he thus essayed a death-grapple with his slender foe . 
And now Greyslaer , who has hitherto yielded ground before the furious onslaught of the other , begins to press him backward foot by foot , until the edge of the quay , upon which Valtmeyer stands , permits him to retreat no farther . 
He grinds his outlandish oaths more savagely between his teeth as he feels his life-blood failing him , and , conscious that his hour has come , seems bent alone upon bearing his gallant foeman with him to destruction . 
He hears the sullen dashing of the waves at his feet , and glares furtively around , whether from now first realizing the double danger near , or to distract for a moment the attention of his antagonist , it matters not ; for now , quickly dropping his weapon , he springs forward and clutches Max in his arms in the same moment that a final thrust passes through his own body . 
The life of Greyslaer hangs upon a hair , as , with knee planted against the breast of Valtmeyer and one hand at his throat , he clings with the other to the topmost timber of the pier ; when , suddenly , the mortal grip of the dying ruffian is relaxed . 
But the clashing of their swords had not escaped the ears of the patrol , who hurried toward the spot whence came the sounds just as the conflict was terminating ; Greyslaer had scarcely regained his feet before he was in the hands of the guard -- a prisoner . 
Had Greyslaer been recognised in the moment that , covered with dust and gore , he rose breathless from the embrace of the dying Valtmeyer , and was seized by the party of Whig soldiery , the charges that were that very night preferred against him by the Tory friends of Bradshawe , in order to conceal their share in the escape of that partisan , had never been listened to ; nor could their successful attempt at criminating him have made the head it did . 
The head of the household avers that it was a man of Greyslaer 's height and general appearance . 
He had heard his step in the entry , unlocked his door , and looked out to see who it might be ; but the stranger , having already reached the staircase and begun ascending , his face was averted from deponent , who could see only the general outline of the stranger 's figure . 
The testimony of the night patrol -- less willingly given -- proves the condition in which Greyslaer was found , with dress disordered and bloodstained , as if fresh from some deadly encounter . 
There was but one circumstance which suggested another agency than that of Greyslaer in the doings of this eventful night , and that was the attack on Mr. Taylor 's premises , which had first alarmed the town . 
But , then , what motive could have hurried on a man of Greyslaer 's habits and condition of life to a deed so foul as that of murder ? 
And had not Bradshawe been compelled , by the venomous assaults which had been made upon his own character , to rip up that hideous story , and publish to the world the infamy of Greyslaer 's mistress ? 
Such was the testimony and such the arguments which had lost Greyslaer his personal liberty , and which now threatened him with a felon 's fate upon the scaffold ! 
she shrieked , starting back with features which , for a single instant convulsed with horror , were changed to more than woman 's tenderness as again she caught the hands of Max in both of hers , `` you are not , you can not be a -- a -- no , Greyslaer , no , you can not be a -- murderer . 
If there was something of bitterness in the tone in which Max spoke these words , which gave a double character to what he said , Alida did not notice it as passionately she cried , `` Kneel , then , Greyslaer , kneel here with me ; kneel in gratitude to the Power that preserved thee from the perpetration of this wickedness , and so mysteriously foiled the contrivings of thy heart ; kneel in thankfulness to the chastening hand that hath so soon sent this painful trial to punish this lapse from virtue -- to purge thy heart from its guilty imaginings ; kneel in prayer that this cloud which we have brought upon ourselves may in Heaven 's own time pass away ; or , if not , ITS will be done ! '' 
But Alida has sprung to her feet , has dashed the tears from her eyes , and her clear voice thrills in the ears of her lover as thus she speaks him : `` Hear me , Greyslaer : 't was I first infused these fell thoughts into your bosom ; 't was I , in the besotted season of youth , and folly , and girlish fantasy -- Ithat taught you this impious lesson of murderous retribution . 
But the next moment all this had passed away entirely , and it was only the broken-hearted , the stillloving , the imploring Christian woman that kneeled at the feet of Greyslaer . 
His first desire was to communicate instantly with Greyslaer ; but he had never been taught to write , and his mother-wit suggested the impropriety of trusting matters so delicate to a third party by employing an amanuensis . 
How far the grand jury which returned the indictment against Greyslaer were influenced by that clamour , and what underhand share the great portion of its members may have had in first raising it , we shall not now say . 
The appearance of Greyslaer upon the eventful morning of his trial was remembered long afterward by more than one of the many females who crowded the courtroom on the occasion ; but when long years and the intervention of many a stirring theme among the subsequent scenes of the Revolution had made his story nearly forgotten , the antiquated dame who flourished at that day would still describe to her youthful hearers the exact appearance of `` young Major Max '' as his form emerged from the crowd , which gave way on either side , while he strode forward to take his place in the prisoner 's box . 
Before the preliminary forms of the trial were entered upon , it was observed by the officers of the court that the prisoner at the bar seemed wholly unprovided with counsel ; and the presiding judge , glancing toward an eminent advocate , seemed about to suggest to Major Greyslaer that his defence had better be intrusted to a more experienced person than himself . 
Greyslaer rose , thanked him for his half-uttered courtesy , and signified that he had already resisted the persuasions of the few friends who were present to adopt the course which was so kindly intimated ; but that he was determined that no means but his own should be used to extricate him from the painful situation in which he was placed . 
His story was a plain one ; and , when once told , he should throw himself upon God and his country for an honourable acquittal . 
His exordium , indeed , which was conceived with great address , consisted chiefly of a complimentary tribute to those talents ; and he dwelt so happily upon the mental accomplishments of the gentleman against whom a most unpleasant public duty had now arrayed his own feeble powers , that Greyslaer was not only made to appear a sort of intellectual giant , who could cleave his way through any meshes of the law ; but the patriotic character , the valuable military services , and all the endearing personal qualities of the prisoner , which might have enlisted public sympathy in his favour , were lost sight of in the bright but icy renown which was thrown around his mental abilities . 
And if Greyslaer , who as yet had hardly surmised the drift of his discourse , blushed at the compliments which had been paid to his understanding , he now reddened with indignation as the cunning tongue of detraction became busy with his character ; but his ire instantly gave way to contempt when the popular pleader came to a part of his speech in which , with an ill-judged reliance upon the sordid prejudices of his hearers , he had the audacity to attempt rousing their political feelings by painting the young soldier as by birth and feeling an aristocrat , the son and representative of a courtier colonel , who in his lifetime had always acted with the patrician party in the colony . 
The allusion , which formed the climax of a well-turned period , brought Greyslaer instantly to his feet ; and he stretched out his arm as if about to interrupt the speaker . 
But his look of proud resentment changed suddenly into one of utter scorn as he glanced around the court . 
His equanimity at once returned to him ; and he resumed his place , uttering only , in a calm voice , the words , `` You may go on , sir . '' 
The cold drops stood upon the brow of Greyslaer ; and as the low , impassioned , and most eloquent tones of the speaker crept into his ears , he listened shuddering . 
The spectators , who were already impressed by the few words which Greyslaer had uttered , murmured audibly at the interruption . 
The calmness of Greyslaer , the apparent indifference to his fate which had hitherto been most remarkable , vanished the instant the bench had announced its decision against him ; and his voice now rung through the crowded chamber in an appeal that stirred the hearts and quickened the pulses of every one around him . 
It would seem , too -- though Greyslaer had only ventured upon this desperate effort to turn the tables upon his persecutors in momentary suspicion that he was unfairly dealt with -- it would seem that there was really some foundation for the charge of secret disaffection which he so boldly launched against his wily foe . 
That contains the very paper I want , '' cried Greyslaer . 
Greyslaer turned over the papers again with a keener interest , and the next moment read aloud : `` In the matter of Derrick de Roos , junior , and Annatie , the Indian woman ; deposition as to the parentage of Guise or Guisbert , their child , born out of wedlock , taken before Henry Fenton , justice of the peace , & c. , certified copy , to be deposited with Max Greyslaer , Esquire , in testimony of the claim which the said child might have upon his care and protection , as the near friend and ward of Derrick de Roos , senior , who , while living , fully acknowledged such claim , in expiation of the misdeeds of his son . 
The deposition , whose substance was given in this endorsement , need not be here recapitulated ; and the reader is already in possession of the letter from Bettys to Bradshawe , sufficiently explaining their first abduction of Miss De Roos , -LSB- 12 -RSB- which letter Greyslaer straightway produced from the pocketbook , and read aloud in open court . 
Balt , who , as we have said , was hurrying to the Hawksnest to procure the papers which , while clearing the fair fame of Alida , have already given so important a turn to the trial of Greyslaer , instantly claimed the aid of Teondetha to protect the property of his friend in the present exigence ; and , with Christian Lansingh and two or three others , these experienced border warriors threw themselves into the mansion , and prepared to defend it until the storm had passed by . 
Those who were nearest to the prisoner -- the members of the bar and other gentlemen -- the whole jury in a body , rose from their seats and rushed forward to clasp his hand ; and it was only Greyslaer himself who could check the excitement of the multitude and prevent them from bearing him off in triumph upon their shoulders . 
His voice , however , at last stilled the tumult , so that a few words from the bench could be heard . 
The reader must imagine , too , the emotions of Alida when Max and she next met , and Greyslaer made her listen to the details of the trial from the lips of his deliverer ; while Balt , pausing ever and anon as he came to some particular which he scarcely knew how to put in proper language for her ears , would at last get over the difficulty by flatly asserting that he `` disrememberedexactly what the bloody lawyer said jist at this part , but the major could tell her that in by-times . '' 
Greyslaer , soon after his marriage , had embraced the tender of a mission to one of the southern courts of Europe , with which government honoured him . 
The health of Alida had been seriously impaired by her mental sufferings ; and though loath to relinquish the active part he had hitherto taken in the great struggle of his country , Max was glad to be able to devote himself in a different way to her interests , where Alida would have the benefit of a more genial clime . 
But in the peaceful years that followed his return , many was the pleasant hunt , many the loitering tour that he and old Balt had together among the romantic hills and bright trout-streams to the north of his demesnes ; and many the token of kindness from Alida to the Spreading Dew , which Max carried with him on these excursions , when the rapid disappearance of game in his own level country induced Teondetha to shift his wigwam to these mountain solitudes . 
