In one of the most remote districts of the south of Scotland , where an ideal line , drawn along the tops of lofty and bleak mountains , separates that land from her sister kingdom , a young man , called Halbert , or Hobbie Elliot , a substantial farmer , who boasted his descent from old Martin Elliot of the Preakin-tower , noted in Border story and song , was on his return from deer-stalking . 
The cleugh , or wild ravine , into which Hobbie Elliot had followed the game , was already far behind him , and he was considerably advanced on his return homeward , when the night began to close upon him . 
To tales of this kind Hobbie had , from his childhood , lent an attentive ear ; and as no part of the country afforded such a variety of legends , so no man was more deeply read in their fearful lore than Hobbie of the Heugh-foot ; for so our gallant was called , to distinguish him from a round dozen of Elliots who bore the same Christian name . 
It cost him no efforts , therefore , to call to memory the terrific incidents connected with the extensive waste upon which he was now entering . 
In fact , they presented themselves with a readiness which he felt to be somewhat dismaying . 
The real cause of its existence had , however , passed away ; and tradition , which is as frequently an inventor of fiction as a preserver of truth , had supplied its place with a supplementary legend of her own , which now came full upon Hobbie 's memory . 
All particulars of this legend Hobbie called to mind as he passed along the moor . 
He also remembered , that , since the catastrophe had taken place , the scene of it had been avoided , at least after night-fall , by all human beings , as being the ordinary resort of kelpies , spunkies , and other demons , once the companions of the witch 's diabolical revels , and now continuing to rendezvous upon the same spot , as if still in attendance on their transformed mistress . 
Hobbie 's natural hardihood , however , manfully combated with these intrusive sensations of awe . 
He summoned to his side the brace of large greyhounds , who were the companions of his sports , and who were wont , in his own phrase , to fear neither dog nor devil ; he looked at the priming of his piece , and , like the clown in Hallowe'en , whistled up the warlike ditty of Jock of the Side , as a general causes his drums be beat to inspirit the doubtful courage of his soldiers . 
`` Now , Earnscliff , '' exclaimed Hobbie , `` I am glad to meet your honour ony gate , and company 's blithe on a bare moor like this -- it 's an unco bogilly bit -- Where hae ye been sporting ? '' 
`` Up the Carla Cleugh , Hobbie , '' answered Earnscliff , returning his greeting . 
`` Deil a fear o ' mine , '' said Hobbie , `` they hae scarce a leg to stand on . 
I have been as far as Inger-fell-foot , and deil a horn has Hobbie seen , excepting three red-wud raes , that never let me within shot of them , though I gaed a mile round to get up the wind to them , an ' a ' . 
`` Well , Hobbie , I have shot a fat buck , and sent him to Earnscliff this morning -- you shall have half of him for your grandmother . '' 
`` And ye 'll rig out the auld tower a bit , '' said Hobbie , `` and live hearty and neighbour-like wi ' the auld family friends , as the Laird o ' Earnscliff should ? 
`` Very true , Hobbie , and I will come to the Heugh-foot to dinner to-morrow with all my heart . '' 
`` Hush , hush , Hobbie -- not a word about that -- it 's a story better forgotten . '' 
`` Fie , fie , Hobbie ; it was a foolish brawl , occasioned by wine and politics -- many swords were drawn -- it is impossible to say who struck the blow . '' 
`` O for shame , Hobbie ! '' 
said Hobbie , drawing nearer to his companion , `` I was nae thinking o ' the like o ' them -- But I can guess a wee bit what keeps your hand up , Mr Patrick ; we a ' ken it 's no lack o ' courage , but the twa grey een of a bonny lass , Miss Isabel Vere , that keeps you sae sober . '' 
`` I assure you , Hobbie , '' said his companion , rather angrily , `` I assure you you are mistaken ; and it is extremely wrong of you , either to think of , or to utter , such an idea ; I have no idea of permitting freedoms to be carried so far as to connect my name with that of any young lady . '' 
retorted Elliot ; `` did I not say it was nae want o ' spunk that made ye sae mim ? 
`` Well , Hobbie , '' answered the young gentleman , `` if he should be so ill advised , I shall try to make the old tower good against him , as it has been made good by my betters against his betters many a day ago . '' 
`` Many thanks , Hobbie , answered Earnscliff ; `` but I hope we shall have no war of so unnatural and unchristian a kind in our time . '' 
`` Hout , sir , hout , '' replied Elliot ; `` it wad be but a wee bit neighbour war , and Heaven and earth would make allowances for it in this uncultivated place -- it 's just the nature o ' the folk and the land -- we canna live quiet like Loudon folk -- we haena sae muckle to do . 
`` Well , Hobbie , '' said the Laird , `` for one who believes so deeply as you do in supernatural appearances , I must own you take Heaven in your own hand rather audaciously , considering where we are walking . '' 
said Hobbie , something offended ; `` to be sure , they do say there 's a sort o ' worricows and lang-nebbit things about the land , but what need I care for them ? 
said his travelling companion . 
But Willie 's lowland bred , poor fallow , and soon frighted for himsell -- And , for the worricows , were we to meet ane on this very bit '' -- `` As is not unlikely , '' said young Earnscliff , `` for there stands your old witch , Hobbie . '' 
`` I say , '' continued Elliot , as if indignant at this hint -- `` I say , if the auld carline hersell was to get up out o ' the grund just before us here , I would think nae mair -- But , gude preserve us , Earnscliff , what can yon be ! '' 
This so much resembled his idea of the motions of an apparition , that Hobbie Elliot , making a dead pause , while his hair erected itself upon his scalp , whispered to his companion , `` It 's Auld Ailie hersell ! 
`` For Heaven 's sake , no , '' said his companion , holding down the weapon which he was about to raise to the aim -- `` for Heaven 's sake , no ; it 's some poor distracted creature . '' 
`` Ye 're distracted yoursell , for thinking of going so near to her , '' said Elliot , holding his companion in his turn , as he prepared to advance . 
she 's in nae hurry , '' continued he , growing bolder from his companion 's confidence , and the little notice the apparition seemed to take of them . 
I redd ye , Earnscliff , '' -LRB- this he added in a gentle whisper , -RRB- `` let us take a cast about , as if to draw the wind on a buck -- the bog is no abune knee-deep , and better a saft road as bad company . '' 
Earnscliff , however , in spite of his companion 's resistance and remonstrances , continued to advance on the path they had originally pursued , and soon confronted the object of their investigation . 
-- a voice replied , whose shrill , uncouth , and dissonant tones made Elliot step two paces back , and startled even his companion , `` Pass on your way , and ask nought at them that ask nought at you . '' 
ejaculated Hobbie Elliot , involuntarily , -RRB- and I will give you a lodging ? '' 
`` I would sooner lodge by mysell in the deepest of the Tarras-flow , '' again whispered Hobbie . 
`` Pass on your way , '' rejoined the figure , the harsh tones of his voice still more exalted by passion . 
`` He is mad , '' said Earnscliff . 
`` He has a look of auld Humphrey Ettercap , the tinkler , that perished in this very moss about five years syne , '' answered his superstitious companion ; `` but Humphrey wasna that awfu ' big in the bouk . 
whispered Hobbie , `` that the dead should bear sic fearfu ' ill-will to the living ! 
`` I 'll hae neither hand nor foot i n't , '' said Hobbie ; `` let the ghaist take his ain way , for God 's sake ! '' 
Earnscliff , therefore , turned and followed Hobbie , after looking back towards the supposed maniac , who , as if raised to frenzy by the interview , roamed wildly around the great stone , exhausting his voice in shrieks and imprecations , that thrilled wildly along the waste heath . 
Each made his private comments on the scene they had witnessed , until Hobbie Elliot suddenly exclaimed , `` Weel , I 'll uphaud that yon ghaist , if it be a ghaist , has baith done and suffered muckle evil in the flesh , that gars him rampauge in that way after he is dead and gane . '' 
asked Hobbie at his companion . 
`` Have with you then , friend Hobbie , '' said the young hunter ; `` and as I would not willingly have either the servants be anxious , or puss forfeit her supper , in my absence , I 'll be obliged to you to send the boy as you propose . '' 
This affair settled , they walked briskly on a little farther , when , coming to the ridge of a pretty steep hill , Hobbie Elliot exclaimed , `` Now , Earnscliff , I am aye glad when I come to this very bit -- Ye see the light below , that 's in the ha ' window , where grannie , the gash auld carline , is sitting birling at her wheel -- and ye see yon other light that 's gaun whiddin ' back and forrit through amang the windows ? 
`` Certainly marriage , by all protestant Christians , is held to be as free as God made it by the Levitical law ; so , Hobbie , there can be no bar , legal or religious , betwixt you and Miss Armstrong . '' 
`` Hout awa ' wi ' your joking , Earnscliff , '' replied his companion , -- `` ye are angry aneugh yoursell if ane touches you a bit , man , on the sooth side of the jest -- No that I was asking the question about Grace , for ye maun ken she 's no my cousin-germain out and out , but the daughter of my uncle 's wife by her first marriage , so she 's nae kith nor kin to me -- only a connexion like . 
He fired off his piece accordingly , and the number of lights were seen to traverse the house , and even to gleam before it . 
Hobbie Elliot pointed out one of these to Earnscliff , which seemed to glide from the house towards some of the out-houses -- `` That 's Grace hersell , '' said Hobbie . 
`` Ah , Hobbie , you are a lucky young fellow ! '' 
This observation was uttered with something like a sigh , which apparently did not escape the ear of his companion . 
They had now descended the broad loaning , which , winding round the foot of the steep bank , or heugh , brought them in front of the thatched , but comfortable , farm-house , which was the dwelling of Hobbie Elliot and his family . 
The doorway was thronged with joyful faces ; but the appearance of a stranger blunted many a gibe which had been prepared on Hobbie 's lack of success in the deer-stalking . 
Hobbie , in the meanwhile , bestowing some hearty and general abuse upon them all , -LRB- for Grace was not of the party , -RRB- snatched the candle from the hand of one of the rustic coquettes , as she stood playing pretty with it in her hand , and ushered his guest into the family parlour , or rather hall ; for the place having been a house of defence in former times , the sitting apartment was a vaulted and paved room , damp and dismal enough compared with the lodgings of the yeomanry of our days , but which , when well lighted up with a large sparkling fire of turf and bog-wood , seemed to Earnscliff a most comfortable exchange for the darkness and bleak blast of the hill . 
Kindly and repeatedly was he welcomed by the venerable old dame , the mistress of the family , who , dressed in her coif and pinners , her close and decent gown of homespun wool , but with a large gold necklace and earrings , looked , what she really was , the lady as well as the farmer 's wife , while , seated in her chair of wicker , by the corner of the great chimney , she directed the evening occupations of the young women , and of two or three stout serving wenches , who sate plying their distaffs behind the backs of their young mistresses . 
As soon as Earnscliff had been duly welcomed , and hasty orders issued for some addition to the evening meal , his grand-dame and sisters opened their battery upon Hobbie Elliot for his lack of success against the deer . 
`` Jenny needna have kept up her kitchen-fire for a ' that Hobbie has brought hame , '' said one sister . 
if it was weel blawn , wad dress a ' our Hobbie 's venison . '' 
`` Ay , or the low of the candle , if the wind wad let it bide steady , '' said a third ; `` if I were him , I would bring hame a black craw , rather than come back three times without a buck 's horn to blaw on . '' 
Hobbie turned from the one to the other , regarding them alternately with a frown on his brow , the augury of which was confuted by the good-humoured laugh on the lower part of his countenance . 
He then strove to propitiate them , by mentioning the intended present of his companion . 
`` I wish they had left some for us then , grannie , '' retorted Hobbie ; `` they 've cleared the country o ' them , thae auld friends o ' yours , I 'm thinking . '' 
`` Ye see other folk can find game , though you can not , Hobbie , '' said the eldest sister , glancing a look at young Earnscliff . 
`` Weel , weel , woman , hasna every dog his day , begging Earnscliff 's pardon for the auld saying -- Mayna I hae his luck , and he mine , another time ? 
And he proceeded , without very much exaggeration , to detail , in his own way , the meeting they had with the mysterious being at Mucklestane-Moor , concluding , he could not conjecture what on earth it could be , unless it was either the Enemy himsell , or some of the auld Peghts that held the country lang syne . '' 
Earnscliff now interposed , and expressed his firm conviction that the person they had seen was some poor maniac , and had no commission from the invisible world to announce either war or evil . 
But his opinion found a very cold audience , and all joined to deprecate his purpose of returning to the spot the next day . 
Miss Grace had by this time made her appearance , and Hobbie , not without a conscious glance at Earnscliff , placed himself by her side . 
Hobbie , who apparently took leave of him at the door of his habitation , slunk out , however , and joined him at the top of the hill . 
`` By no means , Hobbie , '' said Earnscliff ; `` she well merits all your attention . '' 
`` If I thought as you do , Hobbie , '' said the young gentleman , `` I would not perhaps enquire farther into this business ; but as I am of opinion that preternatural visitations are either ceased altogether , or become very rare in our days , I am unwilling to leave a matter uninvestigated which may concern the life of a poor distracted being . '' 
`` Aweel , aweel , if ye really think that , '' answered Hobbie doubtfully -- `` And it 's for certain the very fairies -- I mean the very good neighbours themsells -LRB- for they say folk suldna ca ' them fairies -RRB- that used to be seen on every green knowe at e ` en , are no half sae often visible in our days . 
`` As I shall answer , '' says Hobbie , `` yonder 's the creature creeping about yet ! 
Hobbie 's suspicions began to revive , on seeing the preternatural strength he exerted . 
-- Honest man , '' -LRB- raising his voice , -RRB- `` ye make good firm wark there ? '' 
The being whom he addressed raised his eyes with a ghastly stare , and , getting up from his stooping posture , stood before them in all his native and hideous deformity . 
His head was of uncommon size , covered with a fell of shaggy hair , partly grizzled with age ; his eyebrows , shaggy and prominent , overhung a pair of small , dark , piercing eyes , set far back in their sockets , that rolled with a portentous wildness , indicative of a partial insanity . 
The rest of his features were of the coarse , rough-hewn stamp , with which a painter would equip a giant in romance ; to which was added the wild , irregular , and peculiar expression , so often seen in the countenances of those whose persons are deformed . 
Elliot and he accordingly placed the stone , by their joint efforts , upon the rising wall . 
`` And now , friend , '' said Elliot , as the unreasonable Dwarf indicated another stone larger than any they had moved , `` Earnscliff may do as he likes ; but be ye man or be ye waur , deil be in my fingers if I break my back wi ' heaving thae stanes ony langer like a barrow-man , without getting sae muckle as thanks for my pains . '' 
`` Deil a shadow has he , '' replied Hobbie Elliot , who was a strenuous defender of the general opinion ; `` he 's ower far in wi ' the Auld Ane to have a shadow . 
Besides , '' he argued more logically , `` wha ever heard of a shadow that cam between a body and the sun ? 
But , to balance the evil , there is my friend Hobbie , honest Hobbie of the Heugh-foot , your skill relieved him last winter in a fever that might have cost him his life . '' 
Have you marked the young cub of a wild cat that has been domesticated , how sportive , how playful , how gentle , -- but trust him with your game , your lambs , your poultry , his inbred ferocity breaks forth ; he gripes , tears , ravages , and devours . '' 
`` Such is the animal 's instinct , '' answered Earnscliff ; `` but what has that to do with Hobbie ? '' 
`` It is his emblem -- it is his picture , '' retorted the Recluse . 
`` He is at present tame , quiet , and domesticated , for lack of opportunity to exercise his inborn propensities ; but let the trumpet of war sound -- let the young blood-hound snuff blood , he will be as ferocious as the wildest of his Border ancestors that ever fired a helpless peasant 's abode . 
Can you deny , that even at present he often urges you to take bloody revenge for an injury received when you were a boy ? '' 
`` Then it must be Hobbie of the Heugh-foot , '' said Elshie . 
I 'll stand Hobbie 's feud , and a ' his clan 's . 
But it 's not so much for that , as to gie him a lesson not to let his tongue gallop ower freely about his betters . 
I trow he will hae lost the best pen-feather o ' his wing before to-morrow morning . 
-- And yet this Elliot -- this Hobbie , so young and gallant , so frank , so -- I will think of it no longer . 
I can not aid him if I would , and I am resolved -- firmly resolved , that I would not aid him , if a wish were the pledge of his safety ! '' 
As he was plunged in these gloomy soliloquies , he heard the tramp of a horse on the other side of his enclosure , and a strong clear bass voice singing with the liveliness inspired by a light heart , Canny Hobbie Elliot , canny Hobbie now , Canny Hobbie Elliot , I ` se gang alang wi ' you . 
The dog in question instantly pulled down and throttled one of the hermit 's she-goats , while Hobbie Elliot , who came up , and jumped from his horse for the purpose , was unable to extricate the harmless animal from the fangs of his attendant until it was expiring . 
The Dwarf eyed , for a few moments , the convulsive starts of his dying favourite , until the poor goat stretched out her limbs with the twitches and shivering fit of the last agony . 
He then started into an access of frenzy , and unsheathing a long sharp knife , or dagger , which he wore under his coat , he was about to launch it at the dog , when Hobbie , perceiving his purpose , interposed , and caught hold of his hand , exclaiming , `` Let a be the hound , man -- let a be the hound ! 
The Dwarf turned his rage on the young farmer ; and , by a sudden effort , far more powerful than Hobbie expected from such a person , freed his wrist from his grasp , and offered the dagger at his heart . 
All this was done in the twinkling of an eye , and the incensed Recluse might have completed his vengeance by plunging the weapon in Elliot 's bosom , had he not been checked by an internal impulse which made him hurl the knife to a distance . 
`` No , '' he exclaimed , as he thus voluntarily deprived himself of the means of gratifying his rage ; `` not again -- not again ! '' 
Hobbie retreated a step or two in great surprise , discomposure , and disdain , at having been placed in such danger by an object apparently so contemptible . 
were the first words that escaped him , which he followed up with an apology for the accident that had given rise to their disagreement . 
`` Dear Elshie , '' answered Hobbie , `` I 'm wae ye suld hae cause to say sae ; I 'm sure it wasna wi ' my will . 
`` Never stir , '' said Hobbie , `` if I wadna take you wi ' me , man , if ye wad but say it wad divert ye to be at the bridal on Monday . 
retorted Hobbie , `` nae siccan commons neither ; the Elliots hae been lang kend a gentle race . '' 
`` I wish ye wadna speak that gate , '' said Hobbie . 
`` Aweel , aweel , '' said Hobbie , mounting his horse , `` it serves naething to strive wi ' cripples , -- they are aye cankered ; but I 'll just tell ye ae thing , neighbour , that if things be otherwise than weel wi ' Grace Armstrong , I ` se gie you a scouther if there be a tar-barrel in the five parishes . '' 
So saying , he rode off ; and Elshie , after looking at him with a scornful and indignant laugh , took spade and mattock , and occupied himself in digging a grave for his deceased favourite . 
disturbed him in this melancholy occupation . 
He looked up , and the Red Reiver of Westburnflat was before him . 
Like Banquo 's murderer , there was blood on his face , as well as upon the rowels of his spurs and the sides of his over-ridden horse . 
Hobbie will hae a merry morning when he comes hame , and misses baith bride and gear . '' 
`` Ay ; and do you not pity him ? '' 
`` Wad he pity me were I gaeing up the Castle hill at Jeddart?The place of execution at that ancient burgh , where many of Westburnflat 's profession have made their final exit . 
Hobbie Elliot had , in the meanwhile , pursued his journey rapidly , harassed by those oppressive and indistinct fears that all was not right , which men usually term a presentiment of misfortune . 
Ere he reached the top of the bank from which he could look down on his own habitation , he was met by his nurse , a person then of great consequence in all families in Scotland , whether of the higher or middling classes . 
So soon as Hobbie recognised the figure of Annaple , in her red cloak and black hood , he could not help exclaiming to himself , `` What ill luck can hae brought the auld nurse sae far frae hame , her that never stirs a gun-shot frae the door-stane for ordinar ? 
The turf-stack , the barn-yard , the offices stocked with cattle , all the wealth of an upland cultivator of the period , of which poor Elliot possessed no common share , had been laid waste or carried off in a single night . 
He stood a moment motionless , and then exclaimed , `` I am ruined -- ruined to the ground ! 
Manfully strode Hobbie down the hill , resolved to suppress his own despair , and administer consolation which he did not feel . 
The neighbouring inhabitants of the dell , particularly those of his own name , had already assembled . 
`` I am no saying ony thing against revenging Hobbie 's wrang , puir chield ; but we maun take the law wi ' us in thae days , Simon , '' answered the more prudent elder . 
Hobbie 's stalls and stakes shall be fou again or night ; and if we canna big up the auld house sae soon , we ` se lay an English ane as low as Heugh-foot is -- and that 's fair play , a ' the warld ower . '' 
This animating proposal was received with great applause by the younger part of the assemblage , when a whisper ran among them , `` There 's Hobbie himsell , puir fallow ! 
we 'll be guided by him . '' 
-- Where are '' -- He stopped , as if afraid even to name the objects of his enquiry ; and with a similar feeling , his kinsmen , without reply , pointed to the hut , into which Hobbie precipitated himself with the desperate air of one who is resolved to know the worst at once . 
A general and powerful expression of sympathy accompanied him . 
`` Ah , puir fallow -- puir Hobbie ! '' 
`` He 'll learn the warst o ' t now ! '' 
The meeting between Hobbie and his family was in the highest degree affecting . 
His sisters threw themselves upon him , and almost stifled him with their caresses , as if to prevent his looking round to distinguish the absence of one yet more beloved . 
exclaimed Hobbie ; `` let 's on and away , and take the chase after him . '' 
He was rushing out , when , looking back , he observed his grandmother make a mute attitude of affliction . 
He returned hastily , threw himself into her arms , and said , `` Yes , mother , I can say , His will be done , since it will comfort you . '' 
exclaimed Elliot , and rushed out of the house . 
exclaimed Hobbie to his kinsmen . 
Many a ready foot was in the stirrup ; and , while Elliot hastily collected arms and accoutrements , no easy matter in such a confusion , the glen resounded with the approbation of his younger friends . 
exclaimed Simon of Hackburn , `` that 's the gate to take it , Hobbie . 
-- Hae ye ony speerings , Hobbie ? 
`` We 'll follow the track o ' Earnscliff 's horses ower the waste , '' cried one Elliot . 
Hobbie instantly whistled on his hounds , which were roving about the ruins of their old habitation , and filling the air with their doleful howls . 
`` Now , Killbuck , '' said Hobbie , `` try thy skill this day '' -- and then , as if a light had suddenly broke on him , -- `` that ill-faur 'd goblin spak something o ' this ! 
He then hastily gave directions to his comrades : `` Four o ' ye , wi ' Simon , haud right forward to Græmes ' - gap . 
`` He shall tell me , '' said Hobbie , who was busy putting his arms in order , `` what he kens o ' this night 's job , or I shall right weel ken wherefore he does not . '' 
`` Ay , but speak him fair , my bonny man -- speak him fair , Hobbie ; the like o ' him will no bear thrawing . 
`` Let me alane to guide him , '' answered Hobbie ; `` there 's that in my breast this day , that would ower-maister a ' the warlocks on earth , and a ' the devils in hell . '' 
And being now fully equipped , he threw himself on his horse , and spurred him at a rapid pace against the steep ascent . 
Elliot speedily surmounted the hill , rode down the other side at the same rate , crossed a wood , and traversed a long glen , ere he at length regained Mucklestane-Moor . 
As he was obliged , in the course of his journey , to relax his speed in consideration of the labour which his horse might still have to undergo , he had time to consider maturely in what manner he should address the Dwarf , in order to extract from him the knowledge which he supposed him to be in possession of concerning the authors of his misfortunes . 
Hobbie , though blunt , plain of speech , and hot of disposition , like most of his countrymen , was by no means deficient in the shrewdness which is also their characteristic . 
He reflected , that from what he had observed on the memorable night when the Dwarf was first seen , and from the conduct of that mysterious being ever since , he was likely to be rendered even more obstinate in his sullenness by threats and violence . 
`` I 'll speak him fair , '' he said , `` as auld Dickon advised me . 
Though folk say he has a league wi ' Satan , he canna be sic an incarnate devil as no to take some pity in a case like mine ; and folk threep he 'll whiles do good , charitable sort o ' things . 
The old man was not upon his seat of audience , nor could Hobbie perceive him in his garden , or enclosures . 
`` He 's gotten into his very keep , '' said Hobbie , `` maybe to be out o ' the gate ; but I ` se pu ' it doun about his lugs , if I canna win at him otherwise . '' 
Having thus communed with himself , he raised his voice , and invoked Elshie in a tone as supplicating as his conflicting feelings would permit . 
said Hobbie impatiently ; `` what is the better , Elshie ? 
`` That ye did e ` en , '' replied Hobbie , `` and that gars me come to you for advice now ; they that foresaw the trouble maun ken the cure . '' 
`` Ye may have lost all this , '' answered Hobbie , in the bitterness of emotion ; `` land and friends , goods and gear ; ye may hae lost them a ' , -- but ye ne'er can hae sae sair a heart as mine , for ye ne'er lost nae Grace Armstrong . 
This he said in the tone of deepest emotion -- and there followed a long pause , for the mention of his bride 's name had overcome the more angry and irritable feelings of poor Hobbie . 
Ere he had again addressed the Solitary , the bony hand and long fingers of the latter , holding a large leathern bag , was thrust forth at the small window , and as it unclutched the burden , and let it drop with a clang upon the ground , his harsh voice again addressed Elliot . 
said Elliot , having glanced at the contents ; and then again addressing the Hermit , `` Muckle obliged for your good-will ; and I wad blithely gie you a bond for some o ' the siller , or a wadset ower the lands o ' Wide-open . 
`` But I tell you , '' said Elliot , `` it wasna about the gear that I was consulting you , -- it was a braw barn-yard , doubtless , and thirty head of finer cattle there werena on this side of the Cat-rail ; but let the gear gang , -- if ye could but gie me speerings o ' puir Grace , I would be content to be your slave for life , in ony thing that didna touch my salvation . 
`` Well , then , '' answered the Dwarf , as if worn out by his importunity , `` since thou hast not enough of woes of thine own , but must needs seek to burden thyself with those of a partner , seek her whom thou hast lost in the West . '' 
`` It is the last , '' said the Dwarf , `` which I design to utter ; '' and he drew the shutters of his window , leaving Hobbie to make the most of the hint he had given . 
-- thought Elliot ; the country is pretty quiet down that way , unless it were Jock o ' the Todholes ; and he 's ower auld now for the like o ' thae jobs . 
And off rode Hobbie Elliot towards the place of rendezvous which he had named to his friends . 
The young gentleman greeted Hobbie with the most sincere sympathy , and informed him of the news he had received . 
`` Then , may I never stir frae the bit , '' said Elliot , `` if auld Ellieslaw is not at the bottom o ' the haill villainy ! 
And their indignation was awakened against him upon this occasion , not so much on account of the general nature of the transaction , which was just such as was to be expected from this marauder , as that the violence had been perpetrated upon a neighbour against whom he had no cause of quarrel , -- against a friend of their own , -- above all , against one of the name of Elliot , to which clan most of them belonged . 
It was not , therefore , wonderful , that there should be several in the band pretty well acquainted with the locality of his habitation , and capable of giving such directions and guidance as soon placed the whole party on the open space of firm ground in front of the Tower of Westburnflat . 
Hobbie was almost out of his senses with joy and eagerness . 
`` It was Grace 's hand and arm , '' he said ; `` I can swear to it amang a thousand . 
said Hobbie Elliot . 
`` And a young woman , that 's been cruelly made prisoner , that 's worth mair than a ' the gear , twice told , '' said Hobbie . 
menaced the incensed Hobbie . 
Hobbie grinded and gnashed his teeth , as , walking round the fastness , he could devise no means of making a forcible entry . 
At length he suddenly exclaimed , `` And what for no do as our fathers did lang syne ? 
Fire was speedily obtained from one of their guns , and Hobbie was already advancing to the pile with a kindled brand , when the surly face of the robber , and the muzzle of a musquetoon , were partially shown at a shothole which flanked the entrance . 
`` We 'll sune see that , '' said Hobbie , advancing fearlessly with the torch . 
The marauder snapped his piece at him , which , fortunately for our honest friend , did not go off ; while Earnscliff , firing at the same moment at the narrow aperture and slight mark afforded by the robber 's face , grazed the side of his head with a bullet . 
`` And Hobbie 's gear ? '' 
`` D'ye think you 're to be free to plunder the faulds and byres of a gentle Elliot , as if they were an auld wife 's hen 's - cavey ? '' 
But I 'll see what o ' them can be gotten back , and I 'll take this day twa days to meet Hobbie at the Castleton wi ' twa friends on ilka side , and see to make an agreement about a ' the wrang he can wyte me wi ' . '' 
`` Ay , ay , '' said Elliot , `` that will do weel eneugh . '' 
-- And then aside to his kinsman , `` Murrain on the gear ! 
O , friend , thought Hobbie to himself , as he drew back , an I had you but on Turner 's - holm , There is a level meadow , on the very margin of the two kingdoms , called Turner 's - holm , just where the brook called Crissop joins the Liddel . 
Hobbie advanced eagerly , to meet his betrothed bride . 
Suddenly Hobbie slackened his pace in the deepest mortification , while that of Earnscliff was hastened by impatient surprise . 
exclaimed Hobbie , in the extremity of wrath and indignation . 
`` You false villain , you shall account for her , or die on the spot , '' said Elliot , presenting his gun . 
But his companions , who now came up , instantly disarmed him of his weapon , exclaiming , all at once , `` Hand and glove ! 
Haud a care , Hobbie ; we maun keep our faith wi ' Westburnflat , were he the greatest rogue ever rode . '' 
Thus protected , the outlaw recovered his audacity , which had been somewhat daunted by the menacing gesture of Elliot . 
`` I have kept my word , sirs , '' he said , `` and I look to have nae wrang amang ye . 
If this is no the prisoner ye sought , '' he said , addressing Earnscliff , `` ye 'll render her back to me again . 
interrupted Hobbie , shaking himself loose from the friends who had been preaching to him the sanctity of the safe conduct , upon the faith of which the freebooter had ventured from his tower , -- `` Where 's Grace ? '' 
and he rushed on the marauder , sword in hand . 
Westburnflat , thus pressed , after calling out , `` Godsake , Hobbie , hear me a gliff ! '' 
His mother stood ready to open and shut the grate ; but Hobbie struck at the freebooter as he entered with so much force , that the sword made a considerable cleft in the lintel of the vaulted door , which is still shown as a memorial of the superior strength of those who lived in the days of yore . 
Ere Hobbie could repeat the blow , the door was shut and secured , and he was compelled to retreat to his companions , who were now preparing to break up the siege of Westburnflat . 
They insisted upon his accompanying them in their return . 
Bide till the meeting at Castleton , as ye hae greed ; and if he disna make ye amends , then we 'll hae it out o ' his heart 's blood . 
Hobbie was not of the number . 
Almost heart-broken by the events of the day , and his final disappointment , he returned moodily home to take such measures as he could for the sustenance and protection of his family , and to arrange with his neighbours the farther steps which should be adopted for the recovery of Grace Armstrong . 
Incensed at what he deemed the coldness of his friends , in a cause which interested him so nearly , Hobbie had shaken himself free of their company , and was now on his solitary road homeward . 
said he , as he spurred impatiently his over-fatigued and stumbling horse ; `` thou art like a ' the rest o ' them . 
he continued , recollecting himself , `` there will neither coal nor candle-light shine in the Heughfoot ony mair ! 
-- In this disconsolate mood he turned his horse 's bridle towards the cottage in which his family had found refuge . 
As he approached the door , he heard whispering and tittering amongst his sisters . 
`` The deevil 's in the women , '' said poor Hobbie ; `` they would nicker , and laugh , and giggle , if their best friend was lying a corp -- and yet I am glad they can keep up their hearts sae weel , poor silly things ; but the dirdum fa 's on me , to be sure , and no on them . '' 
While he thus meditated , he was engaged in fastening up his horse in a shed . 
`` Thou maun do without horse-sheet and surcingle now , lad , '' he said , addressing the animal ; `` you and me hae had a downcome alike ; we had better hae fa'en in the deepest pool o ' Tarras . '' 
He was interrupted by the youngest of his sisters , who came running out , and , speaking in a constrained voice , as if to stifle some emotion , called out to him , `` What are ye doing there , Hobbie , fiddling about the naig , and there 's ane frae Cumberland been waiting here for ye this hour and mair ? 
exclaimed Elliot ; and putting the bridle of his horse into the hand of his sister , he rushed into the cottage . 
he exclaimed , glancing eagerly around , and seeing only females ; `` Did he bring news of Grace ? '' 
said the old lady , with something of a good-humoured reproof , `` ye shouldna vex your billy Hobbie that way . 
Hobbie looked eagerly round . 
`` There 's four of us now , Hobbie , lad , '' said the youngest , who at this moment entered . 
In an instant Hobbie had in his arms Grace Armstrong , who , with one of his sisters ' plaids around her , had passed unnoticed at his first entrance . 
said Hobbie . 
`` It wasna my fault , '' said Grace , endeavouring to cover her face with her hands to hide at once her blushes , and escape the storm of hearty kisses with which her bridegroom punished her simple stratagem , -- `` It wasna my fault , Hobbie ; ye should kiss Jeanie and the rest o ' them , for they hae the wyte o ` t. '' `` And so I will , '' said Hobbie , and embraced and kissed his sisters and grandmother a hundred times , while the whole party half-laughed , half-cried , in the extremity of their joy . 
`` I am the happiest man , '' said Hobbie , throwing himself down on a seat , almost exhausted , -- `` I am the happiest man in the world ! '' 
`` It was -- it was your word , grannie ; and I do praise Him for his mercy , and for leaving me a good parent when my ain were gane , '' said honest Hobbie , taking her hand , `` that puts me in mind to think of Him , baith in happiness and distress . '' 
Hobbie 's first enquiries were concerning the adventures which Grace had undergone . 
`` I 'll break the accursed neck of him , '' said Hobbie , `` if there werena another Græme in the land but himsell ! '' 
`` This is a miserable place for ye a ' , '' said Hobbie , looking around him ; `` I can sleep weel eneugh mysell outby beside the naig , as I hae done mony a lang night on the hills ; but how ye are to put yoursells up , I canna see ! 
And that we should have been a ' frae hame , too , -- ane and a ' upon the hill -- Odd , an we had been at hame , Will Græme 's stamach shouldna hae wanted its morning ; but it 's biding him , is it na , Hobbie ? '' 
`` Our neighbours hae taen a day at the Castleton to gree wi ' him at the sight o ' men , '' said Hobbie , mournfully ; `` they behoved to have it a ' their ain gate , or there was nae help to be got at their hands . '' 
`` To gree wi ' him ! '' 
exclaimed both his brothers at once , `` after siccan an act of stouthrife as hasna been heard o ' in the country since the auld riding days ! '' 
`` But the stocking , Hobbie ? '' 
Hobbie cast a mournful glance on Grace Armstrong , who returned it with a downcast look and a gentle sigh . 
`` He wadna gie a bodle to save us frae famishing , '' said Hobbie ; `` and , if he did , the bread that I bought wi ' t would stick in my throat , when I thought it was part of the price of puir auld Scotland 's crown and independence . '' 
exclaimed Mrs Elliot , `` can we no send him something , Hobbie ? '' 
`` Ye forget , grannie , ye forget we want help oursells , '' said Hobbie , somewhat peevishly . 
`` He has ower little o ' his ain ; and siccan a name to keep up , it wad be a shame , '' said Hobbie , `` to burden him wi ' our distress . 
`` Then , Hobbie , we maun trust in Him that can raise up friends and fortune out o ' the bare moor , as they say . '' 
Hobbie sprung upon his feet . 
he exclaimed ; `` ye are right . 
said his grandmother in astonishment ; `` what Elshie do you mean ? '' 
`` What Elshie should I mean , but Canny Elshie , the Wight o ' Mucklestane , '' replied Hobbie . 
`` Troth , mother , '' answered Hobbie , `` ye may say what ye like , but I am in the mind that witches and warlocks havena half the power they had lang syne ; at least , sure am I , that ae ill-deviser , like auld Ellieslaw , or ae ill-doer , like that d -- d villain Westburnflat , is a greater plague and abomination in a country-side than a haill curnie o ' the warst witches that ever capered on a broomstick , or played cantrips on Fastern 's E'en . 
`` Hout , mother , '' said Hobbie , `` Elshie 's no that bad a chield ; he 's a grewsome spectacle for a crooked disciple , to be sure , and a rough talker , but his bark is waur than his bite ; sae , if I had anes something to eat , for I havena had a morsel ower my throat this day , I wad streek mysell down for twa or three hours aside the beast , and be on and awa ' to Mucklestane wi ' the first skreigh o ' morning . '' 
`` And what for no the night , Hobbie , '' said Harry , `` and I will ride wi ' ye ? '' 
`` My naig is tired , '' said Hobbie . 
`` The night 's very dark , '' said Hobbie , rising and looking through the casement of the cottage ; `` and , to speak truth , and shame the deil , though Elshie 's a real honest fallow , yet somegate I would rather take daylight wi ' me when I gang to visit him . '' 
This frank avowal put a stop to further argument ; and Hobbie , having thus compromised matters between the rashness of his brother 's counsel , and the timid cautions which he received from his grandmother , refreshed himself with such food as the cottage afforded ; and , after a cordial salutation all round , retired to the shed , and stretched himself beside his trusty palfrey . 
His brothers shared between them some trusses of clean straw , disposed in the stall usually occupied by old Annaple 's cow ; and the females arranged themselves for repose as well as the accommodations of the cottage would permit . 
With the first dawn of morning , Hobbie arose ; and , having rubbed down and saddled his horse , he set forth to Mucklestane-Moor . 
He avoided the company of either of his brothers , from an idea that the Dwarf was most propitious to those who visited him alone . 
The door opened , and Hobbie witnessed with his own eyes that phenomenon which he had frequently heard mentioned . 
All Hobbie 's superstitious terrors revived on witnessing this spectacle . 
That the Dwarf would open his dwelling to a mortal guest , was as improbable as that any one would choose voluntarily to be his nocturnal visitor ; and , under full conviction that he beheld a wizard holding intercourse with his familiar spirit , Hobbie pulled in at once his breath and his bridle , resolved not to incur the indignation of either by a hasty intrusion on their conference . 
They were probably aware of his approach , for he had not halted for a moment before the Dwarf returned to his cottage ; and the taller figure who had accompanied him , glided round the enclosure of the garden , and seemed to disappear from the eyes of the admiring Hobbie . 
said Elliot ; `` but my case is desperate , sae , if he were Beelzebub himsell , I ` se venture down the brae on him . '' 
Yet , notwithstanding his assumed courage , he slackened his pace , when , nearly upon the very spot where he had last seen the tall figure , he discerned , as if lurking among the long heather , a small black rough-looking object , like a terrier dog . 
`` He has nae dog that ever I heard of , '' said Hobbie , `` but mony a deil about his hand -- Lord forgie me for saying sic a word ! 
He therefore cautiously threw a stone at the object , which continued motionless . 
`` It 's nae living thing , after a ' , '' said Hobbie , approaching , `` but the very bag o ' siller he flung out o ' the window yesterday ! 
He then advanced and lifted the heavy fur pouch , which was quite full of gold . 
said Hobbie , whose heart fluttered between glee at the revival of his hopes and prospects in life , and suspicion of the purpose for which this assistance was afforded him -- `` Mercy on us ! 
He advanced accordingly to the cottage door , and having knocked repeatedly without receiving any answer , he at length elevated his voice and addressed the inmate of the hut . 
Ye see I hae been thinking it wad be a sair thing on twa young folk , like Grace and me , to put off our marriage for mony years till I was abroad and came back again wi ' some gear ; and they say folk maunna take booty in the wars as they did lang syne , and the queen 's pay is a sma ' matter ; there 's nae gathering gear on that -- and then my grandame 's auld -- and my sisters wad sit peengin ' at the ingle-side for want o ' me to ding them about -- and Earnscliff , or the neighbourhood , or maybe your ain sell , Elshie , might want some good turn that Hob Elliot could do ye -- and it 's a pity that the auld house o ' the Heugh-foot should be wrecked a ` thegither . 
Sae I was thinking -- but deil hae me , that I should say sae , '' continued he , checking himself , `` if I can bring mysell to ask a favour of ane that winna sae muckle as ware a word on me , to tell me if he hears me speaking till him . '' 
`` Weel , weel , '' replied Elliot , `` since ye are willing to hear me , I ` se make my tale short . 
Hobbie now relieved his benefactor of his presence , and rode blithely home to display his treasure , and consult upon the means of repairing the damage which his fortune had sustained through the aggression of the Red Reiver of Westburnflat . 
The course of our story must here revert a little , to detail the circumstances which had placed Miss Vere in the unpleasant situation from which she was unexpectedly , and indeed unintentionally liberated , by the appearance of Earnscliff and Elliot , with their friends and followers , before the Tower of Westburnflat . 
On the morning preceding the night in which Hobbie 's house was plundered and burnt , Miss Vere was requested by her father to accompany him in a walk through a distant part of the romantic grounds which lay round his castle of Ellieslaw . 
Have you not heard young Elliot of the Heugh-foot has had his house burnt , and his cattle driven away , because he refused to give up his arms to some honest men that think of starting for the king ? '' 
Then saluting Mareschal with courtesy , and the rest of the party with indifference , Earnscliff turned his horse and rode towards the Heugh-foot , to concert measures with Hobbie Elliot for farther researches after his bride , of whose restoration to her friends he was still ignorant . 
Sir Frederick himself stepped forward towards the Recluse , as if to lay hands on his person , when his progress was suddenly stopped by the glittering point of a partisan , which the sturdy hand of Hobbie Elliot presented against his bosom . 
`` What has brought you here , Elliot ? '' 
`` Troth , Mareschal -- Wells , '' answered Hobbie , `` I am just come here , wi ' twenty or thretty mair o ' us , in my ain name and the King 's -- or Queen 's , ca ' they her ? 
Binna rash -- binna rash , '' exclaimed Hobbie ; `` hear me a bit , hear me a bit . 
`` Hout , ay , '' said Elliot , `` just let byganes be byganes , and a ' friends again ; deil ane I bear malice at but Westburnflat , and I hae gien him baith a het skin and a cauld ane . 
Hobbie Elliot assumed the command of the castle for the night , and mounted a regular guard . 
It was Hobbie 's opinion , and may be that of most of our readers , that the Recluse of Mucklestane-Moor had but a kind of a gloaming , or twilight understanding ; and that he had neither very clear views as to what he himself wanted , nor was apt to pursue his ends by the clearest and most direct means : so that to seek the clew of his conduct , was likened , by Hobbie , to looking for a straight path through a common , over which are a hundred devious tracks , but not one distinct line of road . 
`` Odd , if ony thing has befa'en puir Elshie , '' said Hobbie Elliot , `` I wad rather I were harried ower again . '' 
He immediately rode to his dwelling , and the remaining she-goat came bleating to meet him , for her milking time was long past . 
The Solitary was nowhere to be seen ; his door , contrary to wont , was open , his fire extinguished , and the whole hut was left in the state which it exhibited on Isabella 's visit to him . 
Hobbie returned disconsolate to the castle . 
`` You have indeed , '' said Ratcliffe , producing a paper , which he put into Hobbie 's hands ; `` but read that , and you will perceive you have been no loser by having known him . '' 
It was a short deed of gift , by which `` Sir Edward Mauley , otherwise called Elshender the Recluse , endowed Halbert or Hobbie Elliot , and Grace Armstrong , in full property , with a considerable sum borrowed by Elliot from him . '' 
Hobbie 's joy was mingled with feelings which brought tears down his rough cheeks . 
`` It 's a queer thing , '' he said ; `` but I canna joy in the gear , unless I kend the puir body was happy that gave it me . '' 
`` And that wad be a light har ` st , '' said Hobbie ; `` but , wi ' my young leddie 's leave , I wad fain take down Elshie 's skeps o'bees , and set them in Grace 's bit flower yard at the Heugh-foot -- they shall ne'er be smeekit by ony o ' huz . 
Hobbie 's requests were readily granted , not without some wonder at the natural delicacy of feeling which pointed out to him this mode of displaying his gratitude . 
He was delighted when Ratcliffe informed him that his benefactor should not remain ignorant of the care which he took of his favourite . 
And Elliot and the family at Heugh-foot were , and continued to be , as fortunate and happy as his undaunted honesty , tenderness , and gallantry , so well merited . 
Willie of Westburnflat fled from the wrath of Hobbie Elliot , as his betters did from the pursuit of the law . 
His patriotism urged him to serve his country abroad , while his reluctance to leave his native soil pressed him rather to remain in the beloved island , and collect purses , watches , and rings on the highroads at home . 
Fortunately for him , the first impulse prevailed , and he joined the army under Marlborough ; obtained a commission , to which he was recommended by his services in collecting cattle for the commissariat ; returned home after many years , with some money , -LRB- how come by Heaven only knows , -RRB- -- demolished the peel-house at Westburnflat , and built , in its stead , a high narrow onstead , of three stories , with a chimney at each end -- drank brandy with the neighbours , whom , in his younger days , he had plundered -- died in his bed , and is recorded upon his tombstone at Kirkwhistle , -LRB- still extant , -RRB- as having played all the parts of a brave soldier , a discreet neighbour , and a sincere Christian . 
