And now , my dear mother , you will be surprised to learn that , the information of the Hebrew birth of Remeses -LRB- who has modestly dropped his first Egyptian name and adheres only to the second , which is Mosis , or Moses , as the Hebrews pronounce it -RRB- , was wickedly conveyed , with large bribes , to the magicians by Prince Mœris himself ; and that , upon this information and influence , they recalled from the past , which , like the future , is open to their magical art , the scenes of his life , and presented them before his vision . 
My brother , indignant and grieved , commanded him in a tone of authority to release him ; whereupon the Egyptian , cursing him by his gods , drew his knife from its sheath , and would in revenge have driven it into the heart of Izhur , when Moses caught his arm , and bade the young man fly . 
No sooner had the man thus spoken , than Moses , alarmed , perceived that the thing was known , and beholding the eyes of the Egyptian officers , and many of the Hebrews fastened upon him , he hastened to escape , for he beheld several men run to a high officer of the king , as if with the news , who at once drove rapidly away in his chariot , probably seeking Mœris , whom my brother knew to be not far off , superintending the placing of a statue of Horus upon a new terrace . 
Several Hebrews would have interposed to arrest Moses , when they heard who he was , for they look upon him more as an Egyptian than as one of their brethren . 
But he succeeded in retiring unharmed , and at once hastened to recross the Nile . 
When he had told us that what he had done to the Egyptian was known , and that he was recognized , and that Mœris would surely hear of it , his mother and I advised his immediate flight . 
`` My father , '' said Moses sorrowfully , `` I believed that my brethren would understand that God was with me , and would acknowledge me as sent to be their friend , instead of joining the Egyptians against me ! 
In the garb of an Egyptian , with a store of provisions , and taking gold in his purse , my brother embraced us all , and departed from the house , my mother weeping and saying -- `` A second time have I given up my son from the sword of Pharaoh , -- once to the waters and now to the desert sands ! '' 
It was well for Moses that he so thoroughly knew the character of King Mœris ; for when I returned , I learned from my mother , that a party of soldiers had been sent by Pharaoh to seize him . 
I had no sooner entered my house , than I saw my parents and sister preparing to fly from the king , fearing his vengeance when he should learn of the escape of Moses ! 
I have been among them , and , as you directed , have made many cautious inquiries after the learned Hebrew , Moses . 
Few of the old men remember Remeses , or Moses ; and none of them know any thing of his present abode , but seem sure he is long since dead . 
Upon hearing this name , dear father , I was struck by its similarity to that mentioned in the last letter of Aaron the Hebrew , as being that of the king of the country who had invited Moses , while prince , to visit him . 
`` Hast thou ever heard , in Midian , of a Hebrew called Moses ? '' 
`` Dost thou mean Moses the Egyptian ? '' 
`` He was educated an Egyptian , and was supposed to be the son of Pharaoh 's daughter , but was only adopted by her ; and being discovered to be a Hebrew , he left Egypt . '' 
`` This same Moses , once Prince Remeses , is now in Midian , where he hath been these forty years , '' answered the venerable chief-captain of the caravan . 
Surely , what man in Midian knoweth not Moses , the wise shepherd of Horeb ? '' 
He said that in seven days he should depart , and that it would take him eleven days to reach that part of the country where Moses dwelt . 
I shall be gone but one month , and shall be well repaid , not only by seeing Moses , whose noble countenance I can just recollect as a pleasant remembrance of my childhood , but by conferring upon him the unexpected pleasure of hearing from you by your son , his namesake . 
May the God of Abraham and of Moses have you always in His sacred keeping . 
With greetings of true and holy friendship , I am , O King Sesostris , thy servant and friend , I havebeen two weeks a guest of your venerable friend , the Hebrew , Moses . 
In that mountain the royal flocks are pastured , and there you will find your father 's friend , Moses the Hebrew , either with his shepherds and flocks , or in the retirement of his cave . '' 
My heart instinctively said , `` This is Moses ! '' 
He described to me pleasantly , under what circumstances he first met Moses , forty years ago . 
I was much interested in this brief account , my dear father , and believe that you will be , as it is a connecting link in the life of Moses , that has been hitherto wanting . 
The following week , I retired with Moses to the mountains , and here I pass my days , listening to his sublime teachings . 
my dear father , if God is to deliver them from Egypt by the hand of man , my heart tells me that Moses will be appointed their deliverer ; for who on earth has so at heart their misery , or supplicates Heaven so earnestly for aid in their behalf ? 
It is true he is an old man , seven years your senior , but his step is as firm as mine , his eye clear and brave , his natural force not abated , and his looks those of a man in his prime -- so healthful is this mountain life , and the simple routine of his days . 
He has written to you . 
I shall be the bearer of his letter , as well as of this , which I write in the door of his grotto , facing the valley , with the sea beyond . 
I had almost neglected to inform you , that your learned and eloquent friend Aaron , the brother of Moses , was lately in Midian , and was , for a time , an assistant priest of the sacrifices in the city ; but has now returned to Goshen , where he married many years ago . 
His sister Miriam is here with Moses , and is one of the most majestic women I ever beheld . 
The mother of Moses also dwells at Midian ; but I think their father died in Arabia Deserta ; for thither they fled from Egypt , before coming finally into Midian . 
I am not surprised that you love Moses . 
Remeses -- that is , Moses , the servant of the Most High God -- is here also . 
At the same moment I observed that Moses turned aside and approached the dazzling fire . 
In an instant he was lost to my gaze , and enveloped in its flame . 
I hastened down the mountain-path , surprised and alarmed at what I had seen ; and , as the way was winding , it was some minutes before I came to the valley , where I expected to fine the venerable sage consumed by the flames , that appeared to have surrounded him . 
Moses was standing with his face covered by his shepherd 's mantle , for he was afraid to look upon God ; while my heart sunk within me , and I became as a dead man . 
When I returned to consciousness , I heard , without raising my face again , Moses talking with the mighty Angel in the flame , which I perceived rested upon the thorn-bush like dazzling sunbeams concentrated thereon , but without consuming or changing a leaf . 
Had the mighty God of the Hebrews come down from heaven at last to deliver His people , fulfil His promise to Abram , and also make Moses the servant of His power ? 
Then Moses spake , in accents of the profoundest humility and fear , and said -- `` Who am I that I should go unto Pharaoh , and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt ? '' 
Then Moses answered the Angel of the flame , with that meekness and humbleness of heart which characterizes him -- `` Behold , when I come unto the children of Israel , and shall say unto them , ` The God of your fathers hath sent me unto you ; ' and they shall say unto me , ` What is His name ? ' 
And I heard the Voice answer -- with majesty inconceivable , so that my spirit failed before it -- and say unto Moses -- `` I am that I am.Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel , ` I AM hath sent me unto you ! '' ' 
Then after a brief silence , during which Moses fell upon his face and worshipped , the Voice from the midst of the fire said : `` Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel , ` The Lord God of your fathers , the God of Abraham , the God of Isaac , and the God of Jacob , hath sent me unto you . 
When the Voice had ceased , I heard Moses answer , and say with modest diffidence : `` But , behold , the elders and people of my brethren , the Hebrews , will not believe me nor hearken to my voice ; for they will say , ` The Lord hath not appeared unto thee . '' ' 
How impiously vain some sages and seers would have been , at such an infinite honor as the appearance of God to them , to talk with them , face to face , as He did now to Moses , -- veiling the ineffable splendor of His glory under the form of an angel enveloped in a mantle of dazzling sunbeams , -- His presence a flame of fire ! 
As Moses obeyed , I heard first the rod strike the ground , then a sharp hissing , as of a serpent , and lastly , a cry of surprise from Moses ; when , raising my face from the earth , upon which I had remained prostrate , fearing to look upon the glory before me , I perceived , with horror , a serpent rearing its head angrily into the air , and Moses flying from before it . 
Then the Voice from the ineffable light said to him , `` Put forth thy hand and take it by the tail . '' 
Moses , with hesitating obedience , obeyed , put forth his hand and caught it , when , lo ! 
it became a rod again in his hand . 
I now heard the Voice command Moses to thrust his hand into his bosom ; and he put his hand into his bosom : and when he took it out , behold , it was as leprous as snow . 
Then Moses looked troubled in spirit , and said unto the Lord -- `` O my Lord , I am not eloquent , neither heretofore , nor since Thou hast spoken unto thy servant ; but I am slow of speech and of a slow tongue . '' 
Notwithstanding all this , the heart of Moses failed him . 
He trembled at being an ambassador of God to his people , and said , with great fear and dread visible in his countenance -- `` Send , I pray Thee ; but not by me , but by the hand of him whom Thou wilt send . '' 
Then the anger of the Angel of the Lord seemed to be kindled against Moses , for the flames were agitated and spread abroad , and shot forth fiery tongues , and I looked to see him consumed . 
Then Moses rose from the ground , and bowed his head low in submission and obedience to the voice of the Lord . 
Then Moses , lifting up his eyes to heaven , said : `` O Lord God , who is like unto Thee among the gods ? 
When he beheld Moses , whose person yet seemed bright with the lingering glory of the divine Presence , he ran to him , and kissing him , said -- `` Thus did I behold thee in my vision , brother ! '' 
demanded Moses , regarding him with affectionate earnestness , `` that thou art come hither from Egypt so soon ? '' 
It said to me , ` Go into the wilderness to meet Moses . ' 
Moses then told Aaron all the words which God had spoken unto him , and how the Lord had sent him to deliver Israel , and had given him courage and power to obey , removing his fears and confirming his faith . 
As he spoke , he cast the rod far from him upon the ground , which it no sooner struck than it became a serpent , and ran swiftly towards Moses , who reached forth , and grasping it by the head without fear , lo ! 
The other sign also Moses showed to his brother , who then answered and said -- `` Thou shalt deliver Israel , and I will be thy servant , and bear thy rod before thee ! '' 
I had already , by the invitation of Moses , drawn near to these holy and great men , and walked with them , feeling , prince that I am , the deepest sense of inferiority and humility . 
I felt that I could be the servant of both , and that I was honored when taking up the sandals which Moses had put off his feet . 
I knelt before him to put them on ; but , in his modesty , this prince appointed of God would not suffer me . 
The next day Moses returned to Jethro , and said to him -- `` I pray thee let me go , and return unto my people which are in Egypt , and see how they fare , and if my brethren of the family of Levi be yet alive -- for the Lord hath shown me that all the men are dead which sought my life . '' 
Therefore , my dear father , three days afterwards , Moses , accompanied by his brother and myself , took leave of Jethro , and taking his wife and son , and holding the `` rod of God '' in his hand , left Midian . 
In sight of On , I parted from Moses , who went with his family to that part of the land of Goshen where his tribe dwells , which is not far from the treasure-city of Raamses . 
Moses seems to be a different man ! 
Aaron , who has , from time to time , revisited Egypt , and is well known to the elders of his people , will be a great support and aid to Moses , in his intercourse with the Hebrews . 
I shall also be present , dear father , by permission of the inspired Moses . 
I feared the God of Moses more than I sympathized with a contemporaneous prince , albeit Tyre was his ally . 
Thesecret assembly of the elders , called by Moses , met last night . 
It is where you had the conversation with Remeses -LRB- now Moses -RRB- , upon the condition of the Hebrews . 
Then , with thrilling power , the venerable speaker described the scene at the burning bush on Horeb , and , in conclusion , presented Moses , his brother , to the elders . 
He was received with a murmur of satisfaction ; but some doubted . 
Others remembered that he had been raised an Egyptian , and openly expressed their fear that it was a plan to betray them into a movement , that would give Pharaoh an excuse to destroy them all . 
Moses took the rod from the hand of his brother , and said with sternness -- `` Thou shalt see and believe ! '' 
The wretched old man fell to the ground , the serpent uncoiled from his form , and Moses taking it by the tail it became a rod again in his hand ! 
At this miracle , the whole assembly , save one man , became convinced that Moses had been sent by God to them . 
Upon this , Moses said -- `` Korah , I remember thee ! 
said Moses , in a tone of command He did so and it was leprous as snow , and the moon glared upon it , as upon the alabaster hand of a statue . 
He uttered a cry of horror . 
`` Be not unbelieving , '' said Moses . 
He did so , and took it out restored like the other . 
The man who had been entwined by the serpent also rose to his feet , and both acknowledged the power of God , and the authority of Moses . 
He now made known to them that God had sent him to demand their release from Pharaoh ; and that the king would at first refuse , but that after he had seen the power of God he would yield and let them go forth out of Egypt , to the good land promised to Abraham for his seed , forever . 
This extraordinary assembly then separated , each man to his place ; and Moses and Aaron went to the house of one Naashon , a Levite , whose sister had become Aaron 's wife many years before . 
Moses said he should go before Pharaoh the next day but one , when he held public audience in the throneroom , that great hall of Egyptian state , which , my dear father you once described , and where you were presented to Queen Amense , as she was seated upon the same throne . 
At the hour appointed , Moses the mighty Hebrew , and Aaron his brother , accompanied by seven of the chief men of their nation -- a venerable company with their flowing beards and snow-white locks -- entered the city from Raamses , and proceeded towards the palace . 
While he spoke , Aaron and Moses had reached the foot of the throne . 
My name is Aaron the Levite , and this my brother is Moses the Midianite ; and these others are the elders of Israel -- chiefs of the Hebrew people . '' 
The majesty of Moses , as he fixed his eyes upon them , as it were , paralyzed them . 
`` By the gods of Egypt , ye Moses and Aaron , '' cried the king , rising from his throne in great wrath , `` I defy the God of the Hebrews ! 
Moses answered , speaking for the first time , -- `` O King Thothmeses , the God of the Hebrews , whose servant I am , will yet make thee know His power , and that there is none else -- no other God but Him ! '' 
But with a gesture of his hand , Moses caused them to retire before him ; and the prince , returning with amazement , said to the king : `` These two men are gods , O king ! 
Let there be more work laid upon the men , that they may be so employed as not to have leisure to regard the vain words of this Moses and Aaron ! '' 
Thus , my dear father , the first result , of the interposition of Moses for his people , is to increase their oppression ! 
The unhappy men then perceived `` that they were in evil case , '' as one of them said to me in relating this interview ; and meeting Moses and Aaron in the fields not long afterwards , one of their number said , indignantly , and with grief -- `` The Lord look upon you , Moses and Aaron , and judge you , because by your interference with the king , thou hast put a sword into the hand of Pharaoh to slay us . '' 
Moses looked sorrowfully and troubled , and raising his eyes heavenward as he left them without a reply , for he wot not how to answer , they heard him cry unto his God , and say -- `` Lord , wherefore hast Thou so evil entreated this Thy people ? 
With these words , Moses sought to comfort the Hebrews , his brethren , going to them and proclaiming it to them in their ears ; but for an anguish of spirit , and the great pressure of their cruel bondage upon their minds , they did not hearken unto him . 
Moreover , many of them looked on him with eyes of hatred , as the author of this increase of their wretchedness . 
Since then , a month has passed , during which period I saw Moses often in Goshen , where he passed his time in encouraging those of his brethren who would give heed to him . 
On the seventh day after Moses and Aaron left him , Thothmeses went in state to the black marble temple of the sacred serpent , Uræus , to offer sacrifice and oblation to its great image of gold with jewelled eyes and hideous head . 
Does he fear Moses and his power , so as to desire to strengthen himself in the affections of the priesthood and people ? 
He invoked him , not against locusts , but against the God of Moses ! 
Thus the piety of Thothmeses has been quickened into unwonted activity by the dread of the God of Israel , as if he would secure his gods ' faithfulness should the God of Moses be too strong for him . 
He informed me , with looks of holy faith in his God , that Moses and he were , to-morrow , by God 's command , to appear again before Pharaoh , and demand the release of the Hebrews . 
When he had ended his instructions to them , Moses and Aaron were announced . 
I stood near him conversing with the prince ; for I knew that the two men of God purposed to seek the king 's presence . 
`` What are ye come for , Moses and Aaron ? '' 
`` We are come , O king , '' answered Moses with dignity , and looking far more kingly than he whom he addressed -- `` we are come in the name of the God of the Hebrews . 
Aaron held the rod of Moses in his hand , and casting it upon the marble pavement of the court , it became a serpent , slowly gliding along the floor and flashing fire from its eyes . 
The king upon his throne , at first , became alarmed , but seeing the monster inflate its throat and stretch lazily and innocuously along the lion-skin before his footstool , he smiled contemptuously and said -- `` Thy Arabian life has given thee great skill , O Moses . 
The magicians regarded it with surprise , and then looked fixedly at Moses and Aaron . 
`` Half an hour since , he was a rod in the hand of that Hebrew magician ! '' 
`` Show him thy art , and that we have gods whose servants can do as great miracles as this ! '' 
In a moment , the serpent of Moses uncoiled himself , and fiercely seizing , one after another , the two serpents of the magicians , swallowed them . 
Instead of acknowledging the God of Moses , the king became exceedingly enraged against his own magicians , and drove them from him , and ordered Moses and Aaron to depart , saying that they were only more skilful sorcerers than the others , and must show him greater signs than these ere he would let Israel go . 
That the rod of Moses should devour them , and return to a rod again , ought to have shown Pharaoh that it was a miracle , and not sorcery . 
Moses and Aaron stood before him by the river 's brink , -- the latter with the rod , which had been turned into a serpent , in his hand . 
`` The Lord God of the Hebrews , '' cried Moses in a loud voice , `` hath sent me unto thee , saying , ` Let My people go . ' 
Then Moses , turning calmly to Aaron , his brother , said , in my hearing , and in that of the king and all his people , `` Take this rod of God , and stretch out thine hand upon the waters of Egypt , that there may be blood throughout all the land of Egypt , both in vessels of wood and vessels of stone . '' 
The king sought his chariot , and fled from the face of Moses and Aaron , and all was wild dismay . 
The voice of Moses , empowered by his God , had indeed turned all the waters of Egypt into blood . 
As I rode on in the direction of the dwelling of Moses , I perceived that the plague of blood had not fallen upon the land where the Hebrews dwelt -- only upon the Egyptians . 
Then Pharaoh rewarded him with a chain of gold , and hardened his heart , and defied Moses and his God . 
Every hour I expected to behold a royal courier coming for Moses and Aaron , ordering them to appear before the king , to receive permission to lead the Hebrews out of Egypt . 
Then God appeared again unto Moses , and commanded him to go before Pharaoh with the same message as before . 
In great alarm , he was about to send for Moses , when Jambres , his chief sorcerer , stood before him , and said : `` O king , believe not that the God of this Hebrew is greater than the gods of Egypt . 
`` This the two magicians not being able to do , the next day , the frogs rendering every habitation uninhabitable , and the lords of Egypt appealing to Pharaoh , he sent for Moses and Aaron . 
Then Moses answered the king -- `` The Lord shall be entreated as thou desirest ; and thou , O king , shalt set the time , lest thou shouldst say I consulted a favorable aspect of the stars . 
`` Be it according to thy word , '' answered Moses ; `` and when thou seest the plague removed at the time appointed by thee , know it is God 's gracious act , and not our sorcery . 
The glory over Moses shall indeed be mine , as he hath said ! '' 
Ceasing to speak , he sent orders to the taskmasters to increase the burdens of the Hebrews , refusing to keep his promise to Moses and Aaron . 
Upon hearing this , Pharaoh drove both his magicians , and Moses and Aaron forth from his palace . 
The next day no sacrifice was offered , no temple open in all Egypt ; for on the priests were lice , and no one could perform an official act with any insect upon his person , being thereby made unclean . 
The Egyptians were enraged , both with the Hebrews and with their king -- but , shut up in his palace , he refused to consent to the demands of Moses . 
Three days afterwards , by the command of God , given at the well of Jacob , -- where , in a bright cloud like a pillar of fire , He descended to speak with Moses , and seemed to be now every day present in Egypt , in communion with his holy servant , -- the two brothers again sought the presence of the king , as he was entering his galley . 
Reiterating their usual demand , Moses continued -- `` The Lord hath said unto me , ` Stand before Pharaoh when he comes forth to the water , and say unto him , thus saith the Lord , ` Let my people go ; else , if thou wilt not let my people go , I will send swarms of flies upon thee and thy servants , and upon thy people , and the houses of the Egyptians shall be filled with them , and also the ground ; and I will sever in that day the land of Goshen , in which my people dwell , that no swarms of flies shall be there ; to the end that thou mayest know that I am the Lord in the midst of the earth . 
Pharaoh , in fear and anger , commanded his galley to leave the shore , heeding none of the words spoken by Moses . 
The next day , Pharaoh , unable to endure the plague , and finding his magicians could neither remove nor cause it , sent for Moses and Aaron , who immediately answered his summons . 
`` It is not meet , O king , '' answered Moses , `` that we should sacrifice to our God in the land of Egypt . 
While this discourse was passing between them , the fan-bearers of the king , with all their diligence , could not protect his face from the stings of the flies , which plagued him sorely ; while upon Aaron and Moses not one alighted . 
`` To-morrow , '' answered Moses , as he went out , `` the Lord , whom I will entreat for thee , shall remove this plague also . 
When , the next day , Pharaoh saw that the flies were removed , so that not one remained , he repented that he had given his promise , and resolved not to keep it with Moses . 
On the morrow , according to the word of Moses , a fatal pestilence seized upon the oxen , the bulls , and cows of Egypt , so that all the cattle in the land died . 
Behold the firmness and steadiness of purpose of Moses and Aaron , -- their courage and independence ! 
Upon the refusal of Pharaoh to let Jehovah have His people , that they might serve Him , God commanded Moses in a vision of the night , beside the fountain of Jacob , where He talked with him as in the burning bush , to take the ashes of a human sacrifice , to be immolated by Pharaoh the next day , and sprinkle it towards heaven upon the winds . 
The magicians and sorcerers , essaying to recover their credit with the king , attempted to do the same miracle ; but the boil broke forth upon them also so heavily , that they could not stand before Moses , and fled with pain and cries from his presence . 
That night , the Lord appeared unto Moses , and commanded him again to make his demand upon Pharaoh for His people . 
Then stood Moses and Aaron in the morning before the king , who was walking up and down in the corridor of his palace , ill at ease ; for all his public works were stopped by the sufferings of the Egyptians ; and his soldiers in the fourscore garrisons at On , and Memphis , and Bubastis , and Migdol , were unfit for military duty . 
`` Thus saith the Lord god of the Hebrews , '' answered Moses : ``` Let my people go , that they may serve me . '' ' 
Will no man rid me of this Moses and Aaron ? 
If thou regardest the life of thy servants , '' continued Moses , `` send , therefore , for all thou hast in the field . '' 
Scarcelyhad I reached the confines of Goshen , after the threatened judgment of God upon Pharaoh , when I heard , as it were in the air , a voice speaking , which I knew to be the voice of Moses ; and behind me I heard , instantly , loud thunders uttering their voices , and the earth shook beneath my chariot-wheels . 
To the right of me , at the same moment , I beheld Moses and Aaron standing , side by side , on the tower of the ruined fountain of Jacob , beneath which I was driving ; the former stretching forth his hands , and his rod therein , northward towards the city of Pharaoh , upon the obelisks of which the sun was then brilliantly shining , and was also reflected in splendor from the shield of gold upon the lofty tower of the temple of Osiris . 
Moses , his rod extended , and waving eastward , and northward , and westward , stood with a majestic and fearful aspect , his eyes raised to the heavens , which were already answering his voice by far-off thunderings . 
The vast pall which Jehovah had thus begun to draw over Egypt , no sooner had reached in the height of heaven over the borders of Goshen , casting its very shadow , and pouring its stones of hail , and sending its tongues of fire almost to the foot of the tower whereon Moses stood , than it ceased to move ! 
It became stationary in the air a mile high , and there hung beetling over the verge of Goshen like a crag , its edge working and agitated by the wildest commotion , and shooting its lightnings into the blue calm sky over Goshen , but restrained from advancing further by the power of Him who commandeth the heavens , who maketh the clouds His chariot , and who keepeth the lightnings in His quiver ! 
But , as the holy Moses taught me the other day , when I was humbly sitting at his feet , and hearing him discourse on these mighty events -LRB- for which he takes to himself no honor or merit , but only seems the more meek and lowly the more he is intrusted with power by God -RRB- , these displays of God 's majesty have a threefold end : first , to prove to the trembling and heart-crushed Israelites that He who is so terrible in power , doing wonders , is theirGod , as He was the God of Abraham , and has power to deliver them from Pharaoh ; as well as to teach them that if He can so punish the Egyptians , He can punish them also , with equal judgments , if they rebel and do wickedly : secondly , to punish Pharaoh for the oppression of His people , to afflict the land upon which they have groaned so many generations , and to show the Egyptians that He alone is God , that their gods are as stubble in His hand , `` that there is none like Him in all the earth ; '' and thus bring them to acknowledge Him , and to fear and worship Him : and , thirdly , that the word of His mighty deeds and wonders done in Egypt , going abroad to the ears of kings and princes , priests and lords , and people of all nations upon the earth , may give themthe knowledge of the true God , prove to them the impotency of their idols , and the supremacy of the God of the Hebrews , in heaven , and on earth , and over kings and people . 
`` Therefore , and for these ends , '' continued the divine Moses , `` that He might not leave Himself without a witness before men , and that He might declare His power to all His creatures , and His care for the oppressed , and His judgment upon kings who reign by cruelty , has He permitted , not only the bondage of our nation , but raised up such a man as Pharaoh , in whom to show forth His power and judgments , as He said to this king , ` And in very deed , for this cause have I raised thee up , to show in thee my power , and that my Name may be declared throughout all the earth . ' 
I did not understand this all at the first , '' said Moses ; `` but now I perceive the mind of God , and that He will do His will upon Pharaoh , and send yet more terrible punishments ; after which , humbled , and acknowledging God to be the Lord , he will let the people go ! '' 
When the judgment of God was at its height driven to the interior of his palace , -- from the tower upon which he had ascended `` to see what Moses and Aaron would do , '' as he said , -- he remained there three days , until , unable longer to bear the terrors of the scene , and the cries of his people , he sent for Moses and Aaron . 
Moving through the darkness , amid the fire upon the ground , and the hail and scalding rain , the man arrived , and told Moses and Aaron that the king had repented , and prayed them both to hasten to him , for he knew their God would defend them from injury on the way . 
`` As soon as I am gone out of the city I will spread abroad my hands unto the Lord , '' said Moses , `` and the thunder shall cease , and the hail , that thou mayest know how that the earth is the Lord 's . 
`` God is God , and entreat Him for me , '' answered the king , with a feeble gesture of impatience , doubtless humbled , and yet angry at being compelled to consent to lose six hundred thousand working-men from the mines and great works he is carrying on ; for though he fears the number of the Hebrews , he would rather retain them , keeping them under by increased oppression , than release them , and thereby be relieved from the apprehensions to which their unparalleled increase has given rise . 
When Moses had left the city of On behind him , he spread abroad his hands towards heaven unto his God ; and the thunders , and rain , and hail , and lightnings ceased . 
I turned away from his hall , refusing to go in , when Moses and Aaron passed me , and entered his presence . 
Then Moses answered the king , and said -- `` Thus saith the Lord God of the Hebrews , O Pharaoh : ` Let my people go ! 
Then Moses turned himself , and went out from Pharaoh . 
Then Pharaoh sent for Moses and Aaron , who had not yet reached the gate of the palace , and when they again stood before him , he said -- `` For the sake of these , and for Egypt 's sake , which thy sorcery has nearly destroyed , I yield to thy demand , not because I fear thy God . 
And Moses answered , and said firmly and fearlessly -- `` We will go with our young and with our old , with our sons and with our daughters ; with our flocks and with our herds will we go ; for we must hold a feast unto the Lord , and a sacrifice unto our God . '' 
He had long since given his magicians , Jambres and Jannes , to death , because they failed to keep pace with Moses and Aaron , and he evidently felt that this was the power of a God he could no longer compete with . 
He therefore sent for Moses and Aaron in haste . 
When he beheld the tall and majestic persons of Moses and Aaron enter , he rose from his couch , and cried -- `` I have sinned against the Lord your God , and against you . 
Now , therefore , O Moses and Aaron , forgive , I pray thee , my sin only this once , and entreat the Lord your God that He may take away from me this death only ! '' 
This confession seemed to be made with a certain frankness and sincerity , and a show of deep humility ; and Moses answered -- `` The Lord forgive thee , according to what is in thy heart . 
Then Moses went out from the presence of Pharaoh ; and when he had come into Goshen he ascended the tower of Jacob , and entreated the Lord for Pharaoh . 
Moses now sent messengers all through Egypt , calling upon the children of Israel to leave whatever they might be occupied in , and assemble themselves in the land of Goshen , with their wives , and children , and flocks , and all that they had . 
He had previously sent men into Upper Egypt and to the mines ; and , what is wonderful , the Hebrews in the mines were permitted to go forth from thence by their keepers , for the fear of Moses had reached their ears , and they gladly let them go ! 
The messengers whom Moses now sent everywhere , from Migdol to Syene , were Hebrews , and were nowhere molested as they went ; for a fear and reverence of them , as the people of the mighty God of Moses , had taken the place , in the minds of the great body of the Egyptians , of their former contempt : nay , every one was willing to do them a kindness . 
These qualities , God , who reads the character in the heart , saw in Pharaoh , and knew from the beginning what he would do , and how he would receive Moses , far better than we can know how our well-known friends would act under supposed circumstances . 
When left to himself , he forgot all that had gone before , and sent word to Moses and Aaron not to attempt to remove the Hebrews , as he would not let them go ; for Egypt was devastated , and nearly ruined in every part , and he must first have the labors of the Hebrews to restore the dikes and canals , and the terraces and gardens of the lakes , and then he would let them go . 
Then Moses and Aaron went at noonday and sought the Lord as aforetime , in the silence and loneliness of the well of Jacob , where they ever prayed unto Him , and where He spake unto them all the words He commanded them to speak before Pharaoh . 
And when they had ended their prayers and supplications before their great and terrible God , whose name they never spake but with the profoundest awe , the Lord said unto Moses : `` Stretch forth thine hand towards heaven , that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt , even darkness that may be felt . '' 
Obeying the command , Moses ascended the tower of Jacob , and stretched forth his hand towards heaven . 
During this darkness , the Hebrews , by the command of Moses , were collecting their flocks , and preparing to depart to sacrifice to their God : also , those who had not been circumcised now received the rite . 
This horrible night continued without change -- without moon or star to lend it a ray -- until the third day , when Pharaoh , unable longer to hold out in this unequal combat against God , sent two Hebrews , born in his house , to Moses ; for only the Hebrew could walk through this night of God as in the light . 
Without a word of impatience or doubt , Moses and Aaron rose up and disappeared in the awful veil of darkness , in response to the summons of the king . 
No sooner did Pharaoh behold them , than he cried out , in a voice of mingled complaint and condescension -- `` Go ye , Moses and Aaron , ye and yours , only let your flocks and herds stay in the land ; for hast thou not destroyed , '' he added with bitterness , `` whatsoever parteth the hoof in all the land of Egypt ? 
And Moses answered and said : `` Thou must suffer our flocks and herds to go with us , O king , that we may have sacrifices and burnt-offerings wherewith to sacrifice unto the Lord our God . 
When Pharaoh heard Moses speak thus firmly and boldly to him , abating nothing from his first demand , he seemed to lose his reason with rage . 
Casting his sceptre from his hand at the two brothers , he cried -- `` Get ye from me , ye destroyers and curse of Egypt ! 
Take heed to thyself , O Moses , and see my face no more , for in that day thou seest my face thou shalt die ! '' 
Then Moses answered , with calm and severe majesty : `` Thou hast spoken well , O Pharaoh . 
Thus speaking , Moses went out from Pharaoh in great anger . 
As he left the palace , the Egyptians prostrated themselves before him , and sought his favor , and some cried , `` He is a god ! 
`` But Moses sternly rebuked them , '' said Aaron , who related to me all that had passed , `` and felt deeply grieved and humbled at so great a sin , and called upon them to worship God in heaven , whose servant only he was , with no power in himself to do these wonders which they had witnessed . '' 
The day that Moses and Aaron departed from the presence of Pharaoh-Thothmeses , in truth to see his face no more , the Lord commanded them to call together the elders and people of the Hebrews , and instruct them to take a male lamb , or a kid without blemish , one to each household , keep it till the fourteenth day of the month , which day was just at hand , and kill it on the evening thereof , sprinkling , with a bunch of hyssop , the lintel and door-posts of their houses dipped in its blood , and roasting the flesh , eat it at night , leaving none until morning . 
Then Moses did as the Lord commanded . 
And when Moses had proclaimed these and other ordinances , the people bowed their heads and worshipped God , and said they would do all that the Lord had commanded Moses and Aaron to say unto them . 
The mighty miracles of Moses had , long since , silenced the murmurs and doubts of the elders , openly uttered at the beginning , when Pharaoh in revenge against Moses and Aaron , increased their burdens , and denied them straw for their bricks . 
All eyes were turned to Moses and Aaron , as they passed to and fro , and many fell on their knees , and worshipped them ; while others shouted , as the only way they could express their emotions . 
To them it was the command of Moses simply , and beyond that none knew the significance . 
Aaron and Moses were apart , in a room by themselves , engaged in low conversation , or in solemn prayer . 
At length Moses touched me , and said -- `` Fear not ! 
At length the sword was drawn back by the hand of the man in the pillar of cloud , and the shining column returned and stood over the house where Moses and Aaron remained ; a calm , lambent light , soft as moonbeams , being now emitted from it , instead of the angry splendor with which it shone before . 
One or more hours passed , and two horsemen , riding like the wind , entered Goshen and cast themselves upon the ground at the feet of Moses and Aaron . 
`` My lords , '' cried one of them , pale and trembling with fear and haste , after he had risen from his prostration , `` the king hath sent us to thee , and these are the words he hath commanded us to say : ` Rise up , Moses and Aaron , and get you forth from among my people , and from Egypt , both ye and the children of Israel , and go and serve the Lord as ye have said . 
Then came , while he was yet speaking , a large company of lords , and high officers , and great men of Egypt , whose sons the wrath of God had slain -LRB- for there was not a house in Egypt where there was not one dead , from the first-born of Pharaoh that sat upon the throne , to the first-born of the captive that was in the dungeon -RRB- , and they were urgent upon Moses and Aaron , and the Hebrew people , imploring them , with tears and supplications , to hasten from the land , with all they had , and to make all haste . 
Then Moses , as soon as it was day , sent word throughout all Israel to prepare to go forth out of Egypt that day . 
He directed the people to take all the jewels , and gold , and silver , and raiment , which the Egyptians were forcing upon them to bribe them to hasten ; `` for , '' he said , `` it is yours , as the Lord hath commanded you to spoil the Egyptians , for whom ye have labored without wages . 
As if moved by one spirit , Israel marshalled itself into companies of hundreds , and these into bands of thousands , and these into mighty divisions of tribes , so that by noon there were twelve separate armies of God , ready to march at the voice of Moses . 
Then , at the going down of the sun , Moses gave the signal for this mighty march . 
They came on in columns , a thousand men abreast , and marched past the tower of Jacob , on which Moses stood , with Aaron by his side , the miraculous rod in his hand . 
Night came on ere half the divisions had passed by where Moses stood ; and , as the sun went down , never more to rise upon Israel in Egypt , the Pillar of Cloud became a Pillar of Fire , and shed a glory over the innumerable armies of Israel equal to the splendor of day . 
Then Moses and Aaron descended , and I kneeled before them , and asked if I might be permitted to go out of Egypt with the Lord 's people , and continue to behold the power of God . 
Moses answered me with benignity , and said I should be with him as a son , that I might see the wonders of Jehovah , and make known in Phœnicia His glory and power . 
While he was speaking , a mixed multitude of Egyptians , Nubians , slaves , captives of Egypt , and of all those persons who hoped to be blessed and benefited with Israel , fell to the ground before Moses , and entreated him to suffer them to go up to the new land to which he was going . 
Moses granted them , without hesitation , their prayer . 
Then I learned that those among the Egyptians who had , in obedience to the command of Moses , sprinkled their own door-posts , escaped like the Israelites , for it was the sign of the blood of obedience alone , that the angel of the Lord regarded ; on the other hand , several Israelitish families saw their first-born perish , they having neglected to obey the command of Moses , from avarice or indifference , or doubt of the intention of God , or supposing that being Israelites would save their households . 
And here , my dear father , let me make known to you that I have learned from Aaron the significance of this sign ; for God having made known to him that `` he is to become the high-priest , as Moses is the leader , of his people , has revealed to him that the slaying of the lamb is a type of a divine and innocent Person , who shall come down from God , and one day be sacrificed . 
Shall we escape this world-broad Egypt , and under a divine leader like Moses , by the blood of the mysterious Lamb of God , be led to another world ? 
Also , my dear father , Moses , whose lips ever distil celestial wisdom , was graciously pleased , on the night before the death of the first-born , as he walked to and fro in the court of the house of Aminadab , to reveal to me the divine aim in sending such miracles as He did upon Egypt , instead of any others . 
`` The eighth miracle , '' continued Moses , while I gave ear to his words with wondering attention , `` was directed at the worship of Isis , as the moon , and controller of the seasons , and clouds , and weather . 
Having now revealed to you the mystery , veiled under the miracles of Moses , I will close my long letter , leaving you to reflect , my father , upon the wonders of God , and to contemplate His wisdom . 
When the last division had passed the tower , after midnight , Moses and Aaron went forward and travelled all night , along the column of march , addressing the leaders of tribes , divisions , thousands , and hundreds , as they went , giving them words of courage , and commanding them to keep in view the Pillar of Fire . 
When I reached , with Moses , the van of the mighty slowly-moving host , I perceived that a sort of sarcophagus on wheels was drawn by twelve oxen in front of all ; and that over this , the `` shekinah , '' as Aaron termed the presence of God in the cloud of light , was suspended . 
At the side of the sarcophagus Moses and Aaron walked , and thus the solemn march advanced towards the wilderness . 
Here Moses ordered the people to encamp , and bake their unleavened bread which they brought with them in their kneading-troughs from Egypt . 
Passing Pi-hahiroth , with its castle and garrison , the latter of which fled at our advance , as also the garrison of the tower of Migdol , which guarded the way to Egypt from the Arabian Sea , and so up the cliffs of the valley-sides , Moses encamped between Migdol and the sea , which spread far away eastward in front , with the towers and fortified city of Baal-zephon visible on the opposite side . 
When I surveyed the place , I marvelled to know how Moses would move forward the next day ; for the mountainous ridges of the rocky valley , along which we had come , continued close to the shore of the sea on the right hand , and on the left , and I could perceive , as I walked to the place , no room for a single man , much less an army , to go either south or north between the mountains and the water ; for the sea broke with its waves against its perpendicular sides . 
The calm majesty and repose of Moses awed me . 
Upon his expansive brow was stamped confidence in his God , who , if need were , could make a road across the sea for His people , for whose deliverance He had done such wonders . 
The divinely inspired Moses seemed to understand my thoughts , when I returned to the camp . 
`` My son , '' he said , `` this is done to try Pharaoh ; for , when he heareth that we are in the valley of Pi-hahiroth , before Migdol , he will say , ` They are entangled in the land -- the wilderness hath shut them in . ' 
The existence of their bondagebegan at the death of Joseph , who died sixty-five years , not seventy , as you supposed , before the birth of Moses . 
The next day , being the seventh , whereon a divine tradition ordains rest , but which in their bondage could not be regarded , Moses and Aaron commanded the whole host to repose . 
I have learned from an officer of Pharaoh , who , fearing God , escaped from the palace , and came and informed Moses of the king 's purposes , that when the news reached the king , who had been three days bitterly repenting his compliance with the demands of Moses , he sprang from the table at which he sat , and , with a great oath by his gods , cried -- `` They are entangled between Pi-hahiroth and the sea ! 
All this intelligence reached Moses ; but he remained immovable in his camp , the Pillar of Fire also standing in the air above the tent of Aaron , in which was the sarcophagus of Prince Joseph . 
Messenger after messenger , sometimes an Egyptian friendly to the Israelites , sometimes an Israelite who had been detained and did not leave Egypt with his brethren , came to Moses , and as they passed through the camp , gave up their news to the people . 
They were in no condition to do battle , there being among them all , one only who knew the use of arms , which one was Moses ; who , with God on his side , was an army in himself . 
The elders then hastened , and , pale with terror and anger , came before Moses , and cried to him -- `` Because there were no graves in Egypt , hast thou taken us away to die here in the wilderness ? 
Then Moses answered their tumult , and said , without displeasure visible in his godlike countenance -- `` Fear ye not ! 
Then Moses , with a troubled face , entered his tent , and his voice was heard by those near by , calling upon God . 
Then Moses came forth from the tent , whence the voice of the Lord had been heard by all , both near and afar off . 
Now , at the going down of the sun , on that day when the Egyptians encamped because of the cloud , Moses had stretched forth his hand over the sea by God 's command , and lo ! 
Then Moses , lifting up his voice , commanded the children of Israel to form into companies and columns of one hundred and eighty men abreast , and enter the sea by the way God had opened for them . 
Now came Moses , leading the van of the people in column . 
I also walked near him . 
The king leaped from his car , and , mounting a horse held by his armor-bearer , attempted to escape , when the Lord said unto Moses , who now stood upon the Arabian side of the sea -- `` Stretch out thine hand over the sea , that the waters may come again upon the Egyptians , upon their chariots , and upon their horsemen . '' 
Then Moses stretched forth his hand upon the sea , in the deep defile of which , cleaved by God for his own people , the Egyptian hosts , chariots , horse and foot , were struggling to retrace their course to the Egyptian shore , each man battling with his comrade for preference in advance . 
Now Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea , out of the path through which the last of the Israelites were coming forth , when the billows that had been cloven by the rod of God , and made to stand in two walls like adamant , began to swell and heave , and all at once both edges of this sea-wall fell over like two mighty cataracts plunging and meeting , roaring and rushing together each into the chasm wherein the whole host of Pharaoh -- his captains , chariots , and horsemen -- with their faces towards Egypt , were struggling to escape from the snare that God , in His just vengeance , had laid for them . 
Those who had murmured against Moses sought his presence , and prostrated themselves before him , acknowledging their fault , and asking him to entreat God to pardon their iniquity , declaring that henceforth they would receive the voice of Moses as the voice of God . 
When Moses and the children of Israel saw that their enemies were dead , they chanted a sublime hymn of praise and triumph to God upon the shore . 
From the Sea of Arabia , Moses led the armies of Israel , for three encampments , into the wilderness towards Horeb . 
Here was no water but that which was bitter ; and the people murmuring , Moses pacified them by a miracle . 
Indeed , the whole journey was a miracle , and attended by miracles ; for in this wilderness , Sinn , their provisions failed , and the people -LRB- who are a perverse and stiff-necked people , forgetful of favors past , and rebellious -- as is perhaps natural to those who have been so long in bondage , and find themselves now free -RRB- , murmured , and again blamed Moses for bringing them from their fare of flesh and bread in Egypt , to die of hunger in the wilderness . 
The camp thence moved forward and came into the vale of Horeb , where I had first beheld Moses standing by his flock . 
Here there was no water , and the people murmured in their thirst , and again blamed Moses for bringing them out of Egypt into that wilderness , not remembering the mighty deliverance at the Sea of Arabia , nor the manna , nor the quails . 
At the first obstacle or privation , they would ever cry out against Moses , who , one day , exclaimed to his God , in his perplexity -- `` What shall I do to this people ? 
Nor could I give you any idea of the aspect of the Mount of God , from which went up a smoke , as the smoke of a furnace , for seven days and nights , and how the voice of the trumpet waxed louder and louder , sounding long and with awful grandeur along the skies , calling Moses to come up into the mount to receive His laws , while the light of the glory of the Lord was like devouring fire . 
In obedience to the terrible voice , Moses left Israel in the plain and ascended the mount . 
Aaron refused to go back with them ; but at length they compelled him to consent , if in seven days Moses returned not . 
But Aaron answered that he would not hearken to them , and bade them wait for Moses . 
As for this Moses , we wot not has become of him . '' 
At length Moses reappeared , sent down from the mount by an indignant God , who beheld this extraordinary return to idolatry . 
Moses took the calf they had made , and made Aaron burn it in the fire , and he ground it to powder , and made the idolatrous children of Israel drink of the bitter and nauseous draught . 
Moses informs me that the Lord , in punishment of this sin of Israel , will cause them to wander many years in the wilderness ere He bring them to the land promised to their fathers , and will subject them to be harassed by enemies on all sides , some of whom have already attacked them , but were discomfited by the courage of a Hebrew youth , called Joshua , who promises to become a mighty warrior and leader in Israel , and whom Moses loves as an own son . 
It will be with profound regret that I shall bid adieu to Moses , to Aaron , to Miriam , and all the friends I have found among this wonderful people . 
Obedience , with unquestioned submission in awe and love to this great and holy God , our august Creator , is the only path of peace and happiness for kings or subjects ; and the only security for admission , after death , into His divine heaven above , `` whither , '' saith His holy servant Moses , `` all men will ultimately ascend , who faithfully serve Him on earth ; while those who , like Pharaoh-Thothmeses , despise Him and His power , will be banished forever from His celestial presence into the shades below , doomed there to endure woes that know no termination , through the cycles of the everlasting ages . '' 
