It has been your fortune to meet only with such as are pure ; but I -- '' `` Let it pass , Señor , '' was the interruption . 
`` How now , Señor ! 
Believe me , Señor , that , in giving me this lady , you offer the most powerful motives to my courage and fidelity , in the progress which lies before us , in the deep forests of the Floridian . '' 
Our grave Señor , Don Balthazar de Alvaro , will have it due only to the jealousies of our Spaniards , with whom these men of Portugal find but little favor . 
Something there may be in this , doubtless ; but , I trow , it would never be sufficient to discourage such young gallants , known for their bravery , and ambitious of wealth and distinction , were it not for the charms of the Lady Olivia , his fair niece , -- '' `` It may be that thou art right in thy conjecture , '' said Don Balthazar , interrupting the speaker , his brow again darkening as if with displeasure ; `` but it will profit them little that they turn their eyes in the direction of my niece . 
`` And wherefore , Señor ? '' 
-- '' `` Seventeen is a goodly age for female judgment , Señor , in affairs of the affections , '' was the answer of the lady . 
`` Deceive not thyself , Señor , '' said the Lady Isabella . 
I claim to understand it better , and I tell thee , Señor , that if ever woman loved cavalier , with all her soul , and with all her strength , then doth Olivia de Alvaro love this elder knight of Portugal , whom they call Philip de Vasconselos . '' 
`` Not always , Señor , unless old proverbs fail us . 
Say they not , that he is most apt to win her favor who less does for , and less deserves it ; and shape they not their sarcasm in such wise as to salve the hurts of self-esteem , by recognizing the propriety of that favor which provides for him who would never be able , of his own wits , to provide for himself ? 
`` What sayest thou , Señor ? '' 
`` We shall see , Señor , who better understands the heart of woman . 
Thou shalt not disparage this quest , Señor , since it is one which is ever precious in the sight of a generous knighthood . '' 
Señor , you phrase it well , and it is such fine eloquence that for a season reconciles the poor heart of woman to too many of the errantries of chivalry . 
Nay , you smile , -- but the story comes from your knights of Portugal -- Philip , the elder , has been among the savages in that country . '' 
But something , as you say , is due to the honor of Castile , and if Philip overthrows all other combatants , he must have a chance of including me among his captives . '' 
Andres de Vasconselos had many of the qualities of his elder brother , Philip . 
But Philip , the elder , enjoyed the high distinction of being usually understood when the family name was mentioned . 
He had done famous things under Almagro in Peru . 
He had once before traversed the neighboring continent of the Appalachian , at least as far as Cabeza de la Vaca had carried his explorations . 
He was wise , besides , prudent , circumspect and gentle , and these were virtues to which the younger brother , Andres , had but little claim . 
Of Philip we shall say more hereafter . 
Philip was a frequent visitor ; but he so chose his periods as seldom to cross his brother 's progress . 
`` Yet seems it to me , Señor , that thou wilt scarcely lack in the auspices which befriend thy opponent . 
Verily , Señor , that is a speech more gallantly than truly spoken . 
`` Verily , Señor , '' was the reply , `` that depends entirely on the bird that signs . 
The sentiment of the ballad was no less ungracious in his ears than in those of Andres ; and yet there was a secret feeling of satisfaction in the heart of Philip , that the ditty had been chosen in response to the prayer of a rival . 
He retired , with mingled feelings , from his place of watch , as the song ended , and strolled slowly through the alleys . 
In a little while he heard the footsteps and the voices of De Tobar and his companion , behind him , and perceived , with a pang , that his brother did not accompany them . 
Were I as confident of the answer she would make to the prayer of Philip as of Andres -- nay , were I not soconfident -- I should feel at rest . 
Philip looked up , at the entrance of his brother , and discovered , at a glance , that his emotions had been violently aroused and agitated . 
He welcomed him , however , with a gentle word and smile , the answer to which was at once brief and ungracious . 
`` Why troublest thou me with such questions , Philip ? 
I tell thee , Señor , I am , like thyself , a man , -- and fully capable of taking care of my own health and fortunes . '' 
Philip rose , as he caught the fearful expression in the other 's face . 
His own features were calm and firm , but filled with a tender concern and sympathy , such as spoke for the gentle and noble attachment with which the elder brother regarded the younger , and the favorite of their mother . 
`` Not through thyeloquence , surely , Señor Don Philip , lest thou shouldst haply forget thy client 's claims in the prosecution of thy own . '' 
said Philip sadly . 
Enough , now that my mood inclines to thee , to do thee right , Philip ; although I dread to think that I no longer love thee as I did . 
`` Brother -- '' `` Think not that I would wrong thee , Philip . 
No more of this , lest I grow wild and foolish , and curse thee , Philip , for thy better fortune . '' 
`` Nay , thou shalt not , brother , '' and he threw his arms tenderly about the unreasonable youth , who submitted but only for a moment to the embrace ; he shook himself free from it in the next instant . 
Philip 's eyes followed him with a deep and melancholy interest , full of sorrow and affection , as he saw him preparing once more to leave the cabin . 
Philip was really fond of Andres ; fond of him by reason of natural sympathies , as a brother ; fond of him by habit and association -- fond of all that was manly in his character -- proud of his spirit and youthful beauty -- fond of him , on account of their mother , and particularly so , as , for so long a time , he had been the guardian of his youth and fortunes . 
`` Once for all , Señor , let this folly cease . 
be silent , Señor -- be silent , for very shame . 
-- '' `` Ay , Señor , '' she answered , with a fearful vehemence , `` and last week , and months agone , even to that dark and damnable hour , when -- '' And she closed the sentence abruptly , covering her face with her hands as she did so , as if to shut from sight some terrible presence . 
Blot these out , Señor , from my memory ! 
Señor , -- brother of my wretched father , what hast thou done ! 
Thou hast slain the very hope -- the life of hope and happiness of his only child , given to thee in blessings and in sacred trust , all of which thou hast trampled under foot in scorn . '' 
muttered the Señor , after she had departed , `` and Anita has her own remedies . 
He seated himself , folded some strips of the fumous Cuban weed together , and lighted an extempore cigar , and still he soliloquized . 
Balthazar de Alvaro was a cold , unscrupulous villain ; but though his thoughts ran upon crime , it would be an injustice to him now to suppose them dictated by hatred . 
It was not from any sentiment of hostility that he pursued his victim , as his language fully testified . 
She would be true to Philip , as true as woman ever yet was to man ; -- he would protect her from all abuse and outrage -- would rescue her from the hostile power from which she had most reason to fear both ; and in the pure devotion of the future , might she not hope to repair the misfortunes of the past in which she could conscientiously affirm , that , however much she might have been the victim of the guilty , she had never been wittingly the participator in his crime ? 
Philip , though naturally and humanely troubled about the fate of Andres , sympathizing with him very sincerely in his disappointments , was yet too humanto be deeply grieved by the one misfortune -- over all -- which his brother felt , in the denial of his mistress . 
But Philip shook his head gravely . 
He valued the Lady Olivia too highly to fancy that she would be easy of attainment . 
His passion was too earnest , not to prompt him to a very severe questioning of his own merits , and to this effect was his reply to Tobar . 
But the latter loudly denounced his excessive modesty , and urged a thousand proofs , each conclusive to his own audacious spirit , for the encouragement of his friend . 
The entrance of Don Philip and De Tobar afforded De Sinolar an opportunity of dilating to a larger audience upon the excellence of his tastes in the choice of silks and colors . 
we shall shortly hear of your departure , Señor , '' said he ; `` and yet , by the way , I know not if I rightly include you in the expedition . 
They say , Señor , that you have not yet declared whether you accompany Don Hernan or not ; and some say , again , that you have half resolved notto go . 
If that is the game of Don Philip , he is wiser , I am free to confess , than most soldiers of my knowing . 
I beg you ten thousand pardons , Señor Don Philip , but I am bold to say I have regarded you as too much of the warrior to give heed to beauty -- too fond of the tilt and spear , to hold in overmuch estimation the darts from lady 's eyes , and the wounds they give ; -- wounds , I say it from my soul 's experience , such as no army surgeon can be found to heal ! '' 
Olivia , looking down the while , said in low tones -- `` But , Señor , you have not yet answered to the doubts of Don Augustin , touching your departure with the expedition . '' 
`` Well , Señor , it will be needful that you should decide shortly . 
`` But the fame , Señor -- the glory ? '' 
`` And have you never felt the eager desire for battle , Señor ? '' 
`` Your humanity is commendable , Señor , '' was the somewhat cold response of Vasconselos , who , indeed , had scarcely heeded what the other had been saying ; and now turned from him with a contempt which was sufficiently apparent . 
you scarcely mean that , I know , Señor Don Philip : but it matters nothing . 
If heads are to be cloven , let them take the hardest : if brains are to be scattered , it needs only that you choose such as can waste little : if hard blows are to be struck , get those men only for the work who have been trained to the boucan.If you love fighting , Don Philip , it is well for you : not for me . 
By the way , Señor Don Philip , they tell me you served with Francis Pizarro in Peru ! 
He was lucky , Señor -- very lucky . 
I remember him well . 
`` And wherefore not , Señor ? '' 
Señor , it is the wont of Cavaliers to use this sort of speech to foolish damsels . 
and why should the Señor Philip be insensible to the praises which have daily hailed his passages on every hand ? 
`` You have not offended me , Señor Philip , -- oh ! 
Señor , you are all too serious . 
Señor , release me -- let me go ! '' 
Philip darted forward to help her , when she recovered herself , bowed slightly to her lover , and followed her uncle from the room . 
`` His venerable housekeeper , who had been almost a mother to Olivia , watching and tending her youth with more than parental solicitude , was suddenly found dead in her seat . 
You must continue , Philip , your visits when the uncle is known to be busy elsewhere . 
hadst thou not utterly hardened thy soul against all that is noble , the words which Don Philip employed had smitten upon thy senses equally with mine , and thou hadst felt a shudder and a cold shame pass over thee , such as made me , perforce , refuse to listen to the devotion of that love which I could not help but feel . '' 
They spoke for his love only ! '' 
There were words in his speech which were as poisoned arrows to my heart . '' 
I would have him abandon his purpose , and seek me no more . 
Let him find one who , though she may love him less profoundly , will be more deserving of his affections . 
It is because I so muchlove him , that I will deny his prayer . 
Go to , Señor , thou shalt not alarm or confound me . 
But there was another reason for delay and hesitation : Philip had no such confidence in his own position , no such faith in his own powers , no such conviction of the favorable regards of the lady , as was asserted by Nuno . 
`` Where were you last night , Philip ? 
`` It shall be done , Philip ; but thou chafest me . 
She sees , and I , too , see , Philip , and we have no doubts . 
Philip , thou didst not hold it so wild ere thou sawest the fair niece of Don Balthazar . '' 
He will carry thee , perforce , Philip . '' 
`` I go sadly , Philip , to make evil report of thee to all good companions ! '' 
It was not too late , he fancied , to win Philip back to the enterprise , and he resolved freely to declare himself , to this effect , to the ears of the Adelantado . 
The command of a score or two of lances , and an honorable appointment , would , he persuaded himself , so influence Philip de Vasconselos , that , even if he married Olivia , he would still accompany or follow the expedition . 
Nuno de Tobar had given large currency to the report in a couple of hours ; but Philip , who was not without his policy , and whose desire was to circulate his decision , set other agents to work in its dissemination . 
Nuno de Tobar himself assured me that his present mood inclined him to forego the expedition , but he thought that , with proper efforts made , Don Philip might be persuaded to review his decision . '' 
Verily , I say myself , they have been quite too much slighted in this adventure , the more especially when we remember the claims of Don Philip , not merely as a brave warrior , and polished gentleman , but on account of the special qualities which he possesses from a former sojourn with the Floridian of Apalachia . 
You hear what is reported as coming from Don Philip himself . 
I believe the rumor , and think that he hath so expressed himself . 
He tried the pulse of Philip 's vanity and ambition with most laborious art , and a skill of practice which had succeeded with ninety-nine in the hundred of the young men of the time . 
Look , Señor , not a pearl is missing from thy coffers . '' 
`` It is certain that he loves you to distraction , Olivia . 
He says Philip is his friend , and he ca n't betray his friend 's secrets . 
And yet , would you believe it , when I ask him about your Philip and his secrets , only to tell you every thing , why he tells me that Philip says he will tell me , and that I will tell you , and then every body will know every thing . 
The fact is , Livy , one thing is very certain to me , that if your Philip speaks in that way -- though I do n't believe a word of it -- he 's a very saucy person , and Nuno should not listen to him . 
You must know , then , that Philip has determined not to go with the Adelantado , and he told Nuno that it was because he loved you so much . 
And Nuno says it has caused a great hubbub , and the Adelantado is in quite a fix , and your uncle , the old Turk , has been sent to your Philip to persuade him ; and Nuno thinks that Don Balthazar has made him a promise that if he goes with the expedition , and makes but one campaign , that he shall then have your hand . 
My Nuno and your Philip will come home together , and when you are married , we 'll buy a hacienda alongside of yours at Matelos , and we 'll be as happy as birds of Paradise with our husbands . 
I hope '' -- here her voice trembled -- `` I hope that Don Philip will never compel me to refuse his offer . '' 
`` Of course , he wo n't compel you to refuse . 
No , indeed ; if I were he I 'd rather compel you the other way , for say what you will , you love him , and you 'll have him , if he ever asks you ; and he loves you , and he will ask you ; and I shall be at the wedding , and we will live alongside of each other , in our two heavenly haciendas at Matelos , and there shall be no more wars , and no more campaigns in Florida , and -- and -- '' There was another breathing spell necessary for farther progress . 
Nuno says that Philip and his brother Andres have quarrelled , and it is all on your account . 
He told Philip that you had refused him -- '' `` He should not have done that . '' 
Philip never said a word ; -- and Don Andres went off from him and took away all the Portuguese soldiers , who were all followers of Don Andres . 
But Philip has still less , having spent all his patrimony in Florida before , when he went there with Cabeza de Vaça . 
Philip has n't even a page to buckle on his armor , and he has given Nuno his money -- all that he has , I suspect , -- to buy him a negro boy to serve as a page to bring his horse and buckle on his armor . 
I am very , very sorry for poor Philip . '' 
Your uncle relents ; Don Philip loves you ; you love him ; there will be nothing to prevent your marrying him now , and your happiness is sure . 
I shall never marry Don Philip , or any man . 
Your hand is not a light one , Señor . '' 
It was under this desire that Philip had , in the meanwhile , forborne , however anxious , to visit the woman whom he loved quite as passionately , though with more generosity and prudence , than his brother . 
He made no allusions to her in his intercourse with Andres , and was studious so to select the subjects of his conversation , as by no possibility to prompt the mind of the youth to turn in the direction in which his heart had suffered hurt . 
Nothing was spoken which either might well avoid ; and Philip felt with sorrow , that the chasm between them was hourly growing greater in depth and width . 
But he felt with still greater sorrow that nothing could then be done to arrest its increase . 
The kind words addressed to him by Philip were answered only in monosyllables , which were sometimes more than cold , and accompanied by looks which the truly warm feelings of the elder brother regarded as little less than savage . 
Philip did not forbear his efforts , because they were received with indifference . 
He felt that the moment was one which might form the tnrning point , the pivot , of a sad and serious future . 
While in this attitude , Philip rose suddenly from where he lay , and moved by a brotherly impulse , approached him and threw himself quietly by his side . 
The expression was an unpleasant one to Philip . 
We have crossed weapons in the tourney a thousand times ere this , in our early exercises , -- nay , in the very training which thou hast given me , and which , as a grateful pupil , '' -- this was spoken with a smile by no means pleasing in the eyes of Philip , -- `` I am only too glad to have received at thy hands . 
But thou hast other feelings , fears and hopes than those which possessed thee when a boy ; thou hast grown a man of cares ; and , I grieve to think it , my brother , thou no longer look ` st upon me , thy Philip , as the loving friend from whom came thy first lessons in arts and arms . 
`` Verily , Philip , thou hast betrayed thy modesty . 
Philip did not regard the interruption . 
`` By the Blessed Virgin , thou speakest , Don Philip , as if I were already beneath thy spear -- '' `` Forgive me , brother , that I have done so ! 
I but -- '' `` And I tell thee , Don Philip , I no more reck of thylance , than I do of that of the least famous of all these Castilian cavaliers ! 
Have done , I pray thee , good Don Philip , and let the time bring its own brood ; whether of hawks or sparrows , it matters not . 
Philip extended his hand affectionately to his brother , as he made this appeal . 
The other did not receive it ; but , waving his own in the direction of the orb now rapidly disappearing behind the last distant billows of the sea , he said coldly -- `` He sinks ! '' 
The banner which floated above the pavilion of Philip , bore the image of a ruined castle , from which a falcon had spread its wings and was away . 
Philip was mounted upon a coal-black steed of famous nurture ; large of frame , strong of muscle , fleet of foot , hardy to endure , and of a beautiful symmetry . 
It was a pleasure to behold his form , simply as he stood , without motion , obedient to the rein . 
His eyes flashed fire as he darted into the ring , and heard the mingled cries and clamors from a hundred trumpets , and a thousand voices . 
Though docile as a lamb , his forefoot pawed the earth impatiently , as if emulous of the laurels also , and his breast heaved , like a rocking ship , that strains upon the cordage , as if anxious to break away upon the billows . 
With a further obeisance , Philip closed his visor , and rode back to his place in the lists -- a place which brought him to confront the burly form of the gigantic Mateo de Aceytuno . 
But Philip and Olivia were , at that moment , wholly unconscious of the watch maintained upon them . 
Their lances had been mutually well addressed , and had shivered at the same moment , both knights preserving their seats handsomely , though not , perhaps , with equal grace ; -- for Philip had few equals in mere carriage -- and recovered their places in an instant ; but proper judgments remarked , in the strong patoisof the mountains , that the horse of Mateo had too little bonefor his master 's beef.In this , he certainly suffered some disadvantage . 
Something of this advantage was said to be due to a loosening of the girth , by which the saddle of the heavy knight was secured ; but others more liberal , perhaps just , ascribed it to the better skill of Philip ; at all events , the one opponent disappearing from the field , Philip de Vasconselos found himself in the presence of another , in the person of his friend , Nuno de Tobar . 
We have said nothing of the influence which the presence of Olivia de Alvaro had upon this feeling of Philip . 
It is enough to say that it did not , by any means , lessen his fixed resolution to employ all the prowess of which he was master in the approaching controversy . 
Both lances were shivered equally , the strokes being made at the same moment , and each delivering it fairly upon the shield of his enemy . 
He was assisted off from the field , and Philip now rode back to his place , prepared for the next encounter . 
The caprices of the day had left him without other antagonist , of all the challengers , than the portly Hidalgo , Don Vasco Porcallos de Figueroa . 
Don Philip gracefully rejected this acknowledgment , and , ascribing the event solely to the sufferings of his rival 's horse , proposed that Don Vasco should find another . 
The moment he beheld him , Philip muttered to himself , closing his visor : `` Thou too , my brother ! 
The visor of Andres was already closed , and Philip could not behold his face ; but he could readily conjecture the crimson flush which covered it , -- the usual sign of his intemperate passion . 
He had been somewhat surprised , that Andres had taken nopart in the tournament before ; but the feeling was not one of regret , since , as we have seen , he had already entertained some misgivings that his brother might take the field against himself . 
Indeed , to speak plainly , Philip knew too well his own superiority of training , art , and muscle ; though the vanity of Andres was such that he had persuaded himself to a very different estimate of their mutual powers . 
The reluctance of Philip to engage in such a contest , even though the tournament implied neither strife nor malice , was based upon his just knowledge of human nature ; upon his thorough experience in respect to the mood and character of Andres -- his passionate blood ; his disappointments of heart ; his jealousy of the superior influence and reputation of his brother . 
We can readily divine the several reasons which governed Philip in his anxiety to escape a conflict , in regard to which he yet entertained no fears . 
Now that they stood confronted , and the contest was inevitable , he endeavored to calm his own blood , and control his temper , somewhat excited by the circumstances which had marked his treatment by the Adelantado and the assembly . 
It was true that , even if Andres should succeed against Philip , the honor would be lost to Castile ; but to this finality , their vision did not extend . 
Such were the thoughts of Philip also . 
But he strove to restrain and silence them ; and , in the brief interval allowed him , his inward struggle was to subdue himself , -- to keep his own bad passions in subjection , and to offer no such provocation to those of his brother , as would place him entirely beyond control of human reason . 
He resolved to be forbearing in all respects . 
But this did not imply that he would forego any of his resources of skill or strength in the conflict . 
He was not , by any means , to yield his claims to the honors of the field , in favor of anyopponent . 
On this point he was resolute ; and , thus resolved , it became him , if he would effect his triumph , and avoid giving unnecessary provocation , or inflicting mortification upon his brother , that he should maintain the coolest temper , and suffer nothing to disturb his passions . 
It required some effort to do this , for he had felt bitterly his isolation in the last few moments , -- a feeling sadly increased , when , as he phrased it , his own brother had joined his enemies against him . 
His instincts , too , were at work ; and remembering to have heard of the quarrel between the brothers , he began to think there was something unnatural in the approaching combat . 
His conscience reproached him for the ungenerous delay which had kept Philip de Vasconselos from the crown of victory , and afforded the opportunity for the event , of the results and character of which he had grown apprehensive ; and he looked dubiously at the warder of the field , Don Balthazar de Alvaro , and for the first time felt suspicious of those motives , on his part , which had moved him to urge the delay in closing the lists . 
He made headlong way towards Don Philip , who had now drawn up his steed , and stood quietly , if not calmly , awaiting him at the barriers , which was as far back as he could recede . 
Here he must stop and encounter what should happen , if he would not incur the disgrace of seeming to fly , which would have befallen him should he again put his horse in motion to escape from further assault . 
He had not long to wait . 
Then it was that Philip exhibited , in highest degree , the wonderful spirit and activity which he possessed . 
In an instant he threw himself off from his steed , and , without weapon of any kind in his grasp , confronted his brother . 
The latter at first seemed not to perceive the unarmed condition of Don Philip , and all expected that he would strike , from the manner in which he shook his battle-axe and pushed forward . 
But , seeing ere he struck that his brother was unarmed , he cried out hoarsely -- `` Get thee thy weapons ! '' 
was the calm reply of Don Philip -- `` wherefore this madness ? '' 
With these passionate words , showing him entirely beyond control of reason , he at once strode forward , and struck , with deadly and determined aim and stroke , full at the crest of Don Philip ! 
He lightly stepped aside from the blow , which was such , that , if it had encountered his head , had certainly brought him down , powerful as he was . 
He stepped aside and escaped it ; and , before the younger brother could recover his position , he grasped him by the arm ; and with such a vigor as no one deemed him to possess , he wrested the axe from the grasp of the infuriate youth , with as little seeming effort as if the latter had been only a child in his hands . 
Don Andres hath no control of himself in his passion , and see you not that the victory already rests with Don Philip ? '' 
`` But Don Philip , you perceive , does notdesire it . '' 
`` Then , by my troth , he loses some of his renown as a warrior . 
He should face his foe with any weapon . '' 
He confronted Don Philip with a passion as reckless as before , but this time with the feelings of despair and shame , rather than of rage and hate . 
he cried , `` strike , Philip de Vasconselos , as at thy enemy ! 
With these words , Philip flung the battle-axe to a distance . 
They did not see the bitter smile that mantled the face of Philip as he heard these uproars of admiration . 
He knew the value of popular applause , and quietly remounting his steed , he stood in silence waiting for the summons of the warder , to the foot of the dais , where the Adelantado was to place the crown upon the lance of the conqueror , who was required , in turn , to lay it at the foot of the lady whom he should designate as the Queen of Love and Beauty . 
He was thoroughly disarmed by the conduct of Philip ; and some compunctious visitings of conscience now made him anxious to atone , as far as possible , by the most prompt acknowledgment , for his past coldness and neglect . 
Don Philip received the prize with the most graceful obeisance , but in profound silence ; then advancing to the foot of the seat occupied by Olivia de Alvaro , he knelt , and laid the coronet before her , dropping his lance at the same moment beside him . 
She arose slowly , amid that general hush of expectation , which , by the way , increased her confusion ; stooped to the crown which rested upon the footstool where Philip had laid it ; lifted it , and advanced a step , in order to place it on his head . 
Thenit was , while all was commotion in the assembly , that the passionate love of Don Philip for the unconscious damsel in his arms , overcame and banished all the previous calm and steadfastness in his manner . 
He thought her dead . 
He cried aloud for succor , while drawing her closely to his bosom , as if to warm her anew with his own tumultuous fires . 
Before any one could interpose , he had borne her back to the seat , supporting her with vigorous arm , and appealing to her consciousness by the most endearing efforts and expressions . 
He was at that moment freed from all the conventional restraints which had hitherto made his passion cautious , and taught concealment as the proper policy of love . 
He was now not unwilling that the world should hear what he had hitherto never declared to her , and with the sense of her danger and his loss , he became indifferent to the opinion of those around , a regard to which is so characteristic of the proud and sensitive nature . 
But he was not suffered long to indulge in a situation which he found so painfully sweet . 
He was brought to consciousness by the interposition of other persons . 
Don Balthazar de Alvaro was soon at his side , and , laying his hand with rather a rude grasp upon the shoulder of our knight , he bade him release the lady to those who could better effect her restoration , and who were the most proper persons to attempt it . 
Next came the wife of Tobar , followed by the lady of the Adelantado and others , to whom Philip was compelled to resign her . 
To these he yielded her , though with reluctance . 
He shook off the grasp of Don Balthazar , and answered his looks and words with an abruptness of manner , and a glance of fire , which declared the hostility and scorn which he truly felt , and in which the uncle was taught to read the language of defiance . 
The events which were yet to occur served , in great degree , to disarm him of that jealous hostility to Philip which had been the sole cause of his recent madness . 
Philip , though solicitous of his health and safety , never obtruded himself upon him . 
He was content to leave to time the work of repair . 
Of course it is understood that he can never be reconciled to her union with Philip , or , indeed , with any man . 
His selfishness , at once of avarice and passion , was a settled necessity , and utterly adverse to her finding happiness , according to the dictates of her affections . 
He was required to strengthen her determination against the pleadings of her own heart , as well as of her lover , to lessen the strength of her feelings by stimulating her propriety , and to keep her virtuous magnanimity active , as a barrier against her passion . 
I can never be the wife of Don Philip . 
As I am , it is impossible that I should think of happiness , or should so wrong him in my desire for it , as to unite my grief and shame to his honor and his fortunes . '' 
You mean as you say , no doubt , now that you are comparatively calm , and when he is not present ; but when he appears , and you see him before you -- at your feet , -- where will be your fine resolutions ? 
I can not marry Don Philip ; I willnot ; though I tell you frankly , that I should know no greater secret of happiness than this , were this possible . 
And she sunk into a long , sad revery ; and the thought of Don Philip came to her , and brought with it fancies of the most bright and cheering felicity . 
She fancied him at her feet ; she thought of herself in his arms . 
`` He has not , Señor . 
`` No , Señor -- '' `` It must be so , I tell thee ; for the fellow is not likely to leave Havana so long as these amusements last ; and there should be no places of hiding in the city which should be beyond the reach of a good officer ! 
`` Señor , I will not sleep in this search . '' 
But Mateo was not ready to incur such a peril , and distrusted all the assurances of the Don , whom he too well knew readily to confide in . 
`` Yes , Señor , the same ! 
I hear that she was poisoned , Señor . '' 
She was poisoned , and I have to find out the poisoner and settle with him '' -- here he handled his machete . 
`` It 's his blood or mine , your Excellency . '' 
The words of Leonora assured her that she might surely look for Don Philip 's coming soon -- that very day , perhaps ; and it was with an interest which the poor girl dared not acknowledge to herself , that she arrayed her charms to the best possible advantage ; and gazed with a sorrowful sort of satisfaction into the mirror which reflected them to her eyes . 
That it should have reached the ears of Philip , was her new terror ! 
She could bear his loss -- she could be content to give him up forever -- but that he should knowher shame ; that his noble soul should become conscious of the deadly stain upon hers -- thatshe could never bear , and live ! 
If I have one death for Don Philip , whom I rather love , I have a dozen deaths for him whom I hate ; and he shall taste them all if he tries to make a fool of me ! '' 
Philip , though anxious , and now very hopeful , was too generous , whatever his anxiety , to appear before her while she suffered . 
He had learned that day , however , from Nuno de Tobar , that she was at length well enough to receive visitors ; and he had chosen the most delicious of the hours of the day , in that clime and season , to approach her with his congratulations , his thanks , and possibly with the assurances of a sympathy , far beyond any thing implied by these , in his love and admiration ! 
The dusk was nearly darkness in the wood ; and , for a moment , Don Philip could see nothing , though he impulsively took a few steps into the thicket in order to trace the secret of the outcry . 
He was not left long in doubt . 
Suddenly , a gigantic figure , that seemed to rise from the earth where he had fallen , bounded close beside him . 
He was followed by three others , who now rushed out of the wood and made after the fugitive , armed with swords and knives . 
They were close upon his heels , and he turned about to confront them . 
The chivalry of Don Philip was aroused as he beheld . 
We are under the authority of Don Balthazar de Alvaro , and these are his grounds . 
Don Philip heard the words distinctly . 
he asked . 
Beware , Señor , how you arrest the officers of justice , and help the escape of the criminal ! 
`` Let them pass , Señor , '' cried the fugitive . 
The confidence with which the outlaw spoke determined Philip to oppose the officers no farther . 
He probably saw that it would be prudent only to forbear a quarrel with the public authorities , knowing , as he did , how doubtful were his own relations with the Adelantado , and how small his popularity with the Spaniards at large . 
`` You are right , '' said he to the officers ; `` I have nothing to do with this business ! '' 
and he turned aside , and put up his weapon . 
For several minutes , Don Philip listened to their outcries , as they severally crashed their way into the thickets . 
He half regretted that he had not still farther delayed the chase after the bold outlaw . 
But , of this escape , Philip knew not at the moment . 
He resumed his progress towards the dwelling , his mood having become somewhat sterner by the momentary excitement . 
Hardly had he advanced a dozen steps , however , when he encountered the girl , Juana , wringing her hands , and showing many signs of terror . 
Señor Don Philip , how I thank you ! 
They will give him to the garote vil , if they take him ; and it is I who have betrayed him . '' 
not to him , but to the poor young lady , the Señorita Olivia ? '' 
`` And he is your brother ? 
nothing in the world , Señor ; nothing in the world ; only he is too good to do work at the hacienda . 
They charge him with murder and other things . 
He is the best person in the world , Señor , and the best brother , and he killed the great bull , El Moro ; and would be as good a Christian as Father Paul himself , if they 'd only let him have his own way . '' 
I knew you 'd think so , Señor . 
He is only too good for the like of them . 
He is the best brother in all Cuba . '' 
She had been taught to look for him by the garrulous assurances of Leonora de Tobar , who had gathered from her husband 's report that Don Philip would surely come that night . 
Don Philip might have made the visit in vain ; he might have been denied ; probably would have been ; though it is difficult to say . 
The task of denial would have been a hard one to the poor damsel , loving him as she did ; and reluctant as she was to say him nay -- to say nay to the pleadings of her own passion , no less than his . 
She had dressed herself for Philip -- she had been solicitous of charms which , perhaps , needed little help from art or ornament for conquest . 
At all events , the lie of the girl , Juana , told with no malignant purpose , but simply to prevent the discovery of her unlicensed absence by her mistress , changed , very completely , the whole current of our history -- changed the fortunes of Don Philip , no less than those of the lady of his love . 
Not that he did not again seek her -- but this must be a matter for future revelation . 
It sha n't be the good Don Philip , I know . 
He is a good knight . 
I love him . 
And my lady loves him too , better than all things in this world . 
But if he knew ! 
If he only knew what I know ! 
But he shall never know for me ! 
And if he marries her , I shall be so glad . '' 
The sense of pain and apprehension increased to absolute terror , as it became certain that she was not to see Don Philip that night . 
murmured the poor girl to herself : `` Will he murder him because he hath destroyed his hope as well as mine ! 
Tell him , above all things , not to lift hand or weapon against Don Philip -- '' `` But I did n't say 't was Don Philip , Señorita . '' 
If he hurts one hair of Don Philip 's head , I will have him hunted up in the mountains by all the troops of the Adelantado , and I will never sleep till they bring him to the garote vil.Now , warn him . 
Let him be faithful to me , and I will make you both free . 
See him soon . 
Find him . 
Do not rest till you tell him all . 
`` Why , that you are to be the bride of Don Philip . '' 
It is settled only that I am notto be the bride of Don Philip ! '' 
Olivia , you have not been so foolish as to refuse him ? 
You who really love him so ! '' 
`` He has not given me the opportunity , Leonora . '' 
But he has been here ? '' 
When you marry Don Philip take your position firmly at the outset ; and seize the first opportunity of putting your foot down so -- and saying , ` ` Twont do , Don Philip ! 
I am my own mistress , Don Philip , and if you were a wise gentleman , and a gallant , I should be yours also ! ' 
You are troubled with the blues only , and will recover as soon as Don Philip comes singing -- ` Will you , will you , -- wo n't you , Olivia ? ' 
And he will come , I assure you . 
I only wonder , after what he said yesterday , that he was not here last evening . 
He will be sure to come this , so take care and see to your toilet . 
when he goes to Florida he will send you bushels of them . 
I do not think that Don Philip cares for me , and I assure you we shall never be married . '' 
You must n't refuse Don Philip on any account . 
He will take you out of the custody of your uncle , who is only a sort of great Moorish bull , such as fought the other day in the ring ; and a monstrous pretty fight he made , indeed ! 
If I could see Don Balthazar fighting in the same manner , till he was killed , and dead outright , and lying sprawling in red blood , and with his neck and shoulder stuck full of banderillas , I think I should like him a great deal better . 
But now I do n't like him at all . 
Here he keeps you no better than a prisoner . 
In fact , Olivia , I half suspect he likes you better , as a woman , than as a niece , and would rather not see you married to anybody . '' 
You must take some of my drops , and take more exercise , and take advice , Olive , and what 's more and better , take Don Philip . 
he will cure you of all these infirmities . 
By the way , something odd of your Don Philip . 
You must know that he has the most eccentric tastes in the world . 
He gave Nuno a commission to buy him a negro boy , a sort of lacquey , fifteen or sixteen -- a lad to go on messages , and polish his armor , and help lace him in it , and perhaps dress his hair -- who knows what sort of duties the page of a young gallant has to perform ? 
And none pleases our excellent Don Philip . 
He has a taste , would you believe it , even in the choice of a negro . 
The latter drooped , and became more and more apathetic in proportion to the efforts of Leonora to arouse her ; and , giving up the task , in no satisfied humor , she at length took her departure , with a promise to return as soon as she could hear that Don Philip had made his visit . 
Not so , Philip . 
He had fully resolved notto accompany the expedition ; -- we have seen with what reason . 
He enjoyed no command , and felt that he had not made himself friends among the Spaniards , and that he could never become the favorite of the Adelantado . 
But his chief reason , perhaps , lay in the growth of his hopes of favor in the eyes of Olivia de Alvaro . 
The notion seemed to him perfectly ridiculous , and he greatly resented the absence from the feast upon which Philip had resolved . 
`` It will never do , Philip , '' said he . 
`` And you must , Philip ; we can not well do without you . '' 
`` Then are they the most ungrateful rascals in the world , and the greater fools , too , '' replied Philip . 
Verily , Philip , for a wise man thou hast strange notions of thine own ! 
Philip told of the encounter with the outlaw and the alguazils , and added , -- `` But , with the blessing of the Virgin , I will seek her to-day . 
`` She loves thee , Philip ! 
`` I could almost pray , Philip , that she should send thee from her with the blessing of Abaddon , which is said to be very much like a curse ! '' 
And he grasped vigorously the hand of his friend . 
They separated after some further conversation , and Philip retired to the recesses of his humble lodging . 
He had appointed to himself the afternoon for his purposed visit to Olivia . 
He was impatient for its approach . 
His soul was teeming with delicious fancies . 
Truly , as he had said to Nuno de Tobar , he was delivered up to softer influences than those of war . 
Philip 's heart was fairly open to fairy eyes . 
His soul warmed and was thawed beneath the spells of that winged and fanciful sunlight . 
He had thrown aside all the restraints which held him in check , through policy when amid the crowd . 
Here was solitude , and silence , and the shade ; -- and the pathway led to love ; and the smiles of heaven were upon his progress ! 
His step was free as air ; his soul buoyant with hope ! 
He would soon feast his eyes upon those precious features of the beloved one , which seemed to them to make a heaven of the place where they inhabited ! 
And the great shadows gathered behind him as he went ; and the trees grew motionless ; and the woods ceased to breathe and murmur ; and the silence deepened ; and the pathways darkened ; and all was harmony and security ! 
Philip went forward , meeting with no interruption . 
He passed from pathway to pathway along a route well known . 
The avenues widened : he was approaching the dwelling . 
In a few moments he would be in the sight , would be at the feet of her , upon whose word hung all his world of hope and fear . 
Well might he tremble with the increase of his emotions . 
It was in the midst of his wildest anticipations and most trembling hopes , that Philip was suddenly aroused to more common associations , by the appearance of a man suddenly springing out of the lemon thicket beside him . 
He drew back , and laid hand upon his sword . 
`` Do n't be alarmed , Señor . 
`` It is thither I am going , '' said Philip , `` but I must go alone , my good fellow . '' 
You were going -- pardon me , Señor , -- to declare your love for the Señorita . '' 
`` Pardon me , Señor , I say again ; -- but I know it ; -- every body in Havana expects it . 
She is not for you Señor , -- she is not worthy of you ! '' 
`` Forgive me , Señor ; but give me time , and give yourself time . 
Just come with me now ; '' and he almost dragged him forward . 
Philip obeyed , and ascended the steps of the verandah ; the curtains were lifted ; he disappeared among the columns , and Mateo waited without , among the groves . 
Scarcely had Philip disappeared from his sight , when his form was again seen , emerging from among the columns . 
A single hollow groan escaped him . 
Philip staggered away , without offering opposition . 
His head swam ; his knees tottered beneath him . 
said he . 
`` Rest here , '' answered the outlaw , conducting him to a wooden seat enveloped in shrubbery , and almost forcing him down upon it , while he plucked an orange from the shrub-tree above him , and in a second laid its rich juices open with a knife . 
exclaimed Philip , after a pause , rejecting the orange , and staggering up from the seat -- `` I can not rest here , or any where ! 
That leads you back -- '' With a shudder , Philip wheeled about , and hurried off in the opposite direction ; the outlaw following him respectfully , and in silence . 
Here I must leave you , Señor . 
Philip grasped his hand . 
and he groaned heavily . 
`` I ask no reward , Señor . 
Let me go now , Señor . '' 
But , if you slay him , you expose her!Let him live . 
I saw when you and Don Philip went towards the summer-house . 
`` What remains , '' murmured Philip , `` but that I go with this expedition ? 
Under this new impulse , he hurried forward rapidly towards the scene of festivity , as if fearing to trust himself to think further upon the subject of his progress . 
It was not long before he reached the place ; the shouts from within , the music , assailing his ears with a sense of pain , without , however , impairing his resolution to join the revellers , -- to engage in their expedition . 
The structure in which the Adelantado and his Floridian chivalry held their feast was , as we have said , a rude , simple fabric , designed only for the temporary purpose . 
The glances of the assembly followed those of the Adelantado , and rested upon the flushed countenance of Philip . 
He saw the direction given to the words of De Soto , and felt the purpose of the latter to inflict a sting upon his pride and heart . 
But Philip was little moved by these unfriendly auspices . 
He respected De Soto as a brave and noble cavalier , distinguished equally by talents and graces , and high in favor of his sovereign ; but his respect and admiration were not so profound as to cause him to suffer any mortification from the loss of his favoring countenance . 
He advanced towards the daiswhich had been assigned to the Adelantado , raising him a little above the rest of the assembly , -- passing through the crowd with exceedingly deliberate pace , until he stood but a few paces from the person he addressed . 
`` Your Excellency , '' said he , `` has been pleased to indulge in certain remarks of censure upon that unambitious , unperforming and timid class , who , bred to arms , are yet reluctant to engage in the honorable adventure to which you invite them . 
`` Not so , Señor , not so , by God ! '' 
exclaimed De Soto , interrupting him energetically . 
Philip saw the smile , and his face was suddenly flushed with crimson . 
`` But it matters not , '' he proceeded , `` to say wherefore I hesitated to declare my purpose . 
But Philip neither heard nor listened . 
He was making his way out , when his hand was suddenly seized by that of his brother Andres . 
exclaimed Philip , throwing his arm around the neck of the youth , while a sudden gush of tears from overfull fountains blinded his eyes . 
The speech of Philip had taught Andres -- strangely enough -- that the passion of his brother for Olivia de Alvaro had proved as fruitless as his own . 
Philip tore himself away from the brief embrace , and was hurrying out , when Nuno de Tobar rushed up , and , warmed with wine , caught him exultingly in his arms . 
`` But how is all this , Philip ? '' 
Instinctively , Philip grasped the handle of his sword , and his eyes were fastened upon the uncle of Olivia , with such an expression as made the latter start , as at the approach of a famished tiger . 
Philip recovered himself in a moment , turned away from the face of him whom he longed to destroy , and was followed out by Nuno into the open air . 
`` Holy Mother , but your looks , Philip -- '' `` Heed them not -- heed me not -- let me leave you , Nuno , I am not fit for this assembly . '' 
That Philip had notaddressed his niece , Don Balthazar was quite certain . 
That they had no interview , he was assured . 
That she had received no written communication he was equally confident . 
It was clear that Philip , without testing his hopes at all , had suddenly abandoned them . 
Guilt is always a thing of terror , and the discovery of such guilt as that of Don Balthazar , was doubly terrible to the conscious fears within his bosom . 
He now saw the significance of that look which Philip had cast upon him as he came into the assembly , and readily divined the mystery which puzzled all other persons . 
was his secret thought . 
`` What was the discovery which Philip had made ? ' 
`` To what degree was he committed by it ? '' 
His anxieties increased with his unuttered inquiries , addressed to himself . 
His secretiveness was a large development in his moral organization . 
He could smile , and look calmly about him , and engage in the frivolous conversation of society , -- in all the business of the crowd -- seemingly unmoved , -- while the vultures of doubt , and dread , and conscience , were all at work tearing at his vitals . 
He joined in the talk going on in the assembly . 
In this way he might obtain some clues to the secret of Philip . 
But he learned nothing satisfactory . 
One fact , however , he gathered from all that was said , which seemed to weigh upon his thoughts ; and that only related to the sudden appearance of the knight of Portugal , at a late hour , in fact not many minutes before himself . 
`` Where had he been till that hour ? '' 
`` I will sound him ! '' 
was the unexpressed resolution of the Don , as he sauntered around , gradually winding his way towards the place where Nuno had taken his seat . 
His mind was in some confusion , as well from the wine he had taken , as from the conference with Philip . 
But the approach of Don Balthazar served , in some degree , to steady his intellect , and make him cautious . 
He knew that Olivia 's uncle had been hostile to his friend . 
It had not escaped the notice of Nuno , that the glance with which Philip had met Don Balthazar , but a few moments before , was that of a determined , if not a savage hatred . 
Sympathizing earnestly with his friend , Nuno shared , in some degree , his hostile sentiments . 
Don Balthazar probably knew the cause of Philip 's conduct . 
There might have been an open rupture between them : -- Don Balthazar , like Philip , had been absent from the festivities until a late hour . 
`` Would you believe it , Leonora , it is all over with Philip and Olivia ? 
There is a breach between them , which Philip says is impassable ! 
He has joined the expedition . 
What has caused it , he does not say ; but he tells me that there is an end of the matter ; that she is nothing to him now . '' 
Has she refused him ? 
He has not asked her ! 
He told me so in so many words . '' 
Be assured that Philip has been refused . 
She said she would refuse him , but I did not believe her . 
I know she loves him . 
I wonder where she expects to find another like him . 
`` I do n't believe it , child ; for I believe Philip , and he positively assured me that he had not asked her . 
He 's not the man to lie , or to be ashamed of rejection . 
He has no such weakness . 
He was very earnest about it -- very miserable , -- and entreated me never again to speak to him on the subject . '' 
`` Then I 'm sure she has refused him . 
Did he say he had not seen her ? '' 
I knew that he went to the hacienda late in the afternoon , and he admits that he saw her , but did not speak to her . '' 
He hates Don Philip -- he hates both the brothers -- I have seen thata thousand times . 
Philip is not the man to be rejected by any woman in a hurry , and I am convinced , like yourself , that Olivia really loves him as she will be likely to love no other person . 
He manages her property , and has , I suspect , but little of his own . 
He will be very unwilling to resign the power which this gives him into the hands of any other person . 
`` Yet , it is his influence certainly , that has somehow brought the affair to this unfortunate conclusion , and Philip feels this . 
Had you but seen the look which he gave Don Balthazar when they met to-night . 
His fingers clutched the handle of his sword convulsively , and the gleam of hatred in his eyes was mixed up with such an expression of horror and disgust , as I never saw in mortal eye before . 
She loves him , I tell you , beyond all other persons . 
She will never suffer herself to be deprived of him , if she can help it ; and I do n't think she could survive it . 
I tell you , Nuno , she idolizes Don Philip , and she will marry him yet , in spite of Don Balthazar . '' 
`` Yes , perhaps ; -- and yet , from what Philip said to-night , it will hardly depend upon her . 
He used the strongest language -- '' `` Oh ! 
He will forget his resolution as soon as he lays his eyes upon her , and looks into her pale sweet face , and hears the soft silvery voice that answers to his own . 
He talks as if he would tear her to pieces , no doubt ; but let him sleep upon it , and he will rise in the morning to renew his worship . '' 
You will admit that if Philip has seen her , then the probability is that she has refused him . '' 
`` He himself admits that he has seen her -- seen her this very day , but denies that he has spoken with her . 
You say he went to see her , and didsee her , but said nothing ? '' 
`` Yes ; that is precisely what he asserts . '' 
he means no more than this -- that he did not propose . '' 
`` It may be -- yet he spoke very precisely and positively . '' 
If she says so much as that , you will readily suppose that Don Philip has simply kept back something which his pride will not suffer him to confess . '' 
`` Yes ; -- though how to believe it of Philip -- how to suppose him so weak , or to think that he should keep back the truth from me -- that is what troubles me . '' 
Very excellent reasons , Señor ; they gave him credit for discovering more precious treasures in Havana than he was like to find in Florida , and at less peril of life and comfort ; and these were surely good reasons for staying . '' 
`` The truth is , '' continued Leonora , `` nobody could question the admiration of Don Philip for our dear Olivia here . 
Everybody saw it ; it was in everybody 's mouth ; and to confess my conviction , I was very sure that Olivia had just as much regard for Don Philip as he felt for her . '' 
`` Well , Señor , that is well said by a guardian ; but hearts are not always regulated by the strict letter of domestic law . 
Affections are strangely wilful things , Señor , and very apt to fly in the face of authority . '' 
I was born a woman , Señor , and I believe I will always be one , let me live never so long . 
It 's the fool 's privilege , as you have just said , against which there is no law , to say what one pleases of his friends ; and you have certainly the same rights as other people ; but , in truth , if you will suffer me , I will speak rather of Olivia and Don Philip , as being just now much better subjects , and about which I feel much more concerned . '' 
I feel vexed at this strange determination of Don Philip , knowing that he loves you , and believing that you love him , that he should resolve to go without addressing you . 
But perhaps he hasdone so , and you have been so foolish as to refuse him ! 
`` He has notaddressed me , Leonora ; he has not even been here . 
I have not seen him since the moment when I was taken sick at the tournament . '' 
You certainly haveseen him within the last two days , though he may not have proposed to you . '' 
`` He has certainly seen yousince the tournament . '' 
`` He told Nuno that he had ! 
Told him so only last night . '' 
She noted the curious expression in his eyes , and was determined to withhold nothing which should either obtain for herself the secret which she desired , or should goad the haughty Don with revelations which she somehow fancied would annoy him . 
When , therefore , Olivia anxiously besought her , as to the alleged visit of Philip , she prepared to tell all that she knew . 
`` Well , I know that he has been to see you twice in the last two days . 
He came day before yesterday , and was a party to an encounter which took place in your grounds here between a troop of alguazils and a certain outlaw . '' 
Philip told Nuno all about it . 
He interposed , finding half a score of persons upon one ; until the officers told him how the matter stood , and then he suffered them to proceed . 
The outlaw made his escape , however ; and Don Philip then proceeded to visit you , when your girl , Juana , met him , and told him that you were sick and had retired for the night . '' 
`` You say that Don Philip came here again , Leonora ? 
`` Yes -- so he assured Nuno last night . '' 
`` So he said ; but , strangely enough , he mentioned that though he saw you , he did not speak to you . 
Yet he came to speak . 
He came to offer you his hand . '' 
`` You say , Señora , that Don Philip was here last evening ? 
He came hither about sunset . 
His asseveration went for nothing , particularly as Leonora insisted that Don Philip had declared the fact to her husband , only last night , and after the former had made his speech . 
yes , Señor ; Don Philip was certainly here ; and was at the summer-house . 
I saw him when he was leaving it . 
It was there he must have seen the Señorita . 
You came out of the summer-house just after Don Philip had gone . '' 
`` You , Señor ! '' 
`` Yes , my lady -- the Señor went to the summer-house after he had dined . 
But it was dusk before I saw Don Philip . 
I did not see Don Philip when he came , but only when he was coming down the steps of the summer-house , and was going away ; and I was quite frightened to see his face . 
He looked like a man that was going crazy ; and O ! 
how he did groan ! 
I heard him ! 
I was quite afraid to go near him . '' 
`` What did he here at that hour ! '' 
cried Don Balthazar , furiously -- `` How dare he intrude upon my privacy ! 
This is one I put in it when I engaged with you to send Don Philip by a short cut to paradise . 
Prepare me the paper that proves mine and Juana 's freedom , and when you give me these , I shall take out my knot here , and Don Philip will fly off to join the angels in paradise ; thatwill save you from finding him in your way hereafter . '' 
What security do you give me , when I have slain Don Philip , that you will do for me what you have promised ? '' 
`` Pooh , pooh , Señor ; that sort of talk wo n't do between us!It 's you that are the outlaw , not me ! 
I am to kill Don Philip on youraccount , not on mine ; because youhate him , and not from any hate that I bear the Portuguese . 
Were I to kill him on my ownaccount , Ishould be outlawed : killing him for you , it 's youract , not mine , and you ` rethe outlaw ! 
The cheeks of the Don flushed crimson , and he hastily drew his sword half-way from the sheath . 
The pardon procured , the Don prepared the legal discharge of Mateo , and his sister , from the service of his ward . 
He signed the latter papers as her guardian , and , as usual , without consulting her . 
He was to have met him in the thicket , where we have already beheld their interview , but the knight waited for him in vain ; and , after lingering for an hour , becoming impatient , he took his way towards the summer-house , and thence proceeded to the dwelling . 
While at the summer-house , the Don had divested himself of the papers with which he had proposed to meet the outlaw . 
As it was in this neighborhood that he still calculated to encounter him , he thought to have them always ready by leaving them there . 
He fastened them up securely in a huge chest which he kept in a closet . 
For the present , he was content to know where they were hidden . 
He preferred that their loss should not be discovered until the last moment , when the Don should be ready for departure to Florida , and he to his native mountains . 
He had much yet to do in Havana , and did not care to be disturbed again by the alguazils , while pursuing his pleasant occupations . 
He continued in the employment of Olivia ; and her present purposes , steadily pursued , with a mind now profoundly concentrated on the one object , found him enough to do . 
In carrying out his purposes , Don Balthazar , as we have seen , had resolved to send his niece to the plantation , -- the hacienda , or country-seat of his ward at Matelos , -- where her large estates chiefly lay . 
This was in order to his own security . 
Here , he might best practise against her peace -- perhaps her life . 
De Sinolar was his creature , -- silly creature , as we have seen , -- vain and weak , -- who feared the Don , and whom the latter regarded as a useful mask to shelter his own proceedings . 
The expedition once departed , carrying with it Don Philip , and the uncle was satisfied to trust somewhat to time . 
Time might effect his object , and if not -- the dagger ! 
But the spectre lives and moves , -- and serves!It is Don Philip that charges away in front -- away ! 
Don Philip was on the alert , and was not found napping even at that early hour . 
He was busy brushing up his armor ; condensing his wardrobe into the smallest possible compass ; preparing his steed and furniture ; for transfer to one of the caravels where a place had been appointed him ; and adjusting his affairs , in general , for that removal which had now become inevitable . 
Don Philip met the outlaw with a grave , but gentle welcome ; spoke and looked him kindly ; and asked what he could do for him . 
The whole scene came back to both parties as they met ; and , as the gloom darkened on the visage of Don Philip , the mind of Mateo became agitated and confused , in a way wholly unwonted with the rough , wild , half-savage character of the Mestizo.But he plucked up resolution to reply , and in tones as simple and unconstrained as possible . 
`` Well , Señor , it 's not so much what you can do for me , as what I can do for you ! 
-- You 've been wanting a page or squire , Señor , '' said the outlaw , `` and you have n't got one yet ? '' 
-- '' `` I canprovide you with a Page , Señor ; not a servant ; a young lad , a kinsman , a nephew of my own ; brown like myself , but the child of a free woman of the mountains ; who has heard of you , and would like to see a little of the world , and of armies , under such a brave leader ; but he ca n't be bought . 
He 's the son of a free woman , Señor , as I tell you , and will serve you for love , not for money ; and will bring his own horse , and provide his own means ; and will only expect to be treated kindly , and to be taught the art of war ; and -- '' `` Will he submit -- will he obey me ? '' 
`` Certainly , as a page , Señor : and will be happy to do so . 
I can answer for all that , Señor . 
He will do for you , I am sure , as no bondman would ever do -- will be faithful always -- and be very glad when you employ him , for he is pleased with you , Señor , -- he has seen you often , and admires you very much ! 
He longs to go with you , and has n't let me rest , for the last week , for urging me to come to you and make the offer . 
He do n't want pay -- he has means of his own , as I told you : his mother , a free woman of the mountains , Señor , has property ; cattle and horses ; and though the boy is quite young , and slightly built , yet he has health and strength , and can stand a good deal of trouble and fatigue ; all he wants is to be with you ; -- that is , to see war under your lead ; -- and as he 's the son of a free woman , Señor , I thought it right , perhaps , that he should have such desires , and should learn from the best teacher . '' 
`` Bring him to me , Mateo . '' 
`` He is here at hand -- I could not well keep him away , Señor . 
He is soanxious ! '' 
`` Yes , Señor , I raised him myself . 
He walks like the wind , and will go like an eagle to the charge . 
Suppose you step out , and look at him closely , Señor . 
You must love a fine animal , Señor , and this is one for a brave man to love , without feeling ashamed of his choice . '' 
But the face of Mateo was innocent of any occult meaning ; and Philip showed that he felt , simply by an increased solemnity of voice and visage . 
He followed the outlaw out to where the horse stood , still held by the boy in waiting . 
`` He is certainly a very fine animal , Mateo . 
`` See what a chest he carries , Señor , broad like a castle . 
And , look at his eye ! 
And he 's young , but a quarter over four , Señor ; and he comes of a breed that lasts till forty . '' 
`` Unless no shaft from an Apalachian savage cuts him short ; '' was the remark of Vasconselos , sadly made , as he turned to bestow a look upon the boy . 
There seemed to be a new interest springing into the eyes of Philip as he gazed . 
The former closed his eyes , involuntarily , under the steadfast glance of the knight ; and the outlaw hurriedly said : `` The boy is bashful , Señor : he has never before stood in the presence of a great captain , or a knight , or even a fine gentleman . 
`` Yes , Juan , Señor ; his mother 's name is Juana , a free woman of the mountains , Señor -- '' `` His face reminds me very much of one that I have seen somewhere . 
I have certainly seen him before , Mateo . '' 
`` Never him , Señor , -- never ! '' 
`` Juan has never been to the city before last week ; and you , I know , have never been into the mountains , Señor . 
He is a mountain boy , your Excellency , -- son of a free woman of the mountains . 
He has seen you , but you could not have seen himbefore . 
But what 's in a likeness , Señor ? 
You never could have seen our Juan 's face before , Señor . '' 
he is strong , Señor . 
His looks are deceptive . 
He comes of a hardy race . 
He can stand fire and water . '' 
`` But he seems unusually timid . 
Art thou sure that he has courage ? 
Will he look danger in the eye ? '' 
He looked up -- he looked Don Philip in the eye , and without blenching . 
He is capable of flashes , Mateo . '' 
`` Ay , and of fire and flame too , Señor ! 
Give him time , your Excellency , and you will see the blaze . 
But he 's naturally bashful when you 're looking on him . 
It 's not a bad sign in a boy , Señor . '' 
But I like his looks , Mateo . 
that I can promise , Señor . 
He 's as faithful to the man he loves as if he were a woman . '' 
`` Pity but he were more so ! '' 
I can answer for Juan ; for his courage , his hardihood , not less than his honesty , Señor . 
He 's a boy of good principles . '' 
`` Let him answer for himself ! 
The boy evidently trembled : but promptly enough , in a rather hoarse voice , answered -- `` Yes , Señor ! 
`` He has a very peculiar voice , Mateo . '' 
`` Yes , Señor , strange enough to those who heard him only a year ago . 
Now , his voice is getting the cross ` twixt man and boy . 
But I reckon , Señor , we all underwent some such change about the same time in our lives . '' 
Juan.Yes , Señor , but if one would be a soldier , it 's a part of his education to taste these things . 
There is a certain hardening necessary before one can be a soldier Juan.This campaign will give it me , Señor . 
Mateo.You see , your Excellency , his heart is set on being a soldier . 
`` True ; but one does not begin training for it , in the midst of a campaign , '' quoth Philip , not heeding the outlaw . 
Juan.You forget , Señor , that I was bred among the mountains . 
Juan.It is that of war , Señor , and I am not afraid to die . 
Bethink you of the terrors of the strife ; the savage arrows , -- his cannibal sacrifices , -- his bloody rages , -- the scalping knife , -- the fiery torture ! 
Juan.Yet youare to encounter them , Señor Philip.I am a man , boy , accustomed to the encounter ; and life is to me of little worth . 
Juan.And I have none , Señor . 
you do n't know Juan , Señor . 
He was always a saddish sort of boy ; loving the glooms ; the dark woods ; the lonely rocks ! 
He never played like other boys ! 
He was never likeother boys . 
Philip.But he will outgrow this sadness , Mateo . 
Juan.You allow nothing for the will , Señor , -- the heart -- nothing -- Philip.Every thing , boy ! 
Mateo.That he is , your Excellency . 
It 's his great folly , Señor ; I 've told him so a thousand times . 
For what can his ambition do , for him , a mestizo?Let him be as brave as Francis Pizarro , and as wise as Hernan Cortez , who 'll give himcommand of armies , and authority in counsel ? 
Mateo.If he lives much longer , Señor , he 'll grow much older . 
And if he do n't live long , he 'll only be more sure of being young all the days of his life . 
`` Try me , Señor , '' murmured the boy , in very low but earnest tones , not daring to look up . 
But Philip was not permitted to see his face . 
`` 'T is not with fear , Señor ! '' 
`` I am provided with a cross-bow , Señor , and can shoot . 
take me with you , Señor ! '' 
He dared not , at that moment , look up in the face of Don Philip . 
`` I will take thee with me , boy , and fight thy battles , if need be ; will keep thee as much from harm as possible , and share with thee my spoils -- '' `` I ask nothing , Señor ! '' 
no , Señor ! '' 
Remember that , Señor . 
She has provided him , as you see , with a good horse . 
She has given him a well-filled pouch besides ! 
she has made all provisions for his support and equipment ; and I am commissioned to get even the needful weapons and armor . 
So you see , Señor , he is to go with you for love , not for money . '' 
`` I will love thee , Señor -- I dolove thee ! '' 
While Mateo , making his way to the hacienda of the knight , was thus soliloquizing , the haughty Don was savagely meditating , in his turn , upon some of the disappointments which he had experienced . 
So long as she lived , Philip would probably be silent , in respect to that which would hurt her reputation . 
The question troubled the Don , since , from his own conjectures , he vainly sought an answer . 
While he meditated these doubts , an aideof the Adelantado arrived , and brought him despatches from Don Hernan , which required his early presence in the city . 
`` He is here , Señor ; '' she exclaimed , -- `` the villain , Mateo ; the outlaw ; the murderer ; the robber of the old woman ! 
He is here , Señor , in the groves ; he is even now gone to the garden house ! '' 
In the twinkling of an eye , with a rare agility , which , in the outlaw , was a possession fully equal to his wonderful strength , he suddenly slipped from under the grasp of the Don , and , before the latter dreamed of his danger , had changed positions with him ; had thrown himself upon him , and forced him down upon the chest , with his head buried among its recesses . 
did n't I see , with my own eyes , just as Don Philip saw ? 
`` The boy hath a heart , '' quoth Philip to himself ; -- `` he can feel . 
If Don Philip showed himself wakeful and restless , and strode the deck at times throughout the night , the boy watched him the while , and sometimes followed his footsteps ; though always at a distance . 
It is enough , here to say , that these conditions , by which kindred spirits seek , meet , and link themselves with one another , were all found in the respect of Don Philip and the boy Juan ; so that a look , a tone , a gesture , of one or the other , did not fail to make itself fully understood by both , and to command at the same time the most genial sympathy . 
It might be that , had Philip been of the other sex , these traits would have proved less imposing in the estimation of the page ! 
With whom else should Philip commune ? 
Never was noble knight more desolate of soul , and lone of place , than he . 
Often did the eyes of Philip rest searchingly upon the bronze features of the boy , with a curious and tender interest . 
But Philip spoke nothing of the thoughts which this conduct occasioned : yet he did not the less continue to examine the features of the youth ; and he found a strange secret pleasure in this study . 
Nor did he , because of the study , continue the less to teach , and to commune with the young mind which he was pleased to instruct . 
The boy knew none , of all in the army , but Philip , and he , with few friends in the expedition , had , as it happened , none of them in the same vessel with himself . 
`` Truly , we are thankful for your zeal and wisdom , Don Philip , though with some experience of our own , in the warfare with the heathen , and some small reputation gained in other wars , it might be held reasonable to suppose that I should omit none of the precautions which are needful to the safety of my followers when embarking on the shores of the Floridian . '' 
Philip pointed out these signals to the page . 
`` See you , Juan , '' said he , -- `` already the red men have taken alarm . 
But the eyes of Philip were scarcely set upon the boy as he addressed him . 
`` And are we , even now , to land upon the shores of the Apalachian , Señor ? '' 
`` Señor , when shall I be fitted , if I never begin ? 
I shall be with you , Señor ; if you please , I will go on shore with you to-night . '' 
`` It is here , Señor . '' 
now this will give him range to feed , yet keep him fast ; but an armful of these young reeds , with their fresh leaves upon them , will help his appetite . 
`` Surely , Señor , '' said Juan , `` these quiet woods harbor no enemies . '' 
With a strange tremor in his limbs , and vacant look which did not escape the eye of Philip , the boy took his seat before him , but scarcely nigh . 
When they had supped , Philip said -- `` Now , Juan , thou wilt watch while I sleep . 
But with this scarcely audible movement , Philip showed himself restless . 
The boy receded , and gathering up his cross-bow , raised it to the level of the eye , and ranged it from side to side , upon the open spaces between the trees in front . 
The face of Philip was still averted . 
Then suddenly , he started , with a strange confusion , as he fancied he heard the voice of Don Philip . 
This , for a moment , aroused him ; but looking down , he saw Don Philip still sleeping ; and , satisfied to see thus , he was conscious of little more after this for some time , though he might have been just as watchful as before . 
But very soon after this , Don Philip really awakened . 
He found the boy fast asleep , with his arm thrown over his neck . 
He gently unloosed it , and rose . 
He rose suddenly , as if startled ; seized his sword , buckled it to his side , and caught up the cross-bow of the page . 
He stole forward a few paces , and seemed to listen ; then returned to his place , and laid the bow again by the side of the sleeping Juan . 
Philip patted his neck affectionately , then bade him rise , and proceeded with the utmost care and silence to put on his war harness , his saddle and bridle , and have him in readiness for instant use . 
But he did not loose the animal ; simply shortened his halter that he might not again lie down . 
Philip saw no sentinels ; heard no guards relieved ; knew nothing of the cautionary steps which Don Vasco Porcallos might be supposed to have taken . 
It might be that some wild beast had found his way to where the boy slept -- the panther 's cry is like that of a child or girl , -- and , with excited pulses , and the blood rapidly coursing through his veins , Philip darted back to the place where the boy was left . 
`` Follow me , '' cried Philip to the boy , and his stern accents , by enforcing obedience , in some degree disarmed Juan of his terrors ; at all events , he obeyed . 
And the light form , assisted by the powerful arm of Philip , sprang at once upon the steed . 
The spur was instantly driven into the beast 's sides , and he was made to go ! 
A hundred naked savages darted out of the wood through which he went , and fled before his path . 
The knight shouted aloud , in the language of Castile ; then blew a wild flourish upon his bugle , and joyed to hear the answers of the Spaniards from sundry quarters . 
`` No , Señor , thanks to your care , I have no hurt . '' 
`` Yes , Señor , but it is not now with fear . 
Señor , thou left ` st me to watch , and I slept . 
`` My arm over thy neck , Señor ! 
But the boy turned away without speaking , and little did Philip fancy how wildly the tides were rising and falling in his bosom . 
Of course , Philip had not forgotten what Mateo had told him , that Juan , the son of a free woman of the mountains , had been carefully nurtured , and had not been wanting in such education as could be procured by money , in such a region , during that early period . 
But , though such exhibitions surprised Philip , quite as much as they delighted him , yet his moods and present employments were not of a sort to suffer him much speculation upon them . 
He was , after a while , quite content to enjoy their benefits , in the solace which they brought , without questioning their source ; and he needed all this solace . 
He was still alone , and still , in spite of his services and valor , quite as much as before an object of jealousy among the Spaniards . 
Philip was a frequent volunteer when perilous or adventurous service was required . 
It was in this way , mostly , that he exercised his skill in arms , save when summoned to the special assistance of the Adelantado , to whom he was nominally an aide ; but this rarely happened except when captives or embassies were to be examined , and interpretations made from their language . 
He , however , sometimes failed to understand the tongues of foreign tribes , and thus it was that Philip was needed . 
But for this , his uses in the army , according to the estimates seemingly put upon them by his superior , were of little moment . 
Philip felt this treatment , and his boy showed that he felt it also . 
They sat together at the same repast ; Juan retired behind his lord , and speaking with him thus , except when , at times , as finally was frequently the case , Philip bade him to sit beside him , or before him -- a proceeding which the knight adopted , the better to encourage the boy , and to overcome his excessive shyness . 
There was a sad simplicity in both their natures , -- a grave tenderness of soul , which still further helped to cement their intimacy ; and it was soon felt -- by Philip , at least , -- that , in this new and seemingly incongruous relationship , the peculiar pangs and disappointments which he had experienced in Cuba , were fast losing the sharpness and severity of their sting . 
He sometimes wondered at himself that he so much craved the companionship of the boy ; but he was too much pleased with the enjoyment of it to question its sources . 
When they were apart he mused upon his fondness with curiosity . 
Why should he , a knight of Portugal , feel such sympathy for this Moorish urchin ? 
It was in vain that he recalled the boy 's devotion to himself , -- his goodness of heart , his gentleness of mood , the quickness of his mind , the delicacy of his fancy , and his general intelligence . 
These did not suffice to account for the hold upon his affections which the boy had taken . 
It did not finally escape the notice of Philip ; but it did not occasion his surprise or curiosity . 
Had he been watched , it would have been seen that he sought to avoid the eyes of Don Balthazar -- that he was somewhat agitated when they met suddenly -- that he spoke with a slight tremor of voice in the hearing of the Don , and especially when , as was sometimes the case , he was required to answer his demands . 
There could not be any cordiality between them ; and , such being the case , why Don Balthazar should seek him , unless with reasons of necessity , was a frequent subject of Philip 's surprise . 
At such times , he always drew an unfavorable augury from his coming . 
`` He means mischief , '' said he aloud , one evening , after the departure of Don Balthazar from the place where he had laid himself down to rest . 
but the words did not reach the ears of Philip , and when he looked round , and called again to the page , he was nowhere to be seen . 
Ere he returned that night , Vasconselos was asleep . 
Each day gradually contributed to unfold the increasing dependence of Don Philip and his page upon one another ; and both were watched , though neither perhaps saw to what extent , by the serpent eyes of Don Balthazar de Alvaro . 
On such occasions there was an evident distance of manner in the bearing of De Soto , amounting almost to repugnance , which increased the regrets of Philip that he had ever joined the expedition . 
His mortification at having done so , would have been unendurable , but for a certain indifference of mood , which rendered him reckless what became of him , -- reckless of all things , indeed ; and made him just as well satisfied to rove without a purpose , and fight without a cause , as to sleep beneath his tree , when the day had closed in exhaustion . 
Latterly , his feeling grew less indifferent . 
He seemed to be slowly acquiring a new interest in life . 
He was conscious of more impulse , of aim , and objects , vague , indeed , enough , and which he did not seek to pursue , but which served to show that life for him still had its resources , even its attractions , and was not wholly denied an object . 
But if the question as to that object was asked of Don Philip , he would have been without an answer . 
Enough that under existing circumstances , he could find his associations still endurable ; -- without an object in life , he could yet find life not wholly a burden and a curse ! 
Now , -- speaking of things without regard to persons -- the Spaniards were quite as treacherous as the Floridians ; and it was with a bitter smile and sneer that Philip , commenting upon the small claims of the former upon his fidelity , said to Juan : -- `` It is liar against liar , serpent against serpent ! 
The latter clung to his victim , and would very soon have finished his work , but for the quick movement of Philip , who darted to the rescue , and passed his sword through the body of the savage , while , tiger-like , he was tearing the neck of the Adelantado . 
The furious savage died without a groan , glaring , with fellest rage , upon his enemies , in the very moment when his last breath was passing . 
The people of Vitachuco , thirteen hundred warriors , the flower of his nation , perished in the affair , or were butchered after it . 
He , accordingly , thanked Philip in stately language , hidalgo-fashion , in the presence of all his troops . 
But his pride kept him still in memory of that haughty reserve of the Portuguese cavalier , which had so offended his amour propreat first ; and as Philip , while as courteously receiving the compliment of the Adelantado , in a style not dissimilar from that in which it was couched , abated nothing of his own dignity , it followed , that the debt which De Soto felt , of gratitude , was rather irksome and burdensome , than grateful to that haughty cavalier . 
But for hisconstant labors , it might have been that what was naturally noble in the bosom of the Adelantado , would have asserted itself to the extent of doing full justice to the merits of Philip ; and giving full exercise to his own proper courtesy and honor . 
As it was , the intercourse between the knight of Portugal and the Spanish Chief , though more courteous and gracious than before , was scarcely more cordial ; and Philip remained , as before , companioned only by the page Juan , who clung to him more closely than ever , and grew daily more and more necessary to his affections . 
Philip had traversed this very region . 
He took the place of Ortiz ; negotiated with the Cassique of Cofa ; and once more had the satisfaction , if any it were , of seeing the eyes of the Adelantado turned upon him with favor . 
But the sad face of Philip never once changed through the whole conference . 
He was gentle and respectful , but calm , subdued , and too melancholy to note how flattering to himself were the looks of the beautiful Cassique . 
Juan Ortiz , the former interpreter , too , was among the persons who thought the princess was quite too gracious in her bearing to a poor knight of Portugal , when an Adelantado of the Castilian was present ; and De Soto himself more than once looked on with cloudy visage , as he beheld the smiles given to Philip , which he thought were properly due only to himself . 
`` What says she , Don Philip ? '' 
It was with a blush that Philip felt the necessity of evading , or suppressing , the truth . 
`` Thou art right , '' was the reply of the Adelantado , and he approached more closely and bowed his head . 
Slowly and reluctantly still , but obeying the sign made by Don Philip , the princess cast the heavy strands over the shoulders of the Adelantado , who , seizing her hand as she did so , passed a rich gold ring , with a ruby , over one of her fingers . 
But Philip retired to sad , rather than sweet thoughts and fancies . 
That night , as he sat at his evening meal beneath a tree , with Juan in attendance , he was unusually sad and spiritless . 
`` Pardon me , Señor , but I meant not to offend ; '' answered the page with becoming humility -- `` but -- does my Lord think her so very beautiful ? '' 
`` But these beauties do not suit the better tastes of a refined people , Señor . 
But , I am silent , noble Philip , as they call thee ; -- silent ! 
It is ecause I would not harm thee : because I would not see thee depart , Philip . '' 
Philip beheld her with a sad and drooping eye . 
Better not provoke his anger . 
He hath a power of which thy people know nothing : to which they must succumb in strife , or perish . 
He hath but little reason to remain here much longer , and will most likely depart ere the coming moon ! 
`` But thouneed ` st not leave Cofachiqui , Philip . 
Before Philip could reply , his page Juan , with aspect gloomy and anxious , suddenly entered the apartment , and after a hurried obeisance , said -- `` Señor , your presence is needed without . 
To the surprise equally of his own soldiers and the red men , he seized a cudgel and began to belabor the Spaniards , seconded in the operation most heartily by Philip , who had reached the scene in season for this proper , if not pleasant exercise . 
`` We would hear from Don Philip , '' said De Soto , with a smile which had in it something of a sneer . 
Philip quietly and promptly answered . 
`` Well , but admitting the truth of all this , Señor Don Philip , '' responded De Soto , rather impatiently , -- `` the question is , what are we to do , -- how repair the evil -- how put ourselves in security against such mischance as had so nearly befallen us to-day ? '' 
The Princess Coçalla has grown haughty and indifferent , Señor Don Philip , to all among us , but yourself . '' 
Philip regarded the savage smile upon the countenance of the Adelantado , with a quiet , cold , immovable look . 
He did not attempt to answer . 
`` And I deem it a base and horrid policy , Señor ! '' 
The pale cheeks of Philip reddened , but he was silent . 
And he drowsed while watching : but Philip slept not . 
He could not sleep because of too much thought , and long after midnight he arose , and he muttered to himself -- `` It shall not be ! 
And he stole forth even as he spoke , carrying his sword beneath his arm , and he made his way , amidst the dim woods , guided only by the starlight , and certain scattered fires of the village , until he was lost in the thickets that lay between the Spanish encampment and the grounds which environed the abode of the Princess . 
He knew not that the only half-sleeping Juan , aroused by his exclamation , had started to his feet , and caught up a weapon also , and was following stealthily upon his footsteps . 
you do not suspect Don Philip ? '' 
`` He is a favorite with the Princess . '' 
`` But I should think her no great favorite with him . 
He seems to treat her with great reserve , if not coldness . '' 
`` But would he dare to play us false ! '' 
You are no doubt right in the precaution ; though , let me find this Knight of Portugal playing me false , and -- '' The threat was unspoken , or was sufficiently expressed in the angry gesture , and the heavy stroke with which , with clenched fist , he smote the rude table at which the parties were seated . 
In a little while after this , Don Balthazar took his leave . 
He proceeded almost instantly to collect a select body of his followers , all armed , for the capture of the Princess Coçalla . 
He had to move with all precautions , rout up soldiers who were sleeping , and hunt up others who were scattered ; and this brought him to a tolerably late hour in the night . 
He was conducted silently through the green glades , and amidst the dark avenues of thicket ; the boy Juan stealthily and closely following , unnoticed by Philip , and permitted by the red men , as a matter of course , as he was the attendant of the master . 
A brief space , and Philip was admitted to an antechamber , a great hall , indeed , at one side of which stood a maiden with a blazing torch . 
But a few moments had elapsed , after Philip 's entrance into the hall , when the princess made her appearance . 
`` Philip ! '' 
She had learned to call his name very prettily -- `` Philip ! '' 
Why comes Philip to me now ? 
Would he make his home with the red warriors of the forest ? 
Philip shall be a chief for Cozalla . '' 
-- And yet -- '' speaking quickly -- `` Will Philip go with me to my lodge in the great forests ? 
Will he become a warrior of Cofachiqui ? 
Say , Philip , -- wilt thou go with me , and find a lodge among my people -- and become a chief -- thegreat chief -- the ` well-beloved of Cofachiqui ? ' 
They shall fight these Spaniards -- they shall fall upon them , and slay them all -- all but thee , Philip . 
She was resolved not to fly , unless -- and she turned again to the knight -- `` Will not Philip go with Coçalla to the great forests of her people , and be a chief of Cofachiqui ? '' 
Philip understood all that they spoke , though in low tones , to their queen . 
But the princess grew unreasonable ; still recurring , at the close of her speech , to the one burden , in the appeal to Philip -- `` to find a lodge among , and be a chief over her people -- thechief ! '' 
She said to him reproachfully -- `` Does Philip bid me go from him where I can see him no more ? 
Does Philip say to Coçalla -- let the forests grow between us , so that our eyes shall never meet again ? 
Philip ! '' 
`` Thou art every thing , Philip , to Coçalla . 
Thou shalt be a chief of my people , Philip , -- thou shalt be the only chief for Coçalla . '' 
`` See you not , Señor , that unless you tear yourself away from her , she will not depart ? 
Already Don Balthazar is gathering his troop to surround the village of the princess . 
cried Juan , in quick , eager accents , as Philip lingered -- `` Now is the moment , Señor . 
said Philip . 
`` She has had time enough for escape if she willed it ; but methinks she would rather be a captive were Don Philip the jailer , than be the free Princess of all these forests . '' 
Philip noted it , but his mind was too full of anxiety , in respect to the escape of Coçalla , to dwell upon minor matters . 
he ejaculated . 
`` This princess seems very precious to the Señor ! '' 
responded Philip , somewhat sternly ; and Juan shrunk away , as if an arrow had pierced him suddenly in the breast ; and Vasconselos heard no more words from him that night . 
Theeffort of Don Philip had been made in vain . 
More than once he expostulated with Philip upon the risk which he incurred , by his attentions , and strove to alarm his fears ; but he soon found that such suggestions only inspired the knight with audacity . 
`` It is nothing , Señor Don Philip , but the cries of the heathen woman , the Princess of Cofachiqui , who has been seeking to make escape from us , and whom my comrade , Pedro , has just secured . '' 
Philip hurried into the thicket , where Coçalla still struggled with all her might against the brutal assailant . 
She could only murmur , `` Philip , '' and her strength failed her . 
She threw her arms round his neck , and cried -- `` Philip ! 
O Philip ! '' 
She stood mournfully looking at him for a while , then waved her hand to him , and cried -- `` Philip ! 
Philip ! '' 
He disappeared in the opposite woods ; and she turned away , with clasped hands , and moving with slow footsteps , bending form , and a very mournful aspect , murmuring as she went , the one word `` Philip . '' 
It is not improbable that when he was found by the ruffian , Pedro , who fled from the rapier of Don Philip , conveniently in waiting in a lonely lodge on the edge of the forest , that he himself had prompted his myrmidons to their brutality , and that he had other passions to gratify , not less wild and intense than that of revenge . 
They were prepared to affirm it with due solemnities ; and , thus armed , Don Balthazar smote one hand with the other , and exclaimed exultingly , -- `` Now , Señor Don Philip , I have thee at extremity . 
He , too , had certain evidence to give in respect to the treason of Don Philip -- for this was the serious charge which Don Balthazar was preparing to bring against our knight of Portugal . 
He knew but too well in what way to act upon the enormous self-esteem of the Adelantado , already sufficiently provoked with Don Philip , and by what subtle artifices of suggestion to open to his eyes the most vast and various suspicions of the guilt of the man he sought to destroy . 
Juan , the page , would have followed him ; but the summons of the Don had entreated him to a secret conference , and Philip gave the boy in charge of his lodge , and commanded him to remain where he was , awaiting his return . 
The quarters of Don Balthazar might have been half a mile from those of Philip ; but the latter took horse to compass the interval . 
He went in armor also . 
But Philip was not at his ease . 
His instincts taught him to dread treachery . 
He knew Don Balthazar too well to put faith in his smooth accents . 
He knew that the latter must hate , and would strive to destroy him . 
He plucked the knight by his sleeve , and whispered -- `` Beware , Señor : -- this summons -- this man -- '' Philip laid his hand gently on the boy 's mouth , and said , also in a whisper -- `` The good knight must be bold , Juan , and being so , must always beware that he is not toobold . 
Señor Don Philip , suffer that I follow thee now -- that I go with thee to this meeting with thy enemy . '' 
They mounted horse instantly , and went towards the village ; but scarcely had they entered the narrow streets , when Vasconselos found himself surrounded by a score or two of horse , from the centre of whom advanced a Captain , who said , in stern accents -- `` Señor Don Philip de Vasconselos , some time of Elvas in Portugal , and now in the service of His Most Catholic Majesty , the King of Spain , & c. , I arrest thee , by orders of his Excellency , Don Hernando de Soto , Governor of Cuba , and Adelantado of Florida , under a charge of High Treason . 
exclaimed Don Philip indignantly . 
Resistance , -- even if Don Philip had been disposed to offer any -- would have been perfectly idle . 
He submitted with quiet dignity . 
he answered , quietly yielding his sword -- `` conduct me to the Adelantado . '' 
`` I am here , under bonds , as a criminal , Don Hernan de Soto , '' spoke Philip , in clear , manly tones , his eye fixed brightly the while upon the face of the Adelantado : -- `` I demand to know of what I am accused , and that my accuser shall be set before me ! '' 
Philip smiled scornfully , in a bitter mood , as he listened to certain portions of the speech ; and the cheeks of De Soto reddened as he noticed the expression . 
`` Thou art charged , Philip de Vasconselos , by the noble Señor , Don Balthazar de Alvaro , with having betrayed to the Princess of Cofachiqui the secret councils of the conference , when thou wast present as a member , and when it was resolved that the safety of the army required that we should take that person into close custody . 
`` I hear , Señor . 
`` It is thy offence , Señor , and not theirs , which is now before this tribunal . '' 
`` But we should have been allowed to judge of the propriety of thy arguments , Señor . 
`` None , Señor ; since I see that the few gentlemen who have best knowledge of my nature and performances , are not in this assembly ; it will be for those to answer to their consciences , by whom they have been sent away at this juncture . '' 
De Soto quickly said -- `` Speak , Señor , and he shall be brought . 
`` Nay , Señor , I know not that it will need or avail . 
The Señor Don Philip did not signify any wish upon the subject . '' 
`` And how should I have done so , your Excellency , '' answered Philip , with a scornful look at Don Balthazar , though addressing De Soto , `` when I was not suffered to suspect the strait in which I stood -- when I was beguiled from my lodgings , upon false pretences of kindness and counsel , and seized without warning or summons , by a troop of cavalry at midnight ? 
`` I trust , Señor , '' said De Soto to Don Balthazar , `` that thou hast not proceeded in any way in this matter unbecoming a true knight . '' 
Not that this Moorish boy could serve thee , Señor , for his evidence could not make weight against the better testimony of Christian witnesses . '' 
He advanced calmly and firmly as he spoke , and throwing down his glove at the feet of Don Balthazar , exclaimed , sotto voce , but still loud enough to be heard by others than the person addressed -- `` Lift it , Señor , if thou wouldst not be known for the dastard , as I know thee for the villain and the knave ! '' 
`` Nay , Señor , thy glove is no longer such as an honorable knight and gentleman may lift without stain upon his fingers . 
`` What should I say , Señor ? 
`` And you , Señor , '' replied the other boldly , `` assured as you deem yourself of the powers which control your will and passions , are yet serving the passions of others -- passions which make thee as fearfully mine enemy , as if thy deliberate will and thy own bitter prejudices and dislike had made thee so . 
It is possible that he somewhat suspected that there was some truth in the charge of malignity and slander which Philip had brought against Don Balthazar . 
He had long been aware of the dislike which they mutually felt for each other . 
He said to the latter -- `` Verily , Don Balthazar , this knight of Portugal hath bitter thoughts of thee . '' 
`` Grant it be so , Señor ; -- there is enough , besides , in the confession which he made to suffice for his conviction . '' 
He hath confessed to the betrayal of our purpose to the princess , and to the charge of assault upon our officers , and her rescue . '' 
Philip was left to his fate -- the fangs of the wolf , the scalping-knife of the savage , or the crueller death , by remorseless hunger ! 
He could hear the distant music , gradually growing fainter : finally , the faint bugle-note advised him of the movement of the rear-guard ; and soon , this too melted away in the great world of space , and he remained with silence , in the depths of the Apalachian solitudes ! 
Thearmy of the Adelantado proceeded on its march along the waters of the Coosaw , but Don Balthazar de Alvaro returned , with his detachment of cavalry , to the village of Chiaha . 
To him was allotted the duty of bringing up the rear-guard , with the heavy baggage ; and he was required to remain in Chiaha until the smaller bodies which had been sent forth on exploring expeditions , under Nuno de Tobar , Andres de Vasconselos and others , should return . 
He did not , himself , attach much importance to what he thought the fantastic notions of honor and shame , which were taught by the laws of chivalry ; and , were it not that the punishment of Don Philip implied his utter banishment from the army , and his almost certain death , in the condition in which he had been left , from the fierce fangs of the wild beast , or the reckless arrows of the savage , he might have been still ill at ease in respect to some of his securities . 
In truth , he still had some lurking apprehensions that Philip de Vasconselos was yet , in some way , his evil genius ; destined yet to re-appear , and confront him with that danger which had so long haunted his imagination ! 
The soldier on duty before his quarters , asked , `` Shall I mount and follow you , Señor ? '' 
`` It is he -- it is Philip ! '' 
`` It is Philip ! '' 
`` Señor ! '' 
`` Señor Philip ! '' 
`` No , Señor , but -- '' It was with very great effort that the boy was enabled to say these latter words , which he did with husky and tremulous accents , the sounds dying away in his throat . 
the Señor Philip -- Don Philip de Vasconselos ! 
Speak , Señor , tell me what hath happened to my master ? 
Where is he ? 
Hath he been wounded -- is he -- '' `` Oh ! 
I shall give thee lodgings as near my own as thou hast had to those of Don Philip . 
Only tell me , Señor , where is Señor Philip -- Don Philip -- '' `` Señor Philip -- Don Philip ! 
nay , why not say to me , as thou hast doubtless said a thousand times to him -- Philip -- Philip -- my Philip -- dear , dear Philip ! 
And by what sweet name did our Philip requite thee , my gentle Moor ? '' 
Thou dost not tell me , Señor , that my master -- '' `` No ! 
`` Señor , for the love of the Holy Virgin , tell me truly of my Lord ! '' 
Thy lord , thy master , thy Portuguese Don , hath paid the penalty of his crimes -- he hath been disgraced from knighthood , stript of sword and armor , his spurs hewn from his heels , his neck haltered to a tree , and beaten with blows of the executioner , he is left to the storms of heaven and the hatchet of the Apalachian ! '' 
One but makes way for another ; and I am instead of thy Philip ; with all his rights and privileges , my sweet Moor . 
`` Señor ! 
I must go and seek Don Philip ! '' 
Thou wouldst find his bones only . 
He hath given rare picking to the panther . '' 
`` Señor , I must go ! '' 
`` Señor , I know not what thou mean ` st or intend ` st ; but thou surely canst not design to keep me from the good knight , who hath been my kind friend and benefactor , -- my preserver frequently , -- in this weary march through the country of the Apalachian ? 
Let me , as in duty bound , go to the service of the good knight , Don Philip , and succor him , if I may , and wait on him as I should ! 
Thou hast slept with him beneath the same tree ; in the same shady thicket ; under the same tent ; in the same hovel of the red man ; and the same considerate handmaiden , the night , hath drawn the curtains gently , to conceal the loving embraces of the gallant Don and his Moorish page ! '' 
`` Touch me not , Señor ! '' 
Philip , thou shalt be mine now , and forever , and a great chief among my people ! '' 
-- and he cries hoarsely as he spurs the steed -- hoarsely and feebly , -- his voice subsiding to a whisper -- `` But one moment , Philip -- but one moment -- and I am with thee . 
With thee , Philip ! 
To die with thee , Philip -- to die forthee ! 
One moment , Philip -- one moment -- one ! 
Philip , but a moment more ! 
And so muttering , he would behold the amphitheatre once more , wherein De Soto 's knights and soldiers environed the noble victim ; and so seeing , the boy would set on , with driving spur anew , repeating his hoarse whisper in his throat the while -- `` But a moment , Philip -- but a moment ! 
What , do you not hear him call to me ? 
You know his voice . 
He says -- ah ! 
what does he say ! 
Wait but a moment , Señor , -- but a moment -- but a moment ! '' 
Surely , it is Don Philip that he sees , seated upon the ground in front of the canopy , while the red men wander about in the back-ground . 
Señor ! 
Don Philip -- '' The knight looked up for the first time as he heard the cry . 
`` Philip ! '' 
`` Philip ! '' 
Nor was Nuno de Tobar less eagerly aroused than Andres to the necessity of vindicating the fame of Philip , and , if possible , of recovering and restoring him to the army . 
Coçalla and her followers were all well aware of the neighborhood of the Spanish parties sent out in search of Philip -- nay , he himself was not ignorant , and he might possibly have suspected their better motives , knowing as he did that his brother and Nuno de Tobar were at the head of these detachments ; but he now no longer cared to resume a connection with the associates who had abandoned him , and with an expedition whose daily progresses revolted all his human and chivalrous sentiments . 
He now began to feel that he should need the very meanest of his force to carry through the objects of his expedition , and in propitiating the captains who had interested themselves in the case of Philip , the death of Don Balthazar afforded a ready agency . 
He was , in fact , the chief criminal , and De Soto was really but his creature . 
But when he looked on Philip , he saw before him no ordinary warrior . 
He laid his own hand upon his breast , and said , in the Choctaw dialect : -- `` Philip is a warrior . 
He will fight the battles of the great Tuscaluza . 
Will the Cassique say to his warriors -- Go ! 
follow Philip , that we may drive the Spaniards to their homes beyond the sea ? '' 
He added -- `` Philip shall be a great chief of the Alabamous . 
He shall have many warriors to go with him to battle . 
He shall show to the Black warrior of the Alabamous how we may best feed on these Spaniards , and capture the mighty beasts upon which they ride . '' 
Let Philip be clad in the war-paint of the Alabamous , and bring him garments for a chief of the red men . '' 
When Philip had spoken these words , Coçalla threw her arms about his neck . 
He did not return her caresses , but he looked into her face with a tender sadness , which for a moment smoothed the terrible expression from his visage . 
The forest Princess seemed to know that Juan looked not favorably upon the passion which she felt for Philip . 
The page , meanwhile , recoiled from the glance of Tuscaluza , who , as he regarded the intruder , stopped in his walk , exclaiming -- `` Hah ! '' 
Coçalla calmly bade the page enter , and explained his relation with Vasconselos . 
`` It is good , '' replied the Cassique , resuming his walk . 
`` It is good ; but let him go , till one shall come to him and say , ` thy master hath use for thee , ' and his finger conveyed the same directions to the page himself . 
With a sad , longing look towards Philip -- who did not seem to heed him , or , indeed , to heed anything -- Juan turned away , and left the hovel . 
These were presented to Philip , who received them as a matter of course , with something of indifference in his manner , while he stooped carefully and picked up the scarlet robes upon which Tuscaluza had so scornfully trampled . 
These he restored to the Cassique . 
It is enough to mention here that Philip conveyed to the Black Warrior a full idea of the importance to the Spaniards of their horses , and the necessity of capturing them , or slaying them . 
He counselled the latter course as by far the best , but urged , in the meanwhile , that , in the event of a conflict , the scene of action should always be so chosen as to deprive the cavalry of all share in the battle . 
Verily , they were great , and the tender devotion of the Princess to Philip , never suffered them to sleep for a single moment . 
It was still a feminine consideration that restrained him . 
How should his dying eyes meet the anger in those of Philip , were he thus to strike ? 
Tuscaluza had a considerable body of warriors with him at Mauvila -- possibly three or four thousand . 
Philip would have sprung from his steed and encountered him on more equal footing with the battle-axe , but just then the rush behind him required him to guard himself . 
The Spanish knights were upon him . 
Philip gave the rowels to Bajardo . 
He dashed through the thick array . 
Philip looked about him with inquiry . 
The page was behind him carrying bow and arrows , and was covered with the dust and blood of the field . 
`` I saw them as they surrounded thee , Señor , and I could no longer remain away . '' 
Philip smiled sadly on the Moor . 
But when he looked a second time on Coçalla , he beheld that she too had had shared the dangers of the fray . 
She had been more fortunate than Juan , and had been wounded in the arm . 
But it was a wound received in his defence ; and , more fortunate still , it was an arrow from her bow that stuck in the thigh of De Soto himself , giving a painful wound , which would have driven from the field that day any cavalier of merely ordinary courage . 
Philip ! 
brave Philip . '' 
Señor , thou art wounded . '' 
`` Let it remain , '' said Philip , as page and princess , now both excited with fear , proposed to attend the hurt . 
He had pulled out the arrow during the fight , and , pressing the garments upon the wound , had succeeded in stopping the flow of blood . 
Furious with the sanguinary courage of the Mauvilians , conscious of the peril which awaited his own and the fortunes of his army and mortified deeply with the disgrace of his overthrow in the sight of foes and followers , Hernan de Soto only delayed the action long enough to enable his followers to recover from exhaustion . 
`` And I have fallen beneath his lance this day ; and , but for my followers , I had been slain by the very man whom I had doomed to dishonor and left to death ! '' 
But the sight of Andres , and the recollections of the old affectionate intimacy between Tobar and Philip , led him to a prudent secrecy . 
said he to himself . 
Let them once know that Philip lives , and that this is he -- remembering too that he hath been wrongly doomed -- and will they strive so bravely against him ? 
Such were the brief , hurried , and natural , but unspoken thoughts which occurred to the Adelantado , when he beheld his knights enter to receive their orders . 
Philip ! 
`` Why does the page of Philip grow angry ? 
Doth he not love his master ? 
And loving Philip , doth he not see that Coçalla loves him too , and because she loves him , that she watches him , and tends him , and dresses his wounds , and makes his couch of suffering soft and easy ? 
would he have Coçalla to hate Philip ? 
Coçalla will not hate Philip ! 
Coçalla loves Philip with her whole heart . 
She loves nothing , nobody , so well as Philip . '' 
`` Of whom does the Señor speak ! '' 
`` The Señor will remember how little hath been said between us , safe from other ears , since that time . '' 
`` Fear , Señor ! '' 
`` Even then Señor ; that very night ! '' 
-- was it in sudden strife with the red men , that he perished ? '' 
`` No , Señor . '' 
`` He died of dagger stroke , Señor , -- dagger stroke from some unknown hand ! '' 
Philip beheld his emotion , and a new light seemed to gather before his senses . 
`` It was in the chamber of thy own lodge , Señor , that Don Balthazar was slain . '' 
But Philip did not hear . 
He caught the boy in his embrace . 
He released Juan from his embrace as he felt the hand of Coçalla upon his shoulder , and heard her voice in soft murmurs in his ears . 
`` Philip -- is Philip angry with Coçalla ! '' 
`` Philip ! 
Philip ! '' 
Philip eagerly pushed forward , but with the subtle stealthiness of the red man , and taking care always to cover his person from sight . 
There were no guards in attendance ; there was no watch about the lodge of De Soto , and though certain esquires occupied the closed verandah upon the south-west , whom Philip could not see , and whose presence he did not suspect , yet were these as little prepared for danger , or assault ; as were the several groups that lay in the shadows of the trees , and brigantines , or who loitered among the broad avenues of the woods . 
Philip approached his bed-side , and gazed upon the bleached and bloodless features of him whom he had seen in his hour of pride and hope , -- exulting in all the vigor of manhood , -- and in the indulgence of the most exulting hope , and the most eagle-eyed ambition . 
His hand grasped the battle-axe , but the spectacle disarmed his rage . 
He was chilled by the survey . 
For several moments , he gazed in silence upon the foe , whom he had so long destined as the one victim whose death alone could pacify his rage . 
He now scarcely felt this emotion . 
`` And this then , '' he murmured to himself -- `` this is the brilliant cavalier , the haughty warrior , the proud chieftain , the insolent and ambitious Castilian . 
At that moment , the voice of Juan was heard behind him , crying aloud , `` Hasten , Señor Philip -- hasten my lord , they prepare to shoot . '' 
As he reached the shore , he heard the voice of Coçalla , crying -- `` Hither , Philip , hither ! 
Philip ! '' 
Philip ! 
It is a woman who hath followed Philip to the battle . '' 
And Philip greatly wondered , as much at his own blind ignorance , which had kept him so long in darkness , as at the strange revelation , the secret of which he now comprehended in a moment . 
he exclaimed . 
Then Philip interposed , and she lay silent , as he strove to do for her that which she had denied should be done by Coçalla . 
But though the knight bound up the hurt , and strove , with the help of liniments and styptics , which the red men knew well how to use , yet was all his care in vain , -- for the wound bled inwardly , and they soon beheld that the hurt was mortal , and that the life was fast ebbing out of the sweet fountain which it had warmed with such fidelity , and made to glow with so much passion , and such feminine devotion ; and the girl murmured to Philip , speaking of Coçalla , -- `` Let her go hence , for a while , Señor . 
And Philip whispered Coçalla away , and Olivia de Alvaros said -- `` It is well . 
Now , Philip , that I am about to lose thee , let me tell thee how much I love thee . '' 
he said , `` my poor Olivia , it needs not . 
And she answered -- `` But thou knowest not that I am innocent of wrong doing , Philip , and this is what I would show thee . '' 
And she bade him look into her jacket of escaupil , where a packet had been sewn up , which should teach him all her cruel history ; how she had been wronged , but how she was innocent ; how she had been dishonored , but how she was an unwilling and unconscious victim to the base and cruel arts of her brutal kinsman . 
She died in the arms of Philip ; but she bade that Coçalla should turn away her face , and leave the spot , ere the parting moment came . 
Then she bade that Philip should lift her from the rushes , and when he did so , she threw her arms about his neck , and laid her head upon his bosom , and so her pure and suffering spirit went , with a sweet sigh , and a fond embrace , the memory of which , in long years after , sweetened greatly the solitude to the heart of the knight of Portugal . 
Nor , when De Soto was thus consigned to his last repose , did Philip suffer that the Spaniards should be troubled by his followers . 
He saw them depart in their brigantines , following the flowings of the Mississippi in its passage to the sea , and , when one of the vessels bearing the banner of his brother Andres glided down the stream , beneath the banks upon which he stood , as it went by , he cried audibly -- `` Farewell to thee , my brother ; fare thee well , Andres de Vasconselos ; farewell for ever ! '' 
But Philip , leading his warriors back to the great king , Tuscaluza , turned away once more towards the mountains of the Apalachian ; and when he had left the territory of Tuscaluza , and once more got back to that of Cofachiqui , -- and when the warriors of Cofachiqui once more assembled with greetings and songs of welcome about their princess , the well-beloved Coçalla , then did that noble creature lay her hands upon the shoulder of the knight and say , -- `` Philip is now the great chief , the well-beloved of the people of Cofachiqui . '' 
And how the heart of the woman gladdened , when at last , in reply to her frequent murmur of the name of Philip , he answered with that of Coçalla ! 
