Again and again Harry Warrington and his brother had pored over the English map , and determined upon the course which they should take upon arriving at Home . 
Harry Warrington had his chart laid out . 
If English landscape is pleasant to the American of the present day , who must needs contrast the rich woods and glowing pastures , and picturesque ancient villages of the old country with the rough aspect of his own , how much pleasanter must Harry Warrington 's course have been , whose journeys had lain through swamps and forest solitudes from one Virginian ordinary to another log-house at the end of the day 's route , and who now lighted suddenly upon the busy , happy , splendid scene of English summer ? 
But Harry was too eager to give more than a passing glance at the Abbey at Bath , or gaze with more than a moment 's wonder at the mighty minster at Salisbury . 
Until he beheld Home it seemed to him he had no eyes for any other place . 
Harry Warrington had often heard of Francis , Lord Castlewood . 
With a beating heart Harry Warrington walked from the inn towards the house where his grandsire 's youth had been passed . 
To Harry 's surprise the old man accosted him by his name . 
`` I think you must be Lockwood , '' said Harry , with rather a tremulous voice , holding out his hand to the old man . 
His grandfather had often told him of Lockwood , and how he had accompanied the Colonel and the young Viscount in Marlborough 's wars forty years ago . 
The veteran seemed puzzled by the mark of affection which Harry extended to him . 
The old dog gazed at the new comer , and then went and put his head between his knees . 
`` Grandfather sometimes does not recollect very well , '' she said , pointing to her head . 
Molly dared to say Mrs. Barker would let his honour see the house , and Harry Warrington made his way across the court , seeming to know the place as well as if he had been born there , Miss Molly thought , who followed , accompanied by Mr. Gumbo making her a profusion of polite bows and speeches . 
Only by strong entreaties could Harry gain leave to see my lady 's sitting-room and the picture-room , where , sure enough , was a portrait of his grandfather in periwig and breastplate , the counterpart of their picture in Virginia , and a likeness of his grandmother , as Lady Castlewood , in a yet earlier habit of Charles II . 
Harry wrote down his name on a paper from his own pocket-book , and laid it on a table in the hall . 
The lackeys rose up from their cards to open the door to him , in order to get their `` vails , '' and Gumbo quitted the bench at the gate , where he had been talking with old Lockwood , the porter , who took Harry 's guinea , hardly knowing the meaning of the gift . 
During the visit to the home of his fathers , Harry had only seen little Polly 's countenance that was the least unselfish or kindly : he walked away , not caring to own how disappointed he was , and what a damp had been struck upon him by the aspect of the place . 
They ought to have known him . 
Had any of them ridden up to his house in Virginia , whether the master were present or absent , the guests would have been made welcome , and , in sight of his ancestors ' hall , he had to go and ask for a dish of bacon and eggs at a country ale-house ! 
After his dinner , he went to the bridge and sate on it , looking towards the old house , behind which the sun was descending as the rooks came cawing home to their nests in the elms . 
His young fancy pictured to itself many of the ancestors of whom his mother and grandsire had told him . 
He fancied knights and huntsmen crossing the ford ; -- cavaliers of King Charles 's days ; my Lord Castlewood , his grandmother 's first husband , riding out with hawk and hound . 
One of them , with an oath , called him a fool , and told him to keep out of the way -- the other , who fancied he might have jostled the foot-passenger , and possibly might have sent him over the parapet , pushed on more quickly when he reached the other side of the water , calling likewise to Tom to come on ; and the pair of young gentlemen were up the hill on their way to the house before Harry had recovered himself from his surprise at their appearance , and wrath at their behaviour . 
Three handsome pale faces looked out at Harry Warrington as the carriage passed over the bridge , and did not return the salute which , recognising the family arms , he gave it . 
The gentleman behind the carriage glared at him haughtily . 
Harry felt terribly alone . 
He thought he would go back to Captain Franks . 
It was the latter had sworn the loudest , and called him a fool ; and it was the grey frock which had nearly galloped Harry into the ditch . 
The landlord of the Three Castles had shown Harry a bed-chamber , but he had refused to have his portmanteaux unpacked , thinking that , for a certainty , the folks of the great house would invite him to theirs . 
Harry was fain to have his trunks open at last , and to call for his slippers and gown . 
That was the Baroness Bernstein , the landlady said , my lord 's aunt , and Harry remembered the first Lady Castlewood had come of a German family . 
Earl , and countess , and baroness , and postilions , and gentlemen , and horses , had all disappeared behind the castle gate , and Harry was fain to go to bed at last , in the most melancholy mood and with a cruel sense of neglect and loneliness in his young heart . 
He could not sleep , and besides , ere long , heard a prodigious noise , and cursing , and giggling , and screaming from my landlady 's bar , which would have served to keep him awake . 
but a shrill voice , with many oaths , which Harry Warrington recognised , cursed Gumbo for a stupid , negro woolly pate , and he was pushed aside , giving entrance to a flood of oaths into the room , and a young gentleman behind them . 
`` You did me great honour to mistake me for a sheriff 's officer , cousin , '' says Harry , with great gravity , sitting up in his tall nightcap . 
`` I have had my share for to-night , cousin , and I should think you have , '' Harry continues , always in the dignified style . 
After which Harry Warrigton closed his tent round him in sulky wrath , and , no doubt , finally went fast to sleep . 
As nothing is unknown to writers of biographies of the present kind , it may be as well to state what had occurred within the walls of Castlewood House , whilst Harry Warrington was without , awaiting some token of recognition from his kinsmen . 
And so the hospitality to be offered by his nearest kinsfolk to poor Harry Warrington remained yet in abeyance . 
The worthy lady of Castlewood , as she caught sight of young Harry Warrington by the river side , must have seen a very handsome and interesting youth , and very likely had reasons of her own for not desiring his presence in her family . 
If Harry 's acres had been in Norfolk or Devon , in place of Virginia , no doubt the good Countess would have been rather more eager in her welcome . 
Had she wanted him she would have given him her hand readily enough . 
`` I knew your grandfather very well , Harry , '' she said . 
`` So you came yesterday to see his picture , and they turned you away , though you know the house was his of right ? '' 
Harry blushed very red . 
A young gentleman came to me last night , '' he said , `` when I was peevish , and he , I fear , was tipsy . 
N6310007 `` My grandfather used to call us his crutches , '' said Harry . 
`` You should have seen -- you should have seen George , '' said the boy , and his honest eyes welled with tears . 
The recollection of his brother , the bitter pain of yesterday 's humiliation , the affectionateness of the present greeting -- all , perhaps , contributed to soften the lad 's heart . 
How should Harry Warrington , a simple truth-telling lad from a distant colony , who had only yesterday put his foot upon English shore , know that my ladies , so smiling and easy in demeanour , were furious against him , and aghast at the favour with which Madam Bernstein seemed to regard him ? 
She was folle of him , talked of no one else , scarce noticed the Castlewood young people , trotted with him over the house , and told him all its story , showed him the little room in the court-yard where his grandfather used to sleep , and a cunning cupboard over the fire-place which had been made in the time of the Catholic persecutions ; drove out with him in the neighbouring country , and pointed out to him the most remarkable sites and houses , and had in return the whole of the young man 's story . 
This brief biography the kind reader will please to accept , not in the precise words in which Mr. Harry Warrington delivered it to Madam Bernstein , but in the form in which it has been cast in the Chapters next ensuing . 
When the boys ' grandfather died , their mother , in great state , proclaimed her eldest son George her successor and heir of the estate ; and Harry , George 's younger brother by half an hour , was always enjoined to respect his senior . 
In the whole family there scarcely was a rebel save Mrs. Esmond 's faithful friend and companion , Madam Mountain , and Harry 's foster-mother , a faithful negro woman , who never could be made to understand why her child should not be first , who was handsomer , and stronger , and cleverer than his brother , as she vowed ; though , in truth , there was scarcely any difference in the beauty , strength , or stature of the twins . 
No threats of the ferule would provoke Harry to learn in an idle fit , or would prevent George from helping his brother in his lesson . 
Harry was of a strong military turn , drilled the little negroes on the estate and caned them like a corporal , having many good boxing-matches with them , and never bearing malice if he was worsted ; -- whereas George was sparing of blows and gentle with all about him . 
He said the punishment was a shame -- a shame ; that he was the master of the boy , and no one -- no , not his mother , -- had a right to touch him ; that she might order him to be corrected , and that he would suffer the punishment , as he and Harry often had , but no one should lay a hand on his boy . 
Trembling with passionate rebellion against what he conceived the injustice of procedure , he vowed -- actually shrieking out an oath , which shocked his fond mother and governor , who never before heard such language from the usually gentle child -- that on the day he came of age he would set young Gumbo free -- went to visit the child in the slaves ' quarters , and gave him one of his own toys . 
says little Harry , who always was ready to abet his brother . 
`` Because I like sitting down best , my dear , '' he said . 
Harry , on the other hand , was all alive in the stables or in the wood , eager for all parties of hunting and fishing , and promised to be a good sportsman from a very early age . 
George was divided between books and a fiddle ; Harry instantly declared for a little gun : and Madam Warrington -LRB- as she then was called -RRB- was hurt that her elder boy should have low tastes , and applauded the younger 's choice as more worthy of his name and lineage . 
Harry had always loved fishing and sporting better than books , and he and the poor Dominie had never been on terms of close intimacy . 
By the death of an aunt , and at his father 's demise , the heirs of Mr. George Warrington became entitled to a sum of six thousand pounds , of which their mother was one of the trustees . 
With the six thousand pounds I would have bought Mr. Boulter 's estate and negroes , which would have given us a good thousand pounds a-year , and made a handsome provision for my Harry . '' 
Here was a chance of making Harry 's fortune -- dear Harry , who was left with such a slender younger brother 's pittance -- and the wretches in London would not help him ; his own brother , who inherited all her Papa 's estate , would not help him . 
Madam Esmond deeply regretted the expense of a fine carriage which she had had from England , and only rode in it to church groaning in spirit , and crying to the sons opposite her , `` Harry Harry ! 
`` You will give me plenty when you live , and George will give me plenty when you die , '' says Harry , gaily . 
cries the widow , rustling in her silks ; `` of course I have no need to be disturbed , because my eldest born is a disobedient son and an unkind brother -- because he has an estate , and my poor Harry , bless him , but a mess of potage . '' 
Harry 's arms were in a moment round his brother 's neck , and he kissed George a score of times . 
`` roars out Harry . 
`` It 's a shame to speak so to him , ma'am . '' 
`` And so it is , Harry , '' says Mrs. Mountain , shaking his hand . 
George kept his head down , and Harry , who was near , got quite close to him during the sermon , and sate with his arm round his brother 's neck . 
Harry had proceeded in his narrative after his own fashion , interspersing it with many youthful ejaculations , and answering a number of incidental questions asked by his listener . 
The old lady seemed never tired of hearing him . 
Her amiable hostess and her daughters came more than once , to ask if she would ride , or walk , or take a dish of tea , or play a game at cards ; but all these amusements Madame Bernstein declined , saying that she found infinite amusement in Harry 's conversation . 
When Harry asked , `` Are you my cousin , too ? '' 
But he was not so good as Lely , who painted your grandmother -- my -- my Lady Castlewood , Colonel Esmond 's wife ; nor he so good as Sir Anthony Van Dyck , who painted your great-grandfather , yonder -- and who looks , Harry , a much finer gentleman than he was . 
`` And the picture over me reminds you of no one , Harry ? '' 
`` Harry , that was my face once -- yes , it was -- and then I was called Beatrix Esmond . 
S Harry Warrington related to his new-found relative the simple story of his adventures at home , no doubt Madam Bernstein , who possessed a great sense of humour and a remarkable knowledge of the world , formed her judgment respecting the persons and events described ; and if her opinion was not in all respects favourable , what can be said but that men and women are imperfect , and human life not entirely pleasant or profitable ? 
George hated Jack Firebrace and Tom Humbold , and all their like : whereas Harry went out sporting with them , and fowling , and fishing , and cockfighting , and enjoyed all the fun of the country . 
At first the boys were as much excited as their mother by Mr. Whitfield : they sang hymns , and listened to him with fervour , and , could he have remained long enough among them , Harry and George had both worn black coats probably instead of epaulettes . 
Harry , who could take much greater liberties than were allowed to his elder brother , mimicked Ward 's manner of eating and talking , so that Mrs. Mountain and even Madam Esmond were forced to laugh , and little Fanny Mountain would crow with delight . 
He made Madam Esmond angry , and doubly so when he sent off Harry into fits of laughter . 
The boys were fourteen years of age , Harry being taller and much more advanced than his brother , who was delicate , and as yet almost child-like in stature and appearance . 
Our little boys had been horsed many a day by Mr. Dempster , their Scotch tutor , in their grandfather 's time ; and Harry , especially , had got to be quite accustomed to the practice , and made very light of it . 
''' `` The very words he used to me , '' cries Harry . 
He asked Master Harry to confirm what he had said : and poor Harry was obliged to admit all the Dominie 's statements . 
cries Harry . 
-- and Harry looked at him , wondering . 
`` I thought , '' she said , `` I thought an Esmond had been more of a man than to be afraid , and '' -- here she gave a little scream as Harry uttered an exclamation , and dashed forward with his hands stretched out towards his brother . 
Harry had tried in vain to catch it . 
And Harry , with sadness and wrath in his countenance , left the room by the door through which Mr. Ward and his brother had just issued . 
In another minute Mr. Ward came out bleeding , from a great wound on his head , and behind him Harry , with flaring eyes , and brandishing a little couteau-de-chasse of his grandfather , which hung with others of the Colonel 's weapons , on the Library wall . 
I did it , '' says Harry . 
I wo n't bear it ; and , if one lifts a hand to me or my brother , I 'll have his life , '' shouts Harry , brandishing the hanger . 
Ask pardon , Harry , of good Mr. Ward , for your wicked rebellious spirit , -- I do , with all my heart , I am sure . 
Here , with a burst of tears which she could no longer control , the little woman threw herself on the neck of her eldest born ; whilst Harry , laying the hanger down , went up very feebly to Mr. Ward , and said , `` Indeed , I ask your pardon , sir . 
His mother admired him as he went up to Harry , graciously and condescendingly gave Hal his hand , and said , `` Thank you , brother ! '' 
as if he were a prince , and Harry a general who had helped him in a great battle . 
says Harry . 
That 's what I call the horns of a dilemma ; '' and he laughed his frank , jolly laugh . 
`` Why , I say , are rulers -- '' `` Rulers `` says George , looking at Harry . 
That night and for some days afterwards it seemed very likely that poor Harry would become heir of Castlewood ; but by Mr. Dempster 's skill the fever was got over , the intermittent attacks diminished in intensity , and George was restored almost to health again . 
Harry camped with the Indians , and took furs and shot bears . 
He learned the latest imported French catches and songs , and played them beautifully on his violin , and would have sung them too but that his voice broke at this time , and changed from treble to bass ; and , to the envy of poor Harry , who was absent on a bear-hunt , he even had an affair of honour with a young ensign of the regiment of Auvergne , the Chevalier de la Jabotière , whom he pinked in the shoulder , and with whom he afterwards swore an eternal friendship . 
The boys could hardly be distinguished one from another , especially when their hair was powdered ; but that ceremony being too cumbrous for country-life , each of the gentlemen commonly wore his own hair , George his raven black , and Harry his light locks tied with a ribbon . 
George was her boy ; Harry was his mother 's boy . 
Poor Harry can keep nothing quiet , and then there would be a pretty quarrel between Madam and me ! '' 
Meanwhile Mr. George adopted towards his mother 's favourite a frigid courtesy , at which the honest gentleman chafed but did not care to remonstrate , or a stinging sarcasm , which he would break through as he would burst through so many brambles on those hunting excursions in which he and Harry Warrington rode so constantly together ; whilst George , retreating to his tents , read mathematics , and French , and Latin , and sulked in his book-room more and more lonely . 
Harry was away from home with some other sporting friends -LRB- it is to be feared the young gentleman 's acquaintances were not all as eligible as Mr. Washington -RRB- , when the latter came to pay a visit at Castlewood . 
Harry Warrington cursed his ill-fortune that he had been absent from home on a cock-fight , when he might have had chance of sport so much nobler ; and on his return from his expedition , which he had conducted with an heroic energy and simplicity , Major Washington was a greater favourite than ever with the lady of Castlewood . 
She pointed him out as a model to both her sons . 
`` Ah , Harry ! '' 
Harry and I saw the French in Canada last year . 
She more than ever pointed out his excellences to her sons , contrasting his sterling qualities with Harry 's love of pleasure -LRB- the wild boy ! -RRB- 
Harry was off forth with to see the troops under canvas at Alexandria . 
The sight of their lines delighted him , and the inspiring music of their fifes and drums . 
He speedily made acquaintance with the officers of both regiments ; he longed to join in the expedition upon which they were bound , and was a welcome guest at their mess . 
As for the company of the King 's officers , Mr. Harry and his elder brother both smiled at their mamma 's compliments to the elegance and propriety of the gentlemen of the camp . 
To make the campaign was the dearest wish of Harry 's life . 
He dreamed only of war and battle ; he was for ever with the officers at Williamsburg ; he scoured and cleaned and polished all the guns and swords in the house ; he renewed the amusements of his childhood , and had the negroes under arms . 
His mother , who had a gallant spirit , knew that the time was come when one of her boys must leave her and serve the king . 
Eager as Harry was to be a soldier , and with all his thoughts bent on that glorious scheme , he too scarcely dared to touch on the subject nearest his heart . 
Once or twice when he ventured on it with George , the latter 's countenance wore an ominous look . 
Harry had a feudal attachment for his elder brother , worshipped him with an extravagant regard , and in all things gave way to him as the chief . 
So Harry saw , to his infinite terror , how George , too , in his grave way , was occupied with military matters . 
Harry 's eyes brightened and his face flushed at this offer . 
Harry allowed his senior to speak . 
His will was even still obedient to George 's . 
cries Harry , turning very red . 
again cries Harry , with a sidelong look at George . 
But , you see , 't is the law of Honour , my Harry . '' 
`` Yes , George , '' said poor Harry , `` I own I should . '' 
Dinah , George 's foster-mother , was loud in her lamentations at losing him ; Phillis , Harry 's old nurse , was as noisy because Master George , as usual , was preferred over Master Harry . 
Sady , George 's servant , made preparations to follow his master , bragging incessantly of the deeds which he would do , while Gumbo , Harry 's boy , pretended to whimper at being left behind , though , at home , Gumbo was anything but a fire-eater . 
`` I know , Mountain , '' said he , `` that Harry would be the better soldier ; but , after all , to go is my duty . '' 
how she is always holding him up to you , to Harry , to everybody who comes here ? '' 
`` But he is going on the campaign , too , '' cried George . 
`` He is going on the marrying campaign , child ! '' 
Mr. Washington had seen the gentlemen of honour and fashion over their cups , and perhaps thought that all their sayings and doings were not precisely such as would tend to instruct or edify a young man on his entrance into life ; but he wisely chose to tell no tales out of school , and said that Harry and George , now they were coming into the world , must take their share of good and bad , and hear what both sorts had to say . 
`` Ah , Harry ! '' 
`` O Harry , Harry ! '' 
asks Harry , taking her in his arms . 
asked Harry , who loved his mother , who loved Mr. Washington , but who , of all creatures , loved and admired his brother George . 
You beat that great Maryland man was twice your size , '' breaks out Harry . 
But I am of a quiet turn , and would never lift my hand to pull a trigger , no , nor a nose , nor anything but a rose , '' and here he took and handled one of Madam Esmond 's bright pink apron ribbons . 
George put his disengaged hand on Harry 's shoulder . 
`` If you are not fond of sporting and that , and do n't care for killing game and hunting , being cleverer than me , why shouldst thou not stop at home and be quiet , and let me go out with Colonel George and Mr. Braddock -- that 's what I say , '' says Harry , delivering himself of his speech . 
`` Told you so , '' said poor Harry . 
`` Fricasseed by French , '' cries Harry , `` the best troops of the world ! 
and the brave lad sighed to think he should not be present at the battue . 
Harry Warrington remarked their friend 's condition . 
he asked his brother . 
Now , Harry ! 
Indeed , when the boys rode together to get their reading with Mr. Dempster , I suspect that Harry stayed behind and took lessons from the other professor of European learning and accomplishments , -- George going his own way , reading his own books , and , of course , telling no tales of his younger brother . 
`` He always seemed great to me , '' says Harry Warrington , in one of his letters many years after the date of which we are writing ; `` and I never thought of him otherwise than of a hero . 
`` Harry promised me , and when he gives his word , I can trust him for anything . 
Mr. Braddock loved a song after dinner , and Mr. Danvers his aide-de-camp , who had a fine tenor voice , was delighting his General with the latest ditty from Marybone Gardens , when George Warrington , jumping up , ran towards the window , and then returned and pulled his brother Harry by the sleeve , who sate with his back towards the window . 
says Harry , who , for his part , was charmed , too , with the song and chorus . 
Harry was for going straightway to his mother in her bed-room -- where her black maidens were divesting her ladyship of the simple jewels and fineries which she had assumed in compliment to the feast -- protesting against the odious match , and announcing that they would go home , live upon their little property there , and leave her for ever , if the unnatural union took place . 
We must have him out , Harry . '' 
Harry saw the profound truth conveyed in George 's statement , and admired his brother 's immense sagacity . 
`` No , George , '' says he , `` you are right . 
`` My dear Harry , '' the elder replied , thinking with some complacency of his affair of honour at Quebec , `` you are not accustomed to affairs of this sort . '' 
`` No , '' owned Harry , with a sigh , looking with envy and admiration on his senior . 
cries Harry , grasping his brother 's hand , and that we will , too . 
`` This is my turn , brother , '' Harry pleaded . 
Indeed , indeed , I ought ; '' and he prayed for this bit of promotion . 
`` If I fall , my Harry will avenge me . 
Harry , his brother 's fondest worshipper , could not but admire George 's haughty bearing and rapid declamation , and prepared himself , with his usual docility , to follow his chief . 
`` Farewell , my dear Harry , '' he said . 
George was quite gay and easy : it was Harry who was melancholy now : he rode silently and wistfully by his brother , keeping away from Colonel Washington , to whose side he used always to press eagerly before . 
If the honest Colonel remarked his young friend 's conduct , no doubt he attributed it to Harry 's known affection for his brother , and his natural anxiety to be with George now the day of their parting was so near . 
George Warrington entered the place with a particularly gay and lively air , whereas poor Harry 's face was quite white and wo-begone . 
`` One would think , Squire Harry , 't was you who was going to leave home and fight the French and Indians , and not Mr. George , '' says Benson . 
`` I may be alarmed about danger to my brother , '' said Harry , `` though I might bear my own share pretty well . 
`` Harry Warrington 's courage does not need any proof ! '' 
Whilst his friend was vaunting his courage , Harry looked , to say the truth , by no means courageous . 
As his eyes met his brother 's , he read in George 's look an announcement which alarmed the fond faithful lad . 
Harry Warrington drank the King . 
here cried Harry , starting up . 
`` Or give us the reparation that is due to gentlemen , '' continues Harry . 
As Harry stood facing him , with his fair hair , flushing cheeks , and quivering voice , an immense tenderness and kindness filled the bosom of the elder man . 
cries poor Harry once more . 
Mr. Harry , of course , as a young man of spirit , will stand by his brother . 
God pardon you , Harry ! 
Harry hung his head , but George continued with perfect calmness . 
`` Do you bear malice too , Harry ? 
`` I stand by my brother , '' said Harry , turning away from the Colonel 's look , and grasping George 's hand . 
`` You know what a good shot Colonel George is , Harry . 
Harry wept as he took it down . 
I took my hint , I confess , from that , Harry . 
Harry had written the last words `` in view , '' in vew , and a great blot of salt water from his honest , boyish eyes may have obliterated some other bad spelling . 
The paper is there , '' cried the young man , slapping his breast-pocket , `` and if anything happens to me , Harry Warrington , you will find it on my corse ! '' 
`` Write yourself , Georgy , I ca n't write , '' says Harry , digging his fists into his eyes , and smearing over the whole composition , bad spelling and all , with his elbows . 
Take the watch , Harry , dear . '' 
cried out Harry , flinging his arms round his brother . 
`` If he fights you , I 'll fight him , too . 
If he kills my Georgy , -- him , he shall have a shot at me ! '' 
Then he fired another pistol off , to which noises Sady 's horse , which had carried Harry Warrington on many a hunt , was perfectly accustomed ; and now he was in the court-yard , surrounded by a score of his bawling comrades , and was descending amidst fluttering fowls and turkeys , kicking horses and shrieking frantic pigs , and brother negroes crowded round him , to whom he instantly began to talk and chatter . 
Dr. Dempster and Mrs. Mountain have clattered into the yard , have jumped from their horses , have elbowed through the negroes , have rushed into the house , have run through it and across the porch , where the British officers are sitting in muzzy astonishment ; have run down the stairs to the garden where George and Harry are walking , their tall enemy stalking opposite to them ; and almost ere George Warrington has had time sternly to say , `` What do you do here , Madam ? '' 
cries Harry , all of a tremble . 
`` Thank God he did , brother , '' said poor Harry . 
`` You have shown your proofs before , George , '' says Harry , respectfully . 
Harry here cries out , springing over the cabbage-garden towards the bowling-green , where the Colonel was stalking , and though we can not hear him , we see him , with both his hands out , and with the eagerness of youth , and with a hundred blunders , and with love and affection thrilling in his honest voice we imagine the lad telling his tale to his friend . 
When Harry had finished his artless story , his friend the Colonel took him fairly to his arms , and held him to his heart : and his voice faltered as he said , `` Thank God , thank God for this ! '' 
`` O George , '' said Harry , who felt now how he loved his friend with all his heart , `` how I wish I was going with you on the campaign ! '' 
Then , the Colonel advanced , gravely holding out his hand to Harry 's elder brother . 
Perhaps Harry wondered that the two did not embrace as he and the Colonel had just done . 
Heaven bless thee , Harry ! 
WE must fancy that the parting between the brothers is over , that George has taken his place in Mr. Braddock 's family , and Harry has returned home to Castlewood and his duty . 
His heart is with the army , and his pursuits at home offer the boy no pleasure . 
He does not care to own how deep his disappointment is , at being obliged to stay under the homely , quiet roof , now more melancholy than ever since George is away . 
Harry passes his brother 's empty chamber with an averted face ; takes George 's place at the head of the table , and sighs as he drinks from his silver tankard . 
Madam Warrington calls the toast of `` the King , '' stoutly every day ; and , on Sundays , when Harry reads the Service , and prays for all travellers by land and by water , she says , `` We beseech thee to hear us , '' with a peculiar solemnity . 
Mrs. Mountain is constantly on the whimper when George 's name is mentioned , and Harry 's face wears a look of the most ghastly alarm ; but his mother 's is invariably grave and sedate . 
Hearken to Harry Warrington reading out his brother 's letter ! 
As we look at the slim characters on the yellow page , fondly kept and put aside , we can almost fancy him alive who wrote and who read it -- and yet , lo ! 
Sure I know Harry 's , and yonder he sits in the warm summer evening , and reads his young brother 's simple story : -- `` It must be owned that the provinces are acting scurvily by his Majesty King George II. , and his representative here is in a flame of fury . 
Harry looks as if he was choking with laughter , or with some other concealed emotion , but his mother says , `` Go on , Harry ! 
He writes well : but , ah , will he ever be able to write like my papa ? '' 
Harry resumes . 
O Harry , but it made one sick to see the first blood drawn from a great strong white back , and to hear the piteous yell of the poor fellow . '' 
Here Mr. Harry pauses , as not caring to proceed with the narrative , in the presence of little Fanny , very likely , who sits primly in her chair by her mother 's side , working her little sampler . 
And Harry commences , in a loud tone , a much more satisfactory statement . 
`` Never mind the stories ; and go on , Harry , '' cries the mistress of the house . 
`` -- would be shocked to hear after dinner ; but he never misses service . 
He adores his Great Duke , and has his name constantly on his lips . 
O Harry ! 
But though I do n't love him , as you do , I know he is a good soldier , a good officer , and a brave , honest man ; and , at any rate , shall love him none the worse for not wanting to be our step-father . '' 
cries Harry 's mother . 
If there are any more such allusions in George 's journal , I beg you skip 'em , Harry , my dear . 
`` 'T is a pretty sight , '' Harry continued , reading from his brother 's journal , `` to see a long line of red-coats , threading through the woods or taking their ground after the march . 
Harry Warrington was as pale as his mother . 
Thither poor Harry and his companions rode , stopping stragglers , asking news , giving money , getting from one and all the same gloomy tale -- A thousand men were slain -- two thirds of the officers were down -- All the General 's aides-de-camp were hit . 
All the fond memories of their youth , all the dear remembrances of their childhood , the love and the laughter , the tender romantic vows which they had pledged to each other as lads , were recalled by Harry with pangs inexpressibly keen . 
Wounded men looked up and were softened by his grief : rough women melted as they saw the woe written on the handsome young face : the hardy old tutor could scarcely look at him for tears , and grieved for him even more than for his dear pupil who lay dead under the savage Indian knife . 
N6310022 AT every step which Harry Warrington took towards Pennsylvania , the reports of the British disaster were magnified and confirmed . 
More than one of Harry 's informants described the action to the poor lad , -- the passage of the river , the long line of advance through the wilderness , the firing in front , the vain struggle of the men to advance , and the artillery to clear the way of the enemy ; then the ambushed fire from behind every bush and tree , and the murderous fusillade , by which at least half of the expeditionary force had been shot down . 
But not all the General 's suite were killed , Harry heard . 
One of his aides-de-camp , a Virginian gentleman , was ill of fever and exhaustion at Dunbar 's camp . 
To the camp Harry hurried , and reached it at length . 
A sharper pain than that of the fever Mr. Washington declared he felt , when he saw Harry Warrington , and could give him no news of George . 
Mr. Washington did not dare to tell Harry all . 
For three days after the fight , his duty had been to be near the General . 
If you had loved him you would have found him dead or alive , '' Harry cried out . 
Nothing would satisfy him but that he , too , should go to the ground and examine it . 
With money he procured a guide or two . 
He forded the river at the place where the army had passed over : he went from one end to the other of the dreadful field . 
Save in his own grandfather , lying very calm , with a sweet smile on his lip , Harry had never yet seen the face of Death . 
The horrible spectacle of mutilation caused him to turn away with shudder and loathing . 
When Harry returned to the English encampment at Dunbar 's , it was his turn to be down with the fever . 
Delirium set in upon him , and he lay some time in the tent and on the bed from which his friend had just risen convalescent . 
For some days he did not know who watched him ; and poor Dempster , who had tended him in more than one of these maladies , thought the widow must lose both her children ; but the fever was so far subdued that the boy was enabled to rally somewhat , and get to horseback . 
First came Mrs. Mountain and her little daughter , welcoming Harry with many tears and embraces , but she scarce gave a nod of recognition to Mr. Washington ; and the little girl caused the young officer to start , and turn deadly pale , by coming up to him with her hands behind her , and asking , `` Why have you not brought George back too ? '' 
Harry did not hear . 
The sobs and caresses of his good friend and nurse , luckily kept him from listening to little Fanny . 
cries Harry . 
Why , he is like a son of the house , '' cries Harry . 
Harry took his friend 's arm , and excusing himself to the Colonel , to whom he said he would return in a few minutes , he left the parlour in which they had assembled , and went to the upper rooms , where Madam Esmond was . 
Never mind , my Harry ; our hero will come back to us , -- I know he is not dead . 
-LRB- Perhaps Harry thought within himself that his mother had not always been accustomed so to speak of her eldest son . -RRB- 
And when Harry pressed her to give a reason for her belief , she said she had seen her father two nights running in a dream , and he had told her that her boy was a prisoner among the Indians . 
Madam Esmond 's grief had not prostrated her as Harry 's had when first it fell upon him ; it had rather stirred and animated her : her eyes were eager , her countenance angry and revengeful . 
please God it be only as you say , '' cried Harry , in bewilderment . 
`` But he tended me most kindly in my fever , '' interposed Harry . 
`` No gentleman , '' cried Harry , warmly , `` was ever refused shelter under my grandfather 's roof . '' 
`` Harry was ill and weak , and I thought it was my duty to ride by him , '' faltered the Colonel . 
But my friends here will bear you company as long as you favour us , whilst I nurse my poor Harry up-stairs . 
A fortnight after the defeat , when Harry was absent on his quest , George 's servant , Sady , reappeared wounded and maimed at Castlewood . 
But he could give no coherent account of the battle , only of his flight from the centre , where he was with the baggage . 
He had no news of his master since the morning of the action . 
So , if Harry wanted to meet his friend , he had to do so in secret , at court-houses , taverns , or various places of resort ; or in their little towns , where the provincial gentry assembled . 
What a heart must Harry have to give his hand to one whom she considered as little better than George 's murderer ! 
'T is because you never loved anybody sufficiently , my poor Harry ; else you might have leave to see them in dreams , as has been vouchsafed to some . 
`` I think I loved George , mother , '' cried Harry . 
`` I can not tell how it came , '' said Harry , as he brought the story to an end , which we have narrated in the last two numbers , and which he confided to his new-found English relative , Madame de Bernstein ; `` but since that fatal day of July , last year , and my return home , my mother never has been the same woman . 
Here was money enough , friends enough , a good position , and the respect of the world ; a house stored with all manner of plenty , and good things , and poor Harry Warrington was glad to leave them all behind him . 
To be sure , when her boy was gone , Madam Esmond forgot all these little tiffs and differences . 
All her domestic negroes , who loved society as negroes will do , were delighted to exchange the solitude of Castlewood for the gay and merry little town ; where , for a time , and while we pursue Harry Warrington 's progress in Europe , we leave the good lady . 
Harry Warrington had not pious Æneas 's power of speech , and his elderly aunt , we may presume , was by no means so soft-hearted as the sentimental Dido ; but yet the lad 's narrative was touching , as he delivered it with his artless eloquence and cordial voice ; and more than once , in the course of his story , Madam Bernstein found herself moved to a softness to which she had very seldom before allowed herself to give way . 
-- Yes , that Harry owned . 
She liked him , but only as a friend , Harry declared . 
A hundred times he had heard his mother vow that she had no other feeling towards him . 
He was ashamed to have to own that he himself had been once absurdly jealous of the Colonel . 
After a couple of days ' stay in the ancestral house , Mr. Harry Warrington had become Cousin Harry with young and middle-aged . 
said the Countess , clapping her hands , nodding with one of her best smiles to Harry Warrington , and darting a look at his partner , which my Lady Fanny perfectly understood ; and so , perhaps , did my Lady Maria at her harpsichord , for she played with redoubled energy , and nodded her waving curls , over the chords . 
She made Harry a very low curtsey , and he blushed , and they both stopped dancing , somewhat disconcerted . 
`` I do n't know how to dance , '' says Harry , hanging his head down , with a blush that the Countess 's finest carmine could not equal . 
`` I -- I had rather not show off my awkwardness in company , '' adds Harry , recovering himself . 
It was only in after-days that she told Harry Warrington a part of what she knew . 
At present he but saw that his kinsfolks received him not unkindly . 
Lady Castlewood was perfectly civil to him ; the young ladies pleasant and pleased ; my Lord Castlewood , a man of cold and haughty demeanour , was not more reserved towards Harry than to any of the rest of the family ; Mr. William was ready to drink with him , to ride with him , to go to races with him , and to play cards with him . 
THE second day after Harry 's arrival at Castlewood was a Sunday . 
A few ancient dusty banners hung from the church-roof ; and Harry pleased himself in imaginging that they had been borne by retainers of his family in the Commonwealth wars , in which , as he knew well , his ancestors had taken a loyal and distinguished part . 
Madame de Bernstein , in her quality of Bishop 's widow , never failed in attendance , and conducted her devotions with a gravity almost as exemplary as that of the ancestor yonder , in his square beard and red gown , for ever kneeling on his stone hassock before his great marble desk and book , under his emblazoned shield of arms . 
This choral performance over , a brief sermon in due course followed , which , indeed , Harry thought a deal too short . 
He did not introduce into his sermon the Scripture phraseology , such as Harry had been accustomed to hear it from those somewhat Calvinistic preachers whom his mother loved to frequent , but rather spoke as one man of the world to other sinful people , who might be likely to profit by good advice . 
Harry started back as that handkerchief dropped . 
Harry could have heard him for an hour more , and thought he had not been five minutes in the pulpit . 
Once or twice , Harry , who could see the pew where the house servants sate , remarked these very attentive ; and especially Gumbo , his own man , in an attitude of intense consternation . 
says Harry . 
The other dogs about which Mr. William is anxious , for Heaven hath made him a prey to dogs and all kinds of birds , like the Greeks in the Iliad -- '' `` I know that line in the Iliad , '' says Harry , blushing . 
And his head fell . 
He was thinking . 
`` What on earth '' -LRB- only he mentioned a place under the earth -RRB- `` are you talking about now ? '' 
asked Will of his reverence . 
He thought Mr. William 's dogs were more than a match for them . 
cries Harry ; `` but Oh ! 
continues his reverence . 
`` I have done such a thing , '' replies Harry with a smile . 
`` I do n't bet on horses I do n't know , '' said Harry , wondering to hear the chaplain now , and remembering his sermon half an hour before . 
Have a care how you venture on either of them , Harry Warrington . 
Will is an old file , in spite of his smooth face , and as for Parson Sampson , I defy our ghostly enemy to get the better of him . '' 
Harry was highly indignant at this allusion to his mother . 
`` I 'll tell you what , cousin Will , '' he said , `` I am in the habit of managing my own affairs in my own way , without asking any lady to arrange them for me . 
asks Harry with a superb air , as if he had Lombard Street in his pocket . 
`` Here goes a great slice out of my quarter 's hundred , '' thinks Harry . 
Lord Castlewood and Harry remained for a while together . 
said my lord to Harry . 
`` I reckon it 's almost as big as an English county , '' answered Harry , `` and the land 's as good , too , for many things . '' 
Harry would not have the Old Dominion , nor his share in it , underrated . 
`` I mean , cousin , that we of the Virginian house owe you nothing but our own , '' continued Harry Warrington ; `` but our own , and the hospitality which you are now showing me . '' 
And with this , the excited young fellow knocked a billiard-ball across the table , and then laughed , and looked at his elder kinsman . 
We do n't take Mr. Harry Warrington into our arms , and cry when we see our cousin . 
But you try to get the better of him in a bet , '' says Harry , indignantly . 
cries Harry . 
cries Harry . 
The Senior was greatly entertained , and held out his hand to the boy . 
`` More than sufficient for all of us -- for ten times as many as we are now , '' replied Harry . 
cried Harry . 
My lord 's chaplain poured out all this intelligence to the amused ladies and the delighted young provincial , seasoning his conversation with such plain terms and lively jokes as made Harry stare , who was newly arrived from the Colonies , and unused to the elegances of London life . 
It was but in jest , '' cried Harry . 
When Harry gave to Lord Castlewood those flourishing descriptions of the maternal estate in America , he had not wished to mislead his kinsman , or to boast , or to tell falsehoods , for the lad was of a very honest and truth-telling nature ; but , in his life at-home , it must be owned that the young fellow had had acquaintance with all sorts of queer company , -- horse-jockies , tavern-loungers , gambling and sporting-men , of whom a great number were found in his native colony . 
Harry had slept on many a straw mattrass , and engaged in endless , jolly night-bouts over claret and punch in cracked bowls till morning came , and it was time to follow the hounds . 
His poor brother was of a much more sober sort , as the lad owned with contrition . 
None of them were partial to the Puritan discipline ; nor did they like Harry the worse for not being the least of a milksop . 
So , keeping a shrewd keen eye upon people round about him , and fancying , not incorrectly , that his cousins were disposed to pump him , Harry Warrington had thought fit to keep his own counsel regarding his own affairs , and in all games of chance or matters of sport was quite a match for the three gentlemen into whose company he had fallen . 
Even in the noble game of billiards he could hold his own after a few days ' play with his cousins and their revered pastor . 
His grandfather loved the game , and had over from Europe one of the very few tables which existed in his Majesty 's province of Virginia . 
After their first bet , Harry was on his guard with Mr. Will , and cousin William owned , not without respect , that the American was his match in most things , and his better in many . 
But though Harry played so well that he could beat the parson , and soon was the equal of Will , who of course could beat both the girls , how came it , that in the contests with these , especially with one of them , Mr. Warrington frequently came off second ? 
had been thirty years on the throne , how could she be seven-and-twenty , as she told Harry Warrington she was ? 
She used to call Harry `` child '' when they were alone . 
To which Harry would reply , `` Your ladyship might be the mother of all the cupids , I am sure . 
And yet , O you foolish Harry ! 
No doubt Lady Maria was very kind to Harry when they were alone . 
Before her sister , aunt , stepmother , she made light of him , calling him a simpleton , a chit , and who knows what trivial names ? 
Behind his back , and even before his face , she mimicked his accent , which smacked somewhat of his province . 
Harry blushed and corrected the faulty intonation , under his English monitresses . 
His aunt pronounced that they would soon make him a pretty fellow . 
Harry and Will rode off to many jolly fairs and races round about : the young Virginian was presented to some of the county families -- the Henleys of the Grange , the Crawleys of Queen 's Crawley , the Redmaynes of Lionsden , and so forth . 
You will come to us in our gay days , Harry , wo n't you ? 
Harry grasps his cousin 's hand with ardour . 
I do not know what privilege of cousinship he would not like to claim , only he is so timid . 
He at first thought his relatives were so : but how mistaken he was ! 
Now , not only was Harry Warrington a favourite with some in the drawing-room , and all the ladies of the servants ' - hall , but , like master like man , his valet Gumbo was very much admired and respected by very many of the domestic circle . 
A young gentleman in England is not the less liked because he is reputed to be the heir to vast wealth and possessions ; when Lady Castlewood came to hear of Harry 's prodigious expectations , she repented of her first cool reception of him , and of having pinched her daughter 's arm till it was black and blue for having been extended towards the youth in too friendly a manner . 
Was it too late to have him back into those fair arms ? 
And Harry was sure his mother would adore her , so would Mountain . 
And when he was asked about the number of his mother 's servants , he said , they certainly had more servants than are seen in England -- he did not know how many . 
As for some others of Gumbo 's details which were brought to him , he laughed and said the boy was wonderful as a romancer , and in telling such stories he supposed was trying to speak out for the honour of the family . 
So Harry was modest as well as rich ! 
His denials only served to confirm his relatives ' opinion regarding his splendid expectations . 
More and more the Countess and the ladies were friendly and affectionate with him . 
Harry 's simple dress and equipage only served to confirm his friends ' idea of his wealth . 
To see a young man of his rank and means with but one servant , and without horses or a carriage of his own -- what modesty ! 
When he went to London he would cut a better figure ? 
Of course he would . 
Castlewood would introduce him to the best society in the capital , and he would appear as he ought to appear at St. James 's . 
Harry liked quite well the respect that was paid to him . 
As Madam Esmond 's son he thought perhaps it was his due : and took for granted that he was the personage which his family imagined him to be . 
How should he know better , who had never as yet seen any place but his own province , and why should he not respect his own condition when other people respected it so ? 
So all the little knot of people at Castlewood House , and from these the people in Castlewood village , and from thence the people in the whole county , chose to imagine that Mr. Harry Esmond Warrington was the heir of immense wealth , and a gentleman of very great importance , because his negro valet told lies about him in the servants ' - hall . 
Harry 's aunt , Madame de Bernstein , after a week or two , began to tire of Castlewood and the inhabitants of that mansion , and the neighbours who came to visit them . 
`` Why do not you offer , and where are your American manners , you ungracious Harry Warrington ? 
Harry is much better company than you are , and much better ton too , sir . '' 
`` I have scarcely seen Harry at all in these last days . 
You shall ride with me to Tunbridge , Harry ! '' 
At this direct appeal , and to no one 's wonder more than that of his aunt , Mr. Harry Warrington blushed , and hemmed and ha 'd : and at length said , `` I have promised my cousin Castlewood to go over to Hexton Petty Sessions with him to-morrow . 
Saying which words , Harry Warrington looked as red as a poppy , whilst Lady Maria held her meek face downwards , and nimbly plied her needle . 
YOUNG Harry Warrington 's act of revolt came so suddenly upon Madame de Bernstein , that she had no other way of replying to it , than by the prompt outbreak of anger with which we left her in the last chapter . 
It was then a thing convenue , that my Lord Castlewood had a laudable desire to cultivate the domestic affections , and to educate , amuse , and improve his young relative ; and that he had taken a great fancy to the lad , and wished that Harry should stay for some time near his lordship . 
asked William of his mother and sister as they disappeared into the corridors . 
`` He ca n't mean Maria -- Maria is as old as Harry 's mother , '' muses Mr. William . 
If I had liked him , that is no reason why I should marry him . 
She remembered how frequent Harry Warrington 's absences had been of late -- absences which she attributed to his love for field-sports . 
She remembered how often , when he was absent , Maria Esmond was away too . 
`` Have you abused her to your cousin , Harry Warrington ? '' 
He will tell her everything , and they both will hate you . '' 
`` I had a sort of a suspicion , you see , and two days ago , as we were riding together , I told Harry Warrington a bit of my mind about Maria ; -- why should n't I , I say ? 
`` Well , mother , -- you see that at quarter-staff there 's two sticks used , '' replied Mr. William ; `` and my opinion is , that Harry Warrington can guard his own head uncommonly well . 
`` At least there is very little disparity in Fanny 's age and Mr. Harry 's ; and you surely will be the last to say that a lady of our name and family is not good enough for any gentleman born in Virginia or elsewhere . '' 
Was Harry 's passion of the serious and tragical sort , or a mere fire of straw which a day or two would burn out ? 
How deeply was he committed ? 
She dreaded the strength of Harry 's passion , and the weakness of Maria 's . 
The eyes looked up at Harry Warrington , who stood at an ancestral portrait under the great fire-place . 
He had gathered a great heap of blushes , -LRB- those flowers which bloom so rarely after gentlefolks ' spring-time ;-RRB- and with them ornamented his honest countenance , his cheeks , his forehead , nay , his youthful ears . 
cried Harry , with a voice trembling with emotion . 
`` Whe -- whe -- when you gave me this rose from your own neck -- '' roared out Harry , pulling suddenly a crumpled and decayed vegetable from his waistcoat -- `` which I will never part with -- with , no , by heavens , whilst this heart continues to beat ! 
You said , ` Harry , if your aunt asks you to go away , you will go , and if you go , you will forget me . ' 
`` In this cold selfish country they may , cousin , not in ours , '' continues Harry , yet in the same state of exultation -- `` I had rather have lost an arm almost than refused the old lady . 
he added , after a moment 's pause . 
`` Dear Harry , tell me who did that ? 
... '' `` Indeed it was n't Lady Castlewood , '' interposed the wondering Harry . 
Why , Harry , she intrigued with the Pretender , and with the Court of Hanover , and , I daresay , would with the Court of Rome and the Sultan of Turkey if she had had the means . 
... '' `` But our aunt never spoke a word against you , '' broke in Harry , more and more amazed at the nymph 's vehemence . 
`` I want thee to think well of me , Harry ! '' 
he cries , looking into her face with his eager , honest eyes . 
Two fish-pools irradiated by a pair of stars would not kindle to greater warmth than did those elderly orbs into which Harry poured his gaze . 
Nevertheless , he plunged into their blue depths , and fancied he saw heaven in their calm brightness . 
So that silly dog -LRB- of whom Æsop or the Spelling-book used to tell us in youth -RRB- beheld a beef-bone in the pond , and snapped it , and lost the beef-bone he was carrying . 
He saw the beef-bone in his own mouth reflected in the treacherous pool , which dimpled , I daresay , with ever so many smiles , coolly sucked up the meat , and returned to its usual placidity . 
In the last sentence you see Lector Benevolus and Scriptor Doctissimus figure as tough old Ulysses and his tough old Boatswain , who do not care a quid of tobacco for any Syren at Syrens ' Point ; but Harry Warrington is green Telemachus , who , be sure , was very unlike the soft youth in the good Bishop of Cambray 's twaddling story . 
The song is not stale to Harry Warrington , nor the voice cracked or out of tune that sings it . 
Any man or woman with a pennyworth of brains , or the like precious amount of personal experience , or who has read a novel before , must , when Harry pulled out those faded vegetables just now , have gone off into a digression of his own , as the writer confesses for himself he was diverging whilst he had been writing the last brace of paragraphs . 
If he sees a pair of lovers whispering in a garden alley or the embrasure of a window , or a pair of glances shot across the room from Jenny to the artless Jessamy , he falls to musing on former days when , & c. & c . 
As well tell the market-gardener 's name from whom the slip-rose was bought -- the waterings , clippings , trimmings , manurings , the plant has undergone -- as tell how Harry Warrington came by it . 
And how came Maria to give it to Harry ? 
And how did he come to want it and to prize it so passionately when he got the bit of rubbish ? 
Harry values that rose because Maria has ogled him in the old way ; because she has happened to meet him in the garden in the old way ; because she has taken her hand in the old way ; because they have whispered to one another behind the old curtain -LRB- the gaping old rag , as if everybody could not peep through it ! -RRB- 
Of course that rose in young Harry 's pocket-book had grown , and had budded , and had bloomed , and was now rotting , like other roses . 
I can not write this part of the story of our Virginians , because Harry did not dare to write it himself to anybody at home , because , if he wrote any letters to Maria -LRB- which , of course , he did , as they were in the same house , and might meet each other as much as they liked -RRB- , they were destroyed ; because he afterwards chose to be very silent about the story , and we ca n't have it from her Ladyship , who never told the truth about anything . 
Maria might like to have and exercise power over the young Virginian ; but she did not want that Harry should quarrel with his aunt for her sake , or that Madame de Bernstein should be angry with her . 
Harry was not the Lord of Virginia yet : he was only the Prince , and the Queen might marry and have other Princes , and the laws of primogeniture might not be established in Virginia , qu'en savait elle ? 
Thus three days before , when she happened to be going to see that poor dear old Goody , who was ill with the sore knee in the village -LRB- and when Harry Warrington happened to be walking behind the elms on the green , too -RRB- , my lord with his dogs about him , and his gardener walking after him , crossed the court , just as Lady Maria was tripping to the gate-house -- and his lordship called his sister , and said : `` Molly , you are going to see Goody Jenkins . 
His lordship wished that in the old country there were no more poor people than in the new : and recommended Harry to visit the poor and people of every degree , indeed , high and low -- in the country to look at the agriculture , in the city at the manufactures and municipal institutions -- to which edifying advice Harry acceded with becoming modesty and few words , and Madame Bernstein nodded approval over her picquet with the chaplain . 
Next day , Harry was in my lord 's justice-room : the next day he was out ever so long with my lord on the farm -- and coming home , what does my lord do , but look in on a sick tenant ? 
said a lady to whom Harry submitted his precious manuscript . 
`` You are beloved in the village and out of it , '' said Harry , with a knowing emphasis , `` and I have flattered you , as you call it , a little more still , further on . '' 
`` I think 't is by looking at you , cousin ; '' saying which words , Mr. Harry made her ladyship a low bow , and accompanied the bow by one of his best blushes , as if he were offering her a bow and a bouquet . 
AT the next meal , when the family party assembled , there was not a trace of displeasure in Madame de Bernstein 's countenance , and her behaviour to all the company , Harry included , was perfectly kind and cordial . 
She praised the cook this time , declared the fricassée was excellent , and that there were no eels anywhere like those in the Castlewood moats ; would not allow that the wine was corked , or hear of such extravagance as opening a fresh bottle for a useless old woman like her ; gave Madam Esmond Warrington , of Virginia , as her toast , when the new wine was brought , and hoped Harry had brought away his mamma 's permission to take back an English wife with him . 
He did not remember his grandmother ; her , Madame de Bernstein 's dear mother ? 
Harry was enraptured , and Maria surprised . 
-- so coaxing my father , and mother , and your grandfather , Harry Warrington ; and there were eels for supper , as we have had them to-night , and it was that dish of collared eels which brought the circumstance back to my mind . 
I scolded my sister , Castlewood : I scolded her children , I boxed Harry Warrington 's ears , and all because he would not go with me to Tunbridge Wells . '' 
Harry drew pictures with his finger on the table . 
What delights had he not been speculating on ? 
What walks , what rides , what interminable conversations , what delicious shrubberies and sweet sequestered summer-houses , what poring over music-books , what moonlight , what billing and cooing , had he not imagined ! 
`` I knew it could n't be , '' thought poor Harry . 
Harry Warrington hoped the company did not see how red he grew . 
He tried to keep his voice calm and without tremor . 
Yes , he would ride with their ladyships , and he was sure they need fear no danger . 
Harry felt he would rather like danger than not . 
He would slay ten thousand highwaymen if they approached his mistress 's coach . 
At least , he would ride by that coach , and now and again see her eyes at the window . 
He might not speak to her ; but he should be near her . 
He should press the blessed hand at the inn at night , and feel it reposing on his as he led her to the carriage at morning . 
They would be two whole days going to Tunbridge , and one day or two he might stay there . 
You see , we have only indicated , we have not chosen to describe , at length , Mr. Harry Warrington 's condition , or that utter depth of imbecility into which the poor young wretch was now plunged . 
Suppose thou art making an ass of thyself , young Harry Warrington , of Virginia ! 
Kick and abuse him , you who have never brayed ; but bear with him , all honest fellow-cardophagi ; long-eared messmates , recognise a brother donkey ! 
Harry bowed an acquiescence . 
I sha n't need company , '' sighed out Harry . 
I mean that I shall be quite contented in the company of you two ladies , '' he added , eagerly ; and no doubt Mr. Will wondered at his cousin 's taste . 
As this was to be the last night of Cousin Harry 's present visit to Castlewood , Cousin Will suggested that he , and his Reverence , and Warrington should meet at the quarters of the latter and make up accounts , to which process , Harry , being a considerable winner in his play transactions with the two gentlemen , had no objection . 
Accordingly , when the ladies retired for the night , and my lord withdrew -- as his custom was -- to his own apartments , the three gentlemen all found themselves assembled in Mr. Harry 's little room before the punch-bowl , which was Will 's usual midnight companion . 
But Will 's method of settling accounts was by producing a couple of fresh packs of cards , and offering to submit Harry 's debt to the process of being doubled or acquitted . 
Harry Warrington wanted to win the money of neither . 
Would he give pain to the brother of his adored Maria , or allow any one of her near kinsfolk to tax him with any want of generosity or forbearance ? 
He was ready to give them their revenge , as the gentlemen proposed . 
Up to midnight he would play with them for what stakes they chose to name . 
Very likely he did not think about the cards at all . 
Very likely he was thinking ; -- ` At this moment , my beloved one is sitting with her beauteous golden locks outspread under the fingers of her maid . 
But this was , by no means , Harry Warrington 's notion . 
When he was at home he had taken a part in scores of such games as these -LRB- whereby we may be led to suppose that he kept many little circumstances of his life mum from his lady mother -RRB- , and had learned to play and pay . 
And as he practised fair play towards his friends he expected it from them in return . 
`` The luck does seem to be with me , Cousin , '' he said , in reply to some more oaths and growls of Will , `` and I am sure I do not want to press it ; but you do n't suppose I am going to be such a fool as to fling it away altogether ? 
Harry took the offers of both gentlemen . 
Mr. Harry Warrington was quite calm , and not the least elated by his triumph . 
They had asked him to play , and he had played . 
He knew he should win . 
he thought , am I not sure of victory when you are kind to me ? 
He was looking out from his window towards the casement on the opposite side of the court , which he knew to be hers . 
He had forgot about his victims and their groans , and ill-luck , ere they crossed the court . 
Under yonder brilliant flickering star , behind yonder casement where the lamp was burning faintly , was his joy , and heart , and treasure . 
Not only did Harry Warrington leave Castlewood a victim to love , but Gumbo quitted the same premises , a prey to the same delightful passion . 
His wit , accomplishments , good-humour , his skill in dancing , cookery , and music , had endeared him to the whole female domestic circle . 
More than one of the men might be jealous of him , but the ladies all were with him . 
Castlewood was the home of the Baroness 's youth , and as for her honest Harry , who had not only lived at free charges in the house , but had won horses and money -- or promises of money -- from his cousin and the unlucky chaplain , he was naturally of a generous turn , and felt that at this moment he ought not to stint his benevolent disposition . 
`` My mother , I know , '' he thought , `` will wish me to be liberal to all the retainers of the Esmond family . '' 
So he scattered about his gold pieces to right and left , and as if he had been as rich as Gumbo announced him to be . 
There was no one who came near him but had a share in his bounty . 
From the major-domo to the shoe-black , -- Mr. Harry had a peace-offering for them all . 
Harry Warrington , in his way , and according to the customs of that age , had for a brief time past -LRB- by which I conclude that only for a brief time had his love been declared and accepted -RRB- given to the Castlewood family all these artless testimonies of his affection for one of them . 
Cousin Will should have won back his money and welcome , or have won as much of Harry 's own as the lad could spare . 
Having played for and won all the money which Will had , besides a great number of Mr. Esmond 's valuable autographs , Harry was very well pleased to win Will 's brown horse -- that very quadruped which had nearly pushed him into the water on the first evening of his arrival at Castlewood . 
He had seen the horse 's performance often , and , in the midst of all his passion and romance , was not sorry to be possessed of such a sound , swift , well-bred hunter and roadster . 
Gumbo and his master were both affected by the fellow 's sensibility ; the negro servant showing his sympathy by weeping , and Harry by producing a couple of guineas , with which he astonished and speedily comforted the chaplain 's boy . 
Her Lady Maria followed in a riding-dress , which Harry Warrington thought the most becoming costume in the world . 
Gumbo was gone for Mr. Warrington 's horses , as my lord , with his arm under his young guest 's , paced up and down the court . 
Harry blushed . 
`` A gentleman can not refuse a fair game at the cards , '' he said . 
Harry 's mind was away to lovely Maria . 
`` A Virginian learns pretty early to take care of himself , my lord , '' says Harry , with a knowing nod . 
I recommend my sister to thee , Harry . 
cries Harry . 
`` Indeed I will , '' said Harry , his heart beating with happiness at the thought . 
Harry ran up to bid these ladies a farewell . 
He made that ceremony very brief , for he was anxious to be off to the charmer of his heart ; and came down stairs to mount his newly gotten steed , which Gumbo , himself astride on the parson 's black mare , held by the rein . 
cries Harry . 
`` Your honour 's new horse , '' says the groom , touching his cap . 
He is Mr. Warrington 's horse now . 
I sold him to him last night . ' 
My lord could not help breaking into a laugh at these words of Sam the groom , whilst Harry , for his part , indulged in a number more of those remarks which politeness does not admit of our inserting here . 
`` Will has been too much for thee , Harry Warrington . '' 
Ride quickly , or your coaches will be at Farnham before you ; '' and waving him an adieu , my lord entered into the house , whilst Harry and his companion rode out of the courtyard . 
Harry was in such a haste to join the carriages that he almost forgot to take off his hat , and acknowledge the cheers of the Castlewood villagers : they all liked the lad whose frank , cordial ways and honest face got him a welcome in most places . 
The village had heard how the young Virginian squire had beaten Mr. Will at riding , at jumping , at shooting , and finally , at card-playing , for everything is known ; and they respected Harry all the more for this superiority . 
So , leaving the villagers bawling , and their hats tossing in the air , Harry spurred his sorry beast , and galloped , with Gumbo behind him , until he came up with the cloud of dust in the midst of which his charmer 's chariot was enveloped . 
Penetrating into this cloud , he found himself at the window of the carriage . 
The Lady Maria had the back seat to herself ; by keeping a little behind the wheels , he could have the delight of seeing her divine eyes and smiles . 
Harry did not care to disturb the old lady . 
To look at his cousin was bliss enough for him . 
The landscape around him might be beautiful , but what did he heed it ? 
The Baroness 's fat horses were accustomed to short journeys , easy paces , and plenty of feeding ; so that , ill as Harry Warrington was mounted , he could , without much difficulty , keep pace with his elderly kinswoman . 
What price could be too great for the pleasure which he enjoyed in being near his adored Maria , and having the blissful chance of a conversation with her , scarce interrupted by the soft breathing of Madame de Bernstein , who , after a comfortable meal , indulged in an agreeable half-hour 's slumber ? 
In voices soft and low , Maria and her young gentleman talked over and over again those delicious nonsenses which people in Harry 's condition never tire of hearing and uttering . 
They were going to a crowded watering-place , where all sorts of beauty and fashion would be assembled ; timid Maria was certain that amongst the young beauties , Harry would discover some , whose charms were far more worthy to occupy his attention , than any her homely face and figure could boast of . 
By all the gods , Harry vowed , that Venus herself could not tempt him from her side . 
It was he who for his part had occasion to fear . 
When the young men of fashion beheld his peerless Maria they would crowd round her car ; they would cause her to forget the rough and humble American lad who knew nothing of fashion or wit , who had only a faithful heart at her service . 
Maria smiles , she casts her eyes to Heaven , she vows that Harry knows nothing of the truth and fidelity of woman ; it is his sex , on the contrary , which proverbially is faithless , and which delights to play with poor female hearts . 
Surely nothing could be more natural , or indeed necessary , than that Harry , upon hearing his sex 's honour impeached , should seize upon his fair accuser 's hand , and vow eternal fidelity upon those charming fingers ? 
... Maria looks round , for her part , to see if Madame Bernstein has been awakened by the crash of the glass ; but the old lady slumbers quite calmly in her arm-chair , so her niece thinks there can be no harm in yielding to Harry 's gentle pressure . 
When my landlord enters with the bill , Harry is standing quite at a distance from his cousin , looking from the window at the cavalcade gathering below . 
With what profound care and reverential politeness Mr. Warrington hands his aunt to her carriage ! 
The landlord goes back to his friends at the club , to tell how the great folks are going to sleep at the Bush , at Farnham , to-night . 
Harry had the appetite natural to his period of life . 
She reclined at ease on her seat of the landau , and looked back affably , and smiled at Harry and exchanged a little talk with him as he rode by the carriage side . 
Her complexion , which was exceedingly fair , was farther ornamented with a pair of red cheeks , which Harry took to be natural roses . 
Harry was alarmed at the agony depicted in the charmer 's countenance ; which not only exhibited pain , but was exceedingly unbecoming . 
When they reached the Bush Inn at Farnham , under which name a famous inn has stood in Farnham town for these three hundred years -- the dear invalid retired with her maid to her bedroom : scarcely glancing a piteous look at Harry as she retreated , and leaving the lad 's mind in a strange confusion of dismay and sympathy . 
Those yellow , yellow cheeks , those livid wrinkled eyelids , that ghastly red -- how ill his blessed Maria looked ! 
He tried to shut the idea out from his mind . 
He had little appetite for supper , though the jolly Baroness partook of that repast as if she had had no dinner ; and certainly as if she had no sympathy with her invalid niece . 
Will you play picquet with me , Harry ? '' 
Harry was happy to be able to play picquet with his aunt . 
Had a dentist been extracting Harry 's own grinders at that moment , would he have been expected to mind his cards , and deal them neatly ? 
Beyond that little question regarding the cards , Harry 's Inquisitor did not show the smallest disturbance . 
Madame Bernstein did not give one more stab to her niece that night : but she played at cards , and prattled with Harry , indulging in her favourite talk about old times , and parting from him with great cordiality and good humour . 
Very likely he did not heed her stories . 
Very likely other thoughts occupied his mind . 
She looked appealingly in Harry 's face . 
He remarked , with his usual brilliancy and originality , that he was very glad her ladyship was better . 
Why , at the tone of his voice , did she start , and again gaze at him with frightened eyes ? 
And so the day sped on -- sunshiny and brilliant overhead , but all over clouds for Harry and Maria . 
He saw nothing : he thought of Virginia : he remembered how he had been in love with Parson Broadbent 's daughter at Jamestown , and how quickly that business had ended . 
He longed vaguely to be at home again . 
Did they not all mean to trick him ? 
Were they not all scheming against him ? 
`` Let me go to him ! 
let me go to him ! '' 
It was that Will 's horse had come down on his knees and nose , had sent his rider over his head , and Mr. Harry , who ought to have known better , was lying on his own face quite motionless . 
Gumbo , who had been dallying with the maids of the second carriage , clattered up , and mingled his howls with Lady Maria 's lamentations . 
`` He is dead -- he is dead ! '' 
N6310037 LEST any tender-hearted reader should be in alarm for Mr. Harry Warrington 's safety , and fancy that his broken-kneed horse had carried him altogether out of this life and history , let us set her mind easy at the beginning of this chapter , by assuring her that nothing very serious has happened . 
No , my dear ; Mr. Warrington was ill yesterday , but to-day he is very comfortable ; and our Doctor , who is no less a person than my dear husband , Colonel Lambert , has blooded him , has set his shoulder , which was dislocated , and pronounces that in two days more Mr. Warrington will be quite ready to take the road . 
I fear , I and my girls are sorry that he is so soon to be well . 
When he is well enough , my Colonel will ride with him as far as Westerham , but on his own horses , where an old army-comrade of Mr. Lambert 's resides . 
Harry Warrington 's countenance was so stamped in his youth . 
His eyes were so bright , his cheek so red and healthy , his look so frank and open , that almost all who beheld him , nay , even those who cheated him , trusted him . 
You may see , by the above letter of Mrs. Lambert , that she , like all good women -LRB- and , indeed , almost all bad women -RRB- , was a sentimental person ; and , as she looked at Harry Warrington laid in her best bed , after the Colonel had bled him and clapped in his shoulder , as holding by her husband 's hand she beheld the lad in a sweet slumber , murmuring a faint inarticulate word or two in his sleep , a faint blush quivering on his cheek , she owned he was a pretty lad indeed , and confessed with a sort of compunction that neither of her two boys -- Jack who was at Oxford , and Charles who was just gone back to school after the Bartlemytide holidays -- was half so handsome as the Virginian . 
That first night of his stay at Oakhurst , Harry Warrington , who had had a sleeping potion , and was awake sometimes rather feverish , thought he heard the evening hymn , and that his dearest brother George was singing it at home , in which delusion the patient went off again to sleep . 
asked Harry , looking a little blank . 
I remember , '' says Harry , looking at his bandaged arm . 
`` Will Mr. Warrington get up after he has had his breakfast ? 
cries Harry , looking at a fine china vase full of them that stood on the toilet-table under the japan-framed glass . 
His little accident , illness and recovery , the kindness of the people round about him , had softened Harry Warrington 's heart , and opened it to better influences than those which had been brought to bear on it for some six weeks past . 
He was breathing a purer air than that tainted atmosphere of selfishness , and worldliness , and corruption , into which he had been plunged since his arrival in England . 
Sometimes the young man 's fate , or choice , or weakness , leads him into the fellowship of the giddy and vain ; happy he , whose lot makes him acquainted with the wiser company , whose lamps are trimmed , and whose pure hearts keep modest watch . 
He was ready to talk now more freely than usually was his custom ; for , unless excited by a strong interest or emotion , the young man was commonly taciturn and cautious in his converse with his fellows , and was by no means of an imaginative turn . 
Harry 's host , who had considerable shrewdness , and experience of books , and cattle , and men , was pretty soon able to take the measure of his young guest in the talk which they now had together . 
It was now , for the first time , the Virginian learned that Mrs. Lambert had been an early friend of his mother 's , and that the Colonel 's own father had served with Harry 's grandfather , Colonel Esmond , in the famous wars of Queen Anne . 
`` My boys are both away , '' said Harry 's host , `` or they would have shown you the country when you got up , Mr. Warrington . 
`` Do you think , '' asks Harry 's host , `` that the French Indians had the good cause in the fight of last year ? '' 
cried Harry , clenching his fist . 
cried Harry ; `` if His Royal Highness the Prince had not turned back at Derby , your king and mine , now , would be his Majesty King James the Third ! '' 
`` I might be safe amongst my own kinsmen , surely , sir , '' cried Harry . 
cried out Harry , turning very red . 
Very soon after this little colloquy , Mr. Lambert 's guest rose , with the assistance of Gumbo , his valet , to whom he , for a hundredth time at least , promised a sound caning if ever he should hear that Gumbo had ventured to talk about his affairs again in the servants ' hall , -- which prohibition Gumbo solemnly vowed and declared he would for ever obey ; but I daresay he was chattering the whole of the Castlewood secrets to his new friends of Colonel Lambert 's kitchen ; for Harry 's hostess certainly heard a number of stories concerning him which she could not prevent her housekeeper from telling ; though of course I would not accuse that worthy lady , or any of her sex or ours , of undue curiosity regarding their neighbours ' affairs . 
But what surgeon could have ministered more cleverly to a patient than Harry 's host , who tended him without a fee , or what Boniface could make him more comfortably welcome ? 
His toilette completed with Mr. Gumbo 's aid , his fair hair neatly dressed by that artist , and his open ribboned sleeve and wounded shoulder supported by a handkerchief which hung from his neck , Harry Warrington made his way out of his sick chamber , preceded by his kind host , who led him first down a broad oak stair , round which hung many pikes and muskets of ancient shape , and so into a square marble paved room , from which the living-rooms of the house branched off . 
`` They fought against your grandfathers and King Charles , Mr. Warrington , '' said Harry 's host . 
Indeed , Harry 's face manifested signs of anything but pleasure whilst he examined the portraits of the Parliamentary heroes . 
Harry Warrington was not over head and ears in love with her at an instant 's warning and faithless to -- to that other individual with whom , as we have seen , the youth had lately been smitten . 
the Colonel continued to Harry , seeing by the boy 's face that the latter had no great love or comprehension of his favourite humour . 
I never heard of either one of 'em , '' said Harry , hanging down his head . 
So , from the way in which Theo held her head down , and exchanged looks with her mother , when poor unconscious Harry called the Persians the Prussians , and talked of serving a campaign with them , I make no doubt she was feeling ashamed , and thinking within herself , `` Is this the hero with whom my mamma and I have been in love for these twenty-four hours , and whom we have endowed with every perfection ? 
When she lighted the lamp and looked at him , did Psyche find Cupid out ; and is that the meaning of the old allegory ? 
Simple Harry Warrington meanwhile knew nothing of all the jokes , the tears , quarrels , reconciliations , hymeneal plans , and so forth , of which he was the innocent occasion . 
A hundred allusions to the Prussians and Persians were shot at him , and those Parthian arrows did not penetrate his hide at all . 
How should Harry know the effect which his sudden appearance produced in this little , quiet , sentimental family ? 
He thought quite well enough of himself on many points , but was diffident as yet regarding women , being of that age when young gentlemen require encouragement and to be brought forward , and having been brought up at home in very modest and primitive relations towards the other sex . 
As these sisters sate and combed their flowing ringlets of nights , or talked with each other in the great bed where according to the fashion of the day they lay together , how should Harry know that he had so great a share in their thoughts , jokes , conversation ? 
Three days after his arrival , his new and hospitable friends were walking with him in my Lord Wrotham 's fine park , where they were free to wander ; and here , on a piece of water , they came to some swans , which the young ladies were in the habit of feeding with bread . 
One little phrase , some five and-thirty lines back , perhaps the fair and suspicious reader has remarked : `` Three days after his arrival , Harry was walking with , '' & c. , & c . 
What if Harry Warrington should be that sailor , and his fate that choking , deadening , inevitable old man ? 
What if for two days past he has felt those knees throttling him round the neck ? 
if his fell aunt 's purpose is answered , and if his late love is killed as dead by her poisonous communications as Fair Rosamond was by her royal and legitimate rival ? 
Harry Warrington , who would not have allowed his dislocated and mended shoulder to keep him from going out hunting , remained day after day contentedly at Oakhurst , with each day finding the kindly folks who welcomed him more to his liking . 
Perhaps he had never , since his grandfather 's death , been in such good company . 
His lot had lain amongst fox-hunting Virginian squires , with whose society he had put up very contentedly , riding their horses , living their lives , and sharing their punch-bowls . 
The ladies of his own and mother 's acquaintance were very well bred , and decorous , and pious , no doubt , but somewhat narrow-minded . 
It was but a little place , his home , with its pompous ways , small etiquettes and punctilios , small flatteries , small conversations and scandals . 
Until he had left the place , some time after , he did not know how narrow and confined his life had been there . 
He was free enough personally . 
He had dogs and horses , and might shoot and hunt for scores of miles round about : but the little lady mother domineered at home , and when there he had to submit to her influence and breathe her air . 
One of the great benefits which Harry Warrington received from this family , before whose gate Fate had shot him , was to begin to learn that he was a profoundly ignorant young fellow , and that there were many people in the world far better than he knew himself to be . 
Arrogant a little with some folks , in the company of his superiors he was magnanimously docile . 
We have seen how faithfully he admired his brother at home , and his friend , the gallant young Colonel of Mount Vernon : of the gentlemen , his kinsmen at Castlewood , he had felt himself at least the equal . 
In his new acquaintance at Oakhurst he found a man who had read far more books than Harry could pretend to judge of , who had seen the world and come unwounded out of it , as he had out of the dangers and battles which he had confronted , and who had goodness and honesty written on his face and breathing from his lips , for which qualities our brave lad had always an instinctive sympathy and predilection . 
As for the women , they were the kindest , merriest , most agreeable he had as yet known . 
How good Harry Warrington did not know at the time , perhaps , or until subsequent experience showed him contrasts , or caused him to feel remorse . 
He was not in love ; O no ! 
not the least , either with saucy Hetty or generous Theodosia : but when the time came for going away , he fastened on both their hands , and felt an immense regard for them . 
He thought he should like to know their brothers , and that they must be fine fellows ; and as for Mrs. Lambert , I believe she was as sentimental at his departure as if he had been the last volume of Clarissa Harlowe . 
`` He is very kind and honest , '' said Theo , gravely , as , looking from the terrace , they saw him and their father and servants riding away on the road to Westerham . 
`` I do n't think him stupid at all now , '' said little Hetty ; `` and , mamma , I think , he is very like a swan indeed . '' 
`` I am glad he has got papa to ride with him to Westerham , '' resumed Miss Hetty , `` and that he bought Farmer Brigg 's horse . 
I do n't like his going to those Castlewood people . 
`` I feel quite like a mother to him my dears , I ca n't help owning it , -- and you know both our boys still like one of our cakes to take to school or college with them . '' 
said Harry Warrington , with a sigh of great humility ; `` I feel that I have neglected my own youth sadly ; and am come to England but an ignoramus . 
Harry looked with some curiosity at this officer , who , young as he was , had seen so much service , and obtained a character so high . 
Wolfe was in a hurry to reach the place , Harry Warrington was , perhaps , not quite so eager : nay , when Lambert rode towards his own home , Harry 's thoughts followed him with a great deal of longing desire to the parlour at Oakhurst , where he had spent three days in happy calm . 
Mr. Wolfe agreed in all Harry 's enthusiastic praises of Mr. Lambert , and of his wife , and of his daughters , and of all that excellent family . 
Harry imagined to himself the picture which his comrade called up . 
He said `` yes '' in answer to the other 's remark ; but , no doubt , did not give a very cheerful assent , for his companion observed upon the expression of his face . 
A pleasant afternoon brought them to the end of their ride ; nor did any accident or incident accompany it , save , perhaps , a mistake which Harry Warrington made at some few miles distance from Tunbridge Wells , where two horsemen stopped them , whom Harry was for charging , pistol in hand , supposing them to be highwaymen . 
Mr. Warrington found his aunt installed in handsome lodgings , with a guard of London lacqueys in her ante-room , and to follow her chair when she went abroad . 
She received him with the utmost kindness . 
His cousin my Lady Maria was absent when he arrived : I do n't know whether the young gentleman was unhappy at not seeing her : or whether he disguised his feelings , or whether Madame de Bernstein took any note regarding them . 
A beau in a rich figured suit , the first specimen of the kind Harry had seen , and two dowagers with voluminous hoops and plenty of rouge , were on a visit to the Baroness when her nephew made his bow to her . 
asked Harry . 
Harry had never heard about Lord Castlewood or his reputation . 
A few days before , and while staying with his Castlewood relatives , Harry , who loved cards , and cock-fighting , and betting , and every conceivable sport himself , would have laughed very likely at this confession . 
Amongst that family into whose society he had fallen , many things were laughed at , over which some folks looked grave . 
`` They were very kind ; and it was not at all dull , ma'am , and I think they are some of the best people in the world , '' said Harry , with his face flushing up . 
His aunt 's tone jarred upon him . 
He could not bear that any one should speak or think lightly of the new friends whom he had found . 
He did not want them in such company . 
`` Where are you going to dine , Harry ? '' 
She liked Harry none the worse for his courage in facing her . 
Harry bowed and blushed . 
It was one of the homely gifts of his Oakhurst friends . 
He felt pleased somehow to think he wore it ; thought of the new friends , so good , so pure , so simple , so kindly , with immense tenderness , and felt , while invested in this garment , as if evil could not touch him . 
He said he would go to his lodging , and make a point of returning arrayed in the best linen he had . 
Harry found not only handsome and spacious apartments provided for him , but a groom in attendance waiting to be engaged by his honour , and a second valet , if he was inclined to hire one to wait upon Mr. Gumbo . 
Here he expected to find the beau whose acquaintance he had made a few hours before at his Aunt 's lodging , and who had indicated to Harry that the White Horse was the most modish place for dining at the Wells , and he mentioned his friend 's name to the host : but the landlord and waiters leading him into the room with many smiles and bows assured his honour that his honour did not need any other introduction than his own , helped him to hang up his coat and sword on a peg , asked him whether he would drink Burgundy , Pontac , or Champagne to his dinner , and led him to a table . 
Though the most fashionable ordinary in the village , the White Horse , did not happen to be crowded on this day , Monsieur Barbeau , the landlord , informed Harry that there was a great entertainment at Summer Hill , which had taken away most of the company ; indeed , when Harry entered the room , there were but four other gentlemen in it . 
Two of these guests were drinking wine , and had finished their dinner : the other two were young men in the midst of their meal , to whom the landlord , as he passed , must have whispered the name of the new comer , for they looked at him with some appearance of interest , and made him a slight bow across the table as the smiling host bustled away for Harry 's dinner . 
Mr. Warrington returned the salute of the two gentlemen who bade him welcome to Tunbridge , and hoped he would like the place upon better acquaintance . 
Then they smiled and exchanged waggish looks with each other , of which Harry did not understand the meaning , nor why they cast knowing glances at the two other guests over their wine . 
A smoking soup for Harry here came in , borne by the smiling host . 
says my landlord , laying down the dish and whispering to Harry the celebrated name of the nobleman opposite . 
Harry thanked Monsieur Barbeau in his own language , upon which the foreign gentleman , turning round , grinned most graciously at Harry , and said , `` Fous bossedez notre langue barfaidement , Monsieur , '' Mr. Warrington had never heard the French language pronounced in that manner in Canada . 
He bowed in return to the foreign gentleman . 
`` Tell me more about the Croesus , my good Baron , '' continued his lordship , speaking rather superciliously to his companion , and taking no notice of Harry , which perhaps somewhat nettled the young man . 
It was only when the person addressed as my lord had begun to speak of the bishop 's widow and the German baron 's wife that Harry Warrington was aware how his Aunt and himself had been the subject of the two gentlemen 's conversation . 
Ere the conviction had settled itself on his mind , one of the speakers had quitted the room , and the other turning to a table at which two gentlemen sate , said , `` What a little sharper it is ! 
called out Harry from his table . 
The other couple of diners looked at him . 
To his surprise the nobleman so addressed went on talking . 
`` My lord 's pale face became red for a moment , as he asked this question , and looked towards Harry Warrington opposite to him . 
`` And to whom your lordship will be answerable for language reflecting upon my family , and uttered in the presence of these gentlemen , '' cried out Mr. Warrington , at the top of his voice , determined that his opponent should hear . 
Whilst Harry was speaking , the little nobleman opposite to him did not hear him , but had time sufficient to arrange his own reply . 
To these words , Mr. Warrington could only make a bow , and mumble out a few words of acknowledgement : which speech having made believe to hear , my lord made Harry another very profound bow , and saying he should have the honour of waiting upon Mr. Warrington at his lodgings , saluted the company , and went away . 
He loves gambling , he loves horse racing , he loves betting , he loves drinking , he loves eating , he loves money , he loves women ; and you have fallen into bad company , Mr. Warrington , when you lighted upon his lordship . 
He will play you for every acre you have in Virginia . '' 
I will set Mr. Warrington for what he likes . '' 
Harry blushed , and owned that of an evening his cousin and he had had a few games at cards . 
`` I did not say anything about miracles , '' remarked Mr. Harry , smiling over his wine . 
`` I beg your pardon , '' said downright Harry , `` French is the only language besides my own of which I know a little . '' 
`` I do n't care about the Opera much , my lord , '' says Harry , warming with his wine ; `` but I should like to go to Newmarket , and long to see a good English hunting-field . '' 
`` I think I can , '' Harry said ; `` and I can shoot pretty well , and jump some . '' 
`` I do n't know Mr. Morris 's shooting -- I never saw either gentleman before -- but I take your bets , my lord , at what you please , '' cries Harry , who by this time was more than warm with Burgundy . 
cried my lord and Harry together . 
The young man thought it was for the honour of his country not to be ashamed of any bet made to him . 
Harry had more respect for his garments . 
It was his best suit . 
He took off the velvet coat and waistcoat , folded them up daintily , and , as the two or three tables round were slopped with drink , went to place the clothes on a table in the eating-room , of which the windows were open . 
Harry was in high spirits . 
He told the Colonel he had a bet with my Lord March -- would Colonel Wolfe stand him halves ? 
`` Take him , Colonel , '' Harry whispers to his friend . 
I bet you you weigh twice as much as he does ! '' 
Having already arrayed himself in his best silk stockings , black sattin-net breeches , and neatest pumps , Harry did not care to take off his shoes as his antagonist had done , whose heavy riding-boots and spurs were , to be sure , little calculated for leaping . 
`` It seemed as if he wished everybody to know , '' writes Harry sagaciously to Mrs. Mountain , `` that his friend and companion was an Erl ! '' 
M. Poellnitz , no finer dressed than he had been at dinner , grinned , and saluted with his great laced hat and tarnished feathers . 
Harry ran forward to look at the old gentleman toddling along the walk with a train of admiring ladies surrounding him . 
`` Even he has his faults and errors ! 
Even his age and experience does not prevent him from stumbl -- . 
Harry came back quite glowing and proud at having a bow from him . 
says he , `` my lord , I am glad to have seen him ! '' 
`` My brother declared that he , and Mr. Fielding , I think , was the name , were the greatest geniuses in England ; and often used to say , that when we came to Europe , his first pilgrimage would be to Mr. Richardson , '' cried Harry , always impetuous , honest , and tender , when he spoke of the dearest friend . 
asked Harry , as a fantastically-dressed lady came up , and performed a curtsey and a compliment to the bowing printer . 
Jack Morris nervously struck Harry a blow in the side with the butt-end of his whip . 
`` I suppose , '' says Harry simply , `` his Lordship is here in attendance upon the old lady ? '' 
`` I am but lately arrived in England , Mr. Morris , '' said Harry , with a smile , `` and in Virginia , I own , we have not heard much about the little Opera-dancer . '' 
She stopped opposite to Harry ; she held out her hand rather to his wonderment : `` Have you so soon forgotten me , Mr. Warrington ? '' 
Off went Harry 's hat in an instant . 
He started , blushed , stammered , and called out Good Heavens ! 
He had not been thinking about her . 
She was , to say truth , for the moment so utterly out of the young gentleman 's mind , that her sudden re-entry there and appearance in the body startled Mr. Warrington 's faculties , and caused those guilty blushes to crowd into his cheeks . 
He was not even thinking of her ! 
A week ago -- a year , a hundred years ago it seemed -- he would not have been surprised to meet her anywhere . 
Appearing from amidst darkling shrubberies , gliding over green garden terraces , loitering on stairs , or corridors , hovering even in his dreams , all day , or all night bodily or spiritually , he had been accustomed to meet her . 
A week ago his heart used to beat . 
A week ago , and at the very instant when he jumped out of his sleep there was her idea smiling on him . 
And it was only last Tuesday that his love was stabbed and slain , and he not only had left off mourning for her , but had forgotten her ! 
`` You know , '' said Harry , `` I do n't care about any music much except '' -- he was thinking of the evening hymn -- `` except of your playing . '' 
He turned very red again as he spoke , he felt he was perjuring himself horribly . 
Harry could not but offer the arm , and press the hand that lay against his heart . 
Maria made another fine curtsey to Harry 's bowing companions , and walked off with her prize . 
There go Harry and Maria taking their evening walk on the common , away from the village which is waking up from its after-dinner siesta , and where the people are beginning to stir and the music to play . 
Come , let us walk a little way over the heath , Harry . 
She will go , though she feels a deadly assurance that he will tell her all is over between them , and that he loves the dark-haired girl at Oakhurst . 
`` O that fall , Harry ! 
I want to make them a present : I must make them a present , '' says Harry , clapping his hand into his pocket , which was filled with the crisp spoils of Morris and March . 
-LRB- The arm under Harry 's here gave a wince perhaps , -- ever so slight a wince . -RRB- 
cries Harry . 
`` No , Harry ! 
And Harry narrated the triumphs which he had just achieved . 
He was in high spirits : he laughed , he bragged a little . 
`` For the honour of Virginia I was determined to show them what jumping was , '' he said . 
`` I do n't intend to be afraid of him , nor of his friend Mr. Jack Morris neither , '' says Harry , again fingering the delightful notes . 
cried Mr. Harry , tossing up his head , `` and a young fellow must have his fling ! '' 
and he strutted by his partner 's side , confident , happy , and eager for pleasure . 
Not long ago , he did like to walk with her . 
Only yesterday , he liked to be with Theo and Hester , and good Mrs. Lambert ; but pleasure , life , gaiety , the desire to shine and to conquer , had also their temptations for the lad , who seized the cup like other lads , and did not care to calculate on the head-ache in store for the morning . 
Harry never asked about that slavery , though he must have known it , had he taken the trouble to think . 
He never pitied his cousin . 
He was not thinking about her at all . 
Yet when his mishap befel him , she had been wounded far more cruelly than he was . 
He had scarce ever been out of her thoughts , which of course she had had to bury under smiling hypocrisies , as is the way with her sex . 
My Lord of March and Ruglen , when he made his appearance , was quite changed from the individual with whom Harry had made acquaintance at the White Horse . 
His tight brown scratch was exchanged for a neatly curled feather top , with a bag and grey powder , his jockey-dress and leather breeches replaced by a rich and elegant French suit . 
`` I hope you are not playing high , Harry ? '' 
My Lord Chesterfield sate opposite Mr. Warrington , sorting his cards . 
No one could say , by inspecting that calm physiognomy whether good or ill fortune was attending his lordship . 
Maria , still fondly lingering by Harry 's chair , with her hand at the back of it , could see his cards , and that a whole covey of trumps was ranged in one corner . 
She had not taken away his luck . 
She was pleased to think she had cut that pack which had dealt him all those pretty trumps . 
He has an estate in Virginia as big as Yorkshire , with the incumbrance of a mother , the reigning Sovereign : but , as the country is unwholesome , and fevers plentiful , let us hope that Mrs. Esmond will die soon , and leave this virtuous lad in undisturbed possession . 
If you can settle our last Epsom account , please hand over to Mr. Warrington # 350 , which I still owe him , after pretty well emptying my pocket-book . 
Chesterfield has dropped six hundred to him , too ; but his lordship does not wish to have it known , having sworn to give up play , and live cleanly . 
Mr. Warrington holds his tongue like a gentleman , and none of us have talked about our losses ; but the whole place does , for us . 
Warrington treated the company to breakfast and music at the rooms ; and you should have seen how the women tore him to pieces . 
In a word , Mr. Warrington has won our money in a very gentleman-like manner ; and , as I like him , and wish to win some of it back again , I put him under your worship 's saintly guardianship . 
People turned round to look after Harry as he passed , and country folks stared at him as they came into market . 
At the rooms , matrons encouraged him to come round to them , and found means to leave him alone with their daughters , most of whom smiled upon him . 
Everybody knew , to an acre and a shilling , the extent of his Virginian property , and the amount of his income . 
So great was the interest and curiosity which Harry inspired , that people even smiled upon his servant , and took Gumbo aside and treated him with ale and cold meat , in order to get news of the young Virginian . 
The lad was not a little amused and astonished by this prosperity , and bore his new honours pretty well . 
He had been bred at home to think ` too well of himself , and his present good fortune no doubt tended to confirm his self-satisfaction . 
But he was not too much elated . 
He did not brag about his victories or give himself any particular airs . 
In engaging in play with the gentlemen who challenged him , he had acted up to his queer code of honour . 
He felt as if he was bound to meet them when they summoned him , and that if they invited him to a horse-race , or a drinking-bout , or a match at cards , for the sake of Old Virginia he must not draw back . 
Mr. Harry found his new acquaintances ready to try him at all these sports and contests . 
He had a strong head , a skilful hand , a firm seat , an unflinching nerve . 
At his books Harry was not brilliant certainly : but he could write as well as a great number of men of fashion ; and the naïveté of his ignorance amused the old lady . 
She superintended with fond pleasure the improvements of Harry 's toilette : rummaged out fine laces for his ruffles and shirt , and found a pretty diamond-brooch for his frill . 
He attained the post of prime favourite of all her nephews and kinsfolk . 
I fear Lady Maria was only too well pleased at the lad 's successes : and did not grudge him his superiority over her brothers : but those gentlemen must have quaked with fear and envy when they heard of Mr. Warrington 's prodigious successes , and the advance which he had made in their wealthy aunt 's favour . 
After a fortnight of Tunbridge , Mr. Harry had become quite a personage . 
He knew all the good company in the place . 
Was it his fault if he became acquainted with the bad likewise ? 
Was he very wrong in taking the world as he found it , and drinking from that sweet sparkling pleasure-cup , which was filled for him to the brim ? 
The old aunt enjoyed his triumphs , and for her part only bade him pursue his enjoyments . 
If the Cattarina wrote him billets-doux , I fear Aunt Bernstein would have bade him accept the invitations : but the lad had brought with him from his colonial home a stock of modesty which he still wore along with the honest home-spun linen . 
Harry Warrington blushed like a girl at the daring talk of his new European associates : even Aunt Bernstein 's conversation and jokes astounded the young Virginian , so that the worldly old woman would call him Joseph , or simpleton . 
Harry thought there was no harm in giving her his arm , and parading openly with her in the public walks . 
She took a fancy to a trinket at the toyshop ; and , as his pockets were full of money , he was delighted to make her a present of the locket , which she coveted . 
The next day it was a piece of lace : again Harry gratified her . 
`` Why , my dear , '' says the Baroness , `` boys will be boys , and I do n't want Harry to be the first milksop in his family ! '' 
Mr. Wolfe was for ever coming over from Westerham to pay court to the lady of his love ; and , knowing that the Colonel was entirely engaged in that pursuit , Mr. Warrington scarcely expected to see much of him , however much he liked that officer 's conversation and society . 
It was different from the talk of the ribald people round about Harry . 
Harry then did not remark how Colonel Wolfe avoided him , or when they casually met , at first , notice the Colonel 's cold and altered demeanour . 
Poor Harry did not know the reputation he was getting ; and that , whilst he was riding his horse and playing his game and taking his frolic , he was passing amongst many respectable persons for being the most abandoned and profligate and godless of young men . 
Lambert was obliged to tell a part of what he knew about Harry Warrington . 
So did those kind , wretched Oakhurst folks believe what they heard about poor Harry Warrington . 
Harry Warrington meanwhile was a great deal too well pleased with himself to know how ill his friends were thinking of him , and was pursuing a very idle and pleasant , if unprofitable , life , without having the least notion of the hubbub he was creating , and the dreadful repute in which he was held by many good men . 
Coming out from a match at tennis with Mr. Batts , and pleased with his play and all the world , Harry overtook Colonel Wolfe , who had been on one of his visits to the lady of his heart . 
Harry held out his hand , which the Colonel took , but the latter 's salutation was so cold , that the young man could not help remarking it , and especially noting how Mr. Wolfe , in return for a fine bow from Mr. Batts 's hat , scarcely touched his own with his forefinger . 
The tennis Captain walked away looking somewhat disconcerted , Harry remaining behind to talk with his friend of Westerham . 
`` I have not seen you these many days , '' says Harry . 
asked Harry . 
`` Why , sure , they are men of the first rank and fashion in England , '' cries Harry , not choosing to be offended with his companion 's bluntness . 
`` You ought to know best , sir , '' says the other , looking at Harry with some surprise , `` or the world belies you very much . '' 
I can talk a little French , and she is welcome to it ; and if Colonel Wolfe does not chose to touch his hat to me , when I am walking with her , by George he may leave it alone , '' cried Harry , flushing up . 
asked Harry Warrington ; and such stories as he knew the Colonel told . 
Of course , Harry was eager to accept his friend 's apology , and they shook hands with sincere cordiality this time . 
In respect of most of the charges brought against him , Harry rebutted them easily enough : as for the play , he owned to it . 
He thought that a gentleman should not refuse a fair challenge from other gentlemen , if his means allowed him : and he never would play beyond his means . 
After winning considerably at first , he could afford to play large stakes , for he was playing with other people 's money . 
Play he thought was fair , -- it certainly was pleasant . 
Had he not seen the best company at the Wells over the cards -- his aunt amongst them ? 
Mr. Wolfe made no immediate comment upon Harry 's opinion as to the person who formed the best company at the Wells , but he frankly talked with the young man , whose own frankness had won him , and warned him that the life he was leading might be the pleasantest , but surely was not the most profitable of lives . 
But Harry did not like to tell his aunt that afternoon why it was he looked so grave . 
He thought he would not drink , but there were some jolly fellows at the ordinary who passed the bottle round ; and he meant not to play in the evening , but a fourth was wanted at his aunt 's table , and how could he resist ? 
He was the old lady 's partner several times during the night , and he had Somebody 's own luck to be sure ; and once more he saw the dawn , and feasted on chickens and champagne at sunrise . 
At Harry 's age almost all places are pleasant , where you can have lively company , fresh air , and your share of sport and diversion . 
I am not disposed to look so severely upon young Harry 's conduct and idleness , as his friend the stern Colonel of the Twentieth Regiment . 
My Lord of March went away to the North ; and my Lord Chesterfield , finding the Tunbridge waters did no good to his deafness , returned to his solitude at Blackheath ; but other gentlemen remained to sport and take their pleasure , and Mr. Warrington had quite enough of companions at his ordinary at the White Horse . 
He soon learned to order a French dinner as well as the best man of fashion out of St. James 's ; could talk to Monsieur Barbeau , in Monsieur B. 's native language , much more fluently than most other folks , -- discovered a very elegant and decided taste in wines , and could distinguish between Clos Vougeot and Romancé with remarkable skill . 
He was the young King of the Wells , of which the general frequenters were easy-going men of the world , who were , by no means , shocked at that reputation for gallantry and extravagance which Harry had got , and which had so frightened Mr. Wolfe . 
For instance , when that unhappy little Cattarina , who had brought him into so much trouble , carried her importunities beyond the mark at which Harry thought his generosity should stop ; he withdrew from the advances of the Opera-House Syren with perfect coolness and skill , leaving her to exercise her blandishments upon some more easy victim . 
In vain the mermaid 's hysterical mother waited upon Harry , and vowed that a cruel bailiff had seized all her daughter 's goods for debt , and that her venerable father was at present languishing in a London gaol . 
Harry declared that between himself and the bailiff there could be no dealings , and that because he had had the good fortune to become known to Mademoiselle Cattarina , and to gratify her caprices by presenting her with various trinkets and knickknacks for which she had a fancy , he was not bound to pay the past debts of her family , and must decline being bail for her papa in London , or settling her outstanding accounts at Tunbridge . 
Then Harry had his perils of gaming , as well as his perils of gallantry . 
After dinner at the ordinary , having declined to play picquet any further with Captain Batts , and being roughly asked his reason for refusing , Harry fairly told the Captain that he only played with gentlemen who paid , like himself : but expressed himself so ready to satisfy Mr. Batts , as soon as their outstanding little account was settled that the Captain declared himself satisfied d'avance , and straightway left the Wells without paying Harry or any other creditor . 
Also he had an occasion to show his spirit by beating a chairman who was rude to old Miss Whiffler one evening as she was going to the assembly : and finding that the calumny regarding himself and that unlucky opera-dancer was repeated by Mr. Hector Buckler , one of the fiercest frequenters of the Wells , Mr. Warrington stepped up to Mr. Buckler in the pump-room , where the latter was regaling a number of water-drinkers with the very calumny , and publicly informed Mr. Buckler that the story was a falsehood , and that he should hold any person accountable to himself who henceforth uttered it . 
Never had the little family been so happy -- no , not even when they got the news of Brother Tom winning his scholarship , as when Colonel Wolfe rode over with the account of the conversation which he had with Harry Warrington . 
HAVING repaired one day to his accustomed dinner at the White Horse Ordinary , Mr. Warrington was pleased to see amongst the faces round the table the jolly good-looking countenance of Parson Sampson , who was regaling the company when Harry entered , with stories and bons mots , which kept them in roars of laughter . 
Though he had not been in London for some months , the Parson had the latest London news , or what passed for such with the folks at the Ordinary : what was doing in the King 's house at Kensington ; and what in the Duke 's in Pall Mall : how Mr. Byng was behaving in prison , and who came to him : what were the odds at New Market , and who was the last reigning toast in Covent Garden ; -- the jolly Chaplain could give the company news upon all these points , -- news that might not be very accurate indeed , but was as good as if it were for the country gentlemen who heard it . 
that it was Harry Hilton , of the Horse Grenadiers , who had the quarrel with Chevalier Solingen , at Marybone Garden , and not Tommy Ruffler , of the Foot Guards ? 
It may have been modesty , or it may have been claret , which caused his reverence 's rosy face to redden deeper , but when he saw Mr. Warrington enter , he whispered maxima debetur to the laughing country squire who sat next him in his drab coat and gold-laced red waistcoat , and rose up from his chair and ran , nay , stumbled forward , in his haste to greet the Virginian : `` My dear sir , my very dear sir , my conqueror of spades , and clubs , and hearts , too , I am delighted to see your honour looking so fresh and well , '' cries the Chaplain . 
Harry returned the clergyman 's greeting with great pleasure : He was glad to see Mr. Sampson ; he could also justly compliment his reverence upon his cheerful looks and rosy gills . 
The Chaplain asked pardon , hurriedly turned round to Mr. Warrington , and informed him , and the rest of the company indeed , that my Lord Castlewood sent his affectionate remembrances to his cousin , and had given special orders to him -LRB- Mr. Sampson -RRB- to come to Tunbridge Wells and look after the young gentleman 's morals ; that my Lady Viscountess and my Lady Fanny were gone to Harrowgate for the waters ; that Mr. Will had won his money at New Market , and was going on a visit to my Lord Duke ; that Molly , the housemaid , was crying her eyes out about Gumbo , Mr. Warrington 's valet ; -- in fine , all the news of Castlewood and its neighbourhood . 
`` All Hampshire had heard of his successes at Tunbridge , successes of every kind , '' says Mr. Sampson , looking particularly arch ; my lord hoped , their ladyships hoped , Harry would not be spoilt for his quiet Hampshire home . 
`` Though I have had plenty , '' says the jolly Chaplain , `` that is no reason why I should not have plenty more , '' and he drank toast after toast , and bumper after bumper , to the amusement of Harry , who always enjoyed his society . 
By the time when Sampson had had his `` plenty more , '' Harry , too , was become specially generous , warm-hearted , and friendly . 
-- why should Mr. Sampson go to the expense of an inn , when there was a room at Harry 's quarters ? 
The Chaplain 's trunk was ordered thither , Gumbo was bidden to make Mr. Sampson comfortable -- most comfortable ; nothing would satisfy Mr. Warrington but that Sampson should go down to his stables and see his horses ; he had several horses now ; and when at the stable Sampson recognised his own horse , which Harry had won from him ; and the fond beast whinnied with pleasure , and rubbed his nose against his old master 's coat ; Harry rapped out a brisk energetic expression or two , and vowed by Jupiter that Sampson should have his old horse back again : He would give him to Sampson , that he would ; a gift which the Chaplain accepted by seizing Harry 's hand , and blessing him , -- by flinging his arms round the horse 's neck , and weeping for joy there , weeping tears of Bordeaux and gratitude . 
I suppose it must have been from Harry Warrington , whose heart was overflowing with generosity as his purse with guineas , that the Chaplain procured a small stock of ready coin , with which he was presently enabled to appear at the card-table . 
`` With a star and ribbon , and his stocking down , and his hair over his shoulder , he would make a pretty Hamlet , '' said the gay old Duchess Queensberry , `` And I make no doubt he has been the death of a dozen Ophelias already , here and amongst the Indians , '' she added , thinking not at all the worse of Harry for his supposed successes among the fair . 
Harry 's lace and linen were as fine as his aunt could desire . 
He purchased fine shaving-plate of the toyshop women , and a couple of magnificent brocade bed-gowns , in which his worship lolled at ease , and sipped his chocolate of a morning . 
He had swords and walking-canes , and French watches with painted backs and diamond settings , and snuff-boxes enamelled by artists of the same cunning nation . 
He had a levée of grooms , jockeys , tradesmen , daily waiting in his anteroom , and admitted one by one to him and Parson Sampson , over his chocolate , by Gumbo the groom of the chambers . 
Certain it is that no single negro could have taken care of all the fine things which Mr. Warrington now possessed , let alone the horses and the post-chaise which his honour had bought . 
Also Harry instructed himself in the arts which became a gentleman in those days . 
A French fencing-master , and a dancing-master of the same nation , resided at Tunbridge during that season when Harry made his appearance : these men of science the young Virginian sedulously frequented , and acquired considerable skill and grace in the peaceful and warlike accomplishments which they taught . 
As for riding , though Mr. Warrington took a few lessons on the great horse from a riding-master who came to Tunbridge , he declared that their own Virginian manner was well enough for him , and that he saw no one amongst the fine folks and the jockeys who could ride better than his friend Colonel George Washington of Mount Vernon . 
He knew a great deal of the world , and told a great deal more , and Harry was delighted with his stories , real or fancied . 
He became our young friend 's confidential leader , and , from the following letter , which is preserved in the Warrington correspondence , it will be seen that Mr. Harry not only had dancing and fencing-masters , but likewise a tutor , chaplain , and secretary . 
A kiss to Fanny from Your loving Harry . 
Had Harry found some wonderful instructor such as exists in the present lucky times , and who would improve his writing in six lessons ? 
Who knows how he may have been disturbed ? 
A pretty milliner may have attracted Harry 's attention out of window -- a dancing bear with pipe and tabor may have passed along the common -- a jockey come under his windows to show off a horse there ? 
Finally , suppose Harry did not care to spell so elegantly for Mrs. Mountain as for his lady-mother , what affair is that of the present biographer , century , reader ? 
And as for your objection that Mr. Warrington , in the above communication to his mother , showed some little hypocrisy and reticence in his dealings with that venerable person , I daresay , young folks , you in your time have written more than one prim letter to your papas and mammas in which not quite all the transactions of your lives were narrated , or if narrated , were exhibited in the most favourable light for yourselves -- I daresay , old folks ! 
Do not then , my dear young friends , be surprised at your mother and aunt when they cry out , `` O , it was highly immoral and improper of Mr. Warrington to be writing home humdrum demure letters to his dear mamma , when he was playing all sorts of merry pranks ! '' 
-- but drop a curtsey , and say , `` Yes , dear grandmamma -LRB- or aunt as may be -RRB- , it was very wrong of him : and I suppose you never had your fun when you were young . '' 
OUR candid readers know the real state of the case regarding Harry Warrington and that luckless Cattarina ; but a number of the old ladies at Tunbridge Wells supposed the Virginian to be as dissipated as any young English nobleman of the highest quality , and Madame de Bernstein was especially incredulous about her nephew 's innocence . 
It was the old lady 's firm belief that Harry was leading not only a merry life but a wicked one , and her wish was father to the thought that the lad might be no better than his neighbours . 
The Baroness had her trumps to think of , her dinners , her twinges of rheumatism : and her suspicions regarding Maria and Harry , lately so lively , now dosed , and kept a careless unobservant watch . 
If the good folks at Oakhurst could not resist the testimony which was brought to them regarding Harry 's ill-doings , why should Madam Bernstein , who in the course of her long days had had more experience of evil than all the Oakhurst family put together , be less credulous than they ? 
Of course every single old woman of her ladyship 's society believed every story that was told about Mr. Harry Warrington 's dissipated habits , and was ready to believe as much more ill of him as you please . 
When the little dancer went back to London , as she did , it was because that heartless Harry deserted her . 
He deserted her for somebody else , whose name was confidently given , -- whose name ? 
Harry 's bad reputation then comforted his old Aunt exceedingly , and eased her mind in respect to the boy 's passion for Lady Maria . 
She preferred rather to keep her under her eye , to talk to her about her wicked young cousin 's wild extravagances , to whisper to her that boys would be boys , to confide to Maria her intention of getting a proper wife for Harry , -- some one of a suitable age , -- some one with a suitable fortune , -- all which pleasantries poor Maria had to bear with as much fortitude as she could muster . 
We have said that Mr. Harry Warrington brought his colonial modesty along with him to the old country ; and though he could not help hearing the free talk of the persons amongst whom he lived , and who were men of pleasure and the world , he sat pretty silent himself in the midst of their rattle ; never indulged in double entendre in his conversation with women ; had no victories over the sex to boast of ; and was shy and awkward when he heard such narrated by others . 
This youthful modesty Mr. Sampson had remarked during his intercourse with the lad at Castlewood , where Mr. Warrington had more than once shown himself quite uneasy whilst cousin Will was telling some of his choice stories ; and my lord had curtly rebuked his brother , bidding him keep his jokes for the usher 's table at Kensington , and not give needless offence to their kinsman . 
Hence the exclamation of `` Reverentia pueris , '' which the Chaplain had addressed to his neighbour at the ordinary on Harry 's first appearance there . 
The Chaplain was touched by Harry 's gift of the horse ; and felt a genuine friendliness towards the lad . 
The Chaplain was loud in his praises of Harry to his aunt , the old Baroness . 
`` We must find a good wife for him , chaplain , '' she said to Mr. Sampson . 
`` I have one or two in my eye , who , I think , will suit him . 
We must set him up here ; he never will bear going back to his savages again , or to live with his little methodist of a mother . '' 
Now about this point Mr. Sampson , too , was personally anxious , and had also a wife in his eye for Harry . 
With Harry , Sampson was only a brisk , lively , jolly companion , ready for any drinking bout , or any sport , a cock-fight , a shooting match , a game at cards , or a gallop across the common ; but his conversation was decent , and he tried much more to amuse the young man , than to lead him astray . 
In those good old times , when Harry Warrington first came to Europe , a gentleman 's toad-eater pretended to no airs of equality at all ; openly paid court to his patron , called him by that name to other folks , went on his errands for him , -- any sort of errands which the patron might devise , -- called him Sir in speaking to him , stood up in his presence until bidden to sit down , and flattered him ex officio . 
Mr. Sampson did not take the least shame in speaking of Harry as his young patron , -- as a young Virginian nobleman recommended to him by his other noble patron , the Earl of Castlewood . 
He was proud of appearing at Harry 's side , and as his humble retainer , in public talked about him to the company , gave orders of Harry 's tradesmen , from whom , let us hope , he received a per centage in return for his recommendations , performed all the functions of aide-de-camp -- others , if our young gentleman demanded them from the obsequious divine , who had gaily discharged the duties of ami du prince to ever so many young men of fashion , since his own entrance into the world . 
It must be confessed that , since his arrival in Europe , Mr. Warrington had not been uniformly lucky in the friendships which he had made . 
-- Never was at Minorca in my life , '' says down-right Harry , who had not heard of those victories at home , which made the French duke famous . 
cries out Harry , indignantly . 
`` So I told them , '' says the Chaplain , wagging his head and looking very much moved and very grave , though , if the truth were known , it had never come into his mind at all to be angry at hearing charges of this nature against Harry . 
So Harry and his Chaplain drank their claret in peace and plenty , naming , as the simple custom was , some favourite lady with each glass . 
The chaplain had reasons of his own for desiring to know how far the affair between Harry and my Lady Maria had gone ; whether it was advancing , or whether it was ended ; and he and his young friend were just warm enough with the claret to be able to talk with that great eloquence , that candour , that admirable friendliness , which good wine taken in a rather injudicious quantity inspires . 
Well , then , as they sate over their generous cups , the company having departed , and the -- th bottle of claret being brought in by Monsieur Barbeau , the Chaplain found himself in an eloquent state , with a strong desire for inculcating sublime moral precepts , whilst Harry was moved by an extreme longing to explain his whole private history , and impart all his present feelings to his new friend . 
`` I give you ` Miss Fanny Mountain , of Virginia , ''' says Mr. Warrington , filling a bumper as his thoughts fly straightway , ever so many thousand miles , to home . 
`` Let us have another bottle of riches , '' says Harry , with a laugh . 
How beautifully you speak French , Mr. Harry . '' 
`` I do speak it well , '' says Harry . 
asked Harry , flushing very red . 
`` I do n't intend to let anybody meddle in my affairs , not Madam Esmond nor anybody else , '' cries Harry : `` but you see , Sampson , she is old -- and , O hang it ! 
shrieks out Harry . 
asks his friend . 
says Harry , beating a tattoo on his own white teeth . 
`` says Harry , rapping the table . 
The sentiment was noble , but delivered by Harry with rather a doubtful articulation . 
`` Mind you , I said a Virginia Esmond , '' continued poor Harry , lifting up his finger , `` I do n't mean the younger branch here . 
shrieks Harry , starting from his seat , and reeling towards his sword ; which he draws , and then stamps with his foot , and says `` Ha ! 
I know we could have had a much more exciting picture than either of those we present of Harry this month , and the lad with his hair dishevelled , raging about the room flamberge au vent , and pinking the affrighted innkeeper and chaplain would have afforded a good subject for the pencil . 
`` It 's Harry Warrington ! '' 
`` I heard him preach a most admirable sermon here last Sunday , '' says Mr. Wolfe ; `` a little theatrical , but most striking and eloquent . '' 
`` See , Harry has beautified himself already , hath his hair his in buckle , and I have no doubt is going to the drum too . '' 
`` No , let him have his sport . 
We shall see him to-morrow . 
He wo n't care to be disturbed amidst his fine folks by us country people , '' said meek Mrs. Lambert . 
`` I am glad he is with a clergyman who preaches so well , '' says Theo , softly ; and her eyes seemed to say , You see , good people , he is not so bad as you thought him , and as I , for my part , never believed him to be . 
The girls said how Harry Warrington was in the window , talking with his cousin Lady Maria Esmond . 
It was Hester who found out where Harry Warrington 's lodging must be , by remarking Mr. Gumbo in an undress , with his lovely hair in curlpapers , drawing a pair of red curtains aside , and opening a window sash , whence he thrust his head and inhaled the sweet morning breeze . 
No face of Harry Warrington appeared there . 
One of them is Miss Fielding , papa tells them after church , Harry Fielding 's sister . 
And what a famous sermon Harry 's parson gave , did n't he ? 
How he touched up some of the old harridans who were seated round ! 
It was a shame he was n't at church . '' 
`` I really did not remark whether he was there or not , '' says Miss Hetty , tossing her head up . 
But Theo , who was all truth , said , `` Yes , I thought of him , and was sorry he was not there ; and so did you think of him , Hetty . '' 
`` Then why did you whisper to me it was Harry 's clergyman who preached ? '' 
`` You would n't have Harry go to church in a dressing-gown and night-cap , Colonel Wolfe ? 
Harry ran up to greet his dear friends : he was radiant with pleasure at beholding them -- the elder ladies were most gracious to the colonel and his wife , who had so kindly welcomed their Harry . 
How noble and handsome he looked ! 
Theo thought -- she called him by his Christian name , as if he were really her brother . 
`` Why did we not see you sooner to-day , Harry ? '' 
asked Harry . 
cried the Colonel to his wife , `` I wish this one had broke his nose against any door-post but ours . '' 
`` Perhaps we are to cure him of being a scapegrace , my dear , '' says Mrs. Lambert , mildly interposing , `` and the fall at our door hath something providential in it . 
I dare say he likes French actresses and the commonest little milliner-girl in the toyshop better than me . 
And so he ought , and so they are better than me . 
Why , what a fool I am to burst out crying like a ninny about nothing , and because Mr. Wolfe said Harry played cards of a Sunday ! 
I know he is not clever , like papa . 
I believe he is stupid -- I am certain he is stupid ; but he is not so stupid as I am . 
Why , of course , I ca n't marry him . 
Of course , he likes somebody else , at America , or at Tunbridge , or at Jericho , or somewhere . 
He is a prince in his own country , and ca n't think of marrying a poor half-pay officer 's daughter , with twopence to her fortune . 
Only there is this to be said , he do n't know anything about it , and I would rather cut my tongue out than tell him . '' 
To do the child justice , she disguises her feelings entirely , and I defy Mr. Warrington to know from her behaviour how she is disposed towards him . '' 
He never comes to us , but she boxes his ears in one fashion or t ` other . 
I protest she is barely civil to him ; but , knowing what is going on in the young hypocrite 's mind , I am not going to be angry at her rudeness . '' 
Depend upon it , Martin , it was not for nothing that Harry Warrington was brought to our gate in that way ; and that he and our children are thus brought together again . 
`` He has promised to drink his tea here to-night . 
Harry not only came to take tea with his friends , but invited them for the next day to an entertainment at the Rooms , to be given in their special honour . 
`` O Harry , how delightful ; I wish we could begin this very minute ! '' 
`` Why , for a savage Virginian , I declare , Harry Warrington , thou art the most civilised young man possible ! '' 
She remembered she had said Harry was stupid , and Theo 's droll humorous glance was her only reminder . 
`` That was when she was a child : do n't you see she is grown up to be an old woman ? '' 
Darkness has come over Harry Warrington 's face . 
`` I come to try my best , and give them pleasure and a dance , '' he thinks , `` and the little thing tells me she hates dancing . 
Not content with this , Miss Hester must proceed to make such fun of all the company at the Wells , and especially of Harry 's own immediate pursuits and companions , that the honest lad was still farther pained at her behaviour ; and , when he saw Mrs. Lambert alone , asked how or in what he had again offended , that Hester was so angry with him ? 
When he proposed to us his party at the Assembly Rooms , and nothing could be more gallant of him , why did you say you did n't care for music , or dancing , or tea ? 
And that will teach him , and you , and mamma , and papa , at any rate , that I am not going to set my cap at Mr. Harry . 
If she had , no tortures should ever have drawn a word from me -- I would have got a rope ladder to help her to run away with Harry , that I would , or fetched the clergyman to marry them . 
Card-tables were set in one apartment , for all those who could not spend an evening without the pastime then common to all European society : a supper with champagne in some profusion and bowls of negus was prepared in another chamber : the large assembly room was set apart for the dance , of which enjoyment Harry Warrington 's guests partook in our ancestors ' homely fashion . 
The spinsters of the highest rank in the assembly went out for the minuet , and my Lady Maria Esmond being an earl 's daughter , and the person of the highest rank present -LRB- with the exception of Lady Augusta Crutchley , who was lame -RRB- , Mr. Warrington danced the first minuet with his cousin , acquitting himself to the satisfaction of the whole room , and performing much more elegantly than Mr. Wolfe , who stood up with Miss Lowther . 
Having completed the dance with Lady Maria , Mr. Warrington begged Miss Theo to do him the honour of walking the next minuet , and accordingly Miss Theo , blushing and looking very happy , went through her exercise to the great delight of her parents and the rage of Miss Humpleby , Sir John Humpleby 's daughter , of Liphook , who expected , at least , to have stood up next after my Lady Maria . 
Mr. Warrington had the honour of a duchess 's company at his tea-drinking -- Colonel Lambert 's and Mr. Prior 's heroine , the Duchess of Queensberry . 
She had met Harry Warrington in the walks that morning , and had been mighty gracious to the young Virginian . 
Harry 's bow had been no lower than hospitality required ; but , such as it was , Miss Hester chose to be indignant with it . 
She scarce spoke a word to her partner during their dance together ; and when he took her to the supper-room for refreshment she was little more communicative . 
To enter that room they had to pass by Madame Walmoden 's card-table , who goodnaturedly called out to her host as he was passing , and asked him if his `` breddy liddle bardner liked tanzing ? '' 
Sarcasm from the young to the old pained him : flippant behaviour towards himself hurt him . 
Courteous in his simple way to all persons whom he met , he expected a like politeness from them . 
`` Her ladyship has been very kind to me , '' says Harry , grimly . 
`` It is not very good negus , '' says Harry , with a gulp . 
`` I wish Hester , that the entertainment and the company had been better to your liking , '' says poor Harry . 
Mr. Warrington groaned in spirit , perhaps in body , and clenched his fists and his teeth . 
`` We are rough there sometimes , madam , and ca n't help being disturbed , '' he says slowly , and with a quiver in his whole frame , looking down upon her with fire flashing out of his eyes . 
Never had she seen Harry look so handsome or so noble . 
And she makes him a faint curtsey , as Harry bows a tremendous bow , and walks elsewhere amongst his guests . 
He hardly knows what is happening at first , so angry is he . 
He is aroused by another altercation between his aunt and the Duchess of Queensberry . 
You look astonished , Harry , my dear -- and well you may . 
He is not used to our ways , madam . '' 
`` Madam , he has found an aunt who can teach him our ways , and a great deal more ! '' 
`` She will teach him to try and make all his guests welcome , old or young , rich or poor . 
That is the Virginian way , is n't it , Harry ? 
She will tell him , when Catherine Hyde is angry with his old aunt , that they were friends as girls , and ought not to quarrel now they are old women . 
cried Chaplain Sampson , as Harry talked over the night 's transactions with his pupil next morning . 
laughs Harry . 
`` Sir , '' cried Harry , in great amazement , `` you do n't mean to say there is anything against the character of my aunt , the Baroness de Bernstein ! '' 
Harry groaned out , `` are there two then in the family , who are -- '' `` Which two ? '' 
But here Harry stopped , blushing very red . 
He remembered , and we shall presently have to state , whence he had got his information regarding the other family culprit , and bit his lip , and was silent . 
continued Harry , remembering how at home his mother had never spoken of the Baroness . 
and here Harry rose , greeting his friend the Colonel very kindly , who had come to pay him a morning-visit , and had entered the room followed by Mr. Gumbo -LRB- the latter preferred walking very leisurely about all the affairs of life -RRB- just as Harry -- suiting the action to the word -- was tweaking the nose of Calumny . 
`` I tell Mr. Harry that everybody is calumniated ! '' 
says the Chaplain , with a clerical intonation ; but , at the same time , he looks at Colonel Lambert and winks , as much as to say , `` He knows nothing -- keep him in the dark . '' 
Witness that story about the dancing-girl , that we all believed against you , Harry Warrington . '' 
You should have heard her standing up for you , Harry , t ` other day , when somebody -- a little bird -- brought us another story about a game at cards on Sunday morning , when you and a friend of yours might have been better employed . '' 
says Harry . 
`` She scolded me last night like -- like anything , '' says downright Harry . 
And , do you know , sir , we had a sort of a quarrel , and I 'm very glad you 've told me she spoke kindly of me , '' says Harry , shaking his friend 's hand , a ready boyish emotion glowing in his cheeks and in his eyes . 
`` You wo n't come to much hurt if you find no worse enemy than Hester , Mr. Warrington , '' said the girl 's father , gravely , looking not without a deep thrill of interest at the flushed face and moist eyes of his young friend . 
`` Is he fond of her ? '' 
'T is evident he knows nothing , and Miss Het has been performing some of her tricks . 
He is a fine , honest lad , and God bless him . '' 
And Colonel Lambert looked towards Harry with that manly , friendly kindness which our lucky young Virginian was not unaccustomed to inspire , for he was comely to look at , prone to blush , to kindle , nay , to melt , at a kind story . 
The Colonel then turned to Harry again . 
And I do n't mean Harry Warrington , who was quite right to be civil to her , and to lose his money with good humour . 
Harry , I am come to bid thee farewell , my boy . 
cries Harry , eagerly . 
And the Colonel was for taking leave of Harry then and there , on the spot , but the young man followed him down the stairs , and insisted upon saying good-bye to his dear ladies . 
Instead , however , of proceeding immediately to Mr. Lambert 's lodging , the two gentlemen took the direction of the common , where , looking from Harry 's windows , Mr. Sampson saw the pair in earnest conversation . 
When Mr. Warrington came back in an hour , he found his Reverence deep in the composition of a sermon . 
Harry 's face was grave and melancholy ; he flung down his hat , buried himself in a great chair , and then came from his lips something like an execration . 
sneered Harry . 
broke out Harry , `` what does she mean by being so pert to me . 
And Harry growled out more naughty words expressive of inward disquiet . 
Harry said , `` No ! '' 
`` There were notes in it , '' said Harry , very gloomily , `` and -- and papers that I am very sorry to lose . 
For which sentiment every well-conditioned person will surely rebuke him . 
So , what is the use of Hetty 's parents taking her home , if the little maid intends to be just as fond of Harry absent as of Harry present ? 
Why not let her see him before Ball and Dobbin are put to , and say `` Good-bye , Harry ! 
I was very wilful and fractious last night , and you were very kind : but good-bye , Harry ! '' 
Harry is too much preoccupied to discover it for himself . 
He does not know what grief is lying behind Hetty 's glances , or hidden under the artifice of her innocent young smiles . 
He has , perhaps , a care of his own . 
He will part from her calmly , and fancy she is happy to get back to her music and her poultry and her flower-garden . 
He did not even ride part of the way homewards by the side of his friend 's carriage . 
He had some other party arranged for that afternoon , and when he returned thence , the good Lamberts were gone from Tunbridge Wells . 
She looks with hot eyes at Harry when he comes in to his aunt 's card-tables , flushed with Barbeau 's good wine . 
He laughs , rattles , in reply to his aunt , who asks him which of the girls is his sweetheart ? 
He gaily says , he loves them both like sisters . 
He has never seen a better gentleman , nor better people , than the Lamberts . 
He has been a most distinguished officer : his Royal Highness the Duke is very fond of him . 
Madame Bernstein says , that Harry must make interest with Lady Yarmouth for his protégé . 
`` You carry off the hearts of all the old women , does n't he , Maria ? '' 
cries Harry astonished . 
asked Harry . 
Wouldst thou not , Harry ? '' 
Harry turned red , too , and so did Maria , and his aunt laughed one of those wicked laughs which are not altogether pleasant to hear . 
Had Maria known one of the causes of Harry 's disquiet , that middle-aged spinster would have been more unquiet still . 
For some days he had missed a pocket-book . 
He had remembered it in his possession on that day , when he drank so much claret at the White Horse , and Gumbo carried him to bed . 
There were expostulations about his attentions to other ladies . 
Mr. Harry Warrington has gone to play a match at billiards with Count Caramboli : I suspect idleness is his failing . 
`` Mr. Warrington might see his relatives of his father 's family , '' suggests Mr. Chaplain . 
I do n't see anything to be gained by his frequenting them , Mr. Sampson ! '' 
`` I have heard Sir Miles hath a daughter of Mr. Harry 's age -- and a beauty , too . '' 
I fear for his youth ; for designing persons who may get about him ; for extravagances , follies , intrigues even into which he will be led , and into which everybody will try to tempt him . 
His lordship , my kind patron , bade me to come and watch over him , and I am here accordingly , as your ladyship knoweth . 
`` Has he confided nothing to your ladyship ? '' 
`` And probably more money than he likes to own , '' continues Mr. Sampson , with a grave nod of the head . 
`` He is very much disturbed about the book . 
I have Mr. Harry Warrington 's word -- yes , and his letters -- and I know he will die rather than break it . '' 
`` He will die if he keeps it ! '' 
I have Mr. Warrington 's word , and I know , madam , he will keep it . 
It is not my letters that I am afraid of , so long as I have his , madam . 
Yes , his and his word , and I trust them both . '' 
`` No , I shall have my pretty Harry , and ten times five thousand pounds ! '' 
`` Not till his mother 's death , madam , who is just your age ! '' 
`` Of course , my Lady Maria , '' she said , `` you ca n't suppose that I , as Harry Warrington 's near relative , can be pleased at the idea of his marrying a woman who is as old as his mother , and has not a penny to her fortune ; but if he chooses to do so silly a thing , the affair is none of mine ; and I doubt whether I should have been much inclined to be taken au sérieux with regard to that offer of five thousand pounds which I made in the heat of our talk . 
Harry says so , and you say so -- what more can one ask ? '' 
`` And he has owned that he made you a promise at Castlewood : that you have it in his writing . '' 
`` From Mr. Warrington I could have nothing concealed henceforth , and spoke freely to him . 
`` So Harry said , and did your ladyship justice . 
`` Why , Case , I could have made oath it was you I saw on horse-back this morning galloping on the London road , '' said Mr. Warrington , who was supping with his relatives . 
And the honest major domo went on with his duties among the bottles and glasses . 
She urged her to consult her London physician , and to send up an account of her case by Harry . 
By Harry ? 
Harry was going for two days on an errand for his aunt to London . 
I wish Mr. Draper to put him into my will , and as I am going travelling upon a round of visits when you and I part , I think , for security , I shall ask Mr. Warrington to take my trinket-box in his post-chaise to London with him , for there have been robberies of late , and I have no fancy for being stopped by highwaymen . '' 
Maria looked blank at the notion of the young gentleman 's departure , but hoped that she might have his escort back to Castlewood , whither her elder brother had now returned . 
Harry relished the notion of a rattling journey to London and a day or two of sport there . 
He promised that his pistols were good , and that he would hand the diamonds over in safety to the banker 's strong-room . 
Would he occupy his aunt 's London house ? 
I have often talked over that journey , '' said Harry , his countenance saddening . 
`` He has more heart , my good Maria , than some of us ! '' 
says Harry 's aunt , witnessing his emotion . 
But , of course , this sorrow was not to be perpetual ; and we can fancy Mr. Warrington setting out on his London journey eagerly enough , and very gay and happy , if it must be owned , to be rid of his elderly attachment . 
At Castlewood , on one unlucky evening , he had made an offer of his heart and himself to his mature cousin , and she had accepted the foolish lad 's offer . 
He must consult his mother . 
`` Yes , master , '' says Gumbo , who has never heard of the Tower ; but Harry has , and remembers how he has read about it in Howell 's Medulla , and how he and his brother used to play at the Tower , and he thinks with delight now , how he is actually going to see the armour and the jewels and the lions . 
`` Yes , master ; Saint Paul 's , '' says Gumbo , obsequiously , but little struck by the beauties of the architecture , and so by the well-known course we reach the Temple , and Gumbo and his master look up with awe at the rebel heads on Temple Bar . 
The chaise drives to Mr. Draper 's chambers in Middle Temple Lane , where Harry handed the precious box over to Mr. Draper , and a letter from his aunt , which the gentleman read with some interest seemingly , and carefully put away . 
He then consigned the trinket-box to his strong-closet , went into the adjoining room , taking his clerk with him , and then was at Mr. Warrington 's service to take him to an hotel . 
A hotel in Covent Garden was fixed upon as the best place for his residence . 
Harry said yes , he thought the inn would be best , and the post-chaise and a clerk of Mr. Draper 's inside was despatched to the Bedford , whither the two gentlemen agreed to walk on foot . 
Harry saw Mr. Draper darting a Parthian look of anger at Mr. Brown . 
First , Harry was for going to see the place where his grandfather and Lord Castlewood had fought a duel fifty-six years ago , in Leicester Field . 
Mr. Warrington must be so obliging as to honour him on that day . 
In fact , he had made so bold as to order a collation from the Cock . 
Mr. Warrington could not decline an invitation so pressing , and walked away gaily with his friend , passing under that arch where the heads were , and taking off his hat to them , much to the lawyer 's astonishment . 
`` Confound the mob , sir , '' said Mr. Harry , loftily , but the passers-by thinking about their own affairs , did not take any notice of Mr. Warrington 's conduct ; and he walked up the thronging Strand , gazing with delight upon all he saw , remembering , I daresay , for all his life after , the sights and impressions there presented to him , but , maintaining a discreet reserve ; for he did not care to let the lawyer know how much he was moved , or the public perceive that he was a stranger . 
The chamberlain at the Bedford showed Mr. Warrington to his rooms , bowing before him with delightful obsequiousness , for Gumbo had already trumpeted his master 's greatness , and Mr. Draper 's clerk announced that the new-comer was a `` high fellar . '' 
He did not like his new friend the more as the latter grew more familiar . 
`` Not Ranelagh , '' says Mr. Draper ; `` because there 's none of the nobility in town ; '' but , seeing in the newspaper that at the entertainment at Sadler 's Wells , Islington , there would be the most singular kind of diversion on eight hand-bells by Mr. Franklyn , as well as the surprising performances of Signora Catherina , Harry wisely determined that he would go to Marybone Gardens , where they had a concert of music , a choice of tea , coffee , and all sorts of wines , and the benefit of Mr. Draper 's ceaseless conversation . 
The lawyer 's obsequiousness only ended at Harry 's bedroom door . 
The next morning , Mr. Warrington , arrayed in his brocade bed-gown , took his breakfast , read the newspaper , and enjoyed his ease in his inn . 
He read in the paper news from his own country . 
And when he saw the words , Williamsburg , Virginia , June 7th . 
His eyes grew dim somehow . 
He had just had letters by that packet of June 7th , but his mother did not tell how , `` A great number of the principal gentry of the colony have associated themselves under the command of the Honourable Peyton Randolph , Esquire , to march to the relief of their distressed fellow subjects , and revenge the cruelties of the French and their barbarous allies . 
cried out Harry . 
And now reading that the finest mare in England , and a pair of very genteel bay geldings , were to be sold at the Bull Inn , the lower end of Hatton Garden , Harry determined to go and look at the animals , and inquired his way to the place . 
He then and there bought the genteel bay geldings , and paid for them with easy generosity . 
He never said what he did on that day , being shy of appearing like a stranger ; but it is believed that he took a coach and went to Westminster Abbey , from which he bade the coachman drive him to the Tower , then to Mrs. Salmon 's Waxwork , then to Hyde Park and Kensington Palace ; then he had given orders to go to the Royal Exchange , but catching a glimpse of Covent Garden , on his way to the Exchange , he bade Jehu take him to his inn , and cut short his enumeration of places to which he had been , by flinging the fellow a guinea . 
As he issued forth the next day , the bells of St. Paul 's , Covent Garden , were ringing for morning prayers , and reminded him that friend Sampson was going to preach his sermon . 
Harry smiled . 
He had begun to have a shrewd and just opinion of the value of Mr. Sampson 's sermons . 
Mr. Warrington paid his money , and was accommodated with a seat in a gallery commanding a perfect view of the platform whereon the sports were performed ; Mr. Gumbo took his seat in the amphitheatre below ; or , when tired , issued forth into the outer world to drink a pot of beer , or play a game at cards with his brother lacqueys , and the gentlemen 's coachmen on the boxes of the carriages waiting without . 
Whilst the parley occasioned by this incident was going on , Mr. Warrington saw a gentleman in a riding-frock and plain scratch wig enter the box devoted to the stout personage , and recognised with pleasure his Tunbridge Wells friend , my Lord of March and Ruglan . 
Lord March , who was by no means prodigal of politeness , seemed to show singular deference to the stout gentleman , and Harry remarked how his lordship received , with a profound bow , some bank bills which the other took out from a pocket-book and handed to him . 
Whilst thus engaged , Lord March spied out our Virginian , and , his interview with the stout personage finished , my lord came over to Harry 's gallery and warmly greeted his young friend . 
After the warriors had sufficiently fought with swords , they fell to with the quarter-staff , and the result of this long and delightful battle was , that victory remained with her ancient champion Figg . 
Harry was in great delectation with the noble sight he had witnessed : he pronounced this indeed to be something like sport , and of the best he had seen since his arrival in England : and , as usual , associating any pleasure which he enjoyed with the desire that the dear companion of his boyhood should share the amusement in common with him , he began by sighing out , `` I wish '' ... then he stopped . 
says Harry , tapping his own honest skull . 
And the penitent hung down his head . 
In fact , my lord , I 'll back myself , '' he resumed , to the other 's great amusement . 
So the equipage drove to his hotel in Covent Garden , where the landlord came forward with his usual obsequiousness , and recognising my Lord of March and Ruglan , bowed his wig on to my lord 's shoes in his humble welcomes to his lordship . 
Harry , who had never seen a firework beyond an exhibition of a dozen squibs at Williamsburgh on the Fifth of November -LRB- which he thought a sublime display -RRB- , would have liked the Vauxhall , but yielded to his guest 's preference for picquet ; and they were very soon absorbed in that game . 
Harry began by winning as usual ; but , in the course of a half-hour , the luck turned and favoured my Lord March , who was at first very surly , when Mr. Draper , Mr. Warrington 's man of business , came bowing into the room , where he accepted Harry 's invitation to sit and drink . 
Mr. Warrington always asked everybody to sit and drink , and partake of his best . 
Had he a crust , he would divide it ; had he a haunch , he would share it ; had he a jug of water , he would drink about with a kindly spirit ; had he a bottle of Burgundy , it was gaily drunk with a thirsty friend . 
Harry was not near a match for the experienced player of the London clubs . 
cried Harry . 
Indeed it was no other than Mrs. Betty , Lady Maria 's maid ; and Gumbo stood behind her , his fine countenance beslobbered with tears . 
`` O , Mr. Harry ! 
Mr. Warrington rose from his seat , and made for the bell , saying : `` My dear lord , the game must be over for to-night . 
His own horses would take him to Bromley . 
In half-an-hour after the receipt of this missive , Mr. Warrington was in his postchaise and galloping over Westminster Bridge on the road to succour his kinswoman . 
The stories which that person imparted to me regarding his relatives who inhabited the gem abovementioned , were such as used to make my young blood curdle with horror , to think there should be so much wickedness in the world . 
Having Harry 's bond in her pocket , the veteran Maria did not choose to press for payment . 
She knew the difference of ages , and that Harry must have his pleasures and diversions . 
About all that Harry was to see and do on his first visit to London , his female relatives had of course talked and joked . 
Now Betty took the chain to the very toyshop man who had sold it to Mr. Warrington , who had given it to his cousin ; and the toy-shop man , supposing that she had stolen the chain , was for bringing in a constable to Betty . 
Mr. Sampson read a sermon to her ladyship , and they passed the evening over revenge and backgammon ; with well-grounded hopes that Harry Warrington would rush to their rescue as soon as ever he heard of their mishap . 
Mrs. Brett names Harry , and says Mr. Warrington arrived about midnight yesterday -- and Betty , my Lady Maria 's maid , was with him . 
`` You are both free to go home , '' were the first words Harry said . 
The Chaplain , who , too , had a great deal of available sensibility , was very much overcome ; he burst into tears as he seized Harry 's hand , and kissed it , and prayed God to bless his dear generous young patron . 
Mr. Warrington felt a glow of pleasure thrill through his frame . 
He was on this night in a rapture of gratitude and flattery towards Harry Warrington . 
He exalted Harry as the best and noblest of men , and the complacent young simpleton , as we have said , was disposed to take these praises as very well deserved . 
`` The younger branch of our family , '' said Mr. Harry with a superb air , `` have treated you scurvily ; but by Jove , Sampson , my boy , I 'll stand by you ! '' 
At a certain period of Burgundian excitement Mr. Warrington was always very eloquent respecting the splendour of his family . 
Harry 's generosity smote him . 
`` Mr. Warrington , '' he said , putting the bank-note a short distance from him , `` I -- I do n't deserve your kindness , -- by George , I do n't ! '' 
and he swore an oath to corroborate his passionate assertion . 
says Harry , `` I have plenty more of 'em . 
enquired Harry . 
Harry cried out . 
say Harry , with an imperious air . 
`` My brother 's name in it , '' says Harry ; `` it was George who gave it to me . '' 
He clasped his hands together , and almost knelt before Harry in an attitude the most pathetic . 
As for the pocket-book and its contents , Mr. Harry was so swollen up with self-satisfaction that evening , at winning his three bets , at rescuing his two friends , at the capital premature cold supper of partridges and ancient Burgundy which obsequious Monsieur Barbeau had sent over to the young gentleman 's lodgings , that he accepted Sampson 's vows of contrition , and solemn promises of future fidelity , and reached his gracious hand to the Chaplain , and condoned his offence . 
When the latter swore his great Gods , that henceforth he would be Harry 's truest , humblest friend and follower , and at any moment would be ready to die for Mr. Warrington , Harry said , majestically , `` I think , Sampson , you would ; I hope you would . 
My grandfather was the Marquis of Esmond , '' says Mr. Harry , in a voice noble but somewhat indistinct . 
And once more extending his blessing to his chaplain , the young fellow went off to sleep . 
says Mr. Harry . 
`` I can give your ladyship twenty-two pounds , '' said Harry , blushing very red : `` I have but forty-four left till I get my Virginian remittances . 
`` I have ten thousand pounds from my father , of my own , now my poor brother is gone , '' said Harry , `` that will go some way . '' 
`` We must give up cards , '' says Harry . 
asked Harry , burning with a blush again . 
And in it was Mr. Harry Warrington 's precious letter . 
A pang shot through Harry 's heart . 
he thought . 
`` I -- I will give it back to Maria , '' he said , stretching out his hand for the little locket . 
Betray me if you will , Harry . '' 
`` But I am sure she -- she is very fond of me ; you should have seen her last night , '' faltered Harry . 
cries Harry , starting up . 
Harry was greatly moved , too . 
He knelt down by her . 
He seized her cold hand , and kissed it . 
He told her , in his artless way , how very keenly he had felt her love for him , and how , with all his heart , he returned it . 
said he , `` you do n't know what a villain I feel myself . 
He bowed his comely head over her hand . 
She felt hot drops from his eyes raining on it . 
She put her two hands on his shoulders , and lightly kissed his forehead . 
He declared never ! 
Harry promised , with rather a bad grace , to ride with Lady Maria and the Chaplain to Castlewood . 
Again they passed by Oakhurst village , and the hospitable house where Harry had been so kindly entertained . 
Maria made so many keen remarks about the young ladies of Oakhurst , and their setting their caps at Harry , and the mother 's evident desire to catch him for one of them , that , somewhat in a pet , Mr. Warrington side he would pass his friends ' door , as her ladyship disliked and abused them ; and was very haughty and sulky that evening at the inn where they stopped , some few miles further on the road . 
At supper , my Lady Maria 's smiles brought no corresponding good humour to Harry 's face ; her tears -LRB- which her ladyship had at command -RRB- did not seem to create the least sympathy from Mr. Warrington ; to her querulous remarks he growled a surly reply ; and my lady was obliged to go to bed at length without getting a single tête-à ; - tête with her cousin , -- that obstinate Chaplain , as if by order , persisting in staying in the room . 
Had Harry given Sampson orders to remain ? 
Mr. Warrington was gone to bed -- was gone to fetch a walk in the moonlight -- how should he know where Mr. Harry was , Sampson answered , in reply to the maid 's interrogatories . 
Mr. Warrington was ready to set forward the next morning , and took his place by the side of Lady Maria 's carriage . 
But his brow was black -- the dark spirit was still on him . 
He hardly spoke to her during the journey . 
The fact is , that , as they were walking up that steep hill which lies about three miles from Oakhurst , on the Westerham road , Lady Maria Esmond , leaning on her fond youth 's arm , and indeed very much in love with him , had warbled into his ear the most sentimental vows , protests , and expressions of affection . 
As she grew fonder , he grew colder . 
As she looked up in his face , the sun shone down upon hers , which , fresh and well-preserved as it was , yet showed some of the lines and wrinkles of twoscore years ; and poor Harry , with that arm leaning on his , felt it intolerably weighty , and by no means relished his walk up the hill . 
To think that all his life that drag was to be upon him ! 
It was a dreary look forward ; and he cursed the moonlight walk , and the hot evening , and the hot wine which had made him give that silly pledge by which he was fatally bound . 
Maria 's praises and raptures annoyed Harry beyond measure . 
It was then , at the start which Harry gave , as she was leaning on his arm , -- at the sudden movement as if he would drop hers -- that Lady Maria felt her first pang of remorse that she had told a fib , or rather , that she was found out in telling a fib , which is a far more cogent reason for repentance . 
Arrived at Castlewood , Mr. Harry 's good humour was not increased . 
My lord was from home ; the ladies also were away ; the only member of the family whom Harry found , was Mr. Will , who returned from partridge-shooting just as the chaise and cavalcade reached the gate , and who turned very pale when he saw his cousin , and received a sulky scowl of recognition from the young Virginian . 
says Mr. Harry , curtly . 
`` Well , he got the other one , '' said sulky Mr. Will , with a grin . 
said Mr. Warrington , always preserving his calm tone . 
When she rose to go , Harry followed her to the door , and closed it upon her with the most courtly bow of farewell . 
He stood at the closed door for a moment , and then he bade the servants retire . 
and he repeated his question : `` Mr. Sampson , you were here when I played the Honourable William Esmond , Esquire , fifty guineas against his brown horse ? '' 
`` I must own it , sir , '' says the Chaplain , with a deprecatory look towards his lord 's brother . 
`` No , sir : because it costs you no more pains to lie than to cheat , '' said Mr. Warrington , walking up to his cousin . 
-- No better than a what we ca n't say , and shall never know , for as Harry uttered the exclamation , his dear cousin flung a wine bottle at Mr. Warrington 's head , who bobbed just in time , so that the missile flew across the room , and broke against the wainscot opposite , breaking the face of a pictured ancestor of the Esmond family , and then itself against the wall , whence it spirted a pint of good port wine over the Chaplain 's face and flowered wig . 
But Harry caught up the other 's right hand with his left as he had seen the boxers do at Marybone ; and delivered a rapid blow upon Mr. Esmond 's nose , which sent him reeling up against the oak panels , and I daresay caused him to see ten thousand illuminations . 
This manoeuvre Harry had seen , too , on his visit to Marybone , and amongst the negroes upon the maternal estate , who would meet in combat like two concutient cannon-balls , each harder than the other . 
But Harry had seen and marked the civilised practice of the white man . 
He skipped aside , and , saluting his advancing enemy with a tremendous blow on the right ear , felled him , so that he struck his head against the heavy oak table and sank lifeless to the ground . 
said Mr. Warrington , still quivering with the excitement of the combat , but striving with all his might to restrain himself and look cool . 
And he drew the key from his pocket and opened the door in the lobby , behind which three or four servants were gathered . 
First , then , his eye rolled about ; then he gasped and uttered an inarticulate moan or two , then he began to swear and curse very freely and articulately . 
`` Massa Harry say , wool you like any maw ? '' 
`` Because nobody dares , Mr. Esmond , '' says Mr. Warrington , with great state , arranging his ruffles -- his ruffled ruffles . 
They had all grown to love Harry , whereas Mr. Will had nobody 's good word . 
He sent a note to Mr. Will begging to know whether he was for a ride to town or anywheres else . 
And , besides the parley between Will and Harry , there comes a maiden simpering to Mr. Warrington 's door , and Gumbo advances , holding something white and triangular in his ebon fingers . 
`` Of course it 's a letter , '' groans he . 
Molinda greets her Enrico , & c. & c. & c. No sleep has she known that night , and so forth , and so forth , and so forth . 
After the little scandal with Cousin Will , Harry 's dignity would not allow him to stay longer at Castlewood : he wrote a majestic letter to the lord of the mansion , explaining the circumstances which had occured , and , as he called in Parson Sampson to supervise the document , no doubt it contained none of those eccentricities in spelling which figured in his ordinary correspondence at this period . 
I fear Mr. Warrington did not exhibit any profound emotion on leaving her : nay , he cheered up immediately after he crossed Castlewood Bridge , and made his horses whisk over the road at ten miles an hour : he sang to them to go along : he nodded to the pretty girls by the roadside : he chucked my landlady under the chin : he certainly was not inconsolable . 
Truth is , he longed to be back in London again , to make a figure at St. James 's , at Newmarket , wherever the men of fashion congregated . 
He sought out proper lodgings at the court end of the town , and fixed on some apartments in Bond Street , where he and Gumbo installed themselves , his horses standing at a neighbouring livery stable . 
There were as yet but few persons of fashion in London , but with a pocket full of money at one and twenty , a young fellow can make himself happy even out of the season ; and Mr. Harry was determined to enjoy . 
He ordered Mr. Draper , then , to sell five hundred pounds of his stock . 
What would his poor mother have said had she known that the young spendthrift was already beginning to dissipate his patrimony ? 
He dined at the tavern , he supped at the Club , where Jack Morris introduced him , with immense eulogiums , to such gentlemen as were in town . 
PEOPLE were still very busy in Harry Warrington 's time -LRB- not that our young gentleman took much heed of the controversy -RRB- in determining the relative literary merits of the ancients and the moderns ; and the learned , and the world with them , indeed , pretty generally pronounced in favour of the former . 
I am thinking of Harry Warrington , Esquire , in his lodgings in Bond Street , London , and of the life which he and many of the young bucks of fashion led in those times , and how I can no more take my fair young reader into them , than Lady Squeams can take her daughter to Cremorne Gardens on an ordinary evening . 
So , if Harry Warrington rides down to Newmarket to the October meeting , and loses or wins his money there ; if he makes one of a party at the Shakespeare or the Bedford Head ; if he dines at White 's ordinary , and sits down to Macco and lansquenet afterwards ; if he boxes the watch , and makes his appearance at the Roundhouse ; if he turns out for a short space a wild , dissipated , harum-scarum young Harry Warrington ; I , knowing the weakness of human nature , am not going to be surprised ; and , quite aware of my own short-comings , do n't intend to be very savage at my neighbour 's . 
Mr. Sampson was : in his chapel in Long Acre he whipped Vice tremendously ; gave Sin no quarter ; out-cursed Balsphemy with superior anathemas ; knocked Drunkenness down , and trampled on the prostrate brute wallowing in the gutter ; dragged out conjugal Infidelity , and pounded her with endless stones of rhetoric -- and , after service , came to dinner at the Star and Garter , made a bowl of punch for Harry and his friends at the Bedford Head , or took a hand at whist at Mr. Warrington 's lodgings , or my Lord March 's , or wherever there was a supper and good company for him . 
I often think , however , in respect of Mr. Warrington 's doings at this period of his coming to London , that I may have taken my usual degrading and uncharitable views of him -- for , you see , I have not uttered a single word of virtuous indignation against his conduct , and , if it was not reprehensible , have certainly judged him most cruelly . 
As a proof , here is a letter out of the Warrington collection , from Harry to his mother , in which there is not a single word that would lead you to suppose he was leading a wild life . 
At least you would have sed afterwards , `` What she counselled me was right , and had Harry done as Madam Beatrix wisht , it had been better for him . '' 
Now , I must tell Harry 's mother what will doubtless scarce astonish her , that almost everybody who knows him loves him . 
He is prudent of his tongue , generous of his money , as bold as a lyon , with an imperious domineering way that sets well upon him ; you know whether he is handsome or not : my dear , I like him none the less for not being over witty or wise , and never cared for your sett-the-Thames-afire gentlemen , who are so much more clever than their neighbours . 
And -LRB- revenons à luy -RRB- your Master Harry will certainly not burn the river up with his wits . 
Of book learning he is as ignorant as any lord in England , and for this I hold him none the worse . 
If Heaven have not given him a turn that way , 't is of no use trying to bend him . 
Considering the place he is to hold in his own colony when he returns , and the stock he comes from , let me tell you , that he hath not means enough allowed him to support his station , and is likely to make the more dépence from the narrowness of his income -- from sheer despair breaking out of all bounds , and becoming extravagant , which is not his turn . 
But he likes to live as well as the rest of his company , and , between ourselves , has fell into some of the finist and most rakish in England . 
He thinks 't is for the honour of the family not to go back , and many a time calls for ortolans and champaign when he would as leaf dine with a stake and a mugg of beer . 
And in this kind of spirit I have no doubt from what he hath told me in his talk -LRB- which is very naïf , as the French say -RRB- , that his mamma hath encouraged him in his high opinion of himself . 
Trebble his allowance at the very least , and his Aunt Bernstein -LRB- with his honored mamma 's permission -RRB- will add a little more on to whatever summ you give him . 
Otherwise he will be spending the little capital I learn he has in this country , which , when a ladd once begins to manger , there is very soon an end to the loaf . 
How , or for what consideration , I know not , but my niece Maria Esmond hath escamoté a promise from Harry . 
He knows nothing of her antécédens , which I do . 
I care not how she hath got the promise from him . 
'T is a sinn and a shame that a woman more than forty years old should surprize the honour of a child like that , and hold him to his word . 
A horse-jockey -LRB- he saith -RRB- can not take him in -- but a woman ! 
Perhaps ` twill bring you to England : but I would be very cautious , above all , very gentle , for the bitt will instantly make his high spirit restive . 
I fear the property is entailed , so that threats of cutting him off from it will not move Maria . 
Otherwise I know her to be so mercenary that -LRB- though she really hath a great phancy for this handsome ladd -RRB- without money she would not hear of him . 
THOUGH Harry Warrington persisted in his determination to keep that dismal promise which his cousin had extracted from him , we trust no benevolent reader will think so ill of him as to suppose that the engagement was to the young fellow 's taste , and that he would not be heartily glad to be rid of it . 
Very likely the beating administered to poor Will was to this end ; and Harry may have thought , `` A boxing match between us is sure to bring on a quarrel with the family ; in the quarrel with the family , Maria may take her brother 's side . 
So honest Harry laid his train , and fired it : but , the explosion over , no harm was found to be done , except that William Esmond 's nose was swollen , and his eye black for a week . 
He did not send a challenge to his cousin , Harry Warrington ; and , in consequence , neither killed Harry nor was killed by him . 
Mr. Warrington only showed a proper spirit in resenting the injury , and it was for Will , not for Harry , to ask pardon . 
Harry said , he would accept no apology as long as his horse was not returned or his bet paid . 
This chronicler has not been able to find out , from any of the papers which have come under his view , how that affair of the bet was finally arranged : but 't is certain the cousins presently met in the houses of various friends , and without mauling each other . 
In the natural course of things , Harry would survive his elderly bride , and might console himself or not , as he preferred , after her departure . 
But , after an interview with Aunt Bernstein , which his lordship had on his coming to London , he changed his opinion : and even went so far as to try and dissuade Maria from the match ; and to profess a pity for the young fellow who was to be made to undergo a life of misery on account of a silly promise given at one-and-twenty ! 
It is true that my Lord March , and other gentlemen of whom he complained , would have thought no more of betting with Mr. Warrington for his last shilling , and taking their winnings , than they would scruple to pick the bones of a chicken ; that they would take any advantage of the game , or their superior skill in it , of the race , and their private knowledge of the horses engaged ; in so far , they followed the practice of all gentlemen : but when they played , they played fair ; and when they lost , they paid . 
Now Madam Bernstein was loth to tell her Virginian nephew all she knew to his family 's discredit ; she was even touched by my lord 's forbearance in regard to Harry on his first arrival in Europe ; and pleased with his lordship 's compliance with her wishes in this particular . 
But in the conversation which she had with her nephew Castlewood regarding Maria 's designs on Harry , he had spoken his mind out with his usual cynicism , voted himself a fool for having spared a lad whom no sparing would eventually keep from ruin ; pointed out Mr. Harry 's undeniable extravagances and spendthrift associates , his nights at faro and hazard , and his rides to Newmarket , and asked why he alone should keep his hands from the young fellow ? 
In vain Madam Bernstein pleaded that Harry was poor . 
he was heir to a principality which ought to have been his , Castlewood 's , and might have set up their ruined family . 
Were there not money-lenders in the town who would give him money on post-obits in plenty ? 
Castlewood knew as much to his cost : he had applied to them in his father 's lifetime , and the cursed crew had eaten up two-thirds of his miserable income . 
He spoke with such desperate candour and ill humour , that Madam Bernstein began to be alarmed for her favourite , and determined to caution him at the first opportunity . 
So she sent one of her men to Mr. Harry 's lodging , bidding him come and drink a dish of tea with her next day , when she proposed to warn him . 
But the next morning she was indisposed , and could not receive Mr. Harry when he came : and she kept her chamber for a couple of days , and the next day there was a great engagement ; and the next day Mr. Harry was off on some expedition of his own . 
Ever so many days passed before Mr. Warrington and his aunt had that confidential conversation which the latter desired . 
She began by scolding him mildly about his extravagance and mad-cap frolics -LRB- though in truth , she was charmed with him for both -RRB- -- he replied that young men will be young men , and that it was in dutifully waiting in attendance on his aunt , he had made the acquaintance with whom he mostly lived at present . 
She then , with some prelude , began to warm him regarding his cousin , Lord Castlewood ; on which he broke into a bitter laugh , and said the good-natured world had told him plenty about Lord Castlewood already . 
said Harry , with something like an imprecation on his lips . 
answeres Harry , gallantly . 
He looked very brave and brilliant , with his rich lace , his fair face and hair , his fine new suit of velvet and gold . 
On taking leave of his aunt he gave his usual sumptuous benefactions to her servants , who crowded round him . 
And I make you my compliment upon my lord , and , Mr. Will Esmond , his brother , '' says Harry 's neighbour at the hazard-table . 
Whether it was upon this occasion of taking the box , that Mr. Harry threw the fifteen mains mentioned in one of those other letters of Mr. Walpole 's , which have not come into his present learned editor 's hands , I know not ; but certain it is , that on his first appearance at White 's , Harry had five or six evenings of prodigious good luck , and seemed more than ever the Fortunate Youth . 
The five hundred pounds withdrawn from his patrimonial inheritance had multiplied into thousands . 
He bought fine clothes , purchased fine horses , give grand entertainments , made handsome presents , lived as if he had been as rich as Sir James Lowther , or his Grace of Bedford , and yet the five thousand pounds never seemed to diminish . 
During this vein of his luck , what must Mr. Harry do , but find out from Lady Maria what her ladyship 's debts were , and pay them off to the last shilling . 
Her stepmother and half-sister , who did not love her , he treated to all sorts of magnificent presents . 
`` Although you bit him in that affair of the horse , the Mohock will certainly take you out of pawn . '' 
Why , he was good for a thousand at least . '' 
Mr. Sparks , of Tavistock Street , Covent Garden , took the liberty of waiting upon Mr. Warrington at his lodgings in Bond Street , with the pearl necklace and the gold etwee which he had bought in Lady Maria 's company the day before ; and asking whether he , Sparks , should leave them at his honour 's lodging , or send them to her ladyship with his honour 's compliments ? 
Harry added a ring out of the stock which the jeweller happened to bring with him , to the necklace and the etwee ; and sumptuously bidding that individual to send him in the bill , took a majestic leave of Mr. Sparks , who retired , bowing even to Gumbo , as he quitted his honour 's presence . 
SO Mr. Harry Warrington , of Virginia , had his lodgings in Bond Street , London , England , and lived upon the fat of the land , and drank bumpers of the best wine thereof . 
His title of Fortunate Youth was pretty generally recognised . 
Being young , wealthy , good-looking , and fortunate , the fashionable world took him by the hand and made him welcome . 
Harry was liked because he was likeable ; because he was rich , handsome , jovial , well-born , well-bred , brave ; because , with jolly topers , he liked a jolly song and a bottle ; because , with gentlemen sportsmen , he loved any game that was a-foot or a-horseback ; because , with ladies , he had a modest blushing timidity which rendered the lad interesting ; because , to those humbler than himself in degree he was always magnificently liberal , and anxious to spare annoyance . 
There were operas for him , in which he took but moderate delight . 
One day his kinsman , Lord Castlewood , took him to court , and presented Harry to His Majesty , who was now come to town from Kensington . 
But that gracious sovereign either did not like Harry 's introducer , or had other reason for being sulky . 
His Majesty only said , `` O , heard of you from Lady Yarmouth . 
asked Harry . 
`` If he does not want us , we had better not come again , that is all , '' said Harry , simply , `` I never , somehow , considered that German fellow a real king of England . '' 
And , now , if other people show you the cold shoulder , I 'll give you my hand ; '' and , so saying , the gentleman put out a great brown hand , with which he grasped Harry 's . 
`` Yes , my dear Harry . 
`` My mother is not ashamed of her father 's name , nor am I , uncle , '' said Mr. Harry , rather proudly . 
`` Belike , he will , '' growled the Baronet , turning on his heel . 
Harry laughed , and said , `` No ! '' 
Harry found the news of his cold reception at court had already preceded him to White 's . 
The King was jealous of Harry 's favour with the favourite . 
Harry was au mieux with Lady Yarmouth . 
A score of gentlemen wished him a compliment upon his conquest . 
Sir Miles told his wife and Harry as much , when the young man appeared at the appointed hour at the Baronet 's dinner-table , and he rallied Harry in his simple rustic fashion . 
The lady , at first , a grand and stately personage , told Harry , on their further acquaintance , that the reputation which the world had made for him was so bad , that at first she had given him but a frigid welcome . 
At last the innocent youth said , after looking hard in Harry 's face , `` Are you wicked , cousin Harry ? 
`` Yes , but not so very wicked as cousin Harry . 
`` And you are a little pitcher , '' cries papa : `` and my wife , nephew Harry , is a stanch Jacobite -- you wo n't like her the worse for that . 
`` About me , Sir Miles , as much as he pleases , '' cries Harry , warm with port : `` but I 'll break any man 's bones , who dares say a word against my brother ! 
`` You seem to stand up for your friends , nephew Harry , '' says the Baronet . 
Harry , as in duty bound , emptied his glass , filled again , and drank Lady Warrington and Master Miles . 
He went up presently and took a dish of coffee with Lady Warrington : he talked to the young ladies of the house . 
He was quite easy , pleasant , and natural . 
There was one of them somewhat like Fanny Mountain , and this young lady became his special favourite . 
When he went away , they all agreed their wicked cousin was not near so wicked as they had imagined him to be : at any rate , my lady had strong hopes of rescuing him from the pit . 
She sent him a good book that evening , whilst Mr. Harry was at White 's ; with a pretty note , praying that `` Law 's Call '' might be of service to him : and , this dispatched , she and her daughters went off to a rout at the house of a minister 's lady . 
But Harry , before he went to White 's , had driven to his friend Mr. Sparks , in Tavistock Street , and purchased more trinkets for his female cousins -- `` from their aunt in Virginia , '' he said . 
You see , he was full of kindness : he kindled and warmed with prosperity . 
One afternoon , Mr. Harry sate in his Bond Street lodgings , arrayed in his dressing-grown , sipping his chocolate , surrounded by luxury , encased in stain , and yet enveloped in care . 
A few weeks previously , when the luck was with him , and he was scattering his benefactions to and fro , he had royally told Parson Sampson to get together a list of his debts , which he , Mr. Warrington , would pay . 
Accordingly , Sampson had gone to work , and had got together a list , not of all his debts , -- no man ever does set down all , -- but such a catalogue as he thought sufficient to bring in to Mr. Warrington , at whose breakfast-table the divine had humbly waited until his Honour should choose to attend it . 
Harry appeared at length , very pale and languid , in curl-papers , had scarce any appetite for his breakfast ; and the Chaplain , fumbling with his schedule in his pocket , humbly asked if his patron had had a bad night ? 
It was then that Harry , taking the paper and eyeing the Chaplain with rather a wicked look , burst into a laugh , which was , however , anything but jovial . 
Harry asked . 
asks his Reverence , with a voice that was re-assured , though it intended to be alarmed . 
But though he laughed in Sampson 's presence , and strove to put a good face upon the matter , Harry 's head sank down on his chest when the parson quitted him , and he sate over the fire , beating the coals about with the poker , and giving utterance to many naughty disjointed words , which showed , but did not relieve , the agitation of his spirit . 
Harry may have thought Lambert 's greeting rather cold ; but being occupied with his own affairs , he put away that notion . 
How were the ladies of Oakhurst , and Miss Hetty , who was ailing when he passed through in the autumn ? 
Mr. Harry was delighted -- though it must be confessed his face did not exhibit any peculiar signs of pleasure when he heard the news . 
`` My dear colonel , I do what other folks do , '' says Harry , with rather a high manner . 
`` I wish they would meddle with their own affairs , '' says Harry , scowling at his old friend . 
Well , my boy , it is my affair , and you must let Theo 's father and Hetty 's father , and Harry Warrington 's father 's old friend say how it is my affair . '' 
`` Look you , Harry . 
`` Sir , as you say , I meant only kindness , '' says Harry , blushing burning-red . 
Mrs. Lambert will keep her present , which is of small value , and sends you her love and a God bless you -- and so say I , Harry Warrington , with all my heart . '' 
Here the good colonel 's voice was much moved , and his face grew very red , and he passed his hand over his eyes ere he held it out . 
He rose up from his seat , never offering to take the hand which his senior held out to him . 
`` Give me leave to tell Colonel Lambert , '' he said , `` that I have had somewhat too much advice from him . 
Saying which , and rustling in his brocade dressing-gown , Mr. Warrington , with much state , walked off to his bedroom . 
ON the rejection of his peace-offerings , our warlike young American chief chose to be in great wrath not only against Colonel Lambert , but the whole of that gentleman 's family . 
When Harry went out upon business , which took him to the city and the Temple , his parasite did not follow him very far into the Strand ; but turned away , owning that he had a terror of Chancery Lane , its inhabitants , and precincts . 
Mr. Warrington went then to his broker , and they walked to the Bank together , where they did some little business , at the end of which , and after the signing of a trifling signature or two , Harry departed with a certain number of crisp bank-notes in his pocket . 
The broker took Mr. Warrington to one of the great dining-houses for which the city was famous then as now ; and afterwards showed Mr. Warrington the Virginia walk upon ` Change , through which Harry passed rather shamefacedly . 
What would a certain lady in Virginia say , he thought , if she knew that he was carrying off in that bottomless gambler 's pocket a great portion of his father 's patrimony ? 
Those are all Virginia merchants , think he , and they are all talking to one another about me , and all saying , `` That is young Esmond , of Castlewood , on the Potomac , Madam Esmond 's son ; and he has been losing his money at play , and he has been selling out so much , and so much , and so much . '' 
His spirits did not rise until he had passed under the traitors ' heads of Temple Bar , and was fairly out of the city . 
From the Strand Mr. Harry walked home , looking in at St. James 's Street by the way ; but there was nobody there as yet , the company not coming to the chocolate house till a later hour . 
Arrived at home , Mr. Harry pulls out his bundle of bank-notes ; puts three of them into a sheet of paper , which he seals carefully , having previously written within the sheet the words , `` Much good may they do you , H. E. W. , '' and this packet he directs to the Reverend Mr. Sampson , -- leaving it on the chimney glass , with directions to his servants to give it to that divine when he should come in . 
Harry has no objection to a little picquet . 
`` Certainly , out of the noise , '' says Harry . 
And they see Mr. Warrington galloping up the street , and scared coachmen and chairmen clearing before him : presently my Lord Castlewood is seen to enter a chair , and go his way . 
Harry drives up to his own door . 
Harry bids him to go up-stairs and bring down a letter addressed to Mr. Sampson . 
says Harry ; and Gumbo leisurely retires to fetch that document . 
As soon as Harry has it , he turns his horses ' heads towards St. James 's Street , and the two gentlemen , still yawning out of the window at White 's , behold the Fortunate Youth , in an instant , back again . 
Mr. Warrington goes to the clerk 's desk , pays his account of the previous night , and , sitting down at the table , calls for fresh counters . 
He calls for more counters , and more presently . 
He is a little pale and silent , though very easy and polite when talked to . 
But he can not win . 
At last he gets up . 
`` I have had enough for to-night , my lord , '' says Harry , and rises and goes away , and eats a broiled bone in the coffee-room , and walks back to his lodgings sometime about midnight . 
Harry minds him that he has got the repeating watch under his pillow which he had bought for Hester . 
My lord knows picquet better than Harry does , but he would not deal unfairly with his own flesh and blood . 
Harry is glad his kinsman , who wanted the money , has got it . 
And for not more shilling than he possessed , would he play . 
It was when he counted up his losses at the gaming-table , and found they would cover all the remainder of his patrimony , that he passed the box and left the table . 
The housemaid enters to light his Honour 's fire and admit the dun morning into his windows . 
groans Harry , '' 't was the worst night you ever made in your life ! 
he asks . 
He turns round savagely upon unhappy Sampson , who sits with his head buried in his breast . 
An execration and a savage laugh , I am sorry to say , burst out of Harry 's lips at this sudden movement of the Chaplain 's . 
Sampson heard the savage laughter , and then the voice of Harry calling from the stairs , `` Sampson , Sampson ! 
Harry heard the door of the street as the Parson slammed it . 
Dashing the filthy importunate brutes aside , and , as it were , kicking his ugly remembrances away from him , Mr. Warrington seized a great glass of that fire-water which he had recommended to poor humiliated Parson Sampson , and , flinging off his fine damask robe , rang for the trembling Gumbo , and ordered his coat . 
Mr. Harry then takes : -- 1 , his fine new gold watch ; 2 , his repeater -LRB- that which he had bought for Hetty -RRB- , which he puts into his other fob ; 3 , his necklace , which he had purchased for Theo ; 4 , his rings , of which my gentleman must have half-a-dozen at least -LRB- with the exception of his grandfather 's old seal-ring , which he kisses and lays down on the pincushion again -RRB- ; 5 , his three gold snuff-boxes ; and 6 , his purse knitted by his mother , and containing three shillings and sixpence and a pocket-piece brought from Virginia ; and , putting on his hat , issues from his door . 
At the landing he is met by Mr. Ruff , his landlord , who bows and cringes and puts into his Honour 's hand a strip of paper a yard long . 
`` Perhaps his Honour will have the kindness to settle the little account ? '' 
`` Of course I will settle the account , '' says Harry , glumly looking down over Mr. Ruff 's head from the stair above him . 
`` I 'm very -- very much in want of money , sir , '' pleads the voice under him . 
The Guards were at exercise at the King 's Mews at Charing Cross , as Harry passed , and he heard their drums and fifes , and looked in at the gate , and saw them at drill . 
`` I can shoulder a musket at any rate , '' thought he to himself gloomily , as he strode on . 
He crossed St. Martin 's Lane -LRB- where he transacted some business -RRB- , and so made his way into Long Acre , and to the bootmaker 's house where friend Sampson lodged . 
The woman of the house said Mr. Sampson was not at home , but had promised to be at home at one ; and , as she knew Mr. Warrington , showed him up to the Parson 's apartments , where he sate down , and , for want of occupation , tried to read an unfinished sermon of the Chaplain 's . 
Mr. Harry did not take very accurate cognisance of the sermon . 
Presently he heard the landlady 's shrill voice on the stair , pursuing somebody who ascended , and Sampson rushed into the room , followed by the sobbing woman . 
At seeing Harry , Sampson started , and the landlady stopped . 
`` There 's only thirteen pound in the house , and he will he here at one , I tell you ! '' 
cries the gasping Chaplain , pointing to Harry , who rose from the window-seat . 
I 've business with him -- most important business . 
And he soothed and coaxed Mrs. Landlady out of the room , with the crowd of anxious little ones hanging at her coats . 
`` Not a word more , sir , '' says the other , coldly and sadly , bowing and scarcely pressing the hand which Harry offered him . 
`` I see you are still angry with me , '' Harry continue . 
And you are not the only one of the family who has , '' he said , as he looked piteously round the room . 
`` I wish I had never known the name of Esmond or Castlewood , '' he continues , `` or that place yonder of which the picture hangs over my fire-place , and where I have buried myself these long , long years . 
asks Harry . 
He gave me civil words , at least -LRB- saving your presence , Mr. Warrington -RRB- , but no money -- that is , five guineas , which he declared was all he had , and which I took . 
cries out Harry . 
He flung himself down on his knees and seized Harry 's hand . 
says he , `` are you a guardian angel that Heaven hath sent me ? 
says Harry , whom the Chaplain 's adulation and fine phrases rather annoyed . 
A universal whimper arose round Harry , which the Chaplain led off , whilst the young Virginian stood , simpering and well-pleased , in the midst of this congregation . 
Mr. Harry walks off from Long Acre , forgetting almost the griefs of the former four or five days , and tingling with the consciousness of having done a good action . 
The young woman with whom Gumbo had been conversing on that evening when Harry drove up from White 's to his lodging , was Mrs. Molly , from Oakhurst , the attendant of the ladies there . 
Wherever that fascinating Gumbo went , he left friends and admirers in the servants ' hall . 
I think we said it was on a Wednesday evening , he and Mrs. Molly had fetched a walk together , and they were performing the amiable courtesies incident upon parting , when Gumbo 's master came up , and put an end to their twilight whisperings and what not . 
Papa had never told the girls of the presents which Harry had sent , and only whispered a word or two to their mother regarding his quarrel with the young Virginian . 
Mr. Gumbo have been here , Mr. Warrington 's coloured gentleman , miss ; and he says Mr. Warrington have been took by two bailiffs this evening , as he comes out of Sir Miles Warrington 's house , three doors off . '' 
He asked Harry Warrington whether they had port like that in Virginia ? 
He said that was nothing to the wine Harry should taste in Norfolk . 
He praised the wine so , that Harry almost believed that it was good , and winked into his own glass , trying to see some of the merits which his uncle perceived in the ruby nectar . 
Of the two grown daughters , the one was the greatest beauty , the other the greatest genius and angel of any young lady then alive , as Lady Warrington told Harry . 
She sang to him at the harpsichord -- rather out of tune for an angel , Harry thought ; she was ready with advice , instruction , conversation -- with almost too much instruction and advice , thought Harry , who would have far preferred the society of the little cousin who reminded him of Fanny Mountain at home . 
Ere many days ' acquaintance , he and his little Cousin Miles had been to have a galloping-match in the Park , and Harry , who was kind and generous to every man alive who came near him , had in view the purchase of a little horse for his cousin , far better than that which the boy rode , when the circumstances occurred which brought all our poor Harry 's coaches and horses to a sudden break-down . 
Though Sir Miles Warrington had imagined Virginia to be an island , the ladies were much better instructed in geography , and anxious to hear from Harry all about his home and his native country . 
He , on his part , was not averse to talk about it . 
He described to them the length and breadth of his estate ; the rivers which it coasted ; the produce which it bore . 
He had had with a friend a little practice of surveying in his boyhood . 
He made a map of his county , with some fine towns here and there , which , in truth , were but log-huts -LRB- but , for the honour of his country , he was desirous that they should wear as handsome a look as possible -RRB- . 
Claypool in his red waistcoat , would sit dumb before the splendid Harry in his ruffles and laces , talking of March and Chesterfield , Selwyn and Bolingbroke , and the whole company of Macaronis . 
Mamma began to love Harry more and more as a son . 
Harry , Harry ! 
We must reclaim thee , dear Harry ! 
Whilst these sentimentalities were going on , it is to be presumed that Mr. Warrington kept his own counsel about his affairs out-of-doors , which we have seen were in the very worst condition . 
He who had been favoured by fortune for so many weeks was suddenly deserted by her , and a few days had served to kick down all his heap of winnings . 
We would insinuate nothing so disrespectful to his lordship 's character ; but he had won from Harry every shilling which properly belonged to him , and would have played him for his reversions but that the young man flung up his hands when he saw himself so far beaten , and declared that he must continue the battle no more . 
Remembering that there still remained a spar out of the wreck , as it were -- that portion which he had set aside for poor Sampson -- Harry ventured it at the gaming-table ; but that last resource went down along with the rest of Harry 's possessions , and Fortune fluttered off in the storm , leaving the luckless adventurer almost naked on the shore . 
Harry would sell his horses and carriages , and diminish his train of life . 
If he wanted immediate supplies of money , would not his Aunt Bernstein be his banker , or his kinsman who had won so much from him , or his kind Uncle Warrington and Lady Warrington who were always talking virtue and benevolence , and declaring that they loved him as a son ? 
Now this broker was a relative or partner of that very Mr. Sparks of Tavistock Street from whom Harry had purchased -- purchased did we say ? 
-- no ; taken the trinkets which he had intended to present to his Oakhurst friends ; and it chanced that Mr. Sparks came to visit his brother tradesman very soon after Mr. Warrington had disposed of his goods . 
Recognising immediately the little enamelled diamond-handled repeater which he had sold to the Fortunate Youth , the jeweller broke out into expressions regarding Harry which I will not mention here , being already accused of speaking much too plainly . 
They easily learned from the garrulous Gumbo that his honour was at Sir Miles Warrington 's house in Hill Street , and whilst the black was courting Mrs. Lambert 's maid at the adjoining mansion , Mr. Costigan and his assistant lay in wait for poor Harry , who was enjoying the delights of intercourse with a virtuous family circle assembled round his aunt 's table . 
`` There , there , '' says papa , `` a kiss wo n't do no harm , and wo n't tell no tales : will it nephew Harry ? '' 
most affectionately : he presses Harry 's hand , and repeats his valuable benediction at the door . 
As it closes , the light from the hall within having sufficiently illuminated Mr. Warrington 's face and figure , two gentlemen , who have been standing on the opposite side of the way , advanced rapidly , and one of them takes a strip of paper out of his pocket , and putting his hand upon Mr. Warrington 's shoulder , declares him his prisoner . 
A hackney coach is in attendance , and poor Harry goes to sleep in Chancery Lane . 
N6310073 REMORSE for past misdeeds and follies Harry sincerely felt , when he found himself a prisoner in that dismal lock-up house , and wrath and annoyance at the idea of being subjected to the indignity of arrest ; but the present unpleasantry he felt sure could only be momentary . 
He had twenty friends who would release him from his confinement : to which of them should he apply , was the question . 
Mr. Draper , the man of business , who had been so obsequious to him : his kind uncle the baronet , who had offered to make his house Harry 's home , who loved him as a son : his Cousin Castlewood , who had won such large sums from him : his noble friends at the Chocolate House , his good Aunt Bernstein -- any one of these Harry felt sure would give him a help in his trouble , though some of the relatives , perhaps , might administer to him a little scolding for his imprudence . 
Whereas Mr. Harry Warrington chafed and fumed as though all the world was tingling with the touch of that hand which had been laid on his sublime shoulder . 
thought Harry . 
No , '' thought he , with his mingled acuteness and simplicity , `` I will not send in the first instance to any of my relations or my noble friends at White 's . 
Accordingly , as soon as the light of dawn appeared , after an almost intolerable delay -- for it seemed to Harry as if the sun had forgotten to visit Cursitor Street in his rounds that morning -- and as soon as the inmates of the house of bondage were stirring , Mr. Warrington dispatched a messenger to his friend in Long Acre , acquainting the Chaplain with the calamity just befallen him , and beseeching his reverence to give him the benefit of his advice and consolation . 
Harry very likely thought Sampson 's difficulties were over : or , more likely still , was so much engrossed with his own affairs and perplexities , as to bestow little thought upon his neighbour 's . 
Having sent off his missive the captive 's mind was somewhat more at ease , and he condescended to call for breakfast , which was brought to him presently . 
He should quit the place before dinner-time , he informed the chamberlain who waited on him in that grim tavern . 
`` Well , if your honour does stay , there is good beef and carrot at two o'clock , '' says the sceptic , and closes the door on Mr. Harry and his solitary meditations . 
Harry 's messenger to Mr. Sampson brought back a message from that gentleman to say that he would be with his patron as soon as might be : but ten o'clock came , eleven o'clock , noon , and no Sampson . 
No Sampson arrived , but about twelve Gumbo with a portmanteau of his master 's clothes , who flung himself , roaring with grief , at Harry 's feet : and with a thousand vows of fidelity , expressed himself ready to die , to sell himself into slavery over again , to do anything to rescue his beloved Master Harry from this calamitous position . 
Harry was touched with the lad 's expressions of affection , and told him to get up from the ground where he was grovelling on his knees , embracing his master 's . 
says Gumbo , looking most solemnly , and proceeded to dress his master carefully , who had need of a change and a toilette after his yesterday 's sudden capture , and night 's dismal rest . 
Accordingly Gumbo flung a dash of powder in Harry 's hair , and arrayed his master carefully and elegantly , so that he made Mr. Warrington look as fine and splendid as if he had been stepping into his chair to go to St. James 's . 
Gumbo 's loquacity had not reached so far as Long Acre , and Mr. Sampson was ignorant of the extent of his patron 's calamity until he received Harry 's letter and messenger from Chancery Lane . 
The divine was still ardent with gratitude for the service Mr. Warrington had just conferred on him , and eager to find some means to succour his distressed patron . 
He knew what a large sum Lord Castlewood had won from his cousin , had dined in company with his lordship on the day before , and now ran to Lord Castlewood 's house , with a hope of arousing him to some pity for Mr. Warrington . 
I not only ca n't help Mr. Warrington , but , as I pledge you my word , not being in the least aware of his calamity , I had positively written to him this morning to ask him to help me . '' 
And a letter to this effect did actually reach Mr. Warrington from his lodgings , whither it had been dispatched by the pennypost . 
`` I must get him money , my lord . 
I know he had scarcely anything left in his pocket after relieving me . 
Were I to pawn my cassock and bands , he must have money , '' cried the Chaplain . 
`` Have I not been in mortal anxiety ever since his servant brought the dreadful news last night ? '' 
Has Mr. Harry cried off , or has your ladyship got a better offer ? '' 
`` If you wo n't have him , one of the Warrington girls will , I promise you ; and the old Methodist woman in Hill Street will give him the choice of either . 
She would have cross-examined the black , and had further particulars respecting Harry 's mishap ; but Mr. Gumbo , anxious to carry his intelligence to other quarters , had vanished when her ladyship sent for him . 
So , on their different beds , she and Harry were lying wakeful together ; and quite early in the morning the messengers which each sent forth on the same business may have crossed each other . 
Draper 's emissaries speedily found out that Mr. Warrington was locked up close beside them , and the amount of detainers against him so far . 
Were there other creditors , as no doubt there were , they would certainly close upon him when they were made acquainted with his imprisonment . 
The jeweller 's account ought especially to be paid , for Mr. Harry had acted most imprudently in taking goods from Mr. Sparks on credit , and pledging them with a pawnbroker . 
Should he go that instant and settle the matter with Messrs. Amos ? 
Mr. Harry might be back to dine with her at two , and to confound the people at the clubs , who are no doubt rejoicing over his misfortunes , said the compassionate Mr. Draper . 
Six and thirty hours passed ere the invitation came , during which period Harry passed the dreariest two days which he ever remembered to have spent . 
There was no want of company in the lock-up house , the bailiff 's rooms were nearly always full ; but Harry preferred the dingy solitude of his own room to the society round his landlady 's table , and it was only on the second day of his arrest , and when his purse was emptied by the heavy charges of the place , that he made up his mind to apply to Mr. Draper . 
Sampson gone , Harry was obliged to have recourse to his own negro servant , who was kept on the trot all day between Temple Bar and the Court end of the town with letters from his unlucky master . 
Firstly , then , Harry sent off a most private and confidential letter to his kinsman the Right Honourable the Earl of Castlewood , saying how he had been cast into prison , and begging Castlewood to lend him the amount of the debt . 
`` Please to keep my application , and the cause of it , a profound secret from the dear ladies , '' wrote poor Harry . 
This was the result of application number one : and we may imagine that Mr. Harry read the reply to his petition with rather a blank face . 
With a feeling of shyness and modesty in presence of those virtuous parents and family , Harry had never said a word about his wild doings , or his horse-racings , or his gamblings , or his extravagances . 
He must confess himself a Prodigal and a Sinner , and ask for their forgiveness and aid . 
Hours of mortification and profound thought as to the pathos of the composition did Harry pass over that letter ; sheet after sheet of Mr. Amos 's sixpence a sheet letter-paper did he tear up before the missive was complete , with which poor blubbering Gumbo -LRB- much vilified by the bailiff 's followers and parasites , whom he was robbing , as they conceived , of their perquisites -RRB- went his way . 
Harry opened the letter with a trembling hand . 
He thought it was full of bank-notes . 
Of course , in the absence of Sir Miles , she could not hope to have at command such a sum as that for which Mr. Warrington wrote , but she sent him her heartfelt prayers , her deepest commiseration , and a discourse by dear Mr. Whitfield , which would comfort him in his present -LRB- alas ! 
If she might speak of things worldly she said at such a moment , she would hint to Mr. Warrington that his epistolary orthography was anything but correct . 
She would not fail for her part to comply with his express desire that his dear cousins should know nothing of this most painful circumstance , and with every wish for his welfare here and elsewhere , she subscribed herself his loving aunt , Margaret Warrington . 
Poor Harry hid his face between his hands , and sate for a while with elbows on the greasy table blankly staring into the candle before him . 
The bailiff 's servant , who was touched by his handsome face , suggested a mug of beer for his honour , but Harry could not drink , nor eat the meat that was placed before him . 
Gumbo however could , whose grief did not deprive him of appetite , and who , blubbering the while , finished all the beer , and all the bread and the meat . 
Meanwhile , Harry had finished another letter , with which Gumbo was commissioned to start again , and away the faithful creature ran upon his errand . 
At least the letter which Harry expected had not taken long to write . 
Harry burst into such a yell of laughter that his landlord thought he had good news , and ran in in alarm lest he was about to lose his tenant . 
But by this time poor Harry 's laughter was over , and he was flung down in his chair gazing dismally in the fire . 
`` I -- I should like to smoke a pipe of Virginia , '' he groaned . 
Gumbo burst into tears : he flung himself at Harry 's knees . 
He kissed his knees and his hands . 
he sobbed out . 
The jailor was touched at the sight of the black 's grief and fidelity , and at Harry 's pale face as he sank back in his chair , quite overcome and beaten by his calamity . 
`` My good friend , '' said Harry , a sickly smile playing over his white face , `` you pay ready money for everything in this house , do n't you ? 
Harry said , laying his hand on the lad 's woolly head . 
And Harry ate his supper with a relish : and even the turnkeys and bailiff 's followers , when Gumbo went out of the house that night , shook hands with him , and ever after treated him well . 
MR. GUMBO 'S generous and feeling conduct soothed and softened the angry heart of his master , and Harry 's second night in the sponging-house was passed more pleasantly than the first . 
Somebody at least there was , to help and compassionate with him . 
Still , though softened in that one particular spot , Harry 's heart was hard and proud towards almost all the rest of the world . 
They were selfish and ungenerous , he thought . 
His pious aunt Warrington , his lordly friend March , his cynical cousin Castlewood , -- all had been tried , and were found wanting . 
Not to avoid twenty years of prison would he stoop to ask a favour of one of them again . 
Fool that he had been , to believe in their promises , and confide in their friendship ! 
He would leave it . 
He would trust no Englishman , great or small . 
He would go to Germany , and make a campaign with the king ; or he would go home to Virginia , bury himself in the woods there , and hunt all day ; become his mother 's factor and land-steward ; marry Polly Broadbent , or Fanny Mountain ; turn regular tobacco-grower and farmer ; do anything , rather than remain amongst these English fine gentlemen . 
So he arose with an outwardly cheerful countenance , but an angry spirit ; and at an early hour in the morning the faithful Gumbo was in attendance in his master 's chamber , having come from Bond Street , and brought Mr. Harry 's letters thence . 
Harry did not care to look at the letters : he opened one , two , three ; they were all bills . 
He opened a fourth ; it was from the landlord , to say that he would allow no more of Mr. Warrington 's things to go out of the house , -- that unless his bill was paid he should sell Mr. W. 's goods and pay himself ; and that his black man must go and sleep elsewhere . 
He would hardly let Gumbo take his own clothes and portmanteau away . 
The black said he had found refuge elsewhere -- with some friends at Lord Wrotham 's house . 
''' Harry was touched when he heard that Hetty had been afflicted by his misfortune . 
He did not believe Gumbo 's story about her fainting ; he was accustomed to translate his black 's language and to allow for exaggeration . 
And presently , being dressed , Mr. Warrington called for his breakfast , and dispatched Gumbo with a brief note to Mr. Draper in the Temple , requiring that gentleman 's attendance . 
`` The note was as haughty as if he was writing to one of his negroes , and not to a free-born English gentleman , '' Draper said ; whom indeed Harry had always treated with insufferable condescension . 
The course which Draper was to pursue in his interview with Harry had been arranged between the Baroness and her man of business on the previous day . 
says Mr. Warrington , folding his brocaded dressing-gown round his legs as he sits on the dingy bed . 
In common with the rest of the world , Draper believed Harry 's hereditary property in Virginia to be as great in money-value as in extent . 
He had notes in his pocket , and Madame Bernstein 's order to pay them under certain conditions : nevertheless , when Harry said , `` It can be done ! '' 
And tell her , that I confide in her affection and kindness for me to release me from this -- this disgrace , '' and Mr. Warrington 's voice shook a little , and he passed his hand across his eyes . 
asked Harry . 
Harry turned burning red . 
cried Harry , in the greatest agitation . 
says Harry , speaking each word very slow , and evidently trying to keep a command of himself . 
says Harry . 
says Harry , with a groan . 
The lawyer though the day was his own . 
`` Tell them , sir , '' says Mr. Harry . 
said Harry ; and his countenance looked more cheerful than it had yet done . 
cries Harry , turning almost as red as the ink which he had used to write his absurd promise , of which the madness and folly had smote him with shame a thousand times over . 
Harry only longed himself to be rid of the engagement from which his aunt wanted to free him . 
The lawyer 's familiarity digusted Harry , who shrank from Draper , scarcely knowing that he did so . 
He folded his dressing-gown round him , and stepped back from the other 's proffered hand . 
`` Give me a little time to think of the matter , if you please , Mr. Draper , '' he said , `` and have the goodness to come to me again in an hour . '' 
`` Mr. Warrington is in his apartment , '' said the gentleman , `` but -- '' and here the gentleman winked at Mr. Draper , and laid his hand on his nose . 
GOING off in his wrath from his morning 's conversation with Harry , Mr. Draper thought he heard the young prisoner speak behind him ; and , indeed , Harry had risen , and uttered a half-exclamation to call the lawyer back . 
But he was proud , and the other offended : Harry checked his words , and Draper did not choose to stop . 
It wounded Harry 's pride to be obliged to humble himself before the lawyer , and to have to yield from mere lack and desire of money . 
`` An hour hence will do as well , '' thought Harry , and lapsed sulkily on to the bed again . 
No , he did not care for Maria Esmond . 
No : he was ashamed of the way in which he had been entrapped into that engagement . 
A wily and experienced woman , she had cheated his boyish ardour . 
She had taken unfair advantage of him , as her brother had at play . 
They were his own flesh and blood , and they ought to have spared him . 
Instead , one and the other had made a prey of him , and had used him for their selfish ends . 
He thought how they had betrayed the rights of hospitality : how they had made a victim of the young kinsman who came confiding within their gates . 
Harry sat up , pale and haggard , on his bed . 
The lady , with a sob , and almost ere the servant-man withdrew , ran towards the young prisoner , put her arms round his neck with real emotion and a maternal tenderness , sobbed over his pale cheek and kissed it in the midst of plentiful tears , and cried out -- `` O , my Harry ! 
said poor Harry , with a groan . 
Harry 's mother could not have been fonder , nor her tones more tender than those of his kinswoman now kneeling at his feet . 
And she poured brooches , rings , a watch , and a score or so of guineas into Harry 's lap . 
The dark day seemed brighter to Harry after Maria 's visit : the imprisonment not so hard to bear . 
Here was a fond creature who really and truly loved him . 
Even Castlewood was not so bad as he had thought . 
He had expressed the deepest grief at not being able to assist his kinsman . 
He was hopelessly in debt . 
Every shilling he had won from Harry he had lost on the next day to others . 
Anything that lay in his power he would do . 
He would come soon and see Mr. Warrington : he was in waiting to-day , and as much a prisoner as Harry himself . 
So the pair talked on cheerfully and affectionately until the darkness began to close in , when Maria , with a sigh , bade Harry farewell . 
His voice jarred upon Harry 's ear , and his presence offended the young man . 
`` I had expected you some hours ago , sir , '' he curtly said . 
`` Mr. Draper , you suppose a great deal more than you know , '' says Mr. Warrington , looking very fierce and tall , as he folds his brocade dressing-gown round him . 
Why she 's old enough to be -- '' `` Enough , sir , '' says Mr. Warrington , with a stamp of his foot . 
Harry stepped forward , with his two hands clenched . 
`` If you utter another word , '' he said , `` I 'll -- '' The door was shut rapidly -- the sentence was never finished , and Draper went away furious to Madame de Bernstein , from whom , though he gave her the best version of his story , he got still fiercer language than he had received from Mr. Warrington himself . 
says Harry , stalking up and down his room in his flowing , rustling brocade . 
Her lawyer dismissed after a stormy interview , the desolate old woman was fain to sit down to the meal which she had hoped to share with her nephew . 
A gentleman whose face and figure exactly resembled Harry Warrington , and whose voice , when he spoke , had tones strangely similar , had followed the servant into the room . 
He bowed low towards the Baroness . 
he said . 
Please God , my supper will be with Harry to-night ! '' 
`` Bring him back . 
Bring him back here on any conditions ! 
Mr. Warrington made a very stately bow for answer , and quitted the room , passing by the amazed domestics , and calling with an air of authority to Gumbo to follow him . 
Had Mr. Harry received no letters from home ? 
Master Harry had not opened all his letters the last day or two . 
Had he received no letter announcing his brother 's escape from the French settlements and return to Virginia ? 
He had written to Harry , announcing his arrival at Bristol . 
He had previously written to his brother , giving the great news of his existence and his return from captivity . 
The letter telling of George 's arrival in England was never opened by poor Harry ; it was lying at the latter 's apartments , which it reached on the third morning after Harry 's captivity , when the angry Mr. Ruff had refused to give up any single item more of his lodger 's property . 
The mistress not liking to tell the truth , or to own that poor Harry was actually a prisoner at her husband 's suit , said Mr. Warrington had left his lodgings ; she did not know where Mr. Warrington was . 
Aunt Bernstein would tell him where Harry was . 
He might be with her at that very moment . 
George had read in Harry 's letters to Virginia about Aunt Bernstein 's kindness to Harry . 
`` She does feel my poor Harry 's misfortune , '' he thought to himself , `` I have been too hasty in judging her . '' 
The Jewish janitor stares , as by his flaring tallow-torch he sees a second Mr. Warrington before him . 
Gumbo must go and prepare his master first . 
`` We are not angry any more , Harry ! '' 
You must be Colonel Lambert , of whose kindness to him my poor Harry wrote . 
And I am the brother whom you have heard of , sir ; and who was left for dead in Mr. Braddock 's action ; and came to life again after eighteen months amongst the French ; and live to thank God and thank you for your kindness to my Harry , '' continued the lad with a faltering voice . 
Here is Harry Scapegrace 's brother come back , and with his scalp on his head , too ! '' 
You must know there has been a little difference between Harry and me , Mr. George . 
`` Harry wrote home about Mr. Wolfe , too , sir , '' said the young man , `` and I hope my brother 's friends will be so kind as to be mine . '' 
Poor Harry 's fine folks have been too fine for him , and have ended by landing him here . '' 
`` Nay , your honours , I have done my best to make the young gentleman comfortable ; and , knowing your honour before , when you came to bail Captain Watkins , and that your security is perfectly -- good , if your honour wishes , the young gentleman can go out this very night , and I will make it all right with the lawyer in the morning , '' says Harry 's landlord , who knew the rank and respectability of the two gentlemen who had come to offer bail for his young prisoner . 
Gumbo had , meanwhile , gone up-stairs to his master 's apartment , where Harry would probably have scolded the negro for returning that night , but that the young gentleman was very much soothed and touched by the conversation he had had with the friend who had just left him . 
In spite of Harry 's ill-temper , and needless suspicion and anger , the good gentleman was determined to help him if he might -- to help him even against Mr. Wolfe 's own advice , as the latter frankly told Harry , `` For you were wrong , Mr. Warrington , '' said the Colonel , `` and you would n't be set right ; and you , a young man , used hard words and unkind behaviour to your senior , and what is more , one of the best gentlemen who walks God 's earth . 
Harry , and shake our friend by the hand ! 
He is sitting in the room below . 
He would not come here till he knew how you would receive him . '' 
`` I think he is a good man ! '' 
groaned out Harry . 
`` I was very angry and wild at the time when he and I met last , Colonel Wolfe . 
`` Tell him all this thyself , Harry ! '' 
I will but put on a coat and come to him . 
Give him my message first . 
Just -- just prepare him for me ! '' 
says poor Harry , who knew he must do it , but yet did not much like that process of eating of humble-pie . 
Saw him at Madame Bernstein 's house . 
says Harry , in a strange agitation . 
Gumbo 's head rolls nearly off in its violent convolutions , and his master looking oddly at him , flings the door open , and goes rapidly down the stair . 
He is at the foot of it , just as a voice within the little office , of which the door is open , is saying , `` and for doing so , I say thank you , and God bless you , in my mother 's name and mine . '' 
calls out Harry Warrington , with a strange cry in his own voice . 
says Gumbo , from behind ; and Harry runs forward to the room , -- where , if you please , we will pause a little minute before we enter . 
The prodigal was on his brother 's heart , -- his own full of love , gratitude , repentance . 
Harry felt almost unhappy when he went away . 
Poor Harry in his distress asked help from his relations : his aunt sent him a tract and her blessing ; his uncle had business out of town , and could not , of course , answer the poor boy 's petition . 
`` First you said cousin Harry was bad : then he was good : now he is bad again . 
Which is he , Sir Miles ? '' 
`` I know I love Harry , and I did n't love Hugh , '' says the sturdy little rebel . 
`` And if cousin Harry is in prison , I 'll give him my half-guinea that my godpapa gave me , and anything I have -- yes , anything , except -- except my little horse -- and my silver waistcoat -- and -- and Snowball and Sweetlips at home -- and -- and , yes , my custard after dinner . '' 
`` But I 'd give him some of it , '' continues Miles , after a pause . 
`` Who would have thought he should ever be so wild ? '' 
`` That we should be so misled in him ! '' 
`` That he should kiss us both ! '' 
`` Pray , miss , was your Mr. Harry , of Virginia , much wiser than Tom Claypool ? 
`` You was a saying that Harry was very poor now , and that we ought n't to help him . 
`` That confounded young scamp of a Harry Warrington ! '' 
`` O Harry ! 
which is Harry ? 
You 're my Harry , '' and he chooses rightly this time . 
`` O , you dear Harry ! 
cries their uncle , grasping affectionately a hand of each , as his honest face radiates with pleasure . 
`` Yes , '' cries out a little voice , `` and do you know , Harry , father and mother said you was a -- a imp -- '' `` Silence , my child ! 
Screwby , convey Master Warrington to his own apartment ! 
breaks out Harry , to whom no one had thought of saying a single word . 
His reign was over , you see . 
He was nobody . 
What wonder , then , that he should not be visible ? 
If , through my means , you have been brought , Harry , to consider -- '' `` O ! 
breaks in downright Harry . 
Our dear friend , General Lambert , intended to give bail for Harry ; but , happily , I had funds of Harry 's with me to meet any demands upon us . 
`` The younger must be reckless and extravagant about money indeed , for did you remark , Sir Miles , the loss of his reversion in Virginia -- the amount of which has , no doubt , been grossly exaggerated , but , nevertheless , must be something considerable -- did you , I say , remark that the ruin of Harry 's prospects scarcely seemed to affect him ? '' 
`` He ! 
he ! 
Did you see that Cousin George had one of Cousin Harry 's suits of clothes on -- the brown and gold -- that one he wore when he went with you to the oratorio , Flora ? '' 
`` Did he take Flora to an oratorio ? '' 
When Harry Warrington was taken by those bailiffs , I had intended to tell you how the good Mrs. Lambert , hearing of the boy 's mishap , had flown to her husband , and had begged , implored , insisted , that her Martin should help him . 
`` Never mind his rebeldom of the other day ; never mind about his being angry that his presents were returned -- of course anybody would be angry , much more such a high-spirited lad as Harry ! 
Never mind about our being so poor , and wanting all our spare money for the boys at college ; there must be some way of getting him out of the scrape . 
Now , as Martin Lambert requires very little persuasion to do a kind action , he in this instance lets himself be persuaded easily enough , and having made up his mind to seek for friend James Wolfe , and give bail for Harry , he takes his leave and his hat , and squeezes Theo 's hand , who seems to divine his errand -LRB- or perhaps that silly mamma has blabbed it -RRB- , and kisses little Hetty 's flushed check , and away he goes out of the apartment where the girls and their mother are sitting , though he is followed out of the room by the latter . 
When she is alone with him , that enthusiastic matron can not control her feelings any longer . 
When Lambert comes back very late to that meal , and tells what has happened , how Harry is free , and how his brother has come to life and rescued him , you may fancy what a commotion the whole of those people are in ! 
Aunt Lambert is kissing Harry , Theo has snatched up Hetty who is as pale as death , and is hugging her into life again . 
George Warrington stands with his hat off , and then -LRB- when Harry 's transaction is concluded -RRB- goes up and kisses Mrs. Lambert 's hand : the General passes his across his eyes . 
`` We came from aunt Bernstein 's ; we saw lights here , you see , we could n't go to sleep without saying good night to you all , '' says Harry . 
I had my little fusil which my Harry gave me when I went on the campaign ; it had fallen by me and within my reach , luckily ; I seized it and down fell the Frenchman dead at six yards before me . 
I forget whether I told thee , Harry , that Florac was under some obligation to me . 
I had won money of him at cards , at Quebec -- only playing at his repeated entreaty -- and there was a difficulty about paying , and I remitted his debt to me , and lighted my pipe with his note of hand . 
Harry strikes his fist upon the table , and cries , `` The bloody , murderous , red-skinned villains ! 
says Harry , again . 
But for the goodness of a half-breed woman in the fort , who took pity on me , and tended me , I never should have recovered , and my poor Harry would be what he fancied himself yesterday , our grandfather 's heir , our mother 's only son . 
`` But you would have fought , Georgy , if need were , '' says Harry , `` and you could n't conquer a whole garrison , you know ! '' 
And herewith Mr. Harry blushed very much . 
I never was angry yet or surprised that any one should like my Harry better than me . 
cries Harry , and he said to Mrs. Lambert afterwards in confidence , `` You know he is always going on saying that he ought never to have come to life again , and declaring that I am better than he is . 
cries Harry , seizing his brother 's hand , `` I was gambling and making a fool of myself at the Wells and in London , when my George was flying for his life in the wilderness ! 
Indeed , if Harry had erred , to mark his repentance , his love , his unselfish joy and generosity , was to feel that there was hope for the humbled and kind young sinner . 
I may say calf to thee , my poor Harry ! 
`` He came to his family in England , madam , '' says George , with some heat , `` and his friends were your ladyship 's . '' 
`` He could not have come to worse advisers , Nephew Warrington , and so I should have told my sister earlier , had she condescended to write to me by him , as she has done by you , '' said the old lady tossing up her head . 
Being engaged , then , to a card-party , -- an amusement which she never missed , week-day or Sabbath , as long as she had strength to hold trumps or sit in a chair , -- very soon , after George had ended his narration , the old lady dismissed her two nephews , giving to the elder a couple of fingers and a very stately curtsey ; but to Harry two hands and a kindly pat on the cheek . 
The gentlemen went to Ranelagh , where but a few of Mr. Harry 's acquaintances chanced to be present . 
They paced the round , and met Mr. Tom Claypool with some of his country friends ; they heard the music ; they drank tea in a box ; Harry was master of ceremonies , and introduced his brother to the curiosities of the place ; and George was even more excited than his brother had been on his first introduction to this palace of delight . 
George loved music much more than Harry ever did ; he heard a full orchestra for the first time , and a piece of Mr. Handel satisfactorily performed ; and a not unpleasing instance of Harry 's humility and regard for his elder brother was , that he could even hold George 's love of music in respect at a time when fiddling was voted effeminate and unmanly in England , and Britons were , every day , called upon by the patriotic prints to sneer at the frivolous accomplishments of your Squallinis , Monsieurs , and the like . 
After Ranelagh , and pursuant to Madame Bernstein 's advice , George returned to her ladyship 's house , whilst Harry showed himself at the club , where gentlemen were accustomed to assemble at night to sup , and then to gamble . 
Mr. Warrington had caused his trunks and habiliments to be conveyed away from Bond Street in the morning , and he and his brother were now established in apartments elsewhere . 
But when the supper was done , and the gentlemen as usual were about to seek the macco-table up-stairs , Harry said he was not going to play any more . 
He had burned his fingers already , and could afford no more extravagance . 
`` And of course I do n't know my own business as well as you do , Mr. Morris , '' says Harry , sternly , who had not forgotten the other 's behaviour on hearing of his arrest ; `` but I have another reason . 
Now , thank God , I am heir to nothing , '' and he looked round , blushing not a little , to the knot of gentlemen , his gaming associates , who were lounging at the tables or gathered round the fire . 
asks Mr. Selwyn very good-naturedly , and simple Harry hardly knew the meaning of his joke until his brother interpreted it to him . 
`` Who put him up ? 
It was March , I think , put him up ? '' 
Many persons agreed that it was most indecorous of Mr. Harry Warrington to have ever believed in his brother 's death ; that there was something suspicious about the young man 's first appearance and subsequent actions , and , in fine , that regarding these foreigners , adventurers , and the like , we ought to be especially cautious . 
Though he was out of prison and difficulty ; though he had his aunt 's liberal donation of money in his pocket ; though his dearest brother was restored to him , whose return to life Harry never once thought of deploring , as his friends at White 's supposed he would do ; though Maria had shown herself in such a favourable light by her behaviour during his misfortune : yet Harry , when alone , felt himself not particularly cheerful , and smoked his pipe of Virginia with a troubled mind . 
It was not that he was deposed from his principality : the loss of it never once vexed him ; he knew that his brother would share with him as he would have done with his brother ; but after all those struggles and doubts in his own mind , to find himself poor and yet irrevocably bound to his elderly cousin ! 
When she came to that horrible den in Cursitor Street and the tears washed her rouge off , why , she looked as old as his mother ! 
her face was all wrinkled and yellow , and as he thought of her he felt just such a qualm as he had when she was taken ill that day in the coach on their road to Tunbridge . 
What would his mother say when he brought her home , and , Lord , what battles there would be between them ! 
Such were the thoughts which Harry put into his pipe , and he smoked them whilst he waited his brother 's return from Madame Bernstein . 
Honest Harry had seen them , too , but Harry was no book-man , and had not read the manuscript very carefully ; nay , if he had , he would probably not have reasoned about it as his brother did , being by no means so much inclined to moralising as his melancholy senior . 
Mr. Warrington thought that there was no cause why he should tell his aunt how intimate he was with her early history , and accordingly held his peace upon that point . 
I grieve to think that my dearest Harry should have appeared at home -- I mean in England -- under false colours , as it were ; and should have been presented to His Majesty , to our family , and his own , as his father 's heir , whilst my dear son George was still alive , though dead to us . 
My Harry 's is the tenderest of any man 's now alive . 
`` Your beneficent intentions towards dearest Harry will be more than ever welcome , now he is reduced to a younger brother 's slender portion ! 
Many years since , an advantageous opportunity occurred of providing for him in this province , and he would by this time have been master of a noble estate and negroes , and have been enabled to make a figure with most here , could his mother 's wishes have been complied with , and his father 's small portion , now lying at small interest in the British funds , have been invested in this most excellent purchase . 
Harry will find the savings of his income have been carefully accumulated -- long , long may he live to enjoy them ! 
May Heaven bless you , dear sister , for what your ladyship may add to his little store ! 
As I gather from your letter , that the sum which has been allowed to him has not been sufficient for his expenses in the fine company which he has kept -LRB- and the grandson of the Marquis of Esmond , -- one who had so nearly been his lordship 's heir -- may sure claim equality with any other nobleman in Great Britain -RRB- , and having a sum by me which I had always intended for the poor child 's establishment , I entrust it to my eldest son , who , to do him justice , hath a most sincere regard for his brother , to lay it out for Harry 's best advantage . '' 
`` It took him out of prison , yesterday , madam . 
Why not have kept it to buy a pair of colours for him , or to help towards another estate and some negroes , if he has a fancy for home ? '' 
`` I hope you will let his brother do that . 
I ask leave to be my brother 's banker in this matter , and consider I have borrowed so much from my mother , to be paid back to my dear Harry . '' 
`` This remittance will , I trust , amply cover any expenses which , owing to the mistake respecting his position , dearest Harry may have incurred . 
I wish I could trust his elder brother 's prudence as confidently as my Harry 's ! 
But I fear that , even in his captivity , Mr. Esmond W. has learned little of that humility which becomes all Christians , and which I have ever endeavoured to teach to my children . 
Should you by chance show him these lines , when , by the blessing of Heaven on those who go down to the sea in ships , the Great Ocean divides us ! 
`` As for my poor Harry 's marriage , '' Madam Esmond 's letter went on , `` though I know too well , from sad experience , the dangers to which youth is subject , and would keep my boy , at any price , from them , though I should wish him to marry a person of rank , as becomes his birth , yet my Lady Maria Esmond is out of the question . 
My Harry is so obedient that I know a desire from me will be sufficient to cause him to give up this imprudent match . 
`` The report which your ladyship hath given of my Harry fills my heart with warmest gratitude . 
Mr. Stack , one of our invaluable ministers in Richmond , hath a letter from Mr. Ward -- my darling 's tutor of early days -- who knows my Lady Warrington and her excellent family , and saith that my Harry has lived much with his cousins of late . 
`` P.S. -- I have communicated with my Lady Maria ; but there will be no need to tell her and dear Harry that his mother or your ladyship hope to be able to increase his small fortune . 
I always knew that Harry was the favourite son with Madam Esmond , as he deserves indeed to be . 
He has a hundred good qualities which I have not the good fortune to possess . 
He has better looks -- '' `` Nay , that is not your fault , '' said the old lady , slily looking at him ; `` and , but that he is fair and you are brown , one might almost pass for the other . '' 
`` His disposition is bright , and mine is dark , '' he continued ; `` Harry is cheerful , and I am otherwise perhaps . 
He knows how to make himself beloved by everyone , and it has been my lot to find but few friends . '' 
Besides , the house , such as it is , is not Harry 's . 
He is welcome there , Heaven knows ; more welcome , perhaps , than I , to whom the property comes in natural reversion ; but , as I told him , I doubt how his wife would -- would like our colony , '' George said , with a blush , and a hesitation in his sentence . 
`` He , he ! 
Harry has held his tongue , too : but it needed no conjuror to see who was the mistress at home , and what sort of a life my sister led you . 
Harry has said quite enough to show me who governs the family . '' 
I swear to you , on my credit as a gentle woman , that , knowing Harry 's obstinacy , and the misery he had in store for himself , I tried to bribe Maria to give up her engagement with him , and only failed because I could not bribe high enough ! 
When he was in prison , I sent my lawyer to him , with orders to pay his debts immediately , if he would but part from her , but Maria had been beforehand with us , and Mr. Harry chose not to go back from his stupid word . 
Madame Bernstein talked so much , so long , and so cleverly , that she was quite pleased with herself and her listener ; and when she put herself into the hands of Mrs. Brett to retire for the night , informed the waiting-maid that she had changed her opinion about her eldest nephew , and that Mr. George was handsome , that he was certainly much wittier than poor Harry -LRB- whom Heaven , it must be confessed , had not furnished with a very great supply of brains -RRB- , and that he had quite the bel air -- a something melancholy -- a noble and distinguished je ne scais quoy -- which reminded her of the Colonel . 
Can it be that this wily woman of the world as my aunt has represented , has inveigled my poor Harry into an engagement , that her tears are false , and that as soon as she finds him poor she will desert him ? 
George reached his own door revolving these thoughts , and Gumbo came up yawning with a candle , and Harry was asleep before the extinguished fire , with the ashes of his emptied pipe on the table beside him . 
He starts up , his eyes for a moment dulled by sleep , lighten with pleasure as he sees his dear George . 
He puts his arms round his brother with a boyish laugh . 
`` There he is in flesh and blood , thank God ! '' 
he says , `` I was dreaming of thee but now , George , and that Ward was hearing us our lesson ! 
OF course our young men had had their private talk about home , and all the people and doings there , and each had imparted to the other full particulars of his history since their last meeting . 
How were Harry 's dogs , and little Dempster , and good old Nathan , and the rest of the household ? 
Harry owns that at one period he was very sweet upon Parson Broadbent 's daughter , and lost a great deal of pocket-money at cards , and drank a great quantity of strong-waters with the father , in order to have a pretext for being near the girl . 
`` The birthright is mine , Harry , '' he said , `` but thou art the favourite , and God help me ! 
says Harry . 
cries Harry ; and then told his brother how he had seen the two authors at Tunbridge , and how he had taken off his hat to them . 
But I remembered how my dear old George used to speak of 'em , '' says Harry , with a choke in his voice , `` and that 's why I liked to see them . 
On which Harry broke out not merely into blessings but actual imprecations , indicating his intense love and satisfaction ; and he swore that there never was such a brother in the world as his brother George . 
If George wanted to squander away his father 's money -LRB- she must say that formerly he had not been so eager , and when Harry 's benefit was in question had refused to touch a penny of it ! -RRB- 
-- if he wished to spend it now , why not give it to his own flesh and blood , to poor Harry , who was suddenly deprived of his inheritance , and not to a set of priest-ridden peasants in France ? 
`` Where didst thou learn the art of winning over everybody to thy side , Harry ? '' 
I can not tell thee , Harry , how lonely I felt in that place , amidst the scandal and squabbles : I regretted my prison almost , and found myself more than once wishing for the freedom of thought , and the silent ease of Duquesne . 
`` I should like to see any of the infernal scoundrels who said a word against you , and break their rascally bones , '' roars out Harry , striding up and down the room . 
So , by this and by that -- and being as innocent of the crime imputed to me as you are -- I left home , my dear Harry , with as awful a reputation as ever a young gentleman earned . '' 
George having related his exploits as champion and martyr , of course Harry had to unbosom himself to his brother , and lay before his elder an account of his private affairs . 
He gave up all the family of Castlewood -- my lord , not for getting the better of him at play ; for Harry was a sporting man , and expected to pay when he lost , and receive when he won ; but for refusing to aid the chaplain in his necessity , and dismissing him with such false and heartless pretexts . 
Respecting the Countess and Lady Fanny , Harry spoke in a manner more guarded , but not very favourable . 
He had heard all sorts of stories about them . 
Who told him ? 
Well , he had heard the stories from a person who knew them both very well indeed . 
Here Harry dashed his sleeve across his eyes , with a stamp of his foot ; and said , `` No , brother , I wo n't part with her , not to be made Governor of Virginia to-morrow ; and my dearest old George would never advise me to do so , I know that . '' 
I have made my bed , and must lie on it , '' says Mr. Harry , gloomily . 
Such had been the settlement between our two young worthies , when they first talked over Mr. Harry 's love affair . 
But after George 's conversation with his aunt , and the farther knowledge of his family , which he acquired through the information of that keen old woman of the world , Mr. Warrington , who was naturally of a sceptical turn , began to doubt about Lady maria , as well as regarding her brothers and sister , and looked at Harry 's engagement with increased distrust and alarm . 
Was it for his wealth that Maria wanted Harry ? 
Was it his handsome young person that she longed after ? 
Certainly he could not advise Harry to break his word ; but he might cast about in his mind for some scheme for putting Maria 's affection to the trial ; and his ensuing conduct , which appeared not very amiable , I suppose resulted from this deliberation . 
About noon on the day after Harry had made his re-appearance at White 's , it chanced that all his virtuous kinsfolks partook of breakfast together , even Mr. Will being present , who was to go into waiting in the afternoon . 
Tom Claypool of Norfolk saw 'em both at Ranelagh ; and Jack Morris came out of White 's , where he heard the story from Harry Warrington 's own lips . 
And Will told , at greater length , and with immense exultation at Harry 's discomfiture , the story now buzzed through all London , of George Warrington 's sudden apparition . 
Lord Castlewood was sorry for Harry : Harry was a good brave lad , and his kinsman liked him , as much as certain worldly folks like each other . 
To be sure , he played Harry at cards , and took the advantage of the market upon him ; but why not ? 
The peach which other men would certainly pluck , he might as well devour . 
`` He shall be invited here , and treated with every respect , '' says my lord . 
`` Or will you take him to the stables , and sell him one of your bargains of horse-flesh , Will ? '' 
`` You would have won of Harry Warrington fast enough , if you could ; but you cheat so clumsily at your game that you got paid with a cudgel . 
Harry had been for meekly giving the whip and reins to his brother , and ceding the whole property to him . 
Harry had humbly said . 
George laughingly said he did not know the way , and Harry did ; and that , as for the carriage , he would claim only a half of it , as he had already done with his brother 's wardrobe . 
`` But a bargain is a bargain ; if I share thy coats thou must divide my breeches ' pocket , Harry ; that is but fair dealing ! '' 
Again and again Harry swore there never was such a brother on earth . 
How he rattled his horses over the road ! 
How pleased and proud he was to drive such a brother ! 
Will had no particular fancy to face Harry , my lord was not dressed , Maria had her reasons for being away , at least till her eyes were dried . 
`` We have heard , Harry , '' she says , looking at the latter with a special friendliness , `` of this most extraordinary circumstance . 
My Lord Castlewood said at breakfast that he should wait on you this very day , Mr. Warrington , and cousin Harry , we intend not to love you any the less because you are poor . '' 
`` We shall be able to show now that it is not for your acres that we like you , Harry ! '' 
`` O , cousin , we shall like you for being like Harry ! '' 
They were quite civil to Mr. George : but with Mr. Harry they were fond , they were softly familiar , they were gently kind , they were affectionately reproachful . 
Why had Harry not been for days and days to see them ? 
`` Yes , indeed , '' said Harry . 
`` When we heard that my lord had played with Harry , we did so scold him , '' cried the ladies . 
'T is a poor consolation , but as such Harry must please to take it , and be glad that friends won his money , who wish him well , not strangers , who cared nothing for him , and fleeced him . '' 
`` Harry must bear the penalty of his faults , and pay his debts , like other men . '' 
'T is not like an Englishman , to be sulky because he is beaten , '' says Harry . 
`` I protest you must not be growing so amiable now you are poor , cousin Harry ! '' 
`` Why , mamma , we did not know half his good qualities when he was only Fortunate Youth and Prince of Virginia ! 
Harry was beginning , `` By Jove , he is the best -- '' when the noise of a harpsichord was heard from the upper room . 
The ladies rose , and made way towards the door ; and Harry followed them , blushing very much . 
Your poor Harry hath the best heart in the world ; but I doubt whether his head be very strong . '' 
But he hath the art to make friends wherever he goes , and in spite of all his imprudences most people love him . '' 
`` I do -- we all do , I 'm sure ; as if he were our brother ! '' 
`` He has often described in his letters his welcome at your lordship 's house . 
Harry 's style is not very learned , but his heart is so good , that to read him is better than wit . '' 
`` I may be mistaken , but I fancy his brother possesses a good heart and a good wit , too ! '' 
`` This misfortune of your poor brother -- I mean this piece of good fortune , your sudden re-appearance -- has not quite left Harry without resources ? '' 
`` With nothing but what his mother can leave him , or I , at her death , can spare him . 
My lord , we have cards and jockeys in Virginia , too ; and my poor Harry hath distinguished himself in his own country already , before he came to yours . 
He inherits the family failing for dissipation . '' 
Harry may come back and share all these : there is a nag in the stable for him , a piece of vension on the table , a little ready money to keep his pocket warm , and a coat or two every year . 
This will go on whilst my mother lives , unless , which is far from improbable , he gets into some quarrel with Madam Esmond . 
Then , whilst I live he will have the run of the house and all it contains : then , if I die leaving children , he will be less and less welcome . 
His future , my lord , is a dismal one , unless some strange piece of luck turn up on which we were fools to speculate . 
Henceforth he is doomed to dependence , and I know no worse lot , than to be dependent on a self-willed woman like our mother . 
The means he had to make himself respected at home he hath squandered away here . 
He has flung his patrimony to the dogs , and poverty and subserviency are now his only portion . '' 
Mr. Warrington delivered this speech with considerable spirit and volubility , and his cousin heard him respectfully . 
This was my Lady Maria , who came out of the embrasure of a window , where she and Harry Warrington had been engaged in talk . 
`` Harry has been vaunting my generosity and virtue to her , and I have been playing the selfish elder brother down-stairs ! 
After the introduction a little talk took place , which for a while Lady Maria managed to carry on in easy manner : but though ladies in this matter of social hypocrisy are , I think , far more consummate performers than men , after a sentence or two the poor lady broke out into a sob , and , motioning Harry away with her hand , fairly fled from the room . 
Harry was rushing forward , but stopped -- checked by that sign . 
`` And so we have been coaxing and cuddling in the window , and we part good friends , Harry ? 
cries Harry , lashing the horses . 
cries Harry , turning quite pale . 
There was a minute 's pause after this outbreak , during which Harry did not even look at his brother , but sate , gazing blindly before him , the picture of grief and gloom . 
He was driving so near to a road-post , that the carriage might have been upset but for George 's pulling the rein . 
`` You had better take the reins , sir , '' said Harry , `` I told you you had better take them . '' 
`` Did you ever know me fail you , Harry ? '' 
asked Harry . 
`` Yes , but I would not have believed it , if ten thousand men had told me , '' said Harry . 
And in this frame of mind Harry remained during the rest of the drive . 
Their dinner was served soon after their return to their lodgings , of which Harry scarce ate any , though he drank freely of the wine before him . 
`` That wine is a bad consoler in trouble , Harry , '' his brother remarked . 
`` I have no other , sir , '' said Harry , grimly ; and having drank glass after glass in silence , he presently seized his hat , and left the room . 
He did not return for three hours . 
`` It was shabby to say I would not aid him , and , God help me , it was not true . 
` My dearest , best Harry ! ' 
says Harry . 
He was wild with delight at being free . 
MADAME DE BERNSTEIN was scarcely less pleased than her Virginian nephews at the result of Harry 's final interview with Lady Maria . 
George informed the Baroness of what had passed , in a billet which he sent to her the same evening ; and shortly afterwards her nephew Castlewood , whose visits to his aunt were very rare , came to pay his respects to her , and frankly spoke about the circumstances which had taken place ; for no man knew better than my Lord Castlewood how to be frank upon occasion , and now that the business between Maria and Harry was ended , what need was there of reticence or hypocrisy ? 
The game had been played , and was over : he had no objection now to speak of its various moves , stratagems , finesses . 
`` Confess , now , Eugene , that visit of Maria to Harry at the spunging-house -- that touching giving up of all his presents to her , was a stroke of thy invention ? '' 
`` Suppose she had married Harry , and then Cousin George had made his appearance ? '' 
` Harry Warrington , with half a loaf , might do very well , ' says I , ` but Harry Warrington with no bread , my dear ! 
No bread except at his brother 's side-table . '' 
For six months past , ever since the Castlewoods and Madame de Bernstein had been battling for possession of poor Harry Warrington , these two branches of the Esmond family had remained apart . 
`` So , sir , I hear you have acted like a hard-hearted monster about your poor brother Harry ! '' 
`` I acted but upon your ladyship 's hint , and desired to see whether it was for himself or his reputed money that his kinsfolk wanted to have him , '' replies George , turning rather red . 
Harry has told me all , and that thou hast divided thy little patrimony with him ! '' 
`` And thou wilt divide Virginia with him , too ? '' 
`` The land must go to the eldest born , and Harry would not have it otherwise ; and it may be I shall die , or my mother outlive the pair of us . 
But half of what is mine is his : and he , it must be remembered , only was extravagant because he was mistaken as to his position . '' 
And that evening , when the lads left her , it was to poor Harry she gave the two fingers , and to George the rouged cheek , who blushed for his part , almost as deep as that often-dyed rose , at such a mark of his old kinswoman 's favour . 
Although Harry Warrington was the least envious of men , and did honour to his brother as in all respects his chief , guide , and superior , yet no wonder a certain feeling of humiliation and disappointment oppressed the young man after his deposition from his eminence as Fortunate Youth and heir to boundless Virginian territories . 
Our friends at Kensington might promise and vow that they would love him all the better after his fall ; Harry made a low bow and professed himself very thankful ; but he could not help perceiving , when he went with his brother to the state entertainment with which my Lord Castlewood regaled his new-found kinsman , that George was all in all to his cousins : had all the talk , compliments , and petits soins for himself , whilst of Harry no one took any notice save poor Maria , who followed him with wistful looks , pursued him with eyes conveying dismal reproaches , and , as it were , blamed him because she had left him . 
the eyes seemed to say , '' 't is mighty well of you , Harry , to have accepted the freedom which I gave you ; but I had no intention , sir , that you should be so pleased at being let off . '' 
She gave him up , but yet she did not quite forgive him for taking her at her word . 
She would not have him , and yet she would . 
This is what Harry Warrington , no doubt , felt when he went to Kensington and encountered the melancholy reproachful eyes of his cousin . 
So considering that his period of occupation was over , and Maria 's rooms , if not given up to a new tenant , were , at any rate , to let , Harry did not feel very easy in his cousin 's company , nor she possibly in his . 
He found either that he had nothing to say to her , or that what she had to say to him was rather dull and common-place , and that the red lip of a white-necked pipe of Virginia was decidedly more agreeable to him now than Maria 's softest accents and most melancholy moue . 
When George went to Kensington , then , Harry did not care much about going , and pleaded other engagements . 
At his uncle 's house in Hill Street the poor lad was no better amused , and , indeed , was treated by the virtuous people there with scarce any attention at all . 
He would not have believed such a thing possible , poor simple Harry said . 
Perhaps he thought the door-knocker had a tender heart , and was not made of brass ; not more changed than the head of that knocker was my Lady Warrington 's virtuous face when she passed her nephew . 
cries out Harry , with his usual impetuosity . 
`` Do we make any difference to you , my dear Harry ? '' 
`` In this house you are different from other people , '' replies Harry . 
and he addresses his son from college , who is come to pass an Easter holiday with his parents . 
The lads were specially commanded , then , to present themselves at Court , and , I dare say , their mother would have been very angry had she known that George took Harry 's laced coat on the day when he went to make his bow at Kensington . 
A hundred years ago the king 's drawing-room was open almost every day to his nobility and gentry ; and loyalty -- especially since the war had begun -- could gratify itself a score of times in a month with the august sight of the sovereign . 
To this beloved Sovereign , Mr. Warrington requested his uncle , an assiduous courtier , to present him : and as Mr. Lambert had to go to Court likewise , and thank his Majesty for his promotion , the two gentlemen made the journey to Kensington together , engaging a hackney coach for the purpose , as my Lord Wrotham 's carriage was now wanted by its rightful owner , who had returned to his house in town . 
the Defender of the Faith condescended to ask , pointing towards George Warrington , who stood before his sovereign in a respectful attitude , clad in poor Harry 's best embroidered suit . 
We love you , my dear nephew -- we all love you , we are all proud of you -- '' `` Yes ; but I like Harry best , '' says a little voice . 
He described the eager hospitalities of the father , the pompous flatteries of the mother , and the daughters ' looks of admiration ; the toughness and scarcity of the mutton , and the abominable taste and odour of the cordial ; and we may be sure Mrs. Lambert contrasted Lady Warrington 's recent behaviour to poor Harry with her present conduct to George . 
The Macaronis and fine gentlemen at White 's and Arthur 's continued to show poor Harry Warrington such a very cold shoulder , that he sought their society less and less , and the Ring and the Mall and the gaming-table knew him no more . 
`` You pull a long face , Harry , and complain of the world 's treatment of you , '' the old lady said . 
Thus the old woman who had loved Harry so on his first appearance in England , who had been so eager for his company , and pleased with his artless conversation , was taking the side of the world , and turning against him . 
Instead of the smiles and kisses with which the fickle old creature used once to greet him , she received him with coldness ; she became peevish and patronishing ; she cast jibes and scorn at him before her guests , making his honest face flush with humiliation , and awaking the keenest pangs of grief and amazement in his gentle manly heart . 
Madame de Bernstein 's servants , who used to treat him with such eager respect , scarcely paid him now any attention . 
My lady was often indisposed or engaged when he called on her : her people did not press him to wait ; did not volunteer to ask whether he would stay and dine , as they used in the days when he was the Fortunate Youth and companion of the wealthy and great . 
Harry carried his woes to Mrs. Lambert . 
In a passion of sorrow he told her of his aunt 's cruel behaviour to him . 
He was stricken down and dismayed by the fickleness and heartlessness of the world in its treatment of him . 
`` Well , you are not very lively , Harry , '' says Miss Hetty , who began to command him , and perhaps to ask herself , `` What ? 
`` But there is no reason why I should call Harry 's aunt names before Harry 's face . '' 
Indeed , Harry , it was very wrong of me to make rude remarks about any of your relations . '' 
You see , it was George and Hetty , and Theo and Harry , amongst them now . 
`` You are very clever and very lively , and you may suppose a number of things ; but not that , Hetty , if you please , '' cried Harry , standing up , and looking very resolute and angry . 
Mr. Harry was quite in a flush as he spoke . 
Then she looked up at Harry , and then she did not say a single word . 
Then Harry said , in his simple way , before taking leave , `` I 'm very sorry , and I beg your pardon , Hetty , if I said anything rough , or that seemed unkind ; but I always fight up if anybody says anything against George . '' 
Hetty did not answer a word out of her pale lips , but gave him her hand , and dropped a prim little curtsey . 
It was Theo and Hetty , and Harry and George , among these young people , then ; and I dare say the reason why General Lambert chose to apply the monosyllable `` Bo '' to the mother of his daughters , was as a rebuke to that good woman for the inveterate love of sentiment and propensity to match-making which belonged to her -LRB- and every other woman in the world whose heart is worth a fig -RRB- ; and as a hint that Madam Lambert was a goose if she fancied the two Virginian lads were going to fall in love with the young women of the Lambert house . 
Little Het might have her fancy ; little girls will ; but they get it over : `` and you know , Molly -LRB- which dear , soft-hearted Mrs. Lambert could not deny -RRB- , you fancied somebody else before you fancied me , '' says the General : but Harry had evidently not been smitten by Hetty ; and , now he was superseded , as it were , by having an elder brother over him , and could not even call the coat upon his back his own , Master Harry was no great catch . 
He went among the Lamberts , not at first with the cordiality which Harry felt for these people , and inspired among them : for George was colder in his manner , and more mistrustful of himself and others than his twin-brother : but there was a goodness and friendliness about the family which touched almost all people who came into frequent contact with them ; and George soon learned to love them for their own sake , as well as for their constant regard and kindness to his brother . 
He could not but see and own how sad Harry was , and pity his brother 's depression . 
In his sarcastic way , George would often take himself to task before his brother for coming to life again , and say , `` Dear Harry , I am George the Unlucky , though you have ceased to be Harry the Fortunate . 
`` Precisely my own case , Harry , my dear ! '' 
says Harry , in a low , alarmed voice . 
At which Harry bursts away with an angry exclamation ; and they continue to puff their pipes in friendly union . 
They lived together , each going his own gait ; and not much intercourse , save that of affection , was carried on between them . 
Harry never would venture to meddle with George 's books , and would sit as dumb as a mouse at the lodgings whilst his brother was studying . 
And Lord Wrotham 's family coming to May Fair , and Mr. Lambert , having business which detained him in London , had to change his house , too , and engaged furnished apartments in Soho , not very far off from the dwelling of our young men ; and it was , as we have said , with the Lamberts that Harry , night after night , took refuge . 
He had never enjoyed this amusement in Virginia , and only once or twice at Quebec , when he visited Canada ; and when he came to London , where the two houses were in their full glory , I believe he thought he never could have enough of the delightful entertainment . 
Anything he liked himself , he naturally wished to share amongst his companions . 
No wonder that he was eager to take his friends to the theatre , and we may be sure our young country folks were not unwilling . 
Little Hetty fell to Harry 's arm in this expedition , and the blushing Miss Theo was handed to the box by Mr. George . 
As for Harry , he sat in very deep meditation over the scene ; and when Mrs. Lambert offered him a penny for his thoughts , he said , `` That he thought , Young Norval , Douglas , What-d'ye-call - 'em , the fellow in white satin -- who looked as old as his mother -- was very lucky to be able to distinguish himself so soon . 
I wish I could get a chance , Aunt Lambert , '' says he , drumming on his hat ; on which Mamma sighed , and Theo , smiling , said , `` We must wait , and perhaps the Danes will land . '' 
asks simple Harry . 
She did not behave unkindly -- that was not in Miss Theo 's nature -- but somewhat coldly to Mr. George , on whom she turned her back , addressing remarks , from time to time , to Harry . 
The order of their sitting I have not been able exactly to ascertain ; but , somehow , Miss Theo had a place next to the chickens and Mr. George Warrington , whilst Miss Hetty and a ham divided the attentions of Mr. Harry . 
cries Hetty , from her end of the table , with a sly look at Harry . 
says Harry , gravely ; and wondered if he had said something witty , as all the company laughed so ? 
`` It would require no giant , '' he added , `` to knock over yonder little fellow in the red boots . 
`` She thanked Mr. Warrington , in tones so hollow and tragic , that he started back , and must have upset some of his rappee , for Macbeth sneezed thrice . '' 
goes on George , `` and you saw Harry in grief , you would be seeing a genuine affliction , a real tragedy ; you would grieve too . 
`` Faith , our wits trouble themselves little about him , unless an Oxford gentleman comes to remind us of him ! 
`` I 'll be bound to say it 's as good as any of 'em , '' whispers Harry to his neighbour . 
After such an entertainment as that which Mr. Warrington had given , what could be more natural or proper than a visit from him to his guests , to inquire how they had reached home and rested ? 
No , madam , we remember with advantages , as Shakspeare 's Harry promised his soldiers they should do if they survived Agincourt and that day of St. Crispin . 
`` So Harry has been with them ? 
He often comes , almost every day , '' Theo says , looking up in George 's face . 
He likes us better than the fine folks , who do n't care for him now -- now he is no longer a fine fold himself , '' adds the girl , smiling . 
The name of the chief character is -- '' But at this very moment Mamma and Miss Hetty arrived from their walk ; and Mamma straightway began protesting that she never expected to see Mr. Warrington at all that day -- that is , she thought he might come -- that is , it was very good of him to come , and the play and the supper of yesterday were all charming , except that Theo had a little headache this morning . 
Then they fell to talking about Harry . 
He was very low . 
He must have something to do . 
He was always going to the Military Coffee-house , and perpetually poring over the King of Prussia 's campaigns . 
He , for his part , said he had written home to his mother -- that half his little patrimony , the other half likewise , if wanted , were at Harry 's disposal , for purchasing a commission , or for any other project which might bring him occupation or advancement . 
`` Could we have moved , sir , a month sooner , the fort was certainly ours , and the little army had never been defeated , '' Mr. Warrington said ; in which observation his Royal Highness entirely concurred . 
Mr. Warrington modestly mentioned how he had been in the French colonies in his youth , and had opportunities of acquiring that tongue . 
The Prince -LRB- who had a great urbanity when well pleased , and the finest sense of humour -RRB- condescended to ask who had taught Mr. Warrington the language ; and to express his opinion , that for the pronunciation , the French ladies were by far the best teachers . 
`` If you intend to insult George , at least you had best take care that his brother Harry is out of hearing ! '' 
So I dare say with the two Mohocks ; -- George is the student , and Harry is the fighting man . 
`` Your wish was to help Harry ? 
And when the hero , young Norval , said how he longed to follow to the field some warlike lord , I thought to myself , ` how like my Harry is to him , except that he doth not brag . ' 
Harry is pining now for a red coat , and if we do n't mind , will take the shilling . 
He has the map of Germany for ever under his eyes , and follows the King of Prussia everywhere . 
He is not afraid of men or gods . 
And why did you not send Harry with Mr. Braddock , instead of going yourself ? '' 
`` What must Mr. Warrington 's principles be , when he could reject an offer made him by his Prince ? 
Can he speak the High Dutch ? 
So much the more ought he to have accepted his Royal Highness 's condescension , and made himself useful in the campaign ! 
a Warrington ought to be ready at any moment to have himself cut in pieces for his sovereign ! '' 
Anything was good enough for him , Harry said : he was a younger son , and prepared to rough it ; but George , in a gown , and dining in a mess with three nobody 's sons off dirty pewter platters ! 
Harry never could relish this condescension on his brother 's part , or fancy George in his proper place at any except the high table ; and was sorry that a plan Madam Esmond hinted at in her letters was not feasible -- viz. , that an application should be made to the Master of the Temple , who should be informed that Mr. George Warrington was a gentleman of most noble birth , and of great property in America , and ought only to sit with the very best company in the Hall . 
Rather to Harry 's discomfiture , when he communicated his own and his mother 's ideas to the gentlemen 's new coffee-house friend Mr. Spencer , Mr. Spencer received the proposal with roars of laughter ; and I can not learn , from the Warrington papers , that any application was made to the Master of the Temple on this subject . 
Besides his literary and historical pursuits , which were those he most especially loved , Mr. Warrington studied the laws of his country , attended the courts at Westminster , where he heard a Henley , a Pratt , a Murray , and those other great famous schools of eloquence and patriotism , the two houses of parliament . 
Gradually Mr. Warrington made acquaintance with some of the members of the House and the Bar ; who , when they came to know him , spoke of him as a young gentleman of good parts and good breeding , and in terms so generally complimentary , that his good uncle 's heart relented towards him , and Dora and Flora began once more to smile upon him . 
And Mr. Lambert , pointing to the lion on the top of the Earl of Northumberland 's house at Charing Cross , says : -- `` Harry Warrington ! 
`` Because he is as brave as one , '' says Harry . 
INDEED , if Harry Warrington had a passion for military pursuits and studies , there was enough of war stirring in Europe , and enough talk in all societies which he frequented in London , to excite and inflame him . 
Though our own gracious Prince of the house of Hanover had been beaten , the Protestant Hero , the King of Prussia , was filling the world with his glory , and winning those astonishing victories in which I deem it fortunate on my own account that my poor Harry took no part ; for then his veracious biographer would have had to narrate battles the description whereof has been undertaken by another pen . 
I am glad , I say , that Harry Warrington was not at Rossbach on that famous Gunpowder Fête-day , on the 5th of November , in the year 1757 ; nor at that tremendous slaughtering-match of Leuthen , which the Prussian king played a month afterwards ; for these prodigious actions will presently be narrated in other volumes which I and all the world are eager to behold . 
it is a mercy for both of us that Harry Warrington did not follow the King of the Borussians , as he was minded to do , for then I should have had to describe battles which Carlyle is going to paint ; and I do n't wish you should make odious comparisons between me and that master . 
Harry Warrington not only did not join the King of the Borussians , but he pined and chafed at not going . 
He led a sulky useless life , that is the fact . 
He dangled about the military coffee-houses . 
He did not care for reading anything save a newspaper . 
His turn was not literary . 
He even thought novels were stupid ; and , as for the ladies crying their eyes out over Mr. Richardson , he could not imagine how they could be moved by any such nonsense . 
Those soft-hearted women , the two elder ladies of the Lambert family , with whom he mainly consorted , had an untiring pity and kindness for Harry , such as women only -- and only a few of those -- can give . 
Now Theo and her mother were full of pity for Harry ; but Hetty 's heart was rather hard and seemingly savage towards him . 
She chafed that his position was not more glorious ; she was angry that he was still dependent and idle . 
The whole world was in arms , and could he not carry a musket ? 
It was harvest time , and hundreds of thousands of reapers were out with their flashing sickles ; could he not use his , and cut down his sheaf or two of glory ? 
`` Why , I daresay Mr. Wolfe , or Harry , or Mr. George , are very brave . '' 
But if it was Harry who knocked , she remained in her own apartment with her work or her books , sending her sister to receive the young gentleman , or her brothers when the elder was at home from college , or Doctor Crusius from the Chartreux gave the younger leave to go home . 
And what good eyes Theo must have had -- and often in the evening , too -- to note the difference between Harry 's yellow hair and George 's dark locks , -- and between their figures , though they were so like that people continually were mistaking one for the other brother . 
I say it was a most curious thing -LRB- though the girls would have gone to the rack rather than own any collusion -RRB- , that when Harry called , Hetty appeared ; when George arrived , Theo somehow came ; and so , according to the usual dispensation , it was Miss Lambert , junior , who now arrived to entertain the younger Virginian . 
`` I should n't be at the head of the class , '' Harry says , humbly . 
`` His account of his school , '' Harry answered simply , `` makes me see that I have been idle when I ought to have worked , and that I have not a genius for books , and for what am I good ? 
Harry beheld her with a tender admiration . 
`` I think , '' says he , `` I would hardly like to see a musket on that little shoulder , nor a wound on that pretty face , Hetty . '' 
says Harry dutifully . 
says downright Harry , with a look of inquiry . 
Harry laughed , a very gentle , kind laugh , as he looked at her . 
He felt that he would not like much to hit such a tender little warrior as that . 
`` Why , '' says he , holding a finger out , `` I think here is a finger nigh as big as your arm . 
`` And , excited by this flight of his imagination , Harry fell to walking up and down the room , too , chafing at the idea of any rogue of a Frenchman daring to be rude to Miss Hester Lambert . 
Miss Hetty was no more bold , in reality , than Madam Erminia , whose speech she had been reading out of the book , and about whom Mr. Harry Warrington never heard one single word . 
He may have been in the room when brother George was reading his poetry out to the ladies , but his thoughts were busy with his own affairs , and he was entirely bewildered with your Clotildas and Erminias , and giants , and enchanters , and nonsense . 
If Mr. Harry Warrington falls in love with a woman who is like Miss Lambert in disposition , and if he marries her -- without being conjurors , I think we may all see what the end will be . 
So , whilst Hetty was firing her little sarcasms into Harry , he for a while scarcely felt that they were stinging him , and let her shoot on without so much as taking the trouble to shake the little arrows out of his hide . 
Did she mean by her sneers and inuendos to rouse him into action ? 
He was too magnanimous to understand such small hints . 
Did she mean to shame him by saying that she , a weak woman , would don the casque and breast-plate ? 
Nobody wants you to throw anybody out of window , Harry ! 
`` I never could understand why a man should be frightened at a ghost , '' says Harry . 
Our nurses tell a pack of lies about 'em , '' says Harry , gravely . 
`` George was a little frightened ; but then he 's -- '' Here he paused . 
Thank you , Harry ! '' 
What shall I say to her , when she says , ` Harry , where 's your patrimony ? ' 
Ill as he was , and in love as we knew him to be , he did n't stop to be nursed by his mother , Harry , or to dawdle with his sweetheart . 
`` I wish he would take me with him , and that a ball would knock me on the head and finish me , '' groaned Harry . 
`` You do n't seem to think that of much value , Hetty , '' remarked Harry , sadly . 
Now , for the first time , Harry began to wince at the words of his young lecturer . 
`` No negro on our estate is more a slave than I am , Hetty , '' he said , turning very red as he addressed her ; `` but then , Miss Lambert , we do n't reproach the poor fellow for not being free . 
`` I did n't say angry , '' said Harry , gravely . 
`` Harry is making his old complaint of having nothing to do . 
`` Will you stay and have ours , Harry ? 
Harry agreed to stay , after a few faint negations . 
`` Mamma asked Harry on purpose to enliven us , and I am talking until he begins , -- just like the fiddles at the playhouse , you know , Hetty ! 
Pray begin , Harry ! '' 
`` I merely asked Harry to entertain us . 
`` I 'm not that on most days -- and , Heaven knows , on this day less than most , '' says poor Harry . 
And in this naughty way the young woman went on for the rest of the evening , and was complimented by her mother and sister when poor Harry took his leave . 
He was not ready of wit , and could not fling back the taunts which Hetty cast against him . 
Nay , had he been able to retort , he would have been silent . 
He was too generous to engage in that small war , and chose to take all Hester 's sarcasms without an attempt to parry or evade them . 
I suppose she wets her pillow with tears , and should not mind about her sobbing : unless it kept her sister awake ; unless she was unwell the next day , and the doctor had to be fetched ; unless the whole family is to be put to discomfort ; mother to choke over her dinner in flurry and indignation ; father to eat his roast beef in silence and with bitter sauce ; everybody to look at the door each time it opens , with a vague hope that Harry is coming in . 
If Harry does not come , why at least does not George come ? 
What do you think of Harry playing truant ? ' 
''' I fear there is no more rest for Hetty on this night than on the previous one , when she had behaved so mutinously to poor Harry Warrington . 
Her ladyship 's health had been somewhat ailing of late , so that even her favourite routs were denied her , and she was sitting over a quiet game of écarté , with a divine of whom our last news were from a lock-up house hard by that in which Harry Warrington had been himself confined . 
George , at Harry 's request , had paid the little debt under which Mr. Sampson had suffered temporarily . 
Getting no reply but Yes and No to his brief speeches , poor Harry sat awhile on a couch opposite his aunt , who shrugged her shoulders , had her back to her nephew , and continued her game with the Chaplain . 
Harry got up from his place . 
`` I am going on a journey : I am come to bid you good-bye , aunt , '' he said , in a very tragical voice . 
No , Harry said : he was not going to America yet : he was going to the Isle of Wight for the present . 
`` I may n't come back for some time , aunt , '' he groaned out . 
And she gaily bade him farewell . 
He looked for a moment piteously at her , and was gone . 
Mr. Warrington , who is a cup too low , the young Guardsmen say , walks away when they are not steady enough to be able to follow him , thinks over the matter on his way to his lodgings , and lies thinking of it all through the night . 
`` I want a little money out of the drawer , '' says Harry , looking at his brother . 
I am sick and ill , '' says Harry . 
`` She do n't care a penny piece about me , nor I for her neither , '' says Harry , nodding his head . 
`` But I am ill , and a little country air will do me good , '' and he mentions how he thinks of going to visit Mr. Webb in the Isle of Wight , and how a Portsmouth coach starts from Holborn . 
`` There 's the till , Harry , '' says George , pointing from his bed . 
Harry says . 
`` Have a good time , Harry ! '' 
and down goes George 's head on the pillow again , and he takes his pencil and note-book from under his bolster , and falls to polishing his verses , as Harry , with his cloak over his shoulder and a little valise in his hand , walks to the inn in Holborn whence the Portsmouth Machine starts . 
Perhaps Mr. Warrington might have risen to a peerage and the woolsack , had he studied very long and assiduously , -- had he been a dexterous courtier , and a favourite of attornies : had he been other than he was , in a word . 
He behaved to Themis with a very decent respect and attention ; but he loved letters more than law always ; and the black letter of Chaucer was infinitely more agreeable to him than the Gothic pages of Hale and Coke . 
Mr. Spencer , his new acquaintance , of the Temple , gave a breakfast at his chambers in Fig Tree Court , when Mr. Warrington read part of his play , and the gentlemen present pronounced that it had uncommon merit . 
A favourite book of his grandfather had been the life of old George Frundsberg of Mindelheim , a colonel of foot-folk in the Imperial service at Pavia fight , and during the wars of the Constable Bourbon : and one of Frundsberg 's military companions was a certain Carpzow , or Carpezan , whom our friend selected as his tragedy hero . 
Terrible as he might be in war , Carpezan was shaken at first by the Abbess 's brisk opening charge of words ; and , conqueror as he was , seemed at first to be conquered by his actual prisoner . 
She led him such a life -- I am narrating as it were the Warrington manuscript , which is too long to print in entire -- taunting him with his low birth , his vulgar companions , whom the old soldier loved to see about him , and so forth -- that there were times when he rather wished that he had never rescued this lovely , quarrelsome , wayward vixen from the oubliette out of which he fished her . 
When Mr. Warrington has finished reading his tragedy , he turns round to Mr. Johnson , modestly , and asks , -- `` What say you , sir ? 
`` I think Harry would look very well in your figure of a Prince , '' says the General . 
What news of your brother Harry ? '' 
George , who has been thinking about theatrical triumphs ; about monumentum are perennius ; about lilacs ; about love whispered and tenderly accepted , remembers that he has a letter from Harry in his pocket , and gaily produces it . 
THE trusty Gumbo could not console himself for the departure of his beloved master : at least , to judge from his tears and howls on first hearing the news of Mr. Harry 's enlistment , you would have thought the negro 's heart must break at the separation . 
The Lambert servants wept freely in his company : the maids kindly considered him not only as Mr. Harry 's man , but their brother . 
Meanwhile , we do n't intend to harrow anybody 's kind feelings any longer , but may as well state that Harry is , for the present , as safe as any officer of the Life Guards at Regent 's Park Barracks . 
Now , Harry Warrington 's first feat of war was in this wise . 
He and about 13,000 other fighting men embarked in various ships and transports on the 1st of June , from the Isle of Wight , and at daybreak on the 5th the fleet stood in to the Bay of Cancale in Brittany . 
Exactly four weeks after his departure from England , Mr. Warrington found himself at Portsmouth again , and addressed a letter to his brother George , with which the latter ran off to Dean Street so soon as ever he received it . 
`` But not killed any -- he says so , as you shall hear . 
He writes : -- `` Dearest Brother , `` I think you will be glad to hear that I am returned , without any commission as yet ; without any wounds or glory ; but , at any rate , alive and harty . 
We hope Miss Hetty 's qualms of conscience were allayed by Harry 's announcement that his expedition was over , and that he had so far taken no hurt . 
They found Harry vastly improved in spirits and health from the excitement produced by the little campaign , quite eager and pleased to learn his new military duties , active , cheerful , and healthy , and altogether a different person from the listless moping lad who had dawdled in London coffee-houses and Mrs. Lambert 's drawing-room . 
Away sails the fleet , Harry , in high health and spirits , waving his hat to his friends as they cheer from the shore . 
He must and will have his commission before long . 
As for Hetty and Mrs. Lambert , I believe they are of opinion that Harry took every one of the guns himself , dragging them out of the batteries , and destroying the artillerymen . 
He has immensely risen in the general estimation in the last few days . 
Madame de Berustein has asked about him . 
I say Nolo , not Malo : content , for my part , if Harry has returned from one expedition and t ` other with a whole skin . 
And have I ever said he was so much as bruised ? 
`` I can tell you , '' said Harry , `` we all had to run for it ; and when our line broke , it was he who could get to the boats who was most lucky . 
`` It is of the poor lady I am thinking , '' says Miss Hetty -LRB- to whom haply our volunteer is telling his story -RRB- ; `` and the King . 
`` I have no doubt his Majesty will be in a deep state of grief , '' says Papa , wagging his head . 
`` But if the King sent Harry -- I mean Sir John Armytage -- actually to the war in which he lost his life , ought n't his Majesty to repent very much ? '' 
`` If Harry had fallen , no doubt the Court would have gone into mourning : as it is , gentlemen and ladies were in coloured clothes yesterday , '' remarks the General . 
When I run away before Frenchmen I 'm ashamed -- I ca n't help it , though I done it , '' says Harry . 
`` It do n't seem to me right somehow that Englishmen should have to do it , '' he added , gravely . 
`` 'T is a bad business , '' continued Harry , gravely ; `` but 't is lucky 't was no worse . 
`` If Sparta is anywhere Virginia way , I reckon we have , '' remarks Mr. Harry . 
he adds pensively . 
Hetty looks at him , and thinks of him only as he was the other day , tottering through the water towards the boats , his comrade bleeding on his shoulder , the enemy in pursuit , the shot flying round . 
And it was she who drove him into the danger ! 
Her words provoked him . 
He never rebukes her now he is returned . 
Except when asked , he scarcely speaks about his adventures at all . 
He is very grave and courteous with Hetty ; with the rest of the family especially frank and tender . 
But those taunts of hers wounded him . 
his looks and demeanor seem to say , `` thou shouldst not have been lifted against me ! 
Harry 's wrong , and his magnanimous endurance of it , served him to regain in Miss Hetty 's esteem that place which he had lost during the previous months ' inglorious idleness . 
The respect which the fair pay to the brave she gave him . 
She was no longer pert in her answers , or sarcastic in her observations regarding his conduct . 
And all the world seemed to change towards Harry , as he towards the world . 
He was no longer sulky and indolent : he no more desponded about himself , or defied his neighbours . 
The colonel of his regiment reported his behaviour as exemplary , and recommended him for one of the commissions vacated by the casualties during the expedition . 
Unlucky as its termination was , it at least was fortunate to him . 
His brother volunteers , when they came back to St. James 's Street , reported highly of his behaviour . 
My Lord Howe was heard to speak in special praise of Mr. Warrington , and so he had a handsome share of the fashion and favour which the town now bestowed on the volunteers . 
Harry was restored to full favour amongst them . 
Their hands were held out eagerly to him again . 
Even his relations congratulated him ; and there came a letter from Castlewood , whither Aunt Bernstein had by this time betaken herself , containing praises of his valour , and a pretty little bank-bill , as a token of his affectionate aunt 's approbation . 
And besides this , there came to him a private letter through the post -- not very well spelt , but in a handwriting which Harry smiled to see again , in which his affectionate cousin , Maria Esmond , told him she always loved to hear his praises -LRB- which were in everybody 's mouth now -RRB- , and sympathised in his good or evil fortune ; and that , whatever occurred to him , she begged to keep a little place in his heart . 
Indeed , the Chaplain wrote himself , presently , a letter full of enthusiasm , in which he saluted Mr. Harry as his friend , his benefactor , his glorious hero . 
Now Harry Warrington had been floundering for ever so long a time past , and out of his proper element . 
As soon as he found it , health , strength , spirits , energy , returned to him , and with the tap of the epaulet on his shoulder he sprang up an altered being . 
He delighted in his new profession ; he engaged in all its details , and mastered them with eager quickness . 
Had I the skill of my friend Lorrequer , I would follow the other Harry into camp , and see him on the march , at the mess , on the parade-ground ; I would have many a carouse with him and his companions ; I would cheerfully live with him under the tents ; I would knowingly explain all the manoeuvres of war , and all the details of the life military . 
As it is , the reader must please , out of his experience and imagination , to fill in the colours of the picture of which I can give but meagre hints and outlines , and , above all , fancy Mr. Harry Warrington in his new red coat and yellow facings , very happy to bear the King 's colours , and pleased to learn and perform all the duties of his new profession . 
As each young man delighted in the excellence of the other , and cordially recognised his brother 's superior qualities , George , we may be sure , was proud of Harry 's success , and rejoiced in his returning good fortune . 
He wrote an affectionate letter to his mother in Virginia , recounting all the praises which he had heard of Harry , and which his brother 's modesty , George knew , would never allow him to repeat . 
He described how Harry had won his own first step in the army , and how he , George , would ask his mother leave to share with her the expense of purchasing a higher rank for him . 
Nothing , said George , would give him a greater delight , than to be able to help his brother , and the more so , as , by his sudden return into life as it were , he had deprived Harry of an inheritance which he had legitimately considered as his own . 
Labouring under that misconception Harry had indulged in greater expenses than he ever would have thought of incurring as a younger brother ; and George thought it was but fair , and , as it were , as a thank-offering for his own deliverance , that he should contribute liberally to any scheme for his brother 's advantage . 
And now , having concluded his statement respecting Harry 's affairs , George took occasion to speak of his own , and addressed his honoured mother on a point which very deeply concerned himself . 
In a word , Mr. Warrington described the young lady as a model of perfection , and expressed his firm belief that the happiness or misery of his own future life depended upon possessing or losing her . 
Whilst Harry 's love of battle has led him to smell powder -- to rush upon reluctantes dracones , and to carry wounded comrades out of fire , George has been pursuing an amusement much more peaceful and delightful to him ; penning sonnets to his mistress 's eye-brow , mayhap ; pacing in the darkness under her window , and watching the little lamp which shone upon her in her chamber ; finding all sorts of pretexts for sending little notes which do n't seem to require little answers , but get them ; culling bits out of his favourite poets , and flowers out of Covent Garden for somebody 's special adornment and pleasure ; walking to St. James 's Church , singing very likely out of the same Prayer-book , and never hearing one word of the sermon , so much do other thoughts engross him ; being prodigiously affectionate to all Miss Hetty 's relations -- to her little brother and sister at school ; to the elder at college ; to Miss Hetty with whom he engages in gay passages of wit ; and , to Mamma , who is half in love with him herself , Martin Lambert says ; for if fathers are sometimes sulky at the appearance of the destined son-in-law , is it not a fact that mothers become sentimental and , as it were , love their own loves over again ? 
In reply to her son , Madam Esmond wrote back that she was pleased with the fraternal love George exhibited ; that it was indeed but right in some measure to compensate Harry , whose expectations had led him to adopt a more costly mode of life than he would have entered on had he known he was only a younger son . 
And with respect to purchasing his promotion , she would gladly halve the expense with Harry 's elder brother , being thankful to think his own gallantry had won him his first step . 
She had not paid as yet , and might not to-day or to-morrow , but eventually , of course , she would : and Mr. Warrington never thought of troubling his friends about these calculations , or discussing with them his mother 's domestic affairs . 
They , on their side , took for granted that he was in a state of competence and case , and , without being mercenary folks , Mr. and Mrs. Lambert were no doubt pleased to see an attachment growing up between their daughter and a young gentleman of such good principles , talents , family , and expectations . 
What I mean to say is , that the young lady 's family were perfectly satisfied with the state of affairs between her and Mr. Warrington ; and though he had not as yet asked the decisive question , everybody else knew what the answer would be when it came . 
JAMES WOLFE , Harry 's new Colonel , came back from America a few weeks after our Virginian had joined his regiment . 
Harry went with quite unfeigned respect and cordiality to pay his duty to his new Commander , on whom the eyes of the world began to be turned now , -- the common opinion being that he was likely to become a great General . 
Harry , when he was away from his duty , was never tired of hearing Mr. Wolfe 's details of the military operations of the last year , about which Wolfe talked very freely and openly . 
` If it be a sin to covet honour , ' he used to say with Harry the Fifth -LRB- he was passionately fond of plays and poetry -RRB- , ` I am the most offending soul alive . ' 
Surely on his last day he had a feast which was enough to satisfy the greediest appetite for glory . 
He hungered after it . 
He seemed to me not merely like a soldier going resolutely to do his duty , but rather like a knight in quest of dragons and giants . 
As Mr. Lambert 's official duties detained him in London , his family remained contentedly with him , and I suppose Mr. Warrington was so satisfied with the rural quiet of Southampton Row and the beautiful flowers and trees of Bedford Gardens , that he did not care to quit London for any long period . 
He made his pilgrimage to Castlewood , and passed a few days there , occupying the chamber of which he had often heard his grandfather talk , and which Colonel Esmond had occupied as a boy : and he was received kindly enough by such members of the family as happened to be at home . 
On the night of the production of the piece , Mr. Warrington gave an elegant entertainment to his friends at the Bedford Head , in Covent Garden , whence they adjourned in a body to the theatre ; leaving only one or two with our young author , who remained at the Coffee House , where friends from time to time came to him with an account of the performance . 
Harry , during the little trouble in the fourth act , was deadly pale -- whiter , Mrs. Lambert said , than Barry , with all his chalk . 
But if Briareus could have clapped hands , he could scarcely have made more noise than Harry at the end of the piece . 
Of his intentions respecting Harry , Madam Esmond fully approved . 
Their properties lay close together , and could Harry find in the young lady those qualities of person and mind suitable for a companion for life , at least she would have the satisfaction of seeing both her children near her in her declining years . 
George now had to explain , with some hesitation , that what with paying bills for his mother , and Harry 's commission and debts , and his own ransom -- George 's patrimony proper was well nigh spent . 
But when he heard that George was entirely dependent on his mother , and that his own small patrimony was dissipated , as Harry 's had been before , Sir Miles 's indignation at his nephew 's imprudence knew no bounds ; he could not find words to express his horror and anger at the want of principle exhibited by both these unhappy young men : he thought it his duty to speak his mind about them , and wrote his opinion to his sister Esmond in Virginia . 
Towards Harry his uncle somewhat unbent ; Harry had done his duty in the campaign , and was mentioned with praise in high quarters . 
He had sown his wild oats , -- he at least was endeavouring to amend ; but George was a young prodigal , fast careering to ruin , and his name was only mentioned in the family with a groan . 
In spite of his behaviour over the cards , Lord Castlewood , George always maintained , had a liking for our Virginians , and George was pleased enough to be in his company . 
She was charmed to hear of Harry 's valour in the campaign ; she was delighted with George 's success at the theatre ; she was for ever going to the play , and had all the favourite passages of Carpezan by heart . 
Harry happened to come to London that evening , and slept at his accustomed quarters . 
asks Harry , as George peruses his letter with a queer expression of face . 
One evening after Christmas , the two gentlemen , with a few more friends , were met round General Lambert 's supper-table , and among the company was Harry 's new Colonel of the 67th , Major-General Wolfe . 
`` Ah , sir , '' says Harry , `` I wish your regiment was going with you , and that I might pay another visit to my old friends at Quebec . '' 
What , had Harry been there ? 
He described his visit to the place five years before , and knew the city , and the neighbourhood , well . 
He lays a number of bits of biscuit on the table before him , and makes a couple of rivulets of punch on each side . 
`` This fork is the Isle d'Orleans , '' says he , `` with the north and south branches of St. Lawrence on each side . 
`` What , can you speak French too , Harry ? '' 
`` Mr. Harry , '' he said , `` if you have had enough of fine folks , and White 's , and horse-racing -- '' `` O , sir ! '' 
It was the hurrah which Harry Warrington gave when he leaped up at hearing the General 's invitation . 
General Lambert had to be away upon his business early next morning , before seeing any of his family ; nor had he mentioned a word of Harry 's outbreak on the previous evening . 
But when he rejoined his folks at dinner , a look at Miss Hetty 's face informed the worthy gentleman that she knew what had passed on the night previous , and what was about to happen to the young Virginian . 
`` I have breakfasted , '' says he , `` with James Wolfe this morning , and our friend Harry was of the party . 
When he and the other guests were gone , I remained and talked with James about the great expedition on which he is going to sail . 
OUR tender hearts are averse to all ideas and descriptions of parting ; and I shall therefore asy nothing of Harry Warrington 's feelings at taking leave of his brother and friends . 
He has a pang of sadness , as he looks in at the lodgings to the little room which Harry used to occupy , and sees his half-burned papers still in the grate . 
In a few minutes he is on his way to Dean Street again , and whispering by the fitful firelight in the ear of the clinging sweetheart . 
at his return . 
It was not until my poor Harry left home that he fell among thieves . 
I mean thieves en grand , such as waylaid him and stripped him on English high-roads . 
GEORGE WARRINGTON has mentioned in the letter just quoted , that in spite of my Lord Castlewood 's previous play transactions with Harry , my lord and George remained friends , and met on terms of good kinsmanship . 
As for George , he was engaged already ; as for poor Hetty 's flame , Harry , he was gone on service , for which circumstance Hetty 's mother was not very sorry perhaps . 
Well , Harry being away , and Theo and George irrevocably engaged , so that there was no possibility of bringing Madam Esmond 's little plans to bear , why should not Mrs. Lambert have plans of her own ; and if a rich , handsome , beautiful little wife should fall in his way , why should not Jack Lambert from Oxford have her ? 
At any rate , Mrs. Lambert says beauty and riches are no objection ; at any rate , Madam Esmond desired that this family should be hospitably entertained , and it was not her fault that Harry was gone away to Canada . 
Mr. Drabshaw , a young Quaker gentleman , and nephew of Mr. Trail , Madam Esmond 's Bristol agent , was also in constant attendance upon the young lady , and in dreadful alarm and suspicion when Mr. Warrington first made his appearance . 
Wishing to do honour to his mother 's neighbours , Mr. Warrington invited them to an entertainment at his own apartments ; and who should so naturally meet them as his friends from Soho ? 
WE must now , however , and before we proceed with the history of Miss Lydia and her doings , perform the duty of explaining that sentence in Mr. Warrington 's letter to his brother which refers to Lady Maria Esmond , and which , to some simple readers , may be still mysterious . 
I knew , for instance , that Maria Esmond had lost her heart ever so many times before Harry Warrington found it ; but I liked to fancy that he was going to keep it ; that , bewailing mischance and times out of joint , she would yet have preserved her love , and fondled it in decorous celibacy . 
So , if Maria Esmond has found a successor for Harry Warrington , and set up a new sultan in the precious empire of her heart , what , after all , could you expect from her ? 
He uttered all sorts of waggeries , did the merry General , upon the subject of this marriage ; upon George 's share in bringing it about ; upon Harry 's jealousy when he should hear of it . 
He vowed it was cruel that Cousin Hagan had not selected George as groomsman ; that the first child should be called Carpezan or Sybilla , after the Tragedy , and so forth . 
The baby might be christened in Macbeth 's cauldron : and Harry and harlequin ought certainly to be godfathers . 
So will my Harry , I know , return from his battle . 
says the heedless little thing , as we sat over our dessert , ` 't is lucky for you , Mr. Esmond , that Captain Harry is not here . ' 
asks he , with one of his usual conversational ornaments . 
He must have offended some fairy in his youth , who has caused him to drop curses for ever out of his mouth , as she did the girl to spit out toads and serpents . 
Wherever my dearest Harry reads it , I know there will be a heart full of love for `` His loving brother , `` G. E. W. '' N6310112 THE little quarrel between George and his cousin caused the former to discontinue his visits to Bloomsbury in a great measure ; for Mr. Will was more than ever assiduous in his attentions ; and , now that both were bound over to peace , so outrageous in his behaviour , that George found the greatest difficulty in keeping his hands from his cousin . 
`` I was giving my opinion to Mr. Warrington upon laughter , and upon his laughter in particular , '' says Jack Lambert , in a fume . 
Gumbo in attendance , made his appearance at Castlewood a few days before the ceremony . 
`` He must have been a little touched here , '' my lord said , tapping his own tall , placid forehead . 
`` I do you the justice to think , cousin , '' says Mr. Warrington to his lordship , `` that you would not give up any advantage for any friend in the world . '' 
asks my lord , with a French shrug of his shoulders , and a pinch out of his box . 
Once , in their walks in the fields , his lordship happening to wear a fine scarlet coat , a cow ran towards him ; and the ordinarily languid nobleman sprang over a style with the agility of a schoolboy . 
As for Mr. Warrington , who very likely loved to be king of his company -LRB- as some people do -RRB- , he could not help liking this kinsman of his , so witty , graceful , polished , high-placed in the world -- so utterly his inferior . 
He was not the only grumbler respecting that marriage , as Mr. Warrington knew : he heard , then and afterwards , no end of abuse of my lady and her grandfather . 
`` Why , '' says Mr. Warrington -LRB- when Will expatiated on these matters with him -RRB- , `` if the girl is such a she-devil as you describe her , you are all the better for losing her . 
cries Mr. Warrington , who loved this grave way of dealing with his noble kinsman , and used to watch , with a droll interest , the other choking his curses , grinding his teeth because afraid to bite , and smothering his cowardly anger . 
But Mr. Warrington explained that he was speaking of a Captain of the Guard of the King of Egypt , whose wife had persecuted one Joseph for not returning her affection for him . 
She feared that his life about the Court and town had injured those high principles which all the Esmonds are known to be born with ; that Mr. Will 's words were not altogether to be trusted ; that a loose life and pecuniary difficulties had made him mercenary , blunted his honour , perhaps even impaired the high chivalrous courage `` which we Esmonds , cousin , '' the little lady said , tossing her head , `` which we Esmonds most always possess -- leastways , you and me , and my lord , and my cousin Harry have it , I know ! '' 
Having been bred a Dissenter , and not being over familiar with the Established Church service , Mr. Warrington remarked that she made a blunder or two during the office -LRB- not knowing , for example , when she was to turn her face towards the east , a custom not adopted , I believe , in other Reforming churches besides the English -RRB- ; but between Warrington 's first bridal visit to Castlewood and his second , my lady had got to be quite perfect in that part of her duty , and sailed into chapel on her cousin 's arm , her two footmen bearing her ladyship 's great prayer-book behind her , as demurely as that delightful old devotee with her lacquey , in Mr. Hogarth 's famous picture of `` Morning , '' and as if my lady Lydia had been accustomed to have a chaplain all her life . 
When Mr. Warrington returned to London after his first nuptial visit , she brought him a little present for her young friends in Dean Street , as she called them -LRB- Theo being older , and Hetty scarce younger than herself -RRB- , and sent a trinket to one and a book to the other -- G. Warrington always vowing that Theo 's present was a doll , while Hetty 's share was a nursery-book with words of one syllable . 
`` You 'll write and tell Harry that we are all very much pleased with him . 
Harry ! 
The ties of relationship binding Madame de Bernstein strongly to her nephew , Mr. Warrington hoped that she would be disposed to be equally affectionate to her niece ; and spoke of his visit to Mr. Hagan and his wife , for whom he entreated her aunt 's favour . 
Having risen mightily in her favour , I began to fall again : and once more Harry was the favourite , and his brother , Heaven knows , not jealous . 
He was now our family hero . 
He wrote us brief letters from the seat of war , where he was engaged , Madame Bernstein caring little at first about the letters or the writer , for they were simple , and the facts he narrated not over interesting . 
That battle of Montmorenci -LRB- which my brother Harry and I have fought again many a time over our wine -RRB- formed the dismal burthen of the first despatch from Mr. Wolfe which reached England , and plunged us all in gloom . 
In our fond little circle I know 't was a distinction to be Harry 's brother . 
We should not in the least wonder but that he , from his previous knowledge of the place , had found the way up the heights which the British army took , and pointed it out to his General . 
His promotion would follow as a matter of course . 
Why , even our uncle Warrington wrote letters to bless Heaven and congratulate me and himself upon the share Harry had had in the glorious achievement . 
Our Harry 's promotion was insured after his share in the famous battle , and our aunt announced her intention of purchasing a company for him . 
`` Why , I declare , George , you are more stupid than Harry ! '' 
Who does not believe his first passion eternal ? 
In the course of one year 's constant intimacy I had come to regard Lambert with a reverence and affection which I had never before felt for any mortal man except my dearest Harry . 
That his face should be turned from me in anger was as if the sun had gone out of my sphere , and all was dark around me . 
Mr. Warrington completed his great tragedy of Pocahontas , which was not only accepted by Mr. Garrick this time -LRB- his friend Dr. Johnson having spoken not unfavourably of the work -RRB- , but my friend and cousin , Hagan , was engaged by the manager to perform the part of the hero , Captain Smith . 
What does she do , when my marriage with your ladyship yonder was supposed to be broken off , but attempt to play off on me those arts which she had tried on my poor Harry with such signal ill-success , and which failed with me likewise ! 
We heard in successive brief letters how our dear Harry continued with the army , as Mr. General Amherst 's aide-de-camp , after the death of his own glorious general . 
My -LRB- and Harry 's -RRB- old friend Parson Sampson , who had been in and out of gaol I do n't know how many times of late years , and retained an ever-enduring hatred for the Esmonds of Castlewood , and as lasting a regard for me and my brother , was occupying poor Hal 's vacant bed at my lodgings at this time -LRB- being , in truth , hunted out of his own by the bailiffs -RRB- . 
Now I need not say in what perturbation of mind Mr. Warrington went home in the evening to his lodgings , after the discussion with the ladies of the above news . 
The former blubbered so , that Mr. Warrington was quite touched by his fidelity , and gave him a crown piece to go to supper with the poor girl , who turned out to be his sweetheart . 
I was ready to mingle with him tear for tear . 
`` I am not to speak to my cousin , '' says Miles , `` but telling you to send my love to Harry is not speaking to you . 
Tell us about your household affairs , madam , and whether His Excellency your father is well , and whether you made the pudden and the butter sauce . 
`` My Dear Sir `` -LRB- said the letter -RRB- , -- `` I have seen his Lordship , and conveyed to him Mr. Warrington 's request that he would honour the tragedy of Pocahontas by his presence . 
His Lordship is a patron of the drama , and a magnificent friend of all the liberal arts ; but he desires me to say that he can not think of attending himself , much less of asking his Gracious Master to witness the performance of a play , a principal part in which is given to an actor who has made a clandestine marriage with a daughter of one of his Majesty 's nobility . 
THE English public , not being so well acquainted with the history of Pocahontas as we of Virginia , who still love the memory of that simple and kindly creature , Mr. Warrington , at the suggestion of his friends , made a little ballad about this Indian princess , which was printed in the magazines a few days before the appearance of the tragedy . 
`` Not Regulus , my dear Madam , could step into his barrel more coolly , '' Sampson said to my wife . 
Warrington , Esquire , and Theodosia his wife -- to call out mea culpa , and put on a demure air , and , sitting in my comfortable easy chair here , profess to be in a white sheet and on the stool of repentance , offering myself up as a warning to imprudent and hot-headed youth . 
On the pacification of Canada , my dear Harry asked for leave of absence , and dutifully paid a visit to Virginia . 
He wrote , describing his reception at home , and the splendid entertainments which my mother made in honour of her son . 
Some dismal quarrels , to be sure , ensued , because my brother persisted in maintaining his friendship with Colonel Washington , of Mount Vernon , whose praises Harry never was tired of singing . 
If these battles between Harry and our mother were frequent , as , in his letters , he described them to be , I wondered , for my part , why he should continue at home ? 
`` You know , '' says he , `` Cousin Harry gave me my little horse : and I ca n't help liking you , because you are so like Harry , and because they 're always saying things of you at home , and it 's a shame ; and I have brought my whistle and coral that my godmamma Lady Suckling gave me , for your little boy ; and if you 're so poor , Cousin George , here 's my gold moidore , and it 's worth ever so much , and it 's no use to me , because I may n't spend it , you know . '' 
N6310131 IN our early days at home , when Harry and I used to be so undutiful to our tutor , who would have thought that Mr. Esmond Warrington of Virginia would turn Bearleader himself ? 
I have said how my mother saved money for Harry , and how the two were in my debt . 
But when Harry spent money , he spent it fancying it to be his ; Madam Esmond never could be made to understand she was dealing hardly with me -- the money was paid and gone , and there was an end of it . 
Now , at the end of ' 62 , I remember Harry sent over a considerable remittance for the purchase of his promotion , begging me at the same time to remember that he was in my debt , and to draw on his agents if I had any need . 
He did not know how great the need was , or how my little capital had been swallowed . 
I love cards , and play , and court ; and oh , Harry , you do n't know all ! '' 
`` His father married Anne Hyde , and sure the Esmond blood is as good as any that 's not royal . 
Mr. Walpole bid for her portrait , but I made free with Harry 's money so far as to buy the picture in : and it now hangs over the mantel-piece of the chamber in which I write . 
What with jewels , laces , trinkets , and old china which she had gathered -- Harry became possessed of more than four thousand pounds by his aunt 's legacy . 
As to mine , poor Harry at this time did not know the state of it . 
My mother had never informed him that she had ceased remitting to me . 
She helped him with a considerable sum , the result of her savings , for the purchase of his new estate ; and Theo and I were most heartily thankful at his prosperity . 
I had actually come to the end of our stock , when poor Sampson brought me his six pieces -- and with these I was enabled to carry on , until my half-year 's salary , as young Mr. Foker 's Governor , was due : then Harry 's hundred , on which I laid main basse , helped us over three months -LRB- we were behind-hand with our rent , or the money would have lasted six good weeks longer -RRB- : and when this was pretty near expended , what should arrive but a bill of exchange for a couple of hundred pounds from Jamaica , with ten thousand blessings from the dear friends there , and fond scolding from the General that we had not sooner told him of our necessity -- of which he had only heard through our friend Mr. Foker , who spoke in such terms of Theo and myself as to make our parents more than ever proud of their children . 
We boys were more careless about our letters to one another : I especially , who perhaps chose rather to look down upon my younger brother 's literary performances ; but my wife is not so supercilious , and hath kept no small number of Harry 's letters , as well as those of the angelic being whom we were presently to call sister . 
cries my wife , when we got that notable letter in which Harry first made us acquainted with the name of his charmer . 
`` She was a very pretty little maid when I left home , she may be a perfect beauty now , '' I remarked , as I read over the longest letter Harry ever wrote on private affairs . 
`` We agreed that Hetty and Harry were not to be happy together , my love , '' say I. Theo gives her husband a kiss . 
`` I was afraid lest -- lest Hetty should have led him , you see : and I think she hath the better head . 
But , from reading this , it appears that the new lady has taken command of poor Harry , '' and she hands me the letter . 
` O , Mr. Harry ! 
And for you , Harry , I will have you bring none of your garrison-manners hither . 
Do I understand Captain Warrington aright , that he intends to offer me Miss Mountain as a daughter-in-law ? ' 
I never heard that she repented of her injustice , or acknowledged it , except from Harry 's private communication to me . 
Harry being provided for -LRB- whose welfare I could not grudge -RRB- , all my mother 's savings and economical schemes went to my advantage , who was her heir . 
Never mind , I must cast about for some new scheme of life ; and the repayment of Harry 's debt to me at this juncture enabled me to live at least for some months even , or years to come . 
At this time his Majesty 's royal uncle of Cumberland fell down and perished in a fit ; and , strange to say , his death occasioned a remarkable change in my fortune . 
No , my brother Harry ought to have been the squire , with remainder to my son Miles , of course . 
Harry 's letters were full of gaiety and good spirits . 
His estate prospered ; his negroes multiplied ; his crops were large ; he was a member of our House of Burgesses ; he adored his wife ; could he but have a child his happiness would be complete . 
When Madam began to write , she gave us brief notices of Harry and his wife . 
Harry deplored the event in his honest way , and with tears which actually blotted his paper . 
Harry rode in the coach with us as far as our mother 's house ; but would not , as he said , spoil sport by entering with us . 
`` She sees me , '' he owned , `` and we are pretty good friends ; but Fanny and she are best apart ; and there is no love lost between 'em , I can promise you . 
And Harry , after this brief greeting , jumped out of the carriage , and left us to meet our mother alone . 
But we trusted in each other so entirely that even Harry 's duty towards his wife would not make him quarrel with his brother . 
He loved me from old times , when my word was law with him ; he still protested that he and every Virginian gentleman of his side was loyal to the Crown . 
Since Harry 's unfortunate marriage Madam Esmond had not performed this duty , though always previously accustomed to pay it ; but now that her eldest son was arrived in the colony , my mother opined that we must certainly wait upon his Excellency the Governor , nor were we sorry perhaps to get away from our little Richmond to enjoy the gaieties of the provincial capital . 
Harry had enough , sure , with such a wife as he had taken out of the housekeeper 's room . 
And the ardent Lee swaggers up to Harry , and takes his hand with respect , and pays him a compliment or two , which makes me , at least , pardon him for his late impertinence : for my dearest Hal walks gloomily through his mother 's rooms , in his old uniform of the famous corps which he had quitted . 
I vow nothing would induce her to believe that Harry was not hen-pecked-nothing . 
It was winter , and duck time , and Harry went away to the river and shot dozens and scores and bushels of canvassbacks , whilst I remained in my grandfather 's library amongst the old mouldering books which I loved in my childhood -- which I see in a dim vision still resting on a little boy 's lap , as he sits by an old white-headed gentleman 's knee . 
On the night of that entertainment , my poor Harry , as Burgess of the House , and one of the givers of the feast , donned his uniform red coat of Wolfe 's -LRB- which he so soon was to exchange for another colour -RRB- and went off with Madam Fanny to the ball . 
Harry should have been the Tory , and I the Whig . 
On which Harry roars out , shaking his first , `` Infernal villains , if I meet any of 'em , they shall die by this hand ! '' 
As a proof of her argument , Madam Esmond and Harry too would point to an instance in our own family in the person of Mr. Gumbo . 
We were still at God save the King ; we were still presenting our humble petitions to the throne ; but when I went to visit my brother Harry at Fanny 's Mount -LRB- his new plantation lay not far from ours , but with Rappahannock between us , and towards Mattaponey River -RRB- , he rode out on business one morning , and I in the afternoon happened to ride too , and was told by one of the grooms that Master was gone towards Willis 's Ordinary ; in which direction , thinking no harm , I followed . 
And from a name which Mr. Lee gave my brother , and many of his rough horsemen did not understand , Harry was often called `` Chevaleer Baird '' in the Continental army . 
He was a knight , indeed , without fear and without reproach . 
My wife thought Harry had been hunting , and I did not care to undeceiver her , though what I had seen and he had told me , made me naturally very anxious . 
Of course , in these meetings I was forced to hear many a hard word against my poor Harry . 
His wife , all agreed -LRB- and not without good reason , perhaps -RRB- , had led him to adopt these extreme anti-British opinions which he had of late declared ; and he was infatuated by his attachment to the gentleman of Mount Vernon , it was farther said , whose opinions my brother always followed , and who , day by day , was committing himself farther in the dreadful and desperate course of resistance . 
Harry is riding away . 
a palace and lands in England -- the plantation here -- the title -- and children -- and my poor Harry none ? 
If the Royalists come , they will let me off for your sake ; if the rebels appear , I shall have Harry 's passport . 
He told the men to `` lead him before their chiefs , '' -LRB- our honest friend always loved tall words and tragic attitudes -RRB- ; and accordingly was marched through the streets to the Capitol , with a chorus of white and coloured blackguards at the skirts of his gown ; and had an interview with Messrs. Henry and the new State officers , and confronted the robbers , as he said , in their den . 
Everybody 's heart was very soft with old recollections , and Harry never tired of pouring our his griefs and his recitals of his wife 's virtues to Het , and anon of talking fondly about his dear Aunt Lambert , whom he loved with all his heart , and whose praises , you may be sure , were welcome to the faithful old husband , out of whose thoughts his wife 's memory was never , I believe , absent for any three waking minutes of the day . 
And I believe a Marquise took a fancy to the Virginian General , and would have married him out of hand , had he not resisted , and fled back to England and Warrington and Bury again , especially to the latter place , where the folks would listen to him as he talked about his late wife , with an endless patience and sympathy . 
Mr. Warrington , imitating perhaps in this the example of his now illustrious friend , of Mount Vernon , affected to make the war en gentilhomme ; took his pay , to be sure , but spent it upon comforts and clothing for his men , and as for rank , declared it was a matter of no earthly concern to him , and that he would as soon serve as colonel as in any higher grade . 
No doubt he added contemptuous remarks regarding certain General Officers of Congress army , their origin , and the causes of their advancement : notably he was very angry about the sudden promotion of the young French lad just named -- the Marquis , as they loved to call him -- in the Republican army , and who , by the way , was a prodigious favourite of the Chief himself . 
`` And it was at this time , '' says Harry -LRB- with many passionate exclamations indicating his rage with himself and his admiration of his leader -RRB- , `` when , by heavens , the glorious Chief was oppressed by troubles enough to drive ten thousand men mad -- that I must interfere with my jealousies about the Frenchman ! 
` I should not have heeded it in another , ' he had said , ` but I never thought Harry Warrington would have joined against me . ' 
`` I had to wait on him for the word that night , and found him alone at his table . 
` Yes , surely , sir , ' says he , pointing to the other chair , ` will you please to be seated ? ' 
` Pray sit , Harry . ' 
``` Which charge shall I take first , Harry ? ' 
he asked , turning his chair away from the table , and crossing his legs as if ready for a talk . 
``` Do , Harry ; that is true friendship ! ' 
Well , well , Harry ! 
``` Great Heavens , Harry ! ' 
he cries -- -LRB- about this Marquis 's appointment ; he was beaten , that was the fact , and he could not reply to me -RRB- -- ` Ca n't you believe that that in this critical time of our affairs , there are reasons why special favours should be shown to the first Frenchman of distinction who comes amongst us ? ' 
Hark , Harry ! 
'T is easy to sneer at him -LRB- though , believe me , the Marquis has many more merits than you allow him -RRB- ; to my mind it were more generous as well as more polite of Harry Warrington to welcome this stranger for the sake of the prodigious benefit our country may draw from him -- not to laugh at his peculiarities , but to aid him and help his ignorance by your experience as an old soldier : that is what I would do -- that is the part I expected of thee -- for it is the generous and the manly one , Harry : but you choose to join my enemies , and when I am in trouble you say you will leave me . 
`` He spoke with so much tenderness , and as he spoke his face wore such a look of unhappiness , that an extreme remorse and pity seized me , and I called out I know not what incoherent expressions regarding old times , and vowed that if he would say the word , I never would leave him . 
You never loved him , George , '' says my brother , turning to me , `` but I did beyond all mortal men ; and , though I am not clever like you , I think my instinct was in the right . 
`` We walked into Mrs. Washington 's tea-room arm-in-arm , '' Hal resumed , `` she looked up quite kind , and saw we were friends . 
she whispered . 
` I know he has applied ever so often about your promotion -- ' ``` I never will take it , ' says I. ` And that is how I came to do penance , ' says Harry , telling me the story , ` with Lafayette the next winter . ' 
What did the General say about George 's tragedies , Harry ? '' 
Harry burst into a roar of laughter -LRB- in which , of course , Mr. Miles must join his uncle -RRB- . 
As Harry speaks very low , in the grey of evening , with sometimes a break in his voice , we all sit touched and silent . 
`` You tell us of others , General Harry , '' she says , passing a handkerchief across her eyes , `` of Marion and Sumpter , of Greene and Wayne , and Rawdon and Cornwallis , too , but you never mention Colonel Warrington ! '' 
My lady Theo and her husband , too , I own , catching the infection from her , never would let Harry rest , until we had coaxed , wheedled , and ordered him to ask Hetty in marriage . 
He obeyed , and it was she who now declined . 
Harry should have her love always as the best of brothers ; and as George and Theo have such a nursery full of children , '' adds Hester , `` we must show our love to them , by saving for the young ones . '' 
She sent him her answer in writing , leaving home on a visit to friends at a distance , as though she would have him to understand that her decision was final . 
Harry turned away sick at heart . 
They always fancied it was in action he was killed . 
