It 's a Mr. Woodbury , or some such name . 
He was related , in some way , to the Dennisons . 
He 's expected immediately . 
I 'm glad of it , for I want to put him under contribution . 
`` Woodbury ? 
-- the very man we were talking about -- Mr. Woodbury ! '' 
Mrs. Waldo , who was no respecter of persons -- in fact , she often declared that she would not be afraid of Daniel Webster -- cordially gave him her hand , exclaiming : `` We were this minute talking of you , Mr. Woodbury ! 
The constitution of the Sewing-Union was explained , and Mr. Woodbury purchased a universal popularity by equal contributions to the three Circles . 
Had he been less impulsive -- less kindly inclined to create , at once , a warm atmosphere around his future home -- he would not have given so much . 
The consequences of his generosity were not long in exhibiting themselves . 
Two days afterwards , the Seventh-Day Baptists , at Atauga City , waited on him for a subscription towards the building of their new church ; and even the ladies of Mulligansville so far conquered their antipathy to the Ptolemy district , as to apply for aid to the Mission at Pulo-Bizam , in the Ladrone Islands , which was a subject of their especial care . 
Mr. Woodbury had tact enough to perceive and dissipate this impression . 
His habitual manners were slightly touched with reserve , but no man could unbend more easily and gracefully . 
In short , the ice between Mr. Woodbury and the rest of the company was broken so quickly that even the formation of the first thin crust was scarcely perceived . 
His introduction to Ptolemy society was -- in the social technology of Boston -- `` a success . '' 
Miss Sophia Stevenson , who had a good voice , with -- it must be admitted -- an occasional tendency to sharps , led the hymn ; but the parts were unequally distributed , which Mr. Woodbury perceiving , he struck in with a rich baritone voice . 
This acquisition was immediately noticed , and , at the conclusion of the hymn , Mrs. Waldo requested that he would favor them with a solo . 
`` I prefer to listen , '' he answered . 
Unconsciously , he had hit the custom of Ptolemy , never to sing until somebody else has first sung , to encourage you . 
whispered Mr. Woodbury . 
`` After this , '' thought Woodbury , `` they can bear to hear an old song , though a thousand times repeated . '' 
And being again pressed , he gave simply , without any attempt at brilliancy of execution : `` The Harp of Tara . '' 
There was profound silence , as his voice , strung with true masculine fibre , rang through the rooms . 
Besides , I guess I 'll clear expenses , by persuading Woodbury to insure his house in our concern . 
Then , ag ` in , I dunno which o ' the two bed-rooms he 'd like best . 
-- well , Mr. Woodbury , I must say now , though it 'll go rather queer , at first -- was always easy satisfied , when he was here afore . '' 
Arbutus , or Bute , as he was universally called in the neighborhood , was well-pleased with the news of Mr. Woodbury 's purchase . 
He remembered him , indistinctly , as the `` town-boy '' who gave him his first top and taught him how to spin it , though the big fellow could n't tell a thrush 's egg from a robin 's , and always said `` tortoise '' instead of `` tortle . '' 
Mr. Hammond and Woodbury , detained by some necessary formalities of the law , did not leave Tiberius until the afternoon of that day . 
Mr. Woodbury can have the Bridal Chamber , if he likes . 
As they crossed the stream to the eastward of the village , and drove along the base of the hills beyond , Woodbury exclaimed : `` You can not possibly understand , Mr. Hammond , how refreshing to me are these signs of the coming winter , after nearly fifteen years of unbroken summer . 
I suppose , '' he added , laughing , `` now that the business is over , I may confess to you how much I congratulate myself on having made the purchase . '' 
Woodbury , who had been looking steadily across the meadows to the north , cried out : `` It is the same -- it has not yet run itself dry ! 
His eyes mechanically fell , as the wheels rumbled suddenly on the plank bridge over Roaring Brook . 
The old place , so familiar to Woodbury , and now his own property , lay before him . 
whispered Woodbury to himself , as Mr. Hammond alighted to open the gate into the private lane . 
For the first time in twenty years , Woodbury felt the almost forgotten sensation of homesteal through his heart . 
Quickly and silently he recognized each familiar object , and the far-off days of the past swept into the nearness of yesterday . 
His ear took no note of Mr. Hammond 's rattling remarks : the latter was not precisely the man whose atmosphere lures forth the hidden fragrance of one 's nature . 
And is this really Mr. Maxwell , I mean Mr. Woodbury -- well , I 'd never ha knowed him . 
exclaimed Woodbury , taking the honest fellow 's hand . 
He meant much more than the words indicated . 
Fully expressed , his thoughts would have run something in this wise : `` I guess we can git on together , as well as when we was boys . 
exclaimed Woodbury , as he hastened with outstretched hand up the flagged walk . 
The old housekeeper gave him her long , bony hand in return , and made an attempt at a courtesy , a thing which she had not done for so long that one of her knee-joints cracked with the effort . 
Woodbury thought she did not recognize him . 
he asked . 
`` I think we will sit here , Mrs. Babb , '' said Woodbury , leading the way into the library . 
`` It was always my favorite room , '' he added , turning to the lawyer , `` and it has the finest view of the lake . '' 
`` Well , Mother Forty , '' he asked , `` how do you like his looks ? 
Woodbury , however , quietly answered : `` Thank you , we will leave the wine until dinner . 
Mrs. Babb then returned to the kitchen , satisfied , at least , that Mr. Maxwell Woodbury was now really the master of Lakeside . 
Aftera long absence in India , Woodbury had come home to find all his former associations broken , even the familiar landmarks of his boyish life destroyed . 
His only near relative was an older sister , married some years before his departure , and now a stately matron , who was just beginning to enjoy a new importance in society from the beauty of her daughters . 
In short , Woodbury could not complain of his reception , and the absence of a more intimate relation -- of a sweet , sympathetic bond , springing from kinship of heart as well as of blood , was all the more lightly felt because such bond had never previously existed . 
In the dreams of home which haunted him in lonely hours , on the banks of the Hoogly or the breezy heights of Darjeeling , Lakeside always first arose , and repeated itself most frequently and distinctly . 
`` Aunt Dennison , '' as he was accustomed to call her , took the place , in his affectionate memory , of the lost mother whose features he could trace but dimly , far back in the faint consciousness of childhood . 
There seemed to be no other spot in the world to which he had a natural right to return . 
The friends whom he had left , in New York , as a young man of twenty-one , had become restless , impetuous men of business , from whose natures every element of calm had been shaken , while he had slowly and comfortably matured his manhood in the immemorial repose of Asia . 
The atmosphere of the city at first excited , then wearied him . 
The wish to visit Lakeside was increasing in his mind , when he was one day startled by seeing the property advertised for sale , and instantly determined to become the purchaser . 
A correspondence with Mr. Hammond ensued , and , as there was another competitor in the field , Woodbury 's anxiety to secure the old place led him to close the negotiations before he had found time to see it again . 
Now , however , he had made arrangements to spend the greater part of the winter there , as much on account of the certain repose and seclusion which he craved , as from the physical necessity of that tonic which the dry cold of the inland offered to his languid tropical blood . 
Woodbury 's object in buying the land had no reference to any definite plan of his future life . 
He had come back from India with a fortune which , though moderate , absolved him from the necessity of labor . 
He simply wished to have a home of his own -- an ark of refuge to which he could at any time return -- a sheltered spot where some portion of his life might strike root . 
His knowledge of farming was next to nothing . 
Woodbury , then , with a few friendly words , expressed his pleasure at having found them in charge of Lakeside , and his desire that each should continue to serve him in the same capacity as before . 
After arranging for an inventory and appraisal of the live stock , farming implements , and the greater part of the furniture , which Woodbury decided to retain , Mr. Hammond took his departure . 
Mr. Woodbury sat much longer than she was accustomed to see , in the people of Ptolemy : he sipped his tea slowly , and actually accepted a fourth cup . 
Throwing himself into the old leather arm-chair before the library fire , Woodbury enjoyed the perfect stillness of the November evening . 
The vague illumination , the shadowy outlines of the distant hills , and that sense of isolation from the world which now returned upon him , gratefully brought back the half-obliterated moods of his Indian life . 
He almost expected to hear the soft whish of the punka above his head , and to find , suddenly , the `` hookah-burdar '' at his elbow . 
A cheerful hickory-fed flame replaced the one , and a ripe Havana cigar the other ; but his repose was not destined to be left undisturbed . 
They were not the visitors whom Woodbury would have chosen , but the ostensible purpose of their call demanded acknowledgment . 
He therefore gave them a cordial welcome , and drew additional chairs in front of the fire . 
Unconscious of this dexterous advertising , Woodbury answered the Hon. Zeno : `` Since I am to be , for a while , a member of your community , I am interested in learning something more about it . 
Woodbury asked . 
exclaimed Woodbury , who , in his long absence from home , had lost sight of many new developments in American society . 
inquired Woodbury . 
A part of this explanation was incomprehensible to Woodbury , who was not yet familiar with the catch-words which fall so glibly from the mouths of country theologians . 
He detected the Member 's disposition to harangue instead of converse -- a tendency which could only be prevented by a frequent and dexterous change of subject . 
`` Your church , '' he said : -- `` I take it for granted you refer to that of Mr. Styles , -- seems to be in a flourishing condition . '' 
Woodbury could not repress a smile at this naïve statement , although it was made with entire gravity . 
`` I have seen something of your missions in India , '' he at last remarked , `` and believe that they are capable of accomplishing much good . 
Rather than discuss a subject of which he was ignorant , the Hon. Zeno started a new topic . 
Shall you attend , Mr. Woodbury ? '' 
exclaimed Woodbury , shocked as well as surprised . 
It was evident that the Member , for his own sake , would not mention the circumstance , and Mr. Woodbury , in all probability , would never think of it again . 
`` You will attend church , I presume , Mr. Woodbury ? '' 
`` Certainly , '' Woodbury answered , without a clear idea of what was meant by the word -- `` very strong ones . '' 
Growing confidential from his inner warmth , he placed one hand affectionately on Woodbury 's shoulder , somewhat to the latter 's disgust , and said : `` Now you are one of us , Woodbury , you must take an active part in our political concerns . 
`` If you wish to have your house insured , Mr. Woodbury , '' said he , `` I shall be glad to send you our pamphlets . 
He could sit at Mr. Woodbury 's table -LRB- using the knife a little too freely -RRB- without embarrassment , and could take his dinner in the kitchen without being conscious of degradation . 
And I hear that Mr. Woodbury has come to live with you . '' 
If Mr. Woodbury were a cunning employer , he would take measures to prolong this condition of suspense . 
`` Now , Bute , '' said she , as they started together towards Ptolemy , Bute leading Dick by the bridle ; `` I want you to tell me all about this Mr. Woodbury . 
What kind of a man is he ? '' 
`` He 's only been with us three or four days . 
To be sure , I knowed him as a boy , but that 's long ago , and I mayhave to learn him over ag ` in . 
It wo n't be a hard thing to do , though : he 's a gentleman , if there ever was one . 
He 's a man that 'll always do what 's right , if he knows how . '' 
`` I mean , Bute , how he looks . 
Is he handsome ? 
Is n't he burnt very black , or is it worn off ? '' 
He a 'n' t blacker 'n I 'd be now , if I was complected like him . 
Tall , you might call him -- nigh two inches more 'n I am , and a reg ` lar pictur ' of a man , though a bit thinner than he 'd ought to be . 
At another time she would have taken -- or have seemed to take -- offence , at his rough speech ; but she had not yet heard enough of Mr. Woodbury . 
She drew the conversation back to Mr. Woodbury , and kept it to that theme until she had ascertained all that Bute knew , or was willing to tell ; for the latter had such a strong sense of propriety about matters of this kind , as might have inspired doubts of his being a native-born American . 
said Miss Dilworth , mechanically , pausing at the gate to see him spring into the saddle and trot rapidly down the street . 
She was confounded , and a little angry , at the nonchalance with which he treated her oracle . 
Hannah Thurston could probably have told her more about Mr. Woodbury than she already knew ; but it would have been unkind to cut short the eager narrative , and so Bute 's report , with many additions and variations , was served out to them in chapters , during the afternoon . 
Inhis intercourse with the society of his new home , Woodbury found fewer distasteful circumstances to be overlooked , than he had at first feared . 
The novelty of the experience had its charm , and , as his mind recovered something of that active interest in men which he had almost unlearned , he was surprised to find how vital and absorbing his relations with them became . 
From the very earnestness of his views , however , he was reticent in the expression of them , and could with difficulty accustom himself to the discussion , in mixed society , of subjects which are usually only broached in the confidential intimacy of friends . 
On the evening when the Sewing-Union met at Merryfield 's , Woodbury happened to be drawn into a group which contained Mrs. Waldo , Hannah Thurston , and the host . 
`` It is the first step , '' said he , `` and its success will overthrow the dynasty of ideas , under which woman has been crushed , as it were . '' 
The phrase : `` dynasty of ideas , '' he had borrowed from a recent lecturer . 
`` You are right , '' remarked Woodbury ; `` it is not pleasant to think of a woman standing at a dissecting-table , with a scalpel in her hand , and a quarter of a subject before her . '' 
Woodbury , to avoid a discussion to which he was so strongly averse , assumed a gay , bantering tone . 
`` In the presence of ladies , '' he said , smiling , and partly directing his words to Mrs. Waldo , `` there is only one way of answering the latter question . '' 
Hannah Thurston was of too earnest a nature to endure trifling -- for such seemed his reply . 
Woodbury gravely answered . 
Besides , '' he added , `` I believe Mrs. Waldo , as our dictatress , prohibits debate on these occasions . '' 
The lady referred to immediately came to his assistance . 
`` I doprohibit it ; '' said she , with a magisterial wave of the hand ; `` and you can not object to my authority , Hannah , since you have a chance to defend our sex , and cover with confusion all such incorrigible bachelors as Mr. Woodbury , on Thursday next . 
I 'm sure he 's a misanthrope , or -- mis -- whatever you call it . '' 
Woodbury gayly suggested . 
What did he mean ? 
Mr. Woodbury , however , had withdrawn as a matter of taste and courtesy . 
She had given him the opportunity of doing so , a little to her own discomfiture , and was conscious that her self-esteem was wounded by the result . 
She could not quite forgive him for this , though his manner , she felt , compelled respect . 
Woodbury , who had not understood Mrs. Waldo 's allusion , took an opportunity , later in the evening , to ask for an explanation . 
`` Mr. Woodbury ! 
`` Oh , no , Mr. Woodbury . 
`` Both of you , at least , are candid , '' replied Woodbury , laughing , `` and that trait , with me , covers a multitude of weaknesses . '' 
Woodbury went to the meeting on the following Thursday , much as he would have attended a Brahminical festival in honor of the Goddess Unna-Purna . 
He felt no particular interest in the subject to be treated , except a curiosity to know how it could be rendered plausible to a semi-intelligent auditory . 
Various grotesque heads , accompanied by names and dates , made up for the absence of frescoes , but the talent thus displayed did not seem to be appreciated , for under some of them was written , in a later hand : `` he is a fool . '' 
When Woodbury entered , the seats were nearly all occupied , an audience of five hundred persons being in attendance . 
Even Woodbury , to whom the whole scene was a study -- or , rather , a show -- only kept his place from a desire to hear the famous Bessie Stryker . 
Woodbury was profoundly interested in the speaker , and in her words . 
Both were equally new to him . 
As for Woodbury , he had listened with an awakened interest in her views , which , for the time , drew his attention from the speaker 's personality . 
Her first appearance had excited a singular feeling of compassion -- partly for the trial which , he fancied , she must undergo , and partly for the mental delusion which was its cause . 
It was some time before he was reassured by her calmness and self-possession . 
At the close , he was surprised to discover in himself a lurking sensation of regret that she had not spoken at greater length . 
`` I was wrong the other night , '' he thought . 
Woodbury , pushed and hustled along with the rest , was amused at the remarks of the crowd : `` He ? 
-- and various other exclamations , the aggregate of which led him to infer that the audience felt no particular interest in the subject of Women 's Rights , but had a kindly personal feeling towards Hannah Thurston . 
Woodbury , in obedience to a promise exacted by his sister , went to New York for the holidays , and , as might have been anticipated , became entangled in a succession of social engagements , which detained him until the middle of January . 
He soon grew tired of acting as escort to his two pretty , but -LRB- it must be confessed , in strict confidence -RRB- , shallow nieces , whose sole æsthetic taste was opera -- and in opera , especially Verdi . 
With a wolf-skin robe on his knees , Woodbury sat in luxurious warmth , and experienced a rare delight in breathing the keen , electric crystal of the atmosphere . 
It was many years since he had felt such an exquisite vigor of life within him -- such a nimble play of the aroused blood -- such lightness of heart , and hope , and courage ! 
The snow-crystals sparkled in the sunshine , and the pure shoulders of the hills before him shone like silver against the naked blue of the sky . 
He sang aloud , one after another , the long-forgotten songs , until his moustache turned to ice and hung upon his mouth like the hasp of a padlock . 
Rising out of the Southern valleys , he sped along , over the cold , rolling uplands of the watershed , and reached Mulligansville towards noon . 
Here the road turned westward , and a further drive of three miles brought him to the brink of the long descent to East Atauga Creek . 
At this point , a superb winter landscape was unfolded before him . 
exclaimed Woodbury , scarcely conscious that he spoke . 
The sled pursued its way , regardless of the ruin , and the occupants of the cutter , a gentleman and lady , were holding a consultation over their misfortune , when Woodbury came in sight of them . 
As the gentleman leading his horse back into the drift to give room , turned his face towards the approaching cutter , Woodbury recognized , projecting between ear-lappets of fur , the curiously-planted nose , the insufficient lips , and the prominent teeth , which belonged to the Rev. Mr. Waldo . 
`` My dear , it is Mr. Woodbury ! '' 
Woodbury stopped his team , sprang out , and took a survey of the case . 
`` It is not to be mended , '' said he ; `` you must crowd yourselves in with me , and we will drive on slowly , leading the horse . '' 
My dear , you must go back with Mr. Woodbury . 
Perhaps he can take the harness and robes . 
The broken shafts were placed in the cutter , which was left `` to be called for , '' and Mrs. Waldo took her seat beside Woodbury . 
`` I 'm glad you 've got back , Mr. Woodbury , '' she said , as they descended the hill . 
Woodbury asked . 
`` I am afraid , '' he replied , `` that Mrs. Babb would resent any interference with her authority . 
In fact , '' he added , laughing , `` I am not certain that it is safe to decide , without first consulting her . '' 
Not but what Mrs. Babb is a very honest , conscientious , proper sort of a person , -- but she do n't make a home , Mr. Woodbury . 
`` That is easily said , Mrs. Waldo , '' he replied , with a laugh which covered , like a luxuriant summer vine , the entrance to a sighing cavern , -- `` easily said , and might be easily done , if one were allowed to choose a wife for her domestic qualities valued at so much per month . '' 
`` You must not take my nonsense for more than it is worth , Mr. Woodbury , '' she answered softly . 
Woodbury , welcomed at the gate of Lakeside by the cheery face of Bute Wilson , determined to broach the subject at once to the housekeeper . 
`` I want your advice , Mrs. Babb , '' Woodbury continued . 
`` That is true , '' said Woodbury ; `` and of course you must have help . '' 
She had seen Woodbury but once since their rencontre at Merryfield 's , and his presence was both unpleasant and embarrassing to her . 
Woodbury , assuming the character of host according to Ptolemaic ideas , appeared at the door , with Mrs. Babb , rigid in black bombazine , three paces in his rear . 
She felt herself , therefore , in her true element , and distributed her subjects with such tact , picking up and giving into the right hands the threads of conversation , perceiving and suppressing petty jealousies in advance , and laughing away the awkwardness or timidity of others , that Woodbury could not help saying to himself : `` What a queen of the salonsthis woman would have made ! '' 
It was a matter of conscience with her , as he perhaps did not know , that the occasion should be agreeable , not only to the company , but also to the host . 
Woodbury had only added engravings of the Madonna di San Sisto and the Transfiguration , neither of which was greatly admired by the visitors . 
He felt that his duty properly required him to investigate Mr. Woodbury 's religious views , before thus appearing to endorse them by his presence at Lakeside ; but he had not courage to break the dignified reserve which the latter maintained , and was obliged to satisfy his conscience with the fact that Woodbury had twice attended his church . 
`` Thank you for coming , Miss Thurston , '' said Woodbury , as he frankly offered his hand . 
Hannah Thurston lifted her eyes to his with an effort that brought a fleeting flush to her face . 
But she met his gaze , steadily . 
`` We owe thanks to you , Mr. Woodbury , '' said she , `` that Lakeside still belongs to our Ptolemy community . 
he answered , as he transferred her to the charge of Mrs. Babb . 
Mr. Woodbury , there will be no more arrivals before tea ; give me your assistance . '' 
he asked . 
Many of the latter were personally unknown to Woodbury , but this was not the least embarrassment to them . 
They gave him a rapid salutation , since it was not to be avoided , and hurried in to secure advantageous positions among the ladies . 
The rooms were soon filled and Woodbury was also obliged to throw open his library , into which the elderly gentlemen withdrew , with the exception of the Rev. Mr. Styles . 
`` Mrs. Babb , '' said Woodbury , coming up at this moment , `` will you please get a bottle of Sherry . 
Mrs. Bue ejaculated , as the housekeeper departed to look after the wine ; `` I think , Mr. Woodbury , they do n't take any thing more . '' 
offering her one of the two which he had taken . 
`` Mr. Bue , '' said Woodbury , turning around to that gentleman , `` as Mrs. Bue refuses to take a glass of wine with me , you must be her substitute . '' 
Woodbury , looking around , perceived that Bute had already offered his tray to the other gentlemen , and that none of the glasses upon it had been taken . 
Woodbury bowed and drank . 
As he was replacing his glass , Mr. Grindle , who had been waiting for the consummation of the iniquity , suddenly stepped forward . 
Woodbury , however , was quite ignorant of the man and every thing concerning him . 
asked Woodbury , uncertain whether it was he who was addressed . 
`` I think you would have some difficulty in finding Sherry enough to produce such a result , '' Woodbury answered , beginning to understand the man . 
Woodbury 's brown eyes flashed a little , but he answered coolly and sternly : `` As you say , Sir , there are various forms of intemperance , and I have too much respect for my guests to allow that any of them should be exhibited here . 
Mrs. Waldo , '' he continued , turning his back on the lecturer , and suddenly changing his tone , `` did you not propose that we should have some music ? '' 
`` Any thing for harmony , '' he answered , gayly . 
And he sang , in his mellow voice , with an amused air , which Mrs. Waldo understood and heartily enjoyed : `` Drink to me only with thine eyes . '' 
Hannah Thurston , among others , was greatly pained , yet , for the first time , admired Woodbury 's coolness and self-possession , in the relief which it gave her . 
She wished for an opportunity to show him , by her manner , a respect which might in some degree counterbalance the recent rudeness , and such an opportunity soon occurred . 
She was standing before the picture of Francesca da Rimini , lost in the contemplation of the wonderful grace and pathos of the floating figures , when Woodbury , approaching her , said : `` I am glad that you admire it , Miss Thurston . 
Woodbury was agreeably surprised at her perception , especially as she did not say `` Dant , '' which he might possibly have expected . 
He explained the engraving , and found that she recollected the story , having read Cary 's translation . 
exclaimed Woodbury , surprised and pleased : `` do you know the subject ? '' 
`` My own knowledge has been derived entirely from translations , '' said he , `` and I confess that this picture was the cause of my acquaintance with Kalidasa . 
Woodbury then gave her a brief outline of the drama , to which she listened with the greatest eagerness and delight . 
At the close , he said : `` I am sorry I have not a copy of the translation to offer you . 
`` Thank you , Mr. Woodbury . 
`` Not to me , '' he answered , with a smile . 
Hannah Thurston felt that there was a germ of harsh , material truth in his words , beside which her aspirations lost somewhat of their glow . 
Woodbury , seeing Miss Eliza Clancy , in company with other ladies , entering the library , tied up the portfolio and replaced it in its rack . 
`` Now , '' said Woodbury , laughing , `` I have half a mind to torment you a little . 
`` Iuse it , '' said he . 
`` It is just as I say , '' he answered . 
`` Here is a specimen , '' said he , taking the lid from a circular box of carved bamboo , and disclosing to their view some cigars . 
`` I confess , it seems to me an unnatural taste , '' Hannah Thurston gravely answered ; `` but I presume Mr. Woodbury has some defence ready . '' 
`` Only this , '' said he , with an air between jest and earnest , `` that the habit is very agreeable , and , since it produces a placid , equable tone of mind , highly favorable to reflection , might almost be included in the list of moral agencies . '' 
`` Perhaps so , '' he replied ; `` but we are all weak vessels , as you know , Mrs. Waldo . 
`` You should be charitable , ladies , '' Woodbury continued , `` towards some of our masculine habits , seeing that we do not interfere with yours . '' 
`` I do not call them weaknesses , '' he answered . 
`` A case in point , '' said Woodbury . 
Woodbury , noticing something of this perplexity in her countenance , continued in a lighter tone : `` At least , Miss Thurston , I think you will agree with me that a physical habit , if you prefer to call it so , is not very important in comparison with those vices of character which are equally common and not so easy to eradicate . 
said Mrs. Waldo , recollecting his generous donation to the Cimmerians , `` and I , for one , will not prohibit the use of your magical ingredients . '' 
`` I can not judge for you , Mr. Woodbury , '' said Hannah Thurston , feeling that some response was expected ; `` but have you no duty towards those who may be encouraged in the same habit , to their certain injury , by your example ? '' 
`` Perhaps , then , '' said Woodbury , who perceived by the rising shade on Mrs. Waldo 's smooth brow that it was time to end the discussion , `` I had best plead guilty , at once , to being something of an Epicurean in my philosophy . 
`` Well -- really -- oh no , we are under obligations to Mr. Woodbury ; '' said the spinster , thus unexpectedly appealed to , and scarcely knowing how to reply . 
Woodbury bowed dryly and turned away . 
Woodbury closed the door , walked into his library , lighted a cigar at the still burning piece of joss-stick , and threw himself into a chair before the fire . 
Now and then puffing a delicate , expanding ring of smoke from his lips , he watched it gradually break and dissolve , while reviewing , in his thoughts , the occurrences of the evening . 
Springing up , Woodbury found the volume , after some search , and soon became absorbed , for the second time , in its pages . 
Bute , standing with legs spread out and back to the fire , answered , as he turned around to face it , whereby , if he blushed , the evidence was covered by the glow of the flame : `` Well , she 's a gay little creetur , and ` taint no harm . '' 
Onthe following Monday , Woodbury having occasion to visit Ptolemy , took with him the volume of Kalidasa , intending to leave it at the cottage of the widow Thurston . 
`` My name is Woodbury , '' said he , as he took it respectfully , `` I -- '' `` I thought it must be thee , '' she interrupted . 
Thus kindly invited , Woodbury took a seat . 
His eye appreciated , at a glance , the plainness , the taste , and the cozy comfort of the apartment , betraying in every detail , the touches of a woman 's hand . 
`` I am afraid you over-estimate my influence , '' Woodbury replied ; `` but I am glad you do not suppose that I could bear malice on account of a frank expression of opinion . 
Gazing on her steady , earnest eyes , Woodbury could not help thinking to himself : `` The daughter comes legitimately by her traits . '' 
she asked ; and then gazing at him , continued , as if speaking to herself : `` It is not a restless face . 
`` This life is not at all quiet , '' he answered , `` compared with that which I have led for the past ten or twelve years . 
exclaimed the widow , turning suddenly towards him , with a bright , friendly interest in her face . 
`` Thirty-six , '' Woodbury respectfully answered , `` but I hope I shall never be so old as to suppose , like the counsellors of Job , that wisdom will die with me . '' 
The widow understood his allusion , in the literal sense which he intended : not so another auditor . 
Her surprise at Woodbury 's presence vanished in the spirit of angry antagonism which suddenly arose within her . 
She took the hand he frankly offered , with a mechanical coldness strangely at variance with her flushed cheeks and earnest eyes . 
`` Friend Woodbury has been kind enough to bring thee a book , and I 've been using an old woman 's privilege , to make his acquaintance . 
He 'll not take it amiss , I 'm sure ! '' 
Woodbury replied with a frank smile , which he knew she would understand . 
His manner towards the daughter , however , had a shade of formal deference . 
Something told him that his visit was not altogether welcome to her . 
`` I found the translation of the Megha-Duta , Miss Thurston , '' he said , `` and have called to leave it , on my way to the village . 
`` I read it some years ago , in Calcutta , '' said Woodbury , `` but I only retain the general impression which it left upon my mind . 
Woodbury smiled very , very slightly , but her quick eye caught and retained his meaning . 
`` Then I will not dissect him for you , '' he said ; `` though I think you would find a pleasure in the exercise of the critical faculty , to counterbalance the loss of an indiscriminate admiration . 
There was no assumption of superiority -- not the slightest trace of intellectual arrogance in Woodbury 's manner . 
He spoke with the simple frankness of a man who was utterly unconscious that he was dealing crushing blows on the mental habits of his listener -- not seeming to recognize , even , that they were different from his own . 
He never singled out any single assertion of hers as a subject of dispute , but left it to be quietly overwhelmed in the general drift of his words . 
To her mother , who judged men more or less by that compound of snow and fire who had been her husband , Woodbury 's manner was exceedingly grateful . 
She perceived , as her daughter did not , the different mental complexion of the sexes ; and moreover , she now recognized , in him , a man with courage enough to know the world without bitterness of heart . 
`` I thank thee , '' said she , as he rose to leave with an apology for the length of his stay ; `` I have enjoyed thy visit . 
He took the widow 's offered hand , bowed to Hannah , and left the room . 
exclaimed the latter , as she heard the outer door close behind him , `` why did thee ask him to come again ? '' 
The volume Woodbury left behind , caught her eye . 
Meanwhile , Woodbury having transacted his business and Bute Wilson his , the two were making preparations to return to Lakeside , when a plump figure , crossing the beaten snowtrack in front of the Ptolemy House , approached them . 
Even before the thick green veil was thrown back , Woodbury recognized the fat hand which withdrew itself from a worn chinchilla muff , as the hand of Mrs. Waldo . 
Presently her round dark eyes shone full upon him , and he heard -- what everybody in Ptolemy liked to hear -- the subdued trumpet of her voice . 
Will you call at the parsonage , Mr. Woodbury ? 
asked Woodbury . 
`` First tell me who Dyce is , and what is to be done , '' said Woodbury , not a little surprised . 
I was just telling Mr. Woodbury that the vessel for Madras '' -- and the remainder of the sentence was lost in the noise of the departing bells . 
Hadthe invitation to a spiritual séancebeen given by any one but Mrs. Waldo , Woodbury would probably have felt little inclination to attend . 
Woodbury asked . 
Woodbury laughed . 
`` Well , Bute , '' said he , `` we shall hardly find Mr. Waldo there to-night , if that is the case . '' 
At the noise of the bells , however , the door opened , and the owner , after summoning his hired man from the kitchen , to assist Bute in taking charge of the horse , waited until Woodbury approached , in order to help him off with his overcoat . 
`` They are all here that are likely to come , '' he announced in a whisper . 
Thus Woodbury , while heartily respecting his character , found much of his society tiresome . 
His wife , Sarah , who was six or seven years younger , was one of those women , who , without the power of thinking for themselves , have , nevertheless , a singular faculty for accepting the thoughts and conclusions of others . 
Woodbury was ushered , not into the parlor , but into the room ordinarily occupied by the family . 
A motion of his hand dissuaded the company from rising , and they gravely bowed to Woodbury without speaking . 
After Woodbury had taken his seat at the table , and Mr. Merryfield had closed the door , the medium spoke , in a low but strong voice : `` Take away the candle . '' 
Mrs. Waldo turned to Woodbury , with a face which so distinctly said to him , without words : `` It 's awful ! '' 
that he answered her , in a similar way : `` Do n't be afraid ! '' 
`` Will you ask a question , Mr. Woodbury ? '' 
`` I have no objection , '' he said , in a serious tone , `` to select a name , as Miss Thurston has done , and let the answer test from what spirit it comes . '' 
Woodbury wrote -- a long name , it seemed to be -- and folded the paper as directed . 
Suddenly turning towards Woodbury with set eyes , and pointing his finger , he exclaimed : `` He is standing behind you ! '' 
The others , startled , looked towards the point indicated , and even Woodbury involuntarily turned his head . 
`` I see him , '' continued the medium -- `` a dark man , not of our race . 
He wears a splendid head-dress , and ornaments of gold . 
His eyes are sad and his lips are closed : he is permitted to show his presence , but not to speak to you . 
Now he raises both hands to his forehead , and disappears . '' 
Woodbury silently unfolded the paper , and handed it to her . 
`` It is the actual name of an acquaintance of mine , in Calcutta , '' Woodbury answered . 
`` I do not see why it should , '' rejoined Woodbury , `` unless he has forgotten his English since I left India . '' 
At least , he was not dead , three months ago , '' he answered , so quietly and gravely that none of the company -LRB- except , perhaps , the medium -RRB- supposed that a trick had been intended . 
Only Bute , who had stolen into the room and taken a quiet seat in one corner , with his eyes wide open , gave an audible chuckle . 
The mere act of writing the name of one Hindoo had recalled others to Mr. Woodbury 's memory , and his thoughts must have dwelt , en passant , -- probably without his being in the least aware of it , so rapid is mental action , -- on some other Hindoo friend , long since engaged in climbing the successive spheres . 
`` I assure you , '' Woodbury answered , `` that nothing was further from my thoughts than the name of Rammohun Roy , a person whom I never saw . 
asked Woodbury . 
Woodbury 's eyes , mechanically , wandered to Mrs. Waldo and Hannah Thurston . 
The former preserved a grave face , but a smile , perceptible to him alone , lurked at the bottom of her eyes . 
Woodbury determined to take no further part in the proceedings -- a mental conclusion which Mr. Dyce was sufficiently clairvoyant to feel , and which relieved while it disconcerted him . 
Woodbury was too much disgusted to answer . 
His eye fell upon Bute , who sat in the corner , with his large hand covering his mouth , and his face scarlet . 
asked Woodbury , aside , of Mrs. Waldo . 
Consequently they received , instead , glasses of hot lemonade , which , by an association of ideas , almost convinced Woodbury , in spite of himself , that he was suffering under an attack of influenza . 
As the guests were putting on their coats and cloaks in the hall , Woodbury overheard Mrs. Waldo , furtively saying to her spouse : `` I am soglad you spoke your mind . '' 
For the sake of the truth we already possess , it is right to be cautious '' `` And now it is my turn to thank you , Miss Thurston , '' rejoined Woodbury , gayly , as they went out into the cool nightair . 
She understood him . 
`` Oh , there are a great many , I assure you , '' he exclaimed , with a lightness which , she knew not why , struck her unpleasantly : `` If we could take away from your surplus of earnestness , to complete my lack of it , we should get on very well together . '' 
He lifted her into the cutter , the horses started , and she was off before she had fairly time to consider what he meant . 
Bute now made his appearance , and Woodbury took his seat in the cutter beside him . 
Woodbury recalled , with a feeling of intense repugnance , the occurrences of the evening . 
`` Better , '' he said to himself , `` a home for the soul within the volcanic rings of yonder barren moon , with no more than the privacy it may command in this life , than to be placed on the fairest star of the universe , and be held at the beck and call of every mean mind that dares to juggle with sanctities . '' 
Plunged in these meditations , he did not at first notice the short , half-suppressed spirts of laughter into which Bute occasionally broke . 
The latter , at last , unable to enjoy his fun alone , said : `` When you looked at me , Mr. Max. , I thought I 'd ha ' bust . 
asked Woodbury . 
Woodbury at first laughed heartily , but his amusement soon gave place to indignation at the swindle . 
he asked Bute . 
Woodbury 's drives extended not only to Anacreon and the neighboring village of Nero Corners -- a queer little place , struck out of sight in a hollow of the upland , -- but frequently as far as Tiberius , which , being situated on a branch of the New York Central , considered itself quite metropolitan . 
The farmers around Ptolemy , who believe that every man born in a large town , and ignorant of either farming or some mechanical employment , must necessarily be soft , weak , and effeminate in his nature -- `` spoiled , '' so far as true masculine grit is concerned -- were not a little astonished at Woodbury 's activity and powers of endurance . 
More than once some of them had met him , sheeted with snow and driving in the teeth of a furious north-eastern storm , yet singing merrily to himself as if he liked it all ! 
It was noticed , too , that a vigorous red was driving away the tan of Indian summers from his cheeks , that a listless , indifferent expression , which at first made them say `` he has sleepy eyes , '' had vanished from those organs , as if a veil had been withdrawn , leaving them clear and keen , with a cheerful , wide-awake nature looking out . 
Thus , although his habitual repose of manner remained , it no longer impressed the people as something foreign and uncomfortable ; and the general feeling towards him , in spite of the attacks of Mr. Grindle and the insinuations of Seth Wattles , was respectful and friendly . 
That part of a man 's life which springs from his physical temperament seemed , in Woodbury 's case , to have stood still during his sojourn abroad . 
Woodbury soon perceived this fact , and determined , at the start , to preserve his social independence . 
Neither of the circles could complain of being neglected , yet neither could claim exclusive possession of him . 
He took tea twice in one week with the Rev. Lemuel Styles , and the heart of Miss Legrand , the clergyman 's sister-in-law , began to be agitated by a vague hope ; but , in a few days afterwards , he accompanied the Misses Smith -LRB- Seventh-day Baptists -RRB- on a sleighing party to Atauga City , and was seen , on the following Sunday , to enter the Cimmerian church . 
The parson and his wife possessed , in common with Woodbury , a basis of healthy common sense , which , in spite of the stubborn isolation of their sect , made them tolerant . 
Hence , Woodbury found no pleasanter house than theirs , in all his rounds , and the frank way in which he occasionally claimed their scanty hospitality was so much like that of a brother , that the parson declared to his wife , it expressed his idea of Christian society . 
I am afraid I shall injure Mr. Waldo 's reputation , but I am bound to state that Woodbury was the last man whom he would have attempted to secure , as a proselyte . 
Woodbury brought to her from New York an engraving of Ary Scheffer 's `` Christus Consolator , '' which not only gave her great delight , but was of service in a way she did not suspect . 
Hannah Thurston had been invited to tea by the hostess , and Woodbury by Mr. Waldo , who had met him in the streets of Ptolemy . 
His self-complacency was a little disturbed by the sight of Woodbury , whose discomfiture , during the evening , he mentally resolved to accomplish . 
His victim , however , was in an unusually cheerful mood , and every arrow which the indignant Seth shot , though feathered to the barb with insinuation , flew wide of the mark . 
Woodbury joined in denunciation of the opium traffic ; he trampled on the vices of pride , hypocrisy , and selfishness ; he abhorred intemperance , hated oppression , and glorified liberty . 
But he continually brought the conversation back to its key-note of playful humor , cordially seconded by Mrs. Waldo , whose only fault , in the eyes of her reforming friends , was that she had no taste for serious discussion . 
`` It is time that hackneyed superstition were given up , '' said Woodbury . 
retorted Woodbury , laughing . 
`` If you were familiar with cities , Mrs. Merryfield , '' said Woodbury , `` you would find that they admit of the nearest approach to social independence . 
`` I do deny it , '' replied Woodbury , whose unusual patience was nearly exhausted . 
A sweet , serious smile , betraying that breath of dried roses which greets us as we open some forgotten volume of the past , stole over Woodbury 's face . 
His voice , also , when he spoke , betrayed the change . 
Some memory , suddenly awakened , had banished the present controversy from his mind . 
`` It is strange , '' said he , slowly , addressing Mrs. Waldo , rather than the speaker , `` how a new life , like mine in India , can make one forget what has gone before it . 
Woodbury looked around . 
Hannah Thurston , meeting his questioning glance , silently nodded . 
Thus encouraged , Woodbury began : `` It happened after my father 's death , and before I left New York for Calcutta . 
`` Meanwhile , '' Woodbury continued , `` I still kept up intercourse with the circle in which my father moved , and which , at that time , would have been called ` fashionable . ' 
there 's Woodbury ! 
``` Woodbury ! 
Woodbury ! ' 
`` You are hardly just , '' said Hannah Thurston , addressing the last speaker ; `` Mr. Woodbury 's story hasa moral , and I am very glad he has given it to us . '' 
He was endeavoring to find some point at which he might carp , with a show of reason , when Miss Carrie Dilworth entered the room , and presently Bute Wilson , who had driven from Lakeside to take Woodbury home . 
`` I 'll come at once , then , '' said Woodbury , and took leave of the company . 
AsBute , on entering the village , passed the Widow Thurston 's cottage , he noticed a dim little figure emerging from the gate . 
After Woodbury had taken leave , there was a general movement of departure . 
The absence of Woodbury restored his equanimity of temper , and he was as amiably disposed as was possible to his incoherent nature . 
He was not keen enough to perceive the strong relief into which his shapeless mind was thrown by the symmetry and balance of the man whom he hated -- that he lost ground , even in his own circle , not merely from the discomfiture of the moment , but far more from that unconscious comparison of the two which arose from permanent impressions . 
He was not aware of the powerful magnetism which social culture exercises , especially upon minds fitted , by their honest yearning after something better , to receive it themselves . 
He flattered himself that his earnestness contrasted favorably with the levity whereby Woodbury had parried questions so important to the human race . 
Drawing a long breath , as of great relief , he exclaimed : `` Life is real , life is earnest ! 
Hannah Thurston took his proffered arm , conscious , as she did so , of a shudder of something very like repugnance . 
It was unusual with her , and reminded him , unpleasantly , of Woodbury 's frivolity . 
But he summoned new courage , and continued : `` We can say things at night for which we have no courage in daylight . 
We seem to be nearer , and -- and -- '' He could get no farther . 
The other word in his mind was too bold to be used at the outset . 
Besides , having taken one step , he must allow her to take the next : it would make the crisis easier for both . 
`` The influences of night and -- other things , '' he resumed , `` render us insensible to time and -- temperature . 
Even Woodbury , as he looked out on the writhing trees , the dripping roofs , and the fields of soggy , soaked snow , could not suppress a sigh of loneliness and yearning . 
Bute , whose disappointment , bitter though it was , failed to counteract the lulling warmth of the blankets after his ride home against the wind , and who had therefore slept soundly all night , awoke to a sense of hollowness and wretchedness which he had never experienced before . 
His duties about the barn attended to , and breakfast over , he returned to his bedroom to make his usual Sunday toilet . 
Mr. Woodbury had decided not to go to church , and Bute , therefore , had nothing but his own thoughts , or the newspapers , to entertain him through the day . 
Having washed his neck and breast , put on the clean shirt which Mrs. Babb took care to have ready for him , and combed his yellow locks , he took a good look at himself in the little mirror . 
`` I a 'n' t handsome , that 's a fact , '' he thought to himself , `` but nuther is she , for that matter . 
Bute groaned and threw himself on the bed , where he thrust both hands through his carefully combed hair . 
His strong masculine nature felt itself wronged , and the struggle was none the less severe , because it included no finer spiritual disappointment . 
He possessed only a true , honest , tender heart , as the guide to his instincts , and these , when baffled , suggested no revenge , such as might occur to a more reckless or more imaginative nature . 
His life had been blameless , heretofore , from the simple force of habit , and the pure atmosphere in which he lived . 
To confess the truth , he was not particularly shocked by the grosser experiences of some of his friends , but to adopt them himself involved a change so violent that he knew not where it might carry him . 
If the thought crossed his mind at all , it was dismissed without a moment 's hospitality . 
He did not see , because he did not seek , any escape from the sore , weary , thirsty sensation which his disappointment left behind . 
The fibres of his nature , which were accustomed to give out a sharp , ringing , lusty twang to every touch of Life , were now muffled and deadened in tone : that was all . 
It might have been some consolation to Bute , if he could have known that his presumed rival was equally unfortunate . 
During this season , Woodbury 's intercourse with the society of the village was mostly suspended . 
Neither Woodbury nor Mr. Waldo had been again invited to attend . 
Several times during the session Woodbury received the compliment of documents , one of them entitled : `` Remarks of the Hon. Zeno Harder , of Atauga County , on the Mohawk and Adirondac Railroad Bill . '' 
Occasionally , also , the Albany Cerberuswas sent to him with one of the leading editorials marked , by way of directing his attention to it . 
The Hon. Zeno looked upon Woodbury , who had been so long absent from the country as to have lost `` the run '' of politics , as fair prey . 
Woodbury , however , was too shrewd , and the Member too clumsy in his diplomacy , for the success of this plan . 
As the uniformity of winter life at Lakeside gave way to the changes exacted by the season , Woodbury became dimly sensible that Mrs. Fortitude Babb , with all her virtues as a housekeeper , stood too prominently in the foreground of his home . 
Her raw , angular nature came so near him , day by day , as to be felt as a disturbing element . 
In her eyes , Woodbury was but a tenant of Mrs. Dennison , and that lady would cry down from Paradise to forbid the position of her favorite plants and her trees from being changed . 
Hence , Mrs. Babb was almost petrified with astonishment , one warm morning , on Woodbury saying to her , as they stood in the garden : `` I shall extend the garden , so as to take in another half-acre . 
`` There , '' said Woodbury , pointing to the other end of the garden . 
`` Mrs. Babb , '' said Woodbury , a little sternly , `` I shall take care that your reputation does not suffer . 
She could not deny to herself Woodbury 's right to do what he pleased with his own , but such innovations struck her as being almost criminal . 
Woodbury , on his part , was conscious of a restless stirring of the blood , for which his contact with the housekeeper was in the least degree responsible . 
He did not deceive himself . 
He saw that his apparent independence was a belligerent condition , in which he could never find adequate peace ; but not for this reason -- not from any cool calculations of prudence -- did he long to see the household of Lakeside governed by its legitimate mistress . 
If the long years of summer had made his heart apathetic or indifferent , it had not deadened his nature to the subtle magic of spring . 
A more delicate languor than that of the tropics crept over him in the balmy mornings ; all sounds and odors of the season fostered it , and new images began to obtrude upon his sleeping as well as his waking dreams . 
He knew the symptoms , and rejoiced over the reappearance of the old disease . 
He could count the accelerated pulsations , hold the visions steadily fast as they arose in his brain , and analyze while he enjoyed them . 
Reviewing , in his mind , the women whom he knew , there was not one , he confessed to himself , whom he would ever , probably , be able to love . 
His acquaintances in New York were bright , lively girls -- the associates of his nieces -- in some of whom , no doubt , there was a firm basis of noble feminine character . 
Onebalmy afternoon , when the dandelions were beginning to show their golden disks among the grass , Woodbury started on foot for Ptolemy , intending to take tea with the Waldos , whom he had not seen for a fortnight . 
Sauntering along the road , at the foot of the eastern hill , with the dark , pine-fringed rocks and the sparkling cascade on one hand , and the fresh , breathing meadows on the other , he found himself , at last , at the end of the lane leading to the Merryfield farm-house , and paused , attracted by the roseate blush of a Judas-tree in the garden . 
He rose and saluted Woodbury , though by no means with cordiality . 
`` How delightful a home you have here , Mr. Merryfield , '' Woodbury said . 
exclaimed Woodbury : `` neither is your sphere a narrow one , if it is rightly filled . '' 
Woodbury turned to the speaker , with a sudden doubt of his sanity , but Mr. Merryfield was not in the least surprised . 
`` Nobody is too old for the Truth , '' rejoined the medium , so insolently that Woodbury felt an itching desire to slap him in the face , -- `` especially , when it 's already demonstrated . 
Here 's the whole thing , '' he continued , giving the pamphlet a whack on the window-sill : `` read it , and you 'll find how much better off we are without those selfish institutions , marriage and the right to property . '' 
asked Woodbury . 
exclaimed Woodbury , turning to Mr. Merryfield . 
`` I believe it is , '' he answered . 
`` Read it , '' said Mr. Dyce , thrusting the pamphlet into Woodbury 's hand . 
`` No doubt , provided we are naturally sinless , like Adam , '' Woodbury could not help saying , as he took the pamphlet . 
He had no scruples in receiving and reading it , for he was not one of those delicate , effeminate minds , who are afraid to look on error lest they may be infected . 
His principles were so well-based that every shock only settled them the more firmly . 
He had never preferred ignorance to unpleasant knowledge , and all of the latter which he had gained had not touched the sound manliness of his nature . 
cried Mr. Dyce , in answer to his remark . 
Mr. Merryfield did not seem able to answer these declarations , absurd as they were , and Woodbury kept silent , from self-respect . 
The former , however , was stronger in his instincts than in his powers of argument , and shrank , with a sense of painful repugnance , from a theory which he was unable to combat . 
Woodbury read the man at a glance , and received , also , a faint suspicion of Mr. Merryfield 's impatience at his stay ; but he , himself , had little patience with the latter 's absurdities , and was quite content that he should endure the punishment he had invoked . 
`` There is mischief in that man , '' thought Woodbury . 
Mr. Merryfield , in spite of his trepidation -- for he was a thorough physical coward , and the moral courage on which he plumed himself was a sham article , principally composed of vanity -- nevertheless felt a sense of relief from Woodbury 's composed , indifferent air . 
He did not feel quite so helpless as usual in Woodbury 's presence , after that . 
`` Will you come , as it were '' -- said he ; `` that is , would you like '' -- Woodbury , who had turned his back upon Mr. Dyce , after speaking , suddenly interrupted him with : `` How do you do , Mrs. Merryfield ? '' 
`` Pray , allow me to accompany you , '' said Woodbury . 
`` Miss Thurston , '' said Woodbury , suddenly , `` would you like to have some bulbs of gladeolus and tiger-lily ? 
As they left the garden , Woodbury quietly took the basket , saying : `` I am walking to Ptolemy also , Miss Thurston . '' 
It was impossible to decline his company , though the undefinable sense of unrest with which his presence always affected her , made the prospect of the walk far from agreeable . 
Side by side they passed down the lane , and had nearly gained the highway , when Woodbury broke the silence by saying : `` What do you think of Mr. Dyce ? '' 
he exclaimed , with energy . 
I beg pardon , '' he added , apologetically , `` I did not mean to be dictatorial ; but the man is thoroughly false and bad . '' 
For a moment , a sharp retort hovered on Woodbury 's tongue . 
How can we know , he might have said , that we are right in accepting views , the extreme character of which is self-evident ? 
Woodbury then related the incident of the piano . 
He began to feel a friendly pity for the girl walking beside him . 
Her intense earnestness , he saw , and her ignorance of the true nature of men , were likely to betray her , as in the present case , into associations , the thought of which made him shudder . 
He would at least save her from this , and therefore told the story , with an uncomfortable sense , all the while , of the pamphlet in his pocket . 
She distrusted the influence which , in spite of herself , Woodbury exercised upon her . 
`` I see your eyes wander off to the hills , '' he said , after an interval of silence . 
She turned her surprised face full towards him . 
The dreamy expression which softened its outline , and hovered in the luminous depth of her eyes , did not escape him . 
`` Oh , I know it , '' he added , laughing . 
`` You have been in Switzerland , Mr. Woodbury ! '' 
He described to her his Swiss tour , inspired to prolong the narrative by the eager interest she exhibited . 
The landscapes of the higher Alps stood clear in his memory , and he had the faculty of translating them distinctly into words . 
Commencing with the valley of the Reuss , he took her with him over the passes of the Furca and the Grimsel , and had only reached the falls of the Aar , when the gate of the Widow Thurston 's cottage shut down upon the Alpine trail . 
`` We will finish the trip another time , '' said Woodbury , as he opened the gate for her . 
She offered him her hand , which he pressed cordially . 
`` I should like to call upon your mother again , '' he said . 
As he walked down the street towards the Cimmerian parsonage , his thoughts ran somewhat in this wise : `` How much natural poetry and enthusiasm that girl has in her nature ! 
Pursuing these reflections , he was about passing the parsonage without recognizing it , when a cheery voice rang out to him from the open door : `` Have you lost the way , Mr. Woodbury ? '' 
``` Not lost , but gone before , ' '' said he , as he turned back to the gate . 
`` Ah , Mrs. Waldo , '' replied Woodbury , `` if you suffered under your faith , instead of rejoicing in it , I should doubt your Christianity . 
`` Only for the pleasure of being reconverted , '' said he ; `` but come -- be my mother-confessoress . 
He would not first have felt the tyranny now , she knew , unless a stronger feeling made it irksome . 
`` I walked from Merryfield 's , this afternoon , with Hannah Thurston , '' he presently remarked . 
`` You there , Mr. Woodbury ! 
Woodbury saw her dangerous position on the rock , at the very moment the catastrophe occurred . 
With an instant intuition , he perceived that the nearest point of the stream was a bend a little below ; a few bounds brought him to the bank , in time to plunge in and catch the pink frock as it was swept down the swift current . 
He had no time to think or calculate chances . 
The stream , although not more than four or five feet deep and twenty in breadth , bore him along with such force that he found it impossible to gain his feet . 
His eye caught it , and , half springing up as he dashed along , he seized it with one hand . 
The momentary support enabled him to resist the current sufficiently to get his feet on the bottom , but they could gain no hold on the slippery rock . 
As he slipped and caught alternately , in a desperate struggle , Phillis , struggling blindly with him , managed to get her arms around his neck . 
Thin as they were , they seemed to have the mascular power of snakes , and , in his hampered condition , he found it impossible to loosen her hold . 
Woodbury , after letting go his hold of the shrub , turned his face with the stream , to spy , in advance , some new point of escape . 
He saw , a hundred feet ahead , the sharp edge of silver where the sun played on the top of the fall : the sudden turns of the stream were all behind him , and it now curved gradually to the right , slightly widening as it approached the brink . 
His perceptions , acting with the rapidity of lightning , told him that he must either gain the left bank before making half the remaining distance , or keep in the middle of the current , and trust to the chance of grasping a rock which rose a little above the water , a few feet in advance of the fall . 
He was an experienced swimmer , but a few strokes convinced him that the first plan would not succeed . 
Before reaching the rock the water grew deeper , and the current whirled in strong eddies , which would give him some little power to direct his course . 
In a second they seethed around him , and , though the bottom fell away from under his feet , he felt a sudden support from the back water from the rock . 
One tremendous effort and he reached it . 
Woodbury had gained a firm hold of the rock , but the water was up to his shoulders , the conflicting currents tugged him this way and that , and he was unable to clasp his charge securely . 
Her arms were still tight about his neck , but if her strength should give way , their situation would become critical . 
He saw the effort made for their rescue , and its failure . 
he shouted . 
A single glance showed her the difficulty under which Woodbury labored , and a sickening anxiety again overcame her . 
Taking her stand on a point of the bank , some feet above the rock where Woodbury clung , she gathered the shawls in loose links and held the board ready to throw . 
Woodbury , whose position was such that he could see her movements without risking his hold , now called to her : `` As far as you can throw ! '' 
It fell beyond the centre of the current , whirled around once or twice upon an eddy , and was sheering back towards the bank again , when Woodbury , whispering to Phillis , `` Hold fast , darling ! '' 
With some difficulty , and with more risk to himself than the two anxious women on the bank were aware of , he drew the wet , sticky slip-noose of the scarf over Phillis 's head and one arm , bringing it under her elbow before he could loosen her hold upon his neck . 
Woodbury let go the frail raft , which , impelled by the dragging weight of the shawls , darted at once half-way across the stream . 
Woodbury , relieved of his burden , now held his position with less difficulty . 
The coldness of the water , not yet tempered by the few days of summer , nevertheless , began to be numb him , and he was obliged to struggle against a growing exhaustion . 
Woodbury cautiously slid down , gained a firm foothold , and slowly crossed , walking sidewise , supported by the plank . 
As he neared the bank , he stretched out his left hand , which was grasped by Merryfield , who drew so tremendously that he almost lost his footing at the last moment . 
As he felt the dry earth under him , a singular numbness fell upon him . 
He saw , as in a dream , Mrs. Waldo and Hannah Thurston ; the former streaming with grateful tears , the latter pale and glad , with a moist light in her eyes . 
He sat down upon the nearest rock , chilled to the bone ; his lips were blue and his teeth chattered . 
`` It is cold bathing , '' said he : `` have you any wine ? '' 
Mr. Merryfield took off his coat , and having removed Woodbury 's with some little trouble , substituted it . 
The dry warmth began to revive him . 
he asked . 
Her father brought her in his arms and set her down before Woodbury . 
`` There , Phillis , '' said he , and his voice trembled a little , `` you must thank the gentleman for saving your life . '' 
`` Not me , '' said Woodbury , rising slowly and wearily , and turning towards Hannah , `` but Miss Thurston . 
He took her hand . 
His fingers were as cold as ice , yet a warmth she never before felt streamed from them through her whole frame . 
exclaimed Woodbury fervently , as he drank . 
It was , in truth , the vilest form of whiskey , but it steadied his teeth and thawed his frozen blood . 
he said . 
`` Thank you , my friends , '' Woodbury answered . 
He put his hand on the sawyer 's shoulder , to steady himself , for his steps were still tottering , and was turning away , when he perceived his wet coat , spread out on a rock . 
Picking it up , he took a note-book and some pulpy letters from the breast-pocket . 
After examining the latter , he crushed them in his hand , and tossed them into the stream . 
He then felt the deep side-pockets : in one there was a wet handkerchief , but on reaching the other he dropped the coat . 
`` There , Mr. Dyce , '' said he , `` you will find your pamphlet . 
The sawyer , with a rough tenderness , insisted on keeping his arm around Woodbury 's waist , and on reaching the mill produced the black jug , from which it was impossible to escape without a mild libation . 
Woodbury repaid it the next day with a bottle of smoky `` Islay , '' the remembrance of which made Jones 's mouth water for years afterwards . 
`` How is Mr. Woodbury ? 
I hope he has not suffered from being so long in the water . '' 
Just as they entered the town , Mr. Woodbury passed the carriage on horseback . 
Glancing at its occupants , he recognized Mrs. Merryfield , bowed , and reined in his horse as if to speak , but seeing Dyce , his cordial expression became suddenly grave , and he rode on . 
A secret uneasiness had been growing upon her during the latter part of the way , and Woodbury 's look inspired her with a vague fear . 
She involuntarily hoped that she might not meet him again , or any one she knew , before leaving Tiberius . 
Moreover , Woodbury would probably put up at the hotel which she and her husband usually visited . 
As the former was giving orders about the horse to the attendant ostler , Woodbury came down the steps and immediately recognized the new arrivals . 
he exclaimed , `` is all Ptolemy coming to Tiberius to-day ? 
Your wife has the start of you , Mr. Merryfield : I passed her this evening '' -- A violent grasp on his arm interrupted him . 
Its expression of pain and anxiety was unmistakable , and a presentiment of the incredible truth shot through Woodbury 's mind . 
It is fortunate that you have betrayed yourself to Mr. Woodbury instead of some one else . 
Woodbury , seeing the necessity of a private understanding , invited them both to his room , where the whole affair was explained to him , and he was able to assure them , by recalling the hour of his own arrival , that Dyce and Mrs. Merryfield must be still in the town . 
`` Then it is quite unlikely that she is there , '' said Woodbury . 
Merryfield led the way , much supported and encouraged by Woodbury 's prompt , energetic manner . 
He had now less dread of the inevitable encounter with Dyce . 
`` I have it , '' said Woodbury , suddenly . 
He boldly entered the garden and stepped upon the Grecian portico . 
The windows had muslin curtains across their lower half , but he easily looked over them into the room . 
On the other side of the lamp , with his back to her , sat a man , absorbed in a newspaper . 
Noting all this at a glance , Woodbury knocked at the door . 
Woodbury assumed a natural air of embarrassed disappointment . 
`` I am afraid , '' said he , `` that I have made a mistake . 
I am a stranger here , '' and he rejoined his friends . 
`` Now , '' said he , `` to save time , Mr. Waldo , you and I must visit the other hotels , dividing them between us . 
Hitherto , the motion and excitement of the pursuit had kept him up , but now he began to feel exhausted and desponding . 
He had not eaten since noon , and experienced all the weakness without the sensation of hunger . 
A powerful desire for an artificial stimulant came over him , and , for a moment , he halted before the red light of a drinking-saloon , wondering whether there was any one inside who could recognize him . 
The door opened , and an atmosphere of rank smoke , tobacco-soaked sawdust , and pungent whiskey gushed out ; oaths and fragments of obscene talk met his ears , and he hurried away in disgust . 
At `` The Eagle '' he fortified himself again with ice-water , and then took his stand on the opposite corner , screened from the lamp-light by an awning-post . 
What business , he thought , had people to be eating ice-cream and singing songs ? 
How long a time his friends had been absent ! 
A terrible fear came over him -- what if he should not find his wife ? 
At night -- no , he dared not think of it . 
He looked down the crossing streets , in all four directions , as far as his eye could pierce , and inspected the approaching figures . 
Now he was sure he recognized Woodbury 's commanding form ; now the brisk gait of the short clergyman . 
`` Cheer up , '' said the clergyman , `` Mr. Woodbury will be here in a moment . '' 
`` He is here already , '' said Woodbury , joining them at the instant . 
`` I have '' -- -- He paused , recognizing the gig and its occupants , and looked inquiringly at Mr. Waldo . 
Follow us : Mr. Woodbury will lead the way . '' 
Woodbury called the landlord to the door , gave the horse into his charge , and engaged a private room until midnight . 
There was one , he had already ascertained , adjoining the parlor on the second story . 
He offered liberal pay , provided no later visitors were thrust upon them , and the landlord was very willing to make the arrangement . 
It was not often that he received so much patronage in one evening . 
At the door the clergyman turned and whispered to Woodbury and Hannah Thurston : `` You may not be needed : wait until I summon you . '' 
You know , both of you , that any man would as lief be thought wicked as chaste -- that women are poor , ignorant fools '' -- One of the folding-doors which communicated with the adjoining room was suddenly torn open , and Woodbury appeared . 
His brown eyes , flashing indignant fire , were fixed upon Dyce . 
With three strides , Woodbury was before him . 
he cried , `` you have been allowed to say too much already . 
If you , '' he added , turning to the others , `` have patience with this beast , I have not . '' 
Woodbury 's face was pale , but calm , and his lips parted in a smile , the expression of which struck terror to the heart of the medium . 
Woodbury followed him to the door , and said , before he closed it : `` Recollect , youleave here by the midnight train . '' 
As he closed the door , Woodbury saw the conquered and penitent wife look up with streaming eyes , sobbing convulsively , and stretch out her arms . 
The next instant , Mrs. Waldo had half embraced him , in the rush of her pent-up gratitude . 
A whispered conversation was carried on between Woodbury and the Waldos , so as not to disturb the low voices in the next room ; but at the end of ten minutes the door opened and Merryfield appeared . 
`` We will go home to-night , as it were , '' said he . 
Woodbury whispered to her : `` I shall wait until the train leaves . '' 
Outside of Tiberius they halted , and Merryfield joined his wife . 
Woodbury , who was early upon the ground , was much interested in the scene . 
The effect of such meetings , Woodbury confessed to himself , could not be otherwise than good ; the reform was necessary among a people whose excitable temperament naturally led them to excesses , and perhaps it was only one extreme which could counteract the other . 
The band occupied the platform for some time after he arrived , and its performances gave intense satisfaction to the people . 
Woodbury , who was leaning against a tree , near the end of a plank upon which his friends the Waldos were seated , listened with an involuntary sensation of pain and regret . 
Woodbury , who was not aware of this trick , was agreeably surprised at the natural warmth and eloquence of the speaker 's language . 
`` Flashy , but not bad of its kind , '' said Woodbury , in reply to Mrs. Waldo 's question . 
She shook her hand menacingly , and Woodbury , much amused and not a little curious to hear the speaker , resumed his position against the tree . 
Mrs. Waldo glanced up at Woodbury with a look which said : `` Now it 's coming ! '' 
Many persons in the assembly knew who was meant , and as Woodbury 's position made him easily distinguished , they watched him with curiosity as the speaker proceeded . 
Woodbury 's sudden and violent merriment encouraged while it disconcerted him : there was , at least , nothing to be feared , and he might go on . 
`` Yes , I repeat it , '' he continued ; `` whatever name may be given to the beverage , we are not to be cheated . 
Woodbury , controlling his laughter with some difficulty , straightened himself from his leaning position against the tree , and , yielding to the impulse of the moment , spoke . 
His voice , not loud , but very clear , was distinctly heard all over the crowd , and there was a general rustling sound , as hundreds of heads turned towards him . 
`` I will only interrupt the proceedings for a moment , '' Woodbury resumed , in a cool , steady tone , amidst the perfect silence of the multitude -- `` in order to make an explanation . 
`` I made no such charge , '' said Woodbury , calmly , `` but it may interest the audience to know that sherbet is simply the Arabic name for lemonade . '' 
The laughter was renewed , more heartily than before , and for a minute after Woodbury ceased the tumult was so great that Mr. Grindle could not be heard . 
Woodbury , to escape the curious gaze of the multitude , took a narrow and uncomfortable seat on the end of the plank , beside Mrs. Waldo . 
He was thenceforth , very much against his will , an object of great respect to the rowdies of Ptolemy , who identified him with the opposite cause . 
It was time to close the performances of the day , and they were accordingly terminated with a third song , the refrain of which was : Woodbury and the Waldos , to avoid the dust of the road , walked back to Ptolemy by a pleasant path across the fields . 
Woodbury was fact assuming heroic proportions , in her mind . 
`` I think Mr. Woodbury was entirely justifiable in his interruption , '' Miss Thurston answered , `` and yet I almost wish that it had not occurred . '' 
Woodbury exclaimed . 
Hannah Thurston ` sremark remained in Woodbury 's ears long after it was uttered . 
His momentary triumph over , he began to regret having obeyed the impulse of the moment . 
Woodbury , however , forgot his self-blame in the grateful surprise of hearing its echo from Miss Thurston 's lips . 
Her remark betrayed a delicacy of perception which he had not expected -- more than this , indeed , it betrayed a consideration for his character as a gentleman , which she could not have felt , had she not , in imagination , placed herself in his stead . 
He knew that a refined nature must be born so ; it can only be partially imitated by assiduous social study ; and his previous intercourse with Miss Thurston had not prepared him to find her instincts so true . 
He looked at her , as she walked beside him , with a renewed feeling of interest . 
The excitement of the occasion , or the act of walking , had brought a soft tinge to her usually pale cheek , and as her eyes dropped to avoid the level light of the sun , Woodbury noticed how long and dark were the lashes that fringed her lids . 
`` At eighteen she must have been lovely , '' he said to himself , `` but , even then , her expression could scarcely have been more virginly pure and sweet , than now . '' 
He turned away , repressing a sigh . 
`` Every part of the earth has its moments of beauty , I think , '' Woodbury replied : `` but Ptolemy is certainly a favored spot . 
Woodbury merrily exclaimed . 
she asked , turning quickly towards him . 
The application she had made of his words was uncalled-for . 
He must not thus be met . 
He was so impregnable in his calmness , and in the conclusions drawn from his ripe experience of life ! 
He was not a hard materialist ; he possessed fancy , and feeling , and innate reverence ; but his approach seemed to chill her enthusiasm and benumb the free action of her mind . 
he answered , with kindly seriousness , `` I would not consciously destroy a single innocent illusion . 
Woodbury declined an invitation to take tea with the Waldos , and drove home with Bute , in the splendor of sunset . 
The latter took advantage of the first opportunity to describe to Mrs. Fortitude Babb the confusion which his master had inflicted on Mr. Grindle . 
She could not refrain from expressing her approbation to Woodbury , as she prepared his tea . 
Woodbury smiled . 
`` Ill news travels fast , '' he said . 
Woodbury went into the library , wheeled his arm-chair to the open window , lighted a cigar , and watched the risen moon brighten against the yielding twilight . 
The figure of Hannah Thurston , in her white dress , with the pearl-colored ribbon at her throat , with the long lashes falling over her dark-gray eyes , the flush on her cheek , and the earnest sweetness of her lips , rose before him through the rings of smoke , in the luminous dusk of the evening . 
A persistent fate seemed to throw them together , only to show him how near they might have been , how far apart they really were . 
When he recalled her courage and self-possession during the scene in the grove above the cataract , and the still greater courage which led her to Tiberius , daring reproach in order to rescue a deluded creature from impending ruin , he confessed to himself that for no other living woman did he feel equal respect . 
He bowed down in reverence before that highest purity which is unconscious of what it ventures , and an anxious interest arose in his heart as he recognized the dangers into which it might lead her . 
He felt that she was capable of understanding him ; that she possessed the finer instincts which constituted what was best in his own nature ; that she yielded him , also , a certain respect : but it was equally evident that her mind was unnecessarily alert and suspicious in his presence . 
He seemed to exercise an unconscious repellant force towards her , the secret of which he suspected must be found in herself -- in the tenacity with which she held to her peculiar views , and a feminine impatience of contrary opinions . 
But , as he mused , his fancies still came back to that one picture -- the pure Madonna face , with its downeast eyes , touched with the mellow glory of the sunset . 
A noiseless breath of the night brought to his window the creamy odor of the locust blossoms , and lured forth the Persian dreams of the roses . 
The moonlight silver on the leaves -- the pearly obscurity of the sky -- the uncertain murmurs of the air -- combined to steep his senses in a sweet , semi-voluptuous trance . 
He was too truly and completely man not to know what was lacking to his life . 
He was accustomed to control passion because he had learned its symptoms , but this return of the fever of youth was now welcome , with all its pain . 
Towards midnight , he started suddenly and closed the window . 
he exclaimed , aloud ; `` she in my arms ! 
With which consoling excuse for the absurdity of his thoughts , he went to bed . 
The next morning he spent an hour in a careful inspection of the library , and , after hesitating between a ponderous translation of the `` Maha-bharata '' and Lane 's `` Arabian Nights , '' finally replaced them both , and took down Jean Paul 's `` Siebenk äs '' and `` Walt and Vult . '' 
She recognized Woodbury as he came into the street a little distance below , and watched the motion of his horse 's legs under the boughs of the balsam-firs , which hid the rider from sight . 
In the mean time , Woodbury had picked up her book : it was Bettine 's Correspondence with Günderode . 
`` I am glad , '' said he , looking up at her approach , `` that I was not wrong in my selection . '' 
She answered his look with an expression of surprise . 
`` I am going away , in a few days , for a summer excursion , '' he added , by way of explanation , taking the books from his pockets , `` and in looking over my library this morning I found two works , which , it occurred to me , you might like to read . 
She looked at him , almost in dismay . 
`` You would oblige me , '' said Woodbury , cordially . 
he asked . 
`` I did not mean to apply the charge to you , Mr. Woodbury . 
`` I have not looked at the subject from your point of view , '' said Woodbury , with an expressed respect in his manner , `` but I am willing to believe that you have reason to feel aggrieved . 
`` Fairly answered , '' said Woodbury , smiling . 
`` This much , at least , seems to be true , '' said he , `` that a sense of reliance on the one hand and protection on the other constitutes a firmer and tenderer form of union than if the natures were evenly balanced . 
exclaimed Woodbury . 
That is '' -- he added , seeing the shocked expression of Hannah Thurston 's face , -- `` supposing them to be equally implicated in the present machinery of politics . 
The tone of grave conviction in his words produced a strong though painful impression upon his hearer . 
said Woodbury , rising from his seat . 
`` No , '' she answered , `` you have been frank , Mr. Woodbury , and I know that you are sincere . 
But Woodbury smiled as he answered : `` If it be so , why should old prejudices be worse than new ones ? 
He broke off one of the long purple bells , and stuck it in the button-hole of his coat . 
`` I like what slowly matures , and lasts long , '' said he . 
Hannah Thurston repeated some words of thanks for the books , as he gave her his hand . 
From the shade of the fir she watched him mount and ride into the village . 
`` He will probably take tea with the Waldos , '' she thought : `` I shall stay at home . '' 
She resumed her seat , mechanically taking up the volumes he had left , but did not open them . 
His words still lingered in her mind , with a strange , disturbing effect . 
She felt that he exercised an influence over her which she was not able satisfactorily to analyze . 
The calmness of his utterance , the ripeness of his opinions , the fairness of his judgment , attracted her : she knew no man who compelled an equal respect : yet there seemed to be very little in common between them . 
She never met him without a painful doubt of herself being awakened , which lasted long after his departure . 
A weird , dangerous power in his nature seemed to strike at the very props on which her life rested . 
With a sensation , almost of despair , she whispered to herself : `` I will see him no more . '' 
Woodbury , riding down the street , shook his head , and thought , as he unnecessarily pricked his horse with the spur : `` I fear she is incorrigible . '' 
He greatly felt the need of help in this extremity , yet an unconquerable shyness prevented him from applying to either of the two persons -- Woodbury or Mr. Waldo -- who were capable of giving it . 
`` They 've been havin ' a row , and no mistake , '' said Henry , `` and I guess he 's got the best of it . '' 
`` Him , indeed ! 
It 's as plain as my hand that he 's awfully cut up , and she 's took pity on him . '' 
`` And he 's like a dog with his tail between his legs . '' 
As the steamboat halted at Murray Bay to land a number of passengers , Woodbury found time to bestow some notice on his fellow-travellers . 
His attention was at once drawn to the lady and children . 
Her head was turned towards the shore , and Woodbury could not see her face ; but the sound of her voice , as she spoke to the children , took familiar hold of his ear . 
He had certainly heard that voice before ; but where , and when ? 
Woodbury involuntarily struck his hand upon his forehead , with a sudden effort of memory . 
Perhaps noticing this action , the lady looked towards him and their eyes met . 
He stepped instantly forward . 
`` I beg pardon , '' said he , `` if I am mistaken , but I feel sure that I have once known you as Miss Julia Remington . 
`` Mr. Woodbury ! '' 
Come here , Josey ; come , George -- this is Mr. Woodbury , whom I used to know many , many years ago in New York . 
You must be good friends with him , and perhaps he will tell you of the wonderful ball he once gave . '' 
Woodbury laughed , and cordially greeted the children , who came to him with modest respect , but without embarrassment . 
Woodbury had always held Miss Remington in grateful remembrance , and it was a great pleasure to him to meet her thus unexpectedly . 
He found her changed in out ward appearance , but soon perceived that her admirable common sense , her faithful , sturdily independent womanhood , were still , as formerly , the basis of her nature . 
The relation between Woodbury and Miss Remington had never , of course , attained this intimacy , but they now instinctively recognized its possibility . 
Mrs. Blake , then , in answer to Woodbury 's inquiries , gave him a rapid sketch of her own life . 
`` My husband is not exactly the preux chevalierI used to imagine , as a girl , but he is a true gentleman '' -- `` You never could have married him , if he were not , '' Woodbury interrupted . 
She listened with earnest , sympathetic interest to Woodbury 's narrative , and the closing portion , which related to his life at Lakeside , evidently aroused her attention more than all the lazy , uneventful tropical years he had spent in Calcutta . 
When he had finished the outlines , she turned suddenly towards him and asked : `` Is there nothing more ? '' 
he asked in return , with a smile which showed that he understood her question . 
She looked him full in the face , and felt relieved as she detected no trace of a pang which her words might have called up . 
The expression of his lips softened rather to pity as he answered : `` She has long ceased to have any part in my life , and she has now very little in my thoughts . 
His tone was apparently light and indifferent , but to Mrs. Blake 's true ear it betrayed both weariness and longing . 
`` I was not deceived the second time , '' he answered , `` but I will not tell you the story , just now . 
asked Woodbury , pausing in his walk . 
`` She does not belong to that class , '' said Woodbury . 
`` Yes , I do not deny it , '' Woodbury candidly replied . 
Giving his hand a hearty , honest pressure of sympathy , Mrs. Blake went to her state-room . 
Woodbury leaned over the stern-railing , and gazed upon the sprinkles of reflected starlight in the bosom of the St. Lawrence . 
Woodbury mechanically caught the melody and sang the words after him , till boat and voice faded together out of sight and hearing . 
It refreshed rather than disturbed him that the eye of a true woman had looked upon his heart . 
`` Whatever may be the end , '' he said to himself , `` she shall know the whole truth , one day . 
If each of us could but find the other 's real self , then -- why , then '' -- He did not follow the thought further . 
The old pang arose , the old hunger of the heart came over him , and brought with it those sacred yearnings for the tenderer ties which follow marriage , and which man , scarcely less than woman , craves . 
`` Very singular , '' answered Woodbury . 
Woodbury was not one of your `` gushing '' characters , who cry out `` Splendid ! '' 
When most deeply moved by the grander aspects of Nature , he rarely spoke ; but he had an involuntary habit of singing softly to himself , at such times . 
So he did now , quite unconsciously , and had got as far as : `` Thy heart is in the upper world , And where the chamois bound ; Thy heart is where the mountain fir Shakes to the torrent 's sound ; '' -- when he suddenly checked himself and turned away with a laugh and a light blush of self-embarrassment . 
He had been picturing to himself the intense delight which Hannah Thurston would have felt in the scene before him . 
Mrs. Blake and her children were delighted with their journey , to which the meeting with Woodbury had given such an additional charm . 
Woodbury accompanied them to the Falls of the Montmorency and the Chaudière ; to the Plains of Abraham and the quaint French villages on the shores ; and their evenings were invariably spent on Durham Terrace , to enjoy , over and over again , the matchless view . 
He was by no means handsome , and had a short , abrupt manner of speaking , which Woodbury 's repose of manner threw into greater distinctness . 
His wife , however , knew his true value , as he knew hers , and their mutual confidence was absolute . 
Woodbury strongly urged them to spend a few days with him at Lakeside , on their return journey to St. Louis . 
He became moody and silent , and before many days had elapsed Mrs. Babb was forced to confess to herself that Lakeside was lonely and uncomfortable without the presence of Mr. Woodbury . 
As for Bute , though he felt that he was irritable and heavy , compared with his usual cheerful mood , there was more the matter with him than he supposed . 
The experience through which he had passed disturbed the quiet course of his blood . 
Like a mechanism , the action of which is even and perfectly balanced at a certain rate of speed , but tends to inevitable confusion when the speed is increased , his physical balance was sadly disarranged by the excitement of his emotional nature and the sudden shock which followed it . 
Days of feverish activity , during which he did the work of two men without finding the comfort of healthy fatigue , were followed by days of weariness and apathy , when the strength seemed to be gone from his arm , and the good-will to labor from his heart . 
His sleep was either restless and broken , or so unnaturally profound that he arose from it with a stunned , heavy head . 
Among the summer 's work which Mr. Woodbury had ordered , after wheat-harvest , was the draining of a swampy field which sloped towards Roaring Brook . 
An Irish ditcher had been engaged to work upon it , but Bute , finding that much more must be done than had been estimated , and restless almost to nervousness , assisted with his own hands . 
Day after day , with his legs bare to the thighs , he stood in the oozy muck , plying pick and shovel under the burning sun . 
Night after night , he went to bed with a curiously numb and deadened feeling , varied only by nervous starts and thrills , as if the bed were suddenly sinking under him . 
One morning , he did not get up at the usual hour . 
Mrs. Babb went on with her labors for breakfast , expecting every moment to see him come down and wash his face at the pump outside the kitchen-door . 
The bacon was fried , the coffee was boiled , and still he did not appear . 
`` Certainly none until Mr. Woodbury returns , '' she said . 
I am sure Mr. Woodbury will see it in the same light . 
He is noble and honorable . '' 
cried Mrs. Waldo , `` I thought you and he were as far apart as the opposite poles ! '' 
`` I can , nevertheless , properly estimate his character as a man . '' 
`` Oh , I must go and see to Mr. Woodbury 's room ! '' 
`` Perhaps he 'll come this very day . 
`` I thank the Lord my mouth a 'n' t as little as your ` n. '' Before night , Mr. Woodbury arrived , having taken a carriage at Tiberius and driven rapidly over the hills . 
Before Woodbury had finished washing his face and hands , and brushing the white dust of the highway out of his hair , there was a light tap on the door . 
He opened it and beheld his coat , neatly dusted and folded , confronting him on the back of a chair . 
Bute 's room he found in the most perfect order . 
The invalid lay , propped up with two extra pillows , awaiting him . 
Woodbury was at first shocked by his pale , wasted face , to which the close-cut hair gave a strange , ascetic character . 
I did not dream this would have happened , '' said Woodbury , taking the large , spare hand stretched towards him . 
`` She had a good nurse , at least , '' said Woodbury , `` and you seem to be equally fortunate . '' 
`` Well , I guess I am , '' answered Bute , his face on a broad grin , and with more color in it than he had shown for many days . 
exclaimed Woodbury , in amazement . 
A dim sensation , like the memory of a conquered sorrow , weighed upon Woodbury 's heart for an instant , and passed away . 
`` We can arrange it together , Bute , '' said Woodbury , rising . 
As Miss Dilworth , at his request , took her seat at the table and poured out the tea , Woodbury looked at her with a new interest . 
He had scarcely noticed her on previous occasions , and hence there was no first impression to be removed . 
It seemed to him , indeed , as if he saw her for the first time now . 
`` Upon my soul , it is Lisette herself , '' said Woodbury to himself , as he furtively watched her airs and movements . 
And how astonishing , could he have known it , her ambitious assumption of Hannah Thurston 's views ! 
She felt his scrutiny , and performed her tea-table duties with two spots of bright color in her cheeks . 
Woodbury knew that she suspected what Bute 's principal communication to him had been , and , with his usual straightforward way of meeting a delicate subject , decided to speak to her at once . 
She gave a little start of confusion -- not entirely natural -- as he commenced , but his manner was so serious , frank , and respectful , that she soon felt ashamed of herself and was drawn , to her own surprise , to answer him candidly and naturally . 
`` Bute has told me , Miss Dilworth , '' said he , `` of your mutual understanding . 
`` Yes , Mr. Woodbury , '' she answered : `` I should not like to leave this neighborhood . 
`` Bute must have a home , '' Woodbury continued . 
But that would take time , and -- '' `` Oh , we can wait , Mr. Woodbury ! '' 
He smiled . 
I am afraid if I were to propose it , he would leave me at once . 
`` Only , Mr. Woodbury , if it is n't more than I am capable of doing ? 
`` I shall be sure of your wish to do so , Miss Dilworth , '' said Woodbury , rising from the table ; `` and I have the further guarantee that you will have Bute to please , as well as myself . '' 
He went into the library and lighted a cigar . 
he said to himself , with a sigh . 
The conscious thread of his thoughts broke off , and they loosened themselves into formless reverie . 
As he rose to revisit Bute 's chamber , he paused a moment , thinking : `` That I can analyze her nature thus deliberately , is a proof that I do not love her . '' 
Bute was delighted with the new arrangement which Woodbury had proposed to Miss Dilworth . 
The latter would leave in a few days , he said , and spend the subsequent two or three weeks before the wedding could take place , at the Widow Thurston 's . 
Inanother week , Bute was able to dispense with the grateful nursing which had more than reconciled him to the confinement of his sick-room . 
He required no attendance at night , and was able to sit , comfortably pillowed , for a great part of the day . 
He consumed enormous quantities of chickenbroth , and drank immoderately of Old Port and Albany Ale . 
On the morning of her departure , Woodbury called her into the library . 
`` You have done me a great service , Miss Dilworth , '' said he , `` and I hope you will allow me to acknowledge it by furnishing you with one article which I know will have to be provided . '' 
With these words he opened a paper parcel and displayed a folded silk , of the most charming tint of silver-gray . 
`` I 'm obliged to you a thousand times , Mr. Woodbury . 
`` Bute wo n't think so , '' he suggested . 
she cried , bursting into his room , `` only look at this ! 
And he 's just given it to me ! '' 
She had , however , the one merit of being an admirable cook , and Woodbury might have managed to live with her assistance , for a fortnight , but for one awkward circumstance . 
He received a letter from Mrs. Blake , saying that her husband had completed his business in the East and they were preparing to leave Saratoga . 
Woodbury was uncertain what to do in this emergency . 
There was no longer the slightest fear of contagion , and he particularly desired the offered visit ; but how could he entertain his friends without a housekeeper ? 
He finally decided that it must be arranged , somehow ; wrote an affirmative answer , and rode into Ptolemy to post it without delay , first calling at the Cimmerian Parsonage to ask the advice of a sensible female friend . 
`` You see , '' said he , after stating the dilemma to Mrs. Waldo , `` now that my tyrant has gone , I wish her back again . 
cried Woodbury , joyfully . 
`` Bring Dobbin along , '' Woodbury laughed , `` my old Dick will be glad to see him . '' 
Although neither he nor the Waldos were aware that they had spoken to any one on the subject , the arrangement that had been made was whispered to everybody in Ptolemy before twenty-four hours were over . 
Since the railroad had reached Tiberius , and the steamer on Atauga Lake began to bring summer visitors to Ptolemy , this species of despotism had somewhat relaxed , but it now and then flamed up with the old intensity , and Woodbury was too cosmopolitan in his nature not to provoke its exercise . 
In addition to Melinda , than whom no better cook , in a limited sphere of dishes , could have been desired , Woodbury had hit upon the singular expedient of borrowing a chamber-maid from the Ptolemy House . 
Mr. Blake walked over the farm with Woodbury in the forenoons , each developing theories of agriculture equally original and impracticable , while the Mesdames Waldo and Blake improved their acquaintance in house and garden . 
On one point , at least , they were heartily in accord ; namely , their friendship for Woodbury . 
Mrs. Blake was familiar , as we have already described , with his early manhood in New York , and furnished Mrs. Waldo many interesting particulars in return for the description which the latter gave of his life at Lukeside . 
They were also agreed that there was too much masculine sweetness in him to be wasted on the desert air , and that the place , beautiful as it was , could never be an actual home until he had brought a mistress to it . 
Mr. Woodbury is one of those men who demand positive character , of some kind , in the persons with whom they associate . 
He likes fast colors , and this new housekeeper , from your description , must be a piece that will fade the longer it is used . 
In that case , she will become intolerable to him , though she may not possess one serious fault . '' 
`` That characteristic of his , '' said Mrs. Waldo , `` is the very reason , I think , why it will be difficult for him to find a wife . '' 
`` By the by , '' asked Mrs. Blake , pausing in her walk , `` he spoke to me , when we met on the Saguenay , of one woman , here , in your neighborhood , who seems to have made a strong impression upon his mind . '' 
`` He did not give me her name . 
He seemed to admire her sincerely , except in one fatal particular -- she is strong-minded . '' 
I have no doubt she remembers the story Mr. Woodbury told us last winter . 
Mr. Woodbury must invite Mr. and Mrs. Styles . 
It will not do for him to show too much partiality to our little sect , and that will keep up the balance of civility . '' 
Woodbury accepted the proposition with more satisfaction than he judged proper to express . 
It was the very object he desired to accomplish , yet which he could not himself mention without exciting suspicions in the minds of both the ladies . 
He had not seen Hannah Thurston since his return , and felt a strange curiosity to test his own sensations when they should meet again . 
The disturbing emotion which had followed her last interview with Woodbury had entirely passed away from Hannah Thurston 's mind . 
Her momentary resolution to avoid seeing him again , presented itself to her as a confession of weakness . 
A studied avoidance of his society would be interpreted as springing from a hostility which she did not feel . 
On the contrary , his culture attracted her : his bearing towards her was gratefully kind and respectful , and she acknowledged a certain intellectual pleasure in his conversation , even when it assailed her dearest convictions . 
Woodbury 's reception of her had been frank and kind , but he had said less to her than on former occasions . 
Nevertheless , she occasionally had a presentiment that his eyes were upon her -- that he listened to her , aside , when he was engaged in conversing with his other guests . 
Each was attracted towards the other by an interest which directed their thoughts to the same person , and at the same time restrained their tongues from uttering his name . 
Hannah Thurston had immediately recognized in her new acquaintance the same mental poise and self-possession , which , in Woodbury , had extorted her unwilling respect , while it so often disconcerted her . 
Again the same chill as Woodbury 's conversation had sometimes invoked , came over Hannah Thurston 's feelings . 
broke in Woodbury 's voice , close behind them . 
`` Doyou know , Mr. Woodbury , '' said Mrs. Blake , the same evening , as they were all gathered together in the library , `` that I have taken an immense liking to your strong-minded woman ? '' 
`` I have never tried , my friend , '' said Woodbury . 
The ladies kissed each other , and Woodbury would assuredly have kissed them both if he had known how charitably they would have received the transgression . 
Woodbury resumed his former habit of horseback exercise , and visited some of his acquaintances in Ptolemy and the neighborhood , but the departure of his pleasant guests left a very perceptible void in his life . 
He had sufficient resources within himself to endure solitude , but he was made , like every healthily-constituted man , for society . 
Woodbury first proposed that it should be solemnized at Lakeside , but Mrs. Waldo urged , that , since her husband was to officiate on the occasion , it would be better for many reasons -- one of which was Mrs. Babb 's recent death -- that it should take place at the parsonage . 
`` Why not Mr. Woodbury ? '' 
`` He ! 
Well -- he 'd do it in a minute if I was to ask him , but I wo n't . 
Woodbury shook hands with him and complimented him on his appearance , after which he felt more composed . 
Woodbury mounted his horse and rode off , in advance , through the soft September morning . 
At the parsonage he found every thing in readiness . 
`` Promise me , Mr. Woodbury , '' she said , as she finally paused in her movements , from the impossibility of finding any thing else to do , `` that you will be married by nobody but Mr. Waldo . '' 
Soon afterwards , a rustling was heard on the stairs ; the door opened , and Miss Carrie Dilworth entered the parlor with blushing cheeks and downcast eyes , followed by Hannah Thurston , in the white muslin dress and pearl-colored ribbons which Woodbury so well remembered . 
Woodbury had been thoughtful enough to send to the parsonage a bottle or two of the old Dennison Madeira , rightly judging that if Mrs. Babb had been alive , she would have desired it for the reason that `` she '' would have done the same thing . 
said Woodbury to the Waldos . 
There was but one judgment in regard to Bute , and his wife , also , had gained steadily in the good opinion of all ever since her betrothal beside the sick-bed . 
`` I had scarcely noticed her at all , before it happened , '' said Woodbury , `` for she impressed me as a shallow , ridiculous , little creature -- one of those unimportant persons who seem to have no other use than to fill up the cracks of society . 
I do n't often quote , Mr. Woodbury , because I 'm never sure of getting it exactly right ; but it 's this : ``` What I esteem in woman Is her affection , not her intellect , ' `` And I believe all men of sense do . '' 
`` I can not indorse the sentiment , precisely in those words , '' Woodbury answered . 
`` Certainly , '' he answered , `` and with full justice . 
She stole a glance at Woodbury . 
The rest of the day passed rather tamely to Woodbury , and as he rode down the valley during the sweet and solemn coming-on of the twilight , he was conscious of a sensation which he had not experienced since the days of his early trials in New York . 
He well remembered the melancholy Sabbath evenings , when he walked along the deserted North River piers , watching the purple hills of Staten Island deepen into gray as the sunset faded -- when all that he saw , the quiet vessels , the cold bosom of the bay , the dull red houses on the shores and even the dusky heaven overhead , was hollow and unreal -- when there was no joy in the Present and no promise in the Future . 
The same hopeless chill came over him now . 
All the life had gone out of the landscape ; its colors were cold and raw , the balmy tonic odor of the golden-rods and meadow marigolds seemed only designed to conceal some rank odor of decay , and the white front of Lakeside greeted him with the threat of a prison rather than the welcome of a home . 
Woodbury studied the change , unconsciously to its subject , with a curiosity which he had never before acknowledged in similar cases . 
He saw the man 's supreme content in the healthy clearness of his eye , in the light , elastic movement of his limbs , and in the lively satisfaction with which he projected plans of labor , in which he was to perform the principal part . 
He had taken a fresh interest in life , and was all courage and activity . 
Now began for Woodbury a life very different from what he had anticipated . 
The careful respect which Woodbury exercised towards her gave her both courage and content in her new position , while it preserved a certain distance between them . 
In this respect , Woodbury 's natural tact was unerring . 
Without their knowledge , he guided those who lived about him to the exact places , which he desired them to fill . 
Woodbury insisted on retaining his independence to this extent , not from an assumption of superiority , but from a resistance to the dictation of the uncultivated in every thing that concerned his habits of life . 
He would not have hesitated to partake of a meal in old Melinda 's cottage , but it was always a repugnant sensation to him , on visiting the Merryfields , when an Irish laborer from the field came in his shirt-sleeves , or a strapping mulatto woman , sweating from the kitchen fire , to take their places at the tea-table . 
Bute 's position was above that of a common laborer , and Woodbury , whose long Indian life had not accustomed him to prefer lonely to social meals , was glad to have the company of his wedded assistants at breakfast and dinner , and this became the ordinary habit ; but he was careful to preserve a margin sufficient for his own freedom and convenience . 
It was some days before Woodbury would confess to himself the disturbance which the new household , though so conveniently regulated , occasioned him . 
The sight of Bute 's clear morning face , the stealthy glance of delight with which he followed the movements of his beaming little wife , as she prepared the breakfast-table , the eager and absurd manœuvres which she perpetrated to meet him for just onesecond -LRB- long enough for the purpose -RRB- , outside the kitchen-door as he returned from the field -- all these things singularly annoyed Woodbury . 
Woodbury , however , though his nature was softened by the charm of a healthy sentiment , was not usually imaginative . 
He was not the man to endure , for any length of time , a mental or moral unrest , without attempting to solve it . 
His natural powers of perception , his correct instincts , his calm judgment , and his acquired knowledge of life , enabled him to interpret himself as well as others . 
He never shrank from any revelation which his own heart might make to him . 
If a wound smarted , he thrust the probe to the bottom with a steady hand . 
The pain was none the less , afterwards , perhaps , but he could estimate when it would heal . 
He possessed , moreover , the virtue , so often mistaken for egotism , of revering in himself the aspirations , the sacrifices , and the sanctities which he revered in other men . 
Understanding , correctly , his nature as a man , his perceptions were not easily confused . 
He belonged to the latter class . 
It was not long , therefore , before he had surveyed the whole ground of his disturbance . 
Sitting , late into the night , in his library , he would lay down his book beside the joss-stick , which smouldered away into a rod of white ashes in its boat , and quietly deliberate upon his position . 
He recalled every sensation of annoyance or impatience , not disguising its injustice or concealing from himself its inherent selfishness , while on the other hand he admitted the powerful source from which it sprang . 
He laid no particular blame to his nature , from the fact that it obeyed a universal law , and deceived himself by no promise of resistance . 
Woodbury 's knowledge simply taught him how to conceal his trouble , and that was all he desired . 
He knew that the ghost which had entered Lakeside must stay there until he should bring another ghost to dislodge it . 
If , in some impatient moment , he almost envied Bute the possession of the attached , confiding , insipid creature , in whom the former was so unspeakably content , his good sense told him , the next , that the mere capacity to love was not enough for the needs of a life . 
Of all the women whom he knew , but one could offer him the true reciprocal gifts . 
Towards her , he acknowledged himself to be drawn by an interest much stronger than that of intellect -- an interest which might grow , if he allowed it , into love . 
The more he saw or learned of this woman , the more admirably pure and noble his heart acknowledged her to be . 
He had come to look upon her errors with a gentle pity , which taught him to avoid assailing them , whenever the assault might give her pain . 
Mrs. Blake 's words came back to Woodbury 's memory and awakened a vague confidence in his own hopes . 
Woodbury was aware of this impression , and determined not to contradict it for the present . 
Thus , tormented from without and within , impelled by an outcry of his nature that would not be silenced , without consciousness of love , he took the first step , knowing that it might lead him to love a woman whose ideas were repugnant to all his dreams of marriage and of domestic peace . 
WhenWoodbury made his first appearance at the cottage , the Widow Thurston , who had not seen him since his return from the Lakes , frankly expressed her pleasure in his society . 
`` Yes , '' said Woodbury , with a sigh , `` but one of them is long in coming to me . '' 
All that she said came from a heart too sincere for disguise , and spoke to his undisguised self . 
She looked at him with a sad , serious inquiry in her glance . 
he exclaimed , earnestly . 
An irresistible impulse , the next moment , led him to look at Hannah Thurston . 
She was setting in order the plants on the little flower-stand before the window , and her face was turned away from him , but there was an indefinable intentness in her attitude which told him that no word had escaped her ears . 
The light from the south window fell upon her face , and Woodbury noticed that it had grown somewhat thinner and wore a weary , anxious expression . 
In all their previous interviews , Woodbury had never been able entirely to banish from his mind the consciousness of her exceptional position , as a woman . 
It had tinged , without his having suspected the fact , his demeanor towards her . 
Woodbury 's lack of that enthusiasm which in her soul was an ever burning and mounting fire -- his cold , dispassionate power of judgment -- his tolerance of what she considered perverted habits of the most reprehensible character , and his indifference to those wants and wrongs of the race which continually appealed to the Reformer 's aid , had at first given her the impression that the basis of his character was hard and selfish . 
She had since modified this view , granting him the high attributes of truth and charity ; she had witnessed the manifestation of his physical and moral courage ; but his individuality still preserved a cold , statuesque beauty . 
His mastery over himself , she supposed , extended to his intellectual passions and his affections . 
He would only be swayed by them so far as seemed to him rational and convenient . 
His words to her mother recalled to her mind , she knew not why , the description of her own father 's death . 
She began to suspect , now , that she had been mistaken in judging Woodbury by the same test . 
In a few days Woodbury came again , and as before , on an errand of kindness to her mother . 
She saw that his visits gave pleasure to the latter , and for that reason alone it was her duty to desire them , but on this occasion she detected an independent pleasure of her own at his appearance . 
A new power came from Woodbury 's presence , surrounded and assailed her . 
It was not the chill of his unexcitable intellect , stinging her into a half-indignant resistance . 
Its weight lay upon her for hours after he had gone . 
Whatever it was , its source , she feared , must lie in herself ; he seemed utterly unconscious of any design to produce a particular impression upon her . 
His manner was as frank and natural as ever : he conversed about the books which he or she had recently read , or on subjects of general interest , addressing much of his discourse to her mother rather than herself . 
She noticed , indeed , that he made no reference to the one question on which they differed so radically ; but a little reflection showed her that he had in no former case commenced the discussion , nor had he ever been inclined to prolong it when started . 
Hannah Thurston had but slight acquaintance with Tennyson , who was Woodbury 's favorite among living English authors , and he promised to bring her the book . 
He repeated the stanzas descriptive of Jephtha 's Daughter , in the `` Dream of Fair Women , '' the majestic rhythm and superb Hebrew spirit of which not only charmed her , but her mother also . 
Woodbury returned the very next day , bringing the promised volumes . 
He was about to leave immediately , but the widow insisted on his remaining . 
Woodbury could not refuse to comply . 
He sat down , turned over the leaves of the first volume , and finally selected the lovely idyll of `` Dora , '' which he read with a pure , distinct enunciation . 
At the close she turned towards him with softened eyes , and exclaimed : `` How simple ! 
`` I 'm greatly obliged to thee , Maxwell , '' said the widow , addressing Woodbury for the first time by his familiar name . 
`` But it ought to be the young man 's pleasure , as it is his duty , to give it , '' he answered . 
`` It gives a poetical view of a subject we have sometimes discussed , '' he added playfully , `` and I am not quite sure that you will be satisfied with the close . 
`` Mr. Woodbury ! 
`` I honor such a feeling also , whenever it is genuine , however expressed , '' Woodbury answered , `` but I make a distinction between the feeling and the expression . 
`` You are quite right , Friend Thurston , '' said Woodbury , rising . 
He took the widow 's hand with a courteous respect , and then extended his own to Hannah . 
Hers he held gently for a moment while he said : `` Remember , I shall want to know what impression the poem makes on your mind . 
Strange to say , the boldest eulogiums which had ever reached Hannah Thurston 's ears , never came to them with so sweet a welcome as Woodbury 's parting compliment . 
Perhaps it was his supposed hostile attitude which gave the words their value , for our enemies always have us at a disadvantage when they begin to praise us . 
She could no longer consider Woodbury in the light of an enemy . 
His presence , his words , his self-possessed manner , failed to excite the old antagonism , which always marred her intellectual pleasure in his society . 
One by one the discordant elements in her own nature seemed to be withdrawn , or rather , she feared , were benumbedby some new power which he was beginning to manifest . 
She found , with dismay , that instead of seeking , as formerly , for weapons to combat his views , her mind rather inclined to the discovery of reasons for agreeing with them . 
Then , on the other hand , she reflected that such a process presupposed intention on Woodbury 's part , and how could she reconcile it with his manly honesty , his open integrity of character ? 
Thus , the more enjoyment his visits gave her while they lasted , the greater the disturbance which they left behind . 
That new and indescribable effluence which his presence gave forth not only continued , but seemed to increase in power . 
Mrs. Waldo , of course , soon became aware of Woodbury 's frequent visits . 
He had made no secret of them , as he always called at the Parsonage at the same time , and she had shared equally in the ripening vintage of Lakeside . 
But he had spoken much more of the Widow Thurston than of her daughter , and the former had been equally free in expressing her pleasure at his visits , so that Mrs. Waldo never doubted the continuance of the old antagonism between Hannah and Woodbury . 
`` Well , Hannah , '' she said , one day , when Woodbury 's name had been incidentally mentioned , `` I really think it is time that you and he should practise a little charity towards each other . 
I do not know whether you have mistaken Mr. Woodbury 's feelings : you certainly have mistaken mine . 
I did his character , at first , injustice , I will confess . 
Perhaps I may have had a prejudice against him , but I am not aware that I have one now . 
I honor him as a noble-minded , just , and unselfish man . 
It was very possible that Woodbury suspected her of cherishing an unfriendly prejudice against him . 
She had assuredly given him cause for such a suspicion , and if the one woman in Ptolemy , who , after her mother , knew her best , had received this impression , it would not be strange if he shared it . 
Woodbury supposed that he was pursuing an experiment , which might at any moment be relinquished , long after a deep and irresistible interest in its object had taken full possession of him . 
She only saw , in Woodbury 's face , the grateful recognition of her manner towards him , and her conscience became quiet at once . 
The key-note struck at greeting gave its character to the interview , which Woodbury prolonged much beyond his usual habit . 
He had never been so attractive , but at the same time , his presence had never before caused her such vague alarm . 
All the cold indifference , which she had once imagined to be his predominant characteristic , had melted like a snow-wreath in the sunshine : a soft , warm , pliant grace diffused itself over his features and form , and a happy under-current of feeling made itself heard in his lightest words . 
He drew her genuine self to the light , before she suspected how much she had allowed him to see : she , who had resolved that he should only know her in her strength , had made a voluntary confession of her weakness ! 
Woodbury rode home that evening very slowly . 
Woodbury felt that her relation to him had changed , and he could estimate , very nearly , the character which it had now assumed . 
Of her struggles with herself -- of the painful impression which his visits left behind -- he had , of course , not the slightest presentiment . 
He knew , however , that no suspicion of his feelings had entered her breast , and he had reasons of his own for desiring that she should remain innocent of their existence , for the present . 
His plans , here , came to an end , for the change in himself interposed an anxiety which obscured his thoughts . 
He had reached the point where all calculation fails , and where the strongest man , if his passion be genuine , must place his destiny in the hands of Chance . 
Woodbury had no sooner intrusted to Chance the further development of his fate , than Chance generously requited the trust . 
As Woodbury lifted his hat to greet her , his face brightened with a pleasure which he did not now care to conceal . 
There was a hearty , confiding warmth in the grasp of his hand , as he stood face to face , looking into her clear , dark-gray eyes with an expression as frank and unembarrassed as a boy 's . 
cried Woodbury , with a familiar playfulness . 
`` If you are half as little inclined for lonely walks as I am , '' said Woodbury , `` you will not refuse my companionship to-day . 
`` Nature is not exclusive , '' said she , adopting his gay tone , `` and if she were , I think she could not exclude you , who have known her in her royal moods , from so simple and unpretending a landscape as this . '' 
`` The comparison is good , '' he answered , walking onward by her side , `` but you have drawn the wrong inference . 
Hannah Thurston laughed at the easy adroitness with which he had taken up and applied her words . 
He let down the movable rails from the panel of fence which gave admittance into the meadow , and put them up again after they had entered . 
Woodbury was not ashamed to show his delight in every new fragment of landscape which their exploration disclosed , and Miss Thurston was thus led to make him acquainted with her own selected gallery of pictures , although her exclusive right of possession to them thereby passed away forever . 
cried Woodbury , as they emerged from the tangled paths , `` I see that you are recognized here . 
`` Ah , that reminds me , '' said Woodbury , finally breaking the peaceful , entrancing silence -- `` one of those exquisite songs in ` The princess ' came into my head . 
he asked . 
You can scarcely appreciate our position , Mr. Woodbury . 
`` Iwould , '' said Woodbury , quietly . 
`` Forgive me : I didmisunderstand you , '' she said , not answering his last question . 
he suddenly asked . 
The tone of mournful unbelief in her voice fired Woodbury 's blood . 
His heart protested against her words and demanded to be heard . 
The deepening intimacy of their talk had brought him to that verge of frankness where the sanctities of feeling , which hide themselves from the gaze of the world , steal up to the light and boldly reveal their features . 
`` No , '' he said , warmly and earnestly , `` the picture is not imaginative . 
The sight of Hannah Thurston 's face compelled him to pause . 
The moment he ceased speaking , she rose from her seat , and , after mechanically plucking some twigs of the berried bittersweet , said : `` It is time for me to return . '' 
Woodbury had not intended to say so much , and was fearful , at first , that his impassioned manner had suggested the secret he still determined to hide . 
In that case , she evidently desired to escape its utterance , but he had a presentiment that her agitation was owing to a different cause . 
Could it be that he had awakened the memory of some experience of love through which she had passed ? 
After the first jealous doubt which this thought inspired , it presented itself to his mind as a relief . 
The duty which pressed upon him would be more lightly performed ; the test to which he must first subject her would be surer of success . 
As they threaded the embowered paths on their homeward way , he said to her , gravely , but cheerfully : `` You see , Miss Thurston , your doubt of my sex has forced me to show myself to you as I am , in one respect . 
Woodbury exclaimed . 
`` Not only that , '' Woodbury continued , `` but still another portion of my history . 
He spoke earnestly and eagerly , walking by her side , but with eyes fixed upon the ground . 
His words produced in her a feeling of interest and curiosity , under which lurked a singular reluctance . 
`` We can not always explain our instincts , '' he answered . 
His words seized her and held her powerless . 
He spoke with a conviction from which there was no appeal , and the words of refusal vanished from her lips and from her heart . 
He took her hand and held it a moment , with a warm pressure . 
was all he said . 
On reaching the gate of the cottage , he took leave of her , saying : `` You will have my story to-morrow . '' 
His face was earnest and troubled ; it denoted the presence of a mystery , the character of which she could not surmise . 
Woodbury 's second episode of passion at first conflicted harshly with the pure ideal in her own mind ; the shock was perhaps greater to her than the confession of actual guilt would have been to a woman better acquainted with the world . 
Woodbury 's questions , however , referred to the future , no less than to the past . 
They hinted at the possibility of a new love visiting his heart . 
The desire for it , he confessed , had not grown cold . 
Deceit and fate had not mastered , in him , the immortal yearning : was he unworthy to receive it ? 
Perhaps , had she read the same words coming from a stranger , or as an incident of a romance , she would have paused and deliberated ; her natural severity would have been slow to relax ; but knowing Woodbury as she had latterly learned to know him , in his frankness , his manly firmness and justice , his noble consideration for herself , her heart did not delay the answer to his questions . 
He had put her to shame by voluntarily revealing his weakness , while she had determined that she would never allow him to discover her own . 
Little by little , however , after it became clear that her sympathy and her charity were justifiable , the deeper questions which lay hidden beneath the ostensible purpose of his letter crept to the surface . 
The reason he had given was not in itself sufficient , but presupposed something more important which he had not expressed . 
`` It is cruel in him to ask me , '' she said to herself ; `` does he think my heart is insensible as marble , that I should probe it with thoughts , every one of which inflicts a wound ? 
Why does he not send his confession at once to her?It is she who should hear it , not I ! 
He is already guilty of treason to her , in asking the question of me ! '' 
The thought of Woodbury 's love , having once revealed itself to her , would not be banished , and every time it returned , it seemed to bring a gentler and tenderer feeling for him into her heart . 
As soon as they were seated , Woodbury spoke . 
he exclaimed . 
The absolution of the sinner , '' he added , smiling , `` is already half-pronounced in his confession . '' 
Woodbury saw that her clear vision had pierced through his flimsy stratagem , and guessed that she must necessarily suspect the truth . 
Still , he drew back from the final venture upon which so much depended . 
He would first sound the depth of her suspicions . 
`` No man , '' he said , gently , `` can be independent of woman 's judgment , without loss to himself . 
But I had not supposed that you needed it , Mr. Woodbury -- least of all from me . 
he interrupted . 
`` Not yet , '' he answered , and his voice trembled into a sweet and solemn strain , to which every nerve in her body seemed to listen . 
As he paused , she pressed one hand upon her heart , as if it might be controlled by physical means , and moved her lips , but no sound came from them . 
`` I knew you could not have anticipated this , '' he continued ; `` I should have allowed you time to test me , in return , but when the knowledge of your womanly purity and gentleness penetrated me , to the overthrow of all antagonism based on shallow impressions , I parted with judgment and will . 
She turned upon him with a wild , desperate energy in her face and words . 
He did not misinterpret her excitement , which yielded more than it assailed . 
he said tenderly , `` I would give you strength , not take it from you -- the strength of my love , and sympathy , and encouragement . 
He was pitiless . 
He read her more truly than she read herself , and he saw that the struggle must now be fought out to its end . 
Her agitation gave him hope -- it was the surge and swell of a rising tide of passion which she resisted with the last exercise of a false strength . 
He must seem more cruel still , though the conflict in her heart moved him to infinite pity . 
His voice assumed a new power as he spoke again : `` Hannah , '' he said , `` I mustspeak . 
You must have tried to imagine the face of the unknown beloved ; you must have prefigured the holy confidence of love which would force you to give your fate into his hands ; you must have drawn the blessed life , united with his , the community of interest , of feeling , and of faith , the protecting support on his side , the consoling tenderness on yours -- '' She seized his arm with the hand nearest him , and grasped it convulsively . 
Her head dropped towards her breast and her face was hidden from his view . 
He gently disengaged the hand and held it in his own . 
But he would not be silent , in obedience to her dumb signal : he steeled his heart against her pain , and went on : `` You have tried to banish this dream from your heart , but you have tried in vain . 
By day and by night it has clung to you , a torment , but too dear and beautiful to be renounced -- '' He paused . 
She did not withdraw her hand from his , but she was sobbing passionately . 
Still , her head was turned away from him . 
`` Remember , '' he said , `` that nothing in our lives resembles the picture which anticipates its coming . 
She made no sign : her hand lay in his , and her face was bent towards her bosom . 
He took her other hand , and holding them both , whispered : `` Hannah , look at me . '' 
Her cheeks were wet with tears , and her lovely dark-gray eyes , dimmed by the floods that had gushed from them in spite of herself , met his gaze imploringly . 
He read his triumph , but veiled his own consciousness of it -- curbed his triumphant happiness , lest she should take alarm . 
Softly and gently , he stole one arm around her waist and drew her to his breast . 
The violence of her agitation gradually ceased ; then , lifting her head , she withdrew from his clasp , and spoke , very softly and falteringly , with her eyes fixed on the ground : `` Yes , Maxwell , it is as I have feared . 
He drew her once more softly to his breast and kissed her lips . 
He kissed her again , with the passionate clinging sweetness of a heart that seals an eternal claim . 
She tore herself loose from him and cried with a fiery vehemence : `` God will curse you if you deceive me now ! 
`` I would bind you to no more than I give , '' he answered . 
She did not venture to meet his eyes again , but she took his outstretched hand . 
He led her to the edge of the peninsula , and they stood thus , side by side , while the liquid , tinkling semitones of the water made a contented accompaniment to the holy silence . 
He felt that though his nature had proved the stronger , she was not yet completely won : she was like a bird bewildered by capture , that sits tamely for a moment , afraid to try its wings . 
He must complete by gentleness what he had begun by power . 
`` I know that you are troubled , '' he said at last , and the considerate tenderness of his voice fell like a balm upon her heart , `` but do not think that you alone have yielded to a power which mocks human will . 
She trusted his manhood already with her whole heart , though foreseeing what such trust implied . 
`` Be kind to me , '' she added , after a pause , releasing her hand from his clasp and half turning away : `` Consider how I have failed -- how I have been deceived in myself . 
`` We will let that accusation rest , '' he soothed her . 
He led her back through the tangled , briery paths . 
She took his offered hand with a mechanical submission , but the touch thrilled her through and through with a sweetness so new and piercing , that she reproached herself at each return , as if the sensation were forbidden . 
Woodbury gathered for her a bunch of the lovely fringed gentian , with the short autumn ferns , and the downy , fragrant silver of the life-everlasting . 
`` I will deliver the flowers myself , '' said he , as they reached the gate , `` Besides , is it not best that your mother should know of what has passed ? '' 
She could not deny him . 
`` Mother , will thee see Mr. Woodbury ? '' 
`` Thee knows I am always glad to see him , '' came the answer , in a faint voice . 
They entered together , and Woodbury laid the flowers on her bed . 
Woodbury was waiting for her , in the door leading from the sitting-room to the hall . 
`` I am going home now , '' he said ; `` can you give me a word of hope and comfort on the way ? 
He led her into the hall and closed the door behind them . 
He put one arm protectingly around her , and she felt herself supported against the world . 
`` Hereafter , Hannah , '' he whispered , `` no one can strike at you except through me . 
He bent his head towards her face , and their eyes met . 
His beamed with a softened fire , a dewy tenderness and sweetness , before which her soul shivered and tingled in warm throbs of bliss , so quick and sharp as to touch the verge of pain . 
A wonderful , unknown fascination drew her lips to his . 
Woodbury walked home alone , without waiting , as usual , for Bute and the buggy . 
He threw back his shoulders and inhaled long draughts of the fresher evening air , with the relief of a man who has performed a trying task . 
Woodbury paced his library impatiently , unable to read or write , and finally became so restless that he ordered dinner an hour before his accustomed time , to Mrs. Carrie Wilson 's great dismay . 
Leaving the happy pair -- happy in the rain which kept them all day to each other -- to their wonder and their anxious surmises , Woodbury drove through the wind , and rain , and splashing mud , to the Widow Thurston 's cottage . 
Hannah met him with an air of touching frankness and reliance , clasping his hand with a tender firmness which atoned for the silence of her lips . 
The next moment she reappeared at the door of the sick-room , and beckoned him to enter . 
The daughter placed a chair for Woodbury by the bedside . 
He sat down and took the old woman 's hand in both his own . 
She looked at him with a gentle , affectionate , motherly benignity , which made his eyes dim with the thought of his own scarcely-remembered mother . 
`` I will , '' Woodbury replied . 
The daughter came and seated herself at the head of the bed , beside Woodbury . 
The other found its way , she knew not how , into his . 
Woodbury was profoundly moved . 
He tenderly kissed the wasted hand he held , and said , in a hushed , reverential voice : `` I am sure of my own heart . 
`` It will make it sacred , '' Woodbury answered . 
Woodbury had taken , almost even before he claimed it , the first place in her thoughts , and though she still scarcely confessed to herself that she loved him as herhusband should be loved , yet her whole being was penetrated with the presentiment of coming love . 
If she still feebly strove to beat back the rising tide , it was not from fear of her inability to return the trust he gave , but rather a mechanical effort to retain the independence which she felt to be gradually slipping from her grasp . 
Towards men -- towards Woodbury , especially -- she had showed herself hard and unjust in that mother 's eyes . 
Could she longer hold back her entire faith from Woodbury , with his parting kiss of yesterday still warm upon her lips ? 
`` Let it be to-morrow , Hannah , '' Woodbury then said . 
She was exhausted by the interview , and Woodbury soon took his leave , to give the necessary announcements . 
Hannah accompanied him to the door , and when it closed behind him , murmured to herself : The Waldos were alone in their little parlor -- alone , but not lonely ; for they were one of those fortunate wedded pairs who never tire of their own society . 
The appearance of Woodbury , out of the wind and rain , was a welcome surprise , and they both greeted him with hearty delight . 
Mr. Woodbury will not think of going home until after tea . '' 
`` I am to be married to-morrow , '' Woodbury repeated , `` to Hannah Thurston . '' 
In a very few words he told them the truth . 
The next moment , Mrs. Waldo sprang upon her feet , threw both arms around him , and kissed him tempestuously . 
He cleared his throat as if about to commence a prayer , walked three times to the door and back , squeezing Woodbury 's hand afresh at each return , and finally went to the window and remarked : `` It is very stormy to-day . '' 
In proportion as the good people recovered from their happy amazement , Woodbury found it difficult to tear himself away . 
They stormed him with questions about the rise and progress of his attachment , which his sense of delicacy forbade him to answer . 
`` It is enough , '' he said , `` that we love each other , and that we are to be married to-morrow . '' 
As he turned his horse 's head towards Ptolemy , a figure wrapped in an old cloak and with a shapeless quilted hood upon the head , appeared on the plank sidewalk hastening in the direction of the widow 's cottage . 
The Merryfields were also at home when he called . 
Darkness was setting down , and the rain fell in torrents , as Woodbury reached Lakeside . 
By the kindly glow in his heart towards these two happy creatures , Woodbury felt that his cure was complete ; their bliss no longer had power to disturb him . 
he said . 
But he was discreet enough to ask no questions . 
After tea , Woodbury did not go into the library , as usual . 
He drew a chair towards the fire , and for a while watched Mrs. Wilson 's fingers , as they rapidly plied the needles upon a pair of winter socks for Bute . 
`` Bute , '' said Woodbury , suddenly , `` do you think we have room for another , in the house ? '' 
To his surprise , Bute blushed up to the temples , and seemed embarrassed how to answer . 
Woodbury smiled , and hastened to release him from his error . 
`` Because , '' said he , `` you brought something to Lakeside more contagious than your fever . 
Woodbury burst into a laugh . 
exclaimed his wife . 
`` There 's only one woman in all Ptolemy worthy of Mr. Woodbury , and yet I 'm afraid it is n't her . '' 
Bute tried to laugh , but something caught in his throat , and in his efforts to swallow it the water came into his eyes . 
Woodbury suspected the mother 's doubt , though he did not share it to the same extent . 
He believed that the fierceness of the struggle was over . 
There were still questions to be settled , but he had already abdicated the right of control ; he had intrusted their solution to the natural operation of time and love . 
He would neither offer nor accept any express stipulations of rights , for this one promise embraced them all . 
It only imposed upon him a more guarded duty , a more watchful self-control , in the newness of their relation to each other . 
Woodbury came in company with Mr. Waldo , followed by Bute and Carrie . 
When Woodbury took her hand it was icy cold . 
Woodbury and Hannah arose , in obedience to her signal , and moved a step towards her . 
The former had learned the simple formula of the Friends , and was ready to perform his part . 
Taking Hannah 's right hand in his own , he spoke in a clear , low , earnest voice : `` In the presence of the Lord , and these , our friends , I take Hannah Thurston by the hand , promising , through Divine assistance , to be unto her a loving and faithful husband , until Death shall separate us . '' 
Perhaps Woodbury may have felt a pulse fluttering in the hand he held , but no one saw a tremor of weakness in her frame or heard it in the firm , perfect sweetness of her voice . 
She looked in his eyes as she pronounced the words , as if her look should carry to his heart the significance of the vow . 
`` Mother , '' said Woodbury , `` let me be a son to you in truth as in name . '' 
Woodbury remained until evening , assisting his wife in her attendance on the invalid , or keeping her company in the sitting-room , when the latter slept . 
He said nothing of his love , or his new claim upon her . 
Rightly judging that her nature needed rest , after the severe tension of the past week , he sought to engage her in talk that would call her thoughts away from herself . 
He was so successful in this that the hours fled fast , and when he left with the falling night , to return to Lakeside , she felt as if a stay had been withdrawn from her . 
The next morning he was back again at an early hour , taking his place as one of the household , as quietly and unobtrusively as if he had long been accustomed to it . 
Another atmosphere came into the cottage with him -- a sense of strength and reliance , and tender , protecting care , which was exceedingly grateful to Hannah . 
She dared think of nothing but her mother , and Woodbury 's share in the cares and duties of the moment became more and more welcome and grateful . 
It thrilled her with a sweet sense of the kinship of their hearts , when she heard him address the old woman as `` mother '' -- when his arm , as tender as strong , lifted that mother from the bed to the rockingchair , and back again -- when she saw the wasted face brighten at his coming , and heard the voice of wandering memory call him , in the wakeful watches of the night . 
She , too , counted the minutes of the morning until he appeared , and felt the twilight drop more darkly before the cottage-windows after he had gone . 
Woodbury took charge of the arrangements for the funeral , which were simple and unostentatious , as became the habit of her sect . 
Hannah , leaning on Woodbury 's arm , issued from the front door of the cottage , and slowly passed down the gravel walk to the carriage in waiting . 
Woodbury 's countenance indicated the grave and tender sympathy which filled his heart . 
He saw the spectators , without seeming to notice them , and the keenest curiosity was baffled by his thorough self-possession . 
Woodbury took off his hat and reverently bent his head , though the other Friend stood bolt upright and remained covered . 
Mrs. Styles consoled her sister , Miss Legrand , who at one time allowed herself dim hopes of interesting Woodbury in her behalf . 
The memory of a certain sleigh-ride the winter before , during which her incessant fears of an overturn obliged Woodbury to steady her with his arm , was fresh in her mind , with all its mingled sweet and bitter . 
In the afternoons she went , at Woodbury 's side , to a knoll overhanging the lake , whence the landscape was broader and grander , opening northward beyond the point , where now and then a sail flashed dimly along the blue water . 
Here , sitting on the grassy brink , he told her of the wonderful life of the tropics , of his early hopes and struggles , of the cheating illusions he had cherished , the sadder knowledge he had wrested from experience , and that immortal philosophy of the heart in which all things are reconciled . 
He did not directly advert to his passion for herself , but she felt it continually as the basis from which his confidences grew . 
He was a tender , trustful friend , presenting to her , leaf by leaf , the book of his life . 
She , too , gave him much of hers in return . 
Woodbury 's admirable judgment taught him patience . 
He saw the color gradually coming back to the pale leaves of the flower , and foresaw the day when he might wear it on his bosom . 
The wind-tossed lake smoothed its surface more and more , and gleams of his own image were reflected back to him from the subsiding waves . 
Her instinct of beauty was now liberated ; for Woodbury , possessing it himself , not only appreciated , but encouraged its vitality in her nature . 
Immediately after the marriage , Woodbury had not only picked out a very pretty site for the cottage which he must now build in earnest for Bute 's occupancy , but had immediately engaged masons and carpenters to commence the work . 
It was on a low knob or spur of the elevation upon which stood his own house , but nearer the Anacreon road . 
The little woman still retained her admiration for Hannah , perhaps in an increased degree , now that Woodbury -LRB- for whom Carrie had conceived such a profound respect -RRB- had chosen her to be his wife . 
The Waldos and Merryfields came once or twice for a brief call , but Woodbury , though he went occasionally to Ptolemy , did not urge her to accompany him . 
Sometimes , on mild days , he drove with her over the hills , re-exploring for her the picturesque little nooks of the upland which he had discovered . 
Woodbury had the coolness of a thorough man of the world in turning aside impertinent questions , such as many good persons , with their unformed American ideas of propriety , see no harm in asking . 
It is true that he sometimes gave offence in this way , but his apparent unconsciousness of the fact healed the wound , while it prevented a repetition of the impertinence . 
With all Woodbury 's experience of woman , he had yet much to learn . 
No course could have been better chosen than the delicate and generous consideration which he exhibited towards his wife , up to a certain point . 
His mistake was , that he continued it long after the necessity had ceased , and when , to her changed nature , it suggested a conscientious sense of justice rather than the watchfulness of love . 
He was waiting for her heart to reach the knowledge which already filled it to overflowing , betraying itself daily by a subtle language which he did not understand . 
The experiences through which he had passed had familiarized him with the presence of passion in himself : his heart did not throb less powerfully , but it throbbed beneath a mask of calmness which had been sternly enforced upon him . 
He did not reflect that his wife , with all the pervading passion of the ripened woman , still possessed , in this her first love , the timidity of a girl , and could not ask for that independent speech of the heart which he withheld . 
Here , however , he had promised her full liberty of action , and she could not refer to them without a seeming doubt of his word . 
Once or twice , indeed she timidly approached the subject , but he had avoided it with a gentleness and kindness which she could not resist . 
She suffered no reproach to rest upon him , in her inmost thought ; she reproached herself for having invoked the promise -- for having obliged him to raise the thin , impalpable screen which still interposed itself between their hearts . 
The knowledge that Woodbury had modified his personal habits so as to avoid offending her prejudices , also gave her pain . 
She learned , from Carrie , that he had been in the habit of drinking a glass or two of claret at dinner , and of smoking in the library after meals , or as he read in the evenings . 
Now , the wine had disappeared from the table , and he took his cigar in the garden , or in the veranda . 
He was , perhaps , partly weaned from them , she thought , and in that case it would be wrong in her to lead him back to his old subjection ; yet , on the other hand , what sacrifice had he not made for her ? 
and what had she made for him ? 
She often repeated to herself the song of Clärchen , in Goethe 's `` Egmont , '' which was among the works her husband had read with her : One afternoon she was seized with such an intense longing for the smell of tobacco-smoke , that she could scarcely wait until Woodbury , who had ridden into Ptolemy , returned home . 
As soon as he had taken off his great-coat and kissed her , as was his wont , she drew him into the library . 
He laughed pleasantly at what he considered a benevolent effort on her part to endure his favorite indulgence . 
He placed easy-chairs for them , on opposite sides of the fire , lest her experiment might fail from being overdone , and lighted one of his choicest Cabañas . 
He took down Sir Thomas Browne , one of his favorites , and read aloud the pleasant passages . 
The snowy ashes lengthened in the cigar , the flavor of the book grew more choice and ripe , and after an hour he tossed the diminutive remaining end into the grate , saying : `` Well , what is the result ? '' 
`` I have only been acting up to my principles , '' he said , `` that we have a right to exercise our individual freedom in such matters , when they do not interfere directly with the comfort of others . 
He spoke gayly , with a dancing light in his eyes , but the plan was seriously carried out . 
`` I , for one , would not object to that , '' Woodbury answered , `` provided it could be tried without disturbing too much the established order of Society . 
`` Men do not seriously consider the subject , '' said he . 
He rose and laid away the book . 
Every word he had said was just and noble , but it was not the fervid , impassioned utterance which her heart craved to hear . 
There were tears in her eyes , but he misinterpreted them . 
Did he trust to it ? 
Did he know it , in its timidity , in its exacting fondness , in its pride of devotion and its joy of sacrifice ? 
`` You 're mistaken , Seth , '' exclaimed Mr. Merryfield , coloring with a mild indignation , `` there 's nothing of the bully about Woodbury . 
It was but a short walk to Lakeside , which they reached soon after Woodbury had taken his customary place in the library , with a cigar in his mouth and a volume of Pepys ' Diary in his hand . 
Hannah sat near him , quiet and happy : she was not only reconciled to her husband 's habit , but enjoyed the book and talk which accompanied it more than any other part of the day . 
On this occasion they were interrupted by Bute , who announced the visitors in the following style : `` Miss ' Woodbury , here 's Seth Wattles and another man has come to see you . '' 
Woodbury began talking upon general topics , to allow his guests time to recover from a slight awkwardness which was evident in their manner . 
She wished to gain time by an undecided answer , still hoping that Woodbury would come to her assistance . 
It grated rather harshly upon Woodbury 's feelings to hear his wife addressed so familiarly by the ambitious tailor ; but she was accustomed to it , from the practice of her sect to bear testimony against what they call `` compliments . '' 
`` I have not lost my interest in the cause , '' Hannah answered , after another vain attempt to read Woodbury 's face ; `` but I have freely uttered my thoughts on the subject , and I could say nothing that has not been already heard . '' 
After Woodbury had returned from the door , whither he had politely accompanied them , he said , in his usual cheerful tone : `` Well , Hannah , shall we return to Old Pepys ? '' 
She appeared perplexed and restless , but she mechanically rose and followed him into the library . 
As he took up the book , she interrupted him : `` Tell me , Maxwell , have I done right ? '' 
`` You should know , Hannah , '' he answered . 
How gladly would she have yielded to his slightest wish , if he would only speak it ! 
What a sweet comfort it would have been to her heart , to know that she had sacrificed something belonging to herself , even were it that higher duty which had almost become a portion of her conscience , for his sake ! 
The independence which he , with an over-considerate love , had assured to her , seemed to isolate her nature when it should draw nearer to his . 
His perfect justice crushed her with a cold , unyielding weight of -- not obligation , for that can not coexist with love -- but something almost as oppressive . 
Woodbury could not help noticing her agitation , but he understood neither its origin nor its nature . 
He was tender as ever , and strove to soothe her without adverting to the coming task . 
The dinner had been ordered earlier than usual , for the meeting was to commence at two o'clock ; and as soon as it was over , Woodbury said to her : `` It is time you were ready , Hannah . 
She drew him into the library . 
`` My dear wife , '' he said , `` do not torment yourself on my account . 
`` Then do not , '' he answered ; `` I will make a suitable apology for your failure . 
I will not promise , '' he added , smiling , `` to go quite so far as you might have done , but I will at least say a few earnest words which can do no harm . 
He took her in his arms , kissed her tenderly , and then drove into Ptolemy . 
She was not upon the platform , but Woodbury was seen , pressing down the crowded side-aisle , apparently endeavoring to make his way to the steps . 
He finally reached them and mounted upon the platform , where a whispered consultation took place between himself and Mr. Bemis . 
Woodbury , whose demeanor was perfectly serious and collected , in spite of a strong tendency to laugh at Seth , stepped forward to the front of the platform , and , as soon as silence returned , began to speak . 
Woodbury went on to advocate a private as well as public respect for woman ; he painted , in strong colors , those moral qualities in which she is superior to man ; urged her claim to a completer trust , a more generous confidence on his part ; and , while pronouncing no word that could indicate an actual sympathy with the peculiar rights which were the object of the meeting , demanded that they should receive , at least , a respectful consideration . 
Somehow , he had taken , in advance , all the strength out of Mr. Chubbuck 's oration ; for , although the latter commenced with an attack on Woodbury 's neutral attitude , declaring that `` we can not serve two masters , '' the effort was too sophistical to deceive anybody . 
His speech , at least , had the effect to restore Mr. Bemis to good humor . 
This was a figurative allusion to Woodbury . 
Woodbury , without having intended it , very much increased his popularity in Ptolemy by the part he had taken in the meeting . 
His address was marked by a delicate tact which enabled him to speak for Woman , on behalf of his wife , while preserving his own independence of her peculiar views . 
The men suspected that her opinions had been modified by his stronger mind , and that this was the secret of her non-appearance : they were proud that he had conquered the championess . 
The women , without exception , were delighted with his defence of their domestic rights ; most of them had had more or less experience of that misapprehension of their nature which he portrayed , and the kindness , the considerate justice which dictated his words came very gratefully to their ears . 
Even Mrs. Hamilton Bue remarked to a neighbor , at the close of his speech : `` Well , if he 's learned all that from her , she 's done somegood , after all ! '' 
Bute had bought a brownish ingrain carpet , somewhat worn , at an auction sale in Ptolemy , for a very trifling sum ; and in addition to the portraits of General and Lady Washington , which Mrs. Babb had inherited from Jason , and bequeathed to him in turn , Woodbury had given him a splendidly-colored lithograph of an `` American Homestead , '' with any quantity of cattle and poultry . 
Bute had surrounded the looking-glass and picture-frames with wreaths of winter-green , which reminded Woodbury of his impromptu ball-room in the Bowery , and in the fireplace stood a huge pitcher filled with asparagus , blossoming lilacs , and snow-balls . 
Both Woodbury and his wife delighted in the out-door occupation which these changes gave and the spring deepened into summer before they were aware . 
Woodbury 's life in Calcutta had accustomed him to seek this satisfaction in himself , or , at best , to be content with few friends . 
In Hannah , he had now the eager , sympathetic companion of his mind , no less than the partner of his affections . 
The newest literature came to him regularly from New York and Boston , and there was no delight greater than to perceive how rapidly her tastes and her intellectual perceptions matured with the increase of her opportunities of culture . 
His watchful fondness was always around her , folding her more closely and warmly , day by day ; but he still seemed to assert , in her name , that freedom which her love no longer demanded -- nay , which stood between her and the fulfilment of her ideal union with him . 
The calm , deep , and untroubled trust which filled his nature was not enough . 
Woodbury had picked up in the county paper , published at Tiberius , a little poem by Stoddard , of which these lines clung to his memory and would not be banished : Thus , as the approach of Death is not an unmingled sorrow , the approach of Life is not an unmingled joy . 
Woodbury 's strong nature was shaken to its centre , both by the horrible weight of the fears which had been growing upon him throughout the day , and the lightning-flash of overwhelming gladness which dispersed them . 
As he took the helpless , scarcely human creature in his arms , and bent his face over it , his tears fell fast . 
He knelt beside the bed , and held it before the half-closed eyes of the mother , who lay silent , pale , as if flung back , broken , from the deeps of Death . 
The unfeeling authority which reigned in the chamber drove him away . 
Woodbury , too grateful for the fact that the crisis of imminent danger was slowly passing away , contented himself with these voiceless interviews , and forcibly shut for a while within his heart the words of blessing and of cheer which he longed to utter . 
After his departure , Woodbury , glad at heart , hastened to his wife 's chamber . 
