His name was Paul Bagby . 
Paul was struck by some boyish remark I made when looking at his sketches -- its oddity tickled his fancy -- perhaps my unfeigned admiration for his productions tickled his vanity too -- and we became friends . 
He gave me lessons in drawing , and during his stay would frequently come to the shop and beg a holiday for me that I might accompany him in his sketching rambles . 
My master never refused this , for Mr. Bagby was becoming distinguished , and was patronized by the Landys family , the last fact , of course , a high recommendation to the favor of the townsfolk . 
But Bagby was not at home , having left in the morning on a sketching tour , and I turned to go elsewhere . 
The next day Paul Bagby , having heard of my adventure , called at the printing-house . 
The latter at length said to me in French : `` Monsieur Bagby seems to admire milord Landees very much . '' 
said Paul , in the same language , `` the admiration is merely gratitude for patronage , of which I have received a deal through the Landys ' interest . '' 
`` Exactly , '' replied Paul , laughing , `` I might have bought as many as forty sofas with the proceeds of Lord Landys ' direct patronage , throwing aside the sitters he has sent me ; consequently , common gratitude requires that I should admire him as much as D'Alembert did Louis XIV . '' 
Bagby translated this to the patient , who merely replied that it was unfortunate , as he desired to visit London at an early date . 
Bagby now rose to leave , and I , promising to return in a few minutes , accompanied him down stairs . 
He left , and I returned to Espinel . 
This arose from the fact that Paul Bagby , then in London , had intimated , previously to his departure , that Espinel was , or had been a monk . 
From the P. B. in the left-hand corner , I knew it to be the work of Paul Bagby . 
It was from Paul , dated at London , and these were the contents : `` Herewith you have a copy of my portrait of little Zara , whose untimely fate in being whisked away by a grim , grey-bearded ogre , you have so much lamented . 
`` Mr. Paul Bagby my lord . '' 
I see his mark . 
I might have known his style . 
I am much struck with the face and will write to Mr. Bagby on the subject . 
`` I should have thought Mr Bagby would have kept you advised of their movements . '' 
One was about the portrait that Bagby mentioned as resembling Espinel ; the other what the dowager countess meant , if there was any meaning to the words , by saying : `` The dead has not come , and the living will . '' 
It was from Paul Bagby , and read as follows : `` My dear Ambrose : -- Read this letter as carefully as you like , and then -- burn it . 
I may as well mention here that I sent Bagby the information that he required . 
The date of the marriage had , however , been written over an erasure , and so I wrote to him . 
The contents of Paul Bagby 's letter came to my mind and I could not refrain from a parting shot at random . 
`` Yes ; one I can rely on , I think , Mr. Paul Bagby . '' 
`` Well , go to him , and keep quiet . 
In all this my former intercourse with Paul Bagby enabled me to give Billy a hint or two at times , which seemed to increase his respect for me amazingly . 
As I knew that Paul Bagby used their tube colors in preference to all others , it occurred to me that he might deal there direct , so I went in and asked his address . 
I set off , and in the course of a half hour was at Paul 's studio . 
I climbed the stairs , and seeing the words , `` Mr. P. Bagby , Artist , '' on a door , knocked . 
`` I 'll tell you that , '' I answered , `` when I am quite sure this is Mr Paul Bagby , and not el Conde O'Samayer . '' 
About ten o'clock next morning I removed my scanty luggage to Paul 's apartments , and took possession of the chamber assigned to me . 
I had no more than locked up Sharp 's letter and my trinkets in one of the drawers , befor Paul called me into the studio . 
`` Ambrose , '' said Paul , `` I wish to present you to the Duke of Sillingbourne . 
`` I am glad to meet you , young gentleman , '' said his grace . 
`` I may as well mention that it is not merely your singular history , which Mr. Bagby has confidentially mentioned , which interests me ; but the acquirements which he tells me that you possess , and your general character . '' 
`` I have had my Œdipus at work on your riddle , '' said Paul . 
`` Quite impossible , I should say , '' answered Paul . 
As we were going down stairs , I said apart to Paul : `` Do you know that I have been thinking a deal about the old Countess noticing my ear . '' 
I had great confidence in Paul 's judgment , but I weighed all these little things in my mind a great deal . 
With a triple air , compounded of deference to the Duke , courtesy to Paul , and graciousness to me , she engaged us in conversation while Zara was summoned from the school-room . 
Presently the door opened -- Zara made her appearance , hesitated at the sight of a stranger , and then advancing , laid her hands in those of the duke and Paul . 
`` You do n't recognize old friends , Zara , '' said Paul , smiling . 
`` Come , Mr. Bagby , ' , said the Duke , `` we will leave these youngsters to talk awhile . 
Miss Myrtle was only too much delighted to oblige his grace , and so Zara and myself were left together . 
We could scarcely believe our hour had passed when the Duke and Miss Myrtle , followed by Paul , returned . 
`` Now , Zara , '' said his grace , `` I have made arrangements with Miss Myrtle , by which Ambrose will spend an hour with you on every Saturday afternoon ; and you must continue to be a good girl as Miss Myrtle says you have been hitherto . '' 
The greater part of my time was spent with Paul Bagby , in whose charge my papers and trinkets remained , with the exception of hours devoted to my favorite study , and the pleasant ones passed with Zara on the afternoon of each Saturday . 
In despite of the privacy of life sought by the Duke , his grace had numerous visitors . 
Paul pointed out to me the chance that this speaking acquaintanceship with distinguished personages might turn to account at some time . 
Among Paul 's many acquaintances I found some who , without being entirely congenial , attracted me . 
Paul , at first , was rather uneasy at my taking so kindly to these roistering fellows ; but he possibly reflected that I had no inclination to semi-vagabondism , that I drank but sparingly , and had the habits of quiet life , for he soon ceased to trouble me with advice about my companionship . 
One afternoon I had been dawdling about the studios of several artists , and wound up by a visit to Paul 's apartments . 
The first thing that I noticed there was a sketch in oil , which I knew was not in Paul 's style . 
said Paul , as he caught my eye , `` you ca n't possibly wonder more than I do . '' 
asked Paul , as we were going homeward . 
`` Do you know , Ambrose , '' resumed Paul , after we had walked some distance further in silence , `` I think I have seen this Herr Diemer somewhere before . '' 
I could learn nothing at my various visits , for I called on him frequently during evenings , but I patiently waited . 
Policemen were at once sent to the asylum , and messengers despatched to seek the Duke , the Spanish minister , and Paul Bagby . 
The messengers from our friends returned , followed by Paul Bagby , and an attache of the Spanish legation . 
A consultation followed about the course proper for us to pursue under the circumstances , and at this none were present beside the Duke , Espinel , Paul and myself . 
`` Of course , '' echoed Paul and the Count . 
`` It is the only mode , '' agreed Bagby . 
His grace shook his head . 
`` The man is worse than I thought him , '' he said ; `` much worse ; but dastardly as his conduct has been , it will never do to make it public . '' 
`` Allow me , '' said Paul , `` to talk to Ambrose apart . '' 
He took me to a recess , and continued : `` Do you believe me when I pledge my honor to the truth of a statement ? '' 
suggested Paul . 
`` The same reasons , '' said Paul , `` which I gave you a few moments since will apply here . '' 
inquired Paul . 
`` There is another mystery about Ambrose , '' gaily said Paul , `` which is more puzzling than all the rest . 
`` For ten pounds , I suppose , '' said Paul . 
He is a singular being , I admit , but a different man , and a far more liberal man than Mr. Bagby believes . '' 
`` Oh , I believe anything , '' cried Paul , laughing . 
`` After the way in which you seem to manage him , I can doubt no more . '' 
It was settled that I was to call on Zara the next day to bid her farewell , and as Paul was well acquainted with the junior partner of the house to which Sharp 's letter was directed , he was to go with me first to make them sure I was really the Ambrose Fecit named . 
The next morning Paul and I were driven into the city . 
On my way to see Zara , Paul was full of this affair , which astonished him , and declared that either Sharp was John Howard re-born , or that I was undoubtedly the Emperor of China , and Sharp my Chancellor of the Exchequer . 
I bade the Duke farewell , and hurried down with Paul , after having provided myself a hasty , though complete outfit . 
On our arrival there , Paul found his friend and patron , Mr. Archbold , among the passengers , and introduced me to him not only by my traveling name , but confidentially by my own . 
The manner of the American pleased me very much , and I could see that he was fond of Paul , and would take to me warmly on his account . 
My voyage promised , therefore , to be a pleasant one , and though I regretted parting with my friends , yet I was young , the world was before me , I was going to see a strange country , and I parted with Paul with rather an exuberance of spirits than otherwise . 
At night , my thoughts went back to Paul and Zara , and things of the past . 
I determined , however , to let Paul know it , and wrote a letter to be sent to him either by the first vessel that crossed us , or on my arrival at New York . 
I heard occasionally from Paul , but he gave me nothing of importance ; and received one letter from Sharp , barren of all details about affairs in Puttenham . 
One day , about ten months after I had been in the printing office , and toward the latter part of February , McManus invited me to visit his lodgings that evening . 
`` The old woman , '' said he , meaning by that term his young wife , `` gives a tea-fight to-night , and there will be lots of calico on hand . 
`` You 're the man for the crisis , '' he said ; `` but , nota bena , you 'd better oil your shanks , and put a solid inch of injy-rubber on your boot-soles , for some of the girls are terrible dancers , and if you do n't take care you 'll come away with two short stumps sticking to your body . '' 
I promised to use proper precautions to prevent the abbreviation of my legs , and taking his address , went home when we were through work , to get ready . 
He had named seven o'clock , but I thought it better to be late than too early , so I did not start until eight . 
He lived in Sullivan street , occupying the first floor of a house , the basement of which was used as a corner-grocery -- that is , a shop where they sell sugar , tea , salted meats , vegetables , coals , beer and whiskey , in short , any thing that can be taken , drank or consumed about the household . 
My exile had grown irksome , and I was desirous to terminate it ; but Paul , to whom I had written on the subject , advised me to remain for the present where I was . 
The Earl of Landys still vibrated between his country residence and London ; Mr. Osborne lorded it over the castle as usual ; no farther attempt had been made against Espinel , who had gone to Spain ; and Zara , who was under the joint guardianship of the Duke and Paul , always desired to be remembered to me , and was growing into a fine woman . 
Capt. Berkely , promoted to a majority , had been ordered to India shortly after my departure , and had distinguished himself in a difficulty with the Affghans , when he was by seniority the commanding officer of a division which had been attacked by the enemy ; and Paul himself , as I judged more from the newspapers he had sent me than by his letters , was growing in reputation as an artist Once , too , he hinted at his forthcoming marriage , but did not name the lady . 
Sharp wrote me occasionally , but he gave me no news , confining himself to advice , and minute inquires as to my doings . 
I wrote at once to both Sharp and Paul an account of my good fortune , and was in a state of bewildered delight for some time . 
The arrival of the steamer at Liverpool having been telegraphed , Paul Bagby came down by mail to meet me . 
`` My wife is with me , '' said he , `` and is quite anxious to see you again . '' 
`` Come and see . 
Paul had met her while on a visit to Staffordshire ; my name had accidentally come up , and finding Paul was my intimate friend , conversation about me ended in an intimacy , intimacy came to love , and love culminated into marriage . 
said I , to Paul , `` here 's another mystery . 
`` The Honorable Mrs. Leigh , '' answered Bagby . 
I ran down to Puttenham the following week , in company with Paul , and met with a warm welcome . 
The next day I returned to London , and by Paul 's invitation took up my temporary abode at his house . 
It was pleasunt to look on that fair face , and sun myself in that smile . 
Three days before the time fixed for the hearing of the case , I received a telegraphic message from Paul Bagby , who was in Puttenham , aiding the lawyers in preliminary business , or rather perhaps indulging in his anxiety in at tempts to be useful . 
I booked my seat in the train -- there was a railway now to Puttenham -- and started to inform my friends of my intended absence . 
Bagby met us at the Puttenham station . 
Can you bear good fortune well ? '' 
Sharp , with the exception of a trifling legacy to me , has bequeathed you his entire fortune . '' 
The burial of Sharp followed , and after qualifying along with Bagby , as joint executors of the will , the lawyer , Mr. Blodgett , desired to have a conversation with me . 
I went at once to the hotel where Bagby was lodging , and where he had taken apartments for Espinel and Zara . 
I found the whole party in earnest conference . 
That he should have invited the Count and Zara , Sir Charles and Lady Berkely , was not to be wondered at ; that he should have tolerated Paul Bagy was not astonishing , since Paul was of an old family ; but to ask a parvenu like me , and a tradesman like Guttenberg , to his table , was so extraordinary that no ordinary motives could have prompted it . 
