Look you , Cappin Watkins , there 's not a man hyar that do n't know you to be the lyingest person that ever stept in shoeleather ; and , jest knowing you as I do , I know its no more use to be making a bargain with you , or taking a promise from your mouth , than ef 't was the old devil himself that was a-speaking , and now , jest to ease my heart of what I 've got in it , I 'll tell the men here , loud enough for the hardest hearing to onderstand , that if my sister Nelly had only listened to your imperdent speeches , and had n't slapped your chops while you was a making 'em -- she and I mightha ' got the whole of the portmanteau of the squad , and I 'd never heard a word of the gold watch that she got , and I 'd never ha ' been in the present fix ! 
Her sister , Nelly or Ellen Floyd , otherwise `` HarricaneNell , '' was a creature of different stuff -- quite an anomaly , in fact . 
Such is Nelly Floyd -- `` Harricane Nell '' -- to the eye , as she half sits , half reclines , against a tree , a few paces from the fire of the camp . 
`` Why do you not come up and eat , Nelly ? '' 
`` You 're too proud , Nelly Floyd , for your own family , '' said her sister , Mrs. Rhodes , junior . 
`` Nelly 's not to be laughed at . 
Nelly never lies ! '' 
Meanwhile , Nelly Floyd , aliasHarricane Nell , was speeding on horseback -- riding a-straddle like a man -- across the country , and in the direction of the Edisto . 
`` And why do you suppose they 'll brush after us at all , '' demanded old Rhodes , who had asserted the same thing himself in dealing with Nelly . 
His supper had been saved for him . 
he demanded , after he had begun to eat . 
Nelly always speaks the truth . 
`` Nelly was right ! 
But Nelly was right for another reason , and she show 'd me all about it aforehand . 
Ef I hev ' to fight to-morrow I must sleep now ; but I do say , when you driv ' off Nelly Floyd , you driv ' off the best head -- light and foolish as you think it -- and the blessedest creature that we ever had among us . 
It is probable , indeed , that with Nelly Floyd beside , to strengthen him in a good resolve , he would have maintained it -- for the time . 
And Nelly Floyd -- Harricane Nell -- what is the course which she takes , on leaving the party of outlaws , with whom , it appears , she could so little assimilate ? 
If the most singular fearlessness of character , a masculine decision , an intense will , and an impulse that always declared itself without restraint -- if these qualities were , in any way , characteristic of insanity , Nelly Floyd was certainly the mad creature whom her associates believed or asserted her to be . 
Nelly was not a mere woman -- not , certainly , an ordinary one ; she did not act as is the common mode with her sex . 
Nelly Floyd 's infirmity was that of the Arab . 
And the little beast of Nelly Floyd , insignificant in size , and not very comely of outline , had yet some characteristics of the descent . 
He was fleet , hardy , never to be tired down , and fed on weeds , wild grasses , the cane-top , anything -- without showing any dissatisfaction with the owner who could make no better provision for his wants . 
Very free yet very docile , it needed but a word of Nelly to send him forward -- to restrain his motion -- and , when absent , to call him to her side . 
She had plaited his mane , as you see them plait the hair of little girls in heavy links , which hung down , parted equally on both sides of his neck . 
She loved to pat and talk with the animal , and it loved to be patted and to listen ; and the two friends so grew together , that neither was quite satisfied when the other was out of sight . 
And these fondnesses bestowed upon her steed , were among the many proofs which she gave to those about her , of an idle brain , or a deficient wit . 
But our Nelly was yet perpetually affording other proofs to those around her of this witless mind , this eccentric will , this dangerous infirmity of brain and blood . 
But Nelly had contrived , when Rhodes and his party were pursued by Watkins , to get possession , and to conceal from their search , the whole of that treasure which was the bone of struggle between the two parties . 
It was in the utterance of pretensions such as these , that Nelly Floyd still more certainly won for herself the imputation of insanity . 
There were other proofs of insanity which Nelly Floyd continually gave to her associates . 
But Nelly Floyd did not speak as one who dealt in the inductive processes . 
He was too weak , with such a training as he had had , to be honest or resolved ; and he , too , after a while , was fain to admit , even against his own instincts , that Nelly Floyd was a half-crazy woman . 
His real feelings taught him otherwise . 
He felther superiority ; but his conscience needed that he should declare her witless , the better to escape her censures , which he could never otherwise answer . 
The reiterated expressions of all about her had , at length , the effect of forcing upon poor Nelly herself the question of her own sanity . 
Can you conceive its effect upon such a creature as I have described Nelly Floyd to be -- warm , affectionate , enthusiastic , eager , impulsive -- having no conventional resources -- aloof , as it were , from all society -- forced to commune only with those whom she must despise -- educated in tastes , habits , feelings , and associations , all superior to and accordingly inconsistent with her destinies in life -- a just heart , a pure mind , exquisite tastes -- a subtle fancy , a wild impulse , an extraordinary and masculine will , and an intensity of mood which wrought upon all her faculties , so that all , in turn , seemed qualities of fire -- seemed to glow , to burn , to elevate -- and thus wore perpetually upon the mere physique , so that she ate but little -- scarcely seemed to feel the want of food -- scarcely knew limit to her physical exertion -- rode , ran , rambled , apparently without fatigue , and seemed to rest only when in motion ! 
Nelly Floyd rode on , burying herself more deeply in the forest than before , yet pursuing , all the while , a little Indian trail , with which her pony seems quite familiar . 
She gave him the reins , and never seemed to regulate or heed his progress , until he brought her to a little low worm fence , deep in the woods , surrounding a small log cottage . 
Nelly cantered round the house to its rear -- took off a small sack which she had carried before her -- took off saddle and bridle , then dismissed the horse , in so many words , as if he understood every syllable : -- `` Go now , Aggy , until I want you in the morning . '' 
And she patted neck and head , and sent the beast off with a gentle slap , which he seemed to take as a further proof of affection : for he lifted his ears and head , rubbed his nose against her cheek , and , with a lively whinny , scampered off into the well-known thickets . 
It 's Nelly Floyd . '' 
`` Ah , Nelly , I had a-most given you up , '' was the salutation of Mother Ford , within , as she undid the fastenings of the door . 
`` Why what do you laugh at so , Nelly ? 
`` Why , what would he say , Nelly , and why do you call him poorMat ? '' 
Stay a bit , Nelly . '' 
`` No , Nelly , it 's jest as easy for me . '' 
But Nelly had already performed the task . 
While Nelly Floyd was flinging the brands upon the fire , the old woman smoothed out her apron -- white homespun over a blue homespun frock -- seated herself in a well-worn rocking-chair , of domestic manufacture -- a rude oaken frame , the seat of which , a tightly stretched ox-hide , still showed some of the hairs , unworn , along the edges . 
Here , while Nelly Floyd poured forth her griefs , Mother Ford commenced a see-sawing motion , which we have frequently observed to be a process among ancient ladies , for bringing the mind to bear , with proper efficiency , on some troublesome domestic problem . 
She suffered Nelly to get through the whole story of her griefs . 
Then , after a pause : -- `` I 'd be most mighty sorry , Nelly , ef Mat Floyd should come to such harm as you speak of ; though that 's always a danger from the sort of company he keeps . 
I dandled the boy upon these knees when he was a baby in the lap ; and I loved his and your own poor mother , as ef she was my own sister . 
She 's an angel now in heaven , Nelly . '' 
But he took warning by her temper ; and when he looked out for another wife , he got an angel -- a little too much of an angel -- though I say it of your own father , Nelly , yet I have to say it -- a lettle too much of an angel for him . 
He never knowd her valley , child , till he lost her ; and then his conscience troubled him , as he told me himself , for the hard words -- ay , Nelly , and the hard blows -- that he gave her . '' 
`` He did n't strike her , mother ? 
`` It 's a sad truth , Nelly , but he did ! 
But he was mighty repentant . 
And he took on mightily after she was gone . 
Well , you see your father got employment with him , and worked faithful ; and the landgrave took a liking to him ; and he let on to the landgrave about you two children ; and , I reckon , did paint you both up mighty fine -- you in preticklar -- for old Mat did think a mighty great deal of you , Nelly , and said you was smart as a flash and jest as bright . 
But it 's nateral enough for a father to think so of his own child , and the young one too ; and so , the old landgrave 's wife -- a mighty fine lady as ever I see -- she thought it a nice thing to get you to be a company for her own darter -- a good-natured child , and full of play -- '' `` Dear Bettie , '' murmured Nelly , while a big round tear kept swelling and swelling in her eye till it almost blinded her . 
It was a hard pull upon my feelings , Nelly , to make me give you up ; and I cried bitter , I tell you , when I seed the coach driving off ; but I reasoned it out , and I give in ; but 't was bitter , bitter , that day , Nelly , my child , for you had got to be like my own ; and ef I had n't a-thought it for your good , Nelly , no landgrave woman in the world should have had you ! 
`` Yes , I 'm not a gainsaying that , Nelly , my child . 
But what made her send you off , Nelly , when she had raised you to be one of her own family , and made you l'arned in books , and full of the onderstanding of strange things that do n't suit the poor people of our country ? '' 
They had to leave the state , mother , when the Revolution broke out , for the landgrave would n't favor the patriots , and take up arms against his king -- '' `` More fool he ! 
The more 's the pity , Nelly . 
Ah , Nelly , ef I had husband or son , I 'd have 'em fighting now , under the Swamp-Fox or the Game-Cock ; and it did vex me to the heart to find that Mat Floyd had gone out , at the instigation of that old villain Rhodes , and j' ined himself to the inimy . 
I 'm afraid , Nelly , you had something to do with that . '' 
`` And what made you speak for the British side , Nelly ? 
`` You were a foolish child , Nelly . 
It was a great mistake , Nelly , and I 'd give a good deal ef I could make Mat break off from the Flurrida riffigees , and j' ine himself to one of our parties -- Marion or Sumter , I do n't care which -- and make himself a free white man agin , having the right onderstanding that freedom means the right to stand up agin the world , in defence of one 's own sile . '' 
`` Oh , mother , if I could get him away from all fighting -- '' `` But you kaint hope for that , Nelly , so long as there 's an inimy in the land . 
`` Hev ' you seen them signs agin , Nelly ? '' 
`` It 's an awful , fearsome gift you hev ' , Nelly , and it 's but right that you should pray , all the time , to the great Lord that rules above in heaven , to spare your sight from such dreadful seeings . 
But , a ` ter all , Nelly , it mout be only a sort of dreaming , perhaps ? '' 
There 's a sort of waking , Nelly , that 's very much like dreaming -- when the eyes may be open , maybe , but when the sight 's looking innard , upon the troublesome thoughts that 's a-working in the brain . 
Now , Nelly , all your thoughts and feelin 's work more lively and active than with most other people . 
That 's the strangeness of it , Nelly . '' 
`` Why , Nelly , child , what 's put all this nonsense-stuff in your head ? '' 
do n't speak to me of Mat , and what he thinks , Nelly . 
If he had anything in his own skull that a gimlet-bore could git at , would he be sich a fool as to follow the track of sich a raspscallion as Jeff Rhodes ? 
-- for she 's jest that ; and , as for poor Mat -- it 's no use talking , Nelly , the boy 's foolish , and hai n't got sense enough to stick to a right idee . 
I 'm sorry for him . 
I do n't quarrel with him . 
I love the boy , for I helped to raise him ; but he 's been pervarted from all my raising ; and now the chance is , that he 's in a fair road for all them horrid dangers that you see . 
You 're not so mad as the sensiblest among them ; and you 've got more true human-natur sense , Nelly , than half the people that I knows . 
To do good ; to love them that spitefully uses you ; to try always to make things better for people , and people better for things ; and to go through the world planting fruits and flowers along the track , and pulling up the thorns : and that , Nelly dear , is jest the thing -- ` cording to what I sees -- that you 've been a-doing , ever sence you was knee-high . 
And it 's in you , Nelly , to be doing so as long as you kin go . 
The old woman continued : -- `` One thing , Nelly dear -- it 's sart ` in you 're a very different person from most of them you hev ' to do with . 
And , then , you are strange , besides , in your natur ' , Nelly ; and that 's bekaise you 've got strange gifts , Nelly . 
I ai n't the person to deny the gifts that you 've got , Nelly ; and though , sometimes , it does seem to me as ef you was a-dreaming of what you tells me -- of what you see -- of sperrits and angels -- yet I would be a most impudent old fool to be saying ` twa n't so . 
But my mother had a gift like yourn , Nelly . '' 
I remember another mighty strange thing , Nelly , that happened to mother when I was a child , not more than nine years old . 
And that was a fact , Nelly , knowin ' to my own self . 
When they had been but a few minutes in bed -- they slept together -- Nelly said , somewhat abruptly : -- `` Mother Ford , I once saw my own mother . '' 
He looked to me like an angel , mother , though he had no wings ; yet he was lifted up in air , just over the body , and above the bushes where the body was lying , and Jeff Rhodes was then taking away all the money that the man had about him . '' 
No doubt , Nelly , Jeff Rhodes did a cruel murder that day , but 't was a man , not an angel , Nelly , that he murdered . 
He called you crazy , child , because you said an angel . 
But I reckon he feels well enough that you are knowing to his murder of the man ; and sooner than you should tell of it , Nelly , he will murder you . 
So keep away from him , child . 
He 'll be the death of you , if he can get a chance to do it and no one see . 
So , as you valley your life do n't go among his gang agin . '' 
`` Nelly , my child , it 's not in you , or any of the gifts you 've got , to git that poor boy out of their clutches . 
In a leetle time , Nelly dear , he wo n't listen to you at all . 
The greedy after gould , and the thirsty after blood 's , both growing upon him , and in Jeff Rhodes 's hands , he 'll be mighty soon jist sich a scholerd as his master . 
tell me nothing , Nelly Floyd , of Mat Floyd . 
`` It 's the thing working in your mind , Nelly dear ; I reckon it was a dream first time you saw it , and a ` terward it worked in your brain , till the vision seemed to rise before your sight , just as you had seen it in your dreams . 
It 's in your brain , Nelly dear , that the thing is working . 
It comes from too much thinking upon it , Nelly , and -- '' `` I do n't know , mother -- I do n't know ! 
You kai n't go to his camp , Nelly . '' 
But , Nelly , child , ef you air to go to Jeff Rhodes 's camp , see that he never knows of it . 
The bacon and hoecake would set as light upon her stomach , Nelly , though she made a supper-table of your coffin , as it ever did at any supper in her life . 
But Nelly Floyd slept on -- softly and it might be sweetly -- but the grandame every now and then detected a faint moaning escaping through her parted lips , as of a sorrow that still kept wakeful -- such a moaning as lapses over the sea after a storm ! 
Withdawn , as we have said , good Mother Ford was stirring , but Nelly slept on till after sunrise ; then she waked , started up , made her toilet hastily , said her prayers , and joined the old woman cheerfully at the duties of the little household . 
During the day Nelly worked and weeded in the garden , or took a turn at spinning-wheel or loom , and wrought industriously , if not as dextrously as she might have done had her book-learning been less . 
Another day of household work followed -- another night of dreamy discourse and revery ; and then the wild Arab restlessness of Nelly Floyd prevailed . 
When Nelly declared her purpose to go forth , Mother Ford , though regretting the determination , did not argue against it . 
Nelly Floyd was quite a woodman , and knew `` how to work a traverse '' with any scout in the two armies . 
But , ever and anon , Nelly wound up hermeditations with the one burden of her individual fear . 
`` Well , ef he 's with Jeff Rhodes , Nelly , you may be sure he ai n't in the ranks of the red-coats or the blue . 
Why , Nelly , that 's every human man 's danger -- what every child that 's born has to ondergo ; and the question is about the wayone dies -- whether he dies decently , like a human Christian , doing open , broad-daylight actions , that he ai n't ashamed or afraid of , or dying in a ditch , like a hog , or in the halter , like a dog ! 
It 's the difference in the dying , a ` ter all , Nelly , that makes the danger . 
Ef I had a son , I 'd see him carried to the grave without so much as whimpering , ef so be his cappin could say -- ` Mother Ford , your boy did his duty , like a free-born white man , and took his wounds all of 'em in front , fighting for his country 's sile ! ' 
Oh , Nelly , I 'd ha ' gone on my knees to Mat , onnateral as ` twould be for an old woman like me to crook a j' int to a boy like that , ef so be I could ha ' got him to j' ine Thompson 's rigiment , when they was a-recruiting about here in the beginning of the war . 
But never mind the work : jest you stay with the old woman , Nelly ; and let them that wo n't stay to hear the prayers of sister and friend , go where -- the Lord will provide as he pleases ! 
Nelly shook her head mournfully . 
But -- sure enough , Nelly , I do hear . '' 
`` For what , Nelly ? 
That would be a needcessity , prehaps , in Jeff Rhodes 's camp ; but here , Nelly , look at the plunder that 's to be had -- to say nothing of the old woman 's curses , kivered up in prayers ! 
quoth the old woman , sotto voce , to Nelly . 
The two officers readily took the seats indicated , one of them waving his hand to the two privates who had followed them into the house , who took the hint , and immediately withdrew . 
We are in possession of facts of which neither Mother Ford nor Nelly Floyd had any knowledge , and their mutual wonder soon satisfied the visiters that their inquiry was vain in this quarter . 
`` They 're the true sons of the sile , Nelly . 
Nelly , if that foolish brother of your ` n , was only in that squad , under them officers ! 
Then , it mout be that he would be in danger of death , but there would n't be any shame in it , Nelly . '' 
Poor Nelly sighed pitifully . 
It 's mighty curious too , Nelly , that they should hev ' disappeared jest about Rhodes 's mill -- below it , he said , about a mile or so ! 
Why , Nelly , that was jest about the place where old Rhodes had hiscamp , a ` ter you got Mat out of Lem Watkins ' claws . '' 
Well , old Rhodes saw it all , Nelly . '' 
Nelly admitted the probability . 
`` And he 's carried off the carriage and the two poor ladies , all for plundering ; and , oh ! 
Git the good book , Nelly , and read me something from its blessed pages . '' 
Let 's pray now , Nelly . 
-- But Nelly 's meditations had not changed her purpose . 
It was from Nelly 's graphic portraiture , indeed , that Mat had received his most vivid impressions of the terrors which Fate had for him in store . 
He witnessed a portion of the fray , which , at one time , promised to involve the whole army ; made his escape to the river swamp , with the spectacle of the hanging man continually passing before the eyes of his mind ; and was thus painfully reminded of the predictions of Nelly Floyd in respect to his own fate . 
He brought away with him , however , a bottle of Dill 's Jamaica , the gift of that liberal companion , whom he left in the swamp , whither he had fled , also , with a reasonable fear that some of the mutineers might be ungrateful enough to reveal , to the British officers , the source from which they obtained the virtuous liquor which had made them so vicious . 
Once more he beheld the hanging man struggling in his death agonies ; and he recalled the fearful prediction of Nelly Floyd . 
His disquiet became so great that he nervously swallowed another mouthful from the bottle , while his reflections declared themselves in open soliloquy . 
Nelly said she seed me all black in the face . 
`` And I 'm to hang , Nelly says ! 
Here he took another taste of the Jamaica , by way of asserting his courage , and confirming it . 
`` But I knows what Nelly 's after . 
But it ca n't be did , Nelly . 
Here he pulled a leather purse from his pocket , jingled it , and poured out the contents , some half dozen guineas , the fruit of the recent spoliation of Mrs. Travis , into his hands . 
Nelly , the business pays too well . 
What did Nelly tell me about the rope for ? 
How these fool gals do talk ; and Nelly 's mad -- that 's sartin . 
Poor Nelly -- mad or not -- she 's a good gal , and loves me . 
I 'm not so skeery , Nelly ! '' 
And another sup of the Jamaica restored him to all his confidence , and he stumbled up from the ground , caught his horse which had been grazing contentedly along the grassy slopes , and proceeded to mount , which he did with such an effort as nearly to achieve that result of excessive ambition , which , as Shakspere tells us -- -- `` o'erleaps itself , And falls on t ` other side ! '' 
The laugh of Nelly Floyd herself reassured him ; and the next moment , riding up , she exclaimed -- `` Why , Mat , what sort of weapon is that which you carry ? '' 
It was only when this question was asked him , that he became conscious that , instead of a pistol , he had grasped by the neck , and presented at the supposed enemy , the bulky butt of his Jamaica bottle ! 
The fellow was not too drunk or stupid not to feel his face flush with shame at the revelation he had made ; and it did n't need his words -- `` Why , Nelly , gal , how you skeer 'd me ! '' 
-- to make her comprehend his half-besotted condition . 
She had never seen him thus before . 
By -- , Nelly , ef any manhad called me drunk , I 'd ha ' been into him with a bloody spur ! '' 
`` Look you , Nelly , Jeff Rhodes ai n't my master , to bring me to anything I do n't like . '' 
you 're talking of the time when I was a boy , Nelly . '' 
Do n't say it agin , Nelly ! 
I 've jest been keeping my sperrits up , Nelly . 
`` Yes , but ` twa 'n' t me , Nelly , gal ; 't was a young Irishman . 
`` True , by blazes , Nelly ! '' 
With a hoarse , muddled laugh , the poor wretch cried out : -- `` Oh , you reckon you 've done great things , Nelly , but there ai n't a drop left , not a drop ! 
`` Oh , none of that , no more , Nelly ! 
`` And that reminds me , Nelly , of the swamp -- old Cawcaw ! 
I 'm doing a better business now , Nelly -- gitting the real gould guineas by the handful , Nelly -- by the handful ! '' 
`` Look you , Nelly , do n't go too fur , or I 'll be apt to hit you a clip . 
It 's the devil -- the old devil himself -- that tells you everything , Nelly ! '' 
`` Oh , git out , Nelly ! 
You talks , Nelly , as ef I was a born and blasted coward . 
Good-by , Nelly -- you 're a good gal , but mighty foolish . '' 
He put his finger to his eye , with maudlin cunning -- as he said : -- `` You 're mighty smart , Nelly , but do n't know nothing , no how . 
`` Mat , my brother -- '' `` ` Nough now , Nelly . '' 
The half-witted wretch seemed a little ashamed , and cried : -- `` I would n't hurt you , Nelly , you knows ; but you mus n't provocate me , and no more , do you hear , about that bloody gallows . 
`` Lord , '' said he , `` I felt as ef I was the man that was hitched up , and ` twor n't ontil I was safe buried in the swamp , that I could git easy about that wision of poor Nelly ; and when , suddently , she come a-riding out of the woods upon me this morning , I thought it was a whole troop of the red-coats in chase . 
And she know 'd all about the mutineering and hanging in Orangeburg -- same as ef she 'd seen it ; and she tells me she seed that same wision about my hanging more than once sence . '' 
`` But Nelly do n't know nothing about the place . 
Nelly is as good a scout as any in the British army , and she 's got a heart as bold as any dragoon in both armies . 
It required but a single glance to satisfy Rhodes that the beast was that of Nelly Floyd -- her favorite pony Aggy . 
And now , Miss Harricane Nelly , we 'll see and settle your accounts by short reckoning , ef the devil ai n't more on your side of the house than on ours . '' 
`` You old villain , did you mean to murder Nelly ? '' 
Nelly , airyou hurt ? '' 
`` Look you , Nelly , '' said the brother , `` this wo n't do . 
I swear , Nelly -- '' `` Oh ! 
No more of that , Nelly -- you kai n't skear me , gal . 
Only a moment , '' said Nelly ; and she drew the wretched youth some twenty paces apart , and said to him , in low tones : -- `` Give me your knife , Mat . '' 
He only meant to give you a bad skear , and you know , Nelly , 't was not the right thing for you to come here , a-spying out our secrets . '' 
He did so , but hesitatingly . 
`` Why , how the diccance , Nelly , does you find out these things ? 
It is his purpose to get you back to the gaming-table , to leave you there again , and to take the woods upon me . 
Go with him to the gaming-table -- play , if you will -- but drink nothing . 
Let him uspect nothing . 
Only watch him . 
If he leaves you at the table , you may know what he 's after . 
Follow him . 
He knows hat I will have to sleep in the woods . 
His purpose now is to find my sleeping-place . '' 
He will make you drunk -- get you off on some pretext , and when you return and ask for me , you will be told some wretched story of my getting off . 
Nelly , ' t do n't look so . 
Fact is , Nelly , I was a little overkim with the Jamaica this morning . 
`` That 's jest where I do n't want to go , Nelly . '' 
And they adjourned to the cabin ; poor Nelly , meanwhile , gliding through the woods to her pony , which she mounted and rode away , without heeding the growls of Rhodes 's dog , keeping watch over that old sinner 's cap . 
Poor Nelly had no knowledge of this beautiful chant of one of our best native poets ; but she felt with him , and the great natural temple in which she proposed to trust herself with God , always raised her devotional enthusiasm . 
The old man ledhis horse into the thicket , and had reached the place where Nelly 's pony had been haltered , when Mat put his hand on his shoulder . 
`` You see I left it here , Mattie , when the dog started at Nelly 's horse . '' 
Ef any harm comes to Nelly Floyd , by your hands , or your contrivings , I 'll dig your heart out of your very buzzom . '' 
And Nelly Floyd slept the while , as if the starlight were to last for ever . 
An hour after they had gone , Nelly Floyd found her way to the place of harborage , found her sister Molly only , and the woman who kept house . 
And so , poor Nelly was once more on a wide sea of conjecture , but still resolute to seek , in the hope to find and aid . 
But Nelly Floyd was not the girl to wait long in uncertainty . 
Nelly took the road downward , governed , it would seem , by a mere instinct . 
Better be off , Nelly , and do n't meddle any more in our consarns . 
`` Well , ef they ai n't , what kin you do for them , Nelly ? '' 
`` What makes you talk of that , Nelly ? '' 
`` It matters not now , '' said Nelly . 
`` Hark ye , Nelly Floyd , ef you ai n't off from us now in a twink , I 'll lace your hide with a hickory , brother or no brother . '' 
But be off , Nelly , you 've no business here , I tell you . '' 
And as he gave the order , old Rhodes darted round to the side of the carriage where Nelly was . 
There was a moment of hesitation in old Rhodes 's countenance ; he seemed to be considering the question of odds between himself and young Floyd , who , while resolute to protect his sister , yet appeared to be very angry at her appearance and interference . 
As for you , d -- n you , '' roared the old ruffian to Nelly , as he wheeled to fly with the rest , `` you shall have your pay for the mischief you 've done ; '' and even as he fled , before his purpose could be conceived , he discharged his pistol full at the head of Nelly Floyd , and at a distance of less than eight paces . 
As Nelly had promised him , he had equally escaped rope and bullet . 
He was engaged in examining the hurt of Nelly , which was in the shoulder , when she opened her eyes to consciousness . 
Nelly would have resisted the efforts to place her in the carriage , if she could . 
said the mother , glancing to Nelly . 
The quick ears of Nelly heard the warning . 
The ladies sat beside Nelly , and she took the hands of Bertha , and looked up into her face , smiled archly -- so Bertha thought -- and murmured a few syllables of thanks . 
to Nelly . 
Nelly smiled , as she whispered -- `` Yes ; but I must not tell . '' 
Nelly did know -- possibly by guess only ; but it was quite sufficient for the simple truthful nature of the girl , that the parties most interested in the secret , were desirous that it should remain so . 
After resting awhile , Nelly was able to retire with Carrie to her chamber , where the two soon became intimate ; the latter being surprised and interested with every moment 's increased knowledge of the curious stranger . 
That she made our poor Nelly comfortably at home , we may take for granted -- that she made her quite easy in mind was impossible . 
Nelly could not subdue her fears for Mat . 
She knew nothing of his fate . 
So , leaving Nelly to the companionship of little Lottie , she descended to her duties . 
At length , he found the traces of the blood from poor Nelly 's shoulder . 
Carrie Sinclair , not less excited , darted into the supper-room to her father ; and to the surprise of both , Nelly Floyd , in her night-dress , made her appearance among them , descending from her chamber ! 
Meanwhile , Carrie Sinclair and Nelly Floyd retired to the upper chambers , and for awhile , our baron sat in solitary state , waiting anxiously for his returning guests . 
`` Do not weep , '' said Nelly Floyd to her , as they sat together in Carrie Sinclair 's chamber . 
Carrie looked long and musingly in the face of this strange , sad counsellor -- that brown face , that large , dilating Arab eye , humid , yet so big and bright ; that exquisitely-turned and expressive mouth , that grave , spiritual countenance -- she looked and wondered , and as she mused , and spoke : -- `` Nelly , it was a great wrong done to you by the lady who took and kept you so long , and trained you so long and so well -- it was a great wrong for her to abandon you as she did . '' 
Carrie looked at her and mused , then said frankly : -- `` I see , I feel , that you are truthful , Nelly . 
`` And how do you know all this , Nelly ? '' 
I saw it all last night ; and the voice spoke to me , and told me I must go and bring him away from those bad companions who would lead him into worse danger . 
But as she gazed on poor Nelly with her ingenuous face , she smiled to herself at the absurdity of ascribing witchcraft , or anything demoniac to her . 
Nelly saw the smile , and said sadly : -- `` And do you think me crazy too , dear Miss Sinclair ? '' 
`` Far from it , Nelly ; but I confess you puzzle me . 
How old are you , Nelly ? '' 
`` And after living in her fine house for years , and learning so much , Nelly , you could , of your own will , abandon all , and go back to the woods ? '' 
`` But the folly , Nelly ? '' 
`` Well , you must keep your secret , Nelly , until you are willing to believe me such a true friend , that you will gladly ask me to help you in keeping it . 
I hope , Nelly , you think me your friend -- that you will let me protect you as a friend . '' 
`` And I 'm sure , Nelly , I can and do love you . 
Did no one -- did Lady Nelson never tell you that you had some extraordinary gifts , Nelly ? '' 
We used to play and sing together nightly ; he had a voice of great power , and so exquisite a taste -- '' The slightest possible smile was mantling upon the countenance of Carrie , when the quick eye of Nelly discerned it . 
She was detained by the veteran half an hour or so ; and , when dismissed , she hurried up to Nelly Floyd 's chamber , to see after her . 
But Nelly was not in her chamber , and , to the surprise of Carrie , she discovered the dress -- one of her own -- in which she had persuaded the strange girl to clothe herself , throwing aside her picturesque but unconventional costume , lying upon the bed . 
She ran through the house hastily , and finding the girl absent , she darted out into the contiguous groves , in which Nelly had previously been seen to wander . 
We must copy the ballad , if only to indicate the natural sentiment in poor Nelly 's bosom -- a sentiment which her ordinary conversation did not express ; for , though Nelly expressed herself always -- no one more frank -- yet ofherself she was rarely brought to speak : -- `` Why , Nelly dear , what a doleful ditty is this ! 
`` Nay , I will have it otherwise , Nelly . 
Nelly rose , and with sudden impulse embraced her ; then recoiled , and looked at her fondly but steadily , saying -- `` Ah , Miss Sinclair , it is the summer that blossoms in your heart ! '' 
`` It shall bloom in yours yet , Nelly . '' 
`` Why did you change your dress , Nelly ? '' 
`` Oh , I went to see poor little Aggy , and he would n't have known me in any other dress than this . '' 
`` But you do n't think of leaving us to-morrow , Nelly ? '' 
`` It will not be a painful sadness , Nelly . 
`` But you , Nelly -- what can you do for him ? '' 
`` Tell him what God wills ; help him to know and see what God wills ; and God provides , you know , even for the sparrows , and Mat is worth many sparrows -- though so weak -- so weak -- so fond of his weakness ! 
To her surprise and annoyance , when she rose in the morning , Nelly Floyd was gone . 
Among these conscripts , we discover no less a person than Mat Floyd , brother of our Nelly , with two out of the three comrades who escaped with him from the hot chase of Rawdon 's escort . 
The figure , whom we have seen trying at the door , was that of Nelly Floyd . 
Nelly has satisfied herself in respect to the fastenings . 
She is now in utter darkness , not knowing where to turn ; but Nelly 's resources are ample for her purposes . 
Nelly looked about among the sleepers with a countenance of very natural disgust . 
It is certain that Nelly Floyd exhibited a singular and painful interest in the study of the brutal features of our monster par excellence.She turned away , at length , and , from among the other sleeping drunkards , soon distinguished the person of her wretched brother . 
Nelly was instantly on her feet , and preparing to gain the door . 
They were met by those of Nelly ; and , as if bound by a spell , she could not turn her glance away from the painful stare of those sleep-glazed eyes of the ruffian , which seemed that of a frozen life -- a blank meaningless gaze -- full of a dazing intensity , but no aim . 
Nelly Floyd rose -- now thoroughly conscious that , in his present condition , there was no hope to arouse her brother . 
Poor Nelly prowled about till morning -- snatching a brief sleep under a tree in a close thicket , where Aggy busily browsed about for her supper . 
Poor Nelly ! 
They little dreamed , any of them , that Nelly Floyd was following , at a convenient distance , along the same route . 
Nelly Floyd was on the route to new mysteries . 
Her murmured accents first apprized him of her presence , as she said , `` Mat , my brother , it is Nelly , your own sister Nelly . '' 
`` Do n't be afraid , Mat -- it 's Nelly ! '' 
What do you want , Nelly ? '' 
`` Look you , Nelly ; do n't be talking any more of myhanging . 
The truth is , Nelly , you 've been a dreaming at me , with that gallows wision of your ` n , till I 'm almost sick of seein ' and hearin ' you ! 
Nelly , '' answered the other with a chuckle , `` rags is a disguising and a sarcumvention . 
`` Do n't talk to me , Nelly , of leaving a business which brings sich good pay , to go hoeing Mother Ford 's turnips and taters ! 
I 'd be jest as crazy as you ` self , Nelly , ef I was to do so . '' 
We musthev money , Nelly . 
You 're too full of notions , Nelly ; and I ai n't the man to be depending on a crazy gal like you . 
It is enough that Nelly Floyd labored at her mission until it became time to change the watch , then she disappeared ; but only out of sight ; she still lingered about the precinct ; hopeful of a more auspicious season . 
He had not been gone half an hour from the place where the encampment had been made , when Nelly Floyd might be seen to emerge from the deep thickets in the rear , where she had found safe harborage , quite unsuspected , and in a situation where she could see a good deal that was going on , and hear perhaps quite as much that was spoken . 
Enough , here , that Nelly Floyd keeps them in sight , but with wonderful dexterity so manages her own and the movements of her little pony , Aggy , that her following footsteps are never once suspected by any of the troop , unless , indeed , by her brother ; who , if he does suspect has at least sufficient prudence to keep his suspicions secret . 
The nearest approach to this swamp fastness was made by Nelly Floyd 's pony , which was sheltered on the very edge of the thicket , but fully a mile from the spot where the entrance was effected . 
Your wild girl , Nelly , as I live , Carrie , and her eternal little lightfooted pony . '' 
Sure enough , in the midst of the political conference between father and daughter , Nelly Floyd cantered up suddenly beside the carriage . 
`` Why , Nelly , is it you ? '' 
I am glad to see you well again as ever , '' was the good-humored address of the baron , while little Lottie , in silence possessed herself of the hand of Nelly , which , at the stopping of the coach , was thrust in at the windows . 
I 'm quite well , Nelly . 
When our baron stopped in his speech , Nelly seemed to wait , as if expecting that he would resume it ; but , as he did not , she again spoke . 
human blood , Nelly ! '' 
`` Pshaw , Nelly ! 
But they have only a few horse -- nothing to the men of Marion and Sumter -- '' `` Pooh , Nelly , my girl ! 
He laughed good-humoredly , however , and said : -- `` Well , Nelly , as you put it to me so closely , I confess I do not exactly think so ; but if five hundred British regulars are not equal to any thousand of Marion 's ragamuffins , then I 'll never sing ` Rule Britannia ' again . '' 
asked Nelly , as if seeking the solution of a difficulty . 
He gazed at her vacantly a moment , then said , with a sort of roar : -- `` By the powers , girl , if Willie Sinclair is not equal to any colonel of dragoons in the British army , I 'll -- I 'll -- I 'll -- turn rebel myself ! '' 
But , Nelly , my good girl , while I thank you for your information , and believe much of it to be true , I can not fear for the result when the forces are so nearly equal . 
Once more , Nelly , my girl , will you go with us , and be one of our family ? 
`` Oh , do go with us , Nelly ! '' 
-- '' and , as Carrie leaned her ear out of the window of the carriage , she whispered : -- `` Oh , Miss Sinclair , I have found him -- my brother ! 
I find him again in bad company , and I 'm trying , when I can get a chance , to win him away from it ; for I see the terrible fate that awaits him , though he does not , and he will not believe me . 
Oh , he is so foolish , so perverse ! 
`` Do , do come with us , Nelly ! '' 
exclaimed Peter , almost aghast , `` you ` speck me for catch Harricane Nell -- me , on dis great bony critter , and Nelly on de pony who 's got wing to he foot ? '' 
What the d -- l does he mean by that ? '' 
Carrie reminded him that Nelly had been the protegéof Lady Nelson . 
`` I jes ' been wait for you done talk , maussa , '' he answered confusedly , rousing himself with a start . 
And Sam whipped up his horses , and the progress was resumed ; the lumbering coach of state wheeling slowly forward , along the monotonous route , through a gloomy range of silent thicket ; and , for the present , bearing our veteran baron and his fair daughters from our sight . 
We have seen him pursuing the trail of Nelly Floyd 's pony , which , in this particular instance , has really carried him farther from his game , though still in close proximity with those who had ensnared it . 
Meanwhile , the carriage of `` Miss Smit ' '' drew nigh , drew up , and Carrie Sinclair was pleased and surprised to discover in Mrs. and Miss Smith the two ladies that had so briefly challenged the hospitality of the barony , when poor Nelly Floyd was brought in wounded . 
Need we say , that close at its heels , Nelly Floyd , our `` Harricane Nelly , '' faithful to the last -- faithful to a mere superstitution -- follows , on her little pony , on the heels of her profligate brother . 
About half a mile from this encampment , in a still deeper thicket , Nelly Floyd made her encampment also -- she and her pony , Aggy . 
It was tending toward three o'clock , in the afternoon of the same day on which the interview of Devil-Dick with Henry Travis took place , when Nelly , seated upon the grass , was partaking of her simple forest-fare . 
But Nelly had her friends in sundry cottages , and , where known , she was always a favorite . 
Nelly Floyd ate with appetite . 
Stooping and drinking , Nelly looked up , and was surprised to discover a stranger -- a man seated upon a fallen tree , and witnessing her performances . 
Like a fawn suddenly roused in the wilderness , by the sharp bay of the beagle , Nelly Floyd started , with a consciousness of danger , as she beheld this unlooked for spectator . 
How had he come upon her so suddenly -- so stealthily -- and with what object ? 
Ballou , for it was he , was a man of a good deal of power , and some fleetness arising from plentiful muscle and early training , and never doubted his ability to run down a girl ; and possibly , were the costume of Nelly Floyd that usually worn by the sex , he might easily have caught her . 
But he soon found that his calculations were sadly at fault . 
He might as well have chased the wind in its play with the ocean . 
The girl left him behind , and after running a couple of hundred yards , and tripping over a root which brought him heavily to the ground , he was fain to give up a chase which promised only such hazards . 
He rose panting , and vexed , looking wistfully at the figure of the girl , a hundred yards beyond him , standing quietly beside a tree , and looking composedly on all his movements . 
quoth he , `` but I have the means to catch you yet . '' 
And so speaking to himself , he wheeled about , recrossed the brooklet , and made straight toward Aggy , the pony , who was quietly browsing still and showing no sort of apprehension . 
But the girl had divined the object of the scout ; and at the very moment , when Ballou thought to put out his hand and seize the bridle of the beast , which was hanging loose , Nelly whistled shrilly twice or thrice , and Aggy bounded away , throwing up her heels almost in the face of the stranger . 
Ballou took his way into the thickets in the rear , having first seen Nelly mount her pony , and trot off , apparently toward the road running west of the swamp . 
When he had found and mounted his horse , and got back to the spot where he had seen her last , she was out of sight . 
Leaving pursuer and pursued for awhile , let us briefly report that Nelly Floyd , no inferior woodsman , by this time , had , harelike , doubled upon her tracks , and before night was once more prowling about the tents of the wicked : in other words , lurking about the camp of Inglehardt , in the hope once more to confer with her witless brother . 
That night , watching herchance , Nelly again obtained an interview with her brother , coming upon him while he was on his post of watch . 
`` What does you come for , Nelly ? '' 
For it 's all a dream , Nelly : one of your crazy dreams , I reckon . '' 
`` Look you , Nelly -- be off ! 
The meditations of Nelly Floyd in her woodland covert , lonely and desolate as was her life , were of a pure and refining sorrow ; but they were nevertheless a sorrow . 
But it was Nelly 's own subject of wonder , that the event was always , as it were scenically painted , in detail , before her eyes . 
While Nelly Floyd was thus sleeping , innocently and lonely , in the forests , Dick of Tophet had made his way from camp to the recesses of Muddicoat Castle . 
With the dawn of the next day he sallied forth with his party from camp , and gave the woods a thorough scouring ; but Nelly Floyd was on the alert , and no more to be caught by Devil Dick than by scout Ballou . 
He had scared our poor girl Nelly Floyd from her perch . 
And , while poor Nelly Floyd , sleeping soundly , exhausted by long watching and hard riding , was oblivious in her thickets , her wretched brother was riding off , with Gus Clayton and Sam Jones , on their way to Griffith 's `` Swamp Hellery ! '' 
The prisoner is Nelly Floyd . 
Nelly would not have been taken -- would have seen the approaching party -- but for a strange stupor which seemed to possess her senses , making her , for the time , oblivious of all external objects . 
He could supply the defects in Nelly 's testimony . 
But Nelly Floyd had not listened to ` Bram 's harangue with the degree of patience which his other hearers manifested . 
Forthe first few moments after the disappearance of Nelly Floyd , a feeling of wonder and admiration , if not awe , overspread the little circle , and hung like a cloudy spell upon the senses of all . 
The British army has not yet quite reached this place of refuge ; and Nelly Floyd is rapidly speeding downward , several miles in advance of their columns . 
He says : ` Save me , Nelly , my sister ! 
Come to me , Nelly , before I die ! ' 
It 's jest what Nelly said . 
Lord , ef I had only hearn to Nelly . 
`` Relieve him , if it needs , '' said the young officer to one of the soldiers . 
Oh , Nelly , whar kin you be , now , when I wants you -- now , when the time 's come you said ? 
Come and help me , Nelly ; come and save me , gal , ef you ever did love -- ah ! 
A mile away , those last words seemed to reach the ears of Nelly Floyd ! 
Nelly was off from her back in the same moment , and standing upon the earth herself , staggering blindly forward to the group of officers and soldiers upon the hill . 
Itwas no mere faint into which Nelly Floyd had fallen . 
To all mere casual observation , Nelly Floyd was dead . 
He wrote while Nelly lay lifeless before his eyes . 
His account was copious , as far as he knew . 
The picture he drew was sufficiently pathetic . 
Already had he conceived the idea of sending the girl on to his mother , in Florida , should she recover from her swoon . 
But Nelly waved her hand , palm outward , as if commanding silence ; and the nurse , though much wondering at the bad taste of her patient , to whom she was disposed to deliver all the news of the precinct , was perforce hushed by the action into stillness . 
There she found supper and scandal in equal quantity , and , relishing both sorts of food , she lingered , perhaps , rather longer away from her patient than was altogether prudent for a nurse to do -- but which , by-the-way , a nurse is rather apt to do -- and when she got back to the chamber , was confounded to find Nelly sitting up . 
You ai n't fit to be setting up after the long swoundyou 've hed '' -- and she put forth her hands to second her words ; but Nelly was docile , and at once submitted , without offering resistance . 
murmured Nelly to herself . 
Nelly heard his voice as he entered the room . 
Sherrod Nelson was busily employed all day , but the image of Nelly Floyd was present to his fancy all the while . 
`` Yes , '' he said , thinking to himself , `` Nelly wasbeautiful . 
He had seen Nelly 's beauty -- feltit -- admired her spirit , grace , sweetness , talents ; but -- Nelly was an orphan -- sprang from unknown people -- nay , from people too well known -- and , Sherrod Nelson had lost some of his independence of soul , in his sophistication . 
Nelly Floyd had made a deep and vivid impression upon Sherrod Nelson ; but , who is Nelly Floyd ? 
And such also was the conclusion of Nelly Floyd . 
Sherrod Nelson , step by step , had approached , with his own , so nigh to the heart of Nelly Floyd -- nay , had so nearly spoken out , from his own , to her heart , that the girl started up into sudden consciousness of the true relations between them . 
But she fancied that she saw into his also . 
And , with these discoveries -- with this consciousness -- seeing to the remotest consequences -- she suddenly said to Lady Nelson : -- `` I must go ! '' 
But he knew not Nelly 's strength , or pride , or sensibility . 
She left Nelly Floyd `` in her swound , '' as she called it . 
Nelly Floyd was nowhere to be found . 
They must have gone together . 
How , in her weakness contrived to saddle , mount him and ride away ? 
`` Where was Nelly Floyd ? '' 
In the same moment , Sinclair distinguished , in the searcher of the slain , the strange wild girl , Nelly Floyd , who , in some degree , held in her hands the clues to that mystery which was then his anxiety . 
He uttered an ejaculation of pleasure , and sprang forward . 
But of Bertha Travis , Nelly Floyd could say nothing . 
He was making his way back from the field toward the encampment of the partisans , when Nelly proposed to leave him , in order to get her pony which she had hidden away in a dense thicket on the right . 
Everything was related in few words , and , before the troop was quite ready for departure , Nelly Floyd , perched on Aggy , was waiting in the foreground . 
A considerable distance was overcome , when Nelly came to a halt . 
Nelly , who seemed to entertain quite as much dislike for the professional scout as he for the amateur , had her answer ready : -- `` If he will undertake your guidance , you need not me . '' 
At parting , Nelly Floyd said : -- `` We must have an hour and a half , at least , sir . 
Nelly pushed on ahead of the little squad of six sure troopers , led by Sinclair in person , all well armed with sword and pistol . 
When they had gone a mile or more , Nelly stopped . 
`` Fasten your horses in that thicket , '' said Nelly . 
It was fully an hour , working through the tangled wilderness in which they went , before Nelly brought them to the margin of the deeper swamp -- the barrier of bush , and bog , and brier , which formed the outer wall of Muddicoat Castle . 
Nelly appeared to understand Sinclair 's bewilderment as he surveyed , and said quietly : -- `` Your scout got as far as this , but could see his way no farther . '' 
At length , Nelly laid her hand on Sinclair 's wrist . 
`` Well , '' said he , `` you can follow me ; but it is now my turn to lead ; '' and so speaking , and putting Nelly behind him , he stepped firmly , and noiselessly , upon the fallen tree , which spanned the creek , and led from the little boggy hammock which they had reached to the island -- the obscure fastness of Muddicoat -- which stretched away in shadowy woods , though under the dim light of stars , before their eyes . 
Noiselessly drawing his sabre , at the same moment , Sinclair prepared for any struggle -- better satisfied , feeling this weapon in his grasp , of the certainty of his aim , than he could be of any pistol practice in the vague and hazy light which the night and the forests permitted . 
He went forward , thus prepared , Nelly immediately behind him , while his half-a-dozen dragoons followed in Indian file , as silently along the cypress . 
Conld Sinclair have looked behind at that moment , he would have been surprised to see the pallid and wild aspect of the girl -- her eyes were more than ever dilated -- they looked up to heaven -- her lips were parted -- was it in prayer ? 
And Dick of Tophet slowly buckled on his pistols , and restored the Pilgrim to his bosom , and took his way -- still uneasy , still gravelled by thought and conscience -- toward the appointed station ; to watch at the very cypress , which Willie Sinclair was to cross under the guidance of Nelly Floyd . 
Here , not five steps from the inner terminus of the cypress , he stretched himself out , covered with a clump of myrtle , at the foot of a mighty sycamore . 
A shriek from Nelly Floyd , showed that his bullet had found a victim : the last , probably , that the murderer would have chosen ! 
Poor Nelly Floyd was mortally wounded by the last shot that Dick of Tophet ever fired . 
Nelly was not the person to cry aloud unhurt . 
The passionate impulse which carried him forward , was quickened , rather than disarmed , by that spasmodic shriek . 
He did not -- as we have seen -- strike in vain ! 
He soon saw that the enemy could strike and strive no more -- he readily identified him , as he lay quivering , no longer conscious , at his feet ; a single glance sufficed for this -- and he then turned to the wounded girl , who had been sustained and brought to the firm land in the arms of the soldier . 
Poor Nelly , suppressed every moan . 
He had helped to stanch Nelly 's wound , which was on the side . 
She was borne away by her lover from the horrid spectacle , and carried to the wigwam of Blodgit , where the touching condition of poor Nelly Floyd , and the duty of nursing her , appealing fortunately to her humanity , served -- though still how sadly -- to lessen in some degree the force of that terrible shock which her mind had received ! 
Poor Nelly ! 
Nelly Floyd still lives -- still smiles -- knows all -- knows that she is dying , and still smiles ! 
And the day wore on till noon , and Nelly lived . 
A litter , meanwhile , has been prepared , through the providence of Sinclair , by means of which , Nelly has been borne across the swamp , without much pain or inconvenience . 
did you ever see such a likeness to poor Nelly Floyd ? '' 
