`` The house will once again , Mrs. Dombey , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` be not only in name but in fact Dombey and Son ; Dom-bey and Son ! '' 
The words had such a softening influence , that he appended a term of endearment to Mrs. Dombey 's name -LRB- though not without some hesitation , as being a man but little used to that form of address -RRB- : and said , `` Mrs. Dombey my -- my dear . '' 
Those three words conveyed the one idea of Mr. Dombey 's life . 
Such idle talk was little likely to reach the ears of Mr. Dombey , whom it nearly concerned ; and probably no one in the world would have received it with such utter incredulity as he , if it had reached him . 
Mr. Dombey would have reasoned : That a matrimonial alliance with himself must , in the nature of things , be gratifying and honourable to any woman of common sense . 
They had been married ten years , and until this present day on which Mr. Dombey sat jingling and jingling his heavy gold watch-chain in the great arm-chair by the side of the bed , had had no issue . 
Mr. Dombey 's cup of satisfaction was so full at this moment , however , that he felt he could afford a drop or two of its contents , even to sprinkle on the dust in the by-path of his little daughter . 
So he said , `` Florence , youmay go and look at your pretty brother , if you like , I dare say . 
said Mr. Dombey , rising testily . 
I need n't beg you , '' he added , pausing for a moment at the settee before the fire , `` to take particular care of this young gentleman , Mrs. -- '' `` Blockitt , Sir ? '' 
I remember when Miss Florence was born -- '' `` Ay , ay , ay , '' said Mr. Dombey , bending over the basket bedstead , and slightly bending his brows at the same time . 
As he thus apostrophized the infant he raised one of his hands to his lips , and kissed it ; then , seeming to fear that the action involved some compromise of his dignity , went , awkwardly enough , away . 
Mr. Dombey was quite discomfited by the question . 
He had thought so little of the patient , that he was not in a condition to answer it . 
He said that it would be a satisfaction to him , if Doctor Parker Peps would walk up stairs again . 
To record of Mr. Dombey that he was not in his way affected by this intelligence , would be to do him an injustice . 
He was not a man of whom it could properly be said that he was ever startled , or shocked ; but he certainly had a sense within him , that if his wife should sicken and decay , he would be very sorry , and that he would find a something gone from among his plate and furniture , and other household possessions , which was well worth the having , and could not be lost without sincere regret . 
His meditations on the subject were soon interrupted , first by the rustling of garments on the stairease , and then by the sudden whisking into the room of a lady rather past the middle age than otherwise , but dressed in a very juvenile manner , particularly as to the tightness of her boddice , who , running up to him with a kind of screw in her face and carriage , expressive of suppressed emotion , flung her arms round his neck , and said , in a choking voice , `` My dear Paul ! 
returned her brother -- for Mr. Dombey was her brother `` I think he is like the family . 
said Mr. Dombey . 
Miss Tox , my brother Mr. Dombey . 
`` I am sure , '' said Miss Tox , with a prodigious curtsey , `` that to have the honour of being presented to Mr. Dombey is a distinction which I have long sought , but very little expected at the present moment . 
Mr. Dombey of course officiated . 
Miss Tox made a graceful bend as she spoke , in favour of Mr. Dombey , which that gentleman graciously acknowledged . 
Mr. Dombey being hastily summoned out of the room at this moment , the two ladies were left alone together . 
exclaimed his sister , as he returned , `` you look quite pale ! 
`` I am sorry to say , Lousia , that they tell me that Fanny -- '' `` Now my dear Paul , '' returned his sister rising , `` do n't believe it . 
Mr. Dombey , who , besides being generally influenced by his sister for the reason already mentioned , had really faith in her as an experienced and bustling matron , acquiesced ; and followed her , at once , to the sick chamber . 
The lady lay upon her bed as he had left her , clasping her little daughter to her breast . 
`` Restless without the little girl , '' the Doctor whispered Mr. Dombey . 
There was no sound in answer but the loud ticking of Mr. Dombey 's watch and Doctor Parker Peps 's watch , which seemed in the silence to be running a race . 
`` Fanny , my dear , '' said Mrs. Chick , with assumed lightness , `` here 's Mr. Dombey come to see you . 
Wo n't you speak to him ? 
They want to lay your little boy -- the baby , Fanny , you know ; you have hardly seen him yet , I think -- in bed ; but they ca n't till you rouse youself a little . 
Mr. Dombey 's watch and Dr. Parker Peps 's watch seemed to be racing faster . 
You might eat your dinner off the floor -RRB- , I found the whole family sitting at table ; and feeling that no account of them could be half so comfortable to you and Mr. Dombey as the sight of them all together , I brought them all away . 
Mr. Dombey had remained in his own apartment since the death of his wife , absorbed in visions of the youth , education , and destination of his baby son . 
Something lay at the bottom of his cool heart , colder and heavier than its ordinary load ; but it was more a sense of the child 's loss than his own , awakening within him an almost angry sorrow . 
That the life and progress on which he built such hopes , should be endangered in the outset by so mean a want ; that Dombey and Son should be tottering for a nurse , was a sore humiliation . 
And yet in his pride and jealousy , he viewed with so much bitterness the thought of being dependent for the very first step towards the accomplishment of his soul 's desire , on a nired serving-woman who would be to the child , for the time , all that even his alliance could have made his own wife , that in every new rejection of a candidate he felt a secret pleasure . 
The time had now come , however , when he could no longer be divided between these two sets of feelings . 
The less so , as there seemed to be no flaw in the title of Polly Toodle after his sister had set it forth , with many commendations on the indefatigable friendship of Miss Tox . 
`` These children look healthy , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
`` My good woman , '' said Mr. Dombey turning round in his easy chair , as one piece , and not as a man with limbs and joints , `` I understand you are poor , and wish to earn money by nursing the little boy , my son , who has been so prematurely deprived of what can never be replaced . 
`` Oh , of course , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
Mrs. Toodle seemed doubtful about it ; and as to Toodle himself , he had evidently no doubt whatever , that he was all abroad . 
`` You have children of your own , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
`` I hope you do , Richards , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
Thus arrested on the threshold as he was following his wife out of the room , Toodle returned and confronted Mr. Dombey alone . 
He was a strong , loose , round-shouldered , shuffling , shaggy fellow , on whom his clothes sat negligently : with a good deal of hair and whisker , deepened in its natural tint , perhaps by smoke and coal-dust : hard knotty hands : and a square forehead , as coarse in grain as the bark of an oak . 
A thorough contrast in all respects , to Mr. Dombey , who was one of those close-shaved close-cut monied gentlemen who are glossy and crisp like new bank notes , and who seem to be artificially braced and tightened as by the stimulating action of golden shower-baths . 
said Mr. Dombey . 
said Mr. Dombey . 
asked Mr. Dombey . 
`` And yet , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` you are two or three and thirty I suppose ? '' 
asked Mr. Dombey . 
said Mr. Dombey , after looking at him attentively , and with no great favour , as he stood gazing round the room -LRB- principally round the ceiling -RRB- and still drawing his hand across and across his mouth . 
`` Polly heerd it , '' said Toodle , jerking his hat over his shoulder in the direction of the door , with an air of perfect confidence in his better half . 
`` As you appear to leave everything to her , '' said Mr. Dombey , frustrated in his intention of impressing his views still more distinctly on the husband , as the stronger character , `` I suppose it is of no use my saying anything to you . '' 
`` I wo n't detain you any longer then , '' returned Mr. Dombey disappointed . 
As the last straw breaks the laden camel 's back , this piece of underground information crushed the sinking spirits of Mr. Dombey . 
He motioned his child 's foster-father to the door , who departed by no means unwillingly : and then turning the key , paced up and down the room in solitary wretchedness . 
For all his starched , impenetrable dignity and composure , he wiped blinding tears from his eyes as he did so ; and often said , with an emotion of which he would not , for the world , have had a witness , `` Poor little fellow ! '' 
It may have been characteristic of Mr. Dombey 's pride , that he pitied himself through the child . 
The funeral of the deceased lady having been `` performed , '' to the entire satisfaction of the undertaker , as well as of the neighbourhood at large , which is generally disposed to be captious on such a point , and is prone to take offence at any omissions or short-comings in the ceremonies , the various members of Mr. Dombey 's household subsided into their several places in the domestic system . 
Mr. Dombey 's house was a large one , on the shady side of a tall , dark , dreadfully genteel street in the region between Portland-place and Bryanstonesquare . 
When the funeral was over , Mr. Dombey ordered the furniture to be covered up -- perhaps to preserve it for the son with whom his plans were all associated -- and the rooms to be ungarnished , saving such as he retained for himself on the ground floor . 
Every gust of wind that rose , brought eddying round the corner from the neighbouring mews , some fragments of the straw that had been strewn before the house when she was ill , mildewed remains of which were still cleaving to the neighbourhood : and these , being always drawn by some invisible attraction to the threshold of the dirty house to let immediately opposite , addressed a dismal eloquence to Mr. Dombey 's windows . 
The apartments which Mr. Dombey reserved for his own inhabiting , were attainable from the hall , and consisted of a sitting-room ; a library , which was in fact a dressing-room , so that the smell of hot-pressed paper , vellum , morocco , and Russia leather , contended in it with the smell of divers pairs of boots ; and a kind of conservatory or little glass breakfast-room beyond , commanding a prospect of the trees before mentioned , and , generally speaking , of a few prowling cats . 
In the morning , when Mr. Dombey was at his breakfast in one or other of the two first mentioned of them , as well as in the afternoon when he came home to dinner , a bell was rung for Richards to repair to this glass chamber , and there walk to and fro with her young charge . 
From the glimpses she caught of Mr. Dombey at these times , sitting in the dark distance , looking out towards the infant from among the dark heavy furniture -- the house had been inhabited for years by his father , and in many of its appointments was old-fashioned and grim -- she began to entertain ideas of him in his solitary state , as if he were a lone prisoner in a cell , or a strange apparition that was not be accosted or understood . 
`` Has n't Mr. Dombey seen her since -- '' `` No , '' interrupted Susan Nipper . 
`` Not once since , and he had n't hardly set his eyes upon her before that for months and months , and I do n't think he 'd have known her for his own child if he had met her in the streets , or would know her for his own child if he was to meet her in the streets to-morrow , Mrs. Richards , as to me , '' said Spitfire , with a giggle , `` I doubt if he 's aweer of my existence . '' 
And perhaps , unlearned as she was , she could have brought a dawning knowledge home to Mr. Dombey at that early day , which would not then have struck him in the end like lightning . 
She had been rung down into the glass room as usual , and had walked about and about it a long time , with the baby in her arms , when , to her great surprise and dismay , Mr. Dombey came out , suddenly , and stopped before her . 
`` He looks so , '' said Mr. Dombey , glancing with great interest at the tiny face she uncovered for his obsevation , and yet affecting to be half careless of it . 
She suddenly appended such an obvious hesitation to this reply , however , that Mr. Dombey , who had turned away , stopped , and turned round again , inquiringly . 
`` I think I mentioned to you , Richards , when you came here , '' said Mr. Dombey , with a frown , `` that I wished you to see as little of your family as possible . 
With that , he disappeared into his inner room ; and Polly had the satisfaction of feeling that he had thoroughly misunderstood her object , and that she had fallen into disgrace without the least advancement of her purpose . 
Next night , she found him walking about the conservatory when she came down . 
As she stopped at the door , checked by this unusual sight , and uncertain whether to advance or retreat , he called her in . 
`` If you really think that sort of society is good for the child , '' he said sharply , as if there had been no interval since she proposed it , `` where 's Miss Florence ? '' 
`` Nothing could be better than Miss Florence Sir , '' said Polly eagerly , `` but I understood from her little maid that they were not to -- '' Mr. Dombey rang the bell , and walked till it was answered . 
The iron was now hot , and Richards striking on it boldly -- it was a good cause and she was bold in it , though instinetively afraid of Mr. Dombey -- requested that Miss Florence might be sent down then and there , to make friends with her little brother . 
She feigned to be dandling the child as the servant retired on this errand , but she thought she saw that Mr. Dombey 's colour changed ; that the expression of his face quite altered ; that he turned , hurriedly , as if to gainsay what he had said , or she had said , or both and was only deterred by very shame . 
The last time he had seen his slighted child , there had been that in the sad embrace between her and her dying mother , which was at once a revelation and a reproach to him . 
Let him be absorbed as he would in the Son on whom he built such high hopes , he could not forget that closing scene . 
He could not forget that he had had no part in it . 
That , at the bottom of its clear depths of tenderness and truth , lay those two figures clasped in each other 's arms , while he stood on the bank above them , looking down a mere spectator -- not a sharer with them -- quite shut out . 
He almost felt as if she watched and distrusted him . 
As if she held the clue to something secret in his breast , of the nature of which he was hardly informed himself . 
As if she had an innate knowledge of one jarring and discordant string within him , and her very breath could sound it . 
His feeling about the child had been negative from her birth . 
He had never conceived an aversion to her ; it had not been worth his while or in his humour . 
She had never been a positively disagreeable object to him . 
But now he was ill at ease about her . 
She troubled his peace . 
He would have preferred to put her idea aside altogether , if he had known how . 
-- he was afraid that he might come to hate her . 
When little Florence timidly presented herself , Mr. Dombey stopped in his pacing up and down and looked towards her . 
Had he looked with greater interest and with a father 's eye , he might have read in her keen glance the impulses and fears that made her waver ; the passionate desire to run clinging to him , crying , as she hid her face in his embrace , `` Oh father , try to love me ! 
the dread of a repulse ; the fear of being too bold , and of offending him ; the pitiable need in which she stood of some assurance and encouragement ; and how her overcharged young heart was wandering to find some natural resting-place , for its sorrow and affection . 
But he saw nothing of this . 
He saw her pause irresolutely at the door and look towards him ; and he saw no more . 
`` Come in , '' he said , `` come in : what is the child afraid of ? '' 
She came in ; and after glancing round her for a moment with an uncertain air , stood pressing her small hands hard together , close within the door . 
`` Come here , Florence , '' said her father , coldly . 
The tears that stood in her eyes as she raised them quickly to his face , were frozen by the expression it wore . 
She looked down again , and put out her trembling hand . 
Mr. Dombey took it loosely in his own , and stood looking down upon her for a moment as if he knew as little as the child , what to say or do . 
Be a good girl , '' he said , patting her on the head , and regarding her as it were by stealth with a disturbed and doubtful look . 
His little daughter hesitated for another instant as though she would have clung about him still , or had some lingering hope that he might raise her in his arms and kiss her . 
She looked up in his face once more . 
He thought how like her expression was then , to what it had been when she looked round at the Doctor -- that night -- and instinctively dropped her hand and turned away . 
Still , Polly persevered with all the better heart for seeing this ; and , judging of Mr. Dombey by herself , had great confidence in the mute appeal of poor little Florence 's mourning dress . 
So , Polly kept her before his eyes , as long as she could , and managed so well with little Paul , as to make it very plain that he was all the livelier for his sister 's company . 
The little altercation between them had attracted the notice of Mr. Dombey , who inquired from the table where he was sitting at his wine , what the matter was . 
`` It does n't matter , '' returned Mr. Dombey . 
`` Oh yes , plenty of that I suppose , '' returned his nephew carelessly ; `` but all that sort of thing 's in Mr. Carker 's room , or Mr. Morfin 's , or Mr. Dombey 's . '' 
`` Has Mr. Dombey been there to-day ? '' 
`` He did n't take any notice of you , I suppose ? '' 
`` Yes he did . 
He walked up to my seat , -- I wish he was n't so solemn and stiff , Uncle -- and said ` Oh ! 
`` And although Mr. Dombey has n't a daughter , '' Sol began . 
`` Yes , yes , he has , uncle , '' said the boy , reddening and laughing . 
`` Has he ? '' 
`` Indeed I think he has too . '' 
I know he has , '' said the boy . 
Every day , too , he was more and more ardently cherished by Miss Tox , whose devotion was so far appreciated by Mr. Dombey that he began to regard her as a woman of great natural good sense , whose feelings did her credit and deserved encouragement . 
He was so lavish of his condescension , that he not only bowed to her , in a particular manner , on several occasions , but even entrusted such stately recognitions of her to his sister as `` pray tell your friend , Louisa , that she is very good , '' or `` mention to Miss Tox , Louisa , that I am obliged to her ; '' specialities which made a deep impression on the lady thus distinguished . 
The administration of infantine doses of physic awakened all the active sympathy of her character ; and being on one occasion secreted in a cupboard -LRB- whither she had fled in modesty -RRB- , when Mr. Dombey was introduced into the nursery by his sister , to behold his son , in the course of preparation for bed , taking a short walk uphill over Richards 's gown , in a short and airy linen jacket , Miss Tox was so transported beyond the ignorant present as to be unable to refrain from crying out , `` Is he not beautiful , Mr. Dombey ! 
Is he not a Cupid , sir ! '' 
`` Louisa , '' said Mr. Dombey , one day , to his sister , `` I really think I must present your friend with some little token , on the occasion of Paul 's christening . 
Let it be no detraction from the merits of Miss Tox , to hint that in Mr. Dombey 's eyes , as in some others that occasionally see the light , they only achieved that mighty piece of knowledge , the understanding of their own position , who showed a fitting reverence for his . 
It was not so much their merit that they knew themselves , as that they knew him , and bowed low before him . 
`` My dear Paul , '' returned his sister , `` you do Miss Tox but justice , as a man of your penetration was sure , I knew , to do . 
`` Well , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` I believe it . 
`` And as to anything in the shape of a token , my dear Paul , '' pursued his sister , `` all I can say is that anything you give Miss Tox will be hoarded and prized , I am sure , like a relic . 
asked Mr. Dombey . 
`` I do n't know why they should be , to my son , '' said Mr. Dombey coldly . 
`` Louisa , '' said Mr. Dombey , after a short pause , `` it is not to be supposed -- '' `` Certainly not , '' cried Mrs. Chick , hastening to anticipate a refusal , `` I never thought it was . '' 
Mr. Dombey looked at her impatiently . 
`` Do n't flurry me , my dear Paul , '' said his sister ; `` for that destroys me . 
Mr. Dombey glanced at the pocket-handkerchief which his sister applied to her eyes , and resumed : `` It is not to be supposed , I say -- '' `` And I say , '' murmured Mrs. Chick , `` that I never thought it was . '' 
said Mr. Dombey . 
Mr. Dombey walked to the window and back again . 
`` It is not to be supposed , Louisa , '' he said -LRB- Mrs. Chick had nailed her colours to the mast , and repeated `` I know it is n't , '' but he took no notice of it -RRB- , `` but that there are many persons who , supposing that I recognized any claim at all in such a case , have a claim upon me superior to Miss Tox 's . 
In the course of these remarks , delivered with great majesty and grandeur , Mr. Dombey had truly revealed the secret feelings of his breast . 
An indescribable distrust of anybody stepping in between himself and his son ; a haughty dread of having any rival or partner in the boy 's respect and deference ; a sharp misgiving , recently acquired , that he was not infallible in his power of bending and binding human wills ; as sharp a jealousy of any second check or cross ; these were , at that time , the master keys of his soul . 
Elevated thus to the godmothership of little Paul , in virtue of her insignificance , Miss Tox was from that hour chosen and appointed to office ; and Mr. Dombey further signified his pleasure that the ceremony , already long delayed , should take place without further postponement . 
His sister , who had been far from anticipating so signal a success , withdrew as soon as she could , to communicate it to her best of friends ; and Mr. Dombey was left alone in his library . 
Mr. Dombey represented in himself the wind , the shade , and autumn of the christening . 
He stood in his library to receive the company , as liard and cold as the weather ; and when he looked out through the glass room , at the trees in the little garden , their brown and yellow leaves came fluttering down , as if he blighted them . 
A dusty urn at each high corner , dug up from an ancient tomb , preached desolation and decay , as from two pulpits ; and the chimney-glass , reflecting Mr. Dombey and his portrait at one blow , seemed fraught with melancholy meditations . 
The stiff and stark fire-irons appeared to claim a nearer relationship than anything else there to Mr. Dombey , with his buttoned coat , his white cravat , his heavy gold watch-chain , and his creaking boots . 
But this was before the arrival of Mr. and Mrs. Chick , his lawful relatives , who soon presented themselves . 
`` My dear Paul , '' Mrs. Chick murmured , as she embraced him , `` the beginning , I hope , of many joyful days ! '' 
`` Thank you , Louisa , '' said Mr. Dombey , grimly . 
He gave Mr. Dombey his hand , as if he feared it might electrify him . 
Mr. Dombey took it as if it were a fish , or seaweed , or some such clammy substance , and immediately returned it to him with exalted politeness . 
`` Perhaps , Louisa , '' said Mr. Dombey , slightly turning his head in his cravat , as if it were a socket , `` you would have preferred a fire ? '' 
`` Mr. John , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` you are not sensible of any chill ? '' 
Mr. John , who had already got both his hands in his pockets over the wrists , and was on the very threshold of that same canine chorus which had given Mrs. Chick so much offence on a former occasion , protested that he was perfectly comfortable . 
He added in a low voice , `` With my tiddle tol toor rul '' -- when he was providentially stopped by Towlinson , who announced : `` Miss Tox ! '' 
`` How do you do , Miss Tox , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
Miss Tox in the midst of her spreading gauzes , went down altogether like an opera-glass shutting-up ; she curtseyed so low , in acknowledgment of Mr. Dombey 's advancing a step or two to meet her . 
The atmosphere became or might have become colder and colder , when Mr. Dombey stood frigidly watching his little daughter , who , clapping her hands , and standing on tiptoe before the throne of his son and heir , lured him to bend down from his high estate , and look at her . 
Some honest act of Richards ' may have aided the effect , but he did look down , and held his peace . 
As his sister hid behind her nurse , he followed her with his eyes ; and when she peeped out with a merry cry to him , he sprang up and crowed lustily -- laughing outright when she ran in upon him ; and seeming to fondle her curls with his tiny hands , while she smothered him with kisses . 
Was Mr. Dombey pleased to see this ? 
He testified no pleasure by the relaxation of a nerve ; but outward tokens of any kind of feeling were unusal with him . 
If any sunbeam stole into the room to light the children at their play , it never reached his face . 
He looked on so fixedly and coldly , that the warm light vanished even from the laughing eyes of little Florence , when , at last , they happened to meet his . 
`` Mr. John , '' said Mr. Dombey , referring to his watch , and assuming his hat and gloves . 
In Mr. Dombey 's carriage , Dombey and Son , Miss Tox , Mrs. Chick , Richards , and Florence . 
Once upon the road to church , Mr. Dombey clapped his hands for the amusement of his son . 
Mr. Dombey dismounting first to help the ladies out , and standing near him at the coach door , looked like another beadle . 
Miss Tox 's hand trembled as she slipped it through Mr. Dombey 's arm , and felt herself escorted up the steps , preceded by a cocked hat and a Babylonian collar . 
Before he turned again to lead the way , he gave Mr. Dombey a bow and a half smile of recognition , importing that he -LRB- the beadle -RRB- remembered to have had the pleasure of attending on him when he buried his wife , and hoped he had enjoyed himself since . 
During the whole of these proceedings , Mr. Dombey remained as impassive and gentlemanly as ever , and perhaps assisted in making it so cold , that the young curate smoked at the mouth as he read . 
The only time that he unbent his visage in the least , was when the clergyman , in delivering -LRB- very unaffectedly and simply -RRB- the closing exhortation , relative to the future examination of the child by the sponsors , happened to rest his eye on Mr. Chick ; and then Mr. Dombey might have been seen to express by a majestic look , that he would like to catch him at it . 
It might have been well for Mr. Dombey , if he had thought of his own dignity a little less ; and had thought of the great origin and purpose of the ceremony in which he took so formal and so stiff a part , a little more . 
His arrogance contrasted strangely with its history . 
When it was all over , he again gave his arm to Miss Tox , and conducted her to the vestry , where he informed the clergyman how much pleasure it would have given him to have solicited the honour of his company at dinner , but for the unfortunate state of his household affairs . 
Mr. Dombey also produced a bracelet for Miss Tox ; and , on the receipt of this token , Miss Tox was tenderly affected . 
`` Mr. John , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` will you take the bottom of the table , if you please . 
`` This , '' returned Mr. Dombey , `` is some cold preparation of calf 's head , I think . 
Mr. Dombey alone remained unmoved . 
He might have been hung up for sale at a Russian fair as a specimen of a frozen gentleman . 
The prevailing influence was too much even for his sister . 
`` Mr. John , '' said Mr. Dombey , with severe gravity , `` my son would feel and express himself obliged to you , I have no doubt , if he could appreciate the favour you have done him . 
Not so Miss Tox , who , having listened to Mr. Dombey with even a more emphatic attention than usual , and with a more expressive tendency of her head to one side , now leant across the table , and said to Mrs. Chick softly : `` Louisa ! '' 
Mr. Dombey , in the meanwhile , had issued orders for the attendance or Richards , who now entered curtseying , but without the baby ; Paul being asleep after the fatigues of the morning . 
Mr. Dombey , having delivered a glass of wine to this vassal , addressed her in the following words : Miss Tox previously settling her head on one side , and making other little arrangements for engraving them on her heart . 
`` I was about to say to you , Richards , '' resumed Mr. Dombey , with an appalling glance at Mr. John , `` that I was further assisted in my decision , by the recollection of a conversation I held with your husband in this room , on the occasion of your being hired , when he disclosed to me the melancholy fact that your family , himself at their head , were sunk and steeped in ignorance . '' 
`` I am far from being friendly , '' pursued Mr. Dombey , `` to what is called by persons of levelling sentiments , general education . 
The number of her son , I believe , '' said Mr. Dombey , turning to his sister and speaking of the child as if he were a hackney coach , `` is one hundred and forty-seven . 
At the same time a vision of Biler as a Charitable Grinder , with his very small legs encased in the serviceable clothing described by Mrs. Chick , swam before Richards ' eyes , and made them water . 
Mr. Dombey receiving this announcement with perfect equanimity , they took leave of that gentleman , and presently departed under the protection of Mr. Chick ; who , when they had turned their backs upon the house and left its master in his usual solitary state , put his hands in his pockets , threw himself back in the carriage , and whistled `` With a hey ho chevy ! '' 
`` Mr. Dombey would n't like it , '' said Polly . 
`` Oh would n't he , Mrs. Richards ! '' 
retorted Nipper , `` he 'd like it very much , I think , when he was asked . '' 
`` You would n't ask him , I suppose , at all ? '' 
`` He 's cold , I think , '' said Polly , walking with him to and fro , and hushing him . 
Polly was beset by so many misgivings in the morning , that but for the incessant promptings of her black-eyed companion , she would have abandoned all thoughts of the expedition , and formally petitioned for leave to see number one hundred and forty-seven , under the awful shadow of Mr. Dombey 's roof . 
But Susan who was personally disposed in favour of the excursion , and who -LRB- like Tony Lumpkin -RRB- , if she could bear the disappointments of other people with tolerable fortitude , could not abide to disappoint herself , threw so many ingenious doubts in the way of this second thought , and stimulated the original intention with so many ingenious arguments , that almost as soon as Mr. Dombey 's stately back was turned , and that gentleman was pursuing his daily road towards the city , his unconscious son was on his way to Staggs 's Gardens . 
To this unhallowed spot , the very name of which had hitherto been carefully concealed from Mr. Dombey by his sister , was little Paul now borne by Fate and Richards . 
The conversation soon becoming general lest the black-eyed should go off at score and turn sarcastic , that young lady related to Jemima a summary of everything she knew concerning Mr. Dombey , his prospects , family , pursuits , and character . 
Mr. Dombey has gone home long ago . 
Go you to Mr. Dombey 's , and be the messenger of good news . 
Did you ever hear Mr. Dombey speak of Mr. Carker the junior , Miss Florence ? '' 
Here 's Mr. Dombey 's daughter lost in the streets , and robbed of her clothes by an old witch of a woman -- found by me -- brought home to our parlour to rest -- look here ! '' 
In the mean time , Walter proceeded towards Mr. Dombey 's house at a pace seldom achieved by a hack horse from the stand ; and yet with his head out of window every two or three minutes , in impatient remonstrance with the driver . 
Arriving at his journey 's end , he leaped out , and breathlessly announcing his errand to the servant , followed him straight into the library , where there was a great confusion of tongues , and where Mr. Dombey , his sister , and Miss Tox , Richards , and Nipper , were all congregated together . 
The boy with his open face , and flowing hair , and sparkling eyes , panting with pleasure and excitement , was wonderfully opposed to Mr. Dombey as he sat confronting him in his library chair . 
`` I told you , Louisa , that she would certainly be found , '' said Mr. Dombey , looking slightly over his shoulder at that lady , who wept in company with Miss Tox . 
Here he looked majestically at Richards . 
`` Why , I believe I found Miss Dombey , Sir , '' said Walter modestly ; `` at least I do n't know that I can claim the merit of having exactly found her , Sir , but I was the fortunate instrument of -- '' `` What do you mean , Sir , '' interrupted Mr. Dombey , regarding the boy 's evident pride and pleasure in his share of the transaction with an instinctive dislike , `` by not having exactly found my daughter , and by being a fortunate instrument ? 
said Mr. Dombey sternly to the black-eyed . 
`` You are a boy , '' said Mr. Dombey , suddenly and almost fiercely ; `` and what you think of , or affect to think of , is of little consequence . 
Mr. Dombey 's glance followed Walter Gay with sharp disfavour , as he left the room under the pilotage of Mrs. Chick ; and it may be that his mind 's eye followed him with no greater relish , as he rode back to his uncle 's with Miss Susan Nipper . 
In good time Mr. Dombey 's mansion was gained again , and again there was a noise of tongues in the library . 
Mr. Dombey , who had never found her , kissed her once upon the forehead , and cautioned her not to run away again , or wander anywhere with treacherous attendants . 
said Mr. Dombey . 
You leave this house , Richards , for taking my son -- my son '' said Mr. Dombey , emphatically repeating those two words , `` into haunts and into society which are not to be thought of without a shudder . 
Have the goodness to direct that this woman 's coach is paid to -- '' Mr. Dombey stopped and winced -- `` to Staggs 's Gardens . '' 
Mrs. Wickam was a waiter 's wife -- which would seem equivalent to being any other man 's widow -- whose application for an engagement in Mr. Dombey 's service had been favourably considered , on account of the apparent impossibility of her having any followers , or any one to follow ; and who , from within a day or two of Paul 's sharp weaning , had been engaged as his nurse . 
It is hardly necessary to observe , that no touch of this quality ever reached the magnificent knowledge of Mr. Dombey . 
It would have been remarkable , indeed , if any had ; when no one in the house -- not even Mrs. Chick or Miss Tox -- dared ever whisper to him that there had , on any one occasion , been the least reason for uneasiness in reference to little Paul . 
Mr. Dombey 's young child was , from the beginning , so distinctly important to him as a part of his own greatness , or -LRB- which is the same thing -RRB- of the greatness of Dombey and Son , that there is no doubt his parental affection might have been easily traced , like many a goodly superstructure of fair fame , to a very low foundation . 
Mr. Dombey so erect and solemn , gazing at the blaze ; his little image , with an old , old , face , peering into the red perspective with the fixed and rapt attention of a sage . 
Mr. Dombey entertaining complicated worldly schemes and plans ; the little image entertaining Heaven knows what wild fancies , half-formed thoughts , and wandering speculations . 
Mr. Dombey stiff with starch and arrogance ; the little image by inheritance , and in unconscious imitation . 
On one of these occasions , when they had both been perfectly quiet for a long time , and Mr. Dombey only knew that the child was awake by occasionally glancing at his eye , where the bright fire was sparkling like a jewel , little Paul broke silence thus : `` Papa ! 
The abrupt question had such immediate reference to the subject of Mr. Dombey 's thought , that Mr. Dombey was quite disconcerted . 
he answered . 
`` Yes , '' said the child , laying his hands upon the elbows of his little chair , and turning the old face towards Mr. Dombey 's ; `` what is money ? '' 
Mr. Dombey was in a difficulty . 
He would have liked to give him some explanation involving the terms circulating-medium , currency , depreciation of currency , paper , bullion , rates of exchange , value of precious metals in the market , and so forth ; but looking down at the little chair , and seeing what a long way down it was , he answered : `` Gold , and silver , and copper . 
said Mr. Dombey , backing his chair a little , that he might the better gaze in sheer amazement at the presumptuous atom that propounded such an inquiry . 
Mr. Dombey drew his chair back to its former place , and patted him on the head . 
`` You 'll know better bye-and-bye , my man , '' he said . 
He took hold of the little hand , and beat it softly against one of his own as he said so . 
Anything -- almost , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
asked his son : not observing , or possibly not understanding , the qualification . 
`` It includes it : yes , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
said Mr. Dombey , settling his neckcloth , and seeming to resent the idea . 
Mr. Dombey having recovered from his surprise , not to say his alarm -LRB- for it was the very first occasion on which the child had ever broached the subject of his mother to him , though he had had him sitting by his side , in this same manner , evening after evening -RRB- , expounded to him how that money , though a very potent spirit , never to be disparaged on any account whatever , could not keep people alive whose time was come to die ; and how that we must all die unfortunately , even in the city , though we were never so rich . 
This , with more to the same purpose , Mr. Dombey instilled into the mind of his son , who listened attentively , and seemed to understand the greater part of what was said to him . 
`` Why , you are strong and quite well , '' returned Mr. Dombey . 
said Mr. Dombey . 
But that 's at night , '' said Mr. Dombey , drawing his own chair closer to his son 's , and laying his hand gently on his back ; `` little people should be tired at night , for then they sleep well . '' 
And he went on , warming his hands again , and thinking about them , like an old man or a young goblin . 
Mr. Dombey was so astonished , and so uncomfortable , and so perfectly at a loss how to pursue the conversation , that he could only sit looking at his son by the light of the fire , with his hand resting on his back , as if it were detained there by some magnetic attraction . 
Once he advanced his other hand , and turned the contemplative face towards his own for a moment . 
But it sought the fire again as soon as he released , it ; and remained , addressed towards the flickering blaze , until the nurse appeared , to summon him to bed . 
The child immediately started up with sudden readiness and animation , and raised towards his father in bidding him good night , a countenance so much brighter , so much younger , and so much more child-like altogether , that Mr. Dombey , while he felt greatly re-assured by the change , was quite amazed at it . 
After they had left the room together , he thought he heard a soft voice singing ; and remembering that Paul had said his sister sung to him , he had the curiosity to open the door and listen , and look after them . 
Mr. Dombey looked after them until they reached the top of the staircase -- not without halting to rest by the way -- and passed out of his sight ; and then he still stood gazing upward , until the dull rays of the moon , glimmering in a melancholy manner through the dim skylight , sent him back to his own room . 
Mrs. Chick and Miss Tox were convoked in council at dinner next day ; and when the cloth was removed , Mr. Dombey opened the proceedings by requiring to be informed , without any gloss or reservation , whether there was anything the matter with Paul , and what Mr. Pilkins said about him . 
`` For the child is hardly , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` as stout as I could wish . '' 
-- '' `` I am afraid , '' said Mr. Dombey , interrupting her testily , `` that some of those persons upstairs suggest improper subjects to the child . 
He was speaking to me last night about his -- about his Bones , '' said Mr. Dombey , laying an irritated stress upon the word . 
said Mr. Dombey . 
If the dear child , '' pursued Mrs. Chick , in the tone of one who was summing up what had been previously quite agreed upon , instead of saying it all for the first time , `` is a little weakened by that last attack , and is not in quite such vigorous health as we could wish ; and if he has some temporary weakness in his system , and does occasionally seem about to lose , for the moment , the use of his -- '' Mrs. Chick was afraid to say limbs , after Mr. Dombey 's recent objection to bones , and therefore waited for a suggestion from Miss Tox , who , true to her office , hazarded `` members . '' 
repeated Mr. Dombey . 
`` Surely you must know , Louisa , '' observed Mr. Dombey , `` that I do n't question your natural devotion to , and natural regard for , the future head of my house . 
said Mr. Dombey . 
`` Yes , he did , '' returned his sister . 
`` Sea-air , '' repeated Mr. Dombey , looking at his sister . 
asked Mr. Dombey ; aghast at this familiar introduction of a name he had never heard before . 
`` Mrs. Pipchin , my dear Paul , '' returned his sister , `` is an elderly lady -- Miss Tox knows her whole history -- who has for some time devoted all the energies of her mind , with the greatest success , to the study and treatment of infancy , and who has been extremely well connected . 
`` Not being a Pumper himself , of course , '' said Mrs. Chick , glancing at her brother ; and it really did seem necessary to offer the explanation , for Miss Tox had spoken of him as if he had died at the handle ; `` but having invested money in the speculation , which failed . 
inquired Mr. Dombey , condescendingly . 
Besides , Mr. Dombey was in a state almost amounting to consternation at the idea of Paul remaining where he was one hour after his removal had been recommended by the medical practitioner . 
Broke his heart of the Peruvian mines , mused Mr. Dombey . 
inquired Mr. Dombey , after some reflection . 
`` I do n't think you could send the child at anywhere at present without Florence , my dear Paul , '' returned his sister , hesitating . 
Mr. Dombey turned his head away , and going slowly to the book-case , and unlocking it , brought back a book to read . 
he said , without looking up , and turning over the leaves . 
Wickam would be quite sufficient , I should say , '' returned his sister . 
`` Of course , '' said Mr. Dombey ; and sat looking at one page for an hour afterwards , without reading one word . 
Within three days after Mrs. Chick 's first allusion to her , this excellent old lady had the satisfaction of anticipating a handsome addition to her current receipts , from the pocket of Mr. Dombey ; and of receiving Florence and her little brother Paul , as inmates of the Castle . 
On Saturday Mr. Dombey came down ; and Florence and Paul would go to his Hotel , and have tea . 
They passed the whole of Sunday with him , and generally rode out before dinner ; and on these occasions Mr. Dombey seemed to grow , like Falstaff 's assailants , and instead of being one man in buckram , to become a dozen . 
It may be that he became a little smarter in his dress , after that memorable occasion ; and he certainly liked in his leisure time to walk towards that quarter of the town where Mr. Dombey 's house was situated , on the vague chance of passing little Florence in the street . 
Florence was defenceless and weak , and it was a proud thought that he had been able to render her any protection and assistance . 
Florence was neglected and coldly looked upon , and his breast was full of youthful interest for the slighted child , in her dull , stately home . 
Sometimes he thought -LRB- and then he walked very fast -RRB- what a grand thing it would have been for him to have been going to sea on the day after that first meeting , and to have gone , and to have done wonders there , and to have stopped away a long time , and to have come back an Admiral of all the colours of the dolphin , or at least a Post-Captain with epaulettes of insupportable brightness , and have married Florence -LRB- then a beautiful young woman -RRB- in spite of Mr. Dombey 's teeth , cravat , and watch-chain , and borne her away to the blue shores of somewhere or other , triumphantly . 
`` Mr. Dombey ! '' 
`` Look at him , '' he said . 
If they was to sell off these things now , he 'd die of it . 
You know he would . 
-- Mr. Dombey ! '' 
`` You run round to the office , first of all , and see if he 's there , '' said Captain Cuttle , clapping him on the back . 
He soon returned , out of breath , to say that Mr. Dombey was not there . 
It was Saturday , and he had gone to Brighton . 
If the application must be made to Mr. Dombey at all , which was awful to think of , Walter felt that he would rather prefer it alone and unassisted , than backed by the personal influence of Captain , Cuttle , to which he hardly though Mr. Dombey would attach much weight . 
Cuttle , therefore , taking a hurried leave of Solomon Gills , and returning the ready money , the teaspoons , the sugar-tongs , and the silver watch , to his pocket -- with a view , as Walter thought , with horror , to making a gorgeous impression on Mr. Dombey -- bore him off to the coach-office , without a minute 's delay , and repeatedly assured him , on the road , that he would stick by him to the last . 
But the Major , with his complexion like a Stilton cheese , and his eyes like a prawn 's , went roving about , perfectly indifferent to Master Bitherstone 's amusement , and dragging Master Bitherstone along , while he looked about him high and low , for Mr. Dombey and his children . 
In good time the Major , previously instructed by Mrs. Pipchin , spied out Paul and Florence , and bore down upon them ; there being a stately gentleman -LRB- Mr. Dombey , doubtless -RRB- in their company . 
Upon that the Major stopped to notice and admire them ; remembered with amazement that he had seen and spoken to them at his friend Miss Tox 's in Princess 's Place ; opined that Paul was a devilish fine fellow , and his own little friend ; inquired if he remembered Joey B. the Major ; and finally , with a sudden recollection of the conventionalities of life , turned and apologised to Mr. Dombey . 
`` Mr. Dombey begged he Would n't mention it . 
`` An old campaigner , Sir , '' said the Major , `` a smoke-dried , sunburnt , used-up , invalided old dog of a Major , Sir , was not afraid of being condemned for his whim by a man like Mr. Dombey . 
I have the honour of addressing Mr. Dombey , I believe ? '' 
`` I am the present unworthy representative of that name , Major , '' returned Mr. Dombey . 
It 's a name , Sir , '' said the Major firmly , as if he defied Mr. Dombey to contradict him , and would feel it his painful duty to bully him if he did , `` that is known and honoured in the British possessions abroad . 
`` You are good enough to rate it higher than it deserves perhaps , Major , '' returned Mr. Dombey . 
Take care of him , Mr. Dombey . '' 
Mr. Dombey seemed to intimate that he would endeavour to do so . 
Mr. Dombey glanced at the libelled Master Bitherstone of whom he knew at least as much as the Major did , and said , in quite a complacent manner , `` Really ? '' 
`` My little friend is destined for a public school , I presume , Mr. Dombey ? '' 
`` I am not quite decided , '' returned Mr. Dombey . 
He is delicate . '' 
`` If he 's delicate , Sir , '' said the Major , `` you are right . 
Are you remaining here , Mr. Dombey ? '' 
`` Joey B. , Sir , is not in general a calling man , but Mr. Dombey 's is not a common name . 
Mr. Dombey made a very gracious reply ; and Major Bagstock , having patted Paul on the head , and said of Florence that her eyes would play the Devil with the youngsters before long -- `` and the oldsters too , Sir , if you come to that , '' added the Major , chuckling very much -- stirred up Master Bitherstone with his walking-stick , and departed with that young gentleman , at a kind of half-trot ; rolling his head and coughing with great dignity , as he staggered away , with his legs very wide asunder . 
In fulfilment of his promise , the Major afterwards called on Mr. Dombey ; and Mr. Dombey , having referred to the army list , afterwards called on the Major . 
Then the Major called at Mr. Dombey 's house in town ; and came down again , in the same coach as Mr. Dombey . 
In short , Mr. Dombey and the Major got on uncommonly well together , and uncommonly fast : and Mr. Dombey observed of the Major , to his sister , that besides being quite a military man he was really something more , as he had a very admirable idea of the importance of things unconnected with w profession . 
At length Mr. Dombey , bringing down Miss Tox and Mrs. Chick to see the children , and finding the Major again at Brighton , invited him to dinner at the Bedford , and complimented Miss Tox highy , beforehand , on her neighbour and acquaintance . 
Mr. Dombey 's habitual silence and reserve yielding readily to this usurpation , the Major felt that he was coming out and shining : and in the flow of spirits thus engendered , rang such an infinite number of new changes on his own name that he quite astonished himself . 
The Major was considered to possess an inexhaustible fund of conversation ; and when he took a late farewell , after a long rubber , Mr. Dombey again complimented the blushing Miss Tox on her neighbour , and acquaintance . 
But all the way home to his own hotel , the Major incessantly said to himself , and of himself , `` Sly , Sir -- sly , Sir -- de-vil-ish sly ! '' 
And when he got there , sat down in a chair , and fell into a silent fit of laughter , with which he was sometimes seized , and which was always particularly awful . 
It held him so long on this occasion that the dark servant , who stood watching him at a distance , but dared not for his life approach , twice or thrice gave him over for lost . 
It was on the day after this occasion -LRB- being Sunday -RRB- when , as Mr. Dombey , Mrs. Chick , and Miss Tox were sitting at breakfast , still eulogizing the Major , Florence came running in : her face suffused with a bright colour , and her eyes sparkling joyfully : and cried , `` Papa ! 
cried Mr. Dombey . 
inquired Mr. Dombey , knitting his brows . 
Mrs. Chick hurried into the passage , and returned with the information that it was young Gay , accompanied by a very strange-looking person ; and that young Gay said he would not take the liberty of coming in , hearing Mr. Dombey was at breakfast , but would wait until Mr. Dombey should signify that he might approach . 
`` Tell the boy to come in now , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
But Mr. Dombey , without attending to what he said , was looking impatiently on either side of him -LRB- as if he were a pillar in his way -RRB- at some object behind . 
said Mr. Dombey . 
At the same time the Captain , coming a little further in , brought out his wide suit of blue , his conspicuous shirt-collar , and his knobby nose in full relief , and stood bowing to Mr. Dombey , and waving his hook politely to the ladies , with the hard glazed hat in his one hand , and a red equator round his head which it had newly imprinted there . 
Mr. Dombey regarded this phenomenon with amazement and indignation , and seemed by his looks to appeal to Mrs. Chick and Miss Tox against it . 
`` Now , Gay , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
said Mr. Dombey , following his eyes as he glanced at the attentive Florence , and frowning unconsciously as she encouraged him with a smile . 
`` Aye , aye , '' observed the Captain , considering it incumbent on him , as a point of good breeding , to support Mr. Dombey . 
Go on , Wal ` r. '' Captain Cuttle ought to have been withered by the look which Mr. Dombey bestowed upon him in acknowledgment of his patronage . 
But quite innocent of this , he closed one eye in reply , and gave Mr. Dombey to understand , by certain significant motions of his hook , that Walter was a little bashful at first , and might be expected to come out shortly . 
Go on , Wal ` r. '' `` And therefore , Sir , '' said Walter , venturing to meet Mr. Dombey 's eye , and proceeding with better courage in the very desperation of the case , now that there was no avoiding it , `` therefore I have come , with him , Sir , to say that my poor old uncle is in very great affliction and distress That , through the gradual loss of his business , and not being able to make a payment , the apprehension of which has weighed very heavily upon his mind , months and months , as indeed I know , Sir , he has an execution in his house , and is in danger of losing all he has , and breaking his heart . 
Considering this a favourable moment for the display of the valuables , Captain Cuttle advanced to the table ; and clearing a space among the breakfast-cups at Mr. Dombey 's elbow , produced the silver watch , the ready money , the teaspoons , and the sugar-tongs ; and piling them up into a heap that they might look as precious as possible , delivered himself of these words : `` Half a loaf 's better than no bread , and the same remark holds good with crumbs . 
When Walter ceased to speak , Mr. Dombey 's eyes were attracted to little Paul , who , seeing his sister hanging down her head and silently weeping , in her commiseration for the distress she had heard described , went over to her , and tried to comfort her : looking at Walter and his father , as he did so , with a very expressive face . 
After the momentary distraction of Captain Cuttle 's address , which he regarded with lofty indifference , Mr. Dombey again turned his eyes upon his son , and sat steadily regarding the child , for some moments , in silence . 
asked Mr. Dombey , at length . 
`` People who have enough to do to hold their own way , '' said Mr. Dombey , unobservant of the Captain 's mysterious signs behind Walter , and still looking at his son , `` had better be content with their own obligations and difficulties , and not increase them by engaging for other men . 
It is an act of dishonesty , and presumption too , '' said Mr. Dombey , sternly ; `` great presumption ; for the wealthy could do no more . 
The child obeyed : and Mr. Dombey took him on his knee . 
`` If you had money now -- '' said Mr. Dombey . 
Paul , whose eyes had wandered to his sister , and to Walter , looked his father in the face . 
`` If you had money now , '' said Mr. Dombey ; `` as much money as young Gay has talked about ; what would you do ? '' 
retorted Mr. Dombey . 
`` Dombey and Son , '' repeated his father . 
`` Girls , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` have nothing to do with Dombey and Son . 
`` Then you shall do it , '' returned his father . 
`` And you see , Paul , '' he added , dropping his voice , `` how powerful money is , and how anxious people are to get it . 
Mr. Dombey then turned to a side-table , and wrote a note and sealed it . 
During the interval , Paul and Florence whispered to Walter , and Captain Cuttle beamed on the three , with such aspiring and ineffably presumptuous thoughts as Mr. Dombey never could have believed in . 
The note being finished , Mr. Dombey turned round to his former place , and held it out to Walter . 
`` Give that , '' he said , `` the first thing to-morrow morning , to Mr. Carker . 
But Mr. Dombey stopped him short . 
`` You will consider that it is done , '' he repeated , `` by Master Paul . 
As he motioned towards the door , Walter could only bow his head and retire . 
`` My dear Sir , '' she said , addressing Mr. Dombey , at whose munificence both she and mrs. Chick were shedding tears copiously ; `` I think you have overlooked something . 
Pardon me , Mr. Dombey , I think , in the nobility of your character , and its exalted scope , you have omitted a matter of detail . '' 
said Mr. Dombey . 
`` said Mr. Dombey , sweeping the Captain 's property from him , as if it were so much crumb indeed . 
But he was so much struck by the magnanimity of Mr. Dombey , in refusing treasures lying heaped up to his hand , that when he had deposited the teaspoons and sugar-tongs in one pocket , and the ready money in another , and had lowered the great watch down slowly into its proper vault , he could not refrain from seizing that gentleman 's right hand in his own solitary left , and while he held it open with his powerful fingers , bringing the hook down upon its palm in a transport of admiration . 
At this touch of warm feeling and cold iron , Mr. Dombey shivered all over . 
Captain Cuttle then kissed his hook to the ladies several times , with great elegance and gallantry ; and having taken a particular leave of Paul and Florence , accompanied Walter out of the room . 
Florence was running after them in the earnestness of her heart , to send some message to old Sol , when Mr. Dombey called her back , and bade her stay where she was . 
She would have run and thrown her arms about his neck if she had dared ; but as she did not dare , she glanced with thankful eyes towards him , as he sat musing ; sometimes bestowing an uneasy glance on her , but , for the most part , watching Paul , who walked about the room with the new-blown dignity of having let young Gay have the money . 
But without the least impeachment of his gratitude to Mr. Dombey , it must be confessed that Walter was humbled and cast down . 
They had been home twice , but only for a few days ; and had been constant in their weekly visits to Mr. Dombey at the hotel . 
One Saturday afternoon , at dusk , great consternation was occasioned in the castle by the unlooked-for announcement of Mr. Dombey as a visitor to Mrs. Pipchin . 
The population of the parlour was immediately swept up-stairs as on the wings of a whirlwind , and after much slamming of bedroom doors , and trampling overhead , and some knocking about of Master Bitherstone by Mrs. Pipchin , as a relief to the perturbation of her spirits , the black bombazeen garments of the worthy old lady darkened the audience-chamber where Mr. Dombey was contemplating the vacant arm-chair of his son and heir . 
`` Mrs. Pipchin , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` How do you do ? '' 
Mr. Dombey inclined his head with the satisfied air of a patron , who felt that this was the sort of thing for which he paid so much a quarter . 
After a moment 's silence he went on to say : `` Mrs. Pipchin , I have taken the liberty of calling , to consult you in reference to my son . 
`` I purpose , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` his remaining at Brighton . '' 
`` But , '' pursued Mr. Dombey , stretching out his forefinger , `` but possibly that he should now make a change , and lead a different kind of life here . 
There was something melancholy in the triumphant air with which Mr. Dombey said this . 
It shewed how long Paul 's childish life had been to him , and how his hopes were set upon a later stage of his existence . 
Pity may appear a strange word to connect with any one so haughty and so cold , and yet he seemed a worthy subject for it at that moment . 
said Mr. Dombey , settling his neckcloth -- perhaps to hide an irrepressible smile that rather seemed to strike upon the surface of his face and glance away , as finding no resting place , than to play there for an instant . 
`` It depends on circumstances , '' returned Mr. Dombey ; `` at all events , Mrs. Pipchin , my son is six years old , and there is no doubt , I fear , that in his studies he is behind many children of his age -- or his youth , '' said Mr. Dombey , quickly answering what he mistrusted was a shrewd twinkle of the frosty eye , `` his youth is a more appropriate expression . 
`` I was quite sure , Mrs. Pipchin , '' returned Mr. Dombey , approvingly , `` that a person of your good sense could not , and would not . '' 
''' `` My good madam , '' returned Mr. Dombey , `` you have not acquired your reputation undeservedly ; and I beg you to believe , Mrs. Pipchin , that I am more than satisfied with your excellent system of management , and shall have the greatest pleasure in commending it whenever my poor commendation '' -- Mr. Dombey 's loftiness when he affected to disparage his own importance , passed all bounds -- `` can be of any service . 
`` And it 's very expensive '' added Mr. Dombey . 
`` I have had some communication with the Doctor , Mrs. Pipchin , '' said Mr. Dombey , hitching his chair anxiously a little nearer to the fire , `` and he does not consider Paul at all too young for his purpose . 
Whether their separation -- '' Mr. Dombey said no more , but sat silent . 
`` If she do n't like it , Mr. Dombey , she must be taught to lump it . '' 
Mr. Dombey waited until Mrs. Pipchin had done bridling and shaking her head , and frowning down a legion of Bitherstones and Pankeys ; and then said quietly , but correctively , `` He , my good madam ; he . '' 
Mrs. Pipchin 's system would have applied very much the same mode of cure to any uneasiness on the part of Paul , too ; but as the hard grey eye was sharp enough to see that the recipe , however Mr. Dombey might admit its efficacy in the case of the daughter , was not a sovereign remedy for the son , she argued the point ; and contended that change , and new socicty , and the different form of life he would lead at Doctor Blimber 's , and the studies he would have to master , would very soon prove sufficient alicnations . 
As this chimed in with Mr. Dombey 's own hope and belief , it gave that gentleman a still higher opinion of Mrs. Pipchin 's understanding ; and as Mrs. Pipchin , at the same time , bewailed the loss of her dear little friend -LRB- which was not an overwhelming shock to her , as she had long expected it , and had not looked , in the beginning , for his remaining with her longer than three months -RRB- , he formed an equally good opinion of Mrs. Pipchin 's disinterestedness . 
This would wean him by degrees , Mr. Dombey said : probably with a recollection of his not having been weaned by degrees on a former occasion . 
Mr. Dombey finished the interview by expressing his hope that Mrs. Pipchin would still remain in office as general superintendent and overseer of his son , pending his studies at Brighton ; and having kissed Paul , and shaken hands with Florence , and beheld Master Bitherstone in his collar of state , and made Miss Pankey cry by patting her on the head -LRB- in which region she was uncommonly tender , on account of a habit Mrs. Pipchin had of sounding it with her knuckles , like a cask -RRB- , he withdrew to his hotel and dinner : resolved that Paul , now that he was getting so old and well , should begin a vigorous course of education forthwith , to qualify him for the position in which he was to shine ; and that Doctor Blimber should take him in hand immediately . 
`` Now , Paul , '' said Mr. Dombey exultingly . 
Even his childish agitation could not master the sly and quaint yet touching look , with which he accompanied the reply . 
It brought a vague expression of dissatisfaction into Mr. Dombey 's face ; but the door being opened , it was quickly gone . 
said Mr. Dombey . 
Go and tell your master that Mr. Dombey 's here , or it 'll be worse for you ! '' 
said Mr. Dombey , looking round . 
he was a precious fellow '' -- leaving the young man , who was all meekness and incapacity , affected even to tears by the incident . 
`` And how do you , Sir , '' he said to Mr. Dombey , `` and how is my little friend ? '' 
The little friend being something too small to be seen at all from where the Doctor sat , over the books on his table , the Doctor made several futile attempts to get a view of him round the legs ; which Mr. Dombey perceiving , relieved the Doctor from his embarrassment by taking Paul up in his arms , and sitting him on another little table , over against the Doctor , in the middle of the room . 
added Mr. Dombey ; Paul being silent . 
`` Never mind , '' said the Doctor , blandly nodding his head , to keep Mrs. Pipchin back , `` Ne-ver mind ; we shall substitute new cares and new impression , Mr. Dombey , very shortly . 
You would still wish my little friend to acquire -- `` Everything , if you please , Doctor , '' returned Mr. Dombey , firmly . 
Quite a virgin soil , I believe you said , Mr. Dombey ? '' 
`` Except some ordinary preparation at home , and from this lady , '' replied Mr. Dombey , introducing Mrs. Pipchin , who instantly communicated a rigidity to her whole muscular system and snorted defiance beforehand , in case the Doctor should disparage her ; `` except so far , Paul has , as yet , applied himself to no studies at all . '' 
`` That circumstance , indeed , Doctor Blimber , '' pursued Mr. Dombey , glancing at his little son , `` and the interview I have already had the pleasure of holding with you , renders any further explanation , and consequently , any further intrusion on your valuable time , so unnecessary , that -- '' `` Now , Miss Dombey ! '' 
Mrs. Blimber , '' for the lady , who had perhaps been in waiting , opportunely entered , followed by her daughter , that fair Sexton in spectacles , `` Mr. Dombey . 
My daughter Cornelia , Mr. Dombey . 
Mr. Dombey , my love , '' pursued the Doctor , turning to his wife , `` is so confiding as to -- do you see our little friend ? '' 
Mrs. Blimber , in an access of politeness , of which Mr. Dombey was the object , apparently did not , for she was backing against the little friend , and very much endangering his position on the table . 
But , on this hint , she turned to admire his classical and intellectual lineaments , and turning again to Mr. Dombey , said , with a sigh , that she envied his dear son . 
It may appear remarkable , Mr. Dombey , in one who is a wife -- the wife of such a husband -- '' `` Hush , hush , '' said Doctor Blimber . 
`` Fie for shame , '' `` Mr. Dombey will forgive the partiality of a wife , '' said Mrs. Blimber , with an engaging smile . 
Mr. Dombey answered `` Not at all : '' applying those words , it is to be presumed , to the partiality , and not to the forgiveness . 
`` And such a mother , '' observed Mr. Dombey , bowing with some confused idea of being complimentary to Cornelia . 
`` But really , '' pursued Mrs. Blimber , `` I think if I could have known Cicero , and been his friend , and talked with him in his retirement at Tusculum -LRB- beau-ti-ful Tusculum ! -RRB- 
`` A learned enthusiasm is so very contagious , that Mr. Dombey half believed this was exactly his case ; and even Mrs. Pipchin , who was not , as we have seen , of an accommodating disposition generally , gave utterance to a little sound between a groan and a sigh , as if she would have said that nobody but Cicero could have proved a lasting consolation under that failure of the Peruvian Mines , but that he indeed would have been a very Davy-lamp of refuge . 
Cornelia looked at Mr. Dombey through her spectacle , as if she would have liked to crack a few quotations with him form the authority in question . 
Mr. Dombey , Sir . '' 
Our head boy , Mr. Dombey . '' 
`` Ask Mr. Feeder , if you please , Toots , '' said the Doctor , `` to prepare a few introductory volumes for Mr. Dombey 's son , and to allot him a convenient seat for study . 
My dear , I believe Mr. Dombey has not seen the dormitories . '' 
`` If Mr. Dombey will walk up stairs , '' said Mrs. Blimber , `` I shall be more than proud to show him the dominions of the drowsy God . '' 
With that , Mrs. Blimber , who was a lady of great suavity , and a wiry figure and who wore a cap composed of sky-blue materials , proceeded up stairs with Mr. Dombey and Cornelia ; Mrs. Pipchin following , and looking out sharp for her enemy the footman . 
Mr. Dombey and his conductress were soon heard coming down stairs again , talking all the way ; and presently they re-entered the Doctor 's study . 
`` I hope , Mr. Dombey , '' said the Doctor , laying down his book , `` that the arrangements meet your approval . 
`` They are excellent , Sir , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
`` Mrs. Pipchin , '' said Mr. Dombey , wheeling round , `` will , with your permission , Doctor and Mrs. Blimber , visit Paul now and then . '' 
`` I think , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` I have now given all the trouble I need , and may take my leave , Paul , my child , '' he went close to him , as he sat upon the table . 
The limp and careless little hand that Mr. Dombey took in his , was singularly out of keeping with the wistful face . 
But he had no part in its sorrowful expression . 
It was not addressed to him . 
If Mr. Dombey in his insolence of wealth , had ever made an enemy , hard to appease and cruelly vindictive in his hate , even such an enemy might have received the pang that wrung his proud heart then , as compensation for his injury . 
He bent down over his boy , and kissed him . 
If his sight were dimmed as he did so , by something that for a moment blurred the little face , and made it indistinct to him , his mental vision may have been , for that short time , the clearer perhaps . 
`` And you 'll try and learn a great deal here , and be a clever man , '' said Mr. Dombey ; `` wo n't you ? '' 
said Mr. Dombey . 
Once more the old , old look , passed rapidly across his features like a strange light . 
The move on her part roused Mr. Dombey , whose eyes were fixed on Paul . 
`` He 's no more a monster than you are . '' 
When Doctor Blimber said he made great progress , and was naturally clever , Mr. Dombey was more bent than ever on his being forced and crammed . 
Mr. Dombey 's offices were in a court where there was an old-established stall of choice fruit at the corner : where perambulating merchants , of both sexes , offered for sale at any time between the hours of ten and five , slippers , pocket-books , sponges , dogs ' collars , and Windsor soap ; and sometimes a pointer or an oil painting . 
The other commodities were addressed to the general public ; but they were never offered by the vendors to Mr. Dombey . 
When he appeared , the dealers in those wares fell off respectfully . 
The principal slipper and dogs 's collar man -- who considered himself a public character , and whose portrait was screwed on to an artist 's door in Cheapside -- threw up his forefinger to the brim of his hat as Mr. Dombey went by . 
The ticket-porter , if he were not absent on a job , always ran officiously before , to open Mr. Dombey 's office door as wide as possible , and hold it open , with his hat off , while he entered . 
A solemn hush prevailed , as Mr. Dombey passed through the outer office . 
The wit of the Counting-House became in a moment as mute , as the row of leathern fire-buckets , hanging up behind him . 
When Perch the messenger , whose place was on a little bracket , like a timepiece , saw Mr. Dombey come in -- or rather when he felt that he was coming , for he had usually an instinctive sense of his approach -- he hurried into Mr. Dombey 's room , stirred the fire , quarried fresh coals from the bowels of the coal box , hung the newspaper to air upon the fender , put the chair ready , and the screen in its place , and was round upon his heel on the instant of Mr. Dombey 's entrance , to take his great coat and hat , and hang them up . 
Then Perch took the newspaper , and gave it a turn or two in his hands before the fire , and laid it , deferentially , at Mr. Dombey 's elbow . 
And so little objection had Perch to doing deferential in the last degree , that if he might have laid himself at Mr. Dombey 's feet , or might have called him by some much title as used to be bestowed upon the Caliph Haroun Alraschid , he would have been all the better pleased . 
Between Mr. Dombey and the common world , as it was accessible through the medium of the outer office -- to which Mr. Dombey 's presence in his own room may be said to have struck like damp , or cold air -- there were two degrees of descent . 
Each of these gentlemen occupied a little chamber like a bath room , opening from the passage outside Mr. Dombey 's door . 
He had a mighty respect for Mr. Dombey , and rendered him due homage : but as he was of a genial temper himelf , and never wholly at his ease in that stately presence , he was disquieted by no jealousy of the many conferences enjoyed by Mr. Carker , and felt a secret satisfaction in having duties to discharge , which rarely exposed him to be singled out for such distinction . 
His manner towards Mr. Dombey was deeply conceived and perfectly expressed . 
He was familiar with him , in the very extremity of his sense of the distance between them . 
`` Mr. Dombey , to a man in your position from a man in mine , there is no show of subservience compatible with the transaction of business between us , that I should think sufficient . 
I feel that I could not satisfy my own mind ; and Heaven knows , Mr. Dombey , you can afford to dispense with the endeavour . '' 
If he had carried these words about with him printed on a placard , and had constantly offered it to Mr. Dombey 's perusal on the breast of his coat , he could not have been more explicit than he was . 
said Mr. Carker the Manager , entering Mr. Dombey 's room soon after his arrival one day : with a bundle of papers in his hand . 
said Mr. Dombey , rising from his chair , and standing with his back to the fire . 
`` And one at three , three , quarters , '' added Mr. Dombey . 
`` You have an accurate memory of your own , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
`` It 's the only capital of a man like me , '' Mr. Dombey did not look less pompous or at all displeased , as he stood leaning against the chimney-piece , surveying his -LRB- of course unconscious -RRB- clerk , from head to foot . 
He seemed a man who would contend against the power that vanquished him , if he could , but who was utterly borne down by the greatness and superiority of Mr. Dombey . 
asked Mr. Dombey after a short pause , during which Mr. Carker had been fluttering his papers , and muttering little abstracts of their contents to himself . 
`` You respect nobody , Carker , I think , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
inquired Carker , with another wide and most feline show of his teeth . 
I would n't answer perhaps , '' he murmured , as if he were only thinking it , `` for more than one . '' 
A dangerous quality , if real ; and a not less dangerous one , if feigned But Mr. Dombey hardly seemed to think so , as he still stood with his back to the fire , drawn up to his full height , and looking at his head-clerk with a dignified composure , in which there seemed to lurk a stronger latent sense of power than usual . 
Mr. Dombey shook his head with supreme indifference . 
He cast his eyes full on Mr. Dombey with an altered and apologetic look , abased them on the ground , and remained for a moment without speaking . 
`` I thought , Sir , '' he said suddenly and angrily , turning on Walter , `` that you had been before requested not to drag Mr. Carker the Junior into your conversation . '' 
`` I was only going to say that Mr. Carker the Junior had told me he believed you were gone out , or I should not have knocked at the door when you were engaged with Mr. Dombey . 
These are letters for Mr. Dombey , Sir . '' 
But in taking them with so little ceremony , Mr. Carker dropped one on the floor , and did not see what he had done ; neither did Mr. Dombey observe the letter lying near his feet . 
Walter hesitated for a moment , thinking that one or other of them would notice it ; but finding that neither did , he stopped , came back , picked it up , and laid it himself on Mr. Dombey 's desk . 
Mr. Dombey , having his attention silently called to this letter by Walter , started and looked fiercely at him , as if he believed that he had purposely selected it from all the rest . 
said Mr. Dombey , haughtily . 
He crushed the letter in his hand ; and having watched Walter out at the door , put it in his pocket without breaking the seal . 
`` You want somebody to send to the West Indies , you were saying , '' observed Mr. Dombey , hurriedly . 
''' `` Call him back , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
`` Gay , '' said Mr. Dombey , turning a little to look at him over his shoulder . 
I am going to send you , '' said Mr. Dombey , scorning to embellish the bare truth , `` to fill a junior situation in the counting-house at Barbados . 
Walter 's breath was so completely taken away by his astonishment , that he could hardly find enough for the repetition of the words `` West Indies . '' 
`` Somebody must go , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` and you are young and healthy , and your uncle 's circumstances are not good . 
repeated Mr. Dombey , turning a little more round towards him . 
`` Certainly , '' returned Mr. Dombey . 
`` That 's all , '' said Mr. Dombey , resuming his letters . 
`` Unless , '' said Mr. Dombey , stopping in his reading without looking off the letter , and seeming to listen . 
`` He need n't wait , Carker , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
And as Mr. Carker again echoed the words , and also collected his papers as if he were going away too , Walter felt that his lingering any longer would be an unpardonable intrusion -- especially as he had nothing to say -- and therefore walked out quite confounded . 
Going along the passage , with the mingled consciousness and helplessness of a dream , he heard Mr. Dombey 's door shut again , as Mr. Carker came out : and immediately afterwards that gentleman called to him . 
That gentleman was standing with his back to the fire , and his hands under his coat-tails , looking over his white cravat , as unpromisingly as Mr. Dombey himself could have looked . 
He received them without any change in his attitude or softening of his harsh and black expression : merely signing to Walter to close the door . 
Dombey did n't seem to be absolutely blinded by the light let in upon his intellect , but he made Miss Blimber a little bow . 
Paul , looking at it , found , in copper-plate print , with the exception of his own name and the date , which were in Mr. Feeder 's penmanship , that Doctor and Mrs. Blimber requested the pleasure of Mr. P. Dombey 's company at an early party on Wednesday Evening the Seventeenth Instant ; and that the hour was half-past seven o'clock ; and that the object was Quadrilles . 
Mr. Feeder then gave him to understand that he would be expected to inform Doctor and Mrs. Blimber , in superfine small-hand , that Mr. P. Dombey would be happy to have the honour of waiting on them , in accordance with their polite invitation . 
That he would write to Mr. Dombey , when he should have gained a better knowledge of the case , and before that day . 
He had to think of a portrait on the stairs , which always looked earnestly after him as he went away , eyeing it over his shoulder ; and which , when he passed it in the company of any one , still seemed to gaze at him , and not at his companion . 
He had much to think of , in association with a print that hung up in another place , where , in the centre of a wondering group , one figure that he knew , a figure with a light about its head -- benignant , mild , and merciful -- stood pointing upward . 
At his own bedroom window , there were crowds of thoughts that mixed with these , and came on , one upon another , one upon another , like the rolling waves . 
Where those wild birds lived , that were always hovering out at sea in troubled weather ; where the clouds rose , and first began ; whence the wind issued on its rushing flight , and where it stopped ; whether the spot where he and Florence had so often sat , and watched , and talked about these things , could ever be exactly as it used to be without them ; whether it could ever be the same to Florence , if he were in some distant place , and she were sitting there alone . 
He had to think , too , of Mr. Toots , and Mr. Feeder , B. A. ; of all the boys ; and of Doctor Blimber , Mrs. Blimber , and Miss Blimber ; of home , and of his aunt and Miss Tox ; of his father , Dombey and Son , Walter with the poor old uncle who had got the money he wanted , and that gruff-voiced Captain with the iron hand . 
Walter could not , for several days , decide what to do in the Barbados business ; and even cherished some faint hope that Mr. Dombey might not have meant what he had said , or that he might change his mind , and tell him he was not to go . 
But as nothing occurred to give this idea -LRB- which was sufficiently improbable in itself -RRB- any touch of confirmation , and as time was slipping by , and he had none to lose , he felt that he must act , without hesitating any longer . 
Uncle Sol had paid the first appointed portion of the debt to Mr. Dombey , and was hopeful of working his way through the rest ; and to cast him down afresh , when he had sprung up so manfully from his troubles , was a very distressing necessity . 
Yet it would never do to run away from him . 
He must know of it beforehand ; and how to tell him , was the point . 
Mr. Dombey had truly told him that he was young , and that his uncle 's circumstances were not good ; and Mr. Dombey had plainly expressed , in the glance with which he had accompanied that reminder , that if he declined to go he might stay at home if he chose , but not in his counting-house . 
His uncle and he lay under a great obligation to Mr. Dombey , which was of Walter 's own soliciting . 
When Mr. Dombey had looked at him , and told him he was young , an that his uncle 's circumstances were not good , there had been an expression of disdain in his face ; a contemptuous and disparaging assumption that he would be quite content to live idly on a reduced old man , which stung the boy 's generous soul . 
Determined to assure Mr. Dombey , in so far as it was possible to give him the assurance without expressing it in words , that indeed he mistook his nature , Walter had been anxious to show even more cheerfulness and activity after the West-Indian interview than he had shown before : if that were possible , in one of his quick and zealous disposition . 
He was too young and inexperienced to think , that possibly this very quality in him was not agreeable to Mr. Dombey , and that it was no stepping-stone to his good opinion to be elastic and hopeful of pleasing under the shadow of his powerful displeasure , whether it were right or wrong . 
`` You see , Captain Cuttle , '' pursued Walter , `` for myself , I am young , as Mr. Dombey said , and not to be considered . 
I am sorry to say , I am not a favourite with Mr. Dombey . 
I have always tried to do my best , and I have always done it ; but he does not like me . 
He ca n't help his likings and dislikings , perhaps . 
I only say that I am certain he does not like me . 
He does not send me to this post as a good one ; he disdains to represent it as being better than it is ; and I doubt very much if it will ever lead me to advancement in the House -- whether it does not , on the contrary , dispose of me for ever , and put me out of the way . 
It 's better for my uncle that I should be sent away ; for Mr. Dombey is a valuable friend to him , as he proved himself , you know when , Captain Cuttle ; and I am persuaded he wo n't be less valuable when he has n't me there , every day , to awaken his dislike . 
`` Or if there should be any little hitch between 'em , '' thought the Captain , meaning between Walter and Mr. Dombey , `` it only wants a word in season from a friend of both parties , to set it right and smooth , and make all taut again . '' 
Captain Cuttle 's deduction from these considerations was , that as he already enjoyed the pleasure of knowing Mr. Dombey , from having spent a very agreeable half hour in his company at Brighton -LRB- on the morning when they borrowed the money -RRB- ; and that , as a couple of men of the world , who understood each other , and were mutually disposed to make things comfortable , could easily arrange any little difficulty of this sort , and come at the real facts ; the friendly thing for him to do would be , without saying anything about it to Walter at present , just to step up to Mr. Dombey 's house -- say to the servant `` Would ye be so good , my lad , as report Cap ` en Cuttle here ? '' 
-- meet Mr. Dombey in a confidential spirit -- hook him by the button-hole -- talk it over -- make it all right -- and come away triumphant ! 
Armed with this little token , which he designed for Mr. Dombey , Captain Cuttle walked on with Walter until they reached the Instrument-maker 's door , before which they both paused . 
He knew no better fields than those near Hampstead , and no better means of getting at them than by passing Mr. Dombey 's house . 
It was as stately and as dark as ever , when he went by and glanced up at its frowning front . 
So they got back to the coach , long before the coachman expected them ; and Walter putting Susan and Mrs. Richards inside , took his seat on the box himself that there might be no more mistakes , and deposited them safely in the hall of Mr. Dombey 's house -- where , by the bye , he saw a mighty nosegay lying , which reminded him of the one Captain Cuttle had purchased in his company that morning . 
He would have lingered to know more of the young invalid , or waited any length of time to see if he could render the least service ; but , painfully sensible that such conduct would be looked upon by Mr. Dombey as presumptuous and forward , he turned slowly , sadly , anxiously , away . 
He had not gone five minutes ' walk from the door , when a man came running after him , and begged him to return . 
Captain Cuttle , in the exercise of that surprising talent for deep-laid and unfathomable scheming , with which -LRB- as is not unusual in men of transparent simplicity -RRB- he sincerely believed himself to be endowed by nature , had gone to Mr. Dombey 's house on the eventful Sunday , winking all the way as a vent for his superfluous sagacity , and had presented himself in the full lustre of the ankle-jacks before the eyes of Towlinson . 
Hearing from that individual , to his great concern , of the impending calamity , Captain Cuttle , in his delicacy , sheered off again confounded ; merely handing in the nosegay as a small mark of his solicitude , and leaving his respectful compliments for the family in general , which he accompanied with an expression of his hope that they would lay their heads well to the wind under existing circumstances , and a friendly intimation that he would `` look up again '' to-morrow . 
Captain Cuttle , however , becoming cognizant of what had happened , relinquished these attempts , as he perceived the slender chance that now existed of his being able to obtain a little easy chat with Mr. Dombey before the period of Walter 's departure . 
But in admitting to himself , with a disappointed and crest-fallen countenance , that Sol Gills must be told , and that Walter must go -- taking the case for the present as he found it , and not having it enlightened or improved beforehand by the knowing management of a friend -- the Captain still felt an unabated confidence that he , Ned Cuttle , was the man for Mr. Dombey ; and that , to set Walter 's fortunes quite square , nothing was wanted but that they two should come together . 
For the Captain never could forget how well he and Mr. Dombey had got on at Brighton ; with what nicety each of them had put in a word when it was wanted ; how exactly they had taken one another 's measure ; nor how Ned Cuttle had pointed out that resource in the first extremity , and had brought the interview to the desired termination . 
Under the influence of this good-natured delusion , Captain Cuttle even went so far as to revolve in his own bosom , while he sat looking at Walter and listening with a tear on his shirt-collar to what he related , whether it might not be at once genteel and politic to give Mr. Dombey a verbal invitation , whenever they should meet , to come and cut his mutton in Brig Place on some day of his own naming , and enter on the question of his young friend 's prospects over a social glass . 
One fact was quite clear to the Captain , as Walter , sitting thoughtfully over his untasted dinner , dwelt on all that had happened ; namely , that however Walter 's modesty might stand in the way of his perceiving it himself , he was , as one might say , a member of Mr. Dombey 's family . 
He had been , in his own person , connected with the incident he so pathetically described ; he had been by name remembered and commended in close association with it ; and his fortunes must have a particular interest in his employer 's eyes . 
Mr. Carker still blandly assenting in the same voiceless manner , Captain Cuttle was strongly confirmed in his opinion that he was one of the most agreeable men he had ever met , and that even Mr. Dombey might improve himself on such a model . 
There is a hush through Mr. Dombey 's house . 
Now the rosy children living opposite to Mr. Dombey 's house , peep from their nursery windows down into the street ; for there are four black horses at his door , with feathers on their heads ; and feathers tremble on the carriage that they draw ; and these , and an array of men with scarves and staves , attract a crowd . 
And now , among the knot of servants dressed in mourning , and the weeping women , Mr. Dombey passes through the hall to the other carriage that is waiting to receive him . 
He is not `` brought down , '' these observers think , by sorrow and distress of mind . 
His walk is as erect , his bearing is as stiff as ever it has been . 
He hides his face behind no handkerchief , and looks before him . 
But that his face is something sunk and rigid , and is pale , it bears the same expression as of old . 
He takes his place within the carriage , and three other gentlemen follow . 
The service over , and the clergyman withdrawn , Mr. Dombey looks round , demanding in a low voice , whether the person who has been requested to attend to receive instructions for the tablet , is there ? 
Mr. Dombey intimates where he would have it placed ; and shows him , with his hand upon the wall , the shape and size ; and how it is to follow the memorial to the mother . 
Then , with his pencil , he writes out the inscription , and gives it to him : adding , `` I wish to have it done at once . '' 
Mr. Dombey not observing his hesitation , turns away , and leads towards the porch . 
`` I beg your pardon , sir ; '' a touch falls gently on his mourning cloak ; `` but as you wish it done immediately , and it may be put in hand when I get back -- '' `` Well ? '' 
The statuary gives him back the paper , and points out , with his pocket rule , the words `` beloved and only child . '' 
The father , with a hastier step , pursues his way to the coach . 
When the other three , who follow closely , take their seats , his face is hidden for the first time -- shaded by his cloak . 
He alights first , and passes immediately into his own room . 
There is sounder sleep and deeper rest in Mr. Dombey 's house to-night , than there has been for many nights . 
Mr. Dombey , as a part of her reflections , may have been , in the association of ideas , connected with the dog ; but , at any rate , after observing Diogenes and his mistress all the evening , and after exerting herself with much good will to provide Diogenes a bed in an antechamber outside his mistress 's door , she said hurriedly to Florence , before leaving her for the night : `` Your Pa 's going off , Miss Floy , to-morrow morning . '' 
It appeared from what she added and had gleaned down stairs , that Mrs. Chick had proposed the Major for Mr. Dombey 's companion , and that Mr. Dombey , after some hesitation , had invited him . 
`` Not to see her , '' said Walter , `` though I could have seen her , I dare say , if I had asked , Mr. Dombey being out of town : but to say a parting word to Susan . 
I fear so , Mr. Dombey signified as much , I thought , when he appointed me . '' 
Between Mr. Dombey and a young man like me , there 's a wide space of separation . 
`` Mr. Dombey , Sir , '' said Major Bagstock , `` Joey B. is not in general a man of sentiment , for Joseph is tough . 
Major Bagstock delivered himself of these expressions on receiving Mr. Dombey as his guest at the head of his own staircase in Princess 's Place . 
Mr. Dombey had come to breakfast with the Major , previous to their setting forth on their trip ; and the ill-starred Native had already undergone a world of misery arising out of the muffins , while , in connexion with the general question of boiled eggs , life was a burden to him . 
The Major 's purple visage deepened in its hue , and the Major 's lobster eyes stood out in bolder relief , as he shook Mr. Dombey by the hand , imparting to that peaceful action as defiant a character as if it had been the prelude to his immediately boxing Mr. Dombey for a thousand pounds a side and the championship of England . 
With a rotatory motion of his head , and a wheeze very like the cough of a horse , the Major then conducted his visitor to the sitting-room , and there welcomed him -LRB- having now composed his feelings -RRB- with the freedom and frankness of a travelling companion . 
`` Major , '' returned Mr. Dombey , `` you are very obliging . '' 
Mr. Dombey , in his estimation of himself and his money , felt that this was very true , and therefore did not dispute the point . 
It was a confirmation to Mr. Dombey , if he had required any , of his not being mistaken in the Major . 
Mr. Dombey , in his friendlessness , inclined to the Major . 
He talked much , and told stories ; and Mr. Dombey was disposed to regard him as a choice spirit who shone in society , and who had not that poisonous ingredient of poverty with which choice spirits in general are too much adulterated . 
His station was undeniable . 
If Mr. Dombey had any lingering idea that the Major , as a man accustomed , in the way of his calling , to make light of the ruthless hand that had lately crushed his hopes , might unconsciously impart some useful philosophy to him , and scare away his weak regrets , he hid it from himself , and left it lying at the bottom of his pride , unexamined . 
`` You mean Miss Tox , '' retorted Mr. Dombey . 
`` Miss Tox is a very good sort of person , I believe , '' replied Mr. Dombey . 
He swelled and swelled , exceedingly : and even laid down his knife and fork for a moment , to rub his hands . 
Mr. Dombey said `` Indeed ! '' 
The Major accompanied this with such a look , and , between eating , drinking , hot tea , devilled grill , muffins , and meaning , was altogether so swollen and inflamed about the head , that even Mr. Dombey showed some anxiety for him . 
`` I am sorry for her , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
said Mr. Dombey . 
`` Yes , '' replied Mr. Dombey with great stateliness , `` Miss Tox was originally received there , at the time of Mrs. Dombey 's death , as a friend of my sister 's ; and being a well-behaved person , and showing a liking for the poor infant , she was permitted -- I may say encouraged -- to repeat her visits with my sister , and gradually to occupy a kind of footing of familiarity in the family . 
I have , '' said Mr. Dombey , in the tone of a man who was making a great and valuable concession , `` I have a respect for Miss Tox . 
I hold myself indebted to Miss Tox , Major , '' added Mr. Dombey , with a slight wave of his hand , `` for the pleasure of your acquaintance . '' 
Mr. Dombey seemed touched , as it is not improbable the Major designed he should be , by this allusion . 
He looked down and sighed : and the Major , rousing himself fiercely , again said , in reference to the state of mind into which he felt himself in danger of falling , that this was weakness , and nothing should induce him to submit to it . 
`` Major , '' said Mr. Dombey , reddening , `` I hope you do not hint at anything so absurd on the part of Miss Tox as -- '' `` Dombey , '' returned the Major , `` I hint at nothing . 
Mr. Dombey involuntarily glanced over the way ; and an angry glance he sent in that direction , too . 
Mr. Dombey , in a few words , expressed his sense of the preference he received over those other distinguished members of society who were clamouring for the possession of Major Bagstock . 
But the Major cut him short by giving him to understand that he followed his own inclinations , and that they had risen up in a body and said with one accord , `` J.B. Dombey is the man for you to choose as a friend . '' 
The Native had previously packed , in all possible and impossible parts of Mr. Dombey 's chariot , which was in waiting , an unusual quantity of carpet-bags and small portmanteaus , no less apopletic in appearance than the Major himself : and having filled his own pockets with Seltzer water , East India sherry , sandwiches , shawls , telescopes , maps , and newspapers , any or all of which light baggage the Major might require at any instant of the journey , he announced that everything was ready . 
Mr. Dombey received this parting salutation very coldly -- very coldly even for him -- and honouring her with the slightest possible inclination of his head , leaned back in the carriage with a very discontented look . 
His marked behaviour seemed to afford the Major -LRB- who was all politeness in his recognition of Miss Tox -RRB- unbounded satisfaction ; and he sat for a long time afterwards , leering , and choking , like an overfed Mephistopheles . 
During the bustle of preparation at the railway , Mr. Dombey and the Major walked up and down the platform side by side ; the former taciturn and gloomy , and the latter entertaining him , or entertaining himself , with a variety of anecdotes and reminiscences , in most of which Joe Bagstock was the principal performer . 
Neither of the two observed that in the course of these walks , they attracted the attention of a working man who was standing near the engine , and who touched his hat every time they passed ; for Mr. Dombey habitually looked over the vulgar herd , not at them ; and the Major was looking , at the time , into the core of one of his stories . 
At length , however , this man stepped before them as they turned round , and pulling his hat off , and keeping it off , ducked his head to Mr. Dombey . 
Mr. Dombey looked at him , in return for his tone of interest , as if a man like that would make his very eyesight dirty . 
`` ` Scuse the liberty , Sir , '' said Toodle , seeing he was not clearly remembered , `` but my wife Polly , as was called Richards in your family -- '' A change in Mr. Dombey 's face , which seemed to express recollection of him , and so it did , but it expressed in a much stronger degree an angry sense of humiliations , stopped Mr. Toodle short . 
`` Your wife wants money , I suppose , '' said Mr. Dombey , putting his hand in his pocket , and speaking -LRB- but that he always did -RRB- haughtily . 
Mr. Dombey was stopped short now in his turn : and awkwardly : with his hand in his pocket . 
`` No Sir , '' said Toodle , turning his oilskin cap round and round ; `` we 're a doin ' pretty well Sir ; we have n't no cause to complain in the worldly way Sir . 
Mr. Dombey would have rubbed on to his own carriage though in so doing he had rubbed the stoker underneath the wheels ; but his attention was arrested by something in connection with the cap still going slowly round and round in the man 's hand . 
`` Lately , '' added Mr. Dombey , looking at the cap . 
And in the matter o ' readin ' Sir , '' said Toodle , ducking again , as if to remind Mr. Dombey of what had passed between them on that subject long ago , `` them boys o ' mine , they learned me , among 'em , arter all . 
said Mr. Dombey . 
`` Well , man , '' said Mr. Dombey in his severest manner . 
`` Why Sir , '' returned Toodle , shaking his head with a face of great anxiety and distress . 
said Mr. Dombey , with a hard kind of satisfaction . 
`` He has fell into bad company , you see , genelmen , '' pursued the father looking wistfully at both , and evidently taking the Major into the conversation with the hope of having his sympathy . 
You could hardly be off hearing of it somehow , Sir , '' said Toodle , again addressing Mr. Dombey individually ; `` and it 's better I should out and say my boy 's gone rather wrong . 
`` A son of this man 's whom I caused to be educated , Major , '' said Mr. Dombey , giving him his arm . 
The simple father was beginning to submit that he hoped his son , the quondam Grinder , huffed and cuffed , and flogged and badged , and taught , as parrots are , by a brute jobbed into his place of schoolmaster with as much fitness for it as a hound , might not have been educated on quite a right plan in some undiscovered respect , when Mr. Dombey angrily repeating `` The usual return ! '' 
And the Major being heavy to hoist into Mr. Dombey 's carriage , elevated in mid-air , and having to stop and swear that he would flay the Native alive , and break every bone in his skin , and visit other physical torments upon him , every time he could n't get his foot on the step , and fell back on that dark exile , had barely time before they started to repeat hoarsely that it would never do : that it always failed : and that if he were to educate ` his own vagabond , ' he would certainly be hanged . 
Mr. Dombey assented bitterly ; but there was something more in his bitterness , and in his moody way of falling back in the carriage , and looking with knitted brows at the changing objects without , than the failure of that noble educational system administered by the Grinders ' Company . 
He had seen upon the man 's rough cap a piece of new crape , and he had assured himself , from his manner and his answers , that he wore it for his son . 
from high to low , at home or abroad , from Florence in his great house to the coarse churl who was feeding the fire then smoking before them , every one set up some claim or other to a share in his dead boy , and was a bidder against him ! 
Could he ever forget how that woman had wept over his pillow , and called him her own child ! 
or how he , waking from his sleep , had asked for her , and had raised himself in his bed and brightened when she came in ! 
To think of this presumptuous raker among coals and ashes going on before there , with his sign of mourning ! 
To think that he dared to enter , even by a common show like that , into the trial and disappointment of a proud gentleman 's secret heart ! 
As Mr. Dombey looks out of his carriage window , it is never in his thoughts that the monster who has brought him there has let the light of day in on these things : not made or caused them . 
So , pursuing the one course of thought , he had the one relentless monster still before him . 
All things looked black , and cold , and deadly upon him , and he on them . 
He found a likeness to his misfortune everywhere . 
There was a remorseless triumph going on about him , and it galled and stung him in his pride and jealousy , whatever form it took : though most of all when it divided with him the love and memory of his lost boy . 
There was a face -- he had looked upon it , on the previous night , and it on him with eyes that read his soul , though they were dim with tears , and hidden soon behind two quivering hands -- that often had attended him in fancy , on this ride . 
He had seen it , with the expression of last night , timidly pleading to him . 
It was not reproachful , but there was something of doubt , almost of hopeful incredulity in it , which , as he once more saw that fade away into a desolate certainty of his dislike , was like reproach . 
It was a trouble to him to think of this face of Florence . 
Because he felt any new compunction towards it ? 
Because the feeling it awakened in him -- of which he had had some old foreshadowing in older times -- was full-formed now , and spoke out plainly , moving him too much , and threatening to grow too strong for his composure . 
Because the face was abroad , in the expression of defeat and persecution that seemed to encircle him like the air . 
Because it barbed the arrow of that cruel and remorseless enemy on which his thoughts so ran , and put into its grasp a double-handed sword . 
Because he knew full well , in his own breast , as he stood there , tinging the scene of transition before him with the morbid colours of his own mind , and making it a ruin and a picture of decay , instead of hopeful change , and promise of better things , that life had quite as much to do with his complainings as death . 
Why was the object of his hope removed instead of her ? 
The sweet , calm , gentle presence in his fancy , moved him to no reflection but that . 
She had been unwelcome to him from the first ; she was an aggravation of his bitterness now . 
If his son had been his only child , and the same blow had fallen on him , it would have been heavy to bear ; but infinitely lighter than now , when it might have fallen on her -LRB- whom he could have lost , or he believed it , without a pang -RRB- , and had not . 
Her loving and innocent face rising before him , had no softening or winning influence . 
He rejected the angel , and took up with the tormenting spirit crouching in his bosom . 
Her patience , goodness , youth , devotion , love , were as so many atoms in the ashes upon which he set his heel . 
He saw her image in the blight and blackness all around him , not irradiating but deepening the gloom . 
More than once upon this journey , and now again as he stood pondering at this journey 's end , tracing figures in the dust with his stick , the thought came into his mind , what was there he could interpose between himself and it ? 
The Major , even in his friendly remonstrances , thus consulting the dignity and honour of Mr. Dombey , and showing a lively sense of their importance , Mr. Dombey felt more than ever disposed to defer to a gentleman possessing so much good sense and such a well-regulated mind ; accordingly he made an effort to listen to the Major 's stories , as they trotted along the turnpike road ; and the Major , finding both the pace and the road a great deal better adapted to his conversational powers than the mode of travelling they had just relinquished , came out for his entertainment . 
Mr. Dombey would prefer remaining in his own room , or walking in the country by himself , on that first day of their sojourn at Leamington ; but next morning he would be happy to accompany the Major to the Pumproom , and about the town . 
Mr. Dombey retired to nurse his wholesome thoughts in his own way . 
It was surprising how much new conversation the Major had to let off at dinner-time , and what occasion he gave Mr. Dombey to admire his social qualities . 
Mr. Dombey , who had been so long shut up within himself , and who had rarely , at any time , overstepped the enchanted circle within which the operations of Dombey and Son were conducted , began to think this an improvement on his solitary life ; and in place of excusing himself for another day , as he had thought of doing when alone , walked out with the Major arm-in-arm . 
The Major , more blue-faced and staring -- more over-ripe , as it were , than ever -- and giving vent , every now and then , to one of the horse 's coughs , not so much of necessity as in a spontaneous explosion of importance , walked arm-in-arm with Mr. Dombey up the sunny side of the way , with his cheeks swelling over his tight stock , his legs majestically wide apart , and his great head wagging from side to side , as if he were remonstrating within himself on being such a captivating object . 
They had not walked many yards , before the Major encountered somebody he knew , nor many yards farther before the Major encountered somebody else he knew , but he merely shook his fingers at them as he passed , and led Mr. Dombey on : pointing out the localities as they went , and enlivening the walk with any current scandal suggested by them . 
In this manner the Major and Mr. Dombey were walking arm-in-arm , much to their own satisfaction , when they beheld advancing towards them , a wheeled chair , in which a lady was seated , indolently steering her carriage by a kind of rudder in front , while it was propelled by some unseen power in the rear . 
The Major no sooner heard the voice , than he relinquished Mr. Dombey 's arm , darted forward , took the hand of the lady in the chair and pressed it to his lips . 
With no less gallantry , the Major folded both his gloves upon his heart , and bowed low to the other lady . 
And now , the chair having stopped , the motive power became visible in the shape of a flushed page pushing behind , who seemed to have in part out-grown and in part out-pushed his strength , for when he stood upright he was tall , and wan , and thin , and his plight appeared the more forlorn from his having injured the shape of his hat , by butting at the carriage with his head to urge it forward , as is sometimes done by elephants in Oriental countries . 
Mr. Dombey , Mrs. Skewton . '' 
`` Mr. Dombey , Mrs. Granger . '' 
The lady with the parasol was faintly conscious of Mr. Dombey 's taking off his hat , and bowing low . 
Mr. Dombey signified that he did n't wonder at it . 
`` Mr. Dombey is devoted to Nature , I trust ? '' 
`` My friend Dombey , Ma'am , '' returned the Major , `` may be devoted to her in secret , but a man who is paramount in the greatest city in the universe -- '' N2506015 `` No one can be a stranger , '' said Mrs. Skewton , `` to Mr. Dombey 's immense influence . '' 
As Mr. Dombey acknowledged the compliment with a bend of his head , the younger lady glancing at him , met his eyes . 
said Mr. Dombey , addressing her . 
There is only one change , Mr. Dombey , '' observed Mrs. Skewton , with a mincing sigh , `` for which I really care , and that I fear I shall never be permitted to enjoy . 
I assure you , Mr. Dombey , Nature intended me for an Arcadian . 
This curious association of objects , suggesting a remembrance of the celebrated bull who got by mistake into a crockery shop , was received with perfect gravity by Mr. Dombey , who intimated his opinion that Nature was , no doubt , a very respectable institution . 
`` If Mr. Dombey will honour us , we shall be happy . 
The Major again pressed to his blue lips the tips of the fingers that were disposed on the ledge of the wheeled chair with careful carelessness ; after the Cleopatra model : and Mr. Dombey bowed . 
The last glimpse of the wrinkled face of the mother , with that patched colour on it which the sun made infinitely more haggard and dismal than any want of colour could have been , and of the proud beauty of the daughter with her graceful figure and erect deportment , engendered such an involuntary disposition on the part of both the Major and Mr. Dombey to look after them , that they both turned at the same moment . 
The Page , nearly as much aslant as his own shadow , was toiling after the chair , uphill , like a slow battering-ram ; the top of Cleopatra 's bonnet was fluttering in exactly the same corner to the inch as before ; and the Beauty , loitering by herself a little in advance , expressed in all her elegant from head to foot , the same supreme disregard of everything and everybody . 
inquired Mr. Dombey . 
`` You were complimentary to the mother , '' returned Mr. Dombey . 
`` She impresses me as being perfectly genteel , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
`` You addressed the daughter , I observed , '' said Mr. Dombey , after a short pause , `` as Mrs. Granger . '' 
asked Mr. Dombey , making another halt . 
asked Mr. Dombey presently . 
Mr. Dombey 's eyes sought the ground , and a shade came over his face . 
said Mr. Dombey , raising his head . 
said Mr. Dombey coldly . 
Mr. Dombey seemed , by his face , to think no worse of her for that . 
On the next day but one , Mr. Dombey and the Major encountered the honourable Mrs. Skewton and her daughter in the Pump-room ; on the day after , they met them again very near the place where they had met them first . 
Mr. Dombey had not originally intended to pay visits , but on the Major announcing this intention , he said he would have the pleasure of accompanying him . 
So the Major told the Native to go round before dinner , and say , with his and Mr. Dombey 's compliments , that they would have the honour of visiting the ladies that same evening , if the ladies were alone . 
Compliments -LRB- in which Edith unites -RRB- to Mr. Dombey . '' 
Mr. Dombey and the Major found Mrs. Skewton arranged , as Cleopatra , among the cushions of a sofa : very airily dressed : and certainly not resembling Shakspeare 's Cleopatra , whom age could not wither . 
`` I hope , Mrs. Granger , '' said Mr. Dombey , advancing a step towards her , `` we are not the cause of your ceasing to play ? '' 
`` Do you know , Mr. Dombey , '' said her languishing mother , playing with a hand-screen , `` that occasionally my dearest Edith and myself actually almost differ -- '' `` Not quite , sometimes , Mama ? '' 
Mr. Dombey said it was very true , very true . 
Mr. Dombey thought it possible . 
Withers the Wan , at this period , handing round the tea , Mr. Dombey again addressed himself to Edith . 
said Mr. Dombey , in his own portentous gentlemanly way . 
said Mr. Dombey . 
The daughter slightly turned her graceful head , and raising her eyebrows by a hair 's - breadth as if her cousin Feenix were of all the mortal world the least to be regarded , turned her eyes again towards Mr. Dombey . 
`` You have almost reason to be , Madam , '' he replied , glancing at a variety of landscape drawings , of which he had already recognised several as representing neighbouring points of view , and which were strewn abundantly about the room , `` if these beautiful productions are from your hand . '' 
She gave him no reply , but sat in a disdainful beauty , quite amazing . 
said Mr. Dombey . 
Neither did she seem to wish to avoid the conversation , for she addressed her face , and -- so far as she could -- her manner also , to him ; and continued to do so , when he was silent . 
`` You have many resources against weariness at least , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
said Mr. Dombey , with solemn gallantry , laying down a drawing he had held , and motioning towards the harp . 
Mr. Dombey , not knowing the game , sat down to watch them for his edification until Edith should return . 
`` We are going to have some music , Mr. Dombey , I hope ? '' 
`` Mrs. Granger has been kind enough to promise so , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
You are fond of music , Mr. Dombey ? '' 
`` Eminently so , '' was Mr. Dombey 's answer . 
Do you know , '' simpered Cleopatra , reversing the knave of clubs , who had come into her game with his heels uppermost , `` that if anything could tempt me to put a period to my life , it would be curiosity to find out what it 's all about , and what it means ; there are so many provoking mysteries , really , that are hidden from us . 
The Major played ; and Mr. Dombey , looking on for his instruction , would soon have been in a state of dire confusion , but that he gave no attention to the game whatever , and sat wondering instead when Edith would come back . 
She came at last , and sat down to her harp , and Mr. Dombey rose and stood beside her , listening . 
He had little taste for music , and no knowledge of the strain she played , but he saw her bending over it , and perhaps he heard among the sounding strings some distant music of his own , that tamed the monster of the iron road , and made it less inexorable . 
When the haughty beauty had concluded , she arose , and receiving Mr. Dombey 's thanks and compliments in exactly the same manner as before , went with scarcely any pause , to the piano , and began there . 
Edith Granger , you are very handsome , and your touch upon the keys is brilliant , and your voice is deep and rich ; but not the air that his neglected daughter sang to his dead son ! 
Alas he knows it not ; and if he did , what air of hers would stir him , rigid man ! 
It was in the writing of his great chief , Mr. Dombey , and dated from Leamington . 
That he was afraid he took a rash step in doing anything for the boy , and one that might expose him to the censure of the prudent ; but that he did it of himself and for himself , and risked the consequences single-handed ; and that his mother 's past connection with Mr. Dombey 's family had nothing to do with it , and that Mr. Dombey had nothing to do with it , but that he , Mr. Carker , was the be-all , and the end-all of this business . 
More affable and pleasant yet , and humming his song until his many teeth vibrated to it , Mr. Carker picked his way along , and turned at last into the shady street where Mr. Dombey 's house stood . 
He had been so busy , winding webs round good faces , and obscuring them with meshes , that he hardly thought of being at this point of his ride , until , glancing down the cold perspective of tall houses , he reined in his horse quickly within a few yards of the door . 
Nothing seemed to do Mr. Toots so much good as incessantly leaving cards at Mr. Dombey 's door . 
`` For Mr. Dombey , '' would be Mr. Toots 's next remark , as he handed in a card . 
Beyond devising that very artful and politic measure of leaving a card for Mr. Dombey daily , the brain of Mr. Toots had not worked much in reference to the subject that held his feelings prisoner . 
Upon the next day , therefore , Mr. Toots , putting into requisition some of the greatest marvels that Burgess and Co. had ever turned out , went off to Mr. Dombey 's upon this design . 
But his heart failed him so much as he approached the scene of action , that , although he arrived on the ground at three o'clock in the afternoon , it was six before he knocked at the door . 
Susan screamed , laughed , opened the street-door , and ran down stairs ; the bold Toots tumbled staggering out into the street , with Diogenes holding on to one leg of his pantaloons , as if Burgess and Co. were his cooks , and had provided that dainty morsel for his holiday entertainment ; Diogenes shaken off , rolled over and over in the dust , got up again , whirled round the giddy Toots and snapped at him : and all this turmoil , Mr. Carker , reining up his horse and sitting at a little distance , saw , to his amazement , issue from the stately house of Mr. Dombey . 
`` I have the pleasure of knowing Mr. Dombey , '' observed Carker . 
`` And you will allow me , perhaps , to apologise , in his absence , '' said Mr. Carker , taking off his hat , `` for such a misadventure , and to wonder how it can possibly have happened . '' 
Mr. Toots is so much gratified by this politeness , and the lucky chance of making friends with a friend of Mr. Dombey , that he pulls out his card-case , which he never loses an opportunity of using , and hands his name and address to Mr. Carker : who responds to that courtesy by giving him his own , and with that they part . 
Unless the household found it out when she was not there -- and they all held Mr. Dombey 's rooms in awe -- it was as deep a secret in her breast as what had gone before it . 
This last ejaculation , with which Miss Nipper frequently wound up a sentence , at about that epoch of time , was supposed below the level of the hall to have a general reference to Mr. Dombey , and to be expressive of a yearning in Miss Nipper to favour that gentleman with a piece of her mind . 
`` I have been remembering , all this afternoon , that on the very day when my boy entered Dombey 's house , and came home late to dinner , sitting just there where you stand , we talked of storm and shipwreck , and I could hardly turn him from the subject . '' 
But I am going down to-morrow morning to Mr. Dombey , at Leamington , and if Miss Dombey can intrust me with any commission , need I say how very happy I shall be ? '' 
`` I am infinitely obliged , Carker , '' explained Mr. Dombey , `` to Major Bagstock , for his company and conversation . 
Mr. Carker the Manager , hat in hand , just arrived at Leamington , and just introduced to the Major , showed the Major his whole double range of teeth , and trusted he might take the liberty of thanking him with all his heart for having effected so great an improvement in Mr. Dombey 's looks and spirits . 
A great creature like our friend Dombey , Sir , '' said the Major , lowering his voice , but not lowering it so much as to render it inaudible to that gentleman , `` can not help improving and exalting his friends . 
He strengthens and invigorates a man , Sir , does Dombey , in his moral nature . '' 
`` But when my friend Dombey , Sir , '' added the Major , `` talks to you of Major Bagstock , I must crave leave to set him and you right . 
He means plain Joe , Sir -- Joey B. -- Josh . 
`` By no means , Major , '' observed Mr. Dombey . 
Mr. Dombey in some embarrassment , and not without a glance at the courteous keeper of his business confidence , intrusted the Major with his compliments . 
`` Regards then , if you will , Major , '' returned Mr. Dombey . 
`` What you please then , Major , '' observed Mr. Dombey . 
`` Very great indeed , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
Mr. Dombey acknowledged this display of interest on the part of his second in command , by twirling his watch-chain , and slightly moving his head . 
Mr. Dombey put his hand to his neckcloth , settled his chin in it , coughed , and stood looking at his faithful friend and servant for a few moments in silence . 
`` I shall have the pleasure , Carker , '' said Mr. Dombey at length : making as if he swallowed something a little too large for his throat : `` to present you to my -- to the Major 's friends . 
`` They are all -- that is to say , they are both -- ladies , '' replied Mr. Dombey . 
`` Mother and daughter , '' replied Mr. Dombey . 
As Mr. Dombey dropped his eyes , and adjusted his neckcloth again , the smiling face of Mr. Carker the Manager became in a moment , and without any stage of transition , transformed into a most intent and frowning face , seanning his closely , and with an ugly sneer . 
As Mr. Dombey raised his eyes , it changed back , no less quickly , to its old expression , and showed him every gum of which to stood possessed . 
There was a sudden rush of blood to Mr. Dombey 's face . 
Wolf 's face that it was then , with even the hot tongue revealing itself through the stretched mouth , as the eyes encountered Mr. Dombey 's ! 
`` Carker , '' said Mr. Dombey , taking a chair near him , `` I can not say that young man , Gay , ever impressed me favourably -- '' `` Nor me , '' interposed the Manager . 
`` But I wish , '' said Mr. Dombey , without heeding the interruption , `` he had never gone on board that ship . 
`` No , '' said Mr. Dombey , sternly . 
Mr. Dombey leaned back in his chair , instead of bending over the papers that were laid before him , and looked the Manager steadily in the face . 
He showed that he affected this , as if from great delicacy , and with a design to spare Mr. Dombey 's feelings ; and the latter , as he looked at him , was cognizant of his intended consideration , and felt that but for it , this confidential Carker would have said a great deal more , which he , Mr. Dombey , was too proud to ask for . 
it was his way in business , often . 
Little by little , Mr. Dombey 's gaze relaxed , and his attention became diverted to the papers before him ; but while busy with the occupation they afforded him , he frequently stopped , and looked at Mr. Carker again . 
While they were thus engaged ; and under the skilful culture of the Manager , angry thoughts in reference to poor Florence brooded and bred in Mr. Dombey 's breast , usurping the place of the cold dislike that generally reigned there ; Major Bagstock , much admired by the old ladies of Leamington , and followed by the Native , carrying the usual amount of light baggage , straddled along the shady side of the way , to make a morning call on Mrs. Skewton . 
It being mid-day when the Major reached the bower of Cleopatra , he had the good fortune to find his Princess on her usual sofa , languishing over a cup of coffee , with the room so darkened and shaded for her more luxurious repose , that Withers , who was in attendance on her , loomed like a phantom page . 
`` Mr. Dombey , '' said Mrs. Skewton , when she at length resumed , `` was obliging enough , now many weeks ago , to do us the honour of visiting us here ; in company , my dear Major , with yourself . 
`` It gave me -LRB- my dearest Edith too , I am sure -RRB- infinite Pleasure to receive Mr. Dombey . 
As a friend of yours , my dear Major , we were naturally disposed to be prepossessed in his favour ; and I fancied that I observed an amount of Heart in Mr. Dombey , that was excessively refreshing . '' 
`` Mr. Dombey , '' pursued Cleopatra , smoothing the rosy hue upon her cheeks , `` accordingly repeated his visit ; and possibly finding some attraction in the simplicity and primitiveness of our tastes -- for there is always a charm in nature -- it is so very sweet -- became one of our little circle every evening . 
Little did I think of the awful responsibility into which I plunged when I encouraged Mr. Dombey -- to -- '' `` To beat up these quarters , Ma'am , '' suggested Major Bagstock . 
From hour to hour I reproach myself for that excess of faith and trustfulness which has led to such distressing consequences ; and almost from minute to minute , I hope that Mr. Dombey may explain himself , and relieve the torture I undergo , which is extremely wearing . 
`` Is there as much Heart in Mr. Dombey as I gave him credit for ? '' 
`` Do you think he is in earnest , my dear Major ? 
Would you recommend his being spoken to , or his being left alone ? 
`` Shall we marry him to Edith Granger , Ma'am ? '' 
`` How can we marry him ? '' 
`` Shall we marry him to Edith Granger , Ma'am , I say ? '' 
`` And Dombey 's anxiety for his arrival , Ma'am , is to be referred -- take J. B. 's word for this ; for Joe is de-vilish sly '' -- the Major tapped his nose , and screwed up one of his eyes tight : which did not enhance his native beauty -- `` to his desire that what is in the wind should become known to him , without Dombey 's telling and consulting him . 
Pray let me say , my love , that Major Bagstock has brought the kindest of notes from Mr. Dombey , proposing that we should breakfast with him to-morrow , and ride to Warwick and Kenilworth . 
Here is Mr. Dombey 's letter , Edith . '' 
Dombey was not yet in the room , but the right-hand man was there , and his dental treasures were , as usual , ready for the Major . 
Hearing Mr. Dombey 's footstep without , the Major cut himself short by saying , that Mr. Carker would see her to-morrow morning , and would judge for himself ; and between his mental exeitement , and the exertion of saying all this in wheezy whisper , the Major sat gurgling in the throat and watering at the eyes , until dinner was ready . 
On this occasion , he shone resplendent at one end of the table , supported by the milder lustre of Mr. Dombey at the other ; while Carker on one side lent his ray to either light , or suffered it to merge into both , as occasion arose . 
But on this occasion , Major Bagstock , even amidst these many occupations , found time to be social ; and his sociality consisted in excessive slyness for the behoof of Mr. Carker , and the betrayal of Mr. Dombey 's state of mind . 
And Mr. Dombey 's too . 
By Gad , gentlemen , '' said the Major , winking at his new friend , while Mr. Dombey looked into his plate with a conscious air , `` we 'll consecrate this glass of wine to a Divinity whom Joe is proud to know , and at a distance humbly and reverently to admire . 
`` Edith , by all means , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
This was respectful and becoming on the Major 's part , and Mr. Dombey plainly felt it so . 
Although embarrassed in his own frigid way , by the Major 's allusions , Mr. Dombey had no objection to such rallying , it was clear , but rather courted it . 
But the Major , having secured an attentive listener , and a smiler who had not his match in all the world -- `` in short , a de-vilish intelligent and agreeable fellow , '' as he often afterwards declared -- was not going to let him off with a little slyness personal to Mr. Dombey . 
Therefore , on the removal of the cloth , the Major developed himself as a choice spirit in the broader and more comprehensive rage of narrating regimental stories , and cracking regimental jokes , which he did with such prodigal exuberance , that Carker was -LRB- or feigned to be -RRB- quite exhausted with laughter and admiration : while Mr. Dombey looked on over his starched cravat , like the Major 's proprietor , or like a stately showman who was glad to see his bear dancing well . 
`` Carker plays at all games , I believe , '' said Mr. Dombey , laying himself on a sofa like a man of wood without a hinge or a joint in him ; `` and plays them well . '' 
In sooth , he played the two in question , to such perfection , that the Major was astonished , and asked him , at random , if he played chess . 
He ! 
But the Major thought nothing abut it ; and Mr. Dombey lay meditating , with his eyes half shut , during the whole of the play , which lasted until bed time . 
Though always somewhat formal , in his dress , in imitation of the great man whom he served , he stopped short of the extent of Mr. Dombey 's stiffness : at once perhaps because he knew it to be ludicrous , and because in doing so he found another means of expressing his sense of the difference and distance between them . 
Preparations for a choice repast were completed , he found , at the hotel ; and Mr. Dombey , and the Major , and the breakfast , were awaiting the ladies . 
Individual constitution has much to do with the development of such facts , no doubt ; but in this case , appetite carried it hollow over the tender passion ; Mr. Dombey being very cool and collected , and the Major fretting and fuming in a state of violent heat and irritation . 
`` My dear Mr. Dombey , '' said the lady , `` I am afraid we are late , but Edith has been out already looking for a favourable point of view for a sketch , and kept me waiting for her . 
Falsest of Majors , '' giving him her little finger , `` how do you do ? '' 
`` Mrs. Skewton , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` let me gratify my friend Carker : '' Mr. Dombey unconseiously emphasised the word friend , as saying ` no really ; I do allow him to take credit for that distinction : ' `` by presenting him to you . 
Would he have been more charmed on Mr. Dombey 's behalf , if Mrs. Skewton had been -LRB- as he at first supposed her -RRB- the Edith whom they had toasted over night ? 
My dear Mr. Dombey , will you have the kindness -- '' Mr. Dombey was already gone to seek her . 
Next moment he returned , bearing on his arm the same elegantly dressed and very handsome lady whom Mr. Carker had encountered underneath the trees . 
`` Carker -- '' began Mr. Dombey . 
But their recognition of each other was so manifest , that Mr. Dombey stopped surprised . 
Edith deigned no revision of this extraordinary quotation from the Koran , but Mr. Dombey felt it necessary to offer a few polite remarks . 
`` It gives me great pleasure , '' said Mr. Dombey , with cumbrous gallantry , `` that a gentleman so nearly connected with myself as Carker is should have had the honour and happiness of rendering the least assistance to Mrs. Granger . '' 
Mr. Dombey bowed to her . 
`` But it gives me some pain , and it occasions me to be really envious of Carker ; '' he unconsciously laid stress on these words , as sensible that they must appear to involve a very surprising proposition ; `` envious of Carker , that I had not that honour and that happiness myself . '' 
Mr. Dombey bowed again . 
With this , the Major gave his arm to Edith ; Mr. Dombey led the way with Mrs. Skewton ; Mr. Carker went last , smiling on the party . 
Mrs. Skewton was looking sharp after Mr. Dombey all the time she said this , who was looking at Edith : who was listening , but who never lifted up her eyes . 
`` I assure you , Mrs. Skewton , '' said Mr. Dombey , with solemn encouragement of his Manager , `` that Carker has a very good taste for pictures ; quite a natural power of appreciating them . 
But Mr. Dombey is so generous in his estimation of any trivial accomplishment a man like myself may find it almost necessary to acquire , and to which , in his very different sphere , he is far superior , that -- '' Mr. Carker shrugged his shoulders , deprecating further praise , and said no more . 
But as Carker ceased , she looked at Mr. Dombey for a moment . 
Mr. Dombey caught the dark eye-lash in its descent , and took the opportunity of arresting it . 
said Mr. Dombey . 
Edith had turned her face towards Mr. Dombey when he first addressed her , and had remained in that attitude , while speaking to her mother , and while her mother spoke to her , as though offering him her attention , if he had anything more to say . 
Mr. Dombey , having nothing else to say , proposed -- the breakfast being now finished , and the Major gorged , like any Boa Constrictor -- that they should start . 
Whether he looked to one side of the road , or to the other -- over distant landscape , with its smooth undulations , wind-mills , corn , grass , bean fields , wild-flowers , farm-yards , hayricks , and the spire among the wood -- or upwards in the sunny air , where butterflies were sporting round his head , and birds were pouring out their songs -- or downward , where the shadows of the branches interlaced , and made a trembling carpet on the road -- or onward , where the overhanging trees formed aisles and arches , dim with the softened light that steeped through leaves -- one corner of his eye was ever on the formal head of Mr. Dombey , addressed towards him , and the feather in the bonnet , drooping so neglectfully and scornfully between them : much as he had seen the haughty eyelids droop ; not least so , when the face met that now fronting it . 
Once , and once only , did his wary glance release these objects ; and that was , when a leap over a low hedge , and a gallop across a field , enabled him to anticipate the carriage coming by the road , and to be standing ready , at the journey 's end , to hand the ladies out . 
Then , and but then , he met her glance for an instant in her first surprise ; but when he touched her , in alighting , with his soft white hand , it overlooked him altogether as before . 
This chance arrangement left Mr. Dombey at liberty to escort Edith : which he did : stalking before them through the apartments with a gentlemanly solemnity . 
The peculiarity of their conversation was , that Mrs. Skewton , in spite of her ecstacies , and Mr. Carker , in spite of his urbanity , were both intent on watching Mr. Dombey and Edith . 
`` We have no Faith left , positively , '' said Mrs. Skewton , advancing her shrivelled ear ; for Mr. Dombey was saying something to Edith . 
As the smiling gentleman thus spake , he pointed through a doorway to where Mr. Dombey and Edith were standing alone in the centre of another room . 
He , self-important , unbending , formal , austere . 
She , lovely and graceful , in an uncommon degree , but totally regardless of herself and him and everything around , and spurning her own attractions with her haughty brow and lip , as if they were a badge or livery she hated . 
Mr. Carker now , having nothing to distract his attention , began to discourse upon the pictures , and to select the best , and point them out to Mr. Dombey : speaking with his usual familiar recognition of Mr. Dombey 's greatness , and rendering homage by adjusting his eye-glass for him , or finding out the right place in his catalogue , or holding his stick , or the like . 
These services did not so much originate with Mr. Carker , in truth , as with Mr. Dombey himself , who was apt to assert his chieftainship by saying , with subdued authority , and in an easy way -- for him -- `` Here , Carker , have the goodness to assist me , will you ! '' 
At first , he addressed himself for the most part to Mrs. Skewton ; but as that sensitive lady was in such ecstacies with the works of art , after the first quarter of an hour , that she could do nothing but yawn -LRB- they were such perfect inspirations , she observed as a reason for that mark of rapture -RRB- , he transferred his attentions to Mr. Dombey . 
Mr. Dombey said little beyond an occasional `` Very true , Carker , '' or `` Indeed , Carker , '' but he tacitly encouraged Carker to proceed , and inwardly approved of his behaviour very much : deeming it as well that somebody should talk , and thinking that his remarks , which were , as one might say , a branch of the parent establishment , might amuse Mrs. Granger . 
Mr. Dombey ceremoniously observed of one of these , that a sketch , however slight , from the fair hand of Mrs. Granger , would be a remembrance to him of that agreeable day : though he wanted no artificial remembrance , he was sure -LRB- here Mr. Dombey made another of his bows -RRB- , which he must always highly value . 
Withers the lean having Edith 's sketch-book under his arm , was immediately called upon by Mrs. Skewton to produce the same : and the carriage stopped , that Edith might make the drawing , which Mr. Dombey was to put away among his treasures . 
`` But I am afraid I trouble you too much , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
she answered , turning to him with the same enforced attention as before . 
Mr. Dombey , with another bow , which cracked the starch in his cravat , would beg to leave that to the Artist . 
`` Suppose then , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` we say from here . 
said Edith to Mr. Dombey . 
`` I shall be charmed , '' said Mr. Dombey to Edith . 
Therefore the carriage was driven to the spot where Mr. Dombey was to be charmed ; and Edith , without moving from her seat , and opening her sketch-book with her usual proud indifference , began to sketch . 
`` Pray allow me , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
Mr. Carker rode up close to the carriage-door on Mrs. Granger 's side , and letting the rein fall on his horse 's neck , took the pencils from her hand with a smile and a bow , and sat in the saddle leisurely mending them . 
Having done so , he begged to be allowed to hold them , and to hand them to her as they were required ; and thus Mr. Carker , with many commendations of Mrs. Granger 's extraordinary skill -- especially in trees -- remained close at her side , looking over the drawing as she made it . 
Mr. Dombey in the meantime stood bolt upright in the carriage like a highly respectable ghost , looking on too ; while Cleopatra and the Major dallied as two ancient doves might do . 
said Edith , showing the sketch to Mr. Dombey . 
Mr. Dombey begged that it might not be touched ; it was perfection . 
So it continued to be while the drawing was laid aside for Mr. Dombey , and while the sketching materials were put up ; then he handed in the pencils -LRB- which were received with a distant acknowledgment of his help , but without a look -RRB- , and tightening his rein , fell back , and followed the carriage again . 
Thinking , perhaps , as he rode , that even this trivial sketch had been made and delivered to its owner , as if it had been bargained for and bought . 
Thinking , perhaps , that although she had assented with such perfect readiness to his request , her haughty face , bent over the drawing , or glancing at the distant objects represented in it , had been the face of a proud woman , engaged in a sordid and miserable transaction . 
A stroll among the haunted ruins of Kenilworth , and more rides to more points of view : most of which , Mrs. Skewton reminded Mr. Dombey , Edith had already sketched , as he had seen in looking over her drawings : brought the day 's expedition to a close . 
Mrs. Skewton and Edith were driven to their own lodgings ; Mr. Carker was graciously invited by Cleopatra to return thither with Mr. Dombey and the Major , in the evening , to hear some of Edith 's music ; and the three gentlemen repaired to their hotel to dinner . 
Mr. Dombey was again agreeably embarrassed . 
But even the music was paid by Edith to Mr. Dombey 's order , as it were , in the same uncompromising way . 
`` Edith , my dearest love , '' said Mrs. Skewton , half an hour after tea , `` Mr. Dombey is dying to hear you , I know . '' 
`` Mr. Dombey has life enough left to say so for himself , Mama , I have no doubt . '' 
`` I shall be immensely obliged , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
hesitated Mr. Dombey . 
Such frigid and constrained , yet prompt and pointed acquiescence with the wished he imposed upon her , and on no one else , was sufficiently remarkable to penetrate through all the mysteries of picquet , and impress itself on Mr. Carker 's keen attention . 
Nor did he lose sight of the fact that Mr. Dombey was evidently proud of his power , and liked to show it . 
Nevertheless , Mr. Carker played so well -- some games with the Major , and some with Cleopatra , whose vigilance of eye in respect of Mr. Dombey and Edith no lynx could have surpassed -- that he even heightened his position in the lady-mother 's good graces ; and when on taking leave he regretted that he would be obliged to return to London next morning , Cleopatra trusted : community of feeling not being met with every day : that it was far from being the last time they would meet . 
Mr. Dombey , who had taken a stately leave of Edith , bent , or made some approach to a bend , over Cleopatra 's couch , and said , in a low voice . 
Cleopatra was so much fluttered and moved , by hearing this , of course , incomprehensible speech , that she could only shut her eyes , and shake her head , and give Mr. Dombey her hand ; which Mr. Dombey , not exactly knowing what to do with , dropped . 
With this , the Major slapped Mr. Dombey on the back , and winking over his shoulder at the ladies , with a frightful tendency of blood to the head , carried him off . 
When your poor dear Ma died , Miss Floy , I was very new in the family , you see , and my element : '' the Nipper bridled , as opining that her merits had been always designedly extinguished by Mr. Dombey : `` was the floor below the attics . '' 
said Mr. Dombey , displeased . 
said Mr. Dombey ; and a cloud passed over his face , for he understood her . 
`` Edith , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` this is my daughter Florence . 
`` Shall we go on through the rooms , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` and see how our workmen are doing ? 
He said this , in offering his arm to Mrs. Skewton , who had been looking at Florence through her glass , as though picturing to herself what she might be made , by the infusion -- from her own copious storehouse , no doubt -- of a little more Heart and Nature . 
Florence was still sobbing on the lady 's breast , and holding to her , when Mr. Dombey was heard to say from the Conservatory : `` Let us ask Edith . 
Looking for Mr. Dombey somewhere , I know . 
Miss Tox , all unconscious of any such rare appearances in connexion with Mr. Dombey 's house , as scaffoldings and ladders , and men with their heads tied up in pocket-handkerchiefs , glaring in at the windows like flying genii or strange birds , -- having breakfasted one morning at about this eventful period of time , on her customary viands ; to wit , one French roll rasped , one egg new laid -LRB- or warranted to be -RRB- , and one little pot of tea , wherein was infused one little silver scoop-full of that herb on behalf of Miss Tox , and one little silver scoop-full on behalf of the teapot -- a flight of fancy in which good housekeepers delight ; went up stairs to set forth the bird waltz on the harpsichord , to water and arrange the plants , to dust the nick-nacks , and , according to her daily custom , to make her little drawing-room the garland of Princess 's Place . 
In her pensive mood , Miss Tox 's thoughts went wandering on Mr. Dombey 's track ; probably because the Major had returned home to his lodgings opposite , and had just bowed to her from his window . 
What other reason could Miss Tox have for connecting Mr. Dombey with her summer days and dandelion fetters ? 
Was he more cheerful ? 
Was he reconciled to the decrees of fate ? 
Would he ever marry again ; and if yes , whom ? 
If I have been a little overpowered by your news , Louisa , and have ever had any lingering thought that Mr. Dombey was inclined to be particular towards me , surely you will not condemn me . '' 
While poor excommunicated Miss Tox , who , if she were a fawner and toad-eater , was at least an honest and a constant one , and had ever borne a faithful friendship towards her impeacher , and had been truly absorbed and swallowed up in devotion to the magnificence of Mr. Dombey -- while poor excommunicated Miss Tox watered her plants with her tears , and felt that it was winter in Princess 's Place . 
Although the enchanted house was no more , and the working world had broken into it , and was hammering and crashing and tramping up and down stairs all day long , keeping Diogenes in an incessant paroxysm of barking , from sunrise to sunset -- evidently convinced that his enemy had got the better of him at last , and was then sacking the premises in triumphant defiance -- there was , at first , no other great change in the method of Florence 's life . 
She welcomed back the evening silence as an old friend , but it came now with an altered face , and looked more kindly on her . 
Cleopatra , who in her juvenility was always playfully disposed , and who in her self-engrossment did not trouble herself about the nature of this agitation , pushed Florence behind her couch , and dropped a shawl over her , preparatory to giving Mr. Dombey a rapture of surprise . 
It was so quickly done , that in a moment Florence heard his awful step in the room . 
He saluted his intended mother-in-law , and his intended bride . 
The strange sound of his voice thrilled through the whole frame of his child . 
`` Florence is very well , '' said Mr. Dombey , advancing towards the couch . 
`` At home , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
Though he had been ; and had been detected , on the spot , in the most enormous falsehood that was ever said or done ; he could hardly have been more disconcerted than he was , when Mrs. Skewton plucked the shawl away , and Florence , pale and trembling , rose before him like a ghost . 
He had not yet recovered his presence of mind , when Florence had run up to him , clasped her hands round his neck , kissed his face , and hurried out of the room . 
He looked round as if to refer the matter to somebody else , but Edith had gone after Florence , instantly . 
`` Now , confess , my dear Dombey , '' said Mrs. Skewton , giving him her hand , `` that you never were more surprised and pleased in your life . '' 
`` I never was more surprised , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
`` I -- yes , I am exceedingly glad to meet Florence here , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
He appeared to consider gravely about it for a moment , and then said , more decidedly , `` Yes , I really am very glad indeed to meet Florence here . '' 
`` Edith , perhaps -- '' suggested Mr. Dombey . 
As she waited for an answer , Mr. Dombey answered , `` Eminently so . '' 
cried Cleopatra , squeezing his hand . 
Cleopatra skipping off her couch with tolerable briskness , after the last benediction , Mr. Dombey took her arm in his and led her ceremoniously down stairs ; one of the very tall young men on hire , whose organ of veneration was imperfectly developed , thrusting his tongue into his cheek , for the entertainment of the other very tall young man on hire , as the couple turned into the dining-room . 
Florence would have risen when her father entered , to resign her chair to him ; but Edith openly put her hand upon her arm , and Mr. Dombey took an opposite place at the round table . 
`` Yes , madam , '' replied Mr. Dombey ; `` the deed of settlement , the professional gentlemen inform me , is now ready , and as I was mentioning to you , Edith has only to do us the favour to suggest her own time for its execution . '' 
`` My dearest love , '' said Cleopatra , `` do you hear what Mr. Dombey says ? 
It shall be when you please , '' said Edith , scarcely looking over the table at Mr. Dombey . 
suggested Mr. Dombey . 
`` Or would next day , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` suit your engagements better ? '' 
`` You and Mr. Dombey can arrange between you . '' 
Mr. Dombey was far from quarrelling , in his own breast , with the manner of his beautiful betrothed . 
He had that good reason for sympathy with haughtiness and coldness , which is found in a fellow-feeling . 
It flattered him to think how these deferred to him , in Edith 's case , and seemed to have no will apart from his . 
It flattered him to picture to himself , this proud and stately woman doing the honours of his house , and chilling his guests after his own manner . 
So thought Mr. Dombey , when he was left alone at the dining-table , and mused upon his past and future fortunes : finding no uncongeniality in an air of scant and gloomy state that pervaded the room , in colour a dark brown , with black hatchments of pictures blotching the walls , and twenty-four black chairs , with almost as many nails in them as so many coffins , waiting like mutes , upon the threshold of the Turkey carpet ; and two exhausted negroes holding up two withered branches of candelabra on the side-board , and a musty smell prevailing as if the ashes of ten thousand dinners were entombed in the sarcophagus below it . 
No bad representation of the body , for the nonce , in his unbending form , if not in his attitude , Mr. Dombey looked down into the cold depths of the dead sea of mahogany on which the fruit dishes and decanters lay at anchor ; as if the subjects of his thoughts were rising towards the surface one by one , and plunging down again . 
Edith was there in all her majesty of brow and figure ; and close to her came Florence , with her timid head turned to him , as it had been , for an instant , when she left the room ; and Edith 's eyes upon her , and Edith 's hand put out protectingly . 
A little figure in a low arm-chair came springing next into the light , and looked upon him wonderingly , with its bright eyes and its old-young face gleaming as in the flickering of an evening fire . 
Again came Florence close upon it , and absorbed his whole attention . 
Whether as a fore-doomed difficulty and disappointment to him ; whether as a rival who had crossed him in his way , and might again ; whether as his child , of whom , in his successful wooing , he could stoop to think , as claiming , at such a time , to be no more estranged ; or whether as a hint to him that the mere appearance of caring for his own blood should be maintained in his new relations ; he best knew . 
Indifferently well , perhaps , at best ; for marriage company and marriage altars , and ambitious scenes -- still blotted here and there with Florence -- always Florence -- turned up so fast , and so confusedly , that he rose , and went up stairs to escape them . 
They were not many , however , for Edith sat apart by an open window during the whole time -LRB- in spite of her mother 's fears that she would take cold -RRB- , and remained there until Mr. Dombey took leave . 
He was serenely gracious to Florence when he did so ; and Florence went to bed in a room within Edith 's , so happy and hopeful , that she thought of her late self as if it were some other poor deserted girl who was to be pitied for her sorrow ; and in her pity , sobbed herself to sleep . 
In the dark room -- for Mrs. Skewton 's head was no better yet , though she expected to recover permanently to-morrow -- were that lady , Edith , and Mr. Dombey . 
Edith was at her open window looking out into the street ; Mr. Dombey and Cleopatra were talking softly on the sofa . 
Mr. Dombey said he would , with pleasure . 
Mr. Dombey would be delighted to leave Florence in such admirable guardianship . 
said Mr. Dombey . 
said Mr. Dombey , `` I have laid no commands on Florence ; and if I had , there are no commands like your wish . '' 
it was late , and Mr. Dombey feared he must . 
Mr. Dombey , who was accustomed to take things literally , reminded Mrs. Skewton that they were to meet first at the church . 
Edith , who had turned her head again towards the window , and whose interest in their conversation had ceased , rose up in her place , but made no advance towards him , and said nothing . 
Mr. Dombey , with a lofty gallantry adapted to his dignity and the occasion , betook his creaking boots towards her , put her hand to his lips , said , `` To-morrow morning I shall have the happiness of claiming this hand as Mrs. Dombey 's , '' and bowed himself solemnly out . 
Mrs. Skewton rang for candles as soon as the house-door had closed upon him . 
In Mr. Dombey 's house , at this same time , there is great stir and bustle , more especially among the women : not one of whom has had a wink of sleep since four o'clock , and all of whom were full dressed before six . 
From Balls Pond , Mr. Perch brings Mrs. Perch to spend the day with Mr. Dombey 's servants , and accompany them , surreptitiously , to see the wedding . 
Besides all this , and much more , twenty nursery maids in Mr. Dombey 's street alone , have promised twenty families of little women , whose instinctive interest in nuptials dates from their cradles , that they shall go and see the marriage . 
Mr. Dombey leaves his dressing-room , amidst a general whisking away of the women on the staircase , who disperse in all directions , with a great rustling of skirts , except Mrs. Perch , who , being -LRB- but that she always is -RRB- in an interesting situation , is not nimble , and is obliged to face him , and is ready to sink with confusion as she curtseys ; -- may Heaven avert all evil consequences from the house of Perch ! 
Mr. Dombey walks up to the drawing-room , to bide his time . 
Gorgeous are Mr. Dombey 's new blue coat , fawn-coloured pantaloons , and lilac waistcoat ; and a whisper goes about the house , that Mr. Dombey 's hair is curled . 
`` Major , '' says Mr. Dombey , `` how are You ! '' 
`` By Jove , Sir , '' says the Major , `` Joey B. is in such case this morning , Sir , '' -- and here he hits himself hard upon the breast -- `` in such case this morning , Sir , that , damme , Dombey , he has half a mind to make a double marriage of it , Sir , and take the mother . '' 
Mr. Dombey smiles ; but faintly , even for him ; for Mr. Dombey feels that he is going to be related to the mother , and that , under those circumstances , she is not to be joked about . 
Here again , Mr. Dombey 's assent is qualified ; because he is going to confer a great distinction on a lady ; and , no doubt , she is to be envied most . 
`` You are good enough to say so , Major , '' says Mr. Dombey . 
`` My dear Major Bagstock , '' says Mr. Dombey , with a gratified air , `` you are quite warm . '' 
He is warm . 
And I tell you what , Dombey -- at such a time a man must blurt out what he feels , or put a muzzle on ; and Joseph Bagstock tells you to your face , Dombey , as he tells his club behind your back , that he never will be muzzled when Paul Dombey is in question . 
`` Major , '' says Mr. Dombey , `` I assure you that I am really obliged to you . 
`` Your friendship I will say then , '' pursues Mr. Dombey , `` on any account . 
He can scarcely let Mr. Dombey 's hand go , he is so congratulatory ; and he shakes the Major 's hand so heartily at the same time , that his voice shakes too , in accord with his arms , as it comes sliding from between his teeth . 
`` I was afraid I might be a few seconds after the appointed time , for I was delayed by a procession of wagons ; and I took the liberty of riding round to Brook-street '' -- this to Mr. Dombey -- `` to leave a few poor rarities of flowers for Mrs. Dombey . 
A man in my position , and so distinguished as to be invited here , is proud to offer some homage in acknowledgment of his vassalage : and as I have no doubt Mrs. Dombey is overwhelmed with what is costly and magnificent ; '' with a strange glance at his patron ; `` I hope the very poverty of my offering , may find favour for it . '' 
`` Mrs. Dombey , that is to be , '' returns Mr. Dombey , condescendingly , `` will be very sensible of your attention , Carker , I am sure . '' 
`` And if she is to be Mrs. Dombey this morning , Sir , '' says the Major , putting down his coffee-cup , and looking at his watch , `` it 's high time we were off ! '' 
Forth , in a barouche , ride Mr. Dombey , Major Bagstock , and Mr. Carker , to the church . 
Mr. Dombey prefers remaining in the church . 
As he looks up at the organ , Miss Tox in the gallery shrinks behind the fat leg of a cherubim on a monument , with cheeks like a young Wind . 
Mr. Sownds and Mrs. Miff are eyeing Mr. Dombey from a little distance , when the noise of approaching wheels is heard , and Mr. Sownds goes out . 
Mrs. Miff , meeting Mr. Dombey 's eye as it is withdrawn from the presumptuous maniac up-stairs , who salutes him with so much urbanity , drops a curtsey , and informs him that she believes his `` good lady '' is come . 
At this juncture , Mrs. Skewton speaks to Mr. Dombey : more distinctly and emphatically than her custom is , and moving , at the same time , close to Edith . 
Mr. Dombey offers no additional remonstrance ; for the clergyman and clerk appear ; and Mrs. Miff , and Mr. Sownds the Beadle , group the party in their proper places at the altar rails . 
Aye , that they will : Mr. Dombey says he will . 
The example is followed by Cousin Feenix , and even by Mr. Dombey . 
But , does Edith feel still , as on the night when she knew that Mr. Dombey would return to offer his alliance , that Carker knows her thoroughly , and reads her right , and that she is more degraded by his knowledge of her , than by aught else ? 
Mr. Dombey , with his bride upon his arm , conducts her through the twenty families of little women who are on the steps , and every one of whom remembers the fashion and the colour of her every article of dress from that moment , and reproduces it on her doll , who is for ever being married . 
She quite admits to herself the beauty of the bride , and her own comparatively feeble and faded attractions ; but the stately image of Mr. Dombey in his lilac waistcoat , and his fawn-coloured pantaloons , is present to her mind , and Miss Tox weeps afresh , behind her veil , on her way home to Princess 's Place . 
The Chicken is as yet unable to elaborate a scheme for winning Florence , but his first idea has gained possession of him , and he thinks the doubling up of Mr. Dombey would be a move in the right direction . 
Mr. Dombey 's servants come out of their hiding-places , and prepare to rush to Brook Street , when they are delayed by symptoms of indisposition on the part of Mrs. Perch , who entreats a glass of water , and becomes alarming ; Mrs. Perch gets better soon , however , and is borne away ; and Mrs. Miff , and Mr. Sownds the Beadle , sit upon the steps to count what they have gained by the affair , and talk it over , while the sexton tolls a funeral . 
Now , the people run , and push , and press round in a gaping throng , while Mr. Dombey , leading Mrs. Dombey by the hand , advances solemnly into the Feenix Halls . 
`` Present , '' repeats Cousin Feenix , feeling that it is a neat point which will bear repetition , -- `` with one who -- that is to say , with a man , at whom the finger of scorn can never -- in fact , with my honourable friend Dombey , if he will allow me to call him so . '' 
Cousin Feenix bows to Mr. Dombey ; Mr. Dombey solemnly returns the bow ; everybody is more or less gratified and affected by this extraordinary , and perhaps unprecedented , appeal to the feelings . 
`` I have not , '' says Cousin Feenix , `` enjoyed those opportunities which I could have desired , of cultivating the acquaintance of my friend Dombey , and studying those qualities which do equal honour to his head , and , in point of fact , to his heart ; for it has been my misfortune to be , as we used to say in my time in the House of Commons , when it was not the custom to allude to the Lords , and when the order of parliamentary proceedings was perhaps better observed than it is now -- to be in -- in point of fact , '' says Cousin Feenix , cherishing his joke , with great slyness , and finally bringing it out with a jerk , ``` in another place ! 
`` But I know sufficient of my friend Dombey , '' resumes Cousin Feenix in a graver tone , as if he had suddenly become a sadder and a wiser man , `` to know that he is , in point of fact , what may be emphatically called a -- a merchant -- a British merchant -- and a -- and a man . 
I congratulate my friend Dombey on his union with my lovely and accomplished relative who possesses every requisite to make a man happy ; and I take the liberty of calling on you all , in point of fact , to congratulate both my friend Dombey and my lovely and accomplished relative , on the present occasion . '' 
The speech of Cousin Feenix is received with great applause , and Mr. Dombey returns thanks on behalf of himself and Mrs. Dombey . 
Mr. Dombey 's cook , who generally takes the lead in society , has said , it is impossible to settle down after this , and why not go , in a party , to the play ? 
Everybody -LRB- Mrs. Perch included -RRB- has agreed to this ; even the Native , who is tigerish in his drink , and who alarms the ladies -LRB- Mrs. Perch particularly -RRB- by the rolling of his eyes . 
The chariot is at the door ; the Bride is descending to the hall , where Mr. Dombey waits for her . 
Mr. Dombey 's servants moralise so much about it , and are so repentant over their early tea , at home , that by eight o'clock or so , they settle down into confirmed seriousness ; and Mr. Perch , arriving at that time from the city , fresh and jocular , with a white waistcoat and a comic song , ready to spend the evening , and prepared for any amount of dissipation , is amazed to find himself coldly received , and Mrs. Perch but poorly , and to have the pleasing duty of escorting that lady home by the next omnibus . 
Though he considered it a point of good breeding in himself , as a general friend of the family , to attend Mr. Dombey 's wedding -LRB- of which he had heard from Mr. Perch -RRB- , and to show that gentleman a pleasant and approving countenance from the gallery , he had repaired to the church in a hackney cabriolet with both windows up ; and might have scrupled even to make that venture , in his dread of Mrs. MacStinger , but that the lady 's attendance on the ministry of the Reverend Melchisedech rendered it peculiarly unlikely that she would be found in communion with the Establishment . 
If Mr. Dombey were here , Captain , you might be obliged to leave in a more ignominious manner , possibly . 
If he reproached himself sometimes , and keenly too , for having ever connived at Walter 's innocent deceit , he thought at least as often of the Mr. Carker whom no sea could ever render up ; and the Mr. Dombey , whom he now began to perceive was as far beyond human recal ; and the `` Heart 's Delight , '' with whom he must never foregather again ; and the lovely Peg , that teak-built and trim ballad , that had gone ashore upon a rock , and split into mere planks and beams of rhyme . 
Mr. Dombey 's -- only Mr. Dombey 's . 
I have seen him . '' 
`` Little he thought who I was ! '' 
`` And little he cared ! '' 
I spoke to him , and he spoke to me . 
I sat and watched him as he went away down a long grove of trees ; and at every step he took I cursed him , soul and body . '' 
`` He will thrive in spite of that , '' returned the daughter disdainfully . 
`` Aye , he is thriving , '' said the mother . 
But it succeeded , and she asked , after a silence : `` Is he married ? '' 
But his master and friend is married . 
Oh , we may give him joy ! 
Mr. Dombey 's mansion , if it be a gap among the other houses any longer , is only so because it is not to be vied with in its brightness , and haughtily casts them off . 
A thundering knock from the obnoxious foreigner anticipates the rush of Mr. Towlinson and party to open it ; and Mr. Dombey and his bride alight , and walk in arm and arm . 
said Mr. Dombey , putting out his hand . 
As Florence , trembling , raised it to her lips , she met his glance . 
The look was cold and distant enough , but it stirred her heart to think that she observed in it something more of interest than he had ever shown before . 
She dared not raise her eyes to his any more ; but she felt that he looked at her once again , and not less favourably . 
Oh what a thrill of joy shot through her , awakened by even this intangible and baseless confirmation of her hope that she would learn to win him , through her new and beautiful mama ! 
said Mr. Dombey . 
With that Mr. Dombey stalked away to his own dressing-room , and Mrs. Dombey went up stairs to hers . 
`` It was cold , '' returned Mr. Dombey . 
I thought it dull , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
`` It made that impression upon me , Madam , '' said Mr. Dombey with grave politeness . 
`` It is handsome , '' said Mr. Dombey , looking round . 
`` It is powerful , Madam , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
He looked in his solemn way towards his wife , but not a word said she . 
An expression of scorn was habitual to the proud face , and seemed inseparable from it ; but the contempt with which it received any appeal to admiration , respect , or consideration on the ground of his riches , no matter how slight or ordinary in itself , was a new and different expression , unequalled in intensity by any other of which it was capable . 
Whether Mr. Dombey , wrapped in his own greatness , was at all aware of this , or no , there had not been wanting opportunities already for his complete enlightenment ; and at that moment it might have been effected by the one glance of the dark eye that lighted on him , after it had rapidly and scornfully surveyed the theme of his self-glorification . 
He might have read in that one glance that nothing that his wealth could do , though it were increased ten thousand fold , could win him for its own sake , one look of softened recognition from the defiant woman , linked to him , but arrayed with her whole soul against him . 
He might have read in that one glance that even for its sordid and mercenary influence upon herself , she spurned it , while she claimed its utmost power as her right , her bargain -- as the base and worthless recompense for which she had become his wife . 
He might have read in it that , ever baring her own head for the lightning of her own contempt and pride to strike , the most innocent allusion to the power of his riches degraded her anew , sunk her deeper in her own respect , and made the blight and waste within her , more complete . 
But dinner was announced , and Mr. Dombey led down Cleopatra ; Edith and his daughter following . 
Sweeping past the gold and silver demonstration on the sideboard as if it were heaped-up dirt , and deigning to bestow no look upon the elegancies around her , she took her place at his board for the first time , and sat , like a statue , at the feast . 
Mr. Dombey , being a good deal in the statue way himself , was well enough pleased to see his handsome wife immoveable and proud and cold . 
Her deportment being always elegant and graceful , this as a general behaviour , was agreeable and congenial to him . 
Presiding , therefore , with his accustomed dignity , and not at all reflecting on his wife by any warmth or hilarity of his own , he performed his share of the honours of the table with a cool satisfaction ; and the installation dinner , though not regarded down-stairs as a great success or very promising beginning , passed off , above , in a sufficiently polite , genteel , and frosty manner . 
`` No , '' returned Mr. Dombey , looking round over his shoulder ; `` you can come and go here , Florence , as you please . 
Her very step was different and new to him , Mr. Dombey thought , as his eyes followed her to the door . 
He sat in his shadowy corner so long , that the church clocks struck the hour three times before he moved that night . 
All that while his face was still intent upon the spot where Florence had been seated . 
The room grew darker , as the candles waned and went out ; but a darkness gathered on his face , exceeding any that the night could cast , and rested there . 
A series of entertainments in celebration of the late nuptials , and in cultivation of society , were arranged , chiefly by Mr. Dombey and Mrs. Skewton ; and it was settled that the festive proceedings should commence by Mrs. Dombey 's being at home upon a certain evening , and by Mr. and Mrs. Dombey 's requesting the honour of the company of a great many incongruous people to dinner on the same day . 
Accordingly Mr. Dombey produced a list of sundry eastern magnates who were to be bidden to this feast , on his behalf ; to which Mrs. Skewton , acting for her dearest child , who was haughtily careless on the subject , subjoined a western list , comprising Cousin Feenix , not yet returned to Baden Baden , greatly to the detriment of his personal estate ; and a variety of moths of various degrees and ages , who had , at various times , fluttered round the light of her fair daughter , or herself , without any lasting injury to their wings . 
The proceedings commenced by Mr. Dombey , in a cravat of extraordinary height and stiffness , walking restlessly about the drawing-room until the hour appointed for dinner ; punctual to which , an East India Director , of immense wealth , in a waistcoat apparently constructed in serviceable deal by some plain carpenter , but really engendered in the tailor 's art , and composed of the material called nankeen , arrived , and was received by Mr. Dombey alone . 
The next stage of the proceedings was Mr. Dombey 's sending his compliments to Mrs. Dombey , with a correct statement of the time ; and the next , the East India Director 's falling prostrate , in a conversational point of view , and , as Mr. Dombey was not the man to pick him up , staring at the fire until rescue appeared , in the shape of Mrs. Skewton ; whom the Director , as a pleasant start in life for the evening , mistook for Mrs. Dombey , and greeted with enthusiasm . 
The next arrival was a Bank Director , reputed to be able to buy up anything -- human Nature generally , if he should take it in his head to influence the money market in that direction -- but who was a wonderfully , modest spoken man , almost boastfully so , and mentioned his `` little place '' at Kingston-upon-Thames , and its just being barely equal to giving Dombey a bed and a chop , if he would come and visit it . 
Ladies , he said , it was not for a man who lived in his quiet way to take upon himself to invite -- but if Mrs. Skewton and her daughter , Mrs. Dombey , should ever find themselves in that direction , and would do him the honour to look at a little bit of a shrubbery they would find there , and a poor little flower-bed or so , and a humble apology for a pinery , and two or three little attempts of that sort without any pretension , they would distinguish him very much . 
Carrying out his character , this gentleman was very plainly dressed , in a wisp of cambric for a neckcloth , big shoes , a coat that was too loose for him , and a pair of trowsers that were too spare ; and mention being made of the Opera by Mrs. Skewton , he said he very seldom went there , for he could n't afford it . 
It seemed greatly to delight and exhilarate him to say so ; and he beamed on his audience afterwards , with his hands in his pockets , and excessive satisfaction twinkling in his eyes . 
When they entered together , the shadow of the night of the return again darkened Mr. Dombey 's face . 
But unobserved ; for Florence did not venture to raise her eyes to his , and Edith 's indifference was too supreme to take the least heed of him . 
As the greater part of Mr. Dombey 's list were disposed to be taciturn , and the greater part of Mrs. Dombey 's list were disposed to be talkative , and there was no sympathy between them , Mrs. Dombey 's list , by magnetic agreement , entered into a bond of union against Mr. Dombey 's list , who , wandering about the rooms in a desolate manner , or seeking refuge in corners , entangled themselves with company coming in , and became barricaded behind sofas , and had doors opened smartly from without against their heads , and underwent every sort of discomforture . 
When dinner was announced , Mr. Dombey took down an old lady like a crimson velvet pincushion stuffed with bank notes , who might have been the identical old lady of Threadneedle-street , she was so rich , and looked so unaccommodating ; Cousin Feenix took down Mrs. Dombey ; Major Bagstock took down Mrs. Skewton ; the young thing with the shoulders was bestowed , as an extinguisher , upon the East India Director ; and the remaining ladies were left on view in the drawing-room by the remaining gentlemen , until a forlorn hope volunteered to conduct them down stairs , and those brave spirits with their captives blocked up the dining-room door , shutting out seven mild men in the stony-hearted hall . 
Mr. Dombey , as Tiddler , looked his character to admiration ; and the long plateau of precious metal frosted , separating him from Mrs. Dombey , whereon frosted Cupids offered scentless flowers to each of them , was allegorical to see . 
Mr. Dombey , who was as likely to have known Guy Fawkes , replied in the negative . 
With whom Mr. Dombey immediately took wine . 
Mr. Dombey 's face was not a changeful one , and being cast in its mould of state that day , showed little other apprehension of the story , if any , than that which he expressed when he said solemnly , amidst the silence , that it was `` Very good . '' 
Through the various stages of rich meats and wines , continual gold and silver , dainties of earth , air , fire , and water , heaped-up fruits , and that unnecessary article in Mr. Dombey 's banquets -- ice -- the dinner slowly made its way : the later stages being achieved to the sonorous music of incessant double knocks , announcing the arrival of visitors , whose portion of the feast was limited to the smell thereof . 
Mr. Dombey was a grave sight , behind the decanters , in a state of dignity ; and the East India Director was a forlorn sight near the unoccupied end of the table , in a state of solitude ; and the Major was a military sight , relating stories of the Duke of York to six of the seven mild men -LRB- the ambitious one was utterly quenched -RRB- ; and the Bank Director was a lowly sight , making a plan of his little attempt at a pinery , with dessertknives , for a group of admirers ; and Cousin Feenix was a thoughtful sight , as he smoothed his long wristbands and stealthily adjusted his wig . 
There was a throng in the state-rooms up-stairs , increasing every minute ; but still Mr. Dombey 's list of visitors appeared to have some native impossibility of amalgamation with Mrs. Dombey 's list , and no one could have doubted which was which . 
But she was not the only indignant guest ; for Mr. Dombey 's list -LRB- still constantly in difficulties -RRB- were , as a body , indignant with Mrs. Dombey 's list , for looking at them through eye-glasses , and audibly wondering who all those people were ; while Mrs. Dombey 's list complained of weariness , and the young thing with the shoulders , deprived of the attentions of that gay youth Cousin Feenix -LRB- who went away from the dinner-table -RRB- , confidentially alleged to thirty or forty friends that she was bored to death . 
All the old ladies with the burdens on their heads , had greater or less cause of complaint against Mrs. Dombey ; and the Directors and Chairmen coincided in thinking that if Dombey must marry , he had better have married somebody nearer his own age , not quite so handsome , and a little better off . 
The general opinion among this class of gentlemen was , that it was a weak thing in Dombey , and he 'd live to repent it . 
Hardly anybody there , except the mild men , stayed , or went away , without considering himself or herself neglected and aggrieved by Mr. Dombey or Mrs. Dombey ; and the speechless female in the black velvet hat was found to have been stricken mute , because the lady in the crimson velvet had been handed down before her . 
At last , the guests were all gone , and the linkmen too ; and the street , crowded so long with carriages , was clear ; and the dying lights showed no one in the rooms , but Mr. Dombey and Mr. Carker , who were talking together apart , and Mrs. Dombey and her mother : the former seated on an ottoman ; the latter reclining in the Cleopatra attitude , awaiting the arrival of her maid . 
Mr. Dombey having finished his communication to Carker , the latter advanced obsequiously to take leave . 
`` I trust , '' he said , `` that the fatigues of this delightful evening will not inconvenience Mrs. Dombey to-morrow . '' 
`` Mrs. Dombey , '' said Mr. Dombey , advancing , `` has sufficiently spared herself fatigue , to relieve you from any anxiety of that kind . 
She looked at him with a supercilious glance , that it seemed not worth her while to protract , and turned away her eyes without speaking . 
`` I am sorry , Madam , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` that you should not have thought it your duty -- '' `` Your duty , Madam , '' pursued Mr. Dombey , `` to have received my friends with a little more deference . 
she returned , now looking at him steadily . 
I insist that you do not , '' cried Mr. Dombey , stopping that noiseless gentleman in his withdrawal . 
I beg to tell you , for your information , Mrs. Dombey , that I consider these wealthy and important persons confer a distinction upon me : '' and Mr. Dombey drew himself up , as having now rendered them of the highest possible importance . 
`` I ask you , '' she repeated , bending her disdainful , steady gaze upon him , `` do you know that there is some one here , Sir ? '' 
`` I have pointed out to Mrs. Dombey , '' said Mr. Dombey , in his most stately manner , `` that in her conduct thus early in our married life , to which I object , and which , I request , may be corrected . 
If his handsome wife had reproached him , or even changed countenance , or broken the silence in which she remained , by one word , now that they were alone -LRB- for Cleopatra made off with all speed -RRB- , Mr. Dombey would have been equal to some assertion of his case against her . 
But the intense , unutterable , withering scorn , with which , after looking upon him , she dropped her eyes as if he were too worthless and indifferent to her to be challenged with a syllable -- the ineffable disdain and haughtiness in which she sat before him -- the cold inflexible resolve with which her every feature seemed to bear him down , and put him by -- he had no resource against ; and he left her , with her whole overbearing beauty concentrated on despising him . 
Was he coward enough to watch her , an hour afterwards , on the old well staircase , where he had once seen Florence in the moonlight , toiling up with Paul ? 
`` I have presumed , '' said Mr. Carker , `` to solicit an interview , and I have ventured to describe it as being one of business , because -- '' `` Perhaps you are charged by Mr. Dombey with some message of reproof , '' said Edith . 
`` You possess Mr. Dombey 's confidence in such an unusual degree , Sir , that you would scarcely surprise me if that were your business . '' 
`` I have no message to the lady who sheds a lustre upon his name , '' said Mr. Carker . 
`` But I entreat that lady , on my own behalf , to be just to a very humble claimant for justice at her hands -- a mere dependant of Mr. Dombey 's -- which is a position of humility ; and to reflect upon my perfect helplessness last night , and the impossibility of my avoiding the share that was forced upon me in a very painful occasion . '' 
`` May I be allowed , Madam , '' said Carker , turning his white teeth on Mrs. Skewton like a light -- `` a lady of your excellent sense and quick feeling will give me credit , for good reason , I am sure -- to address what I have to say , to Mrs. Dombey , and to leave her to impart it to you who are her best and dearest friend -- next to Mr. Dombey ? '' 
`` But , as one who is devoted to Mr. Dombey in his different way , and whose life is passed in admiration of Mr. Dombey 's character , may I say , without offence to your tenderness as a wife , that Miss Florence has unhappily been neglected -- by her father . 
May I hope you know how the neglect originated ; in what an amiable phase of Mr. Dombey 's pride -- character , I mean ? '' 
`` Indeed , I am sensible , Madam , '' replied Carker , -- `` trust me , I am deeply sensible , that Mr. Dombey can require no justification in anything to you . 
But , kindly judge of my breast by your own , and you will forgive my interest in him , if , in its excess , it goes at all astray . '' 
But , as regards the circumstances , which is indeed the business I presumed to solicit your attention to , I can have no doubt , since , in the execution of my trust as Mr. Dombey 's confidential -- I presume to say -- friend , I have fully ascertained them . 
`` This interest , Madam -- so touching an evidence of everything associated with Mr. Dombey being dear to you -- induces me to pause , before I make him acquainted with these circumstances , which , as yet , he does not know . 
The uneasiness I have for sometime felt on the subject , arises in this : that the mere circumstance of such association , often repeated , on the part of Miss Florence , however innocently and confidingly , would be conclusive with Mr. Dombey , already predisposed against her , and would lead him to take some step -LRB- I know he has occasionally contemplated it -RRB- of separation and alienation of her from his home . 
Madam , bear with me , and remember my intercourse with Mr. Dombey , and my knowledge of him , and my reverence for him , almost from childhood , when I say that if he has a fault , it is a lofty stubbornness , rooted in that noble pride and sense of power which belong to him , and which we must all defer to ; which is not assailable like the obstinacy of other characters ; and which grows upon itself from day to day , and year to year . '' 
Madam , in the midst of my uneasiness and apprehension on this subject , I was summoned by Mr. Dombey to Leamington . 
There I could not help knowing what relation you would shortly occupy towards him -- to his enduring happiness and yours . 
I have , at heart , no fear that I shall be wanting in my duty to Mr. Dombey , if I bury what I know in your breast ; for where there is but one heart and mind between two persons -- as in such a marriage -- one almost represents the other . 
I can acquit my conscience therefore , almost equally , by confidence , on such a theme , in you or him . 
She got on no better towards night ; for when Mrs. Dombey , in her dressing-room , had been dressed and waiting for her half an hour , and Mr. Dombey , in the drawing-room , had paraded himself into a state of solemn fretfulness -LRB- they were all three going out to dinner -RRB- , Flowers the Maid appeared with a pale face to Mrs. Dombey , saying : `` If you please , Ma'am , I beg your pardon , but I ca n't do nothing with Missis ! '' 
do you know that you are married to him , Edith , and that you have a settlement , and a position , and a carriage , and I do n't know what ? '' 
`` As you would have had with that delightful good soul -- what did they call him ? 
-- Granger -- if he had n't died . 
The forlorn Miss Tox , abandoned by her friend Louisa Chick , and bereft of Mr. Dombey 's countenance -- for no delicate pair of wedding cards , united by a silver thread , graced the chimney-glass in Princess 's Place , or the harpsichord , or any of those little posts of display which Lucretia reserved for holiday occupation -- became depressed in her spirits , and suffered much from melancholy . 
Against Mr. Dombey Miss Tox hardly felt that she had any reason of complaint . 
She never recalled the lofty manner in which Mr. Dombey had made her subservient to his convenience and caprices , and had graciously permitted her to be one of the nurses of his little son . 
She only thought , in her own words , `` that she had passed a great many happy hours in that house , which she must ever remember with gratification , and that she could never cease to regard Mr. Dombey as one of the most impressive and dignified of men . '' 
Cut off , however , from the implacable Louisa , and being shy of the Major -LRB- whom she viewed with some distrust now -RRB- , Miss Tox found it very irksome to know nothing of what was going on in Mr. Dombey 's establishment . 
And as she really had got into the habit of considering Dombey and Son as the pivot on which the world in general turned , she resolved , rather than be ignorant of intelligence which so strongly interested her , to cultivate her old acquaintance , Mrs. Richards , who she knew , since her last memorable appearance before Mr. Dombey , was in the habit of sometimes holding communication with his servants . 
Perhaps Miss Tox , in seeking out the Toodle family , had the tender motive hidden in her breast of having somebody to whom she could talk about Mr. Dombey , no matter how humble that somebody might be . 
`` No , '' replied Polly , `` but he 's almost certain to look in to-night . 
It 's his right evening , and he 's very regular . '' 
`` This here , Ma'am , '' said Toodle , `` is him with the short legs -- and they was , '' said Mr. Toodle , with a touch of poetry in his tone , `` unusual short for leathers -- as Mr. Dombey made a Grinder on . '' 
It is sufficient for me to say , that I have the greatest possible respect for , and interest in , Mr. Dombey ; '' Miss Tox 's voice faltered ; `` and everything that relates to him . '' 
Mr. Toodle , enlightened , shook his head , and said he had heerd it said , and , for his own part , he did think , as Mr. Dombey was a difficult subject . 
The gallant Grinder , however , being still there , politely offered to attend her to her own door ; and as it was something to Miss Tox to be seen home by a youth whom Mr. Dombey had first inducted into those manly garments which are rarely mentioned by name , she very readily accepted the proposal . 
Self-buried , therefore , among the instruments , the Captain never went near Mr. Dombey 's house , or reported himself in any way to Florence or Miss Nipper . 
It was not in the nature of things that a man of Mr. Dombey 's mood , opposed to such a spirit as he had raised against himself , should be softened in the imperious asperity of his temper ; or that the cold hard armour of pride in which he lived encased , should be made more flexible by constant collision with haughty scorn and defiance . 
Towards his first wife , Mr. Dombey , in his cold and lofty arrogance , had borne himself like the removed Being he almost conceived himself to be He had been `` Mr. Dombey '' with her when she first saw him , and he was `` Mr. Dombey '' when she died . 
Mr. Dombey was resolved to show her that he was supreme . 
There must be no will but his . 
Proud he desired that she should be , but she must be proud for , not against him . 
As he sat alone , hardening , he would often hear her go out and come home , treading the round of London life with no more heed of his liking or disliking , pleasure or displeasure , than if he had been her groom . 
Her cold supreme indifference -- his own unquestioned attribute usurped -- stung him more than any other kind of treatment could have done ; and he determined to bend her to his magnificent and stately will . 
He had been long communing with these thoughts , when one night he sought her in her own apartment , after he had heard her return home late . 
Her face was melancholy and pensive , when he came upon her ; but it marked him at the door ; for , glancing at the mirror before it , he saw immediately , as in a picture-frame , the knitted brow , and darkened beauty that he knew so well . 
`` Mrs. Dombey , '' he said , entering , `` I must beg leave to have a few words with you . '' 
`` There is no time like the present , Madam , '' he returned . 
She looked upon him as she said so , and folding her white arms , sparkling with gold and gems , upon her swelling breast , turned away her eyes . 
If she had been less handsome , and less stately in her cold composure , she might not have had the power of impressing him with the sense of disadvantage that penetrated through his utmost pride . 
But she had the power , and he felt it keenly . 
He glanced round the room : saw how the splendid means of personal adornment , and the luxuries of dress , were scattered here and there , and disregarded ; not in mere caprice and carelessness -LRB- or so he thought -RRB- , but in a stedfast , haughty disregard of costly things : and felt it more and more . 
Chaplets of flowers , plumes of feathers , jewels , laces , silks and satins ; look where he would , he saw riches , despised , poured out , and made of no account . 
The very diamonds -- a marriage gift -- that rose and fell impatiently upon her bosom , seemed to pant to break the chain that clasped them round her neck , and roll down on the floor where she might tread upon them . 
He felt his disadvantage , and he showed it . 
Solemn and strange among this wealth of colour and voluptuous glitter , strange and constrained towards its haughty mistress , whose repellant beauty it repeated , and presented all around him , as in so many fragments of a mirror , he was conscious of embarrassment and awkwardness . 
Nothing that ministered to her disdainful self-possession could fail to gall him . 
Galled and irritated with himself , he sat down , and went on , in no improved humour : `` Mrs. Dombey , it is very necessary that there should be some understanding arrived at between us . 
She merely glanced at him again , and again averted her eyes ; but she might have spoken for an hour , and expressed less . 
`` Madam , '' said Mr. Dombey , with his most offensive air of state , `` I have made you my wife . 
She bent her eyes upon him steadily , and set her trembling lips . 
He saw her bosom throb , and saw her face flush and turn white . 
All this he could know , and did : but he could not know that one word was whispering in the deep recesses of her heart , to keep her quiet ; and that the word was Florence . 
`` You are too expensive , Madam , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
His insolence of self-importance dilated as he saw this alteration in her . 
Swollen no less by her past scorn of him , and his so recent feeling of disadvantage , than by her present submission -LRB- as he took it to be -RRB- , it became too mighty for his breast , and burst all bounds . 
Why , who could long resist his lofty will and pleasure ! 
He had resolved to conquer her , and look here ! 
`` You will further please , Madam , '' said Mr. Dombey , in a tone of sovereign command , `` to understand distinctly , that I am to be deferred to and obeyed . 
he added , with emphasis . 
Her eyes upon him . 
`` I have learnt from your mother , Mrs. Dombey , '' said Mr. Dombey , with magisterial importance , `` what no doubt you know , namely , that Brighton is recommended for her health . 
Not unobservant of the change , and putting his own interpretation upon it , Mr. Dombey resumed : `` Mr. Carker has been so good as to go down and secure a house there , for a time . 
She had changed her attitude before he arrived at these words , and now sat -- still looking at him fixedly -- turning a bracelet round and round upon her arm ; not winding it about with a light , womanly touch , but pressing and dragging it over the smooth skin , until the white limb showed a bar of red . 
`` I observed , '' said Mr. Dombey -- `` and this concludes what I deem it necessary to say to you at present , Mrs. Dombey -- I observed a moment ago , Madam , that my allusion to Mr. Carker was received in a peculiar manner . 
Mr. Carker , '' said Mr. Dombey , who , after the emotion he had just seen , set great store by this means of reducing his proud wife , and who was perhaps sufficiently willing to exhibit his power to that gentleman in a new and triumphant aspect , `` Mr. Carker being in my confidence , Mrs. Dombey , may very well be in yours to such an extent . 
I hope , Mrs. Dombey , '' he continued , after a few moments , during which , in his increasing haughtiness , he had improved on his idea , `` I may not find it necessary ever to intrust Mr Carker with any message of objection or remonstrance to you ; but as it would be derogatory to my position and reputation to be frequently holding trivial disputes with a lady upon whom I have conferred the highest distinction that it is in my power to bestow , I shall not scruple to avail myself of his services if I see occasion . '' 
`` And now , '' he thought , rising in his moral magnificence , and rising a stiffer and more impenetrable man than ever , `` she knows me and my resolution . '' 
The hand that had so pressed the bracelet was laid heavily upon her breast , but she looked at him still , with an unaltered face , and said in a low voice : `` Wait ! 
Why did she not , and what was the inward struggle that rendered her incapable of doing so , for minutes , while , in the strong constraint she put upon her face , it was as fixed as any statue 's -- looking upon him with neither yielding nor unyielding , liking nor hatred , pride nor humility : nothing but a searching gaze . 
`` It is wholly unnecessary , Madam , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` to enter upon such discussions . '' 
`` These questions , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` are all wide of the purpose , Madam . '' 
She moved between him and the door to prevent his going away , and drawing her majestic figure to its height , looked steadily upon him still . 
`` Possibly not , Madam , '' he returned coolly . 
Mr. Dombey smiled , as he might have smiled at an inquiry whether he thought he could raise ten thousand pounds . 
Yes , for I am going ; '' she said it as in prompt reply to something in his face ; `` to appeal to you . '' 
Mr. Dombey , with a slightly condescending bend of his chin that rustled and crackled his stiff cravat , sat down on a sofa that was near him , to hear the appeal . 
`` If you can believe that I am of such a nature now , '' -- he fancied he saw tears glistening in her eyes , and he thought , complacently , that he had forced them from her , though none fell on her cheek , and she regarded him as steadily as ever , -- `` as would make what I now say almost incredible to myself , said to any man who had become my husband , but , above all , said to you , you may , perhaps , attach the greater weight to it . 
He knew at whom that word pointed , and frowned heavily . 
Mr. Dombey took a long respiration , as if he would have said , Oh ! 
`` There is no wealth , '' she went on , turning paler as she watched him , while her eyes grew yet more lustrous in their earnestness , `` that could buy these words of me , and the meaning that belongs to them . 
Throughout she had spoken in a low plain voice , that neither rose nor fell ; easing , she dropped the hand with which she had enforced herself to be so passionless and distinct , but not the eyes with which she had so steadily observed him . 
`` Madam , '' said Mr. Dombey , with his utmost dignity , `` I can not entertain any proposal of this extraordinary nature . '' 
She looked at him yet , without the least change . 
`` I can not , '' said Mr. Dombey , rising as he spoke , `` consent to temporise or treat with you , Mrs. Dombey , upon a subject as to which you are in possession of my opinions and expectations . 
He could not choose but look , although he looked to his dismay . 
`` I shall take my rightful course , Madam , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` undeterred , you may be sure , by any general declamation . '' 
She turned her back upon him , and , without reply , sat down before her glass . 
`` I place my reliance on your improved sense of duty , and more correct feeling , and better reflexion , Madam , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
He saw no more expression of any heed of him , in the mirror , than if he had been an unseen spider on the wall , or beetle on the floor , or rather , than if he had been the one or other , seen and crushed when she last turned from him , and forgotten among the ignominious and dead vermin of the ground . 
He looked back , as he went out at the door , upon the well-lighted and luxurious room , the beautiful and glittering objects everywhere displayed , the shape of Edith in its rich dress seated before her glass , and the face of Edith as the glass presented it to him ; and betook himself to his old chamber of cogitation , carrying away with him a vivid picture in his mind of all these things , and a rambling and unaccountable speculation -LRB- such as sometimes comes into a man 's head -RRB- how they would all look when he saw them next . 
For the rest , Mr. Dombey was very taciturn , and very dignified , and very confident of carrying out his purpose ; and remained so . 
He did not design accompanying the family to Brighton ; but he graciously informed Cleopatra at breakfast , on the morning of departure , which arrived a day or two afterwards , that he might be expected down , soon . 
Among other symptoms of this last affliction , she fell into the habit of confounding the names of her two sons-in-law , the living and the deceased ; and in general called Mr. Dombey , either `` Grangeby , '' or `` Domber , '' or indifferently , both . 
`` I said just now , Madam , '' returned Mr. Dombey , loudly and laboriously , `` that I am coming in a day or two . '' 
`` Devilish queer , Sir , '' whispered the Major to Mr. Dombey . 
No odious brutes must proach me 'till I 've shaken off this numbness ; '' and in a grisly resumption of her coquettish ways , she made a dab at the Major with her fan , but overset Mr. Dombey 's breakfast cup instead , which was in quite a different direction . 
Withers received these directions with becoming deference , and gave his guarantee for their execution ; but when he withdrew a pace or two behind her , it appeared as if he could n't help looking strangely at the Major , who could n't help looking strangely at Mr. Dombey , who could n't help looking strangely at Cleopatra , who could n't help nodding her bonnet over one eye , and rattling her knife and fork upon her plate in using them , as if she were playing castanets . 
Edith signed to him to retire , gave the word to go on , and left the objectionable Major to Mr. Dombey . 
To whom he returned , whistling . 
inquired Mr. Dombey . 
Mr. Dombey appeared to relish this waggish description of himself so very little , that the Major wound up with the horse 's cough , as an expression of gravity . 
`` I fear , '' returned Mr. Dombey , with much philosophy , `` that Mrs. Skewton is shaken . '' 
`` Change , however , '' pursued Mr. Dombey , `` and attention , may do much yet . '' 
What with the voices there , and her sweet voice , when they come near Mr. Dombey 's house , and Mr. Toots must leave her , he is so enslaved that he has not a scrap of free-will left ; when she gives him her hand at parting , he can not let it go . 
Intelligence of the event is sent to Mr. Dombey in town , who waits upon Cousin Feenix -LRB- not yet able to make up his mind for Baden-Baden -RRB- , who has just received it too . 
Mr. Dombey replies , `` Very much so . '' 
Mr. Dombey bows a negative . 
`` In reference to the obsequies , '' he hints , `` whether there is any suggestion -- '' `` Well , upon my life , '' says Cousin Feenix , stroking his chin , which he has just enough of hand below his wristbands to do ; `` I really do n't know . 
Mr. Dombey is clear that this wo n't do . 
`` Perhaps Brighton itself , '' Mr. Dombey suggests . 
`` And when , '' hints Mr. Dombey , `` would it be convenient ? '' 
says Mr. Dombey . 
Therefore Mr. Dombey arranges to take Cousin Feenix down on that day , and presently takes his leave , attended to the stairs by Cousin Feenix , who says , at parting , `` I 'm really excessively sorry , Dombey , that you should have so much trouble about it ; '' to which Mr. Dombey answers , `` Not at all . '' 
At the appointed time , Cousin Feenix and Mr. Dombey meet , and go down to Brighton , and representing , in their two selves , all the other mourners for the deceased lady 's loss , attend her remains to their place of rest . 
Cousin Feenix , sitting in the mourning-coach , recognises innumerable acquaintances on the road , but takes no other notice of them , in decorum , than checking them off aloud , as they go by , for Mr. Dombey 's information , as `` Tom Johnson . 
It was a service of some months ' duration , when early one morning , Rob opened the garden gate to Mr. Dombey , who was come to breakfast with his master , by appointment . 
`` You have a tasteful place here , Carker , '' said Mr. Dombey , condescending to stop upon the lawn , to look about him . 
`` Indeed , '' said Mr. Dombey , in his lofty patronage , `` any one might say so . 
Mr. Dombey , entering the house , noticed , as he had reason to do , the complete arrangement of the rooms , and the numerous contrivances for comfort and effect that abounded there . 
He directed a sharp glance and a sharp smile at Mr. Dombey as he spoke , and a sharper glance , and a sharper smile yet , when Mr. Dombey , drawing himself up before the fire , in the attitude so often copied by his second in command , looked round at the pictures on the walls . 
Cursorily as his cold eye wandered over them , Carker 's keen glance accompanied his , and kept pace with his , marking exactly where it went , and what it saw . 
Breakfast was soon set upon the table ; and , inviting Mr. Dombey to a chair which had its back towards this picture , he took his own seat opposite to it as usual . 
Mr. Dombey was even graver than it was his custom to be , and quite silent . 
Mr. Dombey reddened as he answered : `` Mrs. Dombey is quite well . 
`` Robin , you can leave us , '' said his master , at whose mild tones Robin started and disappeared , with his eyes fixed on his patron to the last . 
`` No , '' said Mr. Dombey , with magnificent indifference . 
said Mr. Dombey , with a frown . 
And although my defined and recognised connexion with your affairs is merely of a business character , still I have that spontaneous interest in everything belonging to you , that -- '' He stopped again , as if to discover whether he had led Mr. Dombey far enough yet . 
And again , with his chin resting on his hand , he leered at the picture . 
`` Carker , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` I am sensible that you do not limit your -- '' `` Service , '' suggested his smiling entertainer . 
`` No ; I prefer to say your regard , '' observed Mr. Dombey ; very sensible , as he said so , that he was paying him a handsome and flattering compliment , `` to our mere business relations . 
Mr. Carker bent his head slowly , and very softly rubbed his hands , as if he were afraid by any action to disturb the current of Mr. Dombey 's confidence . 
`` Your allusion to it is opportune , '' said Mr. Dombey , after a little hesitation ; `` for it prepares the way to what I was beginning to say to you , and reminds me that that involves no absolutely new relations between us , although it may involve more personal confidence on my part than I have hitherto -- '' `` Distinguished me with , '' suggested Carker , bending his head again : `` I will not say to you how honoured I am ; for a man like you well knows how much honour he has in his power to bestow at pleasure . '' 
`` Mrs. Dombey and myself , '' said Mr. Dombey , passing this compliment with august self-denial , `` are not quite agreed upon some points . 
`` Mrs. Dombey is distinguished by many rare attractions ; and has been accustomed , no doubt , to receive much adulation , '' said the smooth , sleek watcher of his slightest look and tone . 
Mr. Dombey 's thoughts instinctively flew back to the face that had looked at him in his wife 's dressing-room , when an imperious hand was stretched towards the door ; and remembering the affection , duty , and respect , expressed in it , he felt the blood rush to his own face quite as plainly as the watchful eyes upon him saw it there . 
`` Mrs. Dombey and myself , '' he went on to say , `` had some discussion , before Mrs. Skewton 's death , upon the causes of my dissatisfaction ; of which you will have formed a general understanding from having been a witness of what passed between Mrs. Dombey and myself on the evening when you were at our -- at my house . '' 
That any man could , under any possible circumstances , regret the being distinguished by his condescension and patronage , was a moral phenomenon which Mr. Dombey could not comprehend . 
He therefore responded , with a considerable accession of dignity . 
Your displeasure is no light matter , you must remember ; and to be visited with it before a third party -- '' `` Carker , '' said Mr. Dombey , arrogantly ; `` I presume that I am the first consideration ? '' 
`` Mrs. Dombey becomes a secondary consideration , when we are both in question , I imagine , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
`` Then I hope , Carker , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` that your regret in the acquisition of Mrs. Dombey 's displeasure , may be almost counterbalanced by your satisfaction in retaining my confidence and good opinion . '' 
`` Mrs. Dombey has expressed various opinions , '' said Mr. Dombey , with majestic coldness and indifference , `` in which I do not participate , and which I am not inclined to discuss , or to recall . 
Blended with the look that Carker bent upon him , was a devilish look at the picture over his head , that struck upon it like a flash of lightning . 
`` Now , Carker , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` I do not hesitate to say to you that I will carry my point . 
`` I know , '' said Mr. Dombey , with a majestic indication of assent , `` that I have only to command you . 
`` Yes ; if you please to adopt that form of words , '' said Mr. Dombey , in his tone of state ; `` and at present I do not conceive that Mrs. Dombey does that credit to it , to which it is entitled . 
There is a principle of opposition in Mrs. Dombey that must be eradicated ; that must be overcome : Mrs. Dombey does not appear to understand , '' said Mr. Dombey , forcibly , `` that the idea of opposition to Me is monstrous and absurd . '' 
`` You know me better , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
Mr. Dombey delivered himself of those words with most portentous stateliness . 
`` The first Mrs. Dombey had great good sense , '' said Mr. Dombey , in a gentlemanly toleration of the dead , `` and very correct feeling . '' 
Swiftly and darkly , Mr. Dombey 's face changed . 
His confidential agent eyed it keenly . 
`` I have approached a painful subject , '' he said , in a soft regretful tone of voice , irreconcilable with his eager eye . 
But for all he said , his eager eye scanned Mr. Dombey 's downcast face none the less closely ; and then it shot a strange triumphant look at the picture , as appealing to it to bear witness how he led him on again , and what was coming . 
`` Carker , '' said Mr. Dombey , looking here and there upon the table , and speaking in a somewhat altered and more hurried voice , and with a paler lip , `` there is no occasion for apology . 
`` Understand , then , '' returned Mr. Dombey , `` that you may make that -- that you will make that , if you please -- matter of direct objection from me to Mrs. Dombey . 
-- Carker , '' said Mr. Dombey , checking the unusual emotion with which he had spoken , and falling into a tone more like that in which he was accustomed to assert his greatness , `` you will have the goodness not to omit or slur this point , but to consider it a very important part of your instructions . '' 
Mr. Carker bowed his head , and rising from the table , and standing thoughtfully before the fire , with his hand to his smooth chin , looked down at Mr. Dombey with the evil slyness of some monkish carving , half human and half brute ; or like a leering face on an old water-spout . 
Mr. Dombey , recovering his composure by degrees , or cooling his emotion in his sense of having taken a high position , sat gradually stiffening again , and looking at the parrot as she swung to and fro , in her great wedding ring . 
`` I beg your pardon , '' said Carker , after a silence , suddenly resuming his chair , and drawing it opposite to Mr. Dombey 's , `` but let me understand . 
`` Yes , '' replied Mr. Dombey . 
Mr. Dombey repeated : not without hesitation . 
You see , '' he continued with a smile , and softly laying his velvet hand , as a cat might have laid its sheathed claws , on Mr. Dombey 's arm , `` if I perfectly understand what is in your mind , I am so much more likely to be useful , and to have the happiness of being effectually employed . 
`` Possibly not , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
`` It appears to me , '' said Mr. Dombey , with haughty reserve , and yet with some embarrassment , `` that Mrs. Dombey 's views upon the subject form no part it as it presents itself to you and me , Carker . 
`` I am not accustomed , Carker , as you know , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` to give such close reasons for any course of conduct I think proper to adopt , but I will gainsay nothing of this . 
`` -- or to place you , '' pursued Mr. Dombey , `` in a false position . '' 
Mr. Dombey seemed , at the moment , again to see her with her hand stretched out towards the door , and again to hear through the mild speech of his confidential agent an echo of the words , `` Nothing can make us stranger to each other than we are henceforth ! '' 
But he shook off the fancy , and did not shake in his resolution , and said `` Certainly , no doubt . '' 
quoth Carker , drawing his chair back to its old place -- for they had taken little breakfast as yet -- and pausing for an answer before he sat down . 
`` Nothing , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` but this . 
Breakfast concluded , Mr. Dombey 's horse was ordered out again , and Mr. Carker mounting his own , they rode off for the City together . 
Mr. Dombey received his conversation with the sovereign air of a man who had a right to be talked to , and occasionally condescended to throw in a few words to carry on the conversation . 
But Mr. Dombey , in his dignity , rode with very long stirrups , and a very loose rein , and very rarely deigned to look down to see where his horse went . 
In consequence of which it happened that Mr. Dombey 's horse , while going at a round trot stumbled on some loose stones , threw him , rolled over him , and lashing out with his iron-shod feet , in his struggles to get up kicked him . 
Otherwise that morning 's confidence would have been Mr. Dombey 's last . 
Yet even with the flush and hurry of this action red upon him , he bent over his prostrate chief with every tooth disclosed , and muttered as he stooped down , `` I have given good cause of offence to Mrs. Dombey now , if she knew it ! '' 
Mr. Dombey being insensible , and bleeding from the head and face , was carried by certain menders of the road , under Carker 's direction , to the nearest public-house , which was not far off , and where he was soon attended by divers surgeons , who arrived in quick succession from all parts , and who seemed to come by some mysterious instinct , as vultures are said to gather about a camel who dies in the desert . 
He rode direct to Mr. Dombey 's house , alighted at the door , and begged to see Mrs. Dombey on an affair of importance . 
The servant who showed him to Mr. Dombey 's own room , soon returned to say that it was not Mrs. Dombey 's hour for receiving visitors , and that he begged pardon for not having mentioned it before . 
But Mr. Dombey -- Florence uttered a sudden cry . 
He did not look at her , but at Edith . 
Mr. Dombey had met with an accident in riding . 
His horse had slipped , and he had been thrown . 
Florence wildly exclaimed that he was badly hurt ; that he was killed ! 
Upon his honour Mr. Dombey , though stunned at first , was soon recovered , and though certainly hurt was in no kind of danger . 
If this were not the truth , he , the distressed intruder , never could have had the courage to present himself before Mrs. Dombey . 
It was the truth indeed , he solemnly assured her . 
All this he said as if he were answering Edith , and not Florence , and with his eyes and his smile fastened on Edith . 
He then went on to tell her where Mr. Dombey was lying , and to request that a carriage might be placed at his disposal to bring him home . 
He saw , in an instant , that she was another slight of Mr. Dombey 's on his wife . 
`` -- may be informed that Mr. Dombey wishes to have his bed prepared in his own apartments down stairs , as he prefers those rooms to any other . 
I shall return to Mr. Dombey almost immediately . 
That every possible attention has been paid to his comfort , and that he is the object of every possible solicitude , I need not assure you , Madam . 
He bowed himself out , with his extremest show of deference and conciliation ; and having returned to Mr. Dombey 's room , and there arranged for a carriage being sent after him to the City , mounted his horse again , and rode slowly thither . 
He was very thoughtful as he went along , and very thoughtful there , and very thoughtful in the carriage on his way back to the place where Mr. Dombey had been left . 
It was only when sitting by that gentleman 's couch that he was quite himself again , and conscious of his teeth . 
About the time of twilight , Mr. Dombey , grievously afflicted with aches and pains , was helped into his carriage , and propped with cloaks and pillows on one side of it , while his confidential agent bore him company upon the other . 
As he was not be shaken , they moved at little more than a foot pace ; and hence it was quite dark when he was brought home . 
Mrs. Pipchin , bitter and grim , and not oblivious of the Peruvian Mines , as the establishment in general had good reason to know , received him at the door , and freshened the domestics with several little sprinklings of wordy vinegar , while they assisted in conveying him to his room . 
`` And nice company he is , Miss Floy , '' said Susan Nipper . 
`` Oh , he 's a precious piece of goods ! 
If ever he wants a character do n't let him come to me whatever he does , that 's all I tell him . '' 
Susan was unusually emphatic and destitute of punctuation in her discourse on this night , which was the night of Mr. Dombey 's being brought home , because , having been sent down stairs by Florence to inquire after him , she had been obliged to deliver her message to her mortal enemy Mrs. Pipchin ; who , without carrying it in to Mr. Dombey , had taken upon herself to return what Miss Nipper called a huffish answer , on her own responsibility . 
In a word , she had formed a determination , and an aspiring one : it being nothing less than this -- to penetrate to Mr. Dombey 's presence , and have speech of that gentleman alone . 
Not at all baffled by this discomfiture , which indeed had a stimulating effect , and put her on her mettle , she diminished nothing of her vigilance ; and at last discovered , towards evening , that her sworn foe Mrs. Pipchin , under pretence of having sat up all night , was dozing in her own room , and that Mr. Dombey was lying on his sofa , unattended . 
With a twitch -- not of her head merely , this time , but of her whole self -- the Nipper went on tiptoe to Mr. Dombey 's door , and knocked . 
said Mr. Dombey . 
Mr. Dombey , who was eyeing the fire , gave an amazed look at his visitor , and raised himself a little on his arm . 
said Mr. Dombey . 
Mr. Dombey moved his lips as if he were repeating the words , but he seemed so lost in astonishment at the presumption of the young woman as to be incapable of giving them utterance . 
Mr. Dombey , raised upon his arm and looking at her , offered no comment on this preparatory statement of facts . 
Mr. Dombey turned yet paler than his fall had made him , with indignation and astonishment ; and kept his eyes upon the speaker as if he accused them , and his ears too , of playing him false . 
said Mr. Dombey , glaring at her . 
Mr. Dombey , in a fury , put his hand out for the bell-rope ; but there was no bell-rope on that side of the fire , and he could not rise and cross to the other without assistance . 
The quick eye of the Nipper detected his helplessness immediately , and now , as she afterwards observed , she felt she had got him . 
`` Woman , '' cried Mr. Dombey , `` leave the room . '' 
Mr. Dombey , in a paroxysm of rage , made another grasp at the bell-rope that was not there , and , in its absence , pulled his hair rather than nothing . 
cried Mr. Dombey , calling out . 
I can not bear to hear it , '' said Susan Nipper , wiping her black eyes , and fixing them undauntedly on Mr. Dombey 's infuriated face . 
Susan favoured Mrs. Pipchin with a look she had invented expressly for her when they first became acquainted , and resigned the reply to Mr. Dombey . 
repeated Mr. Dombey , almost foaming . 
`` Do you call it managing this establishment , Madam , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` to leave a person like this at liberty to come and talk to me ! 
`` If you find people in my service who are not to be controlled , Mrs. Pipchin , '' said Mr. Dombey , turning back towards the fire , `` you know what to do with them , I presume . 
`` My comfort is , '' said Susan , looking back at Mr. Dombey , `` that I have told a piece of truth this day which ought to have been told long before and ca n't be told too often or too plain and that no amount of Pipchinses -- I hope the number of 'em may n't be great '' -LRB- here Mrs. Pipchin uttered a very sharp `` Go along with you ! '' 
The object of her regret was not long in coming to her , for the news soon spread over the house that Susan Nipper had had a disturbance with Mrs. Pipchin , and that they had both appealed to Mr. Dombey , and that there had been an unprecedented piece of work in Mr. Dombey 's room , and that Susan was going . 
`` I beg your pardon , Ma'am , but Mr. Dombey 's orders are imperative . '' 
Susan accepting this kind offer , Mr. Toots conducted her to his dwelling , where they were received by the Matron in question who fully justified his character of her , and by the Chicken who at first supposed , on seeing a lady in the vehicle , that Mr. Dombey had been doubled up , agreeably to his old recommendation , and Miss Dombey abducted . 
I did see from the first , that there was no affection on your part , for Mr. Dombey -- how could it possibly exist between such different subjects ! 
`` If I had done less , if I had done anything but that , I should not be speaking to you thus ; and I foresaw -- who could better foresee , for who has had greater experience of Mr. Dombey than myself ? 
I will not add to myself , as warning me to refrain even from that limited commendation of Mr. Dombey , in which I can honestly indulge , in order that I may not have the misfortune of saying anything distasteful to one whose aversion and contempt '' with great expression `` are so keen . '' 
`` It is honest in you , Sir , '' said Edith , `` to confess to your ` limited commendation , ' and to speak in that tone of disparagement , even of him : being his chief counsellor and flatterer ! '' 
`` At least it was natural , '' he resumed , `` that you should deem it quite possible to live with Mr. Dombey as his wife , at once without submitting to him , and without coming into such violent collision with him . 
But Madam , you did not know Mr. Dombey -LRB- as you have since ascertained -RRB- , when you thought that . 
You did not know how exacting and how proud he is , or how he is , if I may say so , the slave of his own greatness , and goes yoked to his own triumphal car like a beast of burden , with no idea on earth but that it is behind him and is to be drawn on , over everything and through everything . '' 
His teeth gleamed through his malicious relish of this conceit , as he went on talking : `` Mr. Dombey is really capable of no more true consideration for you , Madam , than for me . 
Mr. Dombey , in the plenitude of his power , asked me -- I had it from his own lips yesterday morning -- to be his go-between to you , because he knows I am not agreeable to you , and because he intends that I shall be a punishment for your contumacy ; and besides that , because he really does consider , that I , his paid servant , am an ambassador whom it is derogatory to the dignity -- not of the lady to whom I have the happiness of speaking ; she has no existence in his mind -- but of his wife , a part of himself , to receive . 
You may imagine how regardless of me , how obtuse to the possibility of my having any individual sentiment or opinion he is , when he tells me , openly , that I am so employed . 
You know how perfectly indifferent to your feelings he is , when he threatens you with such a messenger . 
As you , of course , have not forgotten that he did . '' 
`` I do not recal all this to widen the breach between yourself and Mr. Dombey , Madam -- Heaven forbid ! 
what would it profit me -- but as an example of the hopelessness of impressing Mr. Dombey with a sense that anybody is to be considered when he is in question . 
We who are about him , have , in our various positions , done our part , I dare say , to confirm him in his way of thinking ; but if we had not done so , others would -- or they would not have been about him ; and it has always been , from the beginning , the very staple of his life . 
Mr. Dombey has had to deal , in short , with none but submissive and dependent persons , who have bowed the knee , and bent the neck , before him . 
He has never known what it is to have angry pride and strong resentment opposed to him . '' 
`` But he will know it now ! '' 
`` Mr. Dombey , though a most honourable gentleman , '' he said , `` is so prone to pervert even facts to his own view , when he is at all opposed , in consequence of the warp in his mind , that he -- can I give a better instance than this ! 
-- he sincerely believes -LRB- you will excuse the folly of what I am about to say ; it not being mine -RRB- that his severe expression of opinion to his present wife , on a certain special occasion she may remember , before the lamented death of Mrs. Skewton , produced a withering effect , and for the moment quite subdued her ! '' 
Your own opinions are so strong , and , I am persuaded , so unalterable , '' he repeated those words slowly and with great emphasis , `` that I am almost afraid to incur your displeasure anew , when I say that in spite of these defects and my full knowledge of them , I have become habituated to Mr. Dombey , and esteem him . 
It began to be said , among these shrewd observers , that Jem Carker , of Dombey 's , was looking about him to see what he was worth ; and that he was calling in his money at a good time , like the long-headed fellow he was ; and bets were even offered on the Stock Exchange that Jem was going to marry a rich widow . 
The only decided alteration in him , was , that as he rode to and fro along the streets , he would fall into deep fits of musing , like that in which he had come away from Mr. Dombey 's house , on the morning of that gentleman 's disaster . 
`` Lodgings ; up near Mr. Dombey 's , '' returned Rob . 
`` Mr. Dombey -- you and I used to talk about him , sometimes , you know , '' said Rob to Mrs. Brown . 
`` You used to get me to talk about him . '' 
`` Well , Mr. Dombey , he 's had a fall from his horse , '' said Rob , unwillingly ; `` and my master has to be up there , more than usual , either with him , or Mrs. Dombey , or some of 'em ; and so we 've come to town . '' 
There , his master , so subtle and vigilant of eye , that Rob quaked before him , more than half expecting to be taxed with Mrs. Brown , gave him the usual morning 's box of papers for Mr. Dombey , and a note for Mrs. Dombey : merely nodding his head as an enjoinder to be careful , and to use dispatch -- a mysterious admonition , fraught in the Grinder 's imagination with dismal warnings and threats ; and more powerful with him than any words . 
Alone again , in his own room , Mr. Carker applied himself to work , and worked all day . 
`` We had word this morning , in the counting-house , that Mr. Dombey was doing well , '' replied his brother . 
I was only going to suggest to you that it would be a mistake to suppose that it is only you , who have been selected here , above all others , for advancement , confidence , and distinction -LRB- selected , in the beginning , I know , for your great ability and trustfulness -RRB- , and who communicate more freely with Mr. Dombey than any one , and stand , it may be said , on equal terms with him , and have been favoured and enriched by him -- that it would be a mistake to suppose that it is only you who are tender of his welfare and reputation . 
He rode near Mr. Dombey 's house ; and falling into a walk as he approached it , looked up at the windows . 
The window where he had once seen Florence sitting with her dog , attracted his attention first , though there was no light in it ; but he smiled as he carried his eyes up the tall front of the house , and seemed to leave that object superciliously behind . 
The barrier between Mr. Dombey and his wife , was not weakened by time . 
Was Mr. Dombey 's master-vice , that ruled him so inexorably , an unnatural characteristic ? 
But no such day had ever dawned on Mr. Dombey , or his wife ; and the course of each was taken . 
Through six months that ensued upon his accident , they held the same relations one towards the other . 
A marble rock could not have stood more obdurately in his way than she ; and no chilled spring , lying uncheered by any ray of light in the depths of a deep cave , could be more sullen or more cold than he . 
For days together , they would seldom meet , except at table , and when Mr. Dombey was present . 
Whenever Mr. Carker was of the party , as he often was , during the progress of Mr. Dombey 's recovery , and afterwards , Edith held herself more removed from her , and was more distant towards her , than at other times . 
The young lady with the back did not appear for some time after Mrs. Skewton 's death ; observing to some particular friends , with her usual engaging little scream , that she could n't separate the family from a notion of tombstones , and horrors of that sort ; but when she did come , she saw nothing wrong , except Mr. Dombey 's wearing a bunch of gold seals to his watch , which shocked her very much , as an exploded superstition . 
Edith was richly dressed , for she and Mr. Dombey were engaged in the evening to some large assembly , and the dinner-hour that day was late . 
When the dessert was placed upon the table , and they were left alone , with no servant in attendance , Mr. Dombey , who had been several times clearing his throat in a manner that augured no good , said : `` Mrs. Dombey , you know , I suppose , that I have instructed the housekeeper that there will be some company to dinner here to-morrow . '' 
`` Not a large party , '' pursued Mr. Dombey , with an indifferent assumption of not having heard her ; `` merely some twelve or fourteen . 
`` However doubtful reason I may have , Mrs. Dombey , '' said Mr. Dombey , still going majestically on , as if she had not spoken , `` to hold the occasion in very pleasant remembrance just now , there are appearances in these things which must be maintained before the world . 
`` Madam , '' cried Mr. Dombey , striking his hand upon the table , `` hear me if you please . 
He looked at her ; but the face she showed him in return would not have changed , if death itself had looked . 
`` Carker , '' said Mr. Dombey , turning more quietly to that gentleman , `` as you have been my medium of communication with Mrs. Dombey on former occasions , and as I choose to preserve the decencies of life , so far as I am individually concerned , I will trouble you to have the goodness to inform Mrs. Dombey that if she has no respect for herself , I have some respect for myself , and therefore insist on my arrangements for to-morrow . '' 
He saw her eyes move , while he spoke , and followed them with his own . 
`` My daughter will remain present , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
`` My daughter , Madam '' -- began Mr. Dombey . 
But Edith stopped him , in a voice which , although not raised in the least , was so clear , emphatic , and distinct , that it might have been heard in a whirlwind . 
`` I must tell you first , that there is a threatening appearance in your manner , Madam , '' said Mr. Dombey , `` which does not become you . '' 
`` As to my daughter , Madam , '' said Mr. Dombey , resuming the thread of his discourse , `` it is by no means inconsistent with her duty to me , that she should know what conduct to avoid . 
`` I would not stop you now , '' returned his wife , immoveable in eye , and voice , and attitude ; `` I would not rise and go away , and save you the utterance of one word , if the room were burning . '' 
Mr. Dombey moved his head , as if in a sarcastic acknowledgment of the attention , and resumed . 
But not with so much self-possession as before ; for Edith 's quick uneasiness in reference to Florence , and Edith 's indifference to him and his censure , chafed and galled him like a stiffening wound . 
`` Mrs. Dombey , '' said he , `` it may not be inconsistent with my daughter 's improvement to know how very much to be lamented , and how necessary to be corrected , a stubborn disposition is , especially when it is indulged in -- unthankfully indulged in , I will add -- after the gratification of ambition and interest . 
`` It may be natural enough , Mrs. Dombey , '' he pursued , `` that you should be uneasy in the presence of any auditors of these disagreeable truths ; though why -- '' he could not hide his real feeling here , or keep his eyes from glancing gloomily at Florence -- `` why any one can give them greater force and point than myself , whom they so nearly concern , I do not pretend to understand . 
`` So it is not enough , '' said Edith , `` that you know what has passed between yourself and me ; it is not enough that you can look here , '' pointing at Carker , who still listened , with his eyes cast down , `` and be reminded of the affronts you have put upon me ; it is not enough that you can look here , '' pointing to Florence with a hand that slightly trembled for the first and only time , `` and think of what you have done , and of the ingenious agony , daily , hourly , constant , you have made me feel in doing it ; it is not enough that this day , of all others in the year , is memorable to me for a struggle -LRB- well-deserved , but not conceivable by such as you -RRB- in which I wish I had died ! 
This was not the way to minister to Mr. Dombey 's greatness . 
Again , his neglected child , at this rough passage of his life , put forth by even this rebellious woman , as powerful where he was powerless , and everything where he was nothing ! 
He turned on Florence , as if it were she who had spoken , and bade her leave the room . 
`` I understand , Madam , '' said Mr. Dombey , with an angry flush of triumph , `` the spirit of opposition that turned your affections in that channel , but they have been met , Mrs. Dombey ; they have been met , and turned back ! '' 
for he turned sharply when she said so , `` what is the worse for me , is twenty million times the worse for you . 
`` Mrs. Dombey , '' said Mr. Dombey , resuming as much as he could of his arrogant composure , `` you will not conciliate me , or turn me from any purpose , by this course of conduct . '' 
`` I am not accustomed to ask , Mrs. Dombey , '' he observed ; `` I direct . '' 
`` Carker , '' said Mr. Dombey , speaking with knitted brows , and after a moment 's consideration , `` Mrs. Dombey is so forgetful of herself and me in all this , and places me in a position so unsuited to my character , that I must bring this state of matters to a close . '' 
exclaimed Mr. Dombey . 
he repeated , `` Mrs. Dombey ? '' 
People to say that Mr. Dombey -- Mr. Dombey ! 
-- was separated from his wife ! 
Common people to talk of Mr. Dombey and his domestic affairs ! 
Mr. Dombey absolutely laughed . 
She had better have been dead than laugh as she did , in reply , with her intent look fixed upon him . 
He had better have been dead , than sitting there , in his magnificence , to hear her . 
`` No , Mrs. Dombey , '' he resumed , `` No , Madam . 
-- `` As I was about to say to you , '' resumed Mr. Dombey , `` I must beg you , now that matters have come to this , to inform Mrs. Dombey , that it is not the rule of my life to allow myself to be thwarted by anybody -- anybody , Carker -- or to suffer anybody to be paraded as a stronger motive for obedience in those who owe obedience to me than I am myself . 
painful as my position is , at the best , and unusually painful in seeming to entertain a different opinion from you , '' addressing Mr. Dombey , `` I must ask , had you not better re-consider the question of a separation . 
I know how incompatible it appears with your high public position , and I know how determined you are when you give Mrs. Dombey to understand '' -- the light in his eyes fell upon her as he separated his words each from each , with the distinctness of so many bells -- `` that nothing but death can ever part you . 
Again the light in his eyes fell upon her , as she stood looking at her husband : now with an extraordinary and awful smile upon her face . 
`` Carker , '' returned Mr. Dombey , with a supercilious frown , and in a tone that was intended to be final , `` you mistake your position in offering advice to me on such a point , and you mistake me -LRB- I am surprised to find -RRB- in the character of your advice . 
As he bent his head to Mr. Dombey , with an air of deference that accorded ill with his words , though they were humbly spoken , he moved it round towards her , and kept his watching eyes that way . 
Without a word , without a shadow on the fire of her bright eye , without abatement of her awful smile , she looked on Mr. Dombey to the last , in moving to the door ; and left him . 
`` Mr. Dombey 's in his own room , Miss Dombey , '' said Mrs. Pipchin , `` and the best thing you can do , is to take off your things and go to bed this minute . '' 
`` Then Captain Gills , '' said Mr. Toots , -- `` and Lieutenant Walters -- are you aware that the most dreadful circumstances have been happening at Mr. Dombey 's house , and that Miss Dombey herself has left her father , who , in my opinion , '' said Mr. Toots , with great excitement , `` is a Brute , that it would be a flattery to call a -- a marble monument , or a bird of prey , -- and that she is not to be found , and has gone no one knows where ? '' 
With this speech , feelingly reminiscent of her not having been asked to dinner on the day of the first party , Mrs. Chick makes great use of her pocket handkerchief , and falls on Mr. Dombey 's neck . 
But Mr. Dombey frigidly lifts her off , and hands her to a chair . 
`` I thank you , Louisa , '' he says , `` for this mark of your affection ; but desire that our conversation may refer to any other subject . 
`` My dear Paul , '' rejoins his sister , with her handkerchief to her face , and shaking her head , `` I know your great spirit , and will say no more upon a theme so painful and revolting ; '' on the heads of which two adjectives , Mrs. Chick visits scathing indignation ; `` but pray let me ask you -- though I dread to hear something that will shock and distress me -- that unfortunate child Florence -- '' Louisa ! '' 
Mr. Dombey receives them with his usual dignity , and stands erect , in his old attitude , before the fire . 
He feels that the world is looking at him out of their eyes . 
`` An unusually cold spring , '' says Mr. Dombey -- to deceive the world . 
''' Mr. Dombey intimates his acquiescence . 
Mr. Dombey bows , without raising his eyes , and is silent . 
-- says the Major , very blue , indeed , and grasping his cane in the middle -- `` stated the case as regards the lady , I shall presume upon our friendship , Dombey , to offer a word on another aspect of it . 
`` I know it , '' rejoins Mr. Dombey . 
`` I hope not , '' replies Mr. Dombey . 
`` Major , '' returns Mr. Dombey , `` I am obliged . 
inquires the Major , after gasping and looking at him , for a minute . 
`` Any intelligence of him ? '' 
`` You will excuse -- even you , Major , '' replies Mr. Dombey , `` my entering into any further detail at present . 
It is Miss Tox , who has borrowed this disguise from her servant , and comes from Princess 's Place , thus secretly , to revive her old acquaintance with Mrs. Pipchin , in order to get certain information of the state of Mr. Dombey . 
As she passes Mr. Dombey 's room , she shrinks into the inmost depths of the black bonnet , and walks on tiptoe ; and there is not another atom in the world which haunts him so , that feels such sorrow and solicitude about him , as Miss Tox takes out under the black bonnet into the street , and tries to carry home shadowed from the newly-lighted lamps . 
But Miss Tox is not a part of Mr. Dombey 's world . 
She comes back every evening at dusk ; adding clogs and an umbrella to the bonnet on wet nights ; and bears the grins of Towlinson , and the huffs and rebuffs of Mrs. Pipchin , and all to ask how he does , and how he bears his misfortune : but she has nothing to do with Mr. Dombey 's world . 
Verily Miss Tox is easier of satisfaction than the world that troubles Mr. Dombey so much ! 
Nothing like the prevailing sensation has existed in the Counting House since Mr. Dombey 's little son died ; but all such excitements there , take a social , not to say jovial turn , and lead to the cultivation of good fellowship . 
A reconciliation is established on this propitious occasion between the acknowledged wit of the Counting House and an aspiring rival , with whom he has been at deadly feud for months ; and a little dinner being proposed , in commemoration of their happily restored amity , takes place at a neighbouring tavern ; the wit in the chair ; the rival acting as Vice-President . 
Mr. Dombey 's servants are becoming , at the same time , quite dissipated , and unfit for other service . 
They whisper about Miss Florence , and wonder where she is ; but agree that if Mr. Dombey do n't know , Mrs. Dombey does . 
Everything that is said and done about it except by Mr. Dombey , is done in chorus . 
Mr. Dombey and the world are alone together . 
But a few days had elapsed since Mr. Dombey had told Major Bagstock of his singular intelligence , singularly obtained , which might turn out to be valueless , and might turn out to be true ; and the world was not satisfied yet . 
As she drew herself within her shawl , and gathered it about her , the old woman complied ; and peering out , and beckoning , gave admission to Mr. Dombey , who stopped when he had set his foot within the door , and looked distrustfully around . 
asked Mr. Dombey , looking at her companion . 
A shadow fell upon his face not less expressive than if he had groaned aloud , `` Who does not know all about it ! '' 
but he looked at her steadily , and she , without any acknowledgement of his presence , looked at him . 
The shadow on his face was darker when he turned his glance away from her ; and even then it wandered back again , furtively , as if he were haunted by her bold eyes , and some remembrance they inspired . 
`` Woman , '' said Mr. Dombey to the old witch who was chuckling and lerring close at his elbow , and who , when he turned to address her , pointed stealthily at her daughter , and rubbed her hands , and pointed again , `` Woman ! 
What is it that you have to tell me concerning what I want to know ; and how does it happen that I can find voluntary intelligence in a hovel like this , '' with a disdainful glance about him , `` when I have exerted my power and means to obtain it in vain ? 
I do not think , '' he said , after a moment 's pause , during which he had observed her , sternly , `` that you are so audacious as to mean to trifle with me , or endeavour to impose upon me . 
`` Money , '' returned Mr. Dombey , apparently relieved , and re-assured by this enquiry , `` will bring about unlikely things , I know . 
`` Not here , I should imagine , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
`` You have a saucy tongue , Jade , '' said Mr. Dombey . 
He started , in spite of himself , and looked at her with astonishment . 
The old woman who had shown great uneasiness during this speech which had a tendency to depreciate her expected gains , pulled Mr. Dombey softly by the sleeve , and whispered to him not to mind her . 
He glanced at them both , by turns , with a haggard look , and said , in a deeper voice than was usual with him : `` Go on -- what do you know ? '' 
said Mr. Dombey . 
`` Patience , '' she croaked , laying her hand , like a claw , upon his arm . 
Mr. Dombey followed her with his eyes as she hobbled to the door , and looked out again : and then his glance sought her daughter ; but she remained impassive , silent , and regardless of him . 
`` Do you tell me , woman , '' he said , when the bent figure of Mrs. Brown came back , shaking its head and chattering to itself , `` that there is another person expected here ? '' 
said the old woman , looking up into his face , and nodding . 
Her sharp eye had detected an involuntary expression of this feeling on his part , which was not unreasonable under the circumstances . 
Mr. Dombey looked in ; assured himself that it was an empty , crazy room ; and signed to her to put the light back in its place . 
`` How long , '' he asked , `` before this person comes ? '' 
He made no answer ; but began pacing the room with an irresolute air , as if he were undecided whether to remain or depart , and as if he had some quarrel with himself for being there at all . 
But soon his tread grew slower and heavier , and his face more sternly thoughtful ; as the object with which he had come , fixed itself in his mind , and dilated there again . 
While he thus walked up and down with his eyes on the ground , Mrs. Brown , in the chair from which she had risen to receive him , sat listening anew . 
The monotony of his step , or the uncertainty of age , made her so slow of hearing , that a footfall without had sounded in her daughter 's ears for some moments , and she had looked up hastily to warn her mother of its approach , before the old woman was roused by it . 
`` And here 's her health , '' said the Grinder , glancing at Alice , who sat with her eyes fixed , as it seemed to him , on the wall behind him , but in reality on Mr. Dombey 's face at the door , `` and wishing her the same and many of 'em ! '' 
He drained the glass to these two sentiments , and set it down . 
he proceeded . 
At the end of every letter her eyes and Mr. Dombey 's met , as if each of them sought to be confirmed by the other ; and thus they both , spelt , D. I. J. O. N. `` There ! '' 
Not until he had been heavily asleep sometime , and was snoring roundly , did the old woman turn towards the door where Mr. Dombey stood concealed , and beckon him to come through the room , and pass out . 
Prying and tormenting as the world was , it did Mr. Dombey the service of nerving him to pursuit and revenge . 
It roused his passion , stung his pride , twisted the one idea of his life into a new shape and made some gratification of his wrath , the object into which his whole intellectual existence resolved itself . 
All the stubbornness and implacability of his nature , all its hard impenetrable quality , all its gloom and moroseness , all its exaggerated sense of personal importance , all its jealous disposition to resent the least flaw in the ample recognition of his importance by others , set this way like many streams united into one , and bore him upon their tide . 
The most impetuously passionate and violently impulsive of mankind would have been a milder enemy to encounter then the sullen Mr. Dombey wrought to this . 
It was on very same day whose evening set upon the last chapter , and when Mr. Dombey 's world was busiest with the elopement of his wife , that the window of the room in which the brother and sister sat at their early breakfast , was darkened by the unexpected shadow of a man coming to the little porch : which man was Perch the Messenger . 
John Carker broke the seal which was Mr. Dombey 's and possessing himself of the contents , which were very brief , replied , `` No . 
`` Mr. Dombey . 
He passed twice through the counting-house while I was there . 
I had been able to avoid him before , but of course could not hope to do that long . 
I know how natural it was that he should regard my presence as something offensive ; I felt it must be so , myself . '' 
`` He did not say so ? '' 
`` No ; he said nothing : but I saw that his glance rested on me for a moment , and I was prepared for what would happen -- for what has happened . 
This concluded , the sister applied herself , with a less anxious breast , to her domestic occupations ; and the grey-haired man , late Junior of Dombey 's , devoted the first day of his unwonted liberty to working in the garden . 
Mr. Dombey is unapproachable by any one , and his state of mind is haughty , rash , unreasonable , and ungovernable , now . 
But he is disturbed and agitated now beyond all common bounds , and it may pass . 
With an impotent ferocity he raged at Edith , and hated Mr. Dombey and hated himself , but still he fled , and could do nothing else . 
Again and again he listened for the sound of wheels behind . 
Again and again his fancy heard it , coming on louder and louder . 
At last he was so persuaded of this , that he cried out , `` Stop ! '' 
Wen you could go and blow on this here match to the stiff ` un ; '' by which depreciatory appellation it has been since supposed that the Game One intended to signify Mr. Dombey ; `` and when you could knock the winner and all the kit of 'em dead out o ' wind and time , are you going to give in ? 
Mr. Sownds the Beadle , and Mrs. Miff the pew-opener , are early at their posts in the fine church where Mr. Dombey was married . 
`` To Mr. Dombey , '' says the old man . 
Which act of somnambulism he supposed to have originated in the impression made upon him by the change in Mr. Dombey 's face . 
Then would he inform them how he had once said , `` Might I make so bold as ask , Sir , are you unhappy in your mind ? '' 
and how Mr. Dombey had replied , `` My faithful Perch -- but no , it can not be ! '' 
and with that had struck his hand upon his forehead , and said , `` Leave me , Perch ! '' 
Thus , he generally brought away a soothed conscience and left an agreeable impression behind him , when he returned to his bracket : again to sit watching the strange faces of the accountants and others , making so free with the great mysteries , the Books ; or now and then to go on tiptoe into Mr. Dombey 's empty room , and stir the fire ; or to take an airing at the door , and have a little more doleful chat with any straggler whom he knew ; or to propitiate , with various small attentions , the head accountant : from whom Mr. Perch had expectations of a messengership in a Fire-Office , when the affairs of the House should be wound up . 
It was understood that the affairs of the House were to be wound up as they best could be ; that Mr. Dombey freely resigned everything he had , and asked for no favour from any one . 
That any resumption of the business was out of the question , as he would listen to no friendly negotiation having that compromise in view ; that he had relinquished every post of trust or distinction he had held , as a man respected among merchants ; that he was dying , according to some ; that he was going melancholy mad , according to others ; that he was a broken man , according to all . 
The principal slipper and dogs ' collar seller , at the corner of the court , would have doubted the propriety of throwing up his forefinger to the brim of his hat , any more , if Mr. Dombey had appeared there now ; and the ticket porter , with his hands under his white apron , moralised good sound morality about ambition , which -LRB- he observed -RRB- was not , in his opinion , made to rhyme to perdition , for nothing . 
He had treated Mr. Dombey with due respect and deference through many years , but he had never disguised his natural character , or meanly truckled to him , or pampered his master passion for the advancement of his own purposes . 
He worked early and late to unravel whatever was complicated or difficult in the records of the transactions of the House ; was always in attendance to explain whatever required explanation ; sat in his old room sometimes very late at night , studying points by his mastery of which he could spare Mr. Dombey the pain of being personally referred to ; and then would go home to Islington , and calm his mind by producing the most dismal and forlorn sounds out of his violoncello before going to bed . 
He was solacing himself with this melodious grumbler one evening , and , having been much dispirited by the proceedings of the day , was scraping consolation out of its deepest notes , when his landlady -LRB- who was fortunately deaf , and had no other consciousness of these performances than a sensation of something rumbling in her bones -RRB- announced a lady . 
`` And Mr. Dombey , is he personally ruined ? '' 
`` Will he have no private fortune left ? 
He drummed with the fingers of one hand on the table , looking wistfully at her , and shaking his head , said , after a pause : `` The extent of Mr. Dombey 's resources is not accurately within my knowledge ; but though they are doubtless very large , his obligations are enormous . 
He is a gentleman of high honour and integrity . 
Mr. Dombey , whom he served so many years -- you know upon what terms -- reduced , as you describe ; and we quite rich ! '' 
Mr. Dombey may , perhaps , be led to believe that it is something saved , unexpectedly , from the wreck of his fortunes ; or that it is a voluntary tribute to his honourable and upright character , from some of those with whom he has had great dealings ; or that it is some old lost debt repaid . 
That you will never speak of it to John , whose chief happiness in this act of restitution is to do it secretly , unknown , and unapproved of ; that only a very small part of the inheritance may be reserved to us , until Mr. Dombey shall have possessed the interest of the rest for the remainder of his life ; that you will keep our secret , faithfully -- but that I am sure you will ; and that , from this time , it may seldom be whispered , even between you and me , but may live in my thoughts only as a new reason for thankfulness to Heaven , and joy and pride in my brother . '' 
Upon my honour , I will keep your secret And if it should be found that Mr. Dombey is so reduced as I fear he will be , acting on a determination that there seem to be no means of influencing , I will assist you to accomplish the design , on which you and John are jointly resolved . '' 
There is a little talk about Mr. Dombey , but very little . 
It is chiefly speculation as to how long he has known that this was going to happen . 
Mrs. Perch , presenting the case in a new light , even shows that delicacy towards Mr. Dombey , shut up in his own rooms , imperatively demands precipitate retreat . 
Mrs. Pipchin by this time looms dark in her black bombazeen skirts , black bonnet , and shawl ; and has her personal property packed up ; and has her chair -LRB- late a favourite chair of Mr. Dombey 's , and the dead bargain of the sale -RRB- ready near the street door ; and is only waiting for a fly van , going to-night to Brighton on private service , which is to call for her , by private contract , and convey her home . 
Dombey and Son was no more -- his children no more . 
He thought of it to-morrow ; and sitting thinking in his chair , saw , in the glass , from time to time , this picture : A spectral , haggard , wasted likeness of himself , brooded and brooded over the empty fireplace . 
It happened accidentally , and thus : The Captain , having seen Florence and her baby for a moment , to his unbounded content , and having had a long talk with Walter , turned out for a walk ; feeling it necessary to have some solitary meditation on the changes of human affairs , and to shake his glazed hat profoundly over the fall of Mr. Dombey , for whom the generosity and simplicity of his nature were awakened in a lively manner . 
To go back to old Sol Gills at the Wooden Midshipman 's , and not first go round to ask how Mr. Dombey was -- albeit the house where he lay was out of London , and away on the borders of a fresh heath -- was quite out of the Captain 's course . 
I trust my friend Dombey will not allow his mind to be too much preyed upon , by any mere loss of fortune . 
`` I will leave , '' said Cousin Feenix , `` a card for my friend Dombey , sincerely trusting that he will pick up health and strength with every returning hour . 
And I hope my friend Dombey will do me the favour to consider me a man who has a devilish warm admiration of his character , as , in point of fact , a British merchant and a devilish upright gentleman . 
My place in the country is in a most confounded state of dilapidation , but if my friend Dombey should require a change of air , and would take up his quarters there , he would find it a remarkably healthy spot -- as it need be , for it 's amazingly dull . 
I should recommend sherry in this case , on account of my friend Dombey being in an invalided condition ; which might occasion rum to fly -- in point of fact to his head -- and throw him into a devil of a state . '' 
But I hope and trust I have acted for the best , and that my honourable friend Dombey will find his mind relieved by the disclosures which have taken place . 
`` You are quite right , Mr. Gills , '' says Mr. Dombey . 
There is a very halo of delight round his glowing forehead . 
`` We always promised ourselves , Sir , '' observes Mr. Gills , `` Ned and myself , I mean -- '' Mr. Dombey nods at the Captain , who shines more and more with speechless gratification . 
says Mr. Dombey . 
`` Florence , my child '' -- and turns to kiss her . 
and the Captain exhibiting a strong desire to clink his glass against some other glass , Mr. Dombey , with a ready hand , holds out his . 
Mr. Dombey is a white-haired gentleman , whose face bears heavy marks of care and suffering ; but they are traces of a storm that has passed on for ever , and left a clear evening in its track . 
Ambitious projects trouble him no more . 
His only pride is in his daughter and her husband . 
He has a silent , thoughtful , quiet manner , and is always with his daughter . 
` Why that , under the very eye of Mr. Dombey , there is a foundation going on , upon which a -- an Edifice ; ' that was Mrs. Toots 's word , '' says Mr. Toots exultingly , ``` is gradually rising , perhaps to equal , perhaps excel , that of which he was once the head , and the small beginnings of which -LRB- a common fault , but a bad one , Mrs. Toots said -RRB- escaped his memory . 
