You 'll put up what Mr. Forester will want , for a week , you know -- he does not know the country yet , Tim ; -- and , hark you , what wine have I at Tom Draw 's ? '' 
Bid her come up to Draw 's to-morrow night -- I 've got a red and yellow frock for her -- a deuce of a concern ! '' 
and amid a most discordant chorus of African merriment , we passed by a neat farm-house shaded by two glorious locusts on the right , and a new red brick mansion , the pride of the village , with a flourishing store on the left -- and wheeled up to the famous Tom Draw 's tavern -- a long white house with a piazza six feet wide , at the top of eight steep steps , and a one-story kitchen at the end of it ; a pump with a gilt pine-apple at the top of it , and horse-trough ; a wagon shed and stable sixty feet long ; a sign-post with an indescribable female figure swinging upon it , and an ice house over the way ! 
-- the end of a chapter is no place to introduce -- Tom Draw ! 
Muchas I had heard of Tom Draw , I was , I must confess , taken altogether aback when I , for the first time , set eyes upon him . 
`` Right well , Tom , ca n't you see ? 
He dropped down here out of the moon , Tom , I believe ! 
at least I thought about as much of seeing the man in the moon , as of meeting himin this wooden country -- but here he is -- as you see -- come all the way to take a look at the natives . 
And so , you see , as you 're about the greatest curiosity I know of in these parts , I brought him straight up here to take a peep ! 
Look at him , Frank -- look at him well ! 
`` And that reminds me , '' exclaimed Tom , who with a ludicrous mixture of pleasure , bushfulness , and mock anger , had been listening to what he evidently deemed a high encomium -- `` that wehav ` nt drinked yet -- have you quit drink , Archer , since I was to York ? 
Now , Tom , I suppose you have got no supper for us ! '' 
-- you snooping little devil , '' yelled Tom , addressing his second hope , a fine dark-eyed , bright-looking lad of ten or twelve years -- `` Do n't you see Mr. Archer 's come ? 
No , no , Tom ! 
And now , Tom , are there any cock ? '' 
You 'll go , Tom ? '' 
`` Pretty fair , pretty fair , I guess , '' replied stout Tom , `` I harnt been there myself though , but Jem was down with the hounds arter an old fox t ' other day , and sure enough he saidthe cock kept flopping up quite thick afore him -- but then the critter willlie , Harry -- he willlie like h -- ll , you know ; but somehow I concaits there be cock there too ; and then , as I was saying , we 'll stop at the great spring and get a bite of summat , and then beat Hell-hole ; you 'll have sport there for sartin ! 
`` Come , Tom , '' cried Archer , `` you must take a bite with us -- Tim , bring us in three bottles of champagne , and lots of ice , do you hear ? '' 
`` No need to tell him that , '' cried Tom , `` he 's something like yourself ; I tellyou , Archer , if Tim ever dies of thirst , it must be where there is nothing wet , but water ? '' 
Give me a slice of beef , Frank ; that old Goth would cut it an inch thick if I let him touch it ; out with a cork , Tom ! 
replied Tom with an eructation , which might have preceded an eruption of Vesuvius , and which , by the apparent gusto of the speaker , seemed to betoken that the wine `` had returned pleasant -- `` that goes good ! 
`` It 's all below , every bottle of it , '' answered Tom : `` I would n't use such rot-gut stuff , no , not for vinegar . 
-- and what did Tom do here , but mix it , half and half , with brandy , nutmeg , and sugar , and drink it for milk punch ! '' 
`` I did so , by the eternal , '' replied Tom , bolting a huge lump of beef , in order to enable himself to answer -- `` I did so , and good milk punch it made too , but it was too weak ! 
Tom Draw , especially , though all his jokes were not such altogether as I can venture to insert in my chaste paragraphs , and though at times his oaths were too extravagantly rich to brook repetition , shone forth resplendent . 
No longer did I wonder at what I had before deemed Harry Archer 's strange hallucination ; Tom Draw isa decided genius -- rough as a pine knot in his native woods -- but full of mirth , of shrewdness , of keen mother wit , of hard horse sense , and last , not least , of the most genuine milk of human kindness . 
`` That 's good , Tom , '' he said , pausing after the first sip ; `` that 's the best I ever tasted here -- how old 's that ? '' 
Tom replied ; `` five years last fall ! 
Daddy Tom made it me out of my own best apples -- take a horn , Mr. Forester , '' he added , turning to me -- `` it 's first bestcider sperrits -- better a d -- n sight than that Scotch stuff you make such an etarnal fuss about , toting it up here every time , as if we 'd nothing fit to drink in the country ! '' 
with a good slap on Tom 's broad shoulders . 
cried Tom , as the two setters bounded into the room , joyful at their release -- `` good dog ! 
there Tom -- have done with that , '' cried Harry ; `` you 'll have the dogs so full that they ca n't run ! '' 
Toward these we took our way by the same road which we had followed in an opposite direction on the previous night -- but for a short space only -- for having crossed the stream , by the same bridge which we had passed on entering the village , Tom Draw pulled down a set of bars to the left , and strode out manfully into the stubble . 
hey , Tom ? 
exclaimed Tom ; `` at your old work already , hey ? 
`` Not a bit of it , '' cried Tom -- `` here , Yorkshire -- Ducklegs -- here , what 's your name -- get away you with those big dogs -- atwixt the swamp hole , and the brush there by the fence , and look out that you mark every bird to an inch ! 
Scarce had I passed the butter-nut , when , even as Tom had said , up flapped a woodcock scarcely ten yards before me , in the open path , and rising heavily to clear the branches of a tall thorn bush , showed me his full black eye , and tawny breast , as fair a shot as could be fancied . 
mark , Tom ! 
Steady now , till Tom gets loaded ! '' 
Turned by the fall of the two leading birds , the bevy again wheeled , still rising higher , and now flying very fast ; so that , as I saw by the direction which they took , they would probably give Draw a chance of getting in both barrels . 
Before we met again , however , I had the luck to pick up a third woodcock , and as I heard another double shot from Archer , and two single bangs from Draw , I judged that my companions had not been less successful than myself . 
`` And I , two cock and a brace , '' cried Tom , `` and missed another cock ; but he 's down in the meadow here , behind that ` ere stums alder ! '' 
Tom and myself , nothing loth , obeyed the hint , and sipped our modicums of distilled waters out of our private flasks . 
Tom Draw , you can get yours without a dog ! 
This job was soon done , for Draw and Harry bagged their birds cleverly at the first rise ; and although mine got off at first without a shot , by dodging round a birch tree straight in Tim 's face , and flew back slap toward the thicket , yet he pitched in its outer skirt , and as he jumped up wild I cut him down with a broken pinion and a shot through his bill at fifty yards , and Chase retrieved him well . 
`` The boy canshoot some , '' observed Tom Draw , who loved to bother Timothy ; `` the boy canshoot some , though he dooscome from Yorkshire ! '' 
`` He has you there , Tom ! 
Now , Frank , do fancy Tom Draw in a cage at Borough-bridge or Catterick fair ! 
`` Very well -- that 's it ; now let go the setters ; take Flash and Dan along with you , and cut across the country as straight as you can go to the spring head , where we lunched last year ; that day , you know Tom , when McTavish frightened the bull out of the meadow -- under the pin-oak tree . 
`` Come up , Tom ; come up , Frank , they are all here ; we must get in six barrels ; they will not move -- come up , I say ! '' 
Now we were all in line : Harry the centre man , I on the right , and Tom on the left hand ! 
`` Fall back , Tom , if you please , five yards or so , '' he said , as coolly as if he were completely unconcerned , `` and you come forward , Frank , as many ; I want to drive them to the left , into those low red bushes -- that will do -- now then , I 'll flush them -- never mind me , boys , I 'll reserve my fire . '' 
Tom Draw 's gun , as I well believe , was at his shoulder when they rose ; at least his first shot was discharged before they had flown half a rood , and of course harmlessly -- the charge must have been driven through them like a single ball ; his second barrel instantly succeeded , and down came two birds , caught in the act of crossing . 
I am myself a quick shot , tooquick if any thing , yet my first barrel was exploded a moment after Tom Draw 's second ; the other followed , and I had the satisfaction of bringing both my birds down handsomely ; then up went Harry 's piece -- the bevy being now twenty or twenty-five yards distant -- cocking it as it rose , he pulled the trigger almost before it touched his shoulder , so rapid was the movement ; and , though he lowered the stock a little to cock the second barrel , a moment scarcely passed between the two reports , and almost on the instant two quail were fluttering out their lives among the bog grass . 
-- one bird Tom Draw missed clean , and the remaining one we could not find again -- another dram of whiskey , and into Seer 's great swamp we started -- a large piece of woodland , with every kind of lying . 
At one end it was open , with soft black loamy soil , covered with docks and colts-foot leaves under the shade of large but leafless willows , and here we picked up a good many scattered woodcock ; afterward we got into the heavy thicket with much tangled grass , wherein we flushed a bevy , but they all took to tree , and we made very little of them -- and here Tom Draw began to blow and labor -- the covert was too thick , the bottom too deep and unsteady for him . 
-- you all the time , Tom ; you , Frank , till you get to that tall thunder-shivered ash tree ; turn in there , and follow up the margin of a wide slank you will see ; but be careful , the mud is very deep , and dangerous in places ! 
Scarce had he got six yards into the brake , before both spaniels quested ; and , to my no small wonder , the jungle seemed alive with woodcock -- eight or nine , at the least , flapped up at once , and skimmed along the tongue of coppice toward the high wood , which ran along the valley , as I learned afterward , for full three miles in length -- while four or five more wheeled off to the sides , giving myself and Draw fair shots , by which we did not fail to profit ; but I confess it was with absolute astonishment that I saw two of those turned over , which flew inward , killed by the marvellously quick and unerring aim of Archer , where a less thorough sportsman would have been quite unable to discharge a gun at all , so dense was the tangled jungle . 
Sothoroughly was I tired out by the effects of the first day 's fagging I had undergone in many months , and so sound was the slumber into which I sank the moment my head touched the pillow , that it scarcely seemed as if five minutes had elapsed between my falling into sweet forgetfulness , and my starting bolt upright in bed , aroused by the vociferous shout , and ponderous trampling -- equal to nothing less than that of a full-grown rhinoceros -- with which Tom Draw rushed , long before the sun was up , into my chamber . 
he exclaimed ; why the d -- l ar n't you up and ready ? 
`` He cut his throat once -- you may see the scar now -- in a fit of delirium tremens , and Tom Draw -- who , though he is perpetually cursing him for the most lying critter under heaven , has , I believe , a sort of fellow feeling for him -- nursed him and got him well ; and ever since he has hung about here , getting at times a country stallion to look after , at others hunting , or fishing , or doing little jobs about the stable , for which Tom gives him plenty of abuse , plenty to eat , and as little rum as possible , for if he gets a second glass it is all up with Jem Lyn for a week at least . 
`` He came to see me once in New York , when I was down upon my back with a broken leg -- I was lying in the parlor , about three weeks after the accident had happened . 
`` There never was sich dogs -- there never was afore in Orange , '' said Tom . 
Thus saying he mounted , without more delay , his favorite , the gray ; while I backed , nothing loth , the chestnut horse ; and at the same time to my vast astonishment , from under the long shed out rode the mighty Tom , bestriding a tall powerful brown mare , showing a monstrous deal of blood combined with no slight bone -- equipped with a cavalry bridle , and strange to say , withoutthe universal martingal ; he was rigged just as usual , with the exception of a broad-brimmed hat in place of his fur cap , and grasped in his right hand a heavy smooth-bored rifle , while with the left he wheeled his mare , with a degree of active skill , which I should certainly have looked for any where rather than in so vast a mass of flesh as that which was exhibited by our worthy host . 
`` Now ar n't it a strange thing , '' said Tom , '' `` ar n't it a strange thing , Mr. Forester , that every critter under Heaven takes somehow nat ` rally to that are Archer -- the very hounds -- old Whino there ! 
cried Tom , suddenly pulling up at the door of a neat farm-house on the brow of a hill , with a clear streamlet sweeping round its base , and a fine piece of woodland at the farther side . 
Tom forthwith handed him his own , and the next thing I heard was Blain exclaiming that it was `` desperate pretty powder , '' and wondering if it shot strong . 
answered Tom . 
Tom Draw , put Mr. Forester at my old post down by the big pin-oak at the creek side ; and you stand there , Frank , still as a church-mouse . 
At the same moment Tom and his companions re-appeared from the stables , where they had been securing their four-footed friends ; and , after a few seconds , spent in running ramrods down the barrels to see that all was right , inspecting primings , knapping flints , or putting on fresh copper caps , it was announced that all was ready ; and passing through the farm-yard , we entered , through a set of bars , a broad bright buckwheat stubble . 
`` Them chaps has gone the right way , '' Tom exclaimed , with a deep sigh , who had with wondrous difficulty refrained from firing into them , though he was loaded with buckshot ; `` right in the course we count to take this forenoon . 
he continued , with a most boisterous burst of laughter -- `` well done , horse , any how ! '' 
-- as Peacock , who had been chafing ever since he parted from his comrade Bob , went at the fence as though he were about to take it in his stroke -- stopped short when within a yard of it , and then bucked over it , without touching a splinter , although it was at least five feet , and shaking me so much , that , greatly to Tom 's joy , I showed no little glimpse of daylight . 
`` I reckon if they runthe meadows , you 'll hardly ridethem , Forester , '' he grinned ; `` but now away with you . 
Finishing his discourse , he squatted himself down on the stool of a large hemlock , which , being recently cut down , cumbered the woodside with its giant stem , and secured him , with its evergreen top now lowly laid and withering , from the most narrow scrutiny ; while I , giving the gallant horse his head , went at a brisk hand-gallop across the firm short turf of the fair sloping hill-side , taking a moderate fence in my stroke , which Peacock cleared in a style that satisfied me Harry had by no means exaggerated his capacity to act as hunter , in lieu of the less glorious occupation , to which in general he was doomed . 
And now Tom sees him -- how quietly he steals up to the fence . 
he has fired ! 
he waves his hat and points this way ! 
Can he have missed ? 
he has got a fox ! 
-- he lifts it out by the brush -- there must have been two , then , on foot together . 
He has done well to get that he has killed away , or they would have stopped on him ! 
the leaves rustle here beside me , with a quick patter -- the twigs crackle -- it is he ! 
If Tom Draw saw him now , he could have some excuse for calling him `` half horse '' -- and he does see him ! 
He waves his hat and hurries back as fast as he is able to the horses , well knowing that , for pedestrians at least , the morning 's sport is ended . 
He can not hold five minutes ; and see , there comes fat Tom , pounding that mare along the road , as if her fore-feet were of hammered iron ; he has come up along the turnpike , at an infernal pace , while that turn favored him ; but he will only see us kill him , and that , too , at a respectful distance . 
the hounds are viewing him . 
his day is come . 
See how he twists and doubles . 
now they have him ! 
that short turn has saved him , and he gains the fence -- he will lie down there ! 
he stretches gallantly across the next field -- game to the last , poor devil ! 
`` And we , '' said I , `` have marked down fifteen brace already toward it ; right in the line of our beat , Tom says . '' 
And in a short half hour we were all once again assembled about Tom 's hospitable board , and making such a breakfast , on every sort of eatable that can be crowded on a breakfast table , as sportsmen only have a right to make ; nor they , unless they have walked ten , or galloped half as many miles , before it . 
Why , Tom , by heaven ! 
Whenwe had entered Tom 's hospitable dwelling , and delivered over our guns to be duly cleaned , and the dogs to be suppered , by Tim Matlock , I passed through the parlor , on my way to my own crib , where I found Archer in close confabulation with a tall raw-boned Dutchman , with a keen freckled face , small ` cute gray eyes , looking suspiciously about from under the shade of a pair of straggling sandy eyebrows , small reddish whiskers , and a head of carrotty hair as rough and tangled as a fox 's back . 
`` Frank , '' exclaimed Harry as I entered , `` I make you know Mr. McTaggart , better known hereabouts as the flying Dutchman , though how he came by a Scotch name I ca n't pretend to say ; he keeps the best quarter horses , and plays the best hand of whist in the country ; and now , get yourself clean as quick as possible , for Tom never gives one five minutes wherein to dress himself -- so bustle . '' 
And off he went as he had finished speaking , and I , shaking my new friend cordially by an exceeding bony unwashed paw , incontinently followed his example -- and in good time I did so ; for I had scarcely changed my shooting boots and wet worsteds for slippers and silk socks , before my door , as usual , was lounged open by Tom 's massy foot , and I was thus exhorted . 
`` Why , is there any other use for water , Tom ? '' 
Cuss all such trash , says I. '' While I was listening in mute astonishment , wondering whether in truththe old savage never cleaned his teeth , Archer made his appearance , and to a better supper never did I sit down , than was spread at the old round table , in such profusion as might have well sufficed to feed a troop of horse . 
`` What have we got here , Tom ? '' 
cried Harry as he took the head of the social board ; `` quail-pie , by George -- are there any peppers in it , Tom ? '' 
Pie , Tom , or roast pig ? '' 
And for some time no sound was heard , but the continuous clatter of knives and forks , the occasional popping of a cork , succeeded by the gurgling of the generous wine as it flowed into the tall rummers ; and every now and then a loud and rattling eructation from Tom Draw ; who , as he said , could never half enjoy a meal if he could not stop now and then to blow off steam . 
and you , Tom , out with your best brandy ; I 'll make a jorum that will open your eyes tightbefore you 've done with it . 
Even Tom Draw , who ever was much disposed to look upon strange potables as trash , and who had eyed the whole proceedings with ill-concealed suspicion and disdain , when he had quaffed off a pint-beaker full , which he did without once moving the vessel from his head , smacked his lips with a report which might have been heard half a mile off , and which resembled very nearly the crack of a first-rate huntsman 's whip . 
Tom chimed in ; `` leastwise I do n't know why I should say so neither , for I never saw no deviltry goin on yet , that did ` nt come as nat ` ral to McTavish , as lying to a minister , or '' -- `` Rum to Tom Draw ! '' 
`` Now then , '' said I , `` it 's Tom 's turn ; `` let us hear about the bull . '' 
answered Tom . 
-- Tom , mark ! 
And , as he finished , he burst out into his first horse laugh , in which I chorused him most heartily , having in truth been in convulsions , between the queerness of his lingo , and the absurdly grotesque attitudes into which he threw himself , in imitating the persons concerning whom his story ran . 
'till , in good truth , the glass circling the while with most portentous speed , I began to feel bees in my head , and till in truth no one , I believe , of the party , was entirely collected in his thoughts , except Tom Draw , whom it is as impossible for liquor to affect , as it would be for brandy to make a hogshead drunk , and who stalked off to bed with an air of solemn gravity that would have well become a Spanish grandee of the olden time , telling us , as he left the room , that we were all as drunk as h -- l , and that we should be stinkin in our beds till noon to-morrow . 
A prediction , by the way , which he took right good care to defeat in his own person ; for , in less than five hours after we retired , which was about the first of the small hours , he rushed into my room , and finding that the awful noises , which he made , had no effect in waking me , dragged me bodily out of bed , and clapping my wet sponge in my face , walked off , as he said , to fetch the bitters , which were to make me as fine as silk upon the instant . 
responded Tom , and mounted up , a work of no small toil for him , into the back seat of the wagon , where I soon took my seat beside him , with the two well-broke setters crouching at our feet , and the three guns strapped neatly to the side rails of the wagons . 
Tim touched his hat and jumped up to his side , and off we rattled at a merry trot , wheeling around the rival tavern which stood in close propinquity to Tom 's ; then turning short again to the left hand , along a broken stony road , with several high and long hills , and very awkward bridges in the valleys , to the northwestward of the village . 
Tom , do you hear what John says ? '' 
`` I hear , I hear , '' growled out old Tom , `` but the critter lies like h -- l . 
mark , Tom . '' 
Tom Draw and I , who had got out after Harry , were but in the act of ramming down our first barrels ; but Harry , who had loaded one , and was at that moment putting down the wad upon the second , dropped his ramrod with the most perfect sang-froid I ever witnessed , took a cap out of his right-hand pocket , applied it to the cone , and pitching up his gun , knocked down the bird as it wheeled to cross the road behind us , by the cleverest shot possible . 
`` That 's pretty well for no birds , anyhow , Tom , '' he exclaimed , dropping his butt to load . 
At the same time old Tom shouted on the right -- `` I have killed two , by George ! 
Taken completely by surprise , I blazed away in a hurry , and missed clean ; but not five yards did he go , before Tom cut him down . 
`` Mine , Tom , very fairly ; but can that be the same cock I knocked down , Archer ? '' 
`` All knack , Frank ; I marked both my own and yours , and one of Tom 's beside . 
he has got your dead bird ! 
he is standing on another , with the dead bird in his mouth ! 
Again two rose , and both were killed ; one by Tom , and one by Archer ; my gun hanging fire . 
`` I never saw any thing like this in my life , Tom ! 
responded Tom . 
The dogs throughout behaved superbly , and Tom was altogether frantic with the excitement of the sport . 
As it was not of course our plan to return again to Tom Draw 's , every thing was now carefully and neatly packed away ; the game , of which we had indeed a goodly stock , was produced from Tom 's ice-house , where , suspended from the rafters , it had been kept as sound and fresh as though it had been all killed only on the preceding day . 
`` There , Frank , '' cried Harry , who had superintended the storage of the whole with nice scrutiny , `` those chaps will keep there as sound as roaches , till we get to young Tom 's at Ramapo ; you can not think what work I had , trying in vain to save them , before I hit upon this method ; I tried hops , which I have known in England to keep birds in an extraordinary manner -- for , what you 'll scarce believe , I once ate at Ptarmigan , the day year after it was killed , which had been packed with hops , in perfect preservation , at Farnley , Mr. Fawke 's place in Yorkshire ! 
interposed Tom ; `` what under heaven they smells like -- a man that eats cock with their guts in , like you does , need ` nt stick now , I reckon , for a leetle mite of a stink ! '' 
Now , Jem , get out the hounds ; how do you take them , Tom ? '' 
`` Why , that d -- d Injun , Jem , he 'll take them in my lumber wagon -- and , I say , Jem , see that you do n't over-drive old roan -- away with you , and rouse up Garry , he means to go , I guess ? '' 
After a mighty round of punch , in which , as we were now departing , one half at least of the village joined , we all got under way ; Tom , buttoned up to the throat in a huge white lion skin wrap-rascal , looking for all the world like a polar bear erect on its hind legs ; and all of us muffled up pretty snugly , a proceeding which was rendered necessary by a brisk bracing northwest breeze . 
Thus we had passed the heavy lumber wagon , with Jem and Garry perched on a board laid across it , and the four couple of stanch hounds nestling in the straw which Tom had provided in abundance for their comfort , before the silence was broken by any sounds except the rattle of the wheels , the occasional interjectional whistle of Harry to his horses , or the flip of the well handled whip . 
Just , however , as we were shooting ahead of the lumber wain , an exclamation from Tom Draw , which should have been a sentence , had it not been very abruptly terminated in a long rattling eructation , arrested Archer 's progress . 
confound you , pass it this way first , for if Tom once gets hold of it , we may say good-bye to it altogether . 
as Tom poured down the third cup full , each being as big as an ordinary beer-glass . 
was the only reply that could be got out of him . 
`` Do tell now , '' replied Tom , `` did you , or any other feller , ever see me shoot the worser for a mite of liquor , and as for deer , that 's all a no sich thing : there arnt no deer a this side of Duck-seedar 's . 
hold up , Tom -- recollect yesterday ! 
`` Mayhap I be , '' he answered rather gruffly ; `` mayhap I be , but you wo n't git no deer to-day , I 'll stand drinks for the company ; and if we doos start one ' I 'll lay on my own musket agin your rifle . '' 
Scarce had Fat Tom obeyed his imperative solicitations , and scarce had Tim taken hold of the ribbands which Harry relinquished the moment he got the rifle into his hands , before a most extraordinary hubbub arose in the little skirt of coppice to our left ; the spaniels quested for a second 's space at the utmost , when a tremendons crash of the branches arose , and both the setters gave tongue furiously with a quick savage yell . 
Tom had scrambled out of the wagon on the first alarm , and stood eye , ear , and heart erect , by the off side of the horses , which were very restless , pawing , and plunging violently , and almost defying Timothy 's best skill to hold them ; while Harry , having cast off his box-coat , stood firm and upright on the foot board as a carved statue , with his rifle cocked and ready ; when , headed back upon us by the yell of Lyn and the loud clamor of his fresh foes , the first buck I had seen in America , and the largest I had seen any where , dashed at a single plunge into the road , clearing the green head of a fallen hemlock , apparently without an effort , his splendid antlers laid back on his neck , and his white flag lashing his fair round haunch as the fleet bitches Bonny Belle and Blossom yelled with their shrill fierce trebles close behind him . 
Tom , who from his position at the head of the off horse , commanded the first view of the splendld creature , pitched his gun to his shoulder hastily and fired ; the smoke drifted across my face , but through its vapory folds I could distinguish the dim figure of the noble hart still bounding unhurt onward ; but , before the first echo of the round ringing report of Tom 's shot-gun reached my ear , the sharp flat crack of Harry 's rifle followed it , and at the self-same instant the buck sprang six feet into the air , and pitched head foremost on the ground ; it was but for a moment , however , for with the speed of light he struggled to his feet , and though sore wounded , was yet toiling onward when the two English foxhounds dashed at his throat and pulled him down again . 
`` Run in , Tom , run in ! 
quick , '' shouted Harry , `` he 's not clean killed , and may gore the dogs sadly ! '' 
`` I 've got no knife , '' responded Tom , but dauntlessly he dashed in , all the same , to the rescue of the bitches -- which I believe he loved almost as well as his own children -- and though , encumbered by his ponderous white top-coat , not to say by his two hundred and fifty weight of solid flesh , seized the fierce animal by the brow-antlers , and bore him to the ground , before Harry , who had leaped out of the wagon , with his first words , could reach him . 
and why the deuce did he lay here till we almost passed him ! '' 
`` I did , '' exclaimed Tom , `` I did by -- ! '' 
The laugh was general now against fat Tom ; especially as the small wound made by the heavy ball of Harry 's rifle was plainly visible , about a hand 's breadth behind the heart , on the side toward which he had aimed ; while the lead had passed directly through , in an oblique direction forward , breaking the left shoulder blade , and lodging just beneath the skin , whence a touch of the knife dislodged it . 
You sent the Teachmans word that we were coming , Tom ? '' 
Tim was enjoined to see to the provisions , and to provide as good a dinner as his best gastronomic skill and the contents of our portable larder might afford , and I was put under the charge of Tom , who seemed , for about an hour , disposed to do nothing but to lie dozing , with a cigar in his mouth , stretched upon the broad of his back , on a bank facing the early sunshine just without the door ; while our hosts were collecting bait , preparing fishing tackle , and cleaning or repairing their huge clumsy muskets . 
At length , when the drivers had been gone already for considerably more than an hour , he got up and shook himself . 
`` Now , then , boys , '' he exclaimed , `` we 'll be a movin . 
You may fish , though , if you will , Forester , '' he added , turning to me , `` and I do reckon the big yellow pearch willbite the darndest , this cold morning , arter the sun gits fairly up -- but soon as ever you hear the hounds holler , or one of them chaps shoot , then look you out right stret away for business ! 
The Southrons have borne away over the shoulder of the hill , still running hot and hard in Jolly Tom 's direction . 
Again the fleet hounds rally in his rear , and chide till earth and air are vocal and harmonious . 
We took both bucks and all hands on board , pulled stoutly homeward , and found Tom lamenting . 
Two deer , a buck of the first head , and a doe , had taken water close beside him -- he had missed his first shot , and in toiling over-hard to recover lost ground , had broken his oar , and been compelled inactively to witness their escape . 
Three fat bucks made the total of the day 's sport -- not one of which had fallen to Tom 's boasted musket . 
As I looked up with an air , I presume , somewhat bewildered , I heard the loud and bellowing laugh of Tom , and saw the whole of our stout company gliding up in two boats , the skiff and the canoe , toward the landing place , perhaps a hundred yards from the spot where I stood . 
As for letting you lie in bed , you must talk to Tom about it ; I bid him call you , and the fat rascal never did so , and never said a word about you , till we were ready for a start , and then no master Frank was to the fore . '' 
`` Well , Tom , '' cried I , `` what have you got to say to this ? '' 
-- and at the first word of his welcome voice , Tom made , as he would have himself defined it , stret tracks for the table . 
Breakfast despatched -- for which , to say the truth , Harry gave us but little time -- we mustered our array and started ; Harry and Tom and I making one party , with the spaniels -- Garry , the Teachmans , and Timothy , with the setters , which would hunt very willingly for him in Archer 's absence , forming a second . 
Tom , here , will keep along the bottoms , working his way as best he can ; while we make good the uplands ! 
cried Tom -- `` and I 've got a rousin big black bottle , too -- but not a drop of the old cider sperrits do you git this day , boys ; not if your thirsty throats were cracking for it ! '' 
`` Here goes , '' cried Harry , springing to his feet at once , and grasping his good gun ; `` here goes -- they have got into the long hollow , Tom , and by the time we 've crossed the ridge , and got upon our ground , they 'll be abreast of us . '' 
Tom bellowed , `` you are the darndest critter , when you do git goin -- now hold on , do -- I wants some rum , and Forester here looks a kind of white about the gills , his whatdye-call , cheeroot , has made him sick , I reckon ! '' 
Of course , with such an exhortation in our ears as this , it was impossible to do otherwise than wet our whistles with one drop of the old Ferintosh ; and then , Tom having once again recovered his good humor , away we went , and `` clombe the high hill , '' though we `` swam not the deep river , '' as merrily as ever sportsmen did , from the days of Arbalast and Longbow , down to these times of Westley Richards ' caps and Eley 's wire cartridges . 
It was indeed a hard and heavy tug ; and I had pretty tough work , what between the exertion of the ascent and the incessant fits of laughter , into which I was thrown by the grotesquely agile movements of fat Tom ; who , grunting , panting , sputtering , and launching forth from time to time the strangest and most blasphemously horrid oaths , contrived to make way to the summit faster than either of us -- crashing through the dense underwood of juniper and sumach , uprooting the oak saplings as he swung from this to that , and spurning down huge stones upon us , as we followed at a cautious distance . 
When we at last crowned the ridge , we found him , just as Harry had predicted , stretched in a half-recumbent attitude , leaning against a huge gray stone , with his fur cap and double-barrel lying upon the withered leaves beside him , puffing , as Archer told him , to his mighty indignation , like a great grampus in shoal water . 
`` Here , Tom , '' said Harry , `` keep you along this run -- you 'll have a woodcock every here and there , and look sharp when you hear them fire over the ridge , for they ca n't shoot to speak of , and the partridge will cross -- you know . 
Go very slow , Tom -- now , hurrah ! '' 
Scarce had I reached the top , before , as I looked down into the glen below me , a puff of white smoke , instantly succeeded by a second , and the loud full reports of both his barrels from among the green-leafed alders , showed me that Tom had sprung game . 
-- broken at times by the impatient oaths of Tom Draw , in the gulley , who had , it seems , knocked down two woodcock , neither of which he could bag , owing to the depth and instability of the wet bog ! 
But still the scourge continued to resound , and still the raving of the spaniel excited Tom 's hot ire . 
exclaimed he once again . 
Tom holloaed ; `` not one , either of you ! '' 
-- two pounds , good weight , I warrant him , '' he added , weighing him as he spoke . 
he continued . 
But come , we must go down to Tom ; hark how the old hound keeps bawling ! '' 
The spaniels quickly retrieved his dead birds , and flushed some fifteen more , of which we gave a clean account -- Harry making up for lost time by killing six cock , right and left , almost before they topped the bushes -- seven more fell to me , but single birds all of them -- and but one brace to Tom , who now began to wax indignant ; for Archer , as I saw , for fun 's sake , was making it a point to cut down every bird that rose to him , before he could get up his gun ; and then laughed at him for being fat and slow . 
But the laugh was on Tom 's side before long -- for while we were yet in the valley , the report of a gun came faintly down the wind from beyond the hill , and as we all looked out attentively , a partridge skimmed the brow , flying before the wind at a tremendous pace , and skated across the valley without stooping from his altitude . 
I stood the first , and fired , a yard at least ahead of him -- on he went , unharmed and undaunted ; bang went my second barrel -- still on he went , the faster , as it seemed , for the weak insult . 
He bagged , amid Tom 's mighty exultation , forward again we went and in a short half hour got into the remainder of the pack which we had flushed before , in some low tangled thorn cover , among which they lay well , and we made havoc of them . 
A fine cock bird was flushed close at Tom 's feet , and went off to the left , Harry and I both standing to the right ; he blazed away , and at the shot the bird sprung up six or eight feet into the air , with a sharp staggering flutter . 
cried I ; well done again , fat Tom . '' 
But to my great surprise the partridge gathered wing , and flew on , feebly at first , and dizzily , but gaining strength more and more as he went on the farther . 
At the last , after a long flight , he treed in a tall leafless pine . 
`` Run after him , Frank , '' Archer called to me , `` you are the lightest ; and we 'll beat up the swale till you return . 
Tom 's first shot had cut off the whole crown of the head , with half the brain and the right eye ; and after that the bird had power to fly five or six hundred yards , and then to cling upon its perch for at least ten minutes . 
Late was it when we reached the Teachmans ' hut -- and long and deep was the carouse that followed ; and when the moon had sunk and we were turning in , Tom Draw swore with a mighty oath of deepest emphasis -- that since we had passed a week with him , he 'd take a seat down in the wagon , and see the Beacon Races . 
When we left Tom Draw 's , it had been , as we thought , finally decided that we were for this bout to visit that fair village no more , but when that worthy announced his own determination to accompany us on our homeward route , and when we had taken into consideration the fact , that , independent of Tom 's two hundred and fifty weight of solid flesh , we had two noble bucks , beside quail , partridge , woodcock , and rabbit , almost innumerable to transport , in addition to our two selves and Timothy , with the four dogs , and lots of luggage -- when we , I say , considered all this , it became apparent that another vehicle must be provided for our return . 
So during the last jorum , it had been put to the vote and unanimously carried that we should start for Tom 's , by a retrograde movement , at four o'clock in the morning , breakfast with him , and rig up some drag or other wherein Timothy might get the two deer and the dogs , as best he might , into the city . 
`` As for us , '' said Harry , `` we will go down the other road , Tom , over the back-bone of the mountain , dine with old Colonel Beams , stop at Paterson , and take a taste at the Holy Father 's potheen -- you may look at the Falls if you like it , Frank , while we 're looking at the Innishowen -- and so get home to supper . 
I 'll give you both beds for one night -- but not an hour longer -- my little cellar would be broken , past all doubt , if old Tom were to get twonights out of it ! '' 
and then turn in , or you 'll be late in the morning ; and , by George , we must be away by four o'clock at latest , for we have all of sixty miles to makes to-morrow , and Tom 's fat carcase will try the springs most consumedly , down hill . '' 
`` Get up , '' he whispered , `` get up , Frank , very quietly ; slip on your great-coat and your slippers -- we have a chance to serve Tom out -- he 's not awake for once ! 
we peeped in , aided by the glare of the streaming tallow-candle , and there , sure enough , with all the clothes kicked off him , and his immense rotundity protected only from the cold by an exceeding scanty shirt of most ancient cotton , lay Tom , flat on his back , like a stranded porpoise , with his mouth wide open , through which he was puffing and breathing like a broken-winded cab-horse , while through his expanded nostrils he was snoring loudly enough to have awaked the seven sleepers . 
With the most wondrous noise that ears of mine have ever witnessed -- a mixture of sob , snort , and groan , concluding in the longest and most portentous howl that mouth of man ever uttered -- Tom started out of bed ; but , at the very instant I discharged my bucket , I put my foot upon the light , flung down the empty pail , and bolted . 
Not so Tom -- for going at the very top of his pace , swearing like forty troopers all the time , he caught it with both legs just below the knees , and went down with a squelch that shook the whole hut to the rooftree , while at the self-same instant Harry once again soused him with the contents of the second pail , and made his escape unobserved by the window of Tom 's own chamber . 
Meanwhile I had reached my room , and flinging off my jacket , came running out with nothing but my shirt and a lighted candle , to Tom 's assistance , in which the next moment I was joined by Harry , who rushed in from out of doors with the stable lanthorn . 
grunted poor Tom , in most piteous accents -- `` them d -- d etarnal Teachmans -- they 've murdered me right out ! 
Tom would not have it . 
And direful , in good truth , I do believe , were the jokes practical , and to him no jokes at all , which poor Jem had to undergo , in expiation of his fancied share in this our misdemeanor . 
Harry and I , and Tom and Timothy , mounted the old green drag ; and , with our cheroots lighted -- the only lights , by the way , that were visible at all -- off we went at a rattling trot , the horses in prime condition , full of fire , biting and snapping at each other , and making their bits clash and jingle every moment . 
Another half hour brought us down at a rattling pace to the village , and once again we pulled up at Tom 's well-known dwelling , just as the day was breaking . 
`` Do n't bother yourself about no wagon , '' interposed Tom , `` but come you in and liquor ; else we shall have you gruntin half the day ; and if old roan and my long pig-box wont carry down the deer , why I 'll stand treat . '' 
The business of re-packing had been scarce accomplished , and Harry and myself had just retired to change our shooting-jackets and coarse fustians for habiliments more suitable for the day and our destination -- New York , to-wit , and Sunday -- when forth came Tom , bedizened from top to toe in his most new and knowing rig , and looking now , to do him justice , a most respectable and portly yeoman . 
`` Now quit , you , callin of me Guts , '' responded Tom , more testily than I had ever heard him speak to Harry , whose every whim and frolic he seemed religiously to venerate and humor ; `` a fellow doos n't want to have it ` Guts ' here , and ` Guts ' there , over half a county . 
shouted Harry and I almost simultaneously , delighted at Tom 's evident annoyance . 
`` Who wrote it Tom ? '' 
`` That 's what I 'd jist give fifty dollars to know now , '' replied mine host , clinching his mighty paw . 
`` Lick him , by George ! 
At his left hand sat I , while Tom , in honor of his superior bulk and weight , occupied with his magnificent and portly person the whole of the back seat , keeping his countenance as sanctified as possible , and nodding , with some quaint and characteristic observation , to each one of the scattered groups of country-people , which we encountered every quarter of a mile for the first hour of our route , wending their way toward the village church -- but , when we reached the forest-mantled road which clombe the mountain , making the arched woods resound to many a jovial catch , or merry hunting chorus . 
Mounted sublime on an arm-chair lashed to the fore-part of the pig-box , sat Timothy in state -- his legs well muffled in a noble scarlet-fringed buffalo skin , and his body encased in his livery top-coat -- the setters and the spaniels crouching most meekly at his feet , and the two noble bucks -- the fellow on whose steaks we had already made an inroad , having been left as fat Tom 's portion -- securely corded down upon a pile of straw , with their sublime and antlered crests drooping all spiritless and humble over the back-board , toward the frozen soil which crashed and rattled under the ponderous hoofs of the magnificent roan horse -- Tom 's special favorite -- which , though full seventeen hands high , and heavy in proportion , yet showing a good strain of blood , trotted away with his huge load at full ten miles an hour . 
A hearty welcome , and a no less hearty meal having been here encountered and despatched , we rattled off again , through laden orchards and rich meadows ; passed the confluence of the three bright rivers which issue from their three mountain gorges , to form by their junction the fairest of New Jersey 's rivers , the broad Passaic ; reached the small village noted for rum-drinking and quarter racing -- hight Pompton -- thence by the Preakness mountain , and Mose Canouze 's tavern -- whereat , in honor of Tom 's friend , a worthy of the self-same kidney with himself , we paused awhile -- to Paterson , the filthiest town , situate on one of the loveliest rivers in the world , and famous only for the possession , in the person of its Catholic priest , of the finest scholar and best fellow in America , whom we unluckily found not at home , and therefore tasted not , according to friend Harry 's promise , the splendid Innishowen which graces at all times his hospitable board . 
Eight o'clock brought us to Hoboken , where , by good luck , the ferry boat lay ready -- and nine o'clock had not struck when we three sat down once again about a neat small supper-table , before a bright coal fire , in Archer 's snuggery -- Tom glorying in the prospect of the races on the morrow , and I regretting that I had brought to its conclusion MY FIRST WEEK IN THE WOODLANDS . 
-- the first day I shot was on 4th of July , 1832 , the place Seer 's swamp , the open end of it ; the witness old Tom Draw -- and there I missed , in what we nowcall open covert , fourteen birds running ; and left the place in despair -- I could not , though I missed at home by shooting too quick -- I could not , for the life of me , shoot quick enough . 
Did not he arrive in New York last first of July , from a yachting tour at four o'clock in the afternoon ; receive my note saying that I was off to Tom 's that morning ; and start by the Highlander at five that evening ? 
Harness the nags and pack the wagon , and put them to , at five -- we shall be at home by then , for we intend to be at Tom 's night . 
And now I say , Harry , you surely do not intend to trundle us off to Tom Draw 's to-night without a drink at starting ? 
The last time I was at old Tom 's he told me that but ten days or a fortnight previously a poor Irish woman , who lived in his village , started to pay a visit to her mother by the self same road we shall pass to-night ; and was found the next morning with her person brutally abused , kneeling against a fence stone dead , strangled with her own cambric handkerchief . 
He says , too , that not a week passes but some of them are found dead in the meadows , or in the ditches , killed in some lawless fray ; and no one ever dreams of taking any notice , or making any inquiry about the matter ! '' 
`` Never myself beyond the fifteenth of November ; but Tom Draw assures me , and his asseveration was accidently corroborated by a man who walked along with him , that he killed thirty birds last year in Hell-Hole , which both of you fellows know , on the thirteenth of December . 
But the day was warm , bright , and genial , and , as he says , it came into his head to see ` if cock was was all gone , ' and he went to what he knew to be the latest ground , and found the very heaviest and finest birds he ever saw ! '' 
that of course , '' said A -- , `` if he found any ! 
`` Come , Harry , '' exclaimed Forester , after a little pause , `` spin us a shooting yarn , to kill the time , till we get to fat Tom 's . '' 
And one of these tales will I now venture to record , though it will sound but weak and feeble from my lips , if compared to the rich , racy , quaint and humorous thing it was , when flowing from the nature-gifted tongue of our old friend Tom Draw . '' 
`` It was the middle of the winter 1832 -- which was , as you will recollect , of most unusual severity -- that I had gone up to Tom Draw 's , with a view merely to quail shooting , though I had taken up , as usual , my rifle , hoping perhaps to get a chance shot at a deer . 
`` More than a hundred sheep had been destroyed during the winter , and several calves beside ; and what had stirred especially the bile of the good yeomen , was that , with more than customary boldness , they had the previous night made a descent into the precincts of the village , and carried off a fat wether of Tom Draw 's . 
`` A slight fall of snow had taken place the morning I arrived , and , this suggesting to Tom 's mind a possibility of hunting up the felons , a party had gone out and tracked them to a small swamp on the Bellevale Mountain , wherein they had undoubtedly made their head-quarters . 
Two sides , my own eyes told me , were surrounded , and the continuous line in which the shouts ran all along the farther end would have assured me , if assurance had been needful , for Tom himself commanded in that quarter , that all was perfectly secure on that side . 
Just as this passed , a dozen shots were fired , in a quick running volley , from the thicket , just where an old cart-way divides it ; followed , after a moment 's pause , by one full , round report , which I knew instantly to be the voice of old Tom 's musket ; nor did I err , for , while its echoes were yet vocal in the leafless forest , the owner 's jovial shout was heard -- ``` Wiped all your eyes , boys ! 
Not long , however , did fat Tom permit us to enjoy our ease . 
``` Come , boys , ' he shouted , ` no lazin ' here ; no gormandizin ' -- the worst part of our work 's afore us ; the old lame devil is afoot , and five miles off by now . 
He 's tuk right off toward Duckcedars ' -- for so Tom ever calls Truxedo Pond -- a lovely crescent-shaped lakelet deep in the bosom of the Greenwoods -- ` so off with you , Jem , down by the road , as hard as you can strick with ten of your boys in sleighs , and half the hounds ; and if you find his tracks acrost the road , do n't wait for us , but strick right arter him . 
This was on Monday morning -- Tom and I , and some thirteen others , with eight couple of the best dogs , stuck to his slot on foot . 
It was two hours at least , so long had he been gone , before a single hound spoke to it , and I had begun well nigh to despair ; but Tom 's immense sagacity , which seemed almost to know instinctively the course of the wily savage , enabling us to cut off the angles of his course , at last brought us up somewhat nearer to him . 
His slot , however , showed that they were right , and lustily we cheered them on ! 
Tom , marvelling the while that we heard not the cry of Jem 's relay . 
``` For I 'll be darned , ' he said , ` if he has n't crossed the road long enough since ; and that dumb nigger , Jem , 's not had the sense to stick to him ! ' 
But fat Tom , who had been detached from the party to bring up provisions from the village , was driving in his sleigh steadily along the road , when the sharp chorus of the hounds aroused him . 
Tom had but his double-barrel , one loaded with buck shot , the other merely prepared for partridge -- he blazed away , however , but in vain ! 
Out came ten couple on his track , hard after him ; and old Tom , cursing his bad luck , stood to survey the chase across the open . 
Full at this opening the wolf dashed , as fresh , Tom said , as though he had not run a yard ; but as he struggled through it , his efforts shook the top rails from the yokes , and the huge piece of timber falling across his loins , pinned him completely ! 
At a mile off I heard his howl myself , and the confused and savage hubbub , as the hounds front and rear , assailed him . 
`` Hampered although he was , he battled it out fiercely -- aye , heroically -- as six of our best hounds maimed for life , and one slain outright , testified . 
Tom , puffing and panting like a grampus in shoal water , covered -- garments and face and hands -- with lupine gore , had finished his huge enemy , after he had destroyed his gun , with what he called a stick , but what you and I , Frank , should term a fair-sized tree ; and with his foot upon the brindled monster 's neck , was quaffing copious rapture from the neck of a quart bottle -- once full , but nowwell nigh exhausted -- of his appropriate and cherished beverage . 
`` There , I have finished my yarn , and in good time , '' cried Harry , `` for here we are at the bridge , and in five minutes more we shall be at old Tom 's door . '' 
fat Tom ! 
Blithe , loud and hearty was the welcome of fat Tom , when by the clear view halloa with which Harry drove up to the door at a spanking trot , the horses stopping willingly at the high well known stoop , he learned who were these his nocturnal visiters . 
`` You 'll be here best , boys , '' said Tom , `` for a piece -- the parlor fire 's not been lit yet this fall , and it is quite cold nights now -- but Brower 'll kindle it up agin supper , for you 'll be wantin ' to eat , all of you , I reckon , you 're sich d -- d everlastin ' gormandizers . '' 
who wants you to believe anything of the kind -- we had one drink at Tom 's , your cousin 's , when we started , but deuce the drop since . '' 
`` Well , Tom , '' said Archer , `` I do not think it would be a bad move to take a drop of something , and a cracker ; for I suppose we shall not get supper much short of two hours ; and I 'm so deuced hungry , that if I do n't get something just to take off the edge , I shall not be able to eat when it does come ! '' 
`` Not we , Tom ! 
Frank and I drove up from York last night , and slept at young Tom 's , down the valley -- we were out just as soon as it was light , and got the quail , all except fifteen or sixteen , the ruffed grouse and four rabbits , before twelve o'clock . 
`` Here comes that Indian , Jem , '' cried Tom , and as he spoke the door flew open , and in rushed old Whino , the tall black and tan fox-hound , and Bonnybelle , and Blossom , and another large blue mottled bitch , of the Southern breed . 
a consummation brought about by a smart application of Harry 's double-thonged four-horse whip , wielded with all the power of Tom 's right arm , and accompanied by a `` Git out , now , d -- n you -- the whole grist ! 
By-the-bye , Tom , where 's Dash -- you 'd better look out , or the Commodore 's dog , Grouse , will eat him before morning -- mine will not quarrel with him , but Grouse will to a certainty . '' 
I should like to see you shoot Grouse , Tom , for all the store you set by me , you 'd get the worst of that game . 
`` Yes , sir , '' replied the knight of the cut-throat ; `` I 've got some news to tell you , too , Tom , if you 'll wait a bit . '' 
`` D -- n you , and your news too , '' responded Tom , `` you 're sich a thunderin ' liar , there 's no knowin ' when you do speak truth . 
Few words were spoken for some time , unless it were a challenge to champagne , the corks of which popped frequently and furious ; or a request for another snipe , or another spoonfull of the sauce ; while all devoted themselves to the work in hand with a sincere and business-like earnestness of demeanor , that proved either the excellence of Tom Draw 's cookery , or the efficacy of the Spartan sauce which the sportsmen had brought to assist them at their meal . 
The last rich drops of the fourth flask were trickling into Tom 's wide-lipped rummer , when Harry said , `` Come , we have done , I think , for one night ; let 's have the eatables removed , and we will have a pipe , and hear what Jem has got to say ; and you have told us nothing about birds , either , you old elephant ; what do you mean by it ? 
The shrub is here , and the Scotch whiskey ; will you have another bottle of champagne , Tom ? 
`` Well , Mr. Aircher , it be n't no use to tell you o n't , with Tom , there , puttin ' a body out , and swearin ' it 's a lie , and dammin ' a chap up and down . 
`` Incourse not , '' answered Forester ; and at the same instant Tom struck in likewise -- `` It 's a lie , afore you tell it ; it 's a lie , d -- n you , and you knows it . 
Tom was about to answer , when Harry , who had been eagerly engaged in mixing a huge tumbler-full of strong cold shrub punch , thrust it under his nose , and he , unable to resist the soft seductive odor , seized it incontinently , and neither spoke nor breathed again until the bottom of the rummer was brought parallel to the ceiling ; then , with a deep heart-felt sigh , he set it down ; uttered a most appalling eructation ; and then , with a calm placid smile , exclaimed , `` Tell on , Jem . '' 
`` It 's true , by thunder , '' answered Jem ; `` I wish I may n't eat nor drink nother , if there 's one bit of lie in it ; d -- n the bit , Tom ! 
`` Why , he lies , I guess , now , in that little thickest swamp of all , jist in the eend of the swale atween Round Top and Rocky Hill , right in the pines and laurels ; leastways I druv him down there with the dogs , and I swon that he never crossed into the open meadow ; and I went round , and made a circle like clean round about him , and d -- n the dog trailed on him no how ; and bein ' as he 's hard hot , I guess he 'll stay there since he harbored . '' 
`` That we can do easily enough , '' said Archer , `` what do you say , Tom ? 
`` Why , '' answered old Draw instantly , `` if so be only we could be sartain that the d -- d critter war n't a lyin ' , there could n't be no doubt about it ; for if the buck did lay up there this night , why he 'll be there to-morrow ; and if so be he 's there , why we can get him sure ! '' 
`` And you found nothing , '' interrupted Tom , `` but wood '' -- `` Oh shut up , do Tom , '' broke in Forester , `` and let us hear about this buck . 
If we agree to give you a five dollar bill , Jem , in case we do find him where you say , what will you be willing to forfeit if we do not ? '' 
`` It certainly is very likely that we should be willing to get hanged for the sake of shooting such a mangy hound as you , Jem , '' answered Forester , `` when one could shoot a good clean dog -- Tom 's Dash , for example -- for nothing ! '' 
Tom replied , `` I 'd like to ketch you at it , my dear boy -- I 'd wax the little hide off of you . 
Tom 's bore is twelve , and I 've brought some to fit his old double , and some , too , for my own gun , though it is almost too small ! '' 
`` And how far in the devil 's name would you have it execute , as you calls it , '' asked old Tom . 
`` H -- ll , '' replied Draw , `` do n't tell me no sich thunderin ' nonsense ; I 'll stand all day and be shot at , like a Christmas turkey , at sixty rods , for sixpence a shot , any how . '' 
`` I 'll bet you all the liquor we can drink while we are here , Tom , '' answered Harry , `` that I hit a four foot target at three hundred yards to-morrow ! '' 
inquired Tom , with an attempt at a sneer . 
cried Tom -- `` at the first shot , you know ; I gives no second chances . '' 
`` He 's for me , any how , '' -- shouted Tom -- `` Darn it all , Harry , you knows you would n't own a pinter -- no not if it was gin you ! '' 
Itwas still pitch dark , although the skies were quite clear and cloudless , when Harry , Frank , and the Commodore re-assembled on the following morning in Tom 's best parlor , preparatory to the stag hunt which , as determined on the previous night , was to be their first sporting move in the valley . 
Tom Draw had not yet made his appearance , but the sound of his ponderous tramp , mixed with strange oaths and loud vociferations , showed that he was on foot , and ready for the field . 
By this time , the Commodore had donned Harry 's winter jacket , and Frank , grumbling and paradoxizing all the while , had loaded his rifle , and buttoned up his pea-jacket , when in stalked Tom , swathed up to his chin in a stout dreadnought coat . 
-- I should like to know which side the laziness has been on this morning , Mister Draw . '' 
`` You be hanged , you old rascal '' -- replied Forester , a little bothered by the huge shouts of laughter which followed this most strictly accurate account of his accustomed method of proceeding ; an account which , by the way , was fully justified not twenty minutes afterward , by his galloping back , neck or nothing , to get his pocket handkerchief , which he had left `` in course , '' as Tom said , in his dressing-gown beside the fire . 
As they reached the first of these , Tom motioned Forester to stop . 
Tom and the Commodore , quickening their pace as they got out of ear-shot , retraced their steps quite back to the turnpike road , along which Harry saw them gallop furiously , in a few minutes , and turn up , half a mile off , toward the further gulley -- he saw no more , however ; though he felt certain that the Commodore was , scarce ten minutes after he lost sight of them , standing within twelve paces of him , at the further angle of the swamp -- Tom having warily determined that the two single guns should take post together , while the two doubles should be placed where the wild quarry could get off encountering but a single sportsman . 
`` Now , then , it is old Tom 's chance , or ours , '' he thought , `` for he will not try Forester again , I warrant him , and we are all down wind of him -- so he ca n't judge of our whereabouts . '' 
At the same moment A -- came trotting out from his post , gun in hand ; while at a thundering gallop , blaspheming awfully as he came on , and rating them for `` know-nothins , and blunderin ' etarnal spoil-sports , '' Tom rounded the farther hill , and spurred across the level . 
exclaimed Draw , perfectly frantic with passion and excitement -- `` By thunder ! 
All pluck to the back-bone , the Commodore craned not nor hesitated , but dashed the colt , for the first time in his life , at the high barrier -- he tried to stop , but could not , so powerfully did his rider cram him -- leaped short , and tumbled head over heels , carrying half the wall away with him , and leaving a gap as if a wagon had passed through it -- to Tom 's astonishment and agony -- for he supposed the colt destroyed forever . 
Scarcely , however , had A -- gained his feet , before a sight met his eyes , which made him leave the colt , and run as fast as his legs could carry him toward the scene of action . 
The stag , seeing his human enemy so near , had strained every nerve to escape , and Harry , desperately rash and daring , seeing he could not turn or head him , actually spurred upon him counter to broadside , in hope to ride him down ; foiled once again , in this -- his last hope , as it seemed -- he drew his longest knife , and as -- a quarter of a second too late only -- he crossed behind the buck , he swung himself half out of his saddle , and striking a full blow , succeeded in hamstringing him ; while the gray , missing the support of the master-hand , stumbled and fell upon his head . 
What the deuce are you pottering at that colt about , Tom ? 
He 's not hurt a pin 's value , on the contrary -- '' `` Better for ` t , I suppose , you 'll be a tellin ' me torights ; better for that all-fired etarnal tumble , aint he ? '' 
`` Incourse he is , '' replied Frank , who had recovered his wonted equanimity , and who , having been most unmercifully rallied by the whole party for leaving his bullets at home , was glad of an opportunity to carry the war into the enemy 's country , `` incourse he is a great deal better -- if a thing can be said to be better which , under all circumstances , is so infernally bad , as that brute . 
I should think he wasbetter for it . 
Why , by the time he 's had half a dozen more such purls , he 'll leap a six foot fence without shaking a loose rail . 
In fact , I 'll bet a dollar I carry him back over that same wall without touching a stone . '' 
`` Isay quit foolin ' , too , '' cried Harry , `` both of you quit it ; you d -- d old fool , Tom , do you really suppose he is mad enough to ride that brute of yours again at the wall ? '' 
-- Yes , I swon he be , '' responded Tom ; `` both of you be as mad as the hull Asylum down to York . 
But as he spoke he replaced his gun under his arm , and walked off to his horse , which he mounted , without farther words , his example being followed by the whole party , who set off on the spur , and reached the village in less than half an hour . 
`` Oh , you wont ketch him sayin ' nauthen , leastwise not this half hour -- but the way he 'll keep a feedin ' wont be slow , I tell you -- that 's the way to judge how Forester likes his grub -- jest seehow he takes hold on ` t. '' `` Are there many wood-duck about this season , Tom ? '' 
`` A sweetshot , Tom '' -- responded Forester -- `` a sweet pretty shot , if there had only been one word of truth in it , which there is not -- do n't answer me , you old thief -- shut up instantly , and get your traps ; for we ` vedone feeding , and you ` vedone lying , for the present at least I hope so -- and now we 'll out , and see whether you 've poached up all the game in the country . '' 
`` Well , it be gettin late for sartain , '' answered Tom , `` and that 'll save your little wax skin for the time ; but see , jest see , boy , if I doos n't sarve you out , now , afore sundown ! '' 
`` Which way shall we beat , Tom '' -- asked Harry , as he changed his riding boots for heavy shooting shoes and leggins -- `` which course to-day ? '' 
`` Excellently well , Tom , '' replied Harry , `` I could not have cut a better day 's work out myself , if I had tried . 
I do n't care about it ; will Minthorne let us put up the beasts in his barn , Tom ? '' 
`` We must part company to beat these little woods , must we not , Tom ? '' 
`` I guess so -- I 'll go on with A -- ; his Grouse and my Dash will work well enough , and you and Frank keep down the valley hereaways ; we ` llbeat that little swamp-hole , and then the open woods to the brook side , and so along the meadows to the big bottom ; youkeep the hill-side coverts , and look the little pond-holes well on Minthorne 's Ridge , you 'll find a cock or two there anyhow ; and beat the bushes by the wall ; I guess you 'll have a bevy jumpin ' up ; and try , boys , do , to git 'em down the hill into the boggy bottom , for we canuse them , I tell you ! '' 
`` And mind , if you hear Tom shoot , or cry ` mark , ' jump over into the open field , and be all eyes , for that 's their line of country into the swamp , where we would have them . 
and , as he spoke , they entered a wide rushy pasture , across which , at some two or three hundred yards , A -- and fat Tom were seen advancing toward them . 
`` Devil a know know I , '' responded he ; `` but step up to the red dog , Frank -- I 'll go to the other -- they 've got game , and no mistake ! '' 
`` Did you ever see snipe herebefore , Tom ? '' 
`` No hurry , Tom ! 
Tom -- steady ! 
`` That 's right , '' said A -- ; `` take up Grouse and Tom 's dog , for they wo n't hunt with yours -- and yours are the steadiest , and fetch -- that 's it , Tim , couple them , and carry them away . 
Tom and I each killed a double shot out of that bevy ! '' 
It was not a moment before the first bird rose , but it was quite two hours , and all the dinner horns had long blown for noon , before the last was bagged -- the four guns having scored , in that one meadow , forty-nine English snipe -- fifteen for Harry Archer -- thirteen for Tom Draw -- twelve for the Commodore , and only nine for Forester , who never killed snipe quite so well as he did cock or quail . 
`` And now , boys , '' exclaimed Tom , as he flung his huge carcase on the ground , with a thud that shook it many a rood around -- `` there 's a cold roast fowl , and some nice salt pork and crackers , in that ` ar game bag -- and I 'm h -- ll now , I tell you , for a drink ! '' 
`` Which will you take to drink , Tom ? '' 
now I 've drinked , '' said Tom , after a vast potation , and a sonorous eructation ; `` now I 've drinked good -- we 'll have a bite and rest awhile , and smoke a pipe ; and then we 'll use them quail , and we 'll have time to pick up twenty cock in Hell-hole afterwards , and that wont be a slow day 's work , I reckon . '' 
put in ancient Tom ; `` I 'd be right glad to know , and gladder yit to have you up here , Archer . '' 
`` I would indeed , Tom , '' answered Harry ; `` I 'm not joking at all ; but there are never any small places to be bought hereabout ; and , as for large ones , your land is so confounded good , that a fellow must be a nabob to think of buying . '' 
`` What can it be bought for , Tom ? '' 
`` Are you sure it can be bought , Tom ? '' 
Tom Draw and English ! '' 
But that need not take you away , boys ; you can stay and finish out the week here , and go home in the Ianthe ; Tom will send you down to Nyack . '' 
`` Sartain , '' responded Tom ; `` but now I 'm most darned glad , I told you that , Archer . 
said Tom . 
In a moment they both stood steady ; and , almost at the same instant , Tom Draw 's Dash , and A -- 's Grouse came to the point , all on different birds , in a bit of very open ground , covered with wintergreen about knee deep , and interspersed with only a few scattered bushes . 
And , when we got up from luncheon , I put on the caps just as if all was right -- but all is right now , '' he added , for he had repaired his fault , and loaded , before A -- or fat Tom had done staring , each in the other 's face , in blank astonishment . 
`` He haint got no bird , '' said Tom , sulkily . 
`` I telled you there war n't no quails there ; '' growled Tom . 
`` What do you say to that , Tom ? '' 
But there was no laugh in Tom ; he only uttered a savage growl , and an awful imprecation ; and Harry 's quick glance warned A -- not to plague the old Trojan further . 
During all this time , amidst all the kicking of tussocks , threshing of bog-grass , and banging of guns , and , worst of all , bouncing up of fresh birds , from the instant when they dropped at the first shot , neither one of Harry 's dogs , nor Tom 's little Dash , had budged from their down charge . 
`` Frank , you go with Tom ; and you come with me , Commodore . 
`` That is the worst of old Tom , when he gets jealous , he 's the very devil . 
Up got a single bird , the old cock , and flew directly away from Tom , across Frank 's face ; but not for that did the old chap pause . 
The whole of Tom 's concentrated charge had struck the bird endwise , as it flew from him ; and , except the extreme tips of his wings , and one foot , no part of him could be found . 
As he spoke , a second bird got up , and crossed Forester in the same manner ; Draw doing precisely as he had done before ; but , this time , missing the quail clear , which Forester turned over . 
Tom -- Ma-ark Timothy ! '' 
Well , Tom , what do you think of that ? 
`` I guess the darned little critter 's got three barrels to his gun somehow ; leastwise it seems to me , I swon , ` at he fired her off three times without loadin ' ! 
said Harry to the Commodore , with a low laugh , and then added aloud -- `` I think you may as well , Tom -- for I do n't believe the fellow will miss another bird to-day . '' 
The four birds , which Tom and the Commodore had missed at the first start , were found again in an old ragwort field , and brought to bay ; and of the twenty-three quail which Forester had marked down into the bog meadow , not one bird escaped , and of that bevy not one bird did Frank miss , killing twelve , all of them double shots , to his own share , and beating Archer in a canter . 
You , A -- , have killed three double shots -- I have killed three -- Tom Draw one double shot , and the odd bird ; and Master Frank there , confound him , six double shots running -- the cleverest thing I ever heard of , and , in Forester 's case , the best shooting possible . 
I have missed one bird , you two , and Tom three . '' 
`` But Tom beant a goin ' to miss no more birds , I can tell you , boy . 
Tom 's drinked agin , and feels kind o ' righter than he did -- kind o ' first best!You 'd best all drink , boys -- the spring 's handy , close by here ; and after we gits down acrost the road into the big swamp , and Hell-Hole , there ar n't a drop o ' water fit to drink , till we gits way down to Aunt Sally 's big spring-hole , jest to home . '' 
However , we are sure to find a dozen birds or so in Hell-Hole ; and a bevy of quail in the Captain 's swamp , sha n't we , Tom ? '' 
`` There har n't been nothing of frosts yet , keen enough to stir them , '' said Tom . 
`` I never saw it look so well , Tom . 
Before the dogs were thrown into it , Frank was sent forward to the extreme point , and the Commodore out into the open field , on the opposite side from that occupied by fat Tom . 
It was a huge day 's sport -- a day 's sport to talk about for years afterward -- Tom Draw does talk about it now ! 
When they reached Tom 's it was decided that they should all return home on the morrow ; that Harry should attend to the procuring his purchase money ; and Tom to the cheapening of the purchase . 
`` Here 's a lark , Frank , '' exclaimed that worthy , pitching the billet down upon the table , and casting himself into an arm-chair ; `` Old Tom is to be here to-day to dinner , and wants to go with us to the Snipe Meadow . 
`` But will Tom really be here ? 
Have you seen him ? '' 
The space between the windows was occupiedby two fine engravings , one of the Duke of Wellington , the other of Sir Walter in his study -- Harry 's political and literary idols ; a library centre table , with an inkstand of costly buhl , covered with periodicals and papers , and no less than four sumptuous arm-chairs of divers forms and patterns , completed the appointments of the room ; but the picture still would be incomplete , were I to pass over a huge tortoise-shell Tom Cat , which dozed upon the rug in amicable vicinity to our old friends the spaniels Dan and Flash . 
It did not occupy me quite so long to take a survey of these well-remembered articles , as it has done to describe them ; nor , in fact , had that been the case , should I have found the time to reconnoitre them ; for scarcely was I seated by the fire , before the ponderous trampling of Old Tom might be heard on the stair-case , as in vociferous converse with our host he came down from the chamber , wherein , by some strange process of persuasion assuredly peculiar to himself , Harry had forced him to go through the ceremony of ablution , previous to his attack upon the viands , which were in truth not likely to be dealt with more mercifully in consequence of this delay . 
Another moment , and they entered -- `` Arcades ambo '' duly rigged for the occasion -- Harry in his neat claret-colored jocky-coat , white waiscoat , corduroys and gaiters -- Tom in Canary-colored vest , sky-blue dress coat with huge brass buttons , gray kerseymere unmentionables , with his hair positively brushed , and his broad jolly face clean shaved , and wonderfully redolent of soap and water . 
he exclaimed -- `` How be you , Forester -- you looks well , anyways . '' 
`` Why , I am well , Tom , '' responded I , `` but I shall be better after I 've had that drink that Archer 's getting ready -- you ` redry , I fancy -- '' `` Sartain ! '' 
was the expected answer ; and in a moment the pale Amontillado sherry and the bitters were paraded -- but no such d -- d washy stuff , as he termed it , would the old Trojan look at , much less taste ; and Harry was compelled to produce the liquor stand , well stored with potent waters , when at the nick of time McTavish entered in full fig for a regular slap-up party , not knowing at all whom he had been asked to meet . 
`` What , Draw , '' said he , `` who the devil thought of seeing you here -- when did you come down ? 
the dew , certainly , '' he continued , in reply to Archer , who was pressing a drink on him -- `` the mountain dew for me -- catch a Highlander at any other dram , when Whasky ` sto the fore -- aye , Tom ? '' 
See to him now ! '' 
as Mac tossed off his modicum , and smacked his lips approvingly ; `` see to him now ! 
I had expected from Tom 's lips some preternatural burst of wonder , at this display of preparation , the like of which , as I conceived , had never met his eyes before -- but , whether he had been indoctrinated by previous feeds at Harry 's hospitable board , or had learned by his own native wit the difficult lesson of nil admirari , he sat down without any comment , though he stared a little wildly , when he saw nothing eatable upon the table , except a large dish of raw oysters , flanked by a lemon and a cruet of cayenne . 
`` Why not exactly , Tom , '' responded Archer , when he could speak for laughing -- `` these are merely for a whet to give us an appetite . '' 
By this time the natives , which had so moved Tom 's indignation , were succeeded by a tureen of superb mutton broth , to which the old man did devote himself most assiduously , while Mac was loud in approbation of the brouse , saying it only wanted bannocks to be perfection . 
`` D -- n you , you 're niver satisfied -- you aint '' -- Tom had commenced , when he was cut short by `` The Sherry round -- Tim '' -- from our host -- `` you 'd better take the brown , Tom , it 's the strongest ! '' 
`` The green one is for brandy -- Tom ! '' 
-- Tom interrupted him -- `` and they makes them greenI guess , so as no one shall see how much a body takes -- now that 's what I does call genteel ! '' 
`` And this large plain one '' -- added Mac , looking as grave as a judge , and lifting one of the huge champagne glasses -- `` is a dram glass for drinking Scotch whiskey -- what they call in the Highlands a thimblefull -- '' `` They take it as a medicine there , you see , Tom '' -- continued Archer -- a preventive to a disease well known in those parts , called the Scotch fiddle -- did you ever hear of it ? '' 
`` Carnt say '' -- responded Tom `` what like is ` t ? '' 
`` Oh , Mac will tell you , he suffers from it sadly -- did n't you see him tuck in the specific -- it was in compliment to him I had the thimblesset out to-day . '' 
-- the fat man answered -- `` well I do n't care if I do '' -- in answer to Harry 's inquiry whether he would take some boiled shad , which , with caper sauce , had replaced the soup -- `` I do n't care if I do -- Shads is n't got to Newburgh yet , leastways I harnt seen none -- '' Well might he say that , by the way , for they had scarce appeared in New York , and were attainable now only at the moderate rate of something near their weight in silver . 
After the fish , a dram of Ferintosh was circulated in one small glass , exquisitely carved into the semblance of a thistle , which Draw disposed of with no comment save a passing wonder that when men could get apple-jack , they should be willing to take up with such smoky trash as that . 
Now this wine has no such fault , it has a body -- '' `` I do n't know , Archer , '' interrupted Tom , `` what that ere sarjeant meant with his d -- d o di vee , but I know now that I 'd a d -- d sight rayther have a drink o ' brandy , or the least mite of apple-jack , than a whole keg of this red rot-gut ! '' 
`` You 've hit the nail on the head , Tom , '' answered I , while Harry , knowing the old man 's propensities , marched off in search of the liquor stand -- `` It wasbrandy that the serjeant meant ! '' 
`` Then why in h -- l did d' t he say brandy , like a man -- instead of coming out with his d -- d snivelling o di vee ? '' 
`` Why , Tom , '' said I , in explanation , `` he admired your favorite drink so much , that he used the Frendh name as most complimentary ; it means water of life ! '' 
`` What , he wateredit too , did he ? 
I thought he must be a d -- d poor drinkin ' man , to call things out of their right names -- precious little of the raal stuff had he ever drinked , I reckon , watered or not -- o di vee!D -- n all such Latin trash , says I . 
Tom burst out , on the instant , `` oh , oh ! 
hand them in then -- hand them in -- where 's yourcoat , Tom ? 
Myself and Timothy , with the two setters , in the box-seat behind , the leathern apron unrolled and buttoned up , over a brace of buffalo robes , hairy side inward , to our middles -- Harry and Tom in front , with one superb black bearskin drawn up by a ring and strap to the centre of the back rail between them , and the patent water-proof apron hooked up to either end of the seat -- the effeminacy of umbrellas we despised -- our cigars lighted , and our bodies duly muffled up , off we went , at a single chirrup of our driver , whose holly four-horse whip stood in the socket by his side unheeded , as with his hands ungloved , and his beautiful , firm , upright seat upon the box , he wheeled off at a gentle trot , the good nags knowingtheir master 's hand and voice , as well as if they had been his children , and obeyingthem far better . 
`` Better a d -- d sight , '' Tom chimed in , `` than layin snoozin till the sun is high ; but that 's the way with these etarnal drinkin men , they does keep bright just so long as they keeps a liquorin ; but when that 's done with , you do n't hear nothin more of them till noon , or arter . 
answered Tom ; `` Soberly ! 
Every thing being now prepared , and having ordered dinner to be in readiness at seven , we lighted our cigars and started ; Harry , with the two setters trotting steadily at his heels , and his gun on his shoulder , leading the way at a step that would have cleared above five miles an hour , I following at my best pace , Tom Draw puffing and blowing like a grampus in shoal water , and John Van Dyne swinging along at a queer loping trot behind me . 
`` You take the right hand , Frank ; and , Tom , keep you the ditch bank , all the way ; the ground is firmest there ; we 've got the wind in our favor ; a little farther off , Frank , they wont lie hard for an hour or two , at all events ; and I do n't believe we shall find a bird before we cross the next fence . '' 
`` In h -- ll , I guess they be , '' responded Master Draw ; `` leastwise they flew far enough to be there anyhow ! '' 
Tom , they 've not gone so very far , '' said Archer , `` and there 's good lying for them there , I shall be satisfied if they all go that way . 
`` Come up , Tom -- come up , you old sinner -- dont you see Shot 's got a snipe under his very nose ? '' 
I sees , '' answered Tom ; `` I sees it , d -- n you ! 
I 'll flush him , '' exclaimed Harry , taking a step in advance ; and instantly up sprang the bird , with his sharp , thrice-repeated cry , and a quick flutter of his wings , almost straight into the air over the head of Tom , striving to get the wind . 
Draw 's first barrel was discharged , the snipe being at that moment scarce ten feet from the muzzle , the whole load going like a bullet , of course harmlessly ! 
-- his second followed , but , like the first , in vain ; for the bird , having fairly weathered him , was flying very fast , and twisting all the time , directly up wind . 
`` It warnt so d -- d slow , no how , '' replied Tom , somewhat crest-fallen , as he re-loaded his huge demi-cannon . 
Look out , Tom , watch that beggar to your right there ; he has done drumming , and is going to ` light ; '' and , with the word , sheer down he darted some ninety yards from the spot where we stood , till he was scarce three feet above the marsh ; when he wheeled off , and skimmed the flat , uttering a sharp harsh clatter , entirely different from any sound I ever heard proceed from a snipe 's bill before , though in wild weather in the early spring time I have heard it since , full many a day . 
Pointing toward the spot where I had marked it , I was advancing stealthily , when Archer said , `` You may try if you like , but I can tell you that you wont get near him ! '' 
On we went , therefore , Tom Draw swearing strange oaths at the birds , that acted so darnation cur ` ous , and at myself and Harry for being such etarnal fools as to have brought him sweatin into them d -- d stinkin mud-holes ; and I , to say the truth , almost despairing of success . 
In half an hour 's walking we did , however , reach some ground , which -- yielding far more shelter to the birds , as being meadow-land not pastured , but covered with coarse rushy tussocks -- seemed to promise something better in the way of sport ; and before we had gone many yards beyond the first fence , a bird rose at long distance to Tom 's right , and was cut down immediately by a quick snap shot of that worthy , on whose temper , and ability to shoot , the firmer ground and easier walking had already begun to work a miracle . 
`` So much for Tom Draw 's lecture upon cruelty to animals -- that 's what I call rich ! '' 
`` Now , Tom , '' cried Harry , feeling his horses ' mouths as he spoke , but not attempting to pull up ; and instantly the old man 's heavy double rose steadily but quickly to his face -- bang ! 
`` We have done that same once or twice before though -- hey , Tom ? '' 
replied Harry , pulling his horses well together , and gathering them up by slow degrees -- not coming to a dead stop till we had passed Tom 's first bird , some six yards or better . 
Come , Tom , load up your old cannon , and we 'll take Shot , bag that wing-tipped duck , and see if we ca n't nab the crippled bird , too ! 
Off we set without further parley ; within five minutes I had bagged Tom 's first , a rare green-headed Drake , and joined Van Dyne , who , with the head and neck of his first bird hanging out of his breeches pocket , where , in default of game-bag , he had stowed it , was just in the act of pouring a double handful of BB into his Queen Ann 's musket . 
Before he had loaded , we heard a shot across the road , and saw the fifth bird fall to Harry at long distance , while Shot was gently mouthing Draw 's second duck , to his unutterable contentment . 
Harry and Tom had seen the move , and walked up to join me ; just as they came Chase retrieved the snipe I had shot , and when I had entombed it in my pocket , we moved on all abreast . 
Up they jumped , not six yards from our feet , positively in a flock , their bright white bellies glancing in the sun , twenty at least in number , Six barrels were discharged , and six birds fell ; we loaded and moved on , the dogs drawing at every step , backing and pointing , so foiled was the ground with the close scent ; again , before we had gathered the fruit of our first volley , a dozen birds rose altogether ; again six barrels bellowed across the plain , and again Tom and Harry slew their shots right and left , while I , alas ! 
After the horses were announced as ready , somewhat to my surprise , Harry took old Tom aside , and was engaged for some time in deep conversation ; and when they had got through with it , Harry shook him very warmly by the hand , saying , `` Well , Tom , I am sincerely obliged to you ; and it is not the first time either . '' 
`` Well , well , boy , '' responded Tom , `` I guess it ` taint the first time as you 've said so , though I do n't know right well what for neither . 
This was soon done , and Tom , replenishing all the glasses to the brim , said very solemnly , `` this is a toast , boys , nowa raal bumper . '' 
said Tom , `` luck to Harry Archer , a land-holder in our own old Orange ! '' 
`` Thanks to old Tom , dog cheap ! '' 
