`` That fellow , '' replied the person thus appealed to , coming up , and speaking in that low , confidential way , common with men of secretiveness -- `` his name is Vane Willis , from one of the neighboring towns , -- a bold hunter , and a sure marksman , they say , he having practiced a good deal with the Indians , and proved himself a match for the best of them . 
I know Mr. Sniffkin is well trained in shooting , and has the most costly and high finished piece in the colony ; but I am really afraid this Willis , with his heavy , thick barreled gun , will beat him . '' 
`` Yes , Vane Willis is as good as beat , '' cried the exulting inspectors , as they came swaggering along back to the stand . 
`` He can never equal that shot . '' 
We can tell better after Vane has fired , '' retorted the friends of Willis , who were evidently a majority of the marksmen present , and who now gathered round their tacitly acknowledged leader , with looks plainly betokening their confidence of his triumph . 
`` The fact is , Vane Willis is the best shot in the whole colony . '' 
`` Yes , sir , and if that time does come , '' retorted Willis , `` and this piece , in myhands , with myknowledge of the enemy , does not as good service on our side , as yourpiece , in yourhands , then I will agree to bear your taunts in silence . 
Yes , sir , I repeat the challenge ; and I have a few friends here , I think , '' he added looking around on the little band of his hardy comrades , who , as the altercation progressed , drew closer and closer to his side , with increasing manifestations of their sympathy -- `` a few friends , perhaps , who are willing to vouch for me that I shall not be the first one to back out . 
But do you seriously suppose we are likely to see those times , Willis ? 
`` He has shown himself a seeker of occasions to disparage our rulers and take the part of the heathen salvages against them . 
But you may have a chance to do much more , to-day ; for this matter must and will be carried through , notwithstanding all that has been said by that low caitiff , Vane Willis , whose treasonable words just now I hope you will remember and report to our rulers , whom he has so shamefully reviled . 
Vane Willis , who knew something of the witness , and was perfectly familiar with the localities of the murder , now worked himself along through the crowd , took a seat directly behind Williams , and whispered to him a few suggestions , of which he might take advantage . 
`` He did not appear to fear and tremble much to-day , methought , when he appeared before the whole court and people , at the close of the execution , and so boldly told them what they might expect from what they had done , '' carelessly remarked Vane Willis , the successful young marksman , before introduced , who seemed to have been listening rather impatiently to the Shadow 's notions of duty and way of carrying them out . 
`` If you knew better what stuff Metacom was made of , you might be a trifle less confident , perhaps , '' responded Willis , quietly . 
`` I think so , too , '' chimed in Dick Swain , still smarting under the remembrance of the hazardous dilemma in which he believed Willis had assisted Williams to place him at the trial . 
`` And hypocrites , knaves , and fools are then to have their own way without let or hindrance , I suppose , '' rejoined the marksman , with an air of undisguised disdain , as he whirled on his heel , and left the group , on his way up the street . 
`` A youngerly , but very froward fellow , called Vane Willis , from some place out of town , though often here , it is thought , and I fear with no good design . 
In truth , I have the most painful surmises , that he is trying to tamper with some who have been especially placed under godly influences , and the protecting care of the Christian household . 
O Vane Willis , Vane Willis , how your words pain me ! '' 
Vane Willis , '' she added , holding up the blade with both hands , and imprinting an ardent kiss on its burnished side , `` Vane Willis , this is yours ; and I pass it to your hands , consecrated by the love of the giver . 
But mayhap it is better as it is , than if I had charged her obstinate standing-out against my plan , to her secret leanings to that pestilent Willis , as I intended , if she had not run away , and as I still more than ever opine to be the true reason of her contumacy . 
And is it not all the work of Sathan and that accursed Vane Willis ? 
But she need n't shame about it ; for Vane Willis is a young man the kurnel hisself wud be proud of . '' 
When Taffy joined the group , Dick Swain was proceeding in full blast with a description of his adventure with a prowling band of King Philip 's Indians , and his marvelous escape , which he attributed solely , as Willis had predicted he would , to his own prowess . 
`` But the instigator of that foul deed , which came so near costing me my life , '' he added , in conclusion , -- `` the instigator is well known ; and he is a marked man , too , as you might judge for yourselves , maybe , if you could see all the papers now in the constable 's pocket . '' 
In one of these groups stood our young hero , Vane Willis , who , it will be recollected , had avowed his purpose of coming to this quarter to enlist some chosen friends to stand ready to engage with him in repelling the first onset in the war he so confidently anticipated . 
He was conversing with a stoutly built , middle-aged man , with a bronzed , weather-beaten visage , and a frank , resolute countenance . 
`` I have now , '' said Willis , at the point of the conversation which it concerns us to report -- `` I have now privately enrolled in your colony , Captain Mosely , a dozen choice fellows that I have been with enough in forest hardships and dangers , to know the mettle they are made of ; and , within another week , I will have twice that number in my own colony , equally well fitted for the service . 
Oh , that was no very serious matter , I fancy , '' said Willis , smiling . 
`` Oh , that 's it , -- I see now , -- there 's the secret of your difficulty , Willis . 
`` I ca n't say , Captain , '' remarked Willis , good-humoredly shaking his head , -- `` that I quite approve the principle you apear to have acted on in the matter . '' 
`` Captain Mosely , '' said Willis , who had retained his place at the side of the other , and had been the most out-spoken of all in approval of his course , `` I shall always honor you for your fearless and humane interposition . 
It was the voice of the half distracted Vane Willis , as he turned in despair from his fruitless search to discover the retreat , or fate of the persecuted maiden , whose mysterious disappearance was mentioned at the close of a former chapter . 
We parted with Willis , it will be recollected , in conversation with the rough-and-ready Captain Mosely , on the banks of Charles ' river , in the vicinity of Boston , where they both appeared to be present to witness the embarkation of the praying Indians . 
Taffy and his wife were overjoyed to see him ; for , from the want of any better solution of the mystery , having fallen in with the prevalent opinion that their young mistress had privately left , after they had retired at night , and gone off with Willis , whom they believed to be her accepted lover , they were looking to himfor the very information he was hoping to obtain from them , respecting her otherwise wholly unaccountable absence . 
The last intimation concerning the designs of the conspirators on himself , Willis treated with open derision and defiance ; but on all the rest , he felt too deeply exasperated and alarmed to make it prudent for him to attempt to give any expression to the emotions of his laboring bosom . 
And having gained all the information he could expect from the warmly sympathizing Taffy and his wife , he cautioned them against disclosing to any one the fact of his visit here , and assured them that he would know no rest until he had found their mistress , or ascertained her fate , he took his leave of the anxious old couple , and , mounting his horse , rode slowly and thoughtfully back to the residence of his friend , which he now concluded to make his headquarters for the further investigation , which he was now sternly determined to pursue . 
After anxiously pondering the whole subject , and carefully weighing all the circumstances which he thought could have any connection with Madian 's disappearance , he at length reached the conclusion , that one of three things only , could have befallen her : -- Either Deacon Mudgridge or some of his minions had abducted her , and conveyed her to some place where they could control her , or she , driven to desperation by her persecutions , had committed suicide ; or finally , that , in attempting to make her way to the house of some friend out of town , she had been seized by the Indians and carried away to some of their distant villages to be kept for ransom , or an hostage , in anticipation of approaching hostilities . 
From what Willis already knew of the despicable schemings of Deacon Mudgridge , he felt strongly inclined to look upon the first of these suppositions as the true one ; and he resolved to contrive some means for forming a definite opinion on this part of the subject . 
Accordingly , the next morning , he laid the whole case before his friend Noel , who was a shrewd , trusty man , and who , deeply sympathizing in his anxieties , readily undertook the task , and went off immediately to Plymouth with that object , leaving Willis to take a tour of inspection round all the ponds in that town or vicinity which would be likely to be resorted to for the purpose of suicide by drowning . 
`` Well , Noel , '' said the impatient Willis , as soon as they were alone , `` my day 's work has resulted in no discoveries ; must your report be as empty ? '' 
`` The result of all was , that the Deacon and his nephew , and all they can influence , are death on you , Vane Willis ; and you had better look out , for you are a marked man there . '' 
They tell strange stories about the Deacon , Willis . '' 
`` I thought so , Willis ; and , coupling the affair with some things you told me last night , I studied upon it all the way home , but came to no conclusion . 
`` Well , Willis , though I still can not help doubting whether you have even now hit upon the true version of the affair , yet , as I ca n't at present offer any better one , I will say no more , except to ask what movement you next propose to make by way of following up the investigation ? '' 
`` And supposing you dodiscover what you judge to be such a trail , Willis , what will you do then ? '' 
To those who can appreciate the intense anxieties which a gallant and resolute young lover would naturally feel under the circumstances , it will not be necessary to tell how faithfully and untiringly Willis , with the efficient aid of his keenly observing red associates , carried out the next day , the plan of operations which he had so sanguinely marked out for himself . 
A little before sunset , having himself made no discoveries , he reluctantly relinquished the search , which , on his part , had been wholly fruitless , and repaired to the place he had appointed to meet his Indian scouts at sunset , and hear the reports of the observations which they severally might have made through the day . 
Punctual to their appointment , the Indian scouts , from some of whom , at least , Willis still hoped to hear favorable tidings , all arrived at their elevated rendezvous before sunset ; when one after another they related to their anxious employer their doings , minutely describing the routes they had taken , and the manner and amount of their observations made on each through the day . 
Disappointed , sad , and now this last hope of being put on the track of Madian having thus vanished , more than ever perplexed to account for her disappearance , Willis turned away from the spot , despondingly murmuring the words with which the present chapter was commenced -- O , Madian , Madian , Madian ! 
Instantly comprehending that the men must be the heralds of important tidings , which they appeared to be proclaiming at every house they passed , Willis , followed by his attendants , hurried down the hill towards the road to get near enough to hail them as they came by . 
`` It has come then at last , '' said Willis , after standing a moment mute and half paralized , under the first effect of the startling announcement which had just been made -- `` sooner indeed than I reallyexpected , but not sooner than I feared ; and the blow as I predicted , has fallen suddenly and without warning . 
So saying , he turned to his Indian followers , who had , as readily as himself , comprehended all that had occurred , and in a brief and pointed address told them all his arrangements for forming a company of rangers for the war ; and then he made known his wish to enlist them all , and as many more as were inclined to join him , to serve for scouts , runners , or fighting men , as circumstances might require , and to be rewarded according to their faithfulness and the value of their services . 
As he expected , they all promptly responded to his appeal , and declared themselves ready to enter upon any duty he might see fit to assign them . 
Taking them at their word he dispatched them immediately to all the different individuals , far and near , about the colony , who had given him encouragement of joining his company , to request them to meet him with the least possible delay , at Noel 's farm house , which he had appointed as their rendezvous . 
Equally expeditious and fortunate , in the meanwhile , had been our young hero , the determined Vane Willis , in collecting and organizing his promptly responding associates , preparatory to an immediate march for the defence of the imperiled inhabitants of the southern frontiers . 
Of this promising band , Willis had , the night before , as all both wished and expected , been unanimously chosen captain , and Noel , the second in command ; while all the subordinate offices had been filled with almost equal unanimity . 
`` Can it be , '' said Willis , after listening a moment to this indication of the approach of some military army , and scanning with interest the advancing horseman -- `` Can it be , that the Bay colony have rallied , and pushed on their forces so expeditiously as this comes to ? 
Willis was correct in his conjecture . 
said Willis jocosely , as he glanced at the rather sorry looking horse on which the other was mounted . 
`` Well , Willis , I am ashamed to tell you ; and for the credit of the Bay troops , I hope you will not believe a word of the story . '' 
`` There , captain , your company are just heaving in sight , '' said Willis , pointing to the head of a column of men just emerging from a copsewood on the road about a mile distant . 
`` There are those about Plymouth court who are looking for a chance to pick a quarrel with Captain Willis ; and I have been advising him to stear clear of them . '' 
`` Willis told me something about it . 
`` Nor will I , Captain Mosely , '' responded Willis , with a determined air . 
And so the officers parted , Willis and Noel with their brave little band , which they now at once put in motion , to march to Plymouth , and Mosely to sit on his horse in waiting for his company to arrive . 
I confess , as you do know , governor , that my Christian patience has been sorely tried , lately , in the matter of the scandalous outrage enacted by that shameless heretic , called Vane Willis , in abducting or , by his devilish arts , enticing away from her home , and the lawful protection of her friends , that young lamb of our Christian flock , the daughter of our good and worthy sister Southworth . '' 
He had that moment identified the young officer with the hated Vane Willis ; and the expression of trained meekness which first sat upon his flat , meaty visage , and which was then banished by the surprise of the unexpected discovery , had now settled into a look of wolfish ferocity . 
For a moment he stood mute and hesitating , with his features fast contracting towards a focus , and working with suppressed passion . 
Soon rallying , however , he addressed a few low , earnest words to the governor , and then hastily went and whispered some order in the ear of Dick Swain , who , with a knowing , affirmative wink and nod , hurried away from the place . 
Captain Willis now came up , commanded a halt , and , uncovering his head , bowed respectfully to the governor , who seemed not a little confused and at a loss how to act in the unexpected emergency . 
`` I came , '' said Willis , in a clear , calm voice , after a pause sufficient to ensure attention -- `` I came here to report myself and company to your Excellency , as I deemed myself in duty bound . '' 
`` A company of volunteers , your Excellency , who have seen fit to honor your humble servant , Vane Willis , by placing him at their head ; and who propose immediately to march to the post of danger , hoping , by the blessing of God , to do some service in defence of the colony against the savage foe . '' 
`` I charge this same Vane Willis with numerous high handed offenses , among which it is sufficient , for this time , to name the crime of his being a heretical and pestilent Quaker , -LRB- whereof , to avert the anger of an offended God , it has been decided to purge the land , -RRB- and the still more heinous and crying offence of abducting a worthy young maiden of this good town -- for all which crimes and offenses the proper warrants are in the hands of our trusty officer , here just arriving , and I demand the criminal 's immediate arrest . '' 
demanded Willis , who , the moment a threat was made to arrest him , stopped short in his preparations to march , and boldly confronting his accuser , seemed resolved to face the charges on the spot . 
And as to the other specified offence -- that of abduction , '' he added , advancing a step towards the quailing Deacon . 
`` I can safely testify to Captain Willis 's innocence , and even entire ignorance of the manner of the disappearance of the person whose alleged abduction constitutes the last charge ; and but for myself , he would have to this hour , believed that the abductor was no other than the accuser himself . '' 
exclaimed Willis , in a determined tone , as the officer and his attendants made a move towards him . 
again cried the undaunted Willis , in a tone that brought the officer a second time to a pause . 
The last words had scarcely escaped the lips of the bold captain , before the sharp commands of Willis , `` Prepare to march ! 
rung out upon the air , and the next moment his exulting band moved defiantly away from the disgraceful scene , leaving the governor biting his lips in chagrin , and the baffled Deacon fairly foaming in his speechless rage . 
asked Willis , observing his Indian scouts now coming forward from the bushes , and falling into his rear in readiness to march . 
In spite of the remonstrances of Willis , Mosely rode off , arrayed his company , and was soon heard relating to them , with his own peculiar coloring , what had transpired to give rise to the demonstrations , of which , standing at too great a distance to understand the words exchanged on the occasion , they had been the wondering witnesses . 
cried Willis , who , having perceived what was going forward , from a little distance , now came hurrying to the spot , -- `` How is this , sir ? 
And it shows , also , I have not been at all mistaken in you , Vane Willis . '' 
Captain Willis , having divided his band and placed the two divisions at the different ends of the enclosure , had sallied out at the head of one of them , while Noel led the other , and come into open view of the enemy before Mosely and his men made their appearance . 
With the lifting of the sulphurous veil that had shrouded the spot , the now uniting forces of Willis and Mosely were seen hotly pursuing the terror-stricken savages , who , like a herd of wild horses , were rushing pell mell over the bridge to gain the coverts of the bushy plain beyond . 
`` Now , Captain Mosely , '' said Willis , coming up , after having halted his men at a point in the road where the woods were becoming thick enough to afford places of concealment for the Indians -- `` now , captain , I would not dictate , but would certainly advise you to adopt a different mode of pursuit . 
`` Captain Willis , here , though young in years , is an old scholar in the matters of which he speaks , and probably knows better how to circumvent the red sarpents we have now to deal with , than any man in the army . 
`` Let your men take the centre , then , Captain Mosely , '' rejoined Willis . 
sharply exclaimed Captain Willis , who anticipating the result of this rash and heedless advance , and far outstripping his companions in the woods to keep as near the endangered party as possible , now burst suddenly into the road , -- `` hold ! 
Mosely repairing , with deliberate step , to take the lead , a little in front of the centre of his extended line , and Willis , swiftly threading the woods to the head of his slow and stealthily-moving flanking party on the right . 
Leaving his men to move directly on without altering their pace or relaxing the caution , which he knew was now especially needed , Captain Willis took a wide , outward sweep , but with a speed sufficient still to keep him considerably in advance of the foremost of his men ; and then tacking short to the left , soon gained a thickly covered elevation , which overlooked all the principal coverts that shielded the enemy in their fatal assault upon the discomfited troopers . 
Creeping cautiously along to the edge of the thicket on the brow of the elevation , he fell to inspecting , one after another , every dark spot and depression in the ground , within the reach of his vision , where any of the foe could possibly lie concealed . 
At first he ran his eye successively over all such objects and places , without discovering anything calculated to excite the least suspicion . 
Presently the sharp cracking of a dry limb under some heavy tread , away to the left , reached his ear , and almost at the same instant , a slight , quick movement of something somewhere within the area which had just undergone his fruitless inspection , flitted indistinctly across his half averted vision . 
He therefore again closely bent his gaze in the direction ; but for some time with no better success than before . 
At length , however , he detected what appeared like two small humps or hummock , ranging in a line , one before the other , standing up just in sight out of a little hollow so thickly fringed , on the side next to Mosely 's advancing line , with low , leafy shrubs , as to afford a perfect concealment of what might be lying in the hollow behind them . 
As Willis cast his eye in the direction indicated by the suspicious tube , his heart leaped to his mouth on descrying the stalwart Mosely advancing in the same range , not more than thirty rods from the concealed foe , using little or no precaution , and evidently unconscious of the proximity of danger . 
It was a shot which none but a marksman could have made , and it not only destroyed a dangerous foeman , but was the means of deciding the fortunes of the day ; for , with the report of the rifle , and the death screech of its victim , a dozen painted warriors , alarmed at this unexpected attack on their flank , and its fatal result on one of their leading braves , leaped quickly from their seemingly impossible concealments around , and in their surprise and dismay , stood for a minute looking confusedly about them , and exposing themselves as fair marks for the fire of Mosely 's line , who were now drawing near , and who , but for the timely shot of Willis , must have been , for all their supposed vigilance , very soon , and to a fearful extent , perhaps , fatally surprised . 
Captains Mosely and Willis , now seeing the uselessness of further pursuit , called in their men ; when finding none to be missing , and but two wounded , and those only very slightly , the two companies marched back to the garrison , with that keen sense of inward exultation which men usually feel , when they have done a proud deed without the aid , and against the warnings and discouragements , of those who claim to be their superiors . 
Thankful even for this permission , Willis at once decided to avail himself of it , and lost no time in making his preparation for starting on the hazardous enterprise , whither it will best suit the objects of our story to accompany him and the gallant little band of which he was the idolized leader . 
`` I understand it all , '' said Willis , turning away with the air of one who deems the subject of inquiry fully settled . 
`` Then , friend Willis , we may as well call you a lost man . 
`` Good bye , captain -- good bye , my friend Willis . 
After Captain Willis obtained permission to detach his little band from the main army , which was not to return until the next day , he immediately left Mount Hope , and made a forced march back to Swansey that night , for the purpose of supplying his company with the food and ammunition necessary for the projected expedition into the great forest on the east side of the Narraganset bay , in search of King Philip 's forces , whom he felt so confident he should discover to be there concentrated . 
And no signs betokening the vicinage of the enemy having been discovered anywhere above , Captain Willis soon determined to encamp at this place for the night , and make it his head quarters for the reconnoissance . 
He proposed to set on foot the next morning , feeling very confident , from his knowledge of the country , that Metacom and his collected warriors could not now be far distant . 
Accordingly , they cast about them for a place for encampment , which would afford them the best advantages for defence in case of an attack by night , and soon were fortunate enough to find one enclosed on three sides by the overhanging shelf of an encircling ledge of rocks , and the water and an almost impenetrable tangle of fallen trees on the other ; and , forbearing to kindle any tell-tale fires , they partook , each from his well stored pack , their evening meal , and lay down on their mossy carpet for their welcome repose , which , happily , was not disturbed till the bright morning sun , peering over the eastern hills , looked down into the fastness of their bivouac , and roused them from their slumbers to enter upon the untried scenes of the day before them . 
Before deciding on any plan of action , however , Willis decided on taking his lieutenant with him and ascending to the top of the hill , believing they might there make discoveries which might decide the plan of operations to be pursued ; when , on the suggestion of the captain , they both exchanged dresses with two of their Saconet scouts , with additional disguises on the part of the former , and set off for the summit , where we introduced them in the new characters they decided to assume to favor the important discoveries they are intent on making . 
Leaving his anxious and apprehensive subaltern to return to his company , on the shore below , Captain Willis , after the parting we have described , immediately set forth to execute his daring purpose . 
He well knew his personal safety must necessarily be more or less involved in the undertaking . 
Yet the public interest , he believed , demanded the risk at his hands . 
And this , he persuaded himself , would have alone decided the question of the bold attempt , if he had no other object in view . 
But he had another object in view , which he had not chosen to reveal , and which was more potent in inciting him to the undertaking , perhaps , than he would have been ready to acknowledge . 
He fully believed that his lost Madian was somewhere retained as a captive among the Indians , and he had resolved that he would , in some way or other , penetrate into every Indian village or encampment in the country , before he would relinquish his hope of her recovery . 
Willis instantly perceived both his error and his danger -- his error in so thoughtlessly appearing here with a gun , the like of which , he knew , was nowhere to be found in the country , except in the possession of King Philip , and consequently his imminent danger of being thereby detected . 
Willis could almost feel the burning gaze , with which he knew the Indian was regarding him , but without venturing to return it , or make any reply , he faced about , and with an indifferent , swaggering manner , stood as if waiting to hear the result of the threatened inquiry . 
But not long was he content to remain in this attitude . 
Believing the Wampanoog , whose suspicions had been dangerously aroused , would return for a further scrutiny , which would probably result in the still more certainly fatal measure of being compelled to confront the eagle eyed chief himself , he instantly resolved to run the risk of a precipitate flight rather than remain to undergo such a hopeless ordeal . 
Waiting no longer , therefore , than to see a few intervening trees placed between him and the receding Indian , he cautiously edged himself along into the bushes , glided rapidly round to the rear of the thick tree top , which had before so effectually screened him , and then bounded forward , in the same direction , thirty or forty rods into the forest without stopping to listen , or look behind him . 
Here throwing himself behind a large tree , standing on a small rise , he paused to take breath , and listen for any sounds which might reach him from the scene he had just left ; hardly expecting , however , that in the two or three minutes that only could have elapsed since he lost sight of the suspecting Wampanoog , that his story , whatever it might have been , could have possibly been communicated and understood , so that any alarm should as yet be thus created . 
But he was not long in discovering his mistake , or in being convinced that his escape had not been one moment too soon effected . 
A confused murmur of excited voices , in the direction of the camp , quickly apprised him , that his foes were in commotion ; and almost at the same instant , a low , sharp yell of exultation , evidently rising near the spot where he entered the thick woods , saluted his startled ears , plainly telling him that a band of pursuers had already discovered and entered on his trail . 
Protruding his head for a last glance , before leaving his stand , his eyes were suddenly greeted with a stream of smoke fiercely darting out from a thicket , about half way between him and the supposed locality of his pursuers , and with the instantly succeeding report of a musket , he became sensible that a bullet was grazing the tree and passing between his chin and his breast . 
Quickly throwing himself at the roots of the tree , so that no further glimpse or shadow of his person could be obtained , he paused a moment for thought . 
He judged , and rightly too , that the shot came from the Indian he had encountered , who , after sounding the alarm , had run ahead in pursuit , and judged rightly , also , that this Indian , after firing , would not approach any nearer , for fear of a return shot , till his companions should come up . 
And having settled this in his mind , he rapidly crept away from the screening tree , a few rods into the thickest part of the woods in view , rose to his feet , and turning a sharp angle to the south , and pitching his course towards the place where his company were stationed , made his way through the tangled forest with a speed which was quickened every furlong of his progress by the fierce yells of his evidently fast accumulating foes in hot pursuit , but a short distance behind him . 
And if Captain Willis was that fugitive , as he suspected , and had not been brought down by the shot , his chance of an escape was by no means a foregone conclusion for one so well known for his fleetness , especially in the forest . 
said Willis , enquiringly , but with his usual calmness . 
Now let each put his best foot forward for our company . '' 
The policy of Captain Willis in scattering his men widely into the woods , was destined to subserve even more purposes than the ordinary ones for which it was intended , -- those of facilitating flight , and confusing the enemy , in case of being overtaken . 
Metacom , now he knows his enemies have penetrated this wilderness , where he doubtless supposed himself secure against their intrusion , will never permit us to get away without an attack , or , at least , without knowing our numbers and how we came here . 
`` There , my lads , '' rejoined Willis , `` you see that your lieutenant is of the same opinion with me . 
`` I thank you , '' said Willis , as soon as he found himself and friend fairly beyond the hearing of any of the men -- `` I sincerely thank you , Noel , for backing me with those cheering words . 
At first , both Willis and Noel were incredulous , and tried to remonstrate with the men , believing their accounts at least to have been much exaggerated by their fears , and confidently asserting the opinion that two or three persons going forward with long , light poles , could easily clear the way , so that a passage could be effected with entire safety . 
Noel now falling into the rear , and Willis leading the way , they all , with hurrying steps , silently made their way out of the luckless defile , which had caused them a delay , that at this juncture , they felt , was fraught with especial danger . 
Captain Willis , who had already reached the edge of the woods , amazed but undisturbed by the perfect shower of bullets , which pierced his clothes , or whistled over his head , gave the first thought for the fate of his men , half of whom , at least , he supposed must have been swept away by the terrible volley . 
But with a joy equalled only by his surprise , he beheld every man on his feet , and apparently unharmed . 
he shouted as he saw several of his men raising their pieces to return the fire , -- `` Give God the thanks for this miracle if you escape under such a volley as that , and follow me through the field to the point of the neck as fast as your legs can carry you ! '' 
And it was this open space which constituted the extreme point of the neck , and the position selected by Captain Willis for making his final stand against his savage pursuers ; the nearest woods being some hundred yards from the spot he proposed to occupy , and the abundance of loose stones lying near it being capable , with a little labor , of forming a tolerable breast-work for the men . 
`` Courage , my boys , '' exclaimed Willis , fearing the dampening effect of that terrific shout on the minds of his men -- `` Courage ! 
exclaimed Captain Willis , in tones that roused every sinking heart to hope and expectation , as , after anxiously running his eye over the bay , he eagerly pointed towards a small vessel bearing down from the narrows above , in full sail directly towards them . 
said Willis , with a bantering smile , as he turned to the skipper . 
`` Oh , that you will probably do before morning , '' replied Willis , after a thoughtful pause , in which he was evidently revolving the mysterious words of the other . 
`` Ah , I have much less faith in your weather wisdom than in your good fortune , which makes me feel that I shall , at least , have no Jonah aboard to-night , '' replied the persistent skipper , abruptly turning away and leaving the other alone to his reflections . 
They are a company of hardy young woodsmen , who , on the first alarm , all promptly volunteered to serve under their equally young commander , Captain Willis , who , though acting with his men in a mere voluntary capacity , not being in favor enough at the court of Plymouth to procure a commission , has yet already done more in keeping the enemy in check than all the regularly commissioned companies put together . 
And since this last bold exploit , the whole country is ringing with his praises . '' 
`` Doubtless they will , if they took woodmen 's direct courses , and their leader is what you describe him , -- Willis , -- you are sure this young leader 's name is ? '' 
`` Aye , Vane Willis is his name . '' 
`` I have learned something about him this trip , but never saw him , as he has come on to the stage of action since I was abroad in the colonies . 
And from what I have gathered from you , and what I noticed of Metacom 's evident anxiety , at least to keep trace of his movements , I should deem him a person who must soon be conspicuous in the contest . 
And I should not be surprised if he and Metacom were hereafter to be known as the two great heroes of the war . 
`` It was , as you might expect , that forward Captain Mosely , of the Massachusetts volunteers , the same that bearded the authorities at Plymouth a short time ago , and protected that audacious young heretic , called Vane Willis ; and his conduct now was equally forward and offensive ; for no sooner had the general , nathless the message just received , made known his decision not to move till after service , than he broke out into a terrible passion , and profanely swore he would not tarry one instant for prayer or anything else ; when loudly calling on his company to follow , they all rushed disorderly away from the spot , with the beating of drums and the noise of shouting , to the great surprise and offense of every godlyminded man in the army . 
It was near eight o'clock next morning when Captain Willis , with his company of victorious rangers , attended by the staunch Captain Mosely , with his brave volunteers , were seen , in their march along a road from the southeastern part of the colony , to be drawing near the point where that road intersected the great thoroughfare leading from Taunton to Plymouth . 
They were the trophies of the prompt and rapid expedition of Captain Willis -- to which allusion has already been made -- to the menaced village of Dartmouth , where , arriving at the nick of time , he rescued the half-burned and plundered town , and , by the boldness and vigor of his attack , had not only scattered and disheartened the small , and , when left to themselves , not badly disposed tribe of Dartmouth Indians , but so hotly pursued the little band of Wampanoogs who , under the lead of Annawam , -LRB- King Philip 's great war captain , -RRB- came there to instigate the assault , that the latter were glad to escape to their own fastnesses in a distant forest . 
said Willis , at the point of their dialogue which we have occasion for noting . 
`` That , for my part , I expect to do , while affairs are under present guidance and command , friend Willis , though I find it rather tough work to keep the old man in me down on witnessing such outrageous shilly shallying as I saw in them at the army yesterday , when , right in the face of the messenger just come to urge us forward , Granny Cudworth gave order to prolong our already too long halt , to listen to the prayers and preachments of that long , lean , holy-faced marplot from Plymouth . '' 
And Captain Mosely , after one or two vain attempts to speak soberly , burst out into loud and prolonged peals of obstreperous laughter ; while Captain Willis , whose merriment was somewhat neutralized by the suspicions which he had before intimated , and which now burst upon him afresh on seeing the Deacon here , made little or no comment , but spurring his horse forward , cried out to the Indians , who , conscious of their foolish position , were now beginning to look up apologetically towards their captor , -- `` What is all this , my red friends ? 
`` The victory was obtained in the morning , and Captain Willis had been for hours , before you made that prayer , on his way hither with the prisoners , that is all . '' 
Remember my warning , and see that you profit by it , sir , '' he added , looking hard at the surly Deacon , as he wheeled his horse away to the side of Captain Willis , and after a few private words with the latter , rode away to put his company in motion on the countermarch , for which he had previously ordered them to be in readiness . 
And nothing further occurring on the way to delay their progress , they all , near the close of the day , arrived safely in Plymouth ; when Captain Willis , without heeding the commotion and rejoicings , which his arrival with such unexpected trophies , on all sides , produced , immediately , with his lieutenant , Noel , for a witness , waited on the governor , announced the arrival of the Indians he had captured and brought hither for safe keeping , and , particularly stating the terms on which they had surrendered , earnestly urged the justice and policy of a strict observance of the conditions by the government . 
He then formally delivered over the prisoners to the town guards , and , after a delay of an hour or so , to allow his men time for rest and refreshment , and himself opportunity to call on some with whom his still deferred and tantalizing hopes were associated , he again put his company on their march out of town , and on their way back to the seat of war ; scarcely permitting himself to doubt , notwithstanding the misgivings of his friend Mosely , that the fate of his prisoners could possibly be otherwise than the one he had promised them , and the one they so evidently , and with such good reason , expected . 
Scarcely had the inveterate Deacon allowed himself time to recover from the fatigues of his fruitless expedition , before he was found besetting the governor with his misrepresentations and miserable religious sophistries , and intriguing with the magistrates , with the object of changing the destination of the prisoners , and within one short week , news reached the astonished and deeply exasperated Captains Willis and Mosely , that the whole body of the Indian captives had been shipped , and were then far on their way to the West Indies to be sold as slaves ! 
`` Yes , Willis , yes . '' 
There is where you have it , friend Willis . 
But do you suppose , Willis , that our over pious rulers , in taking the early examples of the Jews for a pattern , ever thought of the final fate of the Jews , who , with no other great national crimes , or , at least , no other half so deserving divine vengeance , as their wholesale murder of the Canaanites , were made to become , after a comparatively brief run of prosperity , one of the most broken up , scattered , despised , and God-forsaken people , that the wide earth was ever compelled to bear upon her loathing bosom ? '' 
But what think you , Willis , will it turn out a butchery or a fight ? '' 
`` From what I have gathered and guessed about your secret objects and anxieties , I think I understand you , friend Willis . 
`` Fetch me hither one Willis , I think they call him , '' said the general to an attendant , as soon as he had ordered the halt which now became necessary for making some desired alterations in the order of the troops , before entering the swamp -- `` one Willis , who is said to be here in the army somewhere , with a band of volunteer rangers . 
Fetch him hither straightway , as I would see him immediately . '' 
`` Your name is Vane Willis ? '' 
`` It is , your Excellency , '' respectfully but unobsequiously replied Willis . 
`` I am not in commission , sir , '' responded Willis , with a slight tinge of reproach involuntarily creeping into his tones -- `` I am not in commission , sir , nor has my company ever been recognized by the court of Plymouth . '' 
Having by these means obtained a pretty correct notion of the course to be taken , and decided on the most feasible place for entering the swamp , Captain Willis at once put his company in motion , and , closely followed by that of his fearless friend , Captain Mosely , who had claimed the privilege of leading on next in order , plunged directly into the gloomy depth of the frowning forest before him . 
Finding the guide could not be induced to proceed any further , and having been ordered to keep him under his own eye , Captain Willis ordered his men to fall back two or three rods into the woods , and , arranging themselves in a scattered line on the left , stand ready for service , as a flanking party , until the forces in the rear should advance by them on the way to the scene of action . 
`` I do n't quite fancy this ominous silence , '' said Captain Willis to his trusty lieutenant , Noel , as the two officers , who happened to have taken station near each other , were standing , like all their men , with their backs placed against the protecting trunks of large trees . 
`` No , I do n't fancy it at all , '' he added glancing out uneasily into the forest . 
shouted the excited Willis , instantly comprehending the advantages of the secreted foe , and the danger of permitting them to retain their positions a minute longer -- `` charge those on your right , Captain Mosely . 
And now , boys , '' he added , turning to his impatient men , the sharp clicking of whose cocking fire-locks everywhere proclaimed their readiness for action -- `` now , boys , scatter and run like wild horses , till you get round to flanking positions near the hither end of that line of coverts , whence the fire proceeded , and then give the red devils a death doom for every bullet you send after them . '' 
`` Mosely , I conclude , '' said Willis , as he fell in with his lieutenant , as they were retracing their steps from the soon relinquished pursuit of the scattered and flying foe -- `` Mosely , I conclude from the distance and decrease of the firing , has been as successful in scattering and driving off the enemy on that side , as we have on this . '' 
It is too soon for us to use that word , Noel , '' rejoined Willis seriously . 
Following with his eye the direction indicated by these ominous movements , Captain Willis beheld , with emotions of unutterable anguish , the head of the column of his brave companions in arms emerging from the woods , and unsuspectingly advancing with hurrying step , directly towards the end of the log leading over to the entrance , which he had seen to be so fearfully guarded . 
Overcome by his sense of their danger , and forgetful of his own exposed situation , he shouted aloud to them to desist . 
But in the intense excitement of the moment , his words seemed to be neither heard nor heeded by friend or by foe ; and the next moment his ears were greeted by the loud voice of Captain Johnson , whose company , in the order of the march , came next that of Captain Mosely , and who having reached the water , was now heard sternly crying , `` Charge ! 
And thus fighting and falling back , he had reached the southern line of the village ; when he discovered the soldiers setting fire to the wigwams at the other extremity . 
Seeing , at a glance , that unless a stop was at once put to this suicidal proceeding , the whole village must be speedily destroyed , and with it the provisions and shelter which he believed to be indispensable to the safety of the army , he left his lieutenant in command , and made his dangerous way alone back to General Winslow , and urged him , in view of the hungered condition of the men , and the alarming aspects of the cold and stormy night before them , to order instantly the incendiaries to desist and the fires to be extinguished . 
But his entreaties and suggestions finding no favor with the bigoted commander and his officers , who sneeringly told him they `` came not to save but to destroy the nested heathen , '' he sadly , and with a boding heart , returned to his company . 
By this time perceiving with alarm , from the rapid progress the fire was making , that the whole village must soon be wrapped in flames , and urged on by his private anxieties for the fate of one , who , after seemingly flitting before him for months , like some illusive vision , must , he thought , at last be found here , either as guest or captive ; he again rushed forth alone for the hazardous adventure of threading the crooked , pent lanes of the burning town , for the rescue of the loved object of his search , who must now be brought or driven from her concealment by the fast invading flames . 
And Willis , sad , disappointed , and weakened by the loss of blood from his wounds , of the effects of which he now for the first time became sensible , was turning dejectedly away from the spot , when he suddenly encountered a doubtfully garbed , unarmed man , who was evidently intent on gaining the bridge to join in the general rush of the fugitives . 
At first taking him to be one of the enemy with concealed arms , our hero instantly roused himself , and throwing back his sword , stood in the menacing attitude of one about to strike in anticipation of an assault from another . 
returned Willis , surprised , disarmed , and hesitating , under the undefined sensations created by something he saw or read in the look and manner of the other -- `` Not in arms against us ? 
exclaimed Willis , in surprise and excitement . 
After a day and night passed mostly in peaceful and refreshing slumbers , Captain Willis awoke the next morning so much better and stronger , that , when he had partaken the light but the most substantial breakfast his careful hostess dared give him , he was smilingly told by her , the bridle she had put on his tongue the day before might now , perhaps , if he desired it , be safely removed for a little season . 
The invalid , who had listened with deep interest and varying emotions to the simple and touching recital of the Quakeress , failed not to express , what , in view of some of his own experiences , he the more sensibly felt , a warm sympathy for her in her trials and afflictions . 
Nor did he hesitate to openly and strongly inveigh against the blinded bigots who had caused her trouble . 
But although the forbearing woman evidently felt the force of his remarks , yet she could not be brought to join him in any words of condemnation , and `` it is not for me to judge them , '' was her only response ; for , in common with all her remarkable sect , Still he had evidently by his kind words and frank declarations , which she had hardly expected of one from the colonies from which she had been driven , touched a chord in her feelings which greatly raised him in her regard ; which made him , indeed , henceforth doubly a favorite in the family , and caused the days of his convalescence to pass pleasantly away . 
Within four days from the recovery of his consciousness , he was able to leave his bed , and sat up for hours at a time -- within a week , to walk about the house and yard , and , in less than another , to go abroad for short excursions along the shores of the bay , or into the woods with his rifle , which , together with his valued sword , he was gratified to find , had been carefully preserved and brought along with him to that place . 
Up to this time he had taken but little thought about leaving his pleasant quarters . 
He was growing restless , indeed , with his returning vigor of health ; but it was far less any matter of public than private concernment that caused his uneasiness . 
It was the mysteries attending his late singular capture , connected , as he now more than ever felt them somehow to be , with those still enveloping the fate of his long lost Madian , which now chiefly occupied his mind , and which he was intently but vainly casting about him for the means of solving . 
Independent of this object of his solicitude , he had formed no definite plans in regard to his own future movements : for , smarting , as he was , under a keen sense of neglect and contumely shown him by the colonial authorities , as his only reward for all his services and sufferings , he felt little inclined to trouble them any further with his presence ; and he was beginning to make up his mind to settle down somewhere among the quiet people with whom his last lot seemed so strangely to have been cast . 
But events were now at hand which were suddenly to rouse him from his indifference and change the whole current of his thoughts towards a happier and more important consummation . 
The Quakeress had the week before despatched her son to apprise the doctor of his patient 's rapid recovery ; and she had been for some days wondering why her communication had not led , as she had understood it would , to visits from the friends of the latter ; when , one evening after dark , as the family were all sitting within , chatting together , they were startled by a loud and heavy rapping at the door . 
`` That must be a rough customer , '' said Willis , rising , `` let me go , Mrs. Minturn , and ascertain what the man would have . '' 
Accordingly he proceeded to the outer door , carelessly threw it open , and came to a stand on the threshold ; when he discovered the outlines of a stout , burly man sitting on a horse before him , but there was not light enough for any personal recognitions , and for a moment there was a dead pause on both sides . 
The silence , however , was quickly broken by the new comer , who , in a doubtful , grum , heavy tone , said -- `` Can you inform me , friend , of the whereabouts of a certain runaway dead man , once considerable of a creature , passing under the name of Vane Willis ? '' 
hesitatingly asked Willis , without replying to the rough , unceremonious question . 
`` This is Captain Mosely from Massachusetts , Mrs. Minturn , '' said Willis as he ushered him into the room . 
When these word-tokens of mutual , amicable , and happy feeling , had been thus pleasantly exchanged , Willis and Mosely retired to the private apartment of the former , for the double purpose of more freedom of conversation , and of relieving the females of their restraining presence during the hospitable preparations of the kitchen . 
`` Now , Captain Mosely , '' said Willis , as the two became seated , `` now for the news from the colonies -- the progress of the war , and all . 
`` Why , do n't you know , Willis ? 
`` The news , I am sorry to tell you , Willis , goes to make up a sad and gloomy tale . 
In short , matters look rather squally for us , I can assure you , friend Willis . 
`` Friend Willis , '' said the Quakeress , gently throwing open the door , `` there is a youngerly red man here , who desires to see thee ; but both of thee had better come out now , as our supper is nearly ready . '' 
`` That is friend Willis , '' said the Quakeress , pointing to the younger officer , while directing her words to a young Indian , who stood near the outerly entrance , demurely looking down upon the floor ; but who , thereupon , with a keen glance at the person indicated , advanced a step , and held out a letter . 
Captain Willis , with a look of lively interest came forward , took the letter , at once opened it , and , after glancing over the contents , and hesitating a moment , read aloud , `` As soon as Captain Willis is able to travel , which I trust is now , his late captor , or prisoner , or nurse in the woods , would be gratified to see him at Providence . 
by the George , Willis , '' exclaimed Mosely , slapping the other on the shoulder , `` in that short and sweet epistle , I see the spot where the light is to come from out of that cloud of mist and mystery , we were just bothering about . '' 
`` But art thou to leave us , then , to-morrow morning , friend Willis ? '' 
After the young officer , who , it will be needless to say , was as much delighted as astonished at this unexpected denouement , had received the congratulations on his recovery now warmly proffered by Colonel Southworth , as we should now call the mysterious stranger heretofore passing under the name of Crocker , and , in his own turn , expressed his deep gratitude for that care and attention of the other to which he had doubtless been indebted for his life , and of which the bestowal had been to him such a matter of mystery -- after these gratified words and thoughts had been exchanged among this happy and interestingly situated trio , Madian turned to her father and said -- `` Father , I had promised to give Captain Willis the particulars of my secret flight from Plymouth last summer , and of my subsequent adventures , whereof , unwisely I have since feared , I kept him in the dark ; but as myadventures would be mainly embraced in a relation of yours , which he will also wish to hear , I will , if you please , appoint you spokesman for us both . '' 
asked Willis , with a look of doubt and surprise . 
exclaimed Willis starting -- `` kidnappers , Colonel Southworth ? 
enquired Willis , anxiously . 
I , on my part , '' he added , drawing forth a document , and with it approaching , and lightly rapping on the shoulder of the wondering Madian , `` have here a small one , of which I beg this fair and noble maiden 's acceptance , merited as it is everyway , and particularly so by her many weeks ' devoted attentions in nursing and aiding to restore our gallant friend Willis here to life and usefulness . '' 
What does he say ? '' 
`` I have no answer to make , '' responded Willis , with emotion . 
The next moment , she threw open the door ; when her eye falling on the questionable figure she was looking for , standing in the path with face averted towards Willis and Madian , then just coming into view , she stopped short on the threshold , and gazed out in the utmost perplexity and astonishment . 
she continued , now catching a view of Willis . 
But there was no show of any such questionable characters there to confirm it ; albeit , there wasone there who shouldbe held as a criminal by the whole household of faith -- I mean that scoffing Captain Mosely , who so audaciously obstructed the course of the law here last summer , in the matter of the contumacious Vane Willis , and who then again afterwards , broke away so offensively from service , at the time I made my great prayer for the strengthening of the army . '' 
Are you sure it was he you saw there , Dummer ? '' 
At this juncture , a slight bustle at the door instantly drew all eyes in that direction ; when the brawny figure of Captain Mosely was seen boldly pushing forward into the room , followed by Captain Willis , and another and unknown personage , with a slouched hat on , drawn down low over his eyes , an Indian blanket wrapped around his shoulders , and brought up so high and close on each side of his face , as , with the hat , wholly to conceal his features from the view of all gazers . 
The two officers had removed their hats on entering , but the other kept his on , and still retained it , together with his blanket muffler , in place , after he became seated ; exhibiting , as he sat with low , drooping head , both in outward rig and deportment , the general appearance of some sullen Indian prisoner , as he was taken to be by most of the spectators . 
And here is the man , sitting on my right , so that his saintship yonder , the devil helping , may now work his will on him , '' added the rough soldier , motioning carelessly with one hand to Willis , and pointing significantly with the other to Deacon Mudgridge . 
And , wherefore , I didmove in the matter of the reported pestilent Quakerism of the man , Vane Willis , even unto the pointing him out for the action of the authorities . 
And I am bold to say , it was a daring offence , and one arguing a guiltiness of the charge , for him to put them at defiance in the contumacious way and manner he and his confederate did , on that disgraceful occasion . '' 
On the contrary , I deem it a duty to say here openly , that since witnessing his gallant conduct in the taking of the Narraganset fort , and then investigating for myself his previous course and character , I have felt an increasing conviction of the injustice that has been done him . 
But the error , I trust , will now soon be atoned , by conferring on him the rank and commission , which shall not only make amends for past neglect , but induce him to continue his valuable services for the future . '' 
You now see what I was after , do n't you , Willis ? '' 
Captain Willis who had speedily wed , after the great denouement we have described , and retired with his blooming bride to her gift farm in Rhode Island , had been offered , before leaving town , a commission for raising and leading one company into the field . 
This honor he had declined , ostensively on the ground of his unwillingness to move with a force so inadequate to the emergency . 
But he was not to be let off so . 
