Speak , or an -- thou diest not -- my name is not Hugues de Coucy ! '' 
Then thou art no more man of Hugues de Coucy ! 
Night had no terror -- not even such a night as this -- for one like Hugues de Coucy , when his high valor was spurred to its mettle by a high purpose . 
It is thine old friend Hugues de Coucy , whose ransom thou didst pay , in past years , to Ferrand , earl of Flanders ! 
but his awful war-cry was cut short , for the Red Bastard , conspicuous by his crimson panoply and dauntless bearing , had singled out De Coucy , and charged him with lance in rest with singular prowess ; but though he charged his lance with perfect skill , striking the very centre of the knight 's vizor , and shivering the stout ashpole to atoms up to the very grasp , De Coucy no more wavered in his saddle , than he had done for the buffet of a lady 's fan ! 
While his lanced-head pierced sheer through shield and plastron , corselet and shirt of mail , and spitting the marauder through and through came out at his back-piece , the shaft snapping short some two feet from the champion 's gauntlet ! 
though slain outright , the routier sat his horse stiffly ; and , as the knight 's charger still swept on , he was in the act of passing Hugues , when the latter , not perceiving that he was slain , stood up in his stirrups and smote him such a blow on the head-piece with the truncheon of his broken lance , that all the fastenings of the vizor burst , the avantaille flew open , and the hideous face of the Red Routier was displayed , livid with the hues of death , and writhing with the anguish of the parting struggle ! 
De Coucy 's followers had fared as well as he , for two of the marauders , the antagonists of Clement Mareuil and old Matthieu , were killed in the first shock ; but the priest shivered his spear fairly with Raoul and passing by him unharmed , darted into the beechwood , and escaped . 
and , wheeling down like lightning through both avenues , thirty of forty savage-looking , irregular horse drove , with their spears in rest , against the little party of De Coucy . 
-- I , Hugues de Coucy , yield me to such a slave as thou art -- to a murtherer of old men in cold blood -- a violator of ladies -- a torturer of babes and suckling ! 
The latter comprised the miserable Marguerite half rescued only to be again enthralled with her two serving-women ; the old merchant , Arnold Morillon , and the stout baron Hugues de Coucy . 
Six of the routiers had been slain , beside the Rouge Batard ; four of the number by the hand of Hugues ! 
Speak , man , where is Sir Hugues de Coucy ? '' 
Hugues de Coucy yield him a prisoner to a churl -- a base and cruel robber ! 
`` I did not say so , Ermold , '' answered the old man , in a broken voice , `` sooner would I bite out my tongue with my teeth , that it should tell dishonor of the Coucy . 
Sir Hugues slew three men , at three blows , outright with his two-handed sword ; and I and the rest did our best -- but the roan horse was thrust into the eye with a spear-point , and our lord felled to the pummel with a mace -- and Clement and Raoul were slain in a moment -- and I was badly hurt , for my horse went down rolling over me , when it was a minute ere I could get loose . 
And ere I did so , Sir Hugues was fast bound ; and so , when I saw that his life was safe , and that there was no chance of rescue -- knowing right well that they would stick the ` squire like a pig , though they might spare the knight -- I crawled into the thicket while the robbers were all thronging round our lord ; but ere I had got off a spear 's length , the gray priest , who was hurrying back to join his comrades , caught me fast by the throat -- but I put my dagger into him , up to the dudgeon hilt , under his corslet rim . 
-- the tenth day hence -- too late for any purpose , '' answered the old man ; `` then must we on to Brussels ; though I trow the churl burghers will scarce unbuckle their fat bags to pay Sir Hugues ' ransom , much less take bow and spear to save him . '' 
Besides , it is keen steel , and not red gold , that must be ransom for De Coucy . 
We must fall in and rescue him by the strong hand . '' 
`` Besides , '' he added , `` it were foul sin and shame , to suffer such a knight as Hugues de Coucy to linger in such durance without blow stricken in the cause . 
De Coucy to the rescue and charge home ! '' 
A stream of gore was pouring from the old man 's vizor , and from a dozen rents in his plate armor , and he so staggered as he leaped to the ground , that he had well nigh fallen ; yet he rushed up to Hugues de Coucy , and with his dagger wrenched out the rivets from his manacles and fetters , and tore them from the limbs of his loved lord . 
Then he sank down upon his knees and clasped the knight 's legs with his aged arms , and wet his feet with honest , loyal tears . 
`` Thou art free -- thou art free , '' he cried , `` my master ! 
-- and with the word he stooped and took the old man 's sword out of his hand , and striking him slightly on the shoulder , he continued , `` for with thine own sword -- nor ever was a better ! 
Rise up , good knight and gallant -- Sir Matthieu de Montmesnil , '' and he raised him to his feet as he spoke , and opened his vizor , and kissed his ashy brow . 
a knight -- and by the honored hand of the Coucy ! 
Bury my sword beside me -- farewell -- De Coucy -- and forget not old -- old Matthieu ! '' 
Faint , however , was the impression produced by the bright sunshine , or the bracing gale , or the continued melody with which the woods were vocal , on the spirits of the stout champion , Hugues de Coucy , as he rode onward through the woody passes , attended only by the page Ermold , deep sorrow brooding on his bold lineaments and broad , fair brow . 
He was sheathed once again from head to foot in his own splendid panoply , which had been won back from the robbers , perfect and uninjured ; he backed , too , as before , the beautiful gray Arab Termagant ; but the three stout and valiant soldiers , who had so lately followed him in all the pride and power of noble manhood , now lay beneath the frozen earth , cold , voiceless , deaf -- even to the soul-stirring trumpets ! 
No word spoke Hugues , except at times a call to Ermold , `` in God 's name to scourge on that lazy garron , else should night fall and find them in the forest . '' 
For once no mighty discrepance occurred between the promise and performance ; for scarcely was Sir Hugues ' appetite appeased , before the tramping of horses in the court , under the windows , summoned him from his seat to inspect the dealer 's cattle . 
This worthy , stimulated by the hope of high prices , and pretty well satisfied , by the great reputation of the count of Tankarville for an accomplished cavalier , that any of the ordinary tricks of the trade would be on this occasion thrown away , had brought out in the first instance the flower of his stables , resolving merely to atone for this deviation from ordinary rules by demanding at least twice the value of each particular animal . 
It was a tall and powerful black horse , with a white spot on the face , and one white foot behind ; and , as the practised judgment of Sir Hugues at once determined , had no small intermixture of Barbary or Arab blood with the best Flemish strain . 
The price demanded for this charger , although after he had nearly kicked out the brains of one groom , and had actually pulled a second out of his saddle with his teeth , and shaken him as a terrier-dog would a rat , the dealer admitted him to be a vicious devil -- which trait , however , he affected to consider as an advantage , rather than the reverse to one so famed for horsemanship as the sieur de Coucy -- was even for that age stupendous . 
Without seeming , however , to consider this , Hugues ordered the black horse to be set aside , and proceeded to select a second by no means inferior in blood or beauty , though somewhat slighter made and lower than the first , which he judged fit to carry Ermold in his new character of esquire . 
While he was yet engaged in examining the chestnut , the landlord touched him on the shoulder and presented three tall fellows , whom he declared to be honest lads , well known to himself two of whom had seen some service , and were eager to be admitted to the preferment of following a lord so famous . 
`` That they will , that they will , good fellow , '' answered Sir Hugues ; `` never thou fear it ! 
he continued , turning to the younger man . 
`` I will , Sir Hugues , I will , '' he answered humbly ; `` for I am not afraid ; though , to say truth , a man may ride well , and yet not be a match for yon black devil . 
As he finished speaking , he too crossed the yard , and succeeded in mounting the formidable horse , which immediately resorted to its old tricks , displaying no small degree of activity and skill in controlling the first plunges . 
As if , however , he had been but irritated by his rider 's efforts to subdue him , snorting and foaming till his black , glossy limbs were spotted as if with snow-flakes , the mighty horse dashed to and fro , scattering the grooms like sheep , and at length freeing his head by a violent effort , and yerking out his heels a dozen times in succession , hurled the youth Francon from his back , like a quoit from the arm of a strong player . 
Thou hast done well , and wilt do better yet , I warrant me , ere thou hast followed the Coucy 's banner a twelve-month . 
Then he stepped up to Hugues , and took the bridle of his destrier , and transmitted to the grooms of the hostlery , his lord 's commands to clean and rub down his new purchase thoroughly , and arm him with the full horse-armor and housings , as speedily as might be . 
`` Well spoken , both of ye , '' he answered , `` well spoken , and I thank ye for it ; and if ye be true followers to the Coucy , trust well that he to you will be true lord and loyal ; and for the rest of God 's truth , I have seen some service , and , so the good saints prosper me , shall see more ere I die ; and if ye list to lay lance in the rest among the foremost , ye shall not long lack opportunity , nor , it may be , advancement . 
It was not , however , till after much chaffering with the maquignon , and much consultation with each other , and much more examination than the knight had judged necessary before choosing his own destrier , that they pitched upon two powerful and well-bred horses , which meeting Sir Hugues ' approbation , were set apart with those which he had already selected . 
This would have been at that day , in any other state of Europe , a task of no small difficulty , but even at an earlier date than that of which we write , the intelligent and industrious Flemings had been in the habit of using something analogous to bills of exchange ; the invention of which is variously attributed to the Jews , the merchants of the low country , and the traders of the Italian republics ; and to one so famous as Hugues de Coucy , there would have been no difficulty in raising even a larger sum than he required among the opulent goldsmiths and jewellers , who were in those days the bankers of Brussels . 
The sun was still high above the western horizon , although it was long past noon , so rapidly had De Coucy 's men , eager to gain the good opinion of a lord at the same time so liberal , and , if report spoke true , so strict in the maintenance of discipline , got through the task allotted to them , when the baron 's party issued forth by a different gate from that which had admitted him , into the great plain beyond the city-walls . 
The trooper looked bewildered for a few seconds , as if he were at a loss to comprehend De Coucy 's meaning ; and then taking courage , asked , `` How , my lord ? 
They have harassed its merchants sorely these past years ; and now , seigneur -- '' `` And now , '' returned Hugues , `` thou must guide me , as straight as thou canst ride , to the chateau of Verneuil . 
exclaimed the knight , a deep red flush crossing his brow , and passing instantly away , so as to leave him paler than before . 
So much the more need then of speed to rescue her , '' he added , muttering to himself in a low voice . 
`` Dismount , then , all , '' cried Hugues , `` for we shall need each spark of fire that we can keep alight in their keen spirits . 
`` I doubt it not -- I doubt it not at all , '' replied De Coucy ; `` but as we shall find neither English ale , nor yet black German beer here in the forest , we must make red wine do for it ; and hark ye , Giles and Francon , though the beer suit the horses better , I doubt not but the men will find the grape-juice full as pleasant . '' 
and with the words he followed his companions to the stable , whither they had already led the horses , while Hugues , who , for the last three days had tasted little rest , entered the inn to seek such brief refreshment as mine host of the Bald-faced Stag might offer . 
A loud vociferous barking was set up by a dozen of deep-mouthed mastiffs , as the little band of De Coucy rode clanging and clattering round the hamlet , and many a male and female head was thrust out of the latticed casements to note the character of the intruders , and was as speedily withdrawn , reassured by the appearance of the baron clad in his splendid surcoat . 
Before , however , the shrill flourish of his trumpets had ceased to wake the slumbering echoes , De Coucy shouted loudly , `` Ho ! 
'T is I -- I , Hugues of Tankarville . '' 
`` Dally not , slave , with me , '' shouted De Coucy , shaking his fist angrily at the man , who now showed himself half armed upon the esplanade above the barbacan ; `` dally not , slave , with me , but do my bidding ! 
What reply would have come from the warder can not be known , for ere he could reply the blaze of several torches were visible upon the ramparts , and in a few moments Hugues might clearly see upon the gate-house over against the barbacan a female figure , wrapped in a hooded mantle furred deeply with rich ermine , with several armed attendants , and an old gray-haired seneschal beside her . 
Low bowed Hugues de Coucy till the plumes of his waving crest were mingled in strange contrast with the long , thin mane of his coal-black charger ; and when he raised himself from that deep obeisance , he spoke with a voice , rich and clear and manly , yet soft the while and soothing as the tones of the southern lute . 
`` I pray you , '' he said , `` beautiful and gentle ladye , I pray you of your courtesy aud charity , open your gates to one , who , for so gentle deed , will ever rest your debtor -- I , Hugues , baron and count of Tankarville . '' 
`` Lady ; '' replied the Coucy , `` lady , I do beseech you ope to me , and by my faith , my knighthood , and mine honor ! 
Meantime , the heavy grate of the barbacan was raised , and the wide leaves of the gate flung open , and Hugues rode in bowing his lofty crest beneath the pointed arch , followed by his stout men-at-arms and his young spirited esquire . 
The moment he had entered the dark vault , the stately warrior leaped to the ground , and turning short to one of the men who had admitted him , and who had of course heard all the previous parley , `` We have no time at all to lose , '' he said , `` good fellow ; so run down thou and summon all the serfs of the hamlets , and all the freemen -- if there be any in the place -- bound to man-service ; bid them make haste as they would live and prosper , for Talebardin and his routiers will be upon them ere an hour , and ye have room enough within , I trow . 
`` I , too , dear lady , '' answered the Coucy , `` I , too , must plead a vow , and pray your pardon also for the semblance of discourtesy . 
This done at length , for Gabrielle , convinced after much instance , ceased to remonstrate , Hugues took command of all the outworks , and , having placed his little band -- little , indeed ! 
since he found in the place only six men-at-arms and five stout serving-men , to whom were added eight or ten half-armed vassals from the village , on all the points of vantage -- he joined his own men in the barbacan , resolved to charge once with the lance before he should be shut up within walls of stone , and sat there motionless on his tall war-horse , until the stars paled in the azure heavens , awaiting the approach of these fell desperadoes . 
None but a practised ear could have distinguished then , the character of that far sound , but scarcely had it been audible a second before Sir Hugues de Coucy turning half round , toward Ermold , in his steel saddle , said in a clear , strong whisper ; `` Lo ! 
and with the words , he drew down his own avantaille and clasped it firmly to the beaver ; then , gathering his reins up with the left , and lowering the point of his long lance that it should not strike the groinings of the barbacan , he rode forth cautiously , accompanied by his young squire , and the two men-at-arms ; before he left the arch , however , he called to the warder bidding him see the chains of the portcullis clear , and have his yeomen ready to make fast the gates at once . 
`` Be steady now , '' he said , `` and forget not that deliberate valor is worth ten times as much as headlong rashness . 
While speaking , he had drawn up his little band in line , having Giles Ivernois on his right hand , and Ermold in the centre , the other Flemish trooper holding the extreme left , close to the high fence of an orchard . 
Scarce had the knight of Tankarville completed his arrangements , before the loud , deep note of the ban cloche , succeeded by its continuous and deafening clangor , announced the presence of Talebardin and his routiers upon the village green , although they were not as yet visible to Hugues and his party , in consequence of the cottages and gardens of the hamlet covering their advance . 
Directly afterward a shaft or two were shot against the walls from the covert afforded by the scattering groups of fruit-trees on the esplanade , but so well did the archers on the barbacan perform their duty , pouring in shot of long and cross-bows , with ever and anon a huge steel-headed beam launched from the mighty mangonel , that the routiers in that quarter fell back at once without so much as discovering the band of De Coucy , which if it had not been cut off , must have been desperately endangered , at the least if the marauders had made good their charge , and taken a position midway between the barbacan and the knight 's party . 
No more was necessary to set De Coucy on his guard ; `` Now ! '' 
he exclaimed , `` now ! 
couching his lance as he did so , and pricking the flanks of his black charger with the spur . 
As soon as this formidable personage descried the knight of Coucy , he shouted something to his nearest comrade , the import of which was drowned by the thunder of the horses ' hoofs and the din of the plate-coats ; but it was easy to perceive what must have been the meaning of the cry , for spurring out a little way before his rank , he passaged quickly to his right , his comrade making the same movement to the left , and then reined back immediately into the line , placing himself , as the result of this manœuvre directly opposite to Hugues . 
Talebard Talebardin bore him like a man ; his spear-head struck full on the fess-point of De Coucy 's shield , and bored it through and through , but turned quite blunt and edgeless as it encountered the fine temper of his Milan plastron , the tough ash staff bursting into a hundred splinters up to the very grasp of his gauntlet . 
The like success attended each one of the Coucy 's followers ; Giles Ivernois ' antagonist went down , his throat transfixed above the gorget 's rim , that the steel-point came out , all stained and gory , under the edge of his cerveilliere . 
The first blow of his sweeping broadsword fell on the barded neck of a stout war-horse , and breaking the strong plates , clove half way through the neck , and laid both steed and rider prostrate on the earth ; the second drove in the helmet on the head of another , and fracturing his skull , slew him upon the instant ; the third dashed down a third of his opponents , but broke the weapon to the hilt , and left the warrior for the moment weaponless Still the esquire was extricated from the press and rescued , and bidding him ride in as sharply as he might , Hugues stopped a moment to loosen his mace from the saddle-bow , then galloped after him , leaving the routiers all in disarray , gathering up their dead , and succording their wounded . 
Just at that time , however , the archers on the barbacan who had been quite unable to loose a shaft at all during the hand to hand encounter , seemingly overlooked the count , or if they did not overlook him , mistook him for one of the routiers , and discharged a whole flight of arrows . 
This , as it seemed , however , did not satisfy them , for although did Coucy shout with all the power of his lungs , shaking his clinched fist angrily at the men on the walls , they followed up their volley by bending the great mangonel against him , and before Giles could hinder them , who had run up to the esplanade above the barbacan , to pitch his master 's lance upon the wall , they turned the winch , and the huge engine was discharged . 
Meantime , the robbers had recovered altogether from the temporary disorder into which they had been thrown , and rushed on in a body , Talebard , who had regained his feet , running bare-headed in front of all the horses to seize the prostrate champion , nor did it appear possible at the moment that any timely rescue could be made ; for Ermold and the others within the archway of the barbacan could not discover what was to do without , and those on the esplanade were too far off to give effectual assistance Giles Ivernois , indeed , rushed down the steep stone stair , taking three steps at every clanking stride ; but he would have arrived too late , for undismayed by the archery which was aimed at them from above , killing one man outright and wounding several others , the routiers were within three paces of De Coucy , who was beginning to move faintly , as though he were recovering his consciousness , when a man leaped the palings of the orchard and interposed himself between the baron and the ruffians . 
The din , as it appeared , restored De Coucy to his senses on the instant , for he leaped to his feet , raised his vizor , and wiped away the blood from his beard and mustaches with his mailed hand , exclaiming as he did so , `` Where am I ? 
`` A serf , beau sire , '' -- the seneschal at once interrupted him -- `` A mere Jacques Bonhomme -- an ill-conditioned , insolent serf -- if one ever was on the lands of Verneuil . 
`` Nay , nay , not so , good friend , '' replied the baron ; `` De Coucy deals not so with his preserver ; '' but , as he spoke , the din of axes plied fiercely on the outer gate fell on his ears , and he perceived at once that a lodgment must have already been effected by the routiers at the wall foot . 
he shouted . 
and he rushed up the stairs , leaving his rescuer forgotten to the mercies of the seneschal , who thrust him instantly into the dungeon of the castle , promising that he should hang upon the morrow ! 
The drawbridge they carried , almost unopposed , and a dozen of the bravest establishing themselves under the deep arch of the ballium , where they were sheltered from all means of annoyance by the besieged men-at-arms , commenced thundering on the portcullis bars , with that din which had aroused the Coucy to the full possession of his faculties , while the remainder arrayed in line on the farther verge of the moat , kept up so incessant a volley of cloth-yard arrows , many of them being English archers , free companions who had of late become marauders , that not a man could show himself upon the battlements without being made a target for a dozen of forkheaded shafts . 
Three or four of the light-armed vassals , unprotected by proof armor , had been shot dead or mortally wounded at the first volley , and the earliest care of De Coucy was to withdraw them entirely from the front , under orders to hold themselves sheltered perfectly behind the coignes and angles of the battlements , and to shoot as sharply as they might through the crenelles with their cross-bows , but on no account to expose a limb to the tremendous shot of that underring archery . 
Himself , confident in his panoply , and absolutely dauntless by disposition , he strode forward to the verge of the esplanade and leaned far over the bartizan , so as to command a view of what was in process below , exposing himself to the cloth-yard arrows with a perfect contempt of death . 
Four or five of the steel-points struck on his corslet , and bounded back blunted into the moat ; but one , more deadly aimed , found an air-hole in his avantaille , and , the elastic bars opening a little to its violent impulse , penetrated till the steel barbs were wedged in the narrow orifice , where it stood fixed , but not till it had deeply cut the flesh on his left temple , and drawn a long stream of scarlet blood , which flowed out through the orifices of the vizor , and stained his bright gorget with its fearful hue . 
A wild , triumphant cheer from the banditti hailed the appearance of De Coucy 's gore ; for it was rarely that a knight 's panoply of Spanish or Italian steel was pierced by any lighter weapon than the couched lance , or severed unless by the sheer sweep of the two-handed sword , or the contusing blow of battle-axe or mace , and they hailed the champion 's wound as a proof that he was not , at the best , invincible . 
and forth sprang the great champion , De Coucy , to consummate the ruin . 
Under the base of a huge pinnacle of wrought freestone that crowned the right hand buttress of the keep he thrust the point of his ponderous lever , bearing upon it with the whole concentrated force of his practised powers and great bodily weight , that the vast mass rocked and tottered . 
At the same instant , prompt to comprehend and further every hint or movement of his captain , Giles Ivernois snatched up a gigantic sledge-hammer , part also of the apparatus of the trebuchet , and swinging it round his head delivered such a blow on the top of the pinnacle , just in the point of time when the knight unheaved its base , that it went down headlong , and , had not one of his comrades caught him round the body , the stout man-at-arms would have followed the falling mass , precipitated by the impetus of his own mighty effort . 
Ten minutes had scarcely elapsed , since the Coucy had rushed , clanking in his plate and mail , up the steps to the esplanade , though it has occupied more time to relate than it did to enact the events crowded into so brief a space ; and now he rushed down again with Ermold de Marcy and Giles Ivernois , and Francon Von Voorhis at his heels , resolute to rescue his prisoners let what might come of it . 
It might be , that they only hoped to die by the soldiers ' weapon ; it might be that they yet had a thought to master the Coucy , and so to win the castle . 
who has dared do this thing , or who am I that living man should do the Coucy this dishonor ! '' 
replied the Coucy . 
Go find the chatelaine de Verneuil , Ermold de Marcy ; greet her from me as from the count of Tankarville , not from Sir Hugues de Coucy , mark me ! 
He even affected a smile , as the champion approached him -- `` Well , beau sire de Coucy , '' he said half insolently , `` I would have held you to ransom when I had you in my power ; and I now look to you for the like courtesy at your hands . 
Quick , however , as he was , both of intent and action , there was one quicker yet than he ; for , as he darted to the sheer descent , with the end of the halter trailing behind him over the platform , the Coucy set his mailed foot on it , half arresting it as it ran out ; and , even before the robber took his deathspring , he had seized the slack in his hands and flung it round the flag-staff , where it was instantly secured by the men-at-arms . 
Then the knight received the chain into his hands , and uncovering his head , made answer : `` I , Hugues count de Tankarville , knight of St. Denys , and the Holy Ghost , peer of France , noble of the German , do gratefully accept the thanks of the chatelaine , and this her homage and transfer of her castle and lands of Verneuil , with all droits and dues and services thereunto appertaining -- and more especially this handsel of the same , this man Henri le Noir , and these ten roods of ground now set off to his occupation , and this cabin he inhabits , and him and these I take and accept from her and hers unto me and mine , to have and to hold , to give or to sell , to head or to hang , as to us shall seem good for ever . 
Then he stooped down toward the serf , who was kneeling at his feet , and taking both his hands into his own -- `` Henri le Noir , '' he asked solemnly , `` although you may not contest it , seeing that it is lawfully performed and duly , do you accept the transfer from the chatelaine of Verneuil , your lady , to me Count Hugues of Tankarville , your lord , from hers to be mine so long as you shall live , to be true servant to me and mine till death . '' 
But now as the Coucy noted the distant horse-hoof , which seemed to be drowned to the ears of the marauders by the nearer clang which was approaching them , then he conceived the idea that reinforcements to the robbers and relief to himself were at once approaching , and in this he was confirmed , when his acute sense of hearing , long sharpened by experience of every warlike stratagem , perceived that the rider , whoever he was , had left the beaten track , probably from fearing its betrayal of his approach , and was making his way through the wood-paths , where the mossy soil gave no tidings to ears that were not awake to particular suspicion . 
He now summoned the garrison in form , with all the frankness and not a little of the courtesy of a soldier -- it was he whom De Coucy had remarked from the first onslaught as bearing no disgraceful emblems of butchery or bloodshed , beyond the harness of a man-at-arms , with the green plume and the cognizance of the white dragon on his shield , by which he easily distinguished him as a Saxon outlaw , said to be a bastard of high descent , known far and wide through France as a free rider by the title of the green esquire , a soldier of much renown in the field , who had never tainted his fair fame by any deeds of cruelty or treason , and whose worst censure was that he had at times associated with those incarnate fiends , Talebard Talebardin and the Rouge Batard . 
He now addressing De Coucy with deep reverence , and something almost of humility in his demeanor , announced to him that he had just received the tidings of the approach of Aymerigot Marcel with such a reinforcement of men-at-arms , besides ladders and military engines , as would place the garrison entirely at their mercy . 
thou shalt die as a soldier under shield by the lance of De Coucy , and not as a robber by the hangman and the cord ! '' 
The vassals and the half-armed serving-men mustered upon the ramparts , but in the court-yard champed and pawed twelve powerful war-horses , backed by twelve champions all in steel , with De Coucy at the head , his broad banner displayed , and his lance-points erected -- while four stout grooms manned the chains of the pont-levis , and stood to the bars of the great gate . 
Down went the drawbridge in their front , and forth , lance in rest , banner displayed , and trumpet sounding to the charge , forth came De Coucy and his men -- `` St. Paul ! 
Aymerigot wheeled with his own band to meet the lord of Verneuil ; the green esquire charged his lance gallantly and well , and met De Coucy fair in full career . 
His lance caught in the bars of De Coucy 's casque unhelmed him , but the knight 's spear-point struck the free-rider 's shield on the chief , bored through shield , plastron , and cuirass , and breaking in his bosom , hurled him dead to the earth . 
But the Coucy 's charger , wearied and overdone , went down untouched , and rolling over its lord 's right thigh , pinned him to the ground , that he could not arise , and the next moment Aymerigot and his party , unable to endure the shock of the lances of Verneuil , passed over him in disarray and disorder , the brigand chief bringing up the rear . 
Pray for the soul of De Coucy ! 
