Woe betide the recreant housemaid who is found to have been listening to the honey of a sweetheart in the Regent 's park , instead of the soul-stirring evening discourse of Mr. Slope . 
In such matters Mrs. Proudie allows herself to be often guided by that eloquent preacher , the Rev. Mr. Slope , and as Dr. Proudie is guided by his wife , it necessarily follows that the eminent man we have named has obtained a good deal of control over Dr. Proudie in matters concerning religion . 
Mr. Slope 's only preferment has hitherto been that of reader and preacher in a London district church : and on the consecration of his friend the new bishop , he readily gave this up to undertake the onerous but congenial duties of domestic chaplain to his lordship . 
Mr. Slope , however , on his first introduction must not be brought before the public at the tail of a chapter . 
Of the Rev. Mr. Slope 's parentage I am not able to say much . 
I have heard it asserted that he is lineally descended from that eminent physician who assisted at the birth of Mr. T. Shandy , and that in early years he added an `` e '' to his name , for the sake of euphony , as other great men have done before him . 
In truth , Mr. Slope having made a declaration of affection , afterwards withdrew it on finding that the doctor had no immediate worldly funds with which to endow his child ; and it may easily be conceived that Miss Proudie , after such an announcement on his part , was not readily disposed to receive any further show of affection . 
On the appointment of Dr. Proudie to the bishopric of Barchester , Mr. Slope 's views were in truth somewhat altered . 
Bishops , even though they be poor , can provide for clerical children , and Mr. Slope began to regret that he had not been more disinterested . 
He no sooner heard the tidings of the doctor 's elevation , than he recommenced his siege , not violently , indeed , but respectfully , and at a distance . 
Olivia Proudie , however , was a girl of spirit : she had the blood of two peers in her veins , and , better still , she had another lover on her books ; so Mr. Slope sighed in vain ; and the pair soon found it convenient to establish a mutual bond of inveterate hatred . 
Though very fond of Mr. Slope herself , she had never conceived the idea that either of her daughters would become so , and remembering their high birth and social advantages , expected for them matches of a different sort . 
Mr. Slope soon comforted himself with the reflection , that as he had been selected as chaplain to the bishop , it would probably be in his power to get the good things in the bishop 's gift , without troubling himself with the bishop 's daughter ; and he found himself able to endure the pangs of rejected love . 
He , therefore , he , Mr. Slope , would in effect be bishop of Barchester . 
Such was his resolve ; and , to give Mr. Slope his due , he had both courage and spirit to bear him out in his resolution . 
He knew that he should have a hard battle to fight , for the power and patronage of the see would be equally coveted by another great mind -- Mrs. Proudie would also choose to be bishop of Barchester . 
Mr. Slope , however , flattered himself that he could out-manoeuvre the lady . 
She must live much in London , while he would always be on the spot . 
She would necessarily remain ignorant of much , while he would know everything belonging to the diocese . 
At first , doubtless , he must flatter and cajole , perhaps yield , in some things ; but he did not doubt of ultimate triumph . 
If all other means failed , he could join the bishop against his wife , inspire courage into the unhappy man , lay an axe to the root of the woman 's power , and emancipate the husband . 
Such were his thoughts as he sat looking at the sleeping pair in the railway carriage , and Mr. Slope is not the man to trouble himself with such thoughts for nothing . 
He is possessed of more than average abilities , and is of good courage . 
Though he can stoop to fawn , and stoop low indeed , if need be , he has still within him the power to assume the tyrant ; and with the power he has certainly the wish . 
His acquirements are not of the highest order , but such as they are they are completely under control , and he knows the use of them . 
He is gifted with a certain kind of pulpit eloquence , not likely indeed to be persuasive with men , but powerful with the softer sex . 
In his sermons he deals greatly in denunciations , excites the minds of his weaker hearers with a not unpleasant terror , and leaves an impression on their minds that all mankind are in a perilous state , and all womankind too , except those who attend regularly to the evening lectures in Baker Street . 
Mr. Slope is tall , and not ill made . 
His feet and hands are large , as has ever been the case with all his family , but he has a broad chest and wide shoulders to carry off these excrescences , and on the whole his figure is good . 
His countenance , however , is not specially prepossessing . 
His hair is lank , and of a dull pale reddish hue . 
It is always formed into three straight lumpy masses , each brushed with admirable precision , and cemented with much grease ; two of them adhere closely to the sides of his face , and the other lies at right angles above them . 
He wears no whiskers , and is always punctiliously shaven . 
His face is nearly of the same colour as his hair , though perhaps a little redder : it is not unlike beef , -- beef , however , one would say , of a bad quality . 
His forehead is capacious and high , but square and heavy , and unpleasantly shining . 
His mouth is large , though his lips are thin and bloodless ; and his big , prominent , pale brown eyes inspire anything but confidence . 
His nose , however , is his redeeming feature : it is pronounced straight and well-formed ; though I myself should have liked it better did it not possess a somewhat spongy , porous appearance , as though it had been cleverly formed out of a red coloured cork . 
I never could endure to shake hands with Mr. Slope . 
A cold , clammy perspiration always exudes from him , the small drops are ever to be seen standing on his brow , and his friendly grasp is unpleasant . 
Such is Mr. Slope -- such is the man who has suddenly fallen into the midst of Barchester Close , and is destined there to assume the station which has heretofore been filled by the son of the late bishop . 
But not as a mere associate for these does Mr. Slope travel down to Barchester with the bishop and his wife . 
He intends to be , if not their master , at least the chief among them . 
He intends to lead , and to have followers ; he intends to hold the purse strings of the diocese , and draw round him an obedient herd of his poor and hungry brethren . 
Mr. Slope 's ideas of sacerdotal rule are of quite a different class . 
He cares nothing , one way or the other , for the Queen 's supremacy ; these to his ears are empty words , meaning nothing . 
Forms he regards but little , and such titular expressions as supremacy , consecration , ordination , and the like , convey of themselves no significance to him . 
Let him be supreme who can . 
And such was the ambition of Mr. Slope . 
Dr. Grantly interfered very little with the worldly doings of those who were in any way subject to him . 
I do not mean to say that he omitted to notice misconduct among his clergy , immorality in his parish , or omissions in his family ; but he was not anxious to do so where the necessity could be avoided . 
He was not troubled with a propensity to be curious , and as long as those around him were tainted with no heretical leaning towards dissent , as long as they fully and freely admitted the efficacy of Mother Church , he was willing that that mother should be merciful and affectionate , prone to indulgence , and unwilling to chastise . 
He himself enjoyed the good things of this world , and liked to let it be known that he did so . 
He cordially despised any brother rector who thought harm of dinner-parties , or dreaded the dangers of a moderate claret-jug ; consequently dinner-parties and claret-jugs were common in the diocese . 
He liked to give laws and to be obeyed in them implicitly , but he endeavoured that his ordinances should be within the compass of the man , and not unpalatable to the gentleman . 
Of Mr. Slope 's conduct much can not be said , as his grand career is yet to commence ; but it may be premised that his tastes will be very different from those of the archdeacon . 
He conceives it to be his duty to know all the private doings and desires of the flock entrusted to his care . 
From the poorer classes he exacts an unconditional obedience to set rules of conduct , and if disobeyed he has recourse , like his great ancestor , to the fulminations of an Ernulfus : `` Thou shalt be damned in thy going in and in thy coming out -- in thy eating and thy drinking , '' & c. & c. & c. With the rich , experience has already taught him that a different line of action is necessary . 
But he has not , therefore , given up so important a portion of believing Christians . 
With the men , indeed , he is generally at variance ; they are hardened sinners , on whom the voice of the priestly charmer too often falls in vain ; but with the ladies , old and young , firm and frail , devout and dissipated , he is , as he conceives , all powerful . 
Our friends found Dr. Proudie sitting on the old bishop 's chair , looking very nice in his new apron ; they found , too , Mr. Slope standing on the hearthrug , persuasive and eager , just as the archdeacon used to stand ; but on the sofa they also found Mrs. Proudie , an innovation for which a precedent might in vain be sought in all the annals of the Barchester bishopric ! 
After this Mr. Slope presented himself . 
The bishop , it is true , did mention his name , and so did Mrs. Proudie too , in a louder tone ; but Mr. Slope took upon himself the chief burden of his own introduction . 
He had great pleasure in making himself acquainted with Dr. Grantly ; he had heard much of the archdeacon 's good works in that part of the diocese in which his duties as archdeacon had been exercised -LRB- thus purposely ignoring the archdeacon 's hitherto unlimited dominion over the diocese at large -RRB- . 
He was aware that his lordship depended greatly on the assistance which Dr. Grantly would be able to give him in that portion of his diocese . 
He then thrust out his hand , and grasping that of his new foe , bedewed it unmercifully . 
Dr. Grantly in return bowed , looked stiff , contracted his eyebrows , and wiped his hand with his pocket-handkerchief . 
Nothing abashed , Mr. Slope then noticed the precentor , and descended to the grade of the lower clergy . 
He gave him a squeeze of the hand , damp indeed , but affectionate , and was very glad to make the acquaintance of Mr. -- ; oh yes , Mr. Harding ; he had not exactly caught the name -- `` Precentor in the cathedral '' -- surmised Mr. Slope . 
`` Some parish duty as well , '' suggested Mr. Slope . 
Mr. Slope then left him alone , having condescended sufficiently , and joined the conversation among the higher powers . 
Mr. Slope had only himself and his own courage and tact to depend on , but he nevertheless was perfectly self-assured , and did not doubt but that he should soon get the better of weak men who trusted so much to externals , as both bishop and archdeacon appeared to do . 
asked Mr. Slope . 
Mr. Slope merely opened his wide eyes wider , and slightly shrugged his shoulders . 
He was not , however , prepared to give up his darling project . 
`` I fear there is a great deal of Sabbath travelling here , '' said he . 
Surely that will not secure such an observance of the Sabbath as we are taught to conceive is not only expedient but indispensable ; surely -- '' Come what come might , Dr. Grantly was not to be forced into a dissertation on a point of doctrine with Mrs. Proudie , nor yet with Mr. Slope ; so without much ceremony he turned his back upon the sofa , and began to hope that Dr. Proudie had found that the palace repairs had been such as to meet his wishes . 
`` Yes , yes , '' said his lordship ; upon the whole he thought so -- upon the whole , he did ` nt know that there was much ground for complaint ; the architect , perhaps , might have -- but his double , Mr. Slope , who had sidled over to the bishop 's chair , would not allow his lordship to finish his ambiguous speech . 
`` And the coach-house , Dr. Grantly , '' continued Mr. Slope ; `` there is really hardly room for a second carriage in the large coach-house , and the smaller one , of course , holds only one . '' 
Mr. Slope had remarked that the coping on the garden wall was in many places imperfect . 
Mr. Slope had , moreover , observed that the locks of the out-houses were very imperfect : he might specify the coal-cellar , and the wood-house . 
Mr. Slope was going on with his catalogue of grievances , when he was somewhat loudly interrupted by the archdeacon , who succeeded in explaining that the diocesan architect , or rather his foreman , was the person to be addressed on such subjects ; and that he , Dr. Grantly , had inquired as to the comfort of the palace , merely as a point of compliment . 
There was no standing this , for Mr. Slope was now looking at him , and so was the bishop , and so was the archdeacon , who had completed his adieux on that side of the room . 
And so the archdeacon and the precentor took their departure , bowing low to the lady , shaking hands with the lord , and escaping from Mr. Slope in the best manner each could . 
`` I do n't think I shall ever like that Mr. Slope , '' said Mr. Harding . 
`` Like him ! '' 
roared the archdeacon , standing still for a moment to give more force to his voice ; `` like him ! '' 
Like Mr. Slope ! 
Why no , it was not very probable that any Barchester-bred living thing should like Mr. Slope ! 
But what was such a person as Dr. Grantly to do , when such another person as Mr. Slope was put forward as his antagonist ? 
If he , our archdeacon , refused the combat , Mr. Slope would walk triumphant over the field , and have the diocese of Barchester under his heel . 
If , on the other hand , the archdeacon accepted as his enemy the man whom the new puppet bishop put before him as such , he would have to talk about Mr. Slope , and write about Mr. Slope , and in all matters treat with Mr. Slope , as a being standing , in some degree , on ground similar to his own . 
He would have to meet Mr. Slope ; to -- Bah ! 
He could not bring himself to have to do with Mr. Slope . 
you mean Mr. Slope . '' 
`` I ca n't say I felt myself much disposed to like him . '' 
`` Like him ! '' 
again shouted the doctor , and the assenting ravens again cawed an echo ; `` of course , you do n't like him : it 's not a question of liking . 
But what are we to do with him ? '' 
`` Do with him ? '' 
`` Yes -- what are we to do with him ? 
How are we to treat him ? 
There he is , and there he 'll stay . 
He has put his foot in that palace , and he 'll never take it out again till he 's driven . 
How are we to get rid of him ? '' 
`` I do n't suppose he can do us much harm . '' 
What would you say now , if he got himself put into the hospital ? 
Mr. Harding mused awhile , and then said he did n't think the new bishop would put Mr. Slope into the hospital . 
`` If he does n't put him there , he 'll put him somewhere else where he 'll be as bad . 
I tell you that that man , to all intents and purposes , will be Bishop of Barchester ; '' and again Dr. Grantly raised his hat , and rubbed his hand thoughtfully and sadly over his head . 
he continued after a while . 
`` When a woman is impertinent , one must only put up with it , and keep out of her way in future ; but I am not inclined to put up with Mr. Slope . 
''' Dr. Grantly did not again repeat the question aloud , but he did so constantly to himself , `` What were they to do with Mr. Slope ? '' 
He certainly was not prepared to cross himself , or to advocate the real presence ; but , without going this length , there were various observances , by adopting which he could plainly show his antipathy to such men as Dr. Proudie and Mr. Slope . 
All these things passed through his mind as he paced up and down the close with Mr. Harding . 
He felt that , as regarded himself and Mr. Slope , one of the two must be annihilated as far as the city of Barchester was concerned ; and he did not intend to give way until there was not left to him an inch of ground on which he could stand . 
He still flattered himself that he could make Barchester too hot to hold Mr. Slope , and he had no weakness of spirit to prevent his bringing about such a consummation if it were in his power . 
Indeed , it may be doubted whether Mr. Slope had not already within his breast a better prepared system of strategy , a more accurately defined line of hostile conduct than the archdeacon . 
Dr. Grantly was going to fight because he found that he hated the man . 
Mr. Slope had predetermined to hate the man , because he foresaw the necessity of fighting him . 
When he had first reviewed the carte du pays , previous to his entry into Barchester , the idea had occurred to him of conciliating the archdeacon , of cajoling and flattering him into submission , and of obtaining the upper hand by cunning instead of courage . 
A little inquiry , however , sufficed to convince him that all his cunning would fail to win over such a man as Dr. Grantly to such a mode of action as that to be adopted by Mr. Slope ; and then he determined to fall back upon his courage . 
He at once saw that open battle against Dr. Grantly and all Dr. Grantly 's adherents was a necessity of his position , and he deliberately planned the most expedient methods of giving offence . 
Soon after his arrival the bishop had intimated to the dean that , with the permission of the canon then in residence , his chaplain would preach in the cathedral on the next Sunday . 
Or rather , he would have been in residence but for the butterflies and other such summer-day considerations ; and the vicar-choral , who was to take his place in the pulpit , by no means objected to having his work done for him by Mr. Slope . 
Mr. Slope accordingly preached , and if a preacher can have satisfaction in being listened to , Mr. Slope ought to have been gratified . 
I have reason to think that he was gratified , and that he left the pulpit with the conviction that he had done what he intended to do when he entered it . 
All Barchester went to hear Mr. Slope ; either for that or to gaze at the new bishop . 
So the service went on , and at last Mr. Slope got into the pulpit . 
He chose for his text a verse from the precepts addressed by St. Paul to Timothy , as to the conduct necessary in a spiritual pastor and guide , and it was immediately evident that the good clergy of Barchester were to have a lesson . 
Whatever opinion of Mr. Slope might have been held in Barchester before he commenced his discourse , none of his hearers , when it was over , could mistake him either for a fool or a coward . 
Mr. Slope , in commencing his sermon , showed no slight tact in his ambiguous manner of hinting that , humble as he was himself , he stood there as the mouthpiece of the illustrious divine who sat opposite to him ; and having premised so much , he gave forth a very accurate definition of the conduct which that prelate would rejoice to see in the clergymen now brought under his jurisdiction . 
Having thus , according to his own opinion , explained how a clergyman should show himself approved unto God , as a workman that needeth not to be ashamed , he went on to explain how the word of truth should be divided ; and here he took a rather narrow view of the question , and fetched his arguments from afar . 
Had St. Paul spoken of rightly pronouncing , instead of rightly dividing the word of truth , this part of his sermon would have been more to the purpose ; but the preacher 's immediate object was to preach Mr. Slope 's doctrine , and not St. Paul 's , and he contrived to give the necessary twist to the text with some skill . 
There was , at any rate , no tedium felt in listening to Mr. Slope on the occasion in question . 
His subject came too home to his audience to be dull ; and , to tell the truth , Mr. Slope had the gift of using words forcibly . 
He was heard through his thirty minutes of eloquence with mute attention and open ears ; but with angry eyes , which glared round from one enraged parson to another , with wide-spread nostrils from which already burst forth fumes of indignation , and with many shufflings of the feet and uneasy motions of the body , which betokened minds disturbed , and hearts not at peace with all the world . 
Some other Jupiter , some other Mr. Slope , would come and turn him out of St. Cuthbert 's . 
Surely he could not have been wrong all his life in chanting the litany as he had done ! 
He began , however , to have his doubts . 
The laity also had listened to Mr. Slope 's new doctrine , all with surprise , some with indignation , and some with a mixed feeling , in which dislike of the preacher was not so strongly blended . 
Yet there were those who had heard Mr. Slope with satisfaction . 
Mr. Slope was certainly not delightful , but he was new , and , moreover , clever . 
Mr. Slope might be right . 
really more ought to have been done as to Sunday schools ; Sabbath-day schools Mr. Slope had called them . 
The late bishop had really not thought of Sunday schools as he should have done . 
And then , as regarded that great question of musical services , there might be much to be said on Mr. Slope 's side of the question . 
It certainly was the fact , that people went to the cathedral to hear the music , & c. & c. And so a party absolutely formed itself in Barchester on Mr. Slope 's side of the question ! 
No man -- that is , no gentleman -- could possibly be attracted by Mr. Slope , or consent to sit at the feet of so abhorrent a Gamaliel . 
Wilkes was most fortunate as a lover ; and the damp , sandy-haired , saucer-eyed , red-fisted Mr. Slope was powerful , only over the female breast . 
They , and they only , came to call on Mr. Slope after his performance in the cathedral pulpit . 
a year , should look after the loaves and fishes , even when they are under the thumb of a Mr. Slope ? 
Very soon after the Sunday on which the sermon was preached , the leading clergy of the neighbourhood held high debate together as to how Mr. Slope should be put down . 
In the first place , he should never again preach from the pulpit of Barchester cathedral . 
This was Dr. Grantly 's earliest dictum ; and they all agreed , providing only that they had the power to exclude him . 
To this the dean assented , but alleged that contests on such a subject would be unseemly ; to which rejoined a meagre little doctor , one of the cathedral prebendaries , that the contest must be all on the side of Mr. Slope if every prebendary were always there ready to take his own place in the pulpit . 
Cunning little meagre doctor , whom it suits well to live in his own cosy house within Barchester close , and who is well content to have his little fling at Dr. Vesey Stanhope and other absentees , whose Italian villas , or enticing London homes , are more tempting than cathedral stalls and residences ! 
Yes , let them tell the bishop how distasteful to them was this Mr. Slope : a new bishop just come to his seat could not wish to insult his clergy while the gloss was yet fresh on his first apron . 
That pulpit belongs solely to the dean and chapter of Barchester Cathedral , and , as yet , Mr. Slope is no part of that chapter . 
Mr. Slope can not preach there without permission asked and obtained , and let that permission be invariably refused . 
All , however , agreed in saying that Mr. Slope was to be debarred from opening his mouth in the cathedral of Barchester ; many believed that the vergers were to be ordered to refuse him even the accommodation of a seat ; and some of the most fargoing advocates for strong measures , declared that his sermon was looked upon as an indictable offence , and that proceedings were to be taken against him for brawling . 
The party who were inclined to defend him -- the enthusiastically religious young ladies , and the middle-aged spinsters desirous of a move -- of course took up his defence the more warmly on account of this attack . 
If they could not hear Mr. Slope in the cathedral , they would hear him elsewhere ; they would leave the dull dean , the dull old prebendaries , and the scarcely less dull young minor canons , to preach to each other ; they would work slippers and cushions , and hem bands for Mr. Slope , make him a happy martyr , and stick him up in some new Sion or Bethesda , and put the cathedral quite out of fashion . 
They thought it expedient not to have to encounter any personal application from the dean and chapter respecting the sermon , till the violence of the storm had expended itself ; but they left Mr. Slope behind them nothing daunted , and he went about his work zealously , flattering such as would listen to his flattery , whispering religious twaddle into the ears of foolish women , ingratiating himself with the few clergy who would receive him , visiting the houses of the poor , inquiring into all people , prying into everything , and searching with his minutest eye into all palatial dilapidations . 
He did not , however , make any immediate attempt to preach again in the cathedral . 
Among the ladies in Barchester who have hitherto acknowledged Mr. Slope as their spiritual director , must not be reckoned either the widow Bold , or her sister-in-law . 
This wrath , however , has in some degree been mitigated , and I regret to say that these ladies allowed Mr. Slope to be his own apologist . 
About a fortnight after the sermon had been preached , they were both of them not a little surprised by hearing Mr. Slope announced , as the page in buttons opened Mrs. Bold 's drawing-room door . 
In this manner was Mr. Slope received . 
But when he left , he was allowed by each lady to take her hand , and to make his adieux as gentlemen do who have been graciously entertained ! 
Yes ; he shook hands with them , and was curtseyed out courteously , the buttoned page opening the door , as he would have done for the best canon of them all . 
He had touched the baby 's little hand and blessed him with a fervid blessing ; he had spoken to the widow of her early sorrows , and Eleanor 's silent tears had not rebuked him ; he had told Mary Bold that her devotion would be rewarded , and Mary Bold had heard the praise without disgust . 
And how had he done all this ? 
how had he so quickly turned aversion into , at any rate , acquaintance ? 
My readers will guess from what I have written that I myself do not like Mr. Slope ; but I am constrained to admit that he is a man of parts . 
He knows how to say a soft word in the proper place ; he knows how to adapt his flattery to the ears of his hearers ; he knows the wiles of the serpent , and he uses them . 
Could Mr. Slope have adapted his manners to men as well as to women , could he ever have learnt the ways of a gentleman , he might have risen to great things . 
He commenced his acquaintance with Eleanor by praising her father . 
He had , he said , become aware that he had unfortunately offended the feelings of a man of whom he could not speak too highly ; he would not now allude to a subject which was probably too serious for drawing-room conversation , but he would say , that it had been very far from him to utter a word in disparagement of a man , of whom all the world , at least the clerical world , spoke so highly as it did of Mr. Harding . 
When he left , he expressed a hope that he might again be allowed to call ; and though Eleanor gave no verbal assent to this , she did not express dissent : and so Mr. Slope 's right to visit at the widow 's house was established . 
The day after this visit Eleanor told her father of it , and expressed an opinion that Mr. Slope was not quite so black as he had been painted . 
Mr. Harding opened his eyes rather wider than usual when he heard what had occurred , but he said little ; he could not agree in any praise of Mr. Slope , and it was not his practice to say much evil of any one . 
He did not , however , like the visit , and simpleminded as he was , he felt sure that Mr. Slope had some deeper motive than the mere pleasure of making soft speeches to two ladies . 
Mr. Harding , however , had come to see his daughter with other purpose than that of speaking either good or evil of Mr. Slope . 
He had come to tell her that the place of warden in Hiram 's hospital was again to be filled up , and that in all probability he would once more return to his old home and his twelve bedesmen . 
The thought that he must receive his reappointment as the gift of the new bishop , and probably through the hands of Mr. Slope , annoyed him a little ; but his mind was set at rest by the assurance of the archdeacon that there would be no favour in such a presentation . 
Nor would I ask a favour , the granting of which might possibly be made a question to be settled by Mr. Slope . 
No , '' said he , moved for a moment by a spirit very unlike his own , `` I certainly shall be very glad to go back to the hospital ; but I should never go there , if it were necessary that my doing so should be the subject of a request to Mr. Slope . '' 
She had not learnt to like Mr. Slope , but she had learnt to think that he had much respect for her father ; and she would , therefore , willingly use her efforts to induce something like good feeling between them . 
`` Papa , '' said she , `` I think you somewhat mistake Mr. Slope 's character . '' 
said he , placidly . 
`` But Mr. Slope would say that on such a subject the commands of his heavenly Master do not admit of his being silent . '' 
`` Nor of his being courteous , Eleanor ? '' 
`` He did not say that , papa . '' 
I am sorry to say that I can not defend Mr. Slope 's sermon in the cathedral . 
Mr. Slope had written to him by the bishop 's desire . 
This was sufficient to give to Mr. Slope high hope that he might enlist Dr. Stanhope on his side , before his enemies could out-manoeuvre him . 
He had hardly dared to look his clergy in the face , and to declare by the severity of his countenance that in truth he meant all that his factotum was saying on his behalf ; nor yet did he dare to throw Mr. Slope over , and show to those around him that he was no party to the sermon , and would resent it . 
It was not in him to say to the wife of his bosom that Mr. Slope 's sermon was ill-timed , impertinent and vexatious . 
I shall beg Mr. Slope to continue a course of sermons on the subject till all that is altered . 
`` Mr. Slope will remain here , of course ? '' 
During that time Mr. Slope was not idle , but he did not again essay to preach in the cathedral . 
In answer to Mrs. Proudie 's letters , advising a course of sermons , he had pleaded that he would at any rate wish to put off such an undertaking till she was there to hear them . 
He had employed his time in consolidating a Proudie and Slope party -- or rather a Slope and Proudie party , and he had not employed his time in vain . 
He did not meddle with the dean and chapter , except by giving them little teasing intimations of the bishop 's wishes about this and the bishop 's feelings about that , in a manner which was to them sufficiently annoying , but which they could not resent . 
The tickets of invitation were sent out from London -- they were dated from Bruton Street , and were despatched by the odious Sabbath breaking railway , in a huge brown paper parcel to Mr. Slope . 
The card sent to Dr. and Mrs. Stanhope and family , had been so sent in an envelope , having on the cover Mr. Slope 's name . 
In five lines she explained everything , declared how impossible it was for her not to be desirous to make the acquaintance of such persons as the Bishop of Barchester and his wife , and she might add also of Mr. Slope , depicted her own grievous state , and concluded by being assured that Mrs. Proudie would forgive her extreme hardihood in petitioning to be allowed to be carried to a sofa . 
In return she received as polite an answer from Mr. Slope -- a sofa should be kept in the large drawing-room , immediately at the top of the grand stairs , especially for her use . 
The bishop and his wife came down from town , only on the morning of the eventful day , as behoved such great people to do ; but Mr. Slope had toiled day and night to see that everything should be in right order . 
Mrs. Proudie had at first declared that she would condescend to nothing so vulgar as eating and drinking ; but Mr. Slope had talked , or rather written her out of economy . 
It was managed excellently , and Mr. Slope was invaluable . 
At half-past nine the bishop and his wife and their three daughters entered the great reception room , and very grand and very solemn they were . 
Mr. Slope was down stairs giving the last orders about the wine . 
He well understood that curates and country vicars with their belongings did not require so generous an article as the dignitaries of the close . 
`` Bishop , '' said the lady , as his lordship sat himself down , `` do n't sit on that sofa , if you please ; it is to be kept separate for a lady . '' 
Each of the girls stood on tiptoe , and rearranged the bows on their bosoms ; and Mr. Slope rushed up stairs three steps at a time . 
whispered the bishop to his youngest daughter . 
Mr. Slope was presented , and was delighted to make the acquaintance of one of whom he had heard so much . 
The doctor bowed very low , and then looked as though he could not return the compliment as regarded Mr. Slope , of whom , indeed , he had heard nothing . 
And Mrs. Proudie moved about with well regulated grace , measuring out the quantity of her favours to the quality of her guests , just as Mr. Slope had been doing with the wine . 
The bishop was instinctively aware that La Signora Vicinironi was come at last , and Mr. Slope hurried into the hall to give his assistance . 
He was , however , nearly knocked down and trampled on by the cortége that he encountered on the hall steps . 
He got himself picked up , as well as he could , and followed the cortége up stairs . 
Mrs. Proudie was standing with Mr. Slope in front of the signora , and had been trying to be condescending and sociable ; but she was not in the very best of tempers ; for she found that , whenever she spoke to the lady , the lady replied by speaking to Mr. Slope . 
Mr. Slope was a favourite , no doubt ; but Mrs. Proudie had no idea of being less thought of than the chaplain . 
By this time the bishop , and Mr. Slope , and her three daughters were around her , and had collected together the wide ruins of her magnificence . 
Let Mr. Slope do the fortiter in re , he himself would pour in the suaviter in modo . 
`` Pray do n't stir , Mr. Dean , pray do n't stir , '' he said , as the old man essayed to get up ; `` I take it as a great kindness , your coming to such an omnium gatherum as this . 
Mr. Harding was probably aware of this , and would , perhaps , not object to discuss the matter with Mr. Slope . 
It was a subject to which Mr. Slope had given a good deal of attention . 
What could Mr. Slope do to him ? 
He knew that there were to be changes . 
Mr. Slope in the meantime had taken the seat which the bishop had vacated on the signora 's sofa , and remained with that lady till it was time to marshal the folk to supper . 
Had not this woman laughed at her distress , and had not Mr. Slope heard it ? 
She had not the slightest desire that Mr. Slope should be in love with herself . 
But she desired the incense of Mr. Slope 's spiritual and temporal services , and did not choose that they should be turned out of their course to such an object as Signora Neroni . 
She considered also that Mr. Slope ought in duty to hate the signora ; and it appeared from his manner that he was very far from hating her . 
`` Come , Mr. Slope , '' she said , sweeping by , and looking all that she felt ; `` ca n't you make yourself useful ? 
What would the archdeacon have said had he seen her walking down stairs with Mr. Slope ? 
Mr. Slope heard also , but was by no means so obedient as was expected . 
Indeed , the period of Mr. Slope 's obedience to Mrs. Proudie was drawing to a close . 
He did not wish yet to break with her , nor to break with her at all , if it could be avoided . 
But he intended to be master in that palace , and as she had made the same resolution it was not improbable that they might come to blows . 
Before leaving the signora he arranged a little table before her , and begged to know what he should bring her . 
Mr. Slope had to explain , not without blushing for his patron , that there was no champagne . 
And then Mr. Slope descended with the learned Miss Trefoil on his arm . 
Could she tell him , he asked , whether the ferns of Barsetshire were equal to those of Cumberland ? 
His strongest worldly passion was for ferns -- and before she could answer him he left her wedged between the door and the sideboard . 
`` You are not leaving us , Mr. Slope , '' said the watchful lady of the house , seeing her slave escaping towards the door , with stores of provisions held high above the heads of the guests . 
Mr. Slope explained that the Signora Neroni was in want of her supper . 
`` Pray , Mr. Slope , let her brother take it to her , '' said Mrs. Proudie , quite out loud . 
Pray , Mr. Slope , oblige me ; I am sure Mr. Stanhope will wait upon his sister . '' 
The lady 's anger was increased by seeing that her daughter also had gone over to the enemy ; and when she saw , that in spite of her remonstances , in the teeth of her positive orders , Mr. Slope went off to the drawing-room , the cup of her indignation ran over , and she could not restrain herself . 
`` I can not , and will not permit it ; '' and then , after fussing and fuming for a few minutes , she pushed her way through the crowd , and followed Mr. Slope . 
The signora was sitting very comfortably up to her supper , and Mr. Slope was leaning over her and administering to her wants . 
`` And when shall it be , Mr. Slope ? '' 
Mr. Slope was saved the necessity of committing himself to a promise by the entry of Mrs. Proudie . 
She swept close up to the sofa so as to confront the guilty pair , stared full at them for a moment , and then said , as she passed on to the next room , `` Mr. Slope , his lordship is especially desirous of your attendance below ; you will greatly oblige me if you will join him . '' 
Mr. Slope muttered something in reply , and prepared to go down stairs . 
As for the bishop 's wanting him , he knew his lady patroness well enough to take that assertion at what it was worth ; but he did not wish to make himself the hero of a scene , or to become conspicuous for more gallantry than the occasion required . 
`` Yes -- always -- madam , '' said Mrs. Proudie , returning ; `` always the same -- always equally adverse to impropriety of conduct of every description ; '' and she stalked back through the room again , following Mr. Slope out of the door . 
`` Mr. Slope , '' said Mrs. Proudie , catching the delinquent at the door , `` I am surprised you should leave my company to attend on such a painted Jezebel as that . '' 
Mrs. Proudie kept Mr. Slope and her daughters in close conversation , resolving that he should not be indulged , nor they polluted . 
`` Oh , yes , '' said Madeline ; `` Mr. Slope was so very kind as to bring it me . 
I fear , however , he put himself to more inconvenience than I wished . '' 
Two or three days after the party , Mr. Harding received a note , begging him to call on Mr. Slope , at the palace , at an early hour on the following morning . 
Slope . 
Mr. Harding neither could nor would believe anything of the sort ; and he thought , moreover , that Mr. Slope was rather impertinent to call himself by such a name . 
His assured friend , indeed ! 
and how much of such process had taken place as yet between Mr. Harding and Mr. Slope ? 
And on the following morning , punctually at half-past nine , he knocked at the palace door , and asked for Mr. Slope . 
The bishop had one small room allotted to him on the ground-floor , and Mr. Slope had another . 
Mr. Slope was not yet there . 
The ex-warden stood up at the window looking into the garden , and could not help thinking how very short a time had passed since the whole of that house had been open to him , as though he had been a child of the family , born and bred in it . 
He remembered how the old servants used to smile as they opened the door to him ; how the familiar butler would say , when he had been absent a few hours longer than usual , `` A sight of you , Mr. Harding , is good for sore eyes ; '' how the fussy housekeeper would swear that he could n't have dined , or could n't have breakfasted , or could n't have lunched . 
If Mr. Slope did not really wish to see him at half-past nine o'clock , why force him to come away from his lodgings with his breakfast in his throat . 
To tell the truth , it was policy on the part of Mr. Slope . 
Mr. Slope had made up his mind that Mr. Harding should either accept the hospital with abject submission , or else refuse it altogether ; and had calculated that he would probably be more quick to do the latter , if he could be got to enter upon the subject in an ill-humour . 
Perhaps Mr. Slope was not altogether wrong in his calculation . 
It was nearly ten when Mr. Slope hurried into the room , and , muttering something about the bishop and diocesan duties , shook Mr. Harding 's hand ruthlessly , and begged him to be seated . 
began Mr. Slope , speaking of it as the head of a college at Cambridge might speak of some sizarship which had to be disposed of . 
Mr. Harding crossed one leg over another , and then one hand over the other on the top of them , and looked Mr. Slope in the face ; but he said nothing . 
`` It 's to be filled up again , '' said Mr. Slope . 
`` Of course , you know , the income will be very much reduced , '' continued Mr. Slope . 
Mr. Harding still rubbed his hands , and still sat silent , gazing up into Mr. Slope 's unprepossessing face . 
`` Then , as to the duties , '' continued he , `` I believe , if I am rightly informed , there can hardly be said to have been any duties hitherto , '' and he gave a sort of half laugh , as though to pass off the accusation in the guise of a pleasantry . 
Mr. Slope again smiled , and this time the smile was intended to operate against the memory of the late bishop , rather than against the energy of the ex-warden ; and so it was understood by Mr. Harding . 
`` You must be aware , Mr. Harding , that things are a good deal changed in Barchester , '' said Mr. Slope . 
He had never rated very high his own abilities or activity ; but all the feelings of his heart were with the old clergy , and any antipathies of which his heart was susceptible , were directed against those new , busy , uncharitable , self-lauding men , of whom Mr. Slope was so good an example . 
`` Perhaps , '' said he , `` the bishop will prefer a new man at the hospital ? '' 
`` By no means , '' said Mr. Slope . 
`` As to the old men , '' continued Mr. Slope , `` and the old women who are to form a part of the hospital , the bishop is desirous that you shall have morning and evening service on the premises every Sabbath , and one week-day service ; that you shall preach to them once at least on Sundays ; and that the whole hospital be always collected for morning and evening prayer . 
Mr. Slope paused , but Mr. Harding still said nothing . 
`` But I hope you do not , '' said Mr. Slope . 
This question rather bothered Mr. Slope . 
It was true that he had talked the matter over with the bishop , and had received a sort of authority for suggesting to Mr. Harding the propriety of a Sunday school , and certain hospital services ; but he had no authority for saying that these propositions were to be made peremptory conditions attached to the appointment . 
Mr. Slope 's idea had been more correct . 
He intended that Mr. Harding should refuse the situation , and that an ally of his own should get it ; but he had not conceived the possibility of Mr. Harding openly accepting the appointment , and as openly rejecting the conditions . 
`` I hardly expected such an argument from you , or I may say the suggestion of such a line of conduct , '' said Mr. Slope , with a great look of injured virtue . 
`` I shall be glad at any rate to know what answer I am to make to his lordship , '' said Mr. Slope . 
`` Such an arrangement , '' said Mr. Slope , `` will hardly give his lordship satisfaction . 
`` Do you know , Mr. Slope , how long I have been officiating as a clergyman in this city ? '' 
Mr. Slope 's wish was now nearly fulfilled . 
I shall consult my friends in this matter , Mr. Slope ; but I mean to be guilty of no subterfuge , -- you may tell the bishop that as I altogether disagree with his views about the hospital , I shall decline the situation if I find that any such conditions are attached to it as those you have suggested ; '' and so saying , Mr. Harding took his hat and went his way . 
Mr. Slope was contented . 
He considered himself at liberty to accept Mr. Harding 's last speech as an absolute refusal of the appointment . 
`` Yes , '' said Mr. Slope , `` if he can hold it without the slightest acknowledgement of your lordship 's jurisdiction . '' 
What cruel words these had been ; and how often are they now used with all the heartless cruelty of a Slope ! 
This new doctrine of Mr. Slope and the rubbish cart , new at least at Barchester , sadly disturbed his equanimity . 
And had he been living all his life receiving wages , and doing no work ? 
Had he in truth so lived as to be now in his old age justly reckoned as rubbish fit only to be hidden away in some huge dust hole ? 
The school of men to whom he professes to belong , the Grantlys , the Gwynnes , and the old high set of Oxford divines , are afflicted with no such self-accusations as these which troubled Mr. Harding . 
They , as a rule , are as satisfied with the wisdom and propriety of their own conduct as can be any Mr. Slope , or any Dr. Proudie , with his own . 
Mr. Slope had forestalled him at the widow 's house . 
He had called there on the preceding afternoon . 
He could not , he had said , deny himself the pleasure of telling Mrs. Bold that her father was about to return to the pretty house at Hiram 's hospital . 
And then by degrees Mr. Slope had introduced the subject of the pretty school which he hoped before long to see attached to the hospital . 
He had quite fascinated Mrs. Bold by his description of this picturesque , useful , and charitable appendage ; and she had gone so far as to say that she had no doubt her father would approve , and that she herself would gladly undertake a class . 
Any one who had heard the entirely different tone , and seen the entirely different manner in which Mr. Slope had spoken of this projected institution to the daughter and to the father , could not have failed to own that Mr. Slope was a man of genius . 
He said nothing to Mrs. Bold about the hospital sermons and services , nothing about the exclusion of the old men from the cathedral , nothing about dilapidation and painting , nothing about carting away the rubbish . 
Eleanor had said to herself that certainly she did not like Mr. Slope personally , but that he was a very active , zealous clergyman , and would no doubt be useful in Barchester . 
`` I 've been with Mr. Slope , my dear , and he is n't the pleasantest companion in the world , at least not to me . '' 
Eleanor gave a sort of half blush ; but she was wrong if she imagined that her father in any way alluded to her acquaintance with Mr. Slope . 
`` Mr. Slope wishes to supply it by making me his schoolmaster . 
Mr. Slope does n't intend that . 
He was here yesterday , and what he intends -- '' `` He was here yesterday , was he ? '' 
Mr. Slope spoke of a school , not inside the hospital , but just connected with it , of which you would be the patron and visitor ; and I thought you would have liked such a school as that ; and I promised to look after it and to take a class -- and it all seemed so very -- . 
`` Nothing wrong at all , my dear , '' said he , gently , very gently rejecting his daughter 's caress . 
`` I am not quite sure that if I were you I would select Mr. Slope for my guide . '' 
`` It would be very wicked of me to speak evil of him , for to tell the truth I know no evil of him ; but I am not quite sure that he is honest . 
That he is not gentleman-like in his manners , of that I am quite sure . '' 
`` I never thought of taking him for my guide , papa . '' 
He did not own to himself that he wished his daughter to hate Mr. Slope ; yet had she expressed such a feeling there would have been very little bitterness in the rebuke he would have given her for so uncharitable a state of mind . 
The fact , however , was that she was on friendly terms with Mr. Slope , that she coincided with his views , adhered at once to his plans , and listened with delight to his teaching . 
There was , at any rate , no danger that the archdeacon would fraternise with Mr. Slope ; but then he would recommend internecine war , public appeals , loud reproaches , and all the paraphernalia of open battle . 
Mrs. Grantly entertained quite as strong an antagonism to Mr. Slope as did her husband ; she was also quite as alive to the necessity of combating the Proudie faction , of supporting the old church interest of the close , of keeping in her own set such of the loaves and fishes as duly belonged to it ; and was quite as well prepared as her lord to carry on the battle without giving or taking quarter . 
Not that she was a woman prone to quarrelling , or ill inclined to live at peace with her clerical neighbours ; but she felt , as did the archdeacon , that the presence of Mr. Slope in Barchester was an insult to every one connected with the late bishop , and that his assumed dominion in the diocese was a spiritual injury to her husband . 
Mrs. Grantly soon learnt that her sister Eleanor had promised to assist Mr. Slope in the affairs of the hospital school ; and it was on this point that her attention first fixed itself . 
Eleanor has a thousand a year entirely at her own disposal , and what better fortune could fall to Mr. Slope 's lot than the transferring of the disposal of such a fortune to himself ? '' 
`` But you ca n't think she likes him , Susan ? '' 
`` Why should n't she like him ? 
He 's just the sort of man to get on with a woman left as she is , with no one to look after her . '' 
`` But you do n't really mean to say that you suppose Eleanor has ever thought of marrying Mr. Slope ? 
`` I thought Mr. Slope seemed to talk to nobody there but that daughter of Stanhope 's , '' said Mr. Harding , wishing to defend his child . 
`` Oh , Mr. Slope is a cleverer man than you think of , papa , and keeps more than one iron in the fire . '' 
To give Eleanor her due , any suspicion as to the slightest inclination on her part towards Mr. Slope was a wrong to her . 
She had no more idea of marrying Mr. Slope than she had of marrying the bishop ; and the idea that Mr. Slope would present himself as a suitor had never occurred to her . 
Having agreed to overlook such offences as these , why should she not in time be taught to regard Mr. Slope as a suitor ? 
And as to him , it must also be affirmed that he was hitherto equally innocent of the crime imputed to him . 
Mr. Slope had ingratiated himself with Mrs. Bold , merely as he had done with other ladies , in order to strengthen his party in the city . 
He subsequently amended his error ; but it was not till after the interview between him and Mr. Harding . 
It 's a great thing for me to have him so near me ; and if anything can put Slope down , Arabin will do it . '' 
For some time past Mr. Arabin had been engaged in a tremendous controversy with no less a person than Mr. Slope , respecting the apostolic succession . 
Mr. Slope had endeavoured to strengthen his cause by calling Mr. Arabin an owl , and Mr. Arabin had retaliated by hinting that Mr. Slope was an infidel . 
This battle had been commenced in the columns of the daily Jupiter , a powerful newspaper , the manager of which was very friendly to Mr. Slope 's view of the case . 
The matter , however , had become too tedious for the readers of the Jupiter , and a little note had therefore been appended to one of Mr. Slope 's most telling rejoinders , in which it had been stated that no further letters from the reverend gentlemen could be inserted except as advertisements . 
Mr. Slope declared that the main part of the consecration of a clergyman was the self-devotion of the inner man to the duties of the ministry . 
The picture of Mr. Slope carting away the rubbish was still present to his mind . 
`` I do hope , '' said he , `` that you are not going to be so weak as to allow such a man as Mr. Slope to deter you from doing what you know it is your duty to do . 
The fact is , you are half afraid of this Slope , and would rather subject yourself to comparative poverty and discomfort , than come to blows with a man who will trample on you , if you let him . '' 
My opinion is , that all this trash about the Sunday-schools and the sermons has originated wholly with Slope and Mrs. Proudie , and that the bishop knows nothing about it . 
They therefore went into the drawing-room in good humour with each other , and the evening passed pleasantly in prophetic discussions on the future wars of Arabin and Slope . 
He could not himself descend into the arena with Slope , but Arabin would have no such scruples . 
Such was the full extent of her sins in the matter of Mr. Slope . 
The next morning Mr. Harding returned to Barchester , no further word having been spoken in his hearing respecting Mr. Slope 's acquaintance with his younger daughter . 
But he observed that the archdeacon at breakfast was less cordial than he had been on the preceding evening . 
Mr. Slope lost no time in availing himself of the bishop 's permission to see Mr. Quiverful , and it was in his interview with this worthy pastor that he first learned that Mrs. Bold was worth the wooing . 
Nevertheless , he was extremely civil , cringingly civil , to Mr. Slope ; treated him quite as the great man ; entreated this great man to do him the honour to drink a glass of sherry , at which , as it was very poor Marsala , the now pampered Slope turned up his nose ; and ended by declaring his extreme obligation to the bishop and Mr. Slope , and his great desire to accept the hospital , if -- if it were certainly the case that Mr. Harding had refused it . 
`` Mr. Harding did positively refuse it , '' said Mr. Slope , with a certain air of offended dignity , `` when he heard of the conditions to which the appointment is now subjected . 
He would have undertaken to preach any number of sermons Mr. Slope might have chosen to dictate , and to pass every remaining hour of his Sundays within the walls of a Sunday-school . 
What sacrifices , or at any rate , what promises , would have been too much to make for such an addition to his income , and for such a house ! 
But his mind still recurred to Mr. Harding . 
`` You mean Mrs. Grantly , '' said Slope . 
said Slope , and very shortly afterwards took his leave , avoiding , as far as it was possible for him to do , any further allusion to the hospital . 
said he to himself , as he rode slowly home . 
The train of Mr. Slope 's ideas will probably be plain to all my readers . 
Why should he not make the twelve hundred a year his own ? 
and if he did so , would it not be well for him to have a father-in-law comfortably provided with the good things of this world ? 
would it not , moreover , be much more easy for him to gain the daughter , if he did all in his power to forward the father 's views ? 
These questions presented themselves to him in a very forcible way , and yet there were many points of doubt . 
If he resolved to restore to Mr. Harding his former place , he must take the necessary steps for doing so at once ; he must immediately talk over the bishop , quarrel on the matter with Mrs. Proudie whom he knew he could not talk over , and let Mr. Quiverful know that he had been a little too precipitate as to Mr. Harding 's positive refusal . 
It would be too much to say that Mr. Slope was lost in love ; but yet he thought , and kept continually thinking , that he had never seen so beautiful a woman . 
He was a man whose nature was open to such impulses , and the wiles of the Italianised charmer had been thoroughly successful in imposing upon his thoughts . 
Mr. Slope had thus left her quite bewildered , and could not willingly admit into his brain any scheme , a part of which would be the necessity of his abandoning all further special friendship with this lady . 
And so he slowly rode along very meditative . 
And here the author must beg it to be remembered that Mr. Slope was not in all things a bad man . 
His motives , like those of most men , were mixed ; and though his conduct was generally very different from that which we would wish to praise , it was actuated perhaps as often as that of the majority of the world by a desire to do his duty . 
He believed in the religion which he taught , harsh , unpalatable , uncharitable as that religion was . 
He believed those whom he wished to get under his hoof , the Grantlys and Gwynnes of the church , to be the enemies of that religion . 
He believed himself to be a pillar of strength , destined to do great things ; and with that subtle , selfish , ambiguous sophistry to which the minds of all men are so subject , he had taught himself to think that in doing much for the promotion of his own interests , he was doing much also for the promotion of religion . 
But Mr. Slope had never been an immoral man . 
Indeed , he had resisted temptations to immorality with a strength of purpose that was creditable to him . 
He had early in life devoted himself to works which were not compatible with the ordinary pleasures of youth , and he had abandoned such pleasures not without a struggle . 
It must therefore be conceived that he did not admit to himself that he warmly admired the beauty of a married woman without heart-felt stings of conscience ; and to pacify that conscience he had to teach himself that the nature of his admiration was innocent . 
And thus he rode along meditative and ill at ease . 
His conscience had not a word to say against his choosing the widow and her fortune . 
That he looked upon as a godly work rather than otherwise ; as a deed which , if carried through , would redound to his credit as a Christian . 
On that side lay no future remorse , no conduct which he might probably have to forget , no inward stings . 
If it should turn out to be really the fact that Mrs. Bold had twelve hundred a year at her own disposal , Mr. Slope would rather look upon it as a duty which he owed his religion to make himself the master of the wife and the money ; as a duty too , in which some amount of self-sacrifice would be necessary . 
He would have to give up his friendship with the signora , his resistance to Mr. Harding , his antipathy -- no , he found on mature self-examination , that he could not bring himself to give up his antipathy to Dr. Grantly . 
He would marry the lady as the enemy of her brother-in-law if such an arrangement suited her ; if not , she must look elsewhere for a husband . 
To give Mr. Slope his due , he was not a man who ever let much grass grow under his feet . 
About the time that Mr. Slope was visiting the vicar of Puddingdale a discussion took place respecting her charms and wealth at Dr. Stanhope 's house in the close . 
It is not destined that Eleanor shall marry Mr. Slope or Bertie Stanhope . 
I would not for the value of this chapter have it believed by a single reader that my Eleanor could bring herself to marry Mr. Slope , or that she should be sacrificed to a Bertie Stanhope . 
At this moment the door opened , and Mr. Slope was announced . 
Mr. Slope , however , immediately recognised her loveliness , and thought to himself , that irrespective of her fortune , she would be an inmate that a man might well desire for his house , a partner for his bosom 's care very well qualified to make care lie easy . 
And while she is gone , we will briefly go back and state what had been hitherto the results of Mr. Slope 's meditations on his scheme of matrimony . 
His inquiries as to the widow 's income had at any rate been so far successful as to induce him to determine to go on with the speculation . 
Mr. Slope was by no means of opinion that Dr. Proudie was fit to rule , but he conscientiously thought it wrong that his brother clergy should be subjected to petticoat government . 
He therefore made up his mind to infuse a little of his spirit into the bishop , sufficient to induce him to oppose his wife , though not enough to make him altogether insubordinate . 
He had therefore taken an opportunity of again speaking to his lordship about the hospital , and had endeavoured to make it appear that after all it would be unwise to exclude Mr. Harding from the appointment . 
Mr. Slope , however , had a harder task than he had imagined . 
Indeed Mrs. Proudie had been so engaged at the very time that Mr. Slope had been doing the same with the husband at Puddingdale Vicarage , and had thus in a measure committed herself . 
Such having been the case , Mr. Slope naturally encountered a difficulty in talking over the bishop , a difficulty indeed which he found could not be overcome except at the cost of a general outbreak at the palace . 
He began by whispering to the bishop that he feared that public opinion would be against him if Mr. Harding did not reappear at the hospital . 
The bishop answered with some warmth that Mr. Quiverful had been promised the appointment on Mr. Slope 's advice . 
said Mr. Slope . 
This was quite unexpected on the part of Mr. Slope , but his presence of mind did not fail him , and he turned the statement to his own account . 
`` Ah , my lord , '' said he , `` we shall all be in scrapes if the ladies interfere . '' 
`` I only speak , my lord , for your own comfort , '' said Slope ; `` for your own comfort and dignity in the diocese . 
But still , in my present position , my first duty is to your lordship ; `` I 'm sure of that , Mr. Slope ; I am quite sure of that ; '' said the bishop mollified : `` and you really think that Mr. Harding should have the hospital ? '' 
His mind , however , slightly inclined itself to the appointment of Mr. Harding , seeing that by such a step he should have the assistance of Mr. Slope in opposing Mrs. Proudie . 
Such was the state of affairs at the palace , when Mr. Slope called at Mrs. Bold 's house , and found her playing with her baby . 
When she ran out of the room , Mr. Slope began praising the weather to Mary Bold , then he praised the baby and kissed him , and then he praised the mother , and then he praised Miss Bold herself . 
`` I have to apologise for calling at so very early an hour , '' began Mr. Slope , `` but I was really so anxious to speak to you that I hope you and Miss Bold will excuse me . '' 
`` And where the masters do n't have such beautiful long hair to be dishevelled , '' said Mr. Slope , taking up the joke and paying a compliment at the same time . 
Eleanor thought he might as well have left the compliment alone ; but she said nothing and looked nothing , being occupied as she was with the baby . 
Miss Bold had heard Mr. Slope say he had something pressing to say to Eleanor , and thinking that she might be de trop , took this opportunity of getting herself out of the room . 
`` I am glad , Mrs. Bold , to have the opportunity of having ten minutes ' conversation with you alone , '' began Mr. Slope . 
Mr. Slope , we need not go back to that , '' said Eleanor . 
Eleanor made no answer , and Mr. Slope , in the eagerness of his address , edged his chair a little nearer to the widow 's seat , unperceived by her . 
`` Such being so , '' continued Mr. Slope , `` I can not ask him this question as I can ask it of you . 
Eleanor made a little motion with her head which was hardly confirmatory , but Mr. Slope if he noticed it did not appear to do so . 
`` Of course , '' said he . 
`` My dear Mrs. Bold , I give you my word that such was the case , '' said he , again getting a little nearer to her . 
`` I hear Miss Bold 's step , '' said Mr. Slope ; `` would it be asking too great a favour to beg you to -- I know you can manage anything with Miss Bold . '' 
said Mr. Slope , in a manner almost impassioned . 
`` Then , Mr. Slope , there is an end of it . '' 
`` No , my friend -- not so , '' said he . 
`` Out of the question , '' said Mr. Slope , laughing slightly ; `` of course no such demand shall be made on your father . 
`` I suppose not , '' said Slope ; and he again drew near to Mrs. Bold , so that now they were very close to each other . 
`` Why , to tell the truth , '' said Mr. Slope , with a look of sorrow , as though he greatly bewailed the want of charity in his patron , `` the bishop fancies that he has cause of anger against your father . 
`` I only know , '' said Slope , `` that he has the best of daughters . 
`` I could do nothing , Mr. Slope , without consulting my father . '' 
said he , `` that would be useless ; you would then only be your father 's messenger . 
Mr. Slope would have given much to have had the privilege of drying them ; but he had tact enough to know that he had still a great deal to do before he could even hope for any privilege with Mrs. Bold . 
`` It cuts me to the heart to see you so grieved , '' said he . 
She was quite aware that her father would not be at all thankful to Mr. Slope ; she had a strong with to share her father 's feelings ; and yet she could not but acknowledge that Mr. Slope was very kind . 
Her father , who was generally so charitable to all men , who seldom spoke ill of any one , had warned her against Mr. Slope , and yet she did not know how to abstain from thanking him . 
What interest could be have in the matter but that which he professed ? 
Nevertheless there was that in his manner which even she distrusted . 
She felt , she did not know why , that there was something about him which ought to put her on her guard . 
Mr. Slope read all this in her hesitating manner just as plainly as though she had opened her heart to him . 
I 'm sure you will not do that Mr. Slope . '' 
The hint or two which Mr. Slope had given was by no means thrown away upon the bishop . 
He had a feeling that if he ever meant to oppose the now almost unendurable despotism of his wife , he must lose no further time in doing so ; that if he ever meant to be himself master in his own diocese , let alone his own house , he should begin at once . 
It would have been easier to have done so from the day of his consecration than now , but easier now than when Mrs. Proudie should have succeeded in thoroughly mastering the diocesan details . 
Then the proffered assistance of Mr. Slope was a great thing for him , a most unexpected and invaluable aid . 
Hitherto he had looked on the two as allied forces ; and had considered that as allies they were impregnable . 
He had begun to believe that his only chance of escape would be by the advancement of Mr. Slope to some distant and rich preferment . 
But now it seemed that one of his enemies , certainly the least potent of them , but nevertheless one very important , was willing to desert his own camp . 
Assisted by Mr. Slope what might he not do ? 
He walked up and down his little study , almost thinking that the time might come when he would be able to appropriate to his own use the big room up stairs , in which his predecessor had always sat . 
As he revolved these things in his mind a note was brought to him from Archdeacon Grantly , in which that divine begged his lordship to do him the honour of seeing him on the morrow -- would his lordship have the kindness to name an hour ? 
He bethought himself however of his new ally , and rang the bell for Mr. Slope . 
It turned out that Mr. Slope was not in the house ; and then , greatly daring , the bishop with his own unassisted spirit wrote a note to the archdeacon saying that he would see him , and naming an hour for doing so . 
If now thou art not true to thy guns , no Slope can hereafter aid thee . 
`` Well , my dear , I merely wanted to suggest to you that Mr. Slope seems to think that if Mr. Harding be not appointed , public feeling in the matter would be against us , and that the press might perhaps take it up . '' 
`` Mr. Slope seems to think ! '' 
`` And what has Mr. Slope to do with it ? 
But still Mr. Slope may be useful in finding how the wind blows , and I really thought that if we could give something else as good to the Quiverfuls -- '' `` Nonsense , '' said Mrs. Proudie ; `` it would be years before you could give them anything else that could suit them half as well , and as for the press and the public , and all that , remember there are two ways of telling a story . 
`` Mr. Slope , indeed ! 
I 'll Slope him , '' said the indignant matron to her listening progeny . 
`` I do n't know what has come to Mr. Slope . 
I believe he thinks he is to be Bishop of Barchester himself , because I 've taken him by the hand , and got your father to make him his domestic chaplain . '' 
When Mr. Slope got home he soon learnt from the bishop , as much from his manner as his words , that Mrs. Proudie 's behests in the matter of the hospital were to be obeyed . 
But he was quite decided about Mr. Harding ; and as Mr. Slope did not wish to have both the prelate and the prelatess against him , he did not at present see that he could do anything but yield . 
He merely remarked that he would of course carry out the bishop 's views , and that he was quite sure that if the bishop trusted to his own judgment things in the diocese would certainly be well ordered . 
Mr. Slope knew that if you hit a nail on the head often enough , it will penetrate at last . 
He was sitting alone in his room on the same evening when a light knock was made on his door , and before he could answer it the door was opened , and his patroness appeared . 
He was all smiles in a moment , but so was not she also . 
She took , however , the chair that was offered to her , and thus began her expostulation : -- `` Mr. Slope , I did not at all approve your conduct the other night with that Italian woman . 
`` Good gracious , my dear madam , '' said Mr. Slope , with a look of horror . 
I can not believe that you would wish to give offence in my drawing-room , Mr. Slope ; but I owe it to myself and my daughters to tell you that I disapprove your conduct . '' 
Mr. Slope opened wide his huge protruding eyes , and stared out of them with a look of well-feigned surprise . 
`` Why , Mrs. Proudie , '' said he , `` I did but fetch her something to eat when she said she was hungry . '' 
Mr. Slope turned over in his mind whether it would be well for him to tell this termagant at once that he should call on whom he liked , and do what he liked ; but he remembered that his footing in Barchester was not yet sufficiently firm , and that it would be better for him to pacify her . 
`` Undoubtedly , I did , '' said Mr. Slope , but that was because nobody else happened to be in the room . 
`` Perhaps not , but I assure you , Mr. Slope , you will fall greatly in my estimation if I find that you allow yourself to be caught by the lures of that woman . 
I know women better than you do , Mr. Slope , and you may believe me that that signora , as she calls herself , is not a fitting companion for a strict evangelical , unmarried young clergyman . '' 
How Mr. Slope would have liked to laugh at her , had he dared ! 
But he did not dare . 
So he merely said , `` I can assure you , Mrs. Proudie , the lady in question is nothing to me . '' 
`` Well , I hope not , Mr. Slope . 
But I have considered it my duty to give you this caution ; and now there is another thing I feel myself called on to speak about ; it is your conduct to the bishop , Mr. Slope . '' 
`` My conduct to the bishop , '' said he , now truly surprised and ignorant what the lady alluded to . 
`` Yes , Mr. Slope ; your conduct to the bishop . 
The fact is , Mr. Slope , you are a little inclined to take too much upon yourself . '' 
An angry spot showed itself on Mr. Slope 's cheeks , and it was with difficulty that he controlled himself . 
But he did do so , and sat quite silent while the lady went on . 
Early on the following morning Mr. Slope was summoned to the bishop 's dressing-room , and went there fully expecting that he should find his lordship very indignant , and spirited up by his wife to repeat the rebuke which she had administered on the previous day . 
Mr. Slope had resolved that at any rate from him he would not stand it , and entered the dressing-room in rather a combative disposition ; but he found the bishop in the most placid and gentlest of humours . 
`` Oh , Slope , '' said he , taking the chaplain 's proffered hand , `` Archdeacon Grantly is to call on me this morning , and I really am not fit to see him . 
Mr. Slope again pointed out to his patron that he thought he was perhaps not quite wise in his decision , and this he did sotto voce . 
But even with this precaution it was not safe to say much , and during the little that he did say , the bishop made a very slight , but still a very ominous gesture with his thumb towards the door which opened from his dressing-room to some inner sanctuary . 
Mr. Slope at once took the hint , and said no more ; but he perceived that there was to be confidence between him and his patron , that the league desired by him was to be made , and that this appointment of Mr. Quiverful was to be the last sacrifice offered on the altar of conjugal obedience . 
All this Mr. Slope read in the slight motion of the bishop 's thumb , and he read it correctly . 
The bargain was understood between them , and Mr. Slope gave the bishop his band upon it . 
`` Pray be civil to the archdeacon , Mr. Slope , '' said he out loud ; `` but make him quite understand that in this matter Mr. Harding has put it out of my power to oblige him . '' 
Mr. Slope felt pretty sure that Dr. Grantly would decline the honour of seeing him , and such turned out to be the case . 
The archdeacon , when the palace door was opened to him , was greeted by a note . 
Mr. Slope presented his compliments , & c. & c . 
Mr. Slope had been charged with the bishop 's views , and if agreeable to the archdeacon , would do himself the honour , & c. & c . 
The archdeacon , however , was not agreeable , and having read his note in the hall , crumpled it up in his hand , and muttering something about sorrow for his lordship 's illness took his leave , without sending as much as a verbal message in answer to Mr. Slope 's note . 
said the archdeacon to himself as he flung himself into his brougham . 
He regarded all such excuses as subterfuges , and in the present instance he was not far wrong . 
Dr. Grantly desired to be driven to his father-in-law 's lodgings , in the High Street , and hearing from the servant that Mr. Harding was at his daughter 's , followed him to Mrs. Bold 's house , and there found him . 
`` Look at that , '' said he , throwing Mr. Slope 's crumpled note to Mr. Harding . 
`` I am to be told that if I choose I may have the honour of seeing Mr. Slope , and that too after a positive engagement with the bishop . '' 
Eleanor now said to him , with the greatest innocence , `` I wish you had seen Mr. Slope , Dr. Grantly , because I think perhaps it might have done good . '' 
Had she at once owned that she had accepted Mr. Slope , for her second husband , he could hardly have felt more convinced of her belonging body and soul to the Slope and Proudie party than he now did on hearing her express such a wish as this . 
`` See him ! '' 
She could not understand how the archdeacon could consider himself to be dragged into bad company by condescending to speak to Mr. Slope for a few minutes when the interests of her father might be served by his doing so . 
`` I was talking for a full hour yesterday to Mr. Slope , '' said she , with some little assumption of dignity , `` and I did not find myself lowered by it . '' 
`` Perhaps not , '' said he . 
No thought of love-making or love-receiving had yet found its way to her heart since the death of poor John Bold ; and if it were possible that such a thought should spring there , the man must be far different from Mr. Slope that could give it birth . 
Nevertheless Eleanor blushed deeply , for she felt she was charged with improper conduct , and she did so with the more inward pain because her father did not instantly rally to her side ; that father for whose sake and love she had submitted to be the receptacle of Mr. Slope 's confidence . 
She had given a detailed account of all that had passed to her father ; and though he had not absolutely agreed with her about Mr. Slope 's views touching the hospital , yet he had said nothing to make her think that she had been wrong in talking to him . 
Mr. Slope called here expressly to ask what papa 's wishes were about the hospital ; and as I believe he called with friendly intentions I told him . '' 
`` I believe you greatly wrong Mr. Slope , '' continued Eleanor ; `` but I have explained this to papa already ; and as you do not seem to approve of what I say , Dr. Grantly , I will with your permission leave you and papa together , '' and so saying she walked slowly out of the room . 
It was quite clear that the archdeacon and his wife had made up their minds that Eleanor was going to marry Mr. Slope . 
She had full right to please herself , and he , as a father , could not say that she would disgrace herself by marrying a clergyman who stood so well before the world as Mr. Slope did . 
As for quarrelling with his daughter on account of such a marriage , and separating himself from her as the archdeacon had threatened to do , that , with Mr. Harding , would be out of the question . 
And then it must be remembered that such a marriage as that which the archdeacon contemplated with disgust , which we who know Mr. Slope so well would regard with equal disgust , did not appear so monstrous to Mr. Harding , because in his charity he did not hate the chaplain as the archdeacon did , and as we do . 
Mr. Harding also explained to his son-in-law what had been the purport , at any rate the alleged purport , of Mr. Slope 's last visit to the widow . 
He , however , stated that he could not bring himself to believe that Mr. Slope had any real anxiety such as that he had pretended . 
But not by Mr. Slope 's assistance . 
If that be necessary we 'll lose it ; but we 'll have it , spite of his teeth , if we can . 
Of Mr. Slope he made no mention whatsoever . 
It was then settled that Mr. Harding should go out to Plumstead on the following day ; and after considerable discussion on the matter the archdeacon proposed to ask Eleanor there also , so as to withdraw her , if possible , from Mr. Slope 's attentions . 
`` A week or two , '' said he , `` may teach her what he is , and while she is there she will be out of harm 's way . 
Mr. Slope wo n't come there after her . '' 
said the archdeacon , still fearful of Mr. Slope . 
Mr. Slope is certainly becoming of some importance in Barchester . 
She had not been seated for above five minutes when the door again opened , and Mr. Slope was announced . 
She felt rather surprised , because she was told that nobody was to be there , and it was very evident from the manner of some of them , that Mr. Slope was not unexpected . 
In such invitations a bachelor or two more or less are always spoken of as nobodies , and there was no reason why Mr. Slope should not drink tea at Dr. Stanhope 's as well as Eleanor herself . 
He , however , was very much surprised and not very much gratified at finding that his own embryo spouse made one of the party . 
He had come there to gratify himself by gazing on Madame Neroni 's beauty , and listening to and returning her flattery : and though he had not owned as much to himself , he still felt that if he spent the evening as he had intended to do , he might probably not thereby advance his suit with Mrs. Bold . 
The signora , who had no idea of a rival , received Mr. Slope with her usual marks of distinction . 
As he took her hand , she made some confidential communication to him in a low voice , declaring that she had a plan to communicate to him after tea , and was evidently prepared to go on with her work of reducing the chaplain to a state of captivity . 
Poor Mr. Slope was rather beside himself . 
He thought that Eleanor could not but have learnt from his demeanour that he was an admirer of her own , and he had also flattered himself that the idea was not unacceptable to her . 
What would she think of him if he now devoted himself to a married woman ! 
But Eleanor was not inclined to be severe in her criticisms on him in this respect , and felt no annoyance of any kind , when she found herself seated between Bertie and Charlotte Stanhope . 
She had no suspicion of Mr. Slope 's intentions ; she had no suspicion even of the suspicion of other people ; but still she felt well pleased not to have Mr. Slope too near to her . 
Charlotte Stanhope well knew the rule as to three being no company , and she had therefore to induce her sister to allow Mr. Slope to accompany them . 
`` Come , Mr. Slope , '' she said ; `` I 'm sure you 'll join us . 
But Charlotte 's eyes said nothing of the sort to Mr. Slope . 
He had no objection at all to the tête-à-tête with the signora , which the departure of the other three would allow him , and gently whispered to her , `` I shall not leave you alone . '' 
Pray join them , Mr. Slope , but when you come in speak to me for five minutes before you leave us . '' 
Mr. Slope understood that he was to go , and he therefore joined the party in the hall . 
He would have had no objection at all to this arrangement , if he could have secured Mrs. Bold 's arm ; but this of course was out of the question . 
Indeed , his fate was very soon settled , for no sooner had he reached the hall-door than Miss Stanhope put her hand within his arm , and Bertie walked off with Eleanor just as naturally as though she were already his own property . 
And so they sauntered forth : first they walked round the close , according to their avowed intent ; then they went under the old arched gateway below St. Cuthbert 's little church , and they they turned behind the grounds of the bishop 's palace , and so on till they came to the bridge just at the edge of the town , from which passers-by can look down into the gardens of Hiram 's Hospital ; and here Charlotte and Mr. Slope , who were in advance , stopped till the other two came up to them . 
Mr. Slope knew that the gable-ends and old brick chimneys which stood up so prettily in the moonlight , were those of Mr. Harding 's late abode , and would not have stopped on such a spot , in such company , if he could have avoided it ; but Miss Stanhope would not take the hint which he tried to give . 
`` And , he , '' said Bertie , pointing on to Mr. Slope , `` what part does he take in it ? '' 
Eleanor explained how Mr. Slope had at first endeavoured to tyrannise over her father , but how he had latterly come round , and done all he could to talk the bishop over in Mr. Harding 's favour . 
She looked somewhat sad and melancholy , but not more so perhaps than was sufficient to excite additional interest in the bosom of Mr. Slope ; and she was soon deep in whispered intercourse with that happy gentleman , who was allowed to find a restingplace on her sofa . 
He did not make love to her , nor sigh , nor look languishing ; but he was amusing and familiar , yet respectful ; and when he left Eleanor at her own door at one o'clock , which he did by the bye with the assistance of the now jealous Slope , she thought that he was one of the most agreeable men , and the Stanhopes decidedly the most agreeable family that she had ever met . 
Mrs. Grantly knew this , and did not , therefore , expect confidence from her sister ; and yet she longed to ask her whether in real truth Mr. Slope was agreeable to her . 
It was by no means difficult to turn the conversation to Mr. Slope . 
The abuse of other people , and abuse of a nature that she felt to be unjust , imposed this necessity on her , and at last made Mr. Slope 's defence an habitual course of argument with her . 
From Mr. Slope the conversation turned to the Stanhopes , and Mrs. Grantly was listening with some interest to Eleanor 's account of the family , when it dropped out that Mr. Slope made one of the party . 
said the lady of the rectory , `` was Mr. Slope there too ? '' 
`` Why , Eleanor , he must be very fond of you , I think ; he seems to follow you everywhere . '' 
She merely laughed , and said that she imagined Mr. Slope found other attraction at Dr. Stanhope 's . 
The archdeacon of course heard before dinner that Eleanor had remained the day before in Barchester with the view of meeting Mr. Slope , and that she had so met him . 
He remembered how she had positively stated that there were to be no guests at the Stanhopes , and he did not hesitate to accuse her of deceit . 
Moreover , the fact , or rather presumed fact , of her being deceitful on such a matter , spoke but too plainly in evidence against her as to her imputed crime of receiving Mr. Slope as a lover . 
`` And so soon , too , '' said Mrs. Grantly , who thought more , perhaps , of her sister 's indecorum in having a lover before she had put off her weeds , than her bad taste in having such a lover as Mr. Slope . 
To this Eleanor assented , making condition that the visitors should be of their own set , and the archdeacon cogitated in his mind whether by such a condition it was intended that Mr. Slope should be included , resolving also that , if so , the trial would certainly never take place in the rectory drawing-room at Plumstead . 
He was a clergyman of the old school , and this recommended him to the lady . 
He had always been an opponent of free trade as long as free trade was an open question ; and now that it was no longer so , he , being a clergyman , had not been obliged , like most of his lay Tory companions , to read his recantation . 
Then he took a little merit to himself for having studiously provided the best man he could without reference to patronage or favour ; but he did not say that the best man according to his views was he who was best able to subdue Mr. Slope , and make that gentleman 's situation in Barchester too hot to be comfortable . 
As to the bonds , they had consisted in the exceeding struggle which he had made to get a good clergyman for them . 
He deprecated any comparison between himself and St. Paul , but said that he was entitled to beseech them for their good will towards Mr. Arabin , in the same manner that the apostle had besought Philemon and his household with regard to Onesimus . 
Eleanor made the house agreeable , and the archdeacon and Mrs. Grantly seemed to have forgotten her iniquity as regarded Mr. Slope . 
It will be remembered that the bishop expressed to Mr. Slope in his dressing room , his determination that Mr. Quiverful should be confirmed in his appointment to the hospital , and that his lordship requested Mr. Slope to communicate this decision to the archdeacon . 
It will also be remembered that the archdeacon had indignantly declined seeing Mr. Slope , and had instead , written a strong letter to the bishop , in which he all but demanded the situation of warden for Mr. Harding . 
To this letter the archdeacon received an immediate formal reply from Mr. Slope , in which it was stated , that the bishop had received and would give his best consideration to the archdeacon 's letter . 
But Mr. Harding had another friend fighting his battle for him , quite as powerful as the master of lazarus , and this was Mr. Slope . 
Though the bishop had so pertinaciously insisted on giving way to his wife in the matter of the hospital , Mr. Slope did not think it necessary to abandon his object . 
He had , he thought , daily more and more reason to imagine that the widow would receive his overtures favourably , and he could not but feel that Mr. Harding at the hospital , and placed there by his means , would be more likely to receive him as a son-in-law , than Mr. Harding growling in opposition and disappointment under the archdeacon 's wing at Plumstead . 
Moreover , to give Mr. Slope due credit , he was actuated by greater motives even than these . 
He wanted a wife , and he wanted money , but he wanted power more than either . 
He had fully realised the fact that he must come to blows with Mrs. Proudie . 
He had no desire to remain in Barchester as her chaplain . 
Sooner than do so , he would risk the loss of his whole connection with the diocese . 
was he to feel within him the possession of no ordinary talents ; was he to know him self to be courageous , firm , and , in matters where his conscience did not interfere , unscrupulous ; and yet be contented to be the working factotum of a woman-prelate ? 
Mr. Slope had higher ideas of his own destiny . 
Either he or Mrs. Proudie must go to the wall ; and now had come the time when he would try which it should be . 
As Mr. Slope went down stairs prepared to see the archdeacon if necessary , but fully satisfied that no such necessity would arise , he declared to himself that Mr. Harding should be warden . 
He had felt that his brother clergymen , men whom he had known for the last twenty years , looked coldly on him from the first moment that he had shown himself willing to sit at the feet of Mr. Slope ; he had seen that their looks grew colder still , when it became bruited about that he was to be the bishop 's new warden at Hiram 's hospital . 
He thought of these things ; and do thou also , reader , think of them , and then wonder , if thou canst , that Mr. Slope had appeared to him to possess all those good gifts which could grace a bishop 's chaplain . 
Now , indeed , they had received a full promise , not only from Mr. Slope , but also from Mrs. Proudie . 
Such were the feelings of the different members of the family at Puddingdale on the occasion of Mr. Slope 's second visit . 
Mrs. Quiverful , as soon as she saw his horse coming up the avenue from the vicarage gate , hastily packed up her huge basket of needlework , and hurried herself and her daughter out of the room in which she was sitting with her husband . 
`` It 's Mr. Slope , '' she said . 
`` He 's come to settle with you about the hospital . 
Mr. Slope thus found Mr. Quiverful alone . 
Mr. Slope was all smiles as he shook his brother clergyman 's hand , and said that he had ridden over because he thought it right at once to put Mr. Quiverful in possession of the facts of the matter regarding the wardenship of the hospital . 
He maintained his self-possession , however , smiled with a slight unmeaning smile , and merely said that he was obliged to Mr. Slope for the trouble he was taking . 
`` It has been a troublesome matter from first to last , '' said Mr. Slope ; `` and the bishop had hardly known how to act . 
`` And acting on this refusal , I suggested that you should take the hospital , '' continued Mr. Slope . 
Mr. Slope smiled , and gently shook his head . 
He meant the smile for a pleasant smile , but it was diabolical in the eyes of the man he was speaking to . 
All this that came from Mr. Slope was so true . 
Both the bishop and Mr. Slope would be excellent friends and terrible enemies to a man in his position . 
`` Oh , of course , whatever you think fit , Mr. Slope . 
I wont deny that I am a very poor man , Mr. Slope . 
The interview ended in Mr. Slope receiving a full renunciation from Mr. Quiverful of any claim he might have to the appointment in question . 
Mr. Slope again assured him that he should not be forgotten , and then rode back to Barchester , satisfied that he would now be able to mould the bishop to his wishes . 
Doubting , but yet hardly fearing , what might have been the tenor of Mr. Slope 's discourse , she rushed back to her husband as soon as the front door was closed behind the visitor . 
It was well for Mr. Slope that he so escaped , -- the anger of such a woman , at such a moment , would have cowed even him . 
`` I had no witnesses to Mr. Slope 's offer , even if that offer would bind the bishop . 
Does n't all the world know that Mrs. Proudie is bishop of Barchester , and that Mr. Slope is merely her creature ? 
I tell you , it was that woman who sent him over here to-day , because , for some reason of her own , she wants to go back from her word . '' 
Soft , however , as Mr. Quiverful might be , he would not allow himself to be talked out of his opinion on this occasion ; and proceeded with much minuteness to explain to his wife the tone in which Mr. Slope had spoken of Mrs. Proudie 's interference in diocesan matters . 
As he did so , a new idea gradually instilled itself into the matron 's head , and a new course of conduct presented itself to her judgment . 
What if , after all , Mrs. Proudie knew nothing of this visit of Mr. Slope 's ? 
In that case , might it not be possible that that lady would still be staunch to her in this matter , still stand her friend , and , perhaps , possibly carry her through in opposition to Mr. Slope ? 
She determined that she would at once go to the palace ; that she would do so , if possible , before Mrs. Proudie could have had an interview with Mr. Slope ; and that she would be either submissive piteous and pathetic , or else indignant violent and exacting according to the manner in which she was received . 
If it were intended that she should be ill-used in the manner proposed by Mr. Slope , it should not be done under the rose . 
As she progressed in the history of her wrongs she perceived that the heavier she leant upon Mr. Slope the blacker became Mrs. Proudie 's brow , but that such blackness was not injurious to her own cause . 
When Mr. Slope was at Puddingdale vicarage that morning she had regarded him as the creature of the lady-bishop ; now she perceived that they were enemies . 
She told how Mr. Slope had cozened her husband into resigning his claim , and had declared that it was the bishop 's will that none but Mr. Harding should be warden . 
Without knocking at the door she walked quickly into her husband 's room , and found him seated at his office table , with Mr. Slope opposite to him . 
Between his fingers was the very note which he had written to the archbishop in her presence -- and it was open ! 
Yes , he had absolutely violated the seal which had been made sacred by her approval . 
Mr. Slope rose from his chair , and bowed slightly . 
Mr. Slope did not allow the bishop to answer , but replied himself . 
`` Perhaps I ought not to interfere , '' said Mr. Slope , but yet -- '' `` Certainly you ought not , '' said the infuriated dame . 
`` But yet , '' continued Mr. Slope , not regarding the interruption , `` I have thought it my imperative duty to recommend the bishop not to slight Mr. Harding 's claims . '' 
`` I understand that Mr. Harding makes no objection to the Sabbath-day school , '' said Mr. Slope . 
`` You have a very easy conscience in such matters , Mr. Slope , '' said she . 
`` I should not have an easy conscience , '' he rejoined , `` but a conscience very far from being easy , if anything said or done by me should lead the bishop to act unadvisedly in this matter . 
Mr. Slope had risen from his chair , and was standing with his hand on the back of it , looking at first very solemn and now very black . 
There would be the comfort of quiet in either case ; but if the bishop had a wish as to which might prove the victor , that wish was certainly not antagonistic to Mr. Slope . 
`` I think , Mrs. Proudie , that under all the circumstances it will be better for me not to answer such a question , '' said Mr. Slope . 
Mr. Slope had many tones in his voice , all duly under his command ; among them was a sanctified low tone , and a sanctified loud tone ; and he now used the former . 
`` Mrs. Proudie , '' said Mr. Slope , `` I am quite aware how much I owe to your kindness . 
`` Mr. Slope , '' she said , with slow and dignified voice , differing much from that which she had hitherto used , `` Mr. Slope , I will trouble you , if you please , to leave the apartment . 
Mr. Slope also felt that everything depended on the present interview . 
Mr. Slope had told him that no consideration ought to induce him to refuse the archbishop 's invitation ; he had therefore hope to influence him . 
He had accepted Mr. Quiverful 's resignation , and therefore dreaded having to renew that matter with his wife . 
He had been screwed up to the pitch of asserting a will of his own , and might possibly be carried on till by an absolute success he should have been taught how possible it was to succeed . 
It was now that Mr. Slope must make himself master of the diocese , or else resign his place and begin his search for fortune again . 
He saw all this plainly . 
After what had taken place any compromise between him and the lady was impossible . 
Let him once leave the room at her bidding , and leave the bishop in her hands , and he might at once pack up his portmanteau and bid adieu to episcopal honours , Mrs. Bold , and the Signora Neroni . 
`` Mr. Slope , '' she repeated , `` I wish to be alone with my lord . '' 
`` His lordship has summoned me on most important diocesan business , '' said Mr. Slope , glancing with uneasy eye at Dr. Proudie . 
He felt that he must trust something to the bishop , and yet that that trust was so woefully ill-placed . 
`` My leaving him at the present moment is , I fear , impossible . '' 
`` My lord , will you do me the favour to beg Mr. Slope to leave the room ? '' 
This was as much as Mr. Slope expected from him , and was on the whole , for him , an active exercise of marital rights . 
`` My lord , '' said the lady , `` Is Mr. Slope to leave this room , or am I ? '' 
She should not have expressed the idea that her order for Mr. Slope 's expulsion could be treated otherwise than by immediate obedience . 
`` Why , my dear , '' said he , `` Mr. Slope and I are very busy . '' 
Mr. Slope saw at once the full amount of his gain , and turned on the vanquished lady a look of triumph which she never forgot and never forgave . 
Here he was wrong . 
He should have looked humbly at her , and with meek entreating eye have deprecated her anger . 
He should have said by his glance that he asked pardon for his success , and that he hoped forgiveness for the stand which he had been forced to make in the cause of duty . 
So might he perchance have somewhat mollified that imperious bosom , and prepared the way for future terms . 
But Mr. Slope meant to rule without terms . 
Can you cause that little trembling victim to be divorced from the woman that possesses him ? 
Is he not flesh of her flesh and bone of her bone , and must he not so continue ? 
It is very well now for you to stand your ground , and triumph as she is driven ignominiously from the room ; but can you be present when those curtains are drawn , when that awful helmet of proof has been tied beneath the chin , when the small remnants of the bishops 's prowess shall be cowed by the tassel above his head ? 
But for the moment Mr. Slope 's triumph was complete ; for Mrs. Proudie without further parley left the room , and did not forget to shut the door after her . 
Then followed a close conference between the new allies , in which was said much which it astonished Mr. Slope to say and the bishop to hear . 
He soon admitted by silence his state of vassalage , and pledged himself , with Mr. Slope 's assistance , to change his courses . 
Mr. Slope also did not make out a bad case for himself . 
He explained how it grieved him to run counter to a lady who had always been his patroness , who had befriended him in so many ways , who had , in fact , recommended him to the bishop 's notice ; but , as he stated , his duty was now imperative ; he held a situation of peculiar confidence , and was immediately and especially attached to the bishop 's person . 
The bishop took this for what it was worth , and Mr. Slope only intended that he should do so . 
It gilded the pill which Mr. Slope had to administer , and which the bishop thought would be less bitter than that other pill which he had so long been taking . 
`` My lord , '' had his immediate reward , like a good child . 
He was instructed to write and at once did write another note to the archbishop accepting his grace 's invitation . 
This note Mr. Slope , more prudent than the lady , himself took away and posted with his own hands . 
Thus he made sure that this act of self-jurisdiction should be as nearly as possible a fait accompli . 
He begged , and coaxed , and threatened the bishop with a view of making him also write at once to Mr. Harding ; but the bishop , though temporally emancipated from his wife , was not yet enthralled to Mr. Slope . 
He said , and probably said truly , that such an offer must be made in some official form ; that he was not yet prepared to sign the form ; and that he should prefer seeing Mr. Harding before he did so . 
Mr. Slope might , however , beg Mr. Harding to call upon him . 
Not disappointed with his achievement Mr. Slope went his way . 
He first posted the precious note which he had in his pocket , and then pursued other enterprises in which we must follow him in other chapters . 
The meaning of this was that she would n't have Mr. Quiverful 's promised appointment cozened away by the treachery of Mr. Slope and the weakness of her husband . 
But she did not at all like to hear him abused by others , and began to vindicate him , and to explain that of course he had taken Mr. Slope to be an emisssary from Mrs. Proudie herself ; that Mr. Slope was thought to be peculiarly her friend ; and that , therefore , Mr. Quiverful would have been failing in respect to her had he assumed to doubt what Mr. Slope had said . 
Mr. Slope , as we have said , left the palace with a feeling of considerable triumph . 
Not that he thought that his difficulties were all over ; he did not so deceive himself ; but he felt that he had played his first move well , as well as the pieces on the board would allow ; and that he had nothing with which to reproach himself . 
He first of all posted the letter to the archbishop , and having made that sure he proceeded to push the advantage which he had gained . 
Had Mrs. Bold been at home , he would have called on her ; but he knew that she was at Plumstead , so he wrote the following note . 
It was the beginning of what , he trusted , might be a long and tender series of epistles . 
Now this letter , taken as a whole , and with the consideration that Mr. Slope wished to assume a great degree of intimacy with Eleanor , would not have been bad , but for the allusion to the tresses . 
But Mr. Slope could not be expected to be aware of this . 
He longed to put a little affection into his epistle , and yet he thought it injudicious , as the letter would , he knew , be shown to Mr. Harding . 
We will now follow Mr. Slope so as to complete the day with him , and then return to his letter and its momentous fate in the next chapter . 
Of the wisdom of this maxim Mr. Slope was ignorant , and accordingly , having written his letter to Mrs. Bold , he proceeded to call upon the Signora Neroni . 
Indeed it was hard to say which was the old love and which the new , Mr. Slope having been smitten with both so nearly at the same time . 
Perhaps he thought it not amiss to have two strings to his bow . 
But two strings to Cupid 's bow are always dangerous to him on whose behalf they are to be used . 
But in sooth Mr. Slope was pursuing Mrs. Bold in obedience to his better instincts , and the signora in obedience to his worser . 
Had he won the widow and worn her , no one could have blamed him . 
You , O reader , and I and Eleanor 's other friends would have received the story of such a winning with much disgust and disappointment ; but we should have been angry with Eleanor , not with Mr. Slope . 
Mr. Slope was aware that she was a helpless hopeless cripple . 
But Mr. Slope could not help himself . 
He knew that he was wrong in devoting his time to the back drawing-room in Dr. Stanhope 's house . 
He knew that what took place there would if divulged utterly ruin him with Mrs. Bold . 
He knew that scandal would soon come upon his heels and spread abroad among the black coats of Barchester some tidings , exaggerated tidings , of the sighs which he poured into the lady 's ears . 
He knew that he was acting against the recognised principles of his life , against those laws of conduct by which he hoped to achieve much higher success . 
But as we have said , he could not help himself . 
Passion , for the first time in his life , passion was too strong for him . 
As for the signora , no such plea can be put forward for her , for in truth she cared no more for Mr. Slope than she did for twenty others who had been at her feet before him . 
She willingly , nay greedily , accepted his homage . 
He was the finest fly that Barchester had hitherto afforded to her web ; and the signora was a powerful spider that made wondrous webs , and could in no way live without catching flies . 
She had lived out her heart , such heart as she had ever had , in her early years , at an age when Mr. Slope was thinking of the second book of Euclid and his unpaid bill at the buttery hatch . 
Mr. Slope was madly in love , but hardly knew it . 
The signora spitted him , as a boy does a cockchafer on a cork , that she might enjoy the energetic agony of his gyrations . 
Mr. Slope having added to his person all such adornments as are possible to a clergyman making a morning visit , such as a clean neck tie , clean handkerchief , new gloves , and a soupçon of not unnecessary scent , called about three o'clock at the doctor 's door . 
Mr. Slope , as was his custom , asked for Mr. Stanhope , and was told , as was the servant 's custom , that the signora was in the drawing-room . 
Upstairs he accordingly went . 
He found her , as he always did , lying on her sofa with a French volume before her , and a beautiful little inlaid writing case open on her table . 
At the moment of his entrance she was in the act of writing . 
`` Ah my friend , '' said she , putting out her left hand to him across her desk , `` I did not expect you to-day , and was this very instant writing to you -- '' Mr. Slope , taking the soft fair delicate hand in his , and very soft and fair and delicate it was , bowed over it his huge red head and kissed it . 
Mr. Slope was big , awkward , cumbrous , and having his heart in his pursuit , was ill at ease . 
The lady was fair , as we have said , and delicate ; every thing about her was fine and refined ; her hand in his looked like a rose lying among carrots , and when he kissed it he looked as a cow might do on finding such a flower among her food . 
Mr. Slope , '' said she , `` I hope you do n't mean to say you keep all the trash I write to you . 
Mr. Slope , whatever you do , never mingle love and business . '' 
Mr. Slope blushed up to his eyes , and over his mottled forehead to the very roots of his hair . 
He felt sure that the signora knew all about his intentions with reference to Mrs. Bold . 
His conscience told him that he was detected . 
His doom was to be spoken ; he was to be punished for his duplicity , and rejected by the beautiful creature before him . 
He little dreamt that had all his intentions with reference to Mrs. Bold been known to the signora , it would only have added zest to that lady 's amusement . 
It was all very well to have Mr. Slope at her feet , to show her power by making an utter fool of a clergyman , to gratify her own infidelity by thus proving the little strength which religion had in controlling the passions even of a religious man ; but it would be an increased gratification if she could be made to understand that she was at the same time alluring her victim away from another , whose love if secured would be in every way beneficent and salutary . 
The signora had indeed discovered , with the keen instinct of such a woman , that Mr. Slope was bent on matrimony with Mrs. Bold , but in alluding to Dido she had not thought of it . 
Which is it to be with you , Mr. Slope , love or money ? '' 
Mr. Slope was not so ready with a pathetic answer as he usually was with touching episodes in his extempore sermons . 
He felt that he ought to say something pretty , something also that should remove the impression on the mind of his lady-love . 
But he was rather put about how to do it . 
`` Love , '' said he , `` true overpowering love , must be the strongest passion a man can feel ; it must control every other wish , and put aside every other pursuit . 
But with me love will never act in that way unless it be returned ; '' and he threw upon the signora a look of tenderness which was intended to make up for all the deficiencies of his speech . 
`` Oh , no , '' said Mr. Slope , feeling himself bound to enter some protest against so very unorthodox a doctrine , `` this world 's wealth will make no one happy . '' 
said she , raising herself up , and speaking to him with energy across the table . 
`` And the search is always in vain , '' said Mr. Slope . 
`` I have the natural ambition of a man , '' said he . 
Mr. Slope was startled and horrified , but he felt that he could not answer . 
How could he stand up and preach the lessons of his Master , being there as he was , on the devil 's business ? 
He was a true believer , otherwise this would have been nothing to him . 
He had audacity for most things , but he had not audacity to make a plaything of the Lord 's word . 
All this the signora understood , and felt much interest as she saw her cockchafer whirl round upon her pin . 
said she ; `` you quite mistake the principles of my composition if you imagine that there is such a thing about me . '' 
If Mr. Slope allowed himself to be deceived , it was his own fault . 
Nothing could have been more open than her declarations about herself . 
The little writing table with her desk was still standing before her , a barrier , as it were , against the enemy . 
She was sitting as nearly upright as she ever did , and he had brought a chair close to the sofa , so that there was only the corner of the table between him and her . 
It so happened that as she spoke her hand lay upon the table , and as Mr. Slope answered her he put his hand upon hers . 
said he . 
`` That is a heavy charge which you bring against yourself , and one of which I can not find you guilty -- '' She withdrew her hand , not quickly and angrily , as though insulted by his touch , but gently and slowly . 
`` You are in no condition to give a verdict on the matter , '' said she , `` as you have not tried me . 
As for you , you will take your vows where they will result in something more substantial than the pursuit of such a ghostlike , ghastly love as mine -- '' `` Your love should be sufficient to satisfy the dream of a monarch , '' said Mr. Slope , not quite clear as to the meaning of his words . 
`` Say an archbishop , Mr. Slope , '' said she . 
she was very cruel to him . 
He went round again upon his cork on this allusion to his profession . 
He tried , however , to smile , and gently accused her of joking on a matter , which was , he said , to him of such vital moment . 
`` Why -- what gulls do you men make of us , '' she replied . 
Now look me in the face , Mr. Slope , boldly and openly . '' 
Mr. Slope did look at her with a languishing loving eye , and as he did so he again put forth his hand to get hold of hers . 
`` I told you to look at me boldly , Mr. Slope ; but confine your boldness to your eyes . '' 
he sighed . 
`` Well , my name is Madeline , '' said she ; `` but none except my own family usually call me so . 
Now look me in the face , Mr. Slope . 
Mr. Slope never had said so . 
If he had come there with any formed plan at all , his intention was to make love to the lady without uttering any such declaration . 
It was , however , quite impossible that he should now deny his love . 
He had , therefore , nothing for it but to go down on his knees distractedly against the sofa , and swear that he did love her with a love passing the love of man . 
Poor Mr. Slope went round and round in mortal agony . 
In such a condition as his it was really very hard for him to know what answer to give . 
And yet no answer would be his surest condemnation . 
He might as well at once plead guilty to the charge brought against him . 
said he . 
`` I am not , '' said he . 
And as he said it he almost hated , with an exquisite hatred , the woman whom he could not help loving with an exquisite love . 
`` I am not , '' said Mr. Slope , to whom the word worshipper was peculiarly distasteful . 
Come , Mr. Slope , let me give you advice on this matter . 
`` If that were cruelty , Mr. Slope , what might you say of me if I were to declare that I returned your passion ? 
Mr. Slope was not on his knees all this time . 
After his declaration of love he had risen from them as quickly as he thought consistent with the new position which he now filled , and as he stood was leaning on the back of his chair . 
This outburst of tenderness on the Signora 's part quite overcame him , and made him feel for the moment that he could sacrifice everything to be assured of the love of the beautiful creature before him , maimed , lame , and already married as she was . 
said he , now seating himself on her sofa , and pushing away the table with his foot . 
said she . 
`` Oh , Madeline , I will only love you , '' and again he caught her hand and devoured it with kisses . 
Now she did not draw it from him , but sat there as he kissed it , looking at him with her great eyes , just as a great spider would look at a great fly that was quite securely caught . 
`` Suppose Signor Neroni were to come to Barchester , '' said she , `` would you make his acquaintance ? '' 
said he . 
said she , again having recourse to that horrid quizzing voice which Mr. Slope so particularly hated . 
said he . 
Mr. Slope tried hard within himself to cast off the pollution with which he felt that he was defiling his soul . 
He strove to tear himself away from the noxious siren that had bewitched him . 
But he could not do it . 
He could not be again heart free . 
He had looked for rapturous joy in loving this lovely creature , and he already found that he met with little but disappointment and self-rebuke . 
He had come across the fruit of the Dead Sea , so sweet and delicious to the eye , so bitter and nauseous to the taste . 
He had put the apple to his mouth , and it had turned to ashes between his teeth . 
Yet he could not tear himself away . 
He knew , he could not but know , that she jeered at him , ridiculed his love , and insulted the weakness of his religion . 
But she half permitted his adoration , and that half permission added such fuel to his fire that all the fountain of his piety could not quench it . 
He began to feel savage , irritated , and revengeful . 
He meditated some severity of speech , some taunt that should cut her , as her taunts cut him . 
He reflected as he stood there for a moment , silent before her , that if he desired to quell her proud spirit , he should do so by being prouder even than herself ; that if he wished to have her at his feet suppliant for his love it behoved him to conquer her by indifference . 
All this passed through his mind . 
As far as dead knowledge went , he knew , or thought he knew , how a woman should be tamed . 
But when he essayed to bring his tactics to bear , he failed like a child . 
Mr. Slope loved furiously , insanely and truly ; but he had never played the game of love . 
And so she continued to insult him , and he continued to bear it . 
said she , in answer to some renewed vapid declaration of his passion , `` how often has the same thing been said , and how invariably with the same falsehood ! '' 
`` Falsehood , '' said he . 
Mr. Slope should have taken her at her word . 
She would have drawn back , and he would have had the full advantage of the offer . 
But he did not . 
Instead of doing so , he stood wrapt in astonishment , passing his fingers through his lank red hair , and thinking as he stared upon her animated countenance that her wondrous beauty grew more wonderful as he gazed on it . 
`` Come , Mr. Slope ; do n't talk of sacrificing the world again . 
It was impossible for him to answer this . 
In order to be in any way dignfied , he felt that he must be silent . 
and she again put out her hand to him . 
He sat himself down in the chair beside her , and took her proffered hand and leant over her . 
Mr. Slope promised that he would call again on the following day . 
`` And , Mr. Slope , '' she continued , `` pray answer my note . 
Mr. Slope said but little on the subject of Sabbath schools , but he made his adieu , and betook himself home with a sad heart , troubled mind , and uneasy conscience . 
It will be remembered that Mr. Slope , when leaving his billet doux at the house of Mrs. Bold , had been informed that it would be sent out to her at Plumstead that afternoon . 
Accordingly they did so call , and the maid , as she handed to the coachman a small basket and large bundle carefully and neatly packed , gave in at the carriage window Mr. Slope 's epistle . 
The archdeacon , who was sitting next to the window , took it , and immediately recognised the hand-writing of his enemy . 
said he . 
`` Mr. Slope called with it himself , your reverence , '' said the girl ; `` and was very anxious that missus should have it to-day . '' 
He looked at it as though he held a basket of adders . 
He could not have thought worse of the document had he read it and discovered it to be licentious and atheistical . 
He did , moreover , what so many wise people are accustomed to do in similar circumstances ; he immediately condemned the person to whom the letter was written , as though she were necessarily a particeps criminis . 
Poor Mr. Harding , though by no means inclined to forward Mr. Slope 's intimacy with his daughter , would have given anything to have kept the letter from his son-in-law . 
There it was in his hand ; and he looked as thoroughly disgusted as though he were quite sure that it contained all the rhapsodies of a favoured lover . 
`` It 's very hard on me , '' said he , after awhile , `` that this should go on under my roof . '' 
Having invited his sister-in-law to his house , it was a natural consequence that she should receive her letters there . 
And if Mr. Slope chose to write to her , his letter would , as a matter of course , be sent after her . 
He had shown that he thought Mrs. Bold to be a fit person to stay with him by his asking her to do so , and it was most cruel to her that he should complain of her violating the sanctity of his rooftree , when the laches committed were none of her committing . 
If Eleanor did receive a letter from Mr. Slope what was there in that to pollute the purity of Dr. Grantly 's household ? 
He was indignant that his daughter should be so judged and so spoken of ; and he made up his mind that even as Mrs. Slope she must be dearer to him than any other creature on God 's earth . 
`` Here , '' said the archdeacon , handing the offensive missile to his father-in-law ; `` I am not going to be the bearer of his love letters . 
She has a right to correspond with whom she pleases , and I shall not take upon myself to blame her because she gets a letter from Mr. Slope . '' 
That the whole thing was as good as arranged between Eleanor and Mr. Slope there was no longer any room to doubt . 
Mr. Harding disliked Mr. Slope as much as it was in his nature to dislike any man . 
Had his daughter wished to do her worst to displease him by a second marriage , she could hardly have succeeded better than by marrying Mr. Slope . 
But , as he said to himself now very often , what right had he to condemn her if she did nothing that was really wrong ? 
If she liked Mr. Slope it was her affair . 
It was indeed miraculous to him that a woman with such a mind , so educated , so refined , so nice in her tastes , should like such a man . 
She had never seen Mr. Slope 's hand-writing , or if so had forgotten it ; and did not think of him as she twisted the letter as people do twist letters when they do not immediately recognise their correspondents either by the writing or the seal . 
At last , sitting before her toilet table , she broke the seal , and turning over the leaf saw Mr. Slope 's name . 
She felt , on the whole , grateful to Mr. Slope , and anxious to get on her dress that she might run with the news to her father . 
Then she came to the allusion to her own pious labours , and she said in her heart that Mr. Slope was an affected ass . 
Then she went on again and was offended by her boy being called Mr. Slope 's darling -- he was nobody 's darling but her own ; or at any rate not the darling of a disagreeable stranger like Mr. Slope . 
She could not keep from her father the news about the hospital , nor could she comfortably confess the letter from Mr. Slope before the Grantlys . 
Eleanor knew in her heart that they had been talking about her , and her heart misgave her as she thought of Mr. Slope and his letter . 
He opened his eyes and his mouth and said in a sort of whisper `` Mr. Slope ! '' 
He had desired her to speak gravely to Eleanor , and to tell her that , if she persisted in her adherence to Mr. Slope , she could no longer look for the countenance of her present friends . 
`` Was it not from Mr. Slope ? '' 
Eleanor said that the letter was from Mr. Slope . 
`` Is he a regular correspondent of yours , Eleanor ? '' 
Mrs. Grantly , she knew , was instigated by the archdeacon , and she would not plead to any arraignment made against her by him . 
`` But , Eleanor dear , why do you get letters from Mr. Slope at all , knowing , as you do , he is a person so distasteful to papa , and to the archdeacon , and indeed to all your friends ? '' 
`` In the first place , Susan , I do n't get letters from him ; and in the next place , as Mr. Slope wrote the one letter which I have got , and as I only received it , which I could not very well help doing , as papa handed it to me , I think you had better ask Mr. Slope instead of me . '' 
`` What was his letter about , Eleanor ? '' 
`` Well , dear , '' said the other , `` I can not but tell you that I do not think Mr. Slope a proper correspondent for you . '' 
`` If he be ever so improper , how can I help his having written to me ? 
But you are all prejudiced against him to such an extent , that that which would be kind and generous in another man is odious and impudent in him . 
`` We all want you to drop Mr. Slope . '' 
I see no harm in Mr. Slope 's acquaintance , and I shall not insult the man by telling him that I do . 
He has thought it necessary to write to me , and I do not want the archdeacon 's advice about the letter . 
`` Then , Eleanor , it is my duty to tell you , '' and now she spoke with a tremendous gravity , `` that the archdeacon thinks that such a correspondence is disgraceful , and that he can not allow it to go on in his house . '' 
And as for the word disgraceful , if Dr. Grantly has used it of me he has been unmanly and inhospitable , '' and she walked off to the door . 
I will show him Mr. Slope 's letter , but I will show it to no one else . '' 
The idea that she could be thought by her friends to regard Mr. Slope as a lover , had never flashed upon her . 
She conceived that they were all prejudiced and illiberal in their persecution of him , and therefore she would not join in the persecution , even though she greatly disliked the man . 
And then a thought struck her that Mr. Arabin might perchance hear of her `` disgraceful '' correspondence with Mr. Slope , and she turned crimson with pure vexation . 
If she could have conceived that Mr. Arabin had been informed as a fact that she was going to marry Mr. Slope ! 
The fact that a lady of his household had received a letter from Mr. Slope had wounded his pride in the sorest place , and nothing could control him . 
There , I got that letter from Mr. Slope before dinner . 
His first feeling was one of unmitigated disgust that Mr. Slope should have chosen to interfere in his behalf . 
He had been anxious to get back to the hospital , but he would have infinitely sooner resigned all pretensions to the place , than have owed it in any manner to Mr. Slope 's influence in his favour . 
Then he thoroughly disliked the tone of Mr. Slope 's letter ; it was unctuous , false , and unwholesome , like the man . 
It was impossible that Mr. Slope should so write unless he had been encouraged . 
It was impossible Eleanor should have received such a letter , and have received it without annoyance , unless she were willing to encourage him . 
She was not responsible for what Mr. Slope might write . 
She had given it to him to read , as a vindication for herself and also for him . 
The father 's spirits sank within him as he felt that he could not acquit her . 
She thought it necessary that he should know what Mr. Slope had to say . 
It was nauseous to her to have a man like Mr. Slope commenting on her personal attractions ; and she did not think it necessary to dilate with her father upon what was nauseous . 
`` Susan tells me that you received a letter this evening from Mr. Slope . '' 
But is not the fact of your receiving letters from Mr. Slope , which you do not wish to show to your friends , a circumstance which must excite some -- some surprise -- some suspicion -- '' `` Suspicion ! '' 
`` No , Dr. Grantly , I did not choose to show Mr. Slope 's letter to Susan . 
To him it appeared to be in almost every respect the letter of a declared lover ; it seemed to corroborate his worst suspicions ; and the fact of Eleanor 's showing it to him was all but tantamount to a declaration on her part , that it was her pleasure to receive love-letters from Mr. Slope . 
He almost entirely overlooked the real subject-matter of the epistle ; so intent was he on the forthcoming courtship and marriage . 
He took it in his hand and held it up , but made no immediate overture to return it . 
said he . 
`` And , Eleanor , do you think that that is a proper letter for you -- for a person in your condition -- to receive from Mr. Slope . '' 
`` You think Mr. Slope is a messenger direct from Satan . 
I think he is an industrious , well meaning clergyman . 
She might probably have refused to talk to Dr. Grantly on the matter in dispute without any impropriety ; but having consented to listen to him , she had no business to tell him that he regarded Mr. Slope as an emissary from the evil one ; nor was she justified in praising Mr. Slope , seeing that in her heart of hearts she did not think well of him . 
You profess that it is quite proper that you should receive from Mr. Slope such letters as that you have in your hand . 
Is it worth your while to break away from all those you have loved -- from all who love you -- for the sake of Mr. Slope ? '' 
`` But you will do so if you connect yourself with Mr. Slope . 
You must choose between your sister and myself and our friends , and Mr. Slope and his friends . 
I say nothing of your father , as you may probably understand his feelings better than I do . '' 
Mr. Slope is altogether beneath you . 
You ought to know and feel that he is so . 
`` But have you spoken to Mr. Arabin about me and Mr. Slope ? '' 
`` Certainly I have , and he quite agrees with me . '' 
`` He agrees with me and Susan that it is quite impossible you should be received at Plumstead as Mrs. Slope . '' 
It appeared to her most probable that the archdeacon and Mr. Arabin had talked over her objectionable acquaintance with Mr. Slope ; that Mr. Arabin in his jeering , sarcastic way had suggested the odious match as being the severest way of treating with contumely her acquaintance with his enemy ; and that the archdeacon , taking the idea from him , thought proper to punish her by the allusion . 
But the reflection that Mr. Arabin should have in any way mentioned her name in connection with that of Mr. Slope was overpowering ; and the spiteful ill-nature of the archdeacon , in repeating the charge to her , made her wish to leave his house almost before the day had broken . 
He wanted to make her quarrel with Mr. Slope , and therefore he had outraged her by his abominable vulgarity . 
She determined that at any rate he should know that she appreciated it . 
Nor was the archdeacon a bit better satisfied with the result of his serious interview than was Eleanor . 
He gathered from it , as indeed he could hardly fail to do , that she was very angry with him ; but he thought that she was thus angry , not because she was suspected of an intention to marry Mr. Slope , but because such an intention was imputed to her as a crime . 
Dr. Grantly regarded this supposed union with disgust ; but it never occurred to him that Eleanor was outraged , because she looked at it exactly in the same light . 
He returned to his wife vexed and somewhat disconsolate , but , nevertheless , confirmed in his wrath against his sister-in-law . 
`` Her whole behaviour , '' said he , `` has been most objectionable . 
She handed me his love letter to read as though she were proud of it . 
His spouse , who was sitting at her toilet table , continued her avocations , making no answer to all this . 
She had known that the archdeacon would gain nothing by interfering ; but she was too charitable to provoke him by saying so while he was in such deep sorrow . 
`` This comes of a man making such a will as that of Bold 's , '' he continued . 
I can not have Mr. Slope 's love letters coming here . 
To this at last he gave way ; but not a word passed between them about Mr. Slope -- not a word was said , not a question asked as to the serious interview on the preceding evening . 
Eleanor once asked him whether he would not call upon the bishop ; but he answered rather tartly that he did not know -- he did not think he should , but he could not say just at present . 
Mr. Arabin had heard from his friend of the probability of Eleanor 's marriage with Mr. Slope with amazement , but not with incredulity . 
It has been said that he was not in love with Eleanor , and up to this period this certainly had been true . 
But as soon as he heard that she loved some one else , he began to be very fond of her himself . 
He did not make up his mind that he wished to have her for his wife ; he had never thought of her , and did not now think of her , in connection with himself ; but he experienced an inward indefinable feeling of deep regret , a gnawing sorrow , an unconquerable depression of spirits , and also a species of self-abasement that he -- he Mr. Arabin -- had not done something to prevent that other he , that vile he whom he so thoroughly despised , from carrying off this sweet prize . 
And then he strove to recall his mind and to think of other affairs , his parish , his college , his creed -- but his thoughts would revert to Mr. Slope and the Flemish chieftain . 
It was not that Mrs. Bold should marry any one but him ; he had not put himself forward as a suitor ; but that she should marry Mr. Slope -- and so he repeated over again -- `` Outward grace Nor inward light is needful -- day by day Men wanting both are mated with the best And loftiest of God 's feminine creation , Whose love takes no destinction but of gender , And ridicules the very name of choice . '' 
And so he went on , troubled much in his mind . 
He had but an uneasy ride of it that morning , and little good did he do at St. Ewold 's . 
The necessary alterations in his house were being fast completed , and he walked through the rooms , and went up and down the stairs and rambled through the garden ; but he could not wake himself to much interest about them . 
He stood still at every window to look out and think upon Mr. Slope . 
At almost every window he had before stood and chatted with Eleanor . 
She and Mrs. Grantly had been there continually , and while Mrs. Grantly had been giving orders , and seeing that orders had been complied with , he and Eleanor had conversed on all things appertaining to a clergyman 's profession . 
He thought how often he had laid down the law to her , and how sweetly she had borne with his somewhat dictatorial decrees . 
He remembered her listening intelligence , her gentle but quick replies , her interest in all that concerned the church , in all that concerned him ; and then he struck his riding whip against the window sill , and declared to himself that it was impossible that Eleanor Bold should marry Mr. Slope . 
And yet he did not really believe , as he should have done , that it was impossible . 
He should have known her well enough to feel that it was truly impossible . 
He should have been aware that Eleanor had that within her which would surely protect her from such degradation . 
But he , like so many others , was deficient in confidence in woman . 
He said to himself over and over again that it was impossible that Eleanor Bold should become Mrs. Slope , and yet he believed that she would do so . 
And so he rambled about , and could do and think of nothing . 
He was thoroughly uncomfortable , thoroughly ill at ease , cross with himself and every body else , and feeding in his heart on animosity towards Mr. Slope . 
This was not as it should be , as he knew and felt ; but he could not help himself . 
It was a hard task for him to reconcile himself to the idea of seeing her at the head of Mr. Slope 's table ; but he got through it . 
Mr. Slope , as he argued to himself , was a respectable man and a clergyman ; and he , as Eleanor 's father , had no right even to endeavour to prevent her from marrying such a one . 
He longed to tell her how he had determined to prefer her to all the world , how he was prepared to admit that she was not wrong , how thoroughly he differed from Dr. Grantly ; but he could not bring himself to mention Mr. Slope 's name . 
There was yet a chance that they were all wrong in their surmise ; and , being thus in doubt , he could not bring himself to speak openly to her on the subject . 
He was sitting with her in the drawing-room , with his arm round her waist , saying every now and then some little soft words of affection , and working hard with his imaginary fiddle-bow , when Mr. Arabin entered the room . 
He , too , had dared to talk about her acquaintance with Mr. Slope ; he , too , had dared to blame her for not making an enemy of his enemy . 
She had not intended to see him before her departure , and was now but little inclined to be gracious . 
Why , indeed , should he have wished to have aught further to say to the future wife of Mr. Slope ? 
`` I am sorry to hear that you are to leave us so soon , '' said he , striving in vain to use his ordinary voice . 
`` Charity should begin at home , '' said he ; and he was proceeding to explain that he as a clergyman could not be what she would call charitable at the expense of those principles which he considered it his duty to teach , when he remembered that it would be worse than vain to argue on such a matter with the future wife of Mr. Slope . 
`` But you are just leaving us , '' he continued , `` and I will not weary your last hour with another lecture . 
She longed to let him know the cause of her anger , to upbraid him for speaking of her disrespectfully , and then at last to forgive him , and so part friends . 
She felt that she would be unhappy to leave him in her present frame of mind ; but yet she could hardly bring herself to speak to him of Mr. Slope . 
I have no personal knowledge of Mr. Slope ; I never met him in my life . '' 
`` You are not the less individually hostile to him . 
I am sure Lord Tattenham is quite as objectionable an acquaintance for a clergyman as Mr. Slope is for a clergyman 's daughter . '' 
`` Dr. Grantly asked me whether I thought it would be prudent for him to receive you in his house as the wife of Mr. Slope , and I told him that I thought it would be imprudent . 
Believing it to be utterly impossible that Mr. Slope and -- '' `` Thank you , Mr. Arabin , that is sufficient . 
Was it not clear from what she had said , that the archdeacon had been wrong in imputing to her any attachment to Mr. Slope ? 
It may seem strange that he should for a moment have had a doubt ; and yet he did doubt . 
Mr. Arabin had dared to associate her name with that of Mr. Slope , and now her spirit was soothed by finding that he would fain associate it with his own . 
And so she walked on beside him inhaling incense , but giving out no sweetness in return . 
You do not love Mr. Slope ? 
you do not intend to be his wife ? '' 
Had he known what he was about he should never have mentioned Mr. Slope 's name before Eleanor Bold , till he had made her all his own . 
Then , and not till then , he might have talked of Mr. Slope with as much triumph as he chose . 
He could not make up his mind whether or no Mr. Slope was in truth a favoured rival . 
If not , why should she not have answered his question ? 
He had gone laden with many messages to Dr. Gwynne touching the iniquity of the doings in Barchester palace , and the peril in which it was believed the hospital still stood in spite of the assurances contained in Mr. Slope 's inauspicious letter . 
`` It would be exceedingly indecorous ; but -- '' `` I know of no man '' said the meagre little prebendary , `` who has better interest with the present government than Mr. Slope . '' 
`` Mr. Slope , '' said two or three at once almost sotto voce . 
`` Mr. Slope dean of Barchester ! '' 
What if Mr. Slope should become dean of Barchester ? 
How should they all conduct themselves if Mr. Slope were to become dean of Barchester ? 
`` It would certainly not be very pleasant for us to have Mr. Slope at the deanery , '' said the little prebendary , chuckling inwardly at the evident consternation which his surmise had created . 
`` I should presume such a thing to be quite out of the question , '' said the archdeacon ; `` but at the present moment I am thinking rather of our poor friend who is lying so near us than of Mr. Slope . '' 
said the archdeacon , who had been looking as though he were thinking about his friend the dean , but who had in reality been thinking about Mr. Slope . 
`` Twelve , '' said the archdeacon authoritatively , thereby putting an end at once to all doubt and dispute among his subordinates as far as that subject was concerned . 
The dean 's illness occasioned much mental turmoil in other places besides the deanery and adjoining library ; and the idea which occurred to the meagre little prebendary about Mr. Slope did not occur to him alone . 
It was brought to him by Mr. Slope , who of course was not the last person in Barchester to hear it . 
It may be presumed that there was not just then much friendly intercourse between these two rival claimants for his lordship 's obedience . 
She felt that she might yet recover her lost ground , that she might yet hurl Mr. Slope down to the dust from which she had picked him , and force her sinning lord to sue for pardon in sackcloth and ashes . 
After dinner he returned to his study where Mr. Slope soon found him , and there they had tea together and planned many things . 
He was thus seated when Mr. Slope made his appearance , with breathless impatience . 
exclaimed the bishop , startled out of his apathy by an announcement so sad and so sudden . 
And then Mr. Slope began to meditate , as others also had done , as to who might possibly be the new dean ; and it occurred to him , as it had also occurred to others , that it might be possible that he should be the new dean himself . 
Mr. Slope , however , was not without some means of forwarding his views , and he at any rate did not let the grass grow under his feet . 
In the first place , he thought -- and not vainly -- that he could count upon what assistance the bishop could give him . 
Mr. Slope had also taken some steps towards making his name known to other men in power . 
There was a certain chief-commissioner of national schools who at the present moment was presumed to stand especially high in the good graces of the government big wigs , and with him Mr. Slope had contrived to establish a sort of epistolary intimacy . 
He thought that he might safely apply to Sir Nicholas Fitzwhiggin ; and he felt sure that if Sir Nicholas chose to exert himself , the promise of such a piece of preferment would be had for the asking for . 
Mr. Slope 's little productions were always printed and occasionally commented upon ; and thus , in a small sort of way , he had become a literary celebrity . 
This public life had great charms for him , though it certainly also had its drawbacks . 
On one occasion , when speaking in the presence of reporters , he had failed to uphold and praise and swear by that special line of conduct which had been upheld and praised and sworn by in the Jupiter , and then he had been much surprised and at the moment not a little irritated to find himself lacerated most unmercifully by his old ally . 
He was quizzed and bespattered and made a fool of , just as though , or rather worse than if , he had been a constant enemy instead of a constant friend . 
He had hitherto not learnt that a man who aspires to be on the staff of the Jupiter must surrender all individuality . 
Mr. Slope was one of those who understood the world too well to show himself angry with such a potentate as the Jupiter . 
He had kissed the rod that scourged him , and now thought that he might fairly look for his reward . 
He determined that he would at once let Mr. Towers know that he was a candidate for the place which was about to become vacant . 
But it was incumbent on Mr. Slope first to secure the bishop . 
He specially felt that it behoved him to do this before the visit to the archbishop was made . 
Feeling this very strongly Mr. Slope determined to sound the bishop that very afternoon . 
He was to start on the following morning to London , and therefore not a moment could be lost with safety . 
He went into the bishop 's study about five o'clock , and found him still sitting alone . 
It might have been supposed that he had hardly moved since the little excitement occasioned by his walk to the dean 's door . 
He still wore on his face that dull dead look of half unconscious suffering . 
He was doing nothing , reading nothing , thinking of nothing , but simply gazing on vacancy when Mr. Slope for the second time that day entered his room . 
`` Well , Slope , '' said he , somewhat impatiently ; for , to tell the truth , he was not anxious just at present to have much conversation with Mr. Slope . 
`` Very rich , I believe , '' said Mr. Slope . 
`` It will naturally be a matter of much moment to your lordship who is to succeed him , '' said Mr. Slope . 
Mr. Slope , even Mr. Slope , felt at the present rather abashed . 
He hardly knew how to frame his little request in language sufficiently modest . 
He had recognised and acknowledged to himself the necessity of shocking the bishop in the first instance by the temerity of his application , and his difficulty was how best to remedy that by his adroitness and eloquence . 
exclaimed the bishop , in a manner that Mr. Slope could hardly have considered complimentary . 
The ice was now broken , and Mr. Slope became fluent enough . 
Mr. Slope dean of Barchester ! 
The idea of such a transformation of character would never have occurred to his own unaided intellect . 
At first he went on thinking why , for what reasons , on what account , Mr. Slope should be dean of Barchester . 
But by degrees the direction of his thoughts changed , and he began to think why , for what reasons , on what account , Mr. Slope should not be dean of Barchester . 
As far as he himself , the bishop , was concerned , he could well spare the services of his chaplain . 
That little idea of using Mr. Slope as a counterpoise to his wife had well nigh evaporated . 
He had al but acknowledged the futility of the scheme . 
If indeed he could have slept in his chaplain 's bed-room instead of his wife 's there might have been something in it . 
And thus as Mr. Slope was speaking , the bishop began to recognise the idea that that gentleman might become dean of Barchester without impropriety ; not moved , indeed , by Mr. Slope 's eloquence , for he did not follow the tenor of his speech ; but led thereto by his own cogitations . 
`` I need not say , '' continued Mr. Slope , `` that it would be my chief desire to act in all matters connected with the cathedral as far as possible in accordance with your views . 
Mr. Slope perfectly well perceived that the bishop did not follow a word that he said , but nevertheless he went on talking . 
He knew it was necessary that Dr. Proudie should recover from his surprise , and he knew also that he must give him the opportunity of appearing to have been persuaded by argument . 
So he went on , and produced a multitude of fitting reasons all tending to show that no one on earth could make so good a dean of Barchester as himself , that the government and the public would assuredly coincide in desiring that he , Mr. Slope , should be dean of Barchester ; but that for high considerations of ecclesiastical polity it would be especially desirable that this piece of preferment should be so bestowed through the instrumentality of the bishop of the diocese . 
Mr. Slope assured his patron that he had not . 
`` But , my lord , '' said Mr. Slope , still thinking that he was bound to make a fight for his own view on this matter , and remembering that it still behoved him to maintain his lately acquired supremacy over Mrs. Proudie , lest he should fail in his views regarding the deanery , -- `` but , my lord , I am really much afraid -- '' `` Remember , Mr. Slope , '' said the bishop , `` I can hold out no sort of hope to you in this matter of succeeding poor Dr. Trefoil . 
I will certainly speak to the archbishop , as you wish it , but I can not think -- '' `` Well , my lord , '' said Mr. Slope , fully understanding the bishop , and in his turn interrupting him , `` perhaps your lordship is right about Mr. Quiverful . 
`` Yes , Slope , I think that will be best ; and you may be sure that any little that I can do to forward your views shall be done . '' 
Mr. Slope had now much business on his hands . 
He had to make his daily visit to the signora . 
This common prudence should have now induced him to omit , but he was infatuated ; and could not bring himself to be commonly prudent . 
He determined therefore that he would drink tea at the Stanhope 's ; and he determined also , or thought that he determined , that having done so he would go thither no more . 
He had also to arrange his matters with Mrs. Bold . 
He was of opinion that Eleanor would grace the deanery as perfectly as she would the chaplain 's cottage ; and he thought , moreover , that Eleanor 's fortune would excellently repair any dilapidations and curtailments in the dean 's stipend which might have been made by that ruthless ecclesiastical commission . 
Mr. Slope was one of that numerous multitude of swains who think that all is fair in love , and he had accordingly not refrained from using the services of Mrs. Bold 's own maid . 
From her he had learnt much of what had taken place at Plumstead ; not exactly with truth , for `` the own maid '' had not been able to divine the exact truth , but with some sort of similitude to it . 
He had been told that the archdeacon and Mrs. Grantly and Mr. Harding and Mr. Arabin had all quarrelled with `` missus '' for having received a letter from Mr. Slope ; that `` missus '' had positively refused to give the letter up ; that she had received from the archdeacon the option of giving up either Mr. Slope and his letter , or else the society of Plumstead rectory ; and that `` missus '' had declared , with much indignation , that `` she did n't care a straw for the society of Plumstead rectory , '' and that she would n't give up Mr. Slope for any of them . 
It showed pretty plainly what had been the nature of the conversation in the servants ' hall ; and coupled as it was with the certainty of Eleanor 's sudden return , it appeared to Mr. Slope to be so far worthy of credit as to justify him in thinking that the fair widow would in all human probability accept his offer . 
It was desirable he thought that he should make his offer before it was known that Mr. Quiverful was finally appointed to the hospital . 
As Mr. Slope was esteemed an adept at letter writing , they shall be given in full . 
His letter to Mr. Towers was written in quite a different strain . 
MR. Slope conceived that he completely understood the difference in character and position of the two men whom he addressed . 
He knew that for such a man as Sir Nicholas Fitzwhiggin a little flummery was necessary , and that it might be of the easy every-day description . 
Therefore the epistle to Mr. Towers was studied , and recopied , and elaborated at the cost of so many minutes , that Mr. Slope had hardly time to dress himself and reach Dr. Stanhope 's that evening . 
-LRB- He purposely omitted any allusion to the `` palace , '' thinking that Mr. Towers might not like it . 
Having thus exerted himself , Mr. Slope posted his letters , and passed the remainder of the evening at the feet of his mistress . 
Mr. Slope will be accused of deceit in his mode of canvassing . 
It will be said that he lied in the application he made to each of his three patrons . 
I believe it must be owned that he did so . 
He could not hesitate on account of his youth , and yet be quite assured that he was not too young . 
He could not count chiefly on the bishop 's support , and chiefly also on that of the newspaper . 
He did not think that the bishop was going to -- to press the matter on the archbishop . 
It must be owned that in his canvassing Mr. Slope was as false as he well could be . 
Mr. Slope had as yet received no line in answer to either of his letters ; but he had learnt the cause of this . 
Mr. Slope learnt that he was not expected back till the last day of September . 
But during all this time Eleanor by no means forgot Mr. Arabin , nor did she forget Mr. Slope . 
The Proudies were also to be there ; and as Mr. Slope had not been included in the invitation to the palace , the signora , whose impudence never deserted her , asked permission of Miss Thorne to bring him . 
But Mr. Arabin comforted her by an assurance that he should meet Mr. Slope with the greatest pleasure imaginable , and made her promise that she would introduce them to each other . 
But this triumph of Mr. Slope 's was not so agreeable to Eleanor , who since her return to Barchester had done her best to avoid him . 
She could not bring herself to specify Mr. Slope particularly , and in order to avoid him she had thus debarred herself from all her friends . 
Once she had met him at the Stanhopes ' ; but , as a rule , Mr. Slope 's visits there were made in the morning , and hers in the evening . 
The fact , however , was , that Charlotte had learnt from her sister that Mr. Slope would probably put himself forward as a suitor for the widow 's hand , and she was consequently sufficiently alive to the expediency of guarding Bertie 's future wife from any danger in that quarter . 
Nevertheless the Stanhopes were pledged to take Mr. Slope with them to Ullathorne . 
Dr. Stanhope , with herself , Charlotte , and Mr. Slope , were to go together , and Bertie was to follow with his sister Madeline . 
Nor could we possibly put Mr. Slope and Madeline in the same carriage without any one else . 
I thought you and Mr. Slope were great friends . 
I can assure you he is much more afraid of Mr. Slope than you are . 
But you see Madeline can not go out without him , -- and she , poor creature , goes out so seldom ! 
And of course she had to give way , and undertake to go in the carriage with Mr. Slope . 
She thought of a thousand little schemes for avoiding it ; she would plead illness , and not go at all ; she would persuade Mary Bold to go although not asked , and then make a necessity of having a carriage of her own to take her sister-in-law ; anything , in fact , she could do , rather than be seen by Mr. Arabin getting out of the same carriage with Mr. Slope . 
However , when the momentous morning came she had no scheme matured , and then Mr. Slope handed her into Dr. Stanhope 's carriage , and , following her steps , sat opposite to her . 
She had got the better of Mr. Slope , and she now thought well to show her husband that when allowed to get the better of everybody , when obeyed by him and permitted to rule over others , she would take care that he should have his reward . 
Mr. Slope had not a chance against her ; not only could she stun the poor bishop by her midnight anger , but she could assuage and soothe him , if she so willed , by daily indulgences . 
She could furnish his room for him , turn him out as smart a bishop as any on the bench , give him good dinners , warm fires , and an easy life ; all this she would do if he would but be quietly obedient . 
Why should he encounter such evil for a man whom he loved so slightly as Mr. Slope ? 
Why should he give up his enjoyments and his ease , and such dignity as might be allowed to him , to fight a losing battle for a chaplain ? 
From that moment he determined to fling Mr. Slope to the winds , and take the goods the gods provided . 
`` I am told , '' said Mrs. Proudie , speaking very slowly , `` that Mr. Slope is looking to be the new dean . '' 
`` Yes , -- certainly , I believe he is , '' said the bishop . 
`` Well , my dear , to tell the truth , I promised Mr. Slope to speak to the archbishop . 
Mr. Slope spoke to me about it . 
It is very arrogant of him , I must say , -- but that is nothing to me . '' 
Mr. Slope dean of Barchester , indeed ! 
Mr. Slope dean of Barchester , indeed ! '' 
And she tossed her head , and put her arms a-kimbo , with an air of confident defiance that made her husband quite sure that Mr. Slope never would be dean of Barchester . 
`` Then why have you endeavoured to assist him ? '' 
, `` Why , -- my dear , I have n't assisted him -- much . '' 
`` Why , I just did mention it ; I just did say that -- that in the event of the poor dean 's death , Mr. Slope would -- would -- '' `` Would what ? '' 
`` I forget how I put it , -- would take it if he could get it ; something of that sort . 
`` Why , my dear , '' said he , `` it appeared to me that you and Mr. Slope did not get on quite so well as you used to do . '' 
`` I began to find that he was objectionable to you , '' -- Mrs. Proudie 's foot worked on the hearthrug with great rapidity , -- `` and that you would be more comfortable if he was out of the palace , '' -- Mrs. Proudie smiled , as a hyena may probably smile before he begins his laugh , -- `` and therefore I thought that if he got this place , and so ceased to be my chaplain , you might be pleased at such an arrangement . '' 
Mrs. Proudie was the Medea of Barchester ; she had no idea of not eating Mr. Slope . 
Pardon him ! 
merely get rid of him ! 
Mr. Slope had no such mercy to expect ; she would pick him to the very last bone . 
`` Oh , yes , my dear , of course he 'll cease to be your chaplain , '' said she . 
said the bishop ; `` but to save appearances , you know , my dear -- '' `` I do n't want to save appearances ; I want Mr. Slope to appear just what he is -- a false , designing , mean , intriguing man . 
That family is a disgrace to Barchester , and Mr. Slope is a disgrace to Barchester . 
If he does n't look well to it , he 'll have his gown stripped off his back instead of having a dean 's hat on his head . 
Dr. Grantly did not mention Mr. Slope 's name in connexion with the expected event of Dr. Trefoil 's death ; he did not wish to say anything about Mr. Slope just at present , nor did he wish to make known his sad surmises ; but the idea that his enemy might possibly become Dean of Barchester made him very gloomy . 
It had been a severe trial for him to have Dr. Proudie in the palace ; but with Mr. Slope also in the deanery he felt that he should be unable to draw his breath in Barchester close . 
Thus it came to pass that in spite of the sorrow at his heart , Mr. Arabin was apparently the gayest of the party . 
To the one it appeared as though he were triumphing at Eleanor 's banishment , and to the other that he was not affected as he should have been by all the sad circumstances of the day , Eleanor 's obstinacy , Mr. Slope 's success , and the poor dean 's apoplexy . 
He said that he was not convinced that she did regard Mr. Slope so warmly as she was supposed to do . 
The archdeacon questioned and cross-questioned him about this , but elicited nothing ; and at last remained firm in his own conviction that he was destined , malgré lui , to be the brother-in-law of Mr. Slope . 
Mr. Arabin strongly advised that Mr. Harding should take no step regarding the hospital in connexion with , or in consequence of , Mr. Slope 's letter . 
Were Mr. Harding to present himself at the palace , he might merely be playing Mr. Slope 's game ; '' and thus it was settled that nothing should be done till the great Dr. Gwynne 's arrival , or at any rate without that potentate 's sanction . 
There was a comfortable house and income in question , and it was very desirable , and certainly very just , that Mr. Harding should have them ; but that at present was not the main point ; it was expedient to beat the bishop , and if possible to smash Mr. Slope . 
Mr. Slope had set up , or was supposed to have set up , a rival candidate . 
Mr. Slope 's wicked cunning hand had been peculiarly conspicuous in the way in which this had been brought to pass , and it was the success of Mr. Slope 's cunning which was so painfully grating to the feelings of the archdeacon . 
That which of all things he most dreaded was that he should be out-generalled by Mr. Slope : and just at present it appeared probable that Mr. Slope would turn his flank , steal a march on him , cut off his provisions , carry his strong town by a coup de main , and at last beat him thoroughly in a regular pitched battle . 
The archdeacon felt that his flank had been turned when desired to wait on Mr. Slope instead of the bishop , that a march had been stolen when Mr. Harding was induced to refuse the bishop 's offer , that his provisions would be cut off when Mr. Quiverful got the hospital , that Eleanor was the strong town doomed to be taken , and that Mr. Slope , as Dean of Barchester , would be regarded by all the world as conqueror in the final conflict . 
But how can melodramic dénouements be properly brought about , how can vice and Mr. Slope be punished , and virtue and the archdeacon be rewarded , while the avenging god is laid up with the gout ? 
He could not bring himself to believe that there was any probability that Mr. Slope would be made Dean of Barchester . 
Rumour , he said , had reached even his ears , not at all favourable to that gentleman 's character , and he expressed himself strongly of opinion that any such appointment was quite out of the question . 
`` Quite out of the question , '' said he , arguing that Mr. Slope could not possibly be made the new Dean of Barchester . 
`` He has no standing , and , if all I hear be true , very little character . '' 
But they could n't make Mr. Slope ; the last two deans have been Cambridge men ; you 'll not show me an instance of their making three men running from the same University . 
Nevertheless , Mr. Slope wo n't be Dean of Barchester . '' 
`` And I think , moreover , that Dr. Proudie will not be so shortsighted as to run against such a rock : Mr. Slope should himself have sense enough to prevent it . '' 
`` But perhaps Mr. Slope may have no objection to see his patron on a rock , '' said the suspicious tutor . 
`` What could he get by that ? '' 
Dr. Gwynne or Mr. Staple were not in the least aware , nor even was Mr. Arabin , that this Mr. Slope , of whom they were talking , had been using his utmost efforts to put their own candidate into the hospital ; and that in lieu of being permanent in the palace , his own expulsion therefrom had been already decided on by the high powers of the diocese . 
The Stanhope party was finally arranged in the odious manner already described , and Eleanor got into the doctor 's carriage full of apprehension and presentiment of further misfortune , whereas Mr. Slope entered the vehicle elate with triumph . 
He had received that morning a very civil note from Sir Nicholas Fitzhiggin ; not promising much indeed ; but then Mr. Slope knew , or fancied that he knew , that it was not etiquette for government officers to make promises . 
Though Sir Nicholas promised nothing he implied a good deal ; declared his conviction that Mr. Slope would make an excellent dean , and wished him every kind of success . 
To be sure he added that , not being in the cabinet , he was never consulted on such matters , and that even if he spoke on the subject his voice would go for nothing . 
But all this Mr. Slope took for the prudent reserve of official life . 
To complete his anticipated triumphs , another letter was brought to him just as he was about to start to Ullathorne . 
Mr. Slope also enjoyed the idea of handling Mrs. Bold out of Dr. Stanhope 's carriage before the multitude at Ullathorne gate , as much as Eleanor dreaded the same ceremony . 
He had fully made up his mind to throw himself and his fortune at the widow 's feet , and had almost determined to select the present propitious morning for doing so . 
The signora had of late been less than civil to him . 
She had indeed admitted his visits , and listened , at any rate without anger , to his love ; but she had tortured him and reviled him , jeered at him and ridiculed him , while she allowed him to call her the most beautiful of living women , to kiss her hand , and to proclaim himself with reiterated oaths her adorer her slave and worshipper . 
`` Bless your soul , ma'am , '' said he , `` there wo n't be no old ladies ; not one , barring yourself and old Mrs. Clantantram . '' 
Mr. Slope 's civility had been more than ordinarily greasy ; and now , though he had not in fact said anything which she could notice , she had for the first time entertained a suspicion that he was intending to make love to her . 
Charlotte Stanhope had also been watching Mr. Slope , and had come to the conclusion that it behoved her brother to lose no further time , if he meant to gain the widow . 
Dr. Grantly did not see his sister-in-law in company with Mr. Slope , but Mr. Arabin did . 
Eleanor hung back in the carriage as long as she well could , but she was nearest to the door , and when Mr. Slope having alighted offered her his hand , she had no alternative but to take it . 
Mr. Arabin standing at the open door , while Mrs. Grantly was shaking hands with some one within , saw a clergyman alight from the carriage whom he at once knew to be Mr. Slope , and then he saw this clergyman hand out Mrs. Bold . 
Eleanor was , however , spared any further immediate degradation , for Dr. Stanhope gave her his arm across the courtyard , and Mr. Slope was fain to throw away his attention upon Charlotte . 
It said as plainly as an eye could speak , `` Yes , you came with the Stanhopes , but you did so in order that you might be in company with Mr. Slope . '' 
`` Our party , '' said she , still addressing her father , `` consisted of the doctor and Charlotte Stanhope , myself , and Mr. Slope . '' 
`` Papa , '' said she , `` it was impossible to help coming in the same carriage with Mr. Slope ; it was quite impossible . 
I had promised to come with them before I dreamt of his coming , and afterwards I could not get out of it without explaining and giving rise to talk . 
`` No ; but Mr. Slope . 
You know I mean Mr. Slope . 
He 's the most odious man I ever met in my life , and it was most unfortunate my having to come here in the same carriage with him . 
His own child , his Eleanor , the daughter of whom he was so proud , was not to become the wife of a Mr. Slope . 
He had been about to give his sanction to the marriage , so certified had he been of the fact ; and now he learnt that this imputed lover of Eleanor 's was at any rate as much disliked by her as by any one of the family . 
And Mr. Harding would have proceeded in his own defence to make out that Mr. Slope after all was a very good sort of man , and a very fitting second husband for a young widow , had he not been interrupted by Eleanor 's greater energy . 
It was such a load off his heart to think that he should not be called on to welcome Mr. Slope as his son-in-law . 
It was such a relief to him to find that his daughter 's feelings and his own were now as they ever had been in unison . 
He had been so unhappy for the last six weeks about this wretched Mr. Slope ! 
He was so indifferent as to the loss of the hospital , so thankful for the recovery of his daughter , that , strong as was the ground for Eleanor 's anger , she could not find it in her heart to be long angry with him . 
`` Dear papa , '' she said , hanging closely to his arm , `` never suspect me again : promise me that you never will . 
She did not however go so fast but what she heard the signora 's voice , asking -- `` Who on earth is that woman , Mr. Slope ? '' 
`` Look , look , '' said that lady to Mr. Slope , who was still standing near to her ; `` see the high spiritualities and temporalities of the land in league together , and all against poor me . 
I 'll wager my bracelet , Mr. Slope , against your next sermon , that they 've taken up their position there on purpose to pull me to pieces . 
In such position Mrs. Proudie had been wont in earlier days to fall back upon Mr. Slope ; but now she could never fall back upon him again . 
She gave her head one shake as she thought of her lone position , and that shake was as good as a week deducted from Mr. Slope 's longer sojourn in Barchester . 
Sir Harkaway Gorse , however , relieved her present misery , though his doing so by no means mitigated the sinning chaplain 's doom . 
Dr. Grantly , to his great horror , found himself leagued to Mrs. Clantantram . 
Mrs. Clantantram had a great regard for the archdeacon , which was not cordially returned ; and when she , coming up to him , whispered in his ear , `` Come , archdeacon , I 'm sure you wo n't begrudge on old friend the favour of your arm , '' and then proceeded to tell him the whole history of her roquelaure , he resolved that he would shake her off before he was fifteen minutes older . 
But latterly the archdeacon had not been successful in his resolutions ; and on the present occasion Mrs. Clantantram stuck to him till the banquet was over . 
Eleanor had been right glad to avail herself of his arm seeing that Mr. Slope was hovering nigh her . 
In striving to avoid that terrible Charybdis of a Slope she was in great danger of falling into an unseen Scylla on the other hand , that Scylla being Bertie Stanhope . 
Charlotte perceived this from a distance , and triumphed in her heart ; Bertie felt it , and was encouraged ; Mr. Slope saw it , and glowered with jealousy . 
Eleanor and Bertie sat down to table in the dining-room ; and as she took her seat at his right hand , she found that Mr. Slope was already in possession of the chair at her own . 
It is at present only necessary to say that Mr. Slope 's name was not among the five . 
He had come there hoping the best , striving to think the best , about Eleanor ; turning over in his mind all the words he remembered to have fallen from her about Mr. Slope , and trying to gather from them a conviction unfavourable to his rival . 
He had not exactly resolved to come that day to some decisive proof as to the widow 's intention ; but he had meant , if possible , to recultivate his friendship with Eleanor ; and in his present frame of mind any such recultivation must have ended in a declaration of love . 
He had passed the previous night alone at his new parsonage , and it was the first night that he had so passed . 
He had sat there alone with his glass before him , and then with his teapot , thinking about Eleanor Bold . 
As is usual in such meditations , he did little but blame her ; blame her for liking Mr. Slope , and blame her for not liking him ; blame her for her cordiality to himself , and blame her for her want of cordiality ; blame her for being stubborn , headstrong , and passionate ; and yet the more he thought of her the higher she rose in his affection . 
If only it should turn out , if only it could be made to turn out , that she had defended Mr. Slope , not from love , but on principle , all would be right . 
Such principle in itself would be admirable , loveable , womanly ; he felt that he could be pleased to allow Mr. Slope just so much favour as that . 
He was in this state of confused uncertainly , hope , and doubt , when he saw Mr. Slope , with his most polished smile , handing Eleanor out of her carriage . 
He thought of nothing more . 
He never considered whether the carriage belonged to her or to Mr. Slope , or to any one else to whom they might both be mutually obliged without any concert between themselves . 
This sight in his present state of mind was quite enough to upset him and his resolves . 
Had he seen her handed into a carriage by Mr. Slope at a church door with a white veil over her head , the truth could not be more manifest . 
He went into the house , and , as we have seen , soon found himself walking with Mr. Harding . 
`` I wonder , '' said Dr. Grantly , `` if it be true that Mr. Slope and Mrs. Bold came here together . 
She had had almost enough of Mr. Slope , though she could not quite resist the fun of driving a very sanctimonious clergyman to madness by a desperate and ruinous passion . 
She knew also , that as a clergyman he was of a much higher stamp than Mr. Slope , and that as a gentleman he was better educated than Mr. Thorne . 
She would never have attempted to drive Mr. Arabin into ridiculous misery as she did Mr. Slope , nor would she think it possible to dispose of him in ten minutes as she had done with Mr. Thorne . 
Your friend Mr. Slope was with me a few minutes since full of life and spirits ; why do n't you rival him ? '' 
Mr. Arabin winced visibly before her attack , and she knew at once that he was jealous of Mr. Slope . 
`` But I look on you and Mr. Slope as the very antipodes of men , '' said she . 
He is gregarious , you are given to solitude . 
He is active , you are passive . 
He works , you think . 
He likes women , you despise them . 
He is fond of position and power , and so are you , but for directly different reasons . 
He loves to be praised , you very foolishly abhor it . 
He will gain his rewards , which will be an insipid useful wife , a comfortable income , and a reputation for sanctimony . 
`` Oh , you are not to look for such success as awaits Mr. Slope . 
He is born to be a successful man . 
He suggests to himself an object , and then starts for it with eager intention . 
Nothing will deter him from his pursuit . 
He will have no scruples , no fears , no hesitation . 
His desire is to be a bishop with a rising family , the wife will come first , and in due time the apron . 
Would he not hereafter look back , if not at Mr. Slope , at some others , perhaps not equally gifted with himself , who had risen in the world while he had lagged behind , and then wish that he had done the same . 
Who was this woman that thus read the secrets of his heart , and re-uttered to him the unwelcome bodings of his own soul ? 
He looked full into her face when she had done speaking , and said , `` Am I one of those foolish blades , too sharp and too fine to do a useful day 's work ? '' 
Messrs. Slope and Thorne , Messrs. Brown Jones and Robinson , they all paid her compliments . 
Mr. Arabin , rising from his position , leaned over the sofa and looked through the drawing-room door to the place where Eleanor was seated between Bertie Stanhope and Mr. Slope . 
She at once caught his glance , and averted her own . 
Mr. Slope was doing his best to attract her attention ; and she was striving to prevent his doing so by talking to Mr. Stanhope , while her mind was intently fixed on Mr. Arabin and Madame Neroni . 
And now I think of it , Mr. Arabin , let me introduce you to Mr. Slope . 
Mr. Slope , Mr. Arabin . '' 
Mr. Slope , who was wide awake to what he hoped was his coming opportunity , was not much concerned in the interest of the moment . 
His wish was to see Eleanor move , that he might pursue her . 
Mr. Arabin , having bowed to Mr. Slope , began eating his food without saying a word further . 
She said a few words in reply to some remarks from Mr. Slope , and then feeling the situation too much for her , started from her chair in spite of Miss Thorne , and hurried from the room . 
Mr. Slope followed her , and young Stanhope lost the occasion . 
She was inclined to believe that Mr. Slope had more chance of success ; and with her it would be a labour of love to rob Mr. Slope of his wife . 
'T was thus that Mr. Slope encouraged himself , as he left the dining room in pursuit of Eleanor . 
He had not indeed seen in that room any person really intoxicated ; but there had been a good deal of wine drunk , and Mr. Slope had not hesitated to take his share , in order to screw himself up to the undertaking which he had in hand . 
He is not the first man who has thought it expedient to call in the assistance of Bacchus on such an occasion . 
Here and there were to be seen a constant couple or two , who preferred their own sweet discourse to the jingle of glasses , or the charms of rhetoric which fell from the mouths of the Honourable George and the bishop of Barchester ; but the grounds were as nearly vacant as Mr. Slope could wish them to be . 
Eleanor saw that she was pursued , and as a deer when escape is no longer possible will turn to bay and attack the hounds , so did she turn upon Mr. Slope . 
I must beg of you , Mr. Slope , to go back . '' 
But Mr. Slope would not be thus entreated . 
He had observed all day that Mrs. Bold was not cordial to him , and this had to a certain extent oppressed him . 
But he did not deduce from this any assurance that his aspirations were in vain . 
He saw that she was angry with him . 
Might she not be so because he had so long tampered with her feelings , -- might it not arise from his having , as he knew was the case , caused her name to be bruited about in conjunction with his own , without having given her the opportunity of confessing to the world that henceforth their names were to be one and the same ? 
He had within him a certain Christian conscience-stricken feeling of remorse on this head . 
It might be that he had wronged her by his tardiness . 
He had , however , at the present moment imbibed too much of Mr. Thorne 's champagne to have any inward misgivings . 
`` Indeed you must , Mr. Slope , '' said Eleanor still very stiffly ; `` for it is my special wish to be alone . '' 
Mr. Slope saw that it must be now or never , and he was determined that it should be now . 
This was not his first attempt at winning a fair lady . 
He had been on his knees , looked unutterable things with his eyes , and whispered honeyed words before this . 
Indeed he was somewhat an adept at these things , and had only to adapt to the perhaps different taste of Mrs. Bold the well remembered rhapsodies which had once so much gratified Olivia Proudie . 
`` Do not ask me to leave you , Mrs. Bold , '' said he with an impassioned look , impassioned and sanctified as well , with that sort of look which is not uncommon with gentlemen of Mr. Slope 's school , and which may perhaps be called the tender-pious . 
Of course she could refuse Mr. Slope , and there would be an end of that , one might say . 
The very fact of Mr. Slope 's making an offer to her would be a triumph to the archdeacon , and in a great measure a vindication of Mr. Arabin 's conduct . 
She had defended Mr. Slope , she had declared herself quite justified in admitting him among her acquaintance , had ridiculed the idea of his considering himself as more than an acquaintance , and had resented the archdeacon 's caution in her behalf : now it was about to be proved to her in a manner sufficiently disagreeable that the archdeacon had been right , and she herself had been entirely wrong . 
`` I do n't know what you can have to say to me , Mr. Slope , that you could not have said when we were sitting at table just now ; '' and she closed her lips , and steadied her eyeballs , and looked at him in a manner that ought to have frozen him . 
But gentlemen are not easily frozen when they are full of champagne , and it would not at any time have been easy to freeze Mr. Slope . 
Eleanor had not found it practicable to stand stock still before the dining-room window , and there receive his offer in full view of Miss Thorne 's guests . 
She had therefore in self-defence walked on , and thus Mr. Slope had gained his object of walking with her . 
He now offered her his arm . 
`` Thank you , Mr. Slope , I am much obliged to you ; but for the very short time that I shall remain with you I shall prefer walking alone . '' 
`` And must it be so short , '' said he ; `` must it be -- '' `` Yes , '' said Eleanor , interrupting him ; `` as short as possible , if you please , sir . '' 
`` I had hoped , Mrs. Bold -- I had hoped -- '' `` Pray hope nothing , Mr. Slope , as far as I am concerned ; pray do not ; I do not know , and need not know what hope you mean . 
Mrs. Bold was certainly treating Mr. Slope rather cavalierly , and he felt it so . 
She was rejecting him before he had offered himself , and informed him at the same time that he was taking a great deal too much on himself to be so familiar . 
He was still determined to be very tender and very pious , seeing that in spite of all Mrs. Bold had said to him , he not yet abandoned hope ; but he was inclined also to be somewhat angry . 
The widow was bearing herself , as he thought , with too high a hand , was speaking of herself in much too imperious a tone . 
Mr. Slope would be tender as long as he could , but he began to think if that failed it would not be amiss if he also mounted himself for awhile on his high horse . 
Mr. Slope could undoubtedly be very tender , but he could be very savage also , and he knew his own abilities . 
`` That is cruel , '' said he , `` and unchristian too . 
and then he paused a moment , during which the widow walked steadily on with measured steps , saying nothing further . 
`` Beautiful woman , '' at last he burst forth ; `` beautiful woman , you can not pretend to be ignorant that I adore you . 
-LRB- Mr. Slope 's memory here played him false , or he would not have omitted the deanery . -RRB- 
Eleanor had no intention of ever walking together with Mr. Slope on any other path than that special one of Miss Thorne 's , which they now occupied ; but as she had been unable to prevent the expression of Mr. Slope 's wishes and aspirations , she resolved to hear him out to the end before she answered him . 
Eleanor , '' he continued , and it seemed to be his idea that as he had once found courage to pronounce her Christian name , he could not utter it often enough . 
Eleanor -- '' `` My name , Mr. Slope , is Mrs. Bold , '' said Eleanor , who though determined to hear out the tale of his love , was too much disgusted by his blasphemy to be able to bear much more of it . 
They had got into a walk nearly enveloped by shrubs , and Mr. Slope therefore no doubt considered that as they were now alone it was fitting that he should give her some outward demonstration of that affection of which he talked so much . 
She sprang from him as she would have jumped from an adder , but she did not spring far ; not , indeed , beyond arm 's length ; and then , quick as thought , she raised her little hand and dealt him a box on the ear with such right good will , that it sounded among the trees like a miniature thunder-clap . 
It were to be wished devoutly that she had not struck Mr. Slope in the face . 
And then Mr. Slope 's face , tinted with a deeper dye than usual by the wine he had drunk , simpering and puckering itself with pseudo piety and tender grimaces , seemed specially to call for such punishment . 
Mr Slope was such a man ; and , therefore , the slap on the face that he got from Eleanor was , as far as he was concerned , the fittest rebuke which could have been administered to him . 
But how shall I sing the divine wrath of Mr. Slope , or how invoke the tragic muse to describe the rage which swelled the celestial bosom of the bishop 's chaplain ? 
We will not attempt to tell with what mighty surgings of the inner heart Mr. Slope swore to revenge himself on the woman who had disgraced him , nor will we vainly strive to depict his deep agony of soul . 
There he is , however , alone in the garden walk , and we must contrive to bring him out of it . 
He was not willing to come forth quite at once . 
His cheek was stinging with the weight of Eleanor 's fingers , and he fancied that every one who looked at him would be able to see on his face the traces of what he had endured . 
He stood awhile , becoming redder and redder with rage . 
He stood motionless , undecided , glaring with his eyes , thinking of the pains and penalties of Hades , and meditating how he might best devote his enemy to the infernal gods with all the passion of his accustomed eloquence . 
He longed in his heart to be preaching at her . 
'T was thus that he was ordinarily avenged of sinning mortal men and women . 
Could he at once have ascended his Sunday rostrum and fulminated at her such denunciations as his spirit delighted in , his bosom would have been greatly eased . 
said Mr. Slope with his most gracious smile , and pointing to the tent ; `` very pleasant . 
Mr. Slope thought he might force the bishop to introduce him to Dr. Gwynne . 
A very great example had declared and practised the wisdom of being everything to everybody , and Mr. Slope was desirous of following it . 
His maxim was never to lose a chance . 
The bishop , however , at the present moment was not very anxious to increase Mr. Slope 's circle of acquaintance among his clerical brethren . 
He had his own reasons for dropping any marked allusion to his domestic chaplain , and he therefore made his shoulder rather cold for the occasion . 
`` Very , very , '' said he without turning round , or even deigning to look at Mr. Slope . 
I , for one , Dr. Gwynne -- '' `` Dr. Gwynne , '' said Mr. Slope , raising his hat , and resolving not to be outwitted by such an insignificant little goose as the bishop of Barchester . 
The master of Lazarus also raised his hat and bowed very politely to Mr. Slope . 
`` My lord , '' said Mr. Slope ; `` pray do me the honour of introducing me to Dr. Gwynne . 
`` My chaplain , Dr. Gwynne , '' said he ; `` my present chaplain , Mr. Slope . '' 
He certainly made the introduction as unsatisfactory to the chaplain as possible , and by the use of the word present , seemed to indicate that Mr. Slope might probably not long enjoy the honour which he now held . 
But Mr. Slope cared nothing for this . 
He understood the innuendo , and disregarded it . 
It might probably come to pass that he would be in a situation to resign his chaplaincy before the bishop was in a situation to dismiss him from it . 
Had not Mr. Slope , just as he was entering Dr. Stanhope 's carriage , received an all important note from Tom Towers of the Jupiter ? 
had he not that note this moment in his pocket ? 
But suddenly an interruption came , not altogether unwelcome to Mr. Slope . 
One of the bishop 's servants came up to his master 's shoulder with a long grave face , and whispered into the bishop 's ear . 
`` The dean , my lord ; he is dead . '' 
Mr. Slope had no further desire to converse with the master of Lazarus , and was very soon on his road back to Barchester . 
Eleanor , as we have said , having declared her intention of never holding further communication with Mr. Slope , ran hurriedly back towards the house . 
Was she to wait there till Mr. Slope caught her , or was she to go in among the crowd with tears in her eyes and passion in her face ? 
She might in truth have stood there long enough without any reasonable fear of further immediate persecution from Mr. Slope ; but we are all inclined to magnify the bugbears which frighten us . 
In her present state of dread she did not know of what atrocity he might venture to be guilty . 
Had any one told her a week ago that he would have put his arm round her waist at this party of Miss Thorne 's she would have been utterly incredulous . 
Had she been informed that he would be seen on the following Sunday walking down the High-street in a scarlet coat and top boots , she would not have thought such a phenomenon more improbable . 
But this improbable iniquity he had committed ; and now there was nothing she could not believe of him . 
In the first place it was quite manifest that he was tipsy ; in the next place , it was to be taken as proved that all his religion was sheer hypocrisy ; and finally the man was utterly shameless . 
He swears that you have gone off with Mr. Slope , and is now on the point of hanging himself . '' 
There was nothing of the gnome about Eleanor ; and she therefore resolved to tell Charlotte Stanhope the whole story about Mr. Slope . 
`` That horrid man ; that Mr. Slope , '' said she ; `` did you not see that he followed me out of the dining-room ? '' 
It was delightful to her to think that Mr. Slope had had his ears boxed . 
Whereas to Mr. Slope would be due all those gibes and jeers which would naturally follow such an affair . 
His friends would ask him whether his ears tingled whenever he saw a widow ; and he would be cautioned that beautiful things were made to be looked at , and not to be touched . 
But it is very right that Mr. Slope should know that you have somebody by you that will , and can protect you . '' 
`` Yes , but it is so disagreeable for clergymen to have to quarrel with each other ; and circumstanced as your father is just at this moment , it would be very inexpedient that there should be anything unpleasant between him and Mr. Slope . 
It was grievous to think that Mr. Slope should have so distanced him . 
And now it was plain enough also that he had nothing so fear from his rival Mr. Slope . 
This being so , could not this affair of Mr. Slope 's be turned to advantage ? 
In the first place , it was arranged that Mr. Slope should not return in the Stanhopes ' carriage to Barchester . 
It so happened that Mr. Slope was already gone , but of that of course they knew nothing . 
The signora should be induced to go first , with only the servants and her sister , and Bertie should take Mr. Slope 's place in the second journey . 
Bertie was to be told in confidence of the whole affair , and when the carriage was gone off with its first load , Eleanor was to be left under Bertie 's special protection , so as to insure her from any further aggression from Mr. Slope . 
In being thus be-sirened Mr. Arabin behaved himself very differently from Mr. Slope . 
Mr. Slope , when this lady laid upon his senses the overpowering breath of her charms , immediately attempted to obtain some fruition , to achieve some mighty triumph . 
He began by catching at her hand , and progressed by kissing it . 
He made vows of love , and asked for vows in return . 
He promised everlasting devotion , knelt before her , and swore that had she been on Mount Ida , Juno would have had no cause to hate the offspring of Venus . 
Of course , he said he would undeceive the Grantlys as to that foolish rumour about Mr. Slope . 
`` I shall be home to-morrow , '' said he . 
The little history of Mr. Slope 's misconduct was then told to Bertie by his sister , Eleanor 's ears tingling the while . 
Charlotte spared her as much as she possibly could , spoke of the whole thing as though Mr. Slope had taken a glass of wine too much , said that of course there would be nothing more about it , but that steps must be taken to exclude Mr. Slope from the carriage . 
`` Mrs. Bold need be under no alarm about that , '' said Bertie , `` for Mr. Slope has gone this hour past . 
He told me that business made it necessary that he should start at once for Barchester . '' 
`` He is not so tipsy , at any rate , but what he knows his fault , '' said Charlotte . 
As Miss Stanhope went off , Eleanor bethought herself that , as Mr. Slope had taken his departure , there no longer existed any necessity for separating Mr. Stanhope from his sister Madeline , who so much needed his aid . 
It had been arranged that he should remain so as to preoccupy Mr. Slope 's place in the carriage , and act as a social policeman , to effect the exclusion of that disagreeable gentleman . 
But Mr. Slope had effected his own exclusion , and there was no possible reason now why Bertie should not go with his sister . 
In their walk they had come exactly to the spot in which Eleanor had been provoked into slapping Mr. Slope 's face . 
Mr. Slope had annoyed her by the excess of his ardour . 
She was resolved that there should be no more doubt or delay , no more refusals and resignations , no more secret negotiations carried on by Mr. Slope on his own account in opposition to her behests . 
`` Let me alone for that , '' said the husband , with a look of almost fierce determination , pressing his fist as he spoke rigidly on his desk , as though he had Mr. Slope 's head below his knuckles , and meant to keep it there . 
It has been said that Mr. Slope , as he started for Ullathorne , received a despatch from his friend , Mr. Towers , which had the effect of putting him in that high good-humour which subsequent events somewhat untowardly damped . 
Mr. Slope had from his youth upwards been a firm believer in the public press . 
He had dabbled in it himself ever since he had taken his degree , and regarded it as the great arranger and distributor of all future British terrestrial affairs whatever . 
He had not yet arrived at the age , an age which sooner or later comes to most of us , which dissipates the golden dreams of youth . 
He delighted in the idea of wresting power from the hands of his country 's magnates , and placing it in a custody which was at any rate nearer to his own reach . 
Sixty thousand broad sheets dispersing themselves daily among his reading fellow citizens , formed in his eyes a better depôt for supremacy than a throne at Windsor , a cabinet in Downing Street , or even an assembly at Westminster . 
And on this subject we must not quarrel with Mr. Slope , for the feeling is too general to be met with disrespect . 
On the following morning the Jupiter , spouting forth public opinion with sixty thousand loud clarions , did proclaim to the world that Mr. Slope was the fitting man for the vacant post . 
It was pleasant for Mr. Slope to read the following lines in the Barchester news room , which he did within thirty minutes after the morning train from London had reached the city . 
`` We hear that Mr. Slope 's name has been mentioned for this preferment . 
Mr. Slope is at present chaplain to the bishop . 
Standing at a reading-desk in the Barchester news-room Mr. Slope digested this article with considerable satisfaction . 
What was therein said as to the hospital was now comparatively matter of indifference to him . 
He was certainly glad that he had not succeeded in restoring to the place the father of that virago who had so audaciously outraged all decency in his person ; and was so far satisfied . 
It had been well for Mr. Slope that Dr. Trefoil had died in the autumn . 
Had Dr. Trefoil died in June , Mr. Towers would probably not have known so much about the piety of Mr. Slope . 
And here we will leave Mr. Slope for awhile in his triumph ; explaining , however , that his feelings were not altogether of a triumphant nature . 
His rejection by the widow , or rather the method of his rejection , galled him terribly . 
For days to come he positively felt the sting upon his cheek , whenever he thought of what had been done to him . 
He could not refrain from calling her by harsh names , speaking to himself as he walked through the streets of Barchester . 
When he said his prayers , he could not bring himself to forgive her . 
When he strove to do so , his mind recoiled from the attempt , and in lieu of forgiving ran off in a double spirit of vindictiveness , dwelling on the extent of the injury he had received . 
And so his prayers dropped senseless from his lips . 
And then the signora ; what would he not have given to be able to hate her also ? 
As it was , he worshipped the very sofa on which she was ever lying . 
And thus it was not all rose colour with Mr. Slope , although his hopes ran high . 
Miss Bold had never encouraged Eleanor 's acquaintance with Mr. Slope , and she had positively discouraged the friendship of the Stanhopes as far as her usual gentle mode of speaking had permitted . 
She hated Mr. Slope ; that was a matter of course , in that feeling she revelled . 
And Mr. Arabin would have to learn all this about Mr. Slope ! 
She told herself that she hated him , and she knew that she was lying to herself as she did so . 
Mary , though she could not surmise what it was that had so violently affected her sister-in-law , saw at once that her grief was too great to be kept under control , and waited patiently till the child should be in his cradle . 
But Eleanor would not let her sister touch him . 
She looked wistfully at her baby 's eyes , saw that they were lost in the deepest slumber , and then made a sort of couch for him on the sofa . 
She was determined that nothing should prevail upon her to let him out of her sight that night . 
`` I know I was wrong , '' said she , speaking of the blow she had given to Mr. Slope ; `` but I did n't know what he might do , and I had to protect myself . '' 
said Eleanor , whose mind as regarded Mr. Slope was almost bloodthirsty . 
She re-echoed all the abuse that was heaped on Mr. Slope 's head , and never hinted that she had said as much before . 
He was not in truth much surprised at Mr. Slope 's effrontery ; but he was obliged to act as though he had been to save his daughter 's feelings . 
He was , however , anything but skilful in his deceit , and she saw through it . 
`` I see , '' said she , `` that you think it only in the common course of things that Mr. Slope should have treated me in this way . '' 
She had said nothing to him about the embrace , nor yet of the way in which it had been met . 
`` I do not think it at all strange , '' said he , `` that any one should admire my Eleanor . '' 
`` They may find that out their own way , '' said she ; `` I shall not ever willingly mention Mr. Slope 's name to either of them . '' 
I do n't know now that I am even anxious that he should do so . '' 
But , my dear -- '' `` If you had been living here , papa , with us , as I really think you ought to have done , considering how lonely we are , there would have been none of all this dreadful affair about Mr. Slope . '' 
It did not suit the peculiar feelings of the man to tell his daughter that though she had rejected Mr. Slope , and been ready to reject Mr. Stanhope , some other more favoured suitor would probably soon appear ; and that on the appearance of such a suitor the big front bed-room might perhaps be more frequently in requisition than at present . 
Had Mr. Slope seen in how meek a spirit the coachman took the rebuke , he might have learnt a useful lesson , both in philosophy and religion . 
If that Mr. Slope comes here any more he 'll be the death of me . '' 
`` You 've been the ruin of him , I think , '' said Charlotte . 
And then came Mr. Slope . 
All the world now knew that Mr. Slope was a candidate for the deanery , and that he was generally considered to be the favourite . 
Mr. Slope , therefore , walked rather largely upon the earth . 
He gave to himself a portly air , such as might become a dean , spoke but little to other clergymen , and shunned the bishop as much as possible . 
Mr. Slope , great as he was with embryo grandeur , still came to see the signora . 
Indeed , he could not keep himself away . 
He dreamed of that soft hand which he had kissed so often , and of that imperial brow which his lips had once pressed , and he then dreamed also of further favours . 
`` One another also , sometimes , signora , '' said Mr. Slope , with a very deanish sort of smirk on his face . 
`` Mr. Slope , might I trouble you to ring the bell ? '' 
said she ; and when Mr. Slope got up she looked at Mr. Thorne and pointed to the chair . 
Mr. Thorne , however , was much too slow to understand her , and Mr. Slope would have recovered his seat had not the signora , who never chose to be unsuccessful , somewhat summarily ordered him out of it . 
`` Oh , Mr. Slope , I must ask you to let Mr. Thorne sit here just for a moment or two . 
Mr. Slope , with an air of much indifference , rose from his seat , and , walking into the next room , became greatly interested in Mrs. Stanhope 's worsted work . 
Poor Mr. Thorne put the child down quietly on the ground , and drew back his chair ; Mr. Slope , who had returned to the pole star that attracted him , laughed aloud ; Mr. Arabin winced and shut his eyes ; and the signora pretended not to hear her daughter . 
Mr. Thorne recovered from the child 's crossness sooner than from Mr. Slope 's laughter . 
`` Mr. Slope , '' said she , `` I hear that you are triumphing on all sides . '' 
Mr. Slope hereupon did not look quite so satisfied as he had done . 
`` Mr. Arabin , '' continued the signora , `` do n't you think Mr. Slope is a very lucky man ? '' 
`` Not more so than he deserves , I am sure , '' said Mr. Arabin . 
`` Indeed , signora , '' said Mr. Slope , `` we all know nothing about it . 
said Mr. Slope . 
`` The archdeacon would not accept it , '' said Mr. Arabin ; whereupon Mr. Slope smiled abominably , and said , as plainly as a look could speak , that the grapes were sour . 
`` If I am ever dean , '' said Mr. Slope -- `` that is , were I ever to become so , I should glory in such a canoness . '' 
`` Oh , Mr. Slope , stop ; I have n't half done . 
Mr. Slope is not only to have the deanery , but a wife to put in it . '' 
Mr. Slope again looked disconcerted . 
`` No , never , '' said Mr. Thorne , who did not quite relish talking about Mr. Slope and his affairs . 
`` When will it be , Mr. Slope ? '' 
said he . 
said he , striving to be facetious . 
He who runs can read that Mr. Slope is a favoured lover . 
Come , Mr. Slope , when is the widow to be made Mrs. Dean ? '' 
He believed , still believed with that sort of belief which the fear of a thing engenders , that Mrs. Bold would probably become the wife of Mr. Slope . 
Of Mr. Slope 's little adventure in the garden he knew nothing . 
For aught he knew , Mr. Slope might have had an adventure of quite a different character . 
He might have thrown himself at the widow 's feet , been accepted , and then returned to town a jolly thriving wooer . 
The signora 's jokes were bitter enough to Mr. Slope , but they were quite as bitter to Mr. Arabin . 
He still stood leaning against the fire-place , fumbling with his hands in his trowsers pockets . 
`` Come , come , Mr. Slope , do n't be so bashful , '' continued the signora . 
''' Mr. Slope had seldom in his life felt himself less at his ease . 
He felt on his cheek the sharp points of Eleanor 's fingers , and did not know who might have seen the blow , who might have told the tale to this pestilent woman who took such delight in jeering him . 
He stood there , therefore , red as a carbuncle and mute as a fish ; grinning just sufficiently to show his teeth ; an object of pity . 
He present object was to put Mr. Slope down , and she was determined to do it thoroughly , now that she had him in her power . 
`` What , Mr. Slope , no answer ? 
But I see how it is , Mr. Slope . 
`` Signora , '' said he at last , trying to speak in a tone of dignified reproach , `` you really permit yourself to talk on solemn subjects in a very improper way . '' 
`` Oh certainly , Mr. Slope ; but one word first . 
`` And one other piece of advice , Mr. Slope ; I 'll only offer you one other ; '' and then she commenced singing -- `` It 's gude to be merry and wise , Mr. Slope ; It 's gude to be honest and true ; It 's gude to be off with the old love -- Mr. Slope , Before you are on with the new -- . '' 
She little recked how those who heard her would , in their own imaginations , fill up the little history of Mr. Slope 's first love . 
She little cared that some among them might attribute to her the honour of his earlier admiration . 
She was tired of Mr. Slope and wanted to get rid of him ; she had ground for anger with him , and she chose to be revenged . 
How Mr. Slope got out of that room he never himself knew . 
He did succeed ultimately , and probably with some assistance , in getting his hat and escaping into the air . 
At last his love for the signora was cured . 
Whenever he again thought of her in his dreams , it was not as of an angel with azure wings . 
He connected her rather with fire and brimstone , and though he could still believe her to be a spirit , he banished her entirely out of heaven , and found a place for her among the infernal gods . 
When he weighed in the balance , as he not seldom did , the two women to whom he had attached himself in Barchester , the pre-eminent place in his soul 's hatred was usually allotted to the signora . 
On Sunday morning Mr. Slope was decidedly the favourite ; but he did not show himself in the cathedral , and then he sank a point or two in the betting . 
On Monday , he got a scolding from the bishop in the hearing of the servants , and down he went till nobody would have him at any price ; but on Tuesday he received a letter , in an official cover , marked private , by which he fully recovered his place in the public favour . 
On Wednesday , he was said to be ill , and that did not look well ; but on Thursday morning he went down to the railway station , with a very jaunty air ; and when it was ascertained that he had taken a first class ticket for London , there was no longer any room for doubt on the matter . 
Then Mr. Slope 's successes were henbane to Dr. Grantly ; and Mrs. Bold 's improprieties were as bad . 
What would be all the world to Archdeacon Grantly if Mr. Slope should become dean of Barchester and marry his wife 's sister ! 
He talked of it , and talked of it till he was nearly ill . 
And there was yet another ground of misery which cut him to the quick , nearly as closely as either of the others . 
That paragon of a clergyman , whom he had bestowed upon St. Ewold 's , that college friend of whom he had boasted so loudly , that ecclesiastical knight before whose lance Mr. Slope was to fall and bite the dust , that worthy bulwark of the church as it should be , that honoured representative of Oxford 's best spirit , was -- so at least his wife had told him half a dozen times -- misconducting himself ! 
They were sitting , talking over their sorrows , in the drawing-room before dinner on the day after Mr. Slope 's departure for London ; and on this occasion Mrs. Grantly spoke out her mind freely . 
The archdeacon groaned deeply , but he had no further answer to make . 
He was a courageous man , and knew well enough how to rebuke the younger clergymen of the diocese , when necessary . 
There was Mr. Slope ; he was going to be made dean ; he was going to take a wife ; he was about to achieve respectability and wealth , an excellent family mansion , and a family carriage ; he would soon be among the comfortable élite of the ecclesiastical world of Barchester ; whereas his own protégé , the true scion of the true church , by whom he had sworn , would be still but a poor vicar , and that with a very indifferent character for moral conduct ! 
`` Has Slope been made dean ? '' 
`` I would give twenty pounds , '' said the archdeacon , `` to see how Mr. Slope will look when he hears it . '' 
The idea of Mr. Slope 's discomfiture formed no small part of the archdeacon 's pleasure . 
The cook and butler , who were advanced in years , thought that it was just as it should be ; but the footman and lady 's maid , who were younger , thought it was a great shame that Mr. Slope should lose his chance . 
`` He 's a mean chap all the same , '' said the footman ; `` and it a n't along of him that I says so . 
`` Yes ; and I saw that the Jupiter said all that it could to induce the appointment of Mr. Slope . 
Perhaps you would wish to see Mr. Slope made dean . '' 
He had not come over to Plumstead to have further contention with his son-in-law about Mr. Slope , so he allowed it to pass by . 
`` I know I can not make you understand my feeling , '' he said , `` for we have been cast in different moulds . 
`` My dear , '' said he , `` it is impossible that I should make you understand my feelings , nor do I pretend to any great virtue in the matter . 
Nothing could possibly have suited him better than having Mr. Harding in the deanery . 
In looking through the catalogue of her unmarried friends , who might possibly be in want of a husband , and might also be fit for such promotion as a country parsonage affords , she could think of no one more eligible than Mrs. Bold ; and , consequently , losing no time , she went into Barchester on the day of Mr. Slope 's discomfiture , the same day that her brother had had his interesting interview with the last of the Neros , and invited Mrs. Bold to bring her nurse and baby to Ullathorne , and make them a protracted visit . 
In that affair of Mr. Slope , had not all the world conspired against her ? 
Mr. Slope and Mr. Stanhope had done so it is true ; but gentlemen generally propose without any absolutely defined determination as to their doing so . 
Mr. Slope ! 
That any one should have dared to think that she who had been chosen by him could possibly have mated herself with Mr. Slope ! 
That they should have dared to tell him , also , and subject her bright happiness to such needless risk ! 
And then she smiled with joy as she thought of all the comforts that she could give him ; not that he cared for comforts , but that it would be so delicious for her to give . 
Now he knew that at any rate it would not be Mr. Slope , though he was perfectly at a loss to guess who could possibly have filled the place . 
For a moment he thought that the man might be Bertie Stanhope , and his very soul sank within him . 
The archdeacon , in his journey into Barchester , had been assured by Mr. Harding that all their prognostications about Mr. Slope and Eleanor were groundless . 
asked the doctor , who at once anticipated that the whole truth about Mr. Slope had at last come out . 
The archdeacon saw by his father-in-law 's manner that after all he had nothing to tell him about Mr. Slope . 
`` No , '' said he , `` certainly not -- nothing will ever surprise me again . '' 
He had foreseen that Eleanor would want a husband ; but should he not also have perceived that Mr. Arabin was a man much more likely to attract her than Mr. Slope ? 
He had preached to Eleanor against her fancied attachment to Mr. Slope , at the very time that she was in love with his own protégé , Mr. Arabin ; and had absolutely taken that same Mr. Arabin into his confidence with reference to his dread of Mr. Slope 's alliance . 
In the first place , the assurance that he should never have Mr. Slope for his brother-in-law , was in itself a great comfort . 
But the crowning comfort was the blow which this marriage would give to Mr. Slope . 
He had now certainly lost his wife ; rumour was beginning to whisper that he might possibly lose his position in the palace ; and if Mr. Harding would only be true the great danger of all would be surmounted . 
In such case it might be expected that Mr. Slope would own himself vanquished , and take himself altogether away from Barchester . 
`` Well , well , '' said he . 
As he was driving up the High Street he encountered Mr. Slope at a crossing . 
Had he not pulled up rather sharply he would have run over him . 
They did not speak now ; but they looked each other full in the face , and Mr. Slope 's countenance was as impudent , as triumphant , as defiant as ever . 
Had Dr. Grantly not known to the contrary , he would have imagined that his enemy had won the deanship , the wife , and all the rich honours , for which he had been striving . 
As it was , he had lost everything that he had in the world , and had just received his congé from the bishop . 
He looked forth from his gig smilingly on all the world , and forgave every one in Barchester their sins , excepting only Mrs. Proudie and Mr. Slope . 
Had he seen the bishop , he would have felt inclined to pat even him kindly on the head . 
He determined to go home by St. Ewold 's . 
This would take him some three miles out of his way ; but he felt that he could not leave Plumstead comfortably without saying one word of good fellowship to Mr. Arabin . 
`` Well , well , well , well ; '' said the archdeacon , loudly , joyously , and with supreme good humour ; `` well , well , well , well ; so after all we have no further cause to fear Mr. Slope . '' 
`` Mr. Slope has lost more than the deanery I find , '' and then the archdeacon laughed jocosely . 
He would show her what was the difference in his eyes between a Slope and an Arabin . 
We must now take leave of Mr. Slope , and of the bishop also , and of Mrs. Proudie . 
For the last week or ten days Mr. Slope had seen nothing of Mrs. Proudie , and very little of the bishop . 
He still lived in the palace , and still went through his usual routine work ; but the confidential doings of the diocese had passed into other hands . 
He had seen this clearly and marked it well ; but it had not much disturbed him . 
He had indulged in other hopes till the bishop 's affairs had become dull to him , and he was moreover aware that , as regarded the diocese , Mrs. Proudie had checkmated him . 
Mr. Slope had , for a moment , run her hard , but it was only for a moment . 
All this did not break down Mr. Slope 's spirit , because he had other hopes . 
But , alas , at last there came to him a note from his friend Sir Nicholas , informing him that the deanship was disposed of . 
Let us give Mr. Slope his due . 
He did not lie prostrate under this blow , or give himself up to vain lamentations ; he did not henceforward despair of life , and call upon gods above and gods below to carry him off . 
He sat himself down in his chair , counted out what monies he had in hand for present purposes , and what others were coming in to him , bethought himself as to the best sphere for his future exertions , and at once wrote off a letter to a rich sugar-refiner 's wife in Baker Street , who , as he well knew , was much given to the entertainment and encouragement of serious young evangelical clergymen . 
He rang the bell and desired the servant to inform his master that if it suited his lordship , he , Mr. Slope , was ready to wait upon him . 
The servant , who well understood that Mr. Slope was no longer in the ascendant , brought back a message , saying that `` his lordship desired that Mr. Slope would attend him immediately in his study . '' 
Mr. Slope waited about ten minutes more to prove his independence , and then he went into the bishop 's room . 
There , as he had expected , he found Mrs. Proudie , together with her husband . 
`` Hum , ha , -- Mr. Slope , pray take a chair , '' said the gentleman bishop . 
`` Pray be seated , Mr. Slope , '' said the lady bishop . 
`` Thank ye , thank ye , '' said Mr. Slope , and walking round to the fire , he threw himself into one of the arm-chairs that graced the hearthrug . 
`` Mr. Slope , '' said the bishop , `` it has become necessary that I should speak to you definitively on a matter that has for some time been pressing itself on my attention . '' 
said Mr. Slope . 
`` It is so , -- certainly , -- yes , it certainly is connected with yourself , Mr. Slope . '' 
`` Do n't alarm yourself , Mr. Slope , '' said Mrs. Proudie , `` no discussion is at all necessary . 
The bishop merely intends to express his own wishes . '' 
`` I merely intend , Mr. Slope , to express my own wishes , -- no discussion will be at all necessary , '' said the bishop , reiterating his wife 's words . 
`` That is more , my lord , than we any of us can be sure of , '' said Mr. Slope ; `` I can not , however , force Mrs. Proudie to leave the room ; nor can I refuse to remain here if it be your lordship 's wish that I should do so . '' 
`` Mr. Slope , '' began the bishop , in a solemn , serious voice , `` it grieves me to have to find fault . 
demanded Mr. Slope , boldly . 
`` What have you done amiss , Mr. Slope ? '' 
`` At any rate , I was introduced to her in your drawing-room , '' retorted Mr. Slope . 
I will let you see , Mr. Slope , whether I have the power or whether I have not . 
`` My lord , '' said Mr. Slope , appealing to the bishop , and so turning his back completely on the lady , `` will you permit me to ask that I may have from your own lips any decision that you may have come to on this matter ? '' 
`` Certainly , Mr. Slope , certainly , '' said the bishop ; `` that is but reasonable . 
`` That Signora Neroni is one fault , '' said Mrs. Proudie ; `` and a very abominable fault she is ; very abominable and very disgraceful . 
Fie , Mr. Slope , fie ! 
I advise you to beware , Mr. Slope , of what you do and say . 
`` I think , Mr. Slope , you had better now retire , '' said the bishop . 
`` May God forgive you , madam , for the manner in which you have treated me , '' said Mr. Slope , looking at her with a very heavenly look ; `` and remember this , madam , that you yourself may still have a fall ; '' and he looked at her with a very worldly look . 
And so saying , Mr. Slope left the room . 
Mrs. Proudie was right in this ; namely , that Mr. Slope was not insane enough to publish to the world any of his doings in Barchester . 
He did not trouble his friend Mr. Towers with any written statement of the iniquity of Mrs. Proudie , or the imbecility of her husband . 
Our Mr. Slope did so . 
On his return to town he found that the sugar-refiner had died , and that his widow was inconsolable ; or , in other words , in want of consolation . 
Mr. Slope consoled her , and soon found himself settled with much comfort in the house in Baker Street . 
`` It might be the means you know , Master , of keeping Mr. Slope out , '' said the archdeacon with grave caution . 
`` He has no more chance of it , '' said the Master , `` than our college chaplain . 
The archdeacon had trampled upon Mr. Slope , and had lifted to high honours the young clergyman whom he had induced to quit the retirement and comfort of the university . 
So at least the archdeacon thought ; though , to speak sooth , not he , but circumstances , had trampled on Mr. Slope . 
He laid aside his usual melancholy manner , and brought forth little quiet jokes from the inmost mirth of his heart ; he poked his fun at the archdeacon about Mr. Slope 's marriage , and quizzed him for his improper love for Mrs. Proudie . 
Mr. Slope had certainly had a party ; there had certainly been those in Barchester who were prepared to congratulate him on his promotion with assumed sincerity , but even his own party was not broken-hearted by his failure . 
'T was thus that he sang his song of triumph over Mr. Slope . 
Mr. Slope tried his hand at subverting the old-established customs of the close , and from his failure she has learnt experience . 
He can walk down the High Street of Barchester without feeling that those who see him are comparing his claims with those of Mr. Slope . 
This may seem strange to those who will remember that Eleanor was once accused of partiality to Mr. Slope ; but it is no less the fact . 
Welcome kneellings and bowings , welcome matins and complines , welcome bell , book , and candle , so that Mr. Slope 's dirty surplices and ceremonial Sabbaths be held in due execration ! 
Dr. Arabin -LRB- we suppose he must have become a doctor when he became a dean -RRB- is more moderate and less outspoken on doctrinal points than his wife , as indeed in his station it behoves him to be . 
He is a studious , thoughtful , hard-working man . 
He lives constantly at the deanery , and preaches nearly every Sunday . 
His time is spent in sifting and editing old ecclesiastical literature , and in producing the same articles new . 
At Oxford he is generally regarded as the most promising clerical ornament of the age . 
He and his wife live together in perfect mutual confidence . 
There is but one secret in her bosom which he has not shared . 
He has never yet learned how Mr. Slope had his ears boxed . 
The Stanhopes soon found that Mr. Slope 's power need no longer operate to keep them from the delight of their Italian villa . 
