And yet , I did connect him with them . 
Was it because he had now become associated in my mind with Miss Fairlie ; Miss Fairlie being in her turn , associated with Anne Catherick , since the night when I had discovered the ominous likeness between them ? 
One of Sir Percival Glyde 's objects in coming here , on Monday , is to fix the period of his marriage , which has hitherto been left quite unsettled . 
He is anxious that the event should take place before the end of the year . '' 
Sir Percival has only mentioned his views to Mr. Fairlie , who has told me himself that he is ready and anxious , as Laura 's guardian , to forward them . 
He has written to London , to the family solicitor , Mr. Gilmore . 
He will arrive to-morrow , and will stay with us a few days , so as to allow Sir Percival time to plead his own cause . 
If he succeeds , Mr. Gilmore will then return to London , taking with him his instructions for my sister 's marriage-settlement . 
Sir Percival Glyde 's name is not mentioned , I know -- but does that description at all resemble him ? '' 
`` Accurately ; even in stating his age to be forty-five -- '' Forty-five ; and she was not yet twenty-one ! 
`` Accurately , '' Miss Halcombe continued , `` even to the scar on his right hand , which is the scar of a wound that he received years since when he was travelling in Italy . 
There can be no doubt that every peculiarity of his personal appearance is thoroughly well known to the writer of the letter . '' 
`` Even a cough that he is troubled with is mentioned , if I remember right ? '' 
He treats it lightly himself , though it sometimes makes his friends anxious about him . '' 
`` I suppose no whispers have ever been heard against his character ? '' 
The letter , as I knew from positive testimony , pointed at Sir Percival Glyde , though it did not name him . 
She must have had some strong motive , originating in some deep sense of injury , for secretly denouncing him to Miss Fairlie , in such terms as she had employed -- and that motive was unquestionably not to be traced to the loss of her innocence and her character . 
`` What has he done to you ? '' 
`` Yes , yes , '' she said ; `` he was good to me once ; he helped me -- '' She whispered the rest into her friend 's ear . 
The only mystery that remains , is the mystery of his motive.Looking to the great difference between his station in life and hers , which seems to preclude all idea of the most distant relationship between them , it is of the last importance -- even assuming that she really required to be placed under restraint -- to know why heshould have been the person to assume the serious responsibility of shutting her up -- '' `` In a private Asylum , I think you said ? '' 
`` Sir Percival Glyde shall remove that doubt , Mr. Hartright -- or , Laura Fairlie shall never be his wife . '' 
This old man was to remain at Limmeridge House after I had left it ; he was to hear Sir Percival Glyde 's explanation , and was to give Miss Halcombe the assistance of his experience in forming her judgment ; he was to wait until the question of the marriage was set at rest ; and his hand , if that question were decided in the affirmative , was to draw the settlement which bound Miss Fairlie irrevocably to her engagement . 
The letter itself , I shall keep here , to show to Sir Percival as soon as he arrives . 
I was present during the sojourn of Sir Percival Glyde in Cumberland , and was personally concerned in one important result of his short residence under Mr. Fairlie 's roof . 
I found him to be a most prepossessing man , so far as manners and appearance were concerned . 
He looked rather older than I had expected ; his head being bald over the forehead , and his face somewhat marked and worn . 
But his movements were as active and his spirits as high as a young man 's . 
His meeting with Miss Halcombe was delightfully hearty and unaffected ; and his reception of me , upon my being presented to him , was so easy and pleasant that we got on together like old friends . 
Miss Fairlie was not with us when he arrived , but she entered the room about ten minutes afterwards . 
Sir Percival rose and paid his compliments with perfect grace . 
His evident concern on seeing the change for the worse in the young lady 's looks was expressed with a mixture of tenderness and respect , with an unassuming delicacy of tone , voice , and manner , which did equal credit to his good breeding and his good sense . 
I was rather surprised , under these circumstances , to see that Miss Fairlie continued to be constrained and uneasy in his presence , and that she took the first opportunity of leaving the room again . 
Sir Percival neither noticed the restraint in her reception of him , nor her sudden withdrawal from our society . 
He had not obtruded his attentions on her while she was present , and he did not embarrass Miss Halcombe by any allusion to her departure when she was gone . 
His tact and taste were never at fault on this or on any other occasion while I was in his company at Limmeridge House . 
As soon as Miss Fairlie had left the room , he spared us all embarrassment on the subject of the anonymous letter , by adverting to it of his own accord . 
He had stopped in London on his way from Hampshire ; had seen his solicitor ; had read the documents forwarded by me ; and had travelled on to Cumberland , anxious to satisfy our minds by the speediest and the fullest explanation that words could convey . 
On hearing him express himself to this effect , I offered him the original letter which I had kept for his inspection . 
He thanked me , and declined to look at it ; saying that he had seen the copy , and that he was quite willing to leave the original in our hands . 
The statement itself , on which he immediately entered , was as simple and satisfactory as I had all along anticipated it would be . 
Mrs. Catherick , he informed us , had , in past years , laid him under some obligations for faithful services rendered to his family connexions and to himself . 
Although her marriage had removed her to a part of Hampshire far distant from the neighbourhood in which Sir Percival 's property was situated , he had taken care not to lose sight of her ; his friendly feeling towards the poor woman , in consideration of her past services , having been greatly strengthened by his admiration of the patience and courage with which she supported her calamities . 
Sir Percival had respected this prejudice , as he respected honest independence of feeling in any rank of life ; and had resolved to mark his grateful sense of Mrs. Catherick 's early attachment to the interests of himself and his family , by defraying the expense of her daughter 's maintenance in a trustworthy private Asylum . 
To her mother 's regret , and to his own regret , the unfortunate creature had discovered the share which circumstances had induced him to take in placing her under restraint , and had conceived the most intense hatred and distrust of him in consequence . 
If I had felt professionally called upon to set up a case against Sir Percival Glyde , on the strength of his own explanation , I could have done so beyond all doubt . 
I was to weigh the explanation we had just heard ; to allow all due force to the high reputation of the gentleman who offered it ; and to decide honestly whether the probabilities , on Sir Percival 's own showing , were plainly with him , or plainly against him . 
My own conviction was that they were plainly with him ; and I accordingly declared that his explanation was , to my mind , unquestionably a satisfactory one . 
My opinion is that he did ; seeing that he pointedly resumed the subject , although he might , now , with all propriety , have allowed it to drop . 
`` If my plain statement of facts had only been addressed to Mr. Gilmore , '' he said , `` I should consider any further reference to this unhappy matter as unnecessary . 
He walked to the writing-table , as he spoke ; drew a chair to it ; and opened the paper case . 
`` Let me beg you to write the note , '' he said , `` as a favour to me.It need not occupy you more than a few minutes . 
He held out his hand , and called to the dog good-humouredly . 
`` Come , Nina , '' he said ; `` we remember each other , do n't we ? '' 
The little beast , cowardly , and cross-grained as pet-dogs usually are , looked up at him sharply , shrank away from his outstretched hand , whined , shivered , and hid itself under a sofa . 
It was scarcely possible that he could have been put out by such a trifle as a dog 's reception of him -- but I observed , nevertheless , that he walked away towards the window very suddenly . 
Perhaps his temper is irritable at times ? 
If so , I can sympathise with him . 
He bowed ; took it from her ; folded it up immediately , without looking at the contents ; sealed it ; wrote the address ; and handed it back to her in silence . 
`` I beg you will post it , '' he answered . 
He paused for a moment , as if he was thinking over the last answer , and then added : `` Did you find out where Anne Catherick was living , when she was in this neighbourhood ? '' 
Miss Halcombe promised to comply with his request . 
He thanked her -- nodded pleasantly -- and left us , to go and establish himself in his own room . 
As he opened the door , the cross-grained greyhound poked out her sharp muzzle from under the sofa , and barked and snapped at him . 
`` Do you see anything improbable , or contradictory , in his explanation ? '' 
`` How can I say I do , after the proof he has offered me of the truth of it ? 
Can there be better testimony in his favour , Mr. Gilmore , than the testimony of the woman 's mother ? '' 
If the answer to your note of inquiry proves to be satisfactory , I , for one , can not see what more any friend of Sir Percival 's can possibly expect from him . '' 
Sir Percival was in such boisterous high spirits that I hardly recognized him as the same man whose quiet tact , refinement , and good sense had impressed me so strongly at the interview of the morning . 
The only trace of his former self that I could detect , reappeared , every now and then , in his manner towards Miss Fairlie . 
A look or a word from her , suspended his loudest laugh , checked his gayest flow of talk , and rendered him all attention to her , and to no one else at table , in an instant . 
Although he never openly tried to draw her into the conversation , he never lost the slightest chance she gave him of letting her drift into it by accident , and of saying the words to her , under those favourable circumstances , which a man with less tact and delicacy would have pointedly addressed to her the moment they occurred to him . 
On the next day , the Tuesday , Sir Percival went in the morning -LRB- taking one of the servants with him as a guide -RRB- to Todd 's Corner . 
His inquiries , as I afterwards heard , led to no results . 
On his return , he had an interview with Mr. Fairlie ; and in the afternoon he and Miss Halcombe rode out together . 
Sir Percival , when the letter was shown to him , did not appear to be struck by the sharp , short tone of it . 
He told us that Mrs. Catherick was a woman of few words , a clear-headed , straightforward , unimaginative person , who wrote briefly and plainly , just as she spoke . 
`` If we are friends of Sir Percival 's , who know him and trust him , we have done all , and more than all , that is necessary , '' I answered , a little annoyed by this return of her hesitation . 
`` But if we are enemies who suspect him -- '' `` That alternative is not even to be thought of , '' she interposed . 
`` We are Sir Percival 's friends ; and , if generosity and forbearance can add to our regard for him , we ought to be Sir Percival 's admirers as well . 
You know that he saw Mr. Fairlie yesterday , and that he afterwards went out with me ? '' 
But we soon dropped that subject ; and Sir Percival spoke next , in the most unselfish terms , of his engagement with Laura . 
He said he had observed that she was out of spirits , and he was willing , if not informed to the contrary , to attribute to that cause the alteration in her manner towards him during his present visit . 
If , however , there was any other more serious reason for the change , he would entreat that no constraint might be placed on her inclinations either by Mr. Fairlie or by me . 
`` He has begged you not to force her inclinations . '' 
`` And he indirectly obliges me to force them , if I give her his message . '' 
You know that she never broke a promise in her life ; you know that she entered on this engagement at the beginning of her father 's fatal illness , and that he spoke hopefully and happily of her marriage to Sir Percival Glyde on his death-bed . '' 
`` Surely , '' I said , `` you do n't mean to infer that when Sir Percival spoke to you yesterday , he speculated on such a result as you have just mentioned ? '' 
If that unlucky letter has prejudiced her against him , go at once , and tell her that he has cleared himself in your eyes and in mine . 
What objection can she urge against him after that ? 
He was too gallant a gentleman not to grant the request immediately . 
Indisposition was the excuse ; and I thought Sir Percival looked , as well he might , a little annoyed when he heard of it . 
I had entered the room , feeling that Sir Percival Glyde had fair reason to complain of the manner in which she was treating him . 
I left it , secretly hoping that matters might end in her taking him at his word and claiming her release . 
`` If you are ever in my neighbourhood , '' he said , `` pray do n't forget that I am sincerely anxious to improve our acquaintance . 
As I drove away to the station , I felt as if I could cheerfully do anything to promote the interests of Sir Percival Glyde -- anything in the world , except drawing the marriage-settlement of his wife . 
It announced that Sir Percival Glyde had been definitely accepted , and that the marriage was to take place , as he had originally desired , before the end of the year . 
In six lines my correspondent announced the proposed marriage ; in three more , she told me that Sir Percival had left Cumberland to return to his house in Hampshire ; and in two concluding sentences she informed me , first , that Laura was sadly in want of change and cheerful society ; secondly , that she had resolved to try the effect of some such change forthwith , by taking her sister away with her on a visit to certain old friends in Yorkshire . 
Thus , Sir Percival 's prospects in marrying Miss Fairlie -LRB- so far as his wife 's expectations from real property were concerned -RRB- promised him these two advantages , on Mr. Frederick Fairlie 's death : First , the use of three thousand a year -LRB- by his wife 's permission , while she lived , and , in his own right , on her death , if he survived her -RRB- ; and , secondly , the inheritance of Limmeridge for his son , if he had one . 
My stipulation in regard to the twenty thousand pounds , was simply this : The whole amount was to be settled so as to give the income to the lady for her life ; afterwards to Sir Percival for his life ; and the principal to the children of the marriage . 
The principalto go to Sir Percival Glyde , in the event of his surviving Lady Glyde , and there being no issue . '' 
The knowledge of Sir Percival 's affairs which I had necessarily gained when the provisions of the deed on hisside were submitted in due course to my examination , had but too plainly informed me that the debts on his estate were enormous , and that his income , though nominally a large one , was , virtually , for a man in his position , next to nothing . 
The want of ready money was the practical necessity of Sir Percival 's existence ; and his lawyer 's note on the clause in the settlement was nothing but the frankly selfish expression of it . 
Those were Sir Percival 's words a fortnight ago ; and all I can get him to do now is to repeat them . 
But if Sir Percival wo n't go into the matter , if Sir Percival will blindly leave all his interests in my sole care , what course can I possibly take except the course of asserting them ? 
Sir Percival has his suspicions that Somebody is keeping her in hiding ; and we are having that Somebody watched . '' 
Sir Percival wanted to question him , at once ; but I said , ` No . 
Questioning him will only put him on his guard : watch him , and wait . ' 
If you stand firm , Sir Percival must give way -- he must give way , I tell you , or he exposes himself to the base imputation of marrying Miss Fairlie entirely from mercenary motives . '' 
How you detest Glyde , because he happens to be a baronet . 
I may regret that he has so unreservedly resigned himself in this matter to his lawyer 's direction as to make any appeal to himself impossible ; but I am not prejudiced against him . 
You want to upset me , to upset yourself , to upset Glyde , and to upset Laura ; and -- oh , dear me ! 
`` To tell Sir Percival Glyde the truth , with my own lips , '' she answered , `` and to let him release me , if he will , not because I ask him , but because he knows all . '' 
Sir Percival will know enough -LRB- he has told me so himself -RRB- if he knows that the engagement is opposed to your own wishes . '' 
`` Can I tell him that , when the engagement was made for me by my father , with my own consent ? 
you will never lower yourself by making a confession to him ? '' 
`` I shall lower myself , indeed , if I gain my release by hiding from him what he has a right to know . '' 
`` He has not the shadow of a right to know it ! '' 
Better that Sir Percival should doubt my motives and misjudge my conduct if he will , than that I should be first false to him in thought , and then mean enough to serve my own interests by hiding the falsehood . '' 
Let me speak to him to-morrow -- in your presence , Marian . 
Only let me know and feel that I have no deception to answer for on my side ; and then , when he has heard what I have to say , let him act towards me as he will . '' 
She said , very quietly , that she wished to speak to him , after breakfast , and that he would find her in her sitting-room with me . 
He changed colour at those words , and I felt his hand trembling a little when it came to my turn to take it . 
The event of the next morning would decide his future life ; and he evidently knew it . 
He writes shortly and bitterly about Sir Percival 's explanations ; only saying that he has no right to offer an opinion on the conduct of those who are above him . 
This is sad ; but his occasional references to himself grieve me still more . 
He says that the effort to return to his old habits and pursuits , grows harder instead of easier to him , every day ; and he implores me , if I have any interest , to exert it to get him employment that will necessitate his absence from England , and take him among new scenes and new people . 
I have been made all the readier to comply with this request , by a passage at the end of his letter , which has almost alarmed me . 
After mentioning that he has neither seen nor heard anything of Anne Catherick , he suddenly breaks off , and hints in the most abrupt , mysterious manner , that he has been perpetually watched and followed by strange men ever since he returned to London . 
He acknowledges that he can not prove this extraordinary suspicion by fixing on any particular persons ; but he declares that the suspicion itself is present to him night and day . 
This has frightened me , because it looks as if his one fixed idea about Laura was becoming too much for his mind . 
I will write immediately to some of my mother 's influential old friends in London , and press his claims on their notice . 
Change of scene and change of occupation may really be the salvation of him at this crisis in his life . 
He had taken an early cup of coffee in his own room , and he was still engaged there in writing letters . 
At eleven o'clock , if that hour was convenient , he would do himself the honour of waiting on Miss Fairlie and Miss Halcombe . 
There was suppressed anxiety and agitation in every line of his face . 
The dry , sharp cough , which teases him at most times , seemed to be troubling him more incessantly than ever . 
He sat down opposite to us at the table ; and Laura remained by me . 
I looked attentively at them both , and he was the palest of the two . 
He said a few unimportant words , with a visible effort to preserve his customary ease of manner . 
But his voice was not to be steadied , and the restless uneasiness in his eyes was not to be concealed . 
He must have felt this himself ; for he stopped in the middle of a sentence , and gave up even the attempt to hide his embarrassment any longer . 
There was just one moment of dead silence before Laura addressed him . 
She looked at him , and he looked at her . 
His attentive face relaxed a little . 
But I saw one of his feet , softly , quietly , incessantly beating on the carpet under the table ; and I felt that he was secretly as anxious as ever . 
`` May I ask , '' he said , `` if I have ever proved myself unworthy of the trust , which it has been hitherto my greatest honour and greatest happiness to possess ? '' 
The uneasy beating of his foot suddenly stopped ; and he leaned forward eagerly across the table . 
he said . 
His face turned so pale again , that even his lips lost their colour . 
He raised the arm which lay on the table ; turned a little away in his chair ; and supported his head on his hand , so that his profile only was presented to us . 
he asked . 
The tone in which he put the question jarred on me -- there was something painfully suppressed in it . 
She stopped me by a warning pressure of her hand , and then addressed Sir Percival once more ; but , this time , without looking at him . 
A few tears gathered in her eyes , and dropped over her cheeks slowly , as she paused and waited for his answer . 
He did not utter a word . 
At the beginning of her reply , he had moved the hand on which his head rested , so that it hid his face . 
I saw nothing but the upper part of his figure at the table . 
Not a muscle of him moved . 
The fingers of the hand which supported his head were dented deep in his hair . 
There was nothing , absolutely nothing to tell the secret of his thoughts at that moment -- the moment which was the crisis of his life and the crisis of hers . 
I was determined to make him declare himself , for Laura 's sake . 
That last rash sentence opened a way for him by which to escape me if he chose ; and he instantly took advantage of it . 
`` Pardon me , Miss Halcombe , '' he said , still keeping his hand over his face -- `` pardon me , if I remind you that I have claimed no such right . '' 
The few plain words which would have brought him back to the point from which he had wandered , were just on my lips , when Laura checked me by speaking again . 
He made that brief reply , warmly ; dropping his hand on the table , while he spoke , and turning towards us again . 
Whatever outward change had passed over him , was gone now . 
His face was eager and expectant -- it expressed nothing but the most intense anxiety to hear her next words . 
`` Both those trusts are sacred to me , '' he said , `` and both shall be sacredly kept . '' 
After answering in those terms , he paused , and looked at her , as if he was waiting to hear more . 
`` You have said more than enough , '' he answered , `` to make it the dearest object of my life to keepthe engagement . '' 
With those words he rose from his chair , and advanced a few steps towards the place where she was sitting . 
I even waited and watched , now , when the harm was done , for a word from Sir Percival that would give me the opportunity of putting him in the wrong . 
`` You have left it to me , Miss Fairlie , to resign you , '' he continued . 
He spoke with such warmth and feeling , with such passionate enthusiasm and yet with such perfect delicacy , that she raised her head , flushed up a little , and looked at him with sudden animation and spirit . 
`` May she not give it in the future , '' he asked , `` if the one object of her husband 's life is to deserve it ? '' 
I tried hard to feel that Sir Percival was to blame , and to say so ; but my womanhood would pity him , in spite of myself . 
`` I gratefully accept your faith and truth , '' he said . 
He raised it gently to his lips -- touched it with them , rather than kissed it -- bowed to me -- and then , with perfect delicacy and discretion , silently quitted the room . 
She neither moved , nor said a word , when he was gone -- she sat by me , cold and still , with her eyes fixed on the ground . 
`` I must part from everything that reminds me of him , '' she said . 
`` You write to him , and he writes to you , '' she said . 
`` While I am alive , if he asks after me , always tell him I am well , and never say I am unhappy . 
Do n't distress him , Marian -- for mysake , do n't distress him . 
If I die first , promise you will give him this little book of his drawings , with my hair in it . 
There can be no harm , when I am gone , in telling him that I put it there with my own hands . 
And say -- oh , Marian , say for me , then , what I can never say for myself -- say I loved him ! '' 
He assured me that the unparalleled trust she had placed in him had awakened such an answering conviction of her innocence and integrity in his mind , that he was guiltless of having felt even a moment 's unworthy jealousy , either at the time when he was in her presence , or afterwards when he had withdrawn from it . 
Deeply as he lamented the unfortunate attachment which had hindered the progress he might otherwise have made in her esteem and regard , he firmly believed that it had remained unacknowledged in the past , and that it would remain , under all changes of circumstance which it was possible to contemplate , unacknowledged in the future . 
This was his absolute conviction ; and the strongest proof he could give of it was the assurance , which he now offered , that he felt no curiosity to know whether the attachment was of recent date or not , or who had been the object of it . 
His implicit confidence in Miss Fairlie made him satisfied with what she had thought fit to say to him , and he was honestly innocent of the slightest feeling of anxiety to hear more . 
He waited , after saying those words , and looked at me . 
I was so conscious of my unreasonable prejudice against him -- so conscious of an unworthy suspicion , that he might be speculating on my impulsively answering the very questions which he had just described himself as resolved not to ask -- that I evaded all reference to this part of the subject with something like a feeling of confusion on my own part . 
At the same time , I was resolved not to lose even the smallest opportunity of trying to plead Laura 's cause ; and I told him boldly that I regretted his generosity had not carried him one step father , and induced him to withdraw from the engagement altogether . 
Here , again , he disarmed me by not attempting to defend himself . 
He would merely beg me to remember the difference there was between his allowing Miss Fairlie to give him up , which was a matter of submission only , and his forcing himself to give up Miss Fairlie , which was , in other words , asking him to be the suicide of his own hopes . 
Her conduct of the day before had so strengthened the unchangeable love and admiration of two long years , that all active contention against those feelings , on his part , was henceforth entirely out of his power . 
I must think him weak , selfish , unfeeling towards the very woman whom he idolised , and he must bow to my opinion as resignedly as he could ; only putting it to me , at the same time , whether her future as a single woman , pining under an unhappily placed attachment which she could never acknowledge , could be said to promise her a much brighter prospect than her future as the wife of a man who worshipped the very ground she walked on ? 
Sir Percival immediately assured me that he felt the force of my objection , and begged me to believe that the proposal had not been made in consequence of any interference on his part . 
-- Sir Percival put some questions to me , at breakfast , about Laura , which left me no choice but to tell him what she had said . 
When breakfast was over , he had an opportunity of saying a few words to her privately , in a recess of one of the windows . 
He said he had entreated her to favour him by maintaining her privilege of fixing the time for the marriage at her own will and pleasure . 
In reply , she had merely expressed her acknowledgements , and had desired him to mention what his wishes were to Miss Halcombe . 
In this instance , as in every other , Sir Percival has carried his point , with the utmost possible credit to himself , in spite of everything that I can say or do . 
His wishes are now , what they were , of course , when he first came here ; and Laura having resigned herself to the one inevitable sacrifice of the marriage , remains as coldly hopeless and enduring as ever . 
It is only three o'clock in the afternoon while I write these lines , and Sir Percival has left us already , in the happy hurry of a bridegroom , to prepare for the bride 's reception at his house in Hampshire . 
Unless some extraordinary event happens to prevent it , they will be married exactly at the time when he wished to be married -- before the end of the year . 
Sir Percival wrote back by the next post , and proposed -LRB- in accordance with his own views and wishes , from the first -RRB- the latter part of December -- perhaps the twenty-second , or twenty-fourth , or any other day that the lady and her guardian might prefer . 
`` Who cares for his causes of complaint ? 
Are you to break your heart to set his mind at ease ? 
They are the enemies of our innocence and our peace -- they drag us away from our parents ' love and our sisters ' friendship -- they take us body and soul to themselves , and fasten our helpless lives to theirs as they chain up a dog to his kennel . 
The last news is , that the alterations in his house will occupy from four to six months , before they can be properly completed . 
As it is , the only part of Sir Percival 's last letter which does not leave me as it found me , perfectly indifferent to all his plans and projects , is the part which refers to the wedding tour . 
He proposes , as Laura is delicate , and as the winter threatens to be unusually severe , to take her to Rome , and to remain in Italy until the early part of next summer . 
If this plan should not be approved , he is equally ready , although he has no establishment of his own in town , to spend the season in London , in the most suitable furnished house that can be obtained for the purpose . 
I was obliged to warn her , that my chance of living with her permanently under her own roof , depended entirely on my not arousing Sir Percival 's jealousy and distrust by standing between them at the beginning of their marriage , in the position of the chosen depository of his wife 's closest secrets . 
Better mine than his -- that is all my consolation -- better mine than his . 
In the turn affairs have now taken , I must and will root out my prejudice against him . 
Is it Laura 's reluctance to become his wife that has set me against him ? 
I can not account for the state of my own feelings : the one thing I am certain of is , that it is my duty -- doubly my duty , now -- not to wrong Sir Percival by unjustly distrusting him . 
If it has got to be a habit with me always to write of him in the same unfavourable manner , I must and will break myself of this unworthy tendency , even though the effort should force me to close the pages of my journal till the marriage is over ! 
He offered , in case we wished to treat him on terms of rigid etiquette , to write and ask our clergyman to grant him the hospitality of the rectory , during the short period of his sojourn at Limmeridge , before the marriage . 
I wrote to Sir Percival to thank him for his polite offer , and to beg that he would occupy his old rooms , just as usual , at Limmeridge House . 
-- He arrived to-day , looking , as I thought , a little worn and anxious , but still talking and laughing like a man in the best possible spirits . 
He interprets it , I can see , to his own advantage . 
There is a feverish flush in her cheeks , a feverish brightness in her eyes , which he welcomes as the return of her beauty and the recovery of her spirits . 
The anxiety which I had noticed on his face when he arrived , totally disappeared from it ; and he looked even to my eyes , a good ten years younger than he really is . 
One , his incessant restlessness and excitability -- which may be caused , naturally enough , by unusual energy of character . 
He was walking rapidly , swinging his stick ; his head erect as usual , and his shooting jacket flying open in the wind . 
When we met , he did not wait for me to ask any questions -- he told me , at once , that he had been to the farm to inquire if Mr. or Mrs. Todd had received any tidings since his last visit to Limmeridge , of Anne Catherick . 
`` Nothing whatever , '' he replied . 
Do you happen to know , '' he continued , looking me in the face very attentively , `` if the artist -- Mr. Hartright -- is in a position to give us any further information ? '' 
To-day , I approached the subject of my proposed sojourn under his wife 's roof , when he brings her back to England . 
I had hardly dropped my first hint in this direction , before he caught me warmly by the hand , and said I had made the very offer to him , which he had been , on his side , most anxious to make to me . 
All I know of him is that his accidental presence , years ago , on the steps of the Trinità del Monte at Rome , assisted Sir Percival 's escape from robbery and assassination , at the critical moment when he was wounded in the hand , and might , the next instant , have been wounded in the heart . 
I wonder if he will ever come to England ? 
I wonder if I shall like him ? 
It is certain that Sir Percival 's reception of my venturesome proposal to live with his wife , was more than kind , it was almost affectionate . 
I flatly deny his good looks . 
I consider him to be eminently ill-tempered and disagreeable , and totally wanting in kindness and good feeling . 
He took no notice of the change : he seemed to be barbarously unconscious that he had said anything to pain her . 
All my old feelings of hostility towards him revived on the instant ; and all the hours that have passed , since , have done nothing to dissipate them . 
-- in three words , I hate him . 
That short , sharp cough of his troubled him more than ever . 
He was in and out of the house all day long : and he seemed to grow so inquisitive , on a sudden , that he questioned the very strangers who came on small errands to the house . 
Sir Percival may fill the house from floor to ceiling , if he likes , on condition that his wife and I inhabit it together . 
I had been previously uncertain whether I was to meet them in London , or in Hampshire ; but this last letter informed me , that Sir Percival proposed to land at Southampton , and to travel straight on to his countryhouse . 
He has spent so much money abroad , that he has none left to defray the expenses of living in London , for the remainder of the season ; and he is economically resolved to pass the summer and autumn quietly at Blackwater . 
For some unexplained reason , the Count and his wife appear to have changed their plans abruptly , at the end of last autumn , and to have gone to Vienna , instead of going to Rome , at which latter place Sir Percival had expected to find them when he left England . 
If that was the case , why should she be anxious to have her visit at Blackwater Park kept a secret from him ? 
`` Probably , '' I said , seeing that the housekeeper expected me to give my opinion on Mrs. Catherick 's parting words ; `` probably , she thought the announcement of her visit might vex Sir Percival to no purpose , by reminding him that her lost daughter was not found yet . 
`` She talked principally of Sir Percival , and asked a great many questions about where he had been travelling , and what sort of lady his new wife was . 
What have I observed in Sir Percival , since his return , to improve my opinion of him ? 
Small vexations and annoyances seem to have beset him since he came back : and no man , under those circumstances , is ever presented at his best . 
He looks , as I think , thinner than he was when he left England . 
His wearisome cough and his comfortless restlessness have certainly increased . 
His manner -- at least , his manner towards me -- is much more abrupt than it used to be . 
He greeted me , on the evening of his return , with little or nothing of the ceremony and civility of former times -- no polite speeches of welcome -- no appearance of extraordinary gratification at seeing me -- nothing but a short shake of the hand , and a sharp `` How-d'ye-do , Miss Halcombe -- glad to see you again . '' 
He seemed to accept me as one of the necessary fixtures of Blackwater Park ; to be satisfied at finding me established in my proper place ; and then to pass me over altogether . 
Most men show something of their dispositions in their own houses , which they have concealed elsewhere ; and Sir Percival has already displayed a mania for order and regularity , which is quite a new revelation of him , so far as my previous knowledge of his character is concerned . 
If I take a book from the library and leave it on the table , he follows me , and puts it back again . 
If I rise from a chair , and let it remain where I have been sitting , he carefully restores it to its proper place against the wall . 
He picks up stray flower-blossoms from the carpet , and mutters to himself as discontentedly as if they were hot cinders burning holes in it ; and he storms at the servants , if there is a crease in the tablecloth , or a knife missing from its place at the dinner-table , as fiercely as if they had personally insulted him . 
I have already referred to the small annoyances which appear to have troubled him since his return . 
Much of the alteration for the worse which I have noticed in him , may be due to these . 
The housekeeper mentioned to him , in reply , what she had previously mentioned to me , the visit of the strange gentleman to make inquiries about the time of her master 's return . 
Why he should have been so discomposed by a trifle I can not say -- but he was seriously discomposed , beyond all doubt . 
Upon the whole , it will be best , perhaps , if I abstain from forming a decisive opinion of his manners , language , and conduct in his own house , until time has enabled him to shake off the anxieties , whatever they may be , which now evidently trouble his mind in secret . 
His complexion , for instance , has a singular sallow-fairness , so much at variance with the dark-brown colour of his hair , that I suspect the hair of being a wig ; and his face , closely shaven all over , is smoother and freer from all marks and wrinkles than mine , though -LRB- according to Sir Percival 's account of him -RRB- he is close on sixty years of age . 
But these are not the prominent personal characteristics which distinguish him , to my mind , from all the other men I have ever seen . 
The marked peculiarity which singles him out from the rank and file of humanity , lies entirely , so far as I can tell at present , in the extraordinary expression and extraordinary power of his eyes . 
His manner , and his command of our language , may also have assisted him , in some degree , to establish himself in my good opinion . 
He has that quiet deference , that look of pleased , attentive interest , in listening to a woman , and that secret gentleness in his voice , in speaking to a woman , which , say what we may , we can none of us resist . 
Here , too , his unusual command of the English language necessarily helps him . 
The relation of this last incident reminds me of one of his most curious peculiarities , which I have not yet mentioned -- his extraordinary fondness for pet animals . 
Some of these he has left on the Continent , but he has brought with him to this house a cockatoo , two canary-birds , and a whole family of white mice . 
He attends to all the necessities of these strange favourites himself , and he has taught the creatures to be surprisingly fond of him , and familiar with him . 
The cockatoo , a most vicious and treacherous bird towards every one else , absolutely seems to love him . 
When he lets it out of its cage , it hops on to his knee , and claws its way up his great big body , and rubs its topknot against his sallow double chin in the most caressing manner imaginable . 
He has only to set the doors of the canaries ' cages open , and to call them ; and the pretty little cleverly trained creatures perch fearlessly on his hand , mount his fat outstretched fingers one by one , when he tells them to `` go up-stairs , '' and sing together as if they would burst their throats with delight , when they get to the top finger . 
His white mice live in a little pagoda of gaily-painted wirework , designed and made by himself . 
They crawl all over him , popping in and out of his waistcoat , and sitting in couples , white as snow , on his capacious shoulders . 
He seems to be even fonder of his mice than of his other pets , smiles at them , and kisses them , and calls them by all sorts of endearing names . 
He puts the rudest remarks Sir Percival can make on his effeminate tastes and amusements , quietly away from him in that manner -- always calling the baronet by his Christian name ; smiling at him with the calmest superiority ; patting him on the shoulder ; and bearing with him benignantly , as a good-humoured father bears with a wayward son . 
The interest which I really can not help feeling in this strangely original man , has led me to question Sir Percival about his past life . 
He and the Count first met many years ago , at Rome , under the dangerous circumstances to which I have alluded elsewhere . 
Since that time , they have been perpetually together in London , in Paris , and in Vienna -- but never in Italy again ; the Count having , oddly enough , not crossed the frontiers of his native country for years past . 
Perhaps , he has been made the victim of some political persecution ? 
At all events , he seems to be patriotically anxious not to lose sight of any of his own countrymen who may happen to be in England . 
On the evening of his arrival , he asked how far we were from the nearest town , and whether we knew of any Italian gentlemen who might happen to be settled there . 
He is certainly in correspondence with people on the Continent , for his letters have all sorts of odd stamps on them ; and I saw one for him , this morning , waiting in his place at the breakfast-table , with a huge official-looking seal on it . 
Perhaps he is in correspondence with his government ? 
And yet , that is hardly to be reconciled , either , with my other idea that he may be a political exile . 
Free , and even rude , as he may occasionally be in his manner towards his fat friend , Sir Percival is nevertheless afraid , as I can plainly see , of giving any serious offence to the Count . 
We were all at lunch , in the room with the new French windows that open into the verandah ; and the Count -LRB- who devours pastry as I have never yet seen it devoured by any human beings but girls at boarding-schools -RRB- had just amused us by asking gravely for his fourth tart -- when the servant entered , to announce the visitor . 
he repeated as if he thought his own ears must have deceived him . 
`` Where is he ? '' 
He left the table the instant the last answer was given ; and hurried out of the room without saying a word to any of us . 
The Count had finished his fourth tart , and had gone to a side-table to look after his vicious cockatoo . 
He turned round to us , with the bird perched on his shoulder . 
`` Mr. Merriman is Sir Percival 's solicitor , '' he said quietly . 
There were no signs of his return ; and we rose to leave the room . 
The Count , attentive as usual , advanced from the corner in which he had been feeding his cockatoo , with the bird still perched on his shoulder , and opened the door for us . 
Just as I was on the point of following them , he made a sign with his hand , and spoke to me , before I passed him , in the oddest manner . 
`` Yes , '' he said ; quietly answering the unexpressed idea at that moment in my mind , as if I had plainly confided it to him in so many words -- `` yes , Miss Halcombe ; something hashappened . '' 
But the vicious cockatoo ruffled his clipped wings , and gave a screech that set all my nerves on edge in an instant , and made me only too glad to get out of the room . 
About two hours after Sir Percival rose from the luncheon-table to receive his solicitor , Mr. Merriman , in the library , I left my room , alone , to take a walk in the plantations . 
`` How should he have known , otherwise , that Mr. Merriman was Sir Percival 's solicitor ? '' 
Perhaps , I dislike him because he has so much more power over my husband than I have . 
Perhaps it hurts my pride to be under any obligations to his interference . 
All I know is , that I dodislike him . '' 
But either that event , or something else , had produced a singular alteration for the better in him . 
He was as polite and agreeable to all of us , as he used to be in the days of his probation at Limmeridge ; and he was so amazingly attentive and kind to his wife , that even icy Madame Fosco was roused into looking at him with a grave surprise . 
I caught Sir Percival looking at him for approval more than once in the course of the evening . 
Sir Percival was as silent at breakfast as he had been the evening before , on the subject of the mysterious `` arrangement '' -LRB- as the lawyer called it -RRB- , which is hanging over our heads . 
`` We expect to see him here directly , '' I said . 
He stopped , and appeared to notice , for the first time that we were in our walking costume . 
he asked , `` or were you just going out ? '' 
`` But if you have any other arrangement to propose -- '' `` No , no , '' he answered , hastily . 
There was no mistaking his manner , even if it had been possible to mistake the uncharacteristic readiness which his words expressed , to submit his own plans and projects to the convenience of others . 
He was evidently relieved at finding any excuse for delaying the business formality in the library , to which his own words had referred . 
The Count and his wife joined us , at that moment . 
It seems to be part of his restless disposition always to separate himself from his companions on these occasions , and always to occupy himself , when he is alone , in cutting new walking-sticks for his own use . 
The mere act of cutting and lopping , at hazard , appears to please him . 
He has filled the house with walking-sticks of his own making , not one of which he ever takes up for a second time . 
When they have been once used , his interest in them is all exhausted , and he thinks of nothing but going on , and making more . 
At the old boat-house , he joined us again . 
The boat-house was large enough to hold us all ; but Sir Percival remained outside , trimming the last new stick with his pocket-axe . 
`` Some people call that picturesque , '' said Sir Percival , pointing over the wide prospect with his half-finished walking-stick . 
said Sir Percival , cutting away fiercely at his stick . 
Laura looked at the Count , with her dislike for him appearing a little too plainly in her face . 
He was so busy with his mice that he did not notice her . 
He lifted one of the white mice in the palm of his hand , and spoke to it in his whimsical way . 
`` My pretty little smooth white rascal , '' he said , `` here is a moral lesson for you . 
The Count shrugged his huge shoulders , and smiled on Laura in the friendliest manner . 
he said . 
`` Stand to your guns , Laura , '' sneered Sir Percival , who had been listening in his place at the door . 
Sir Percival burst out laughing ; so violently , so outrageously , that he quite startled us all -- the Count more than any of us . 
Sir Percival , who had been unaccountably amused at his wife 's remark , was , just as unaccountably , irritated by mine . 
He struck the new stick savagely on the sand , and walked away from us . 
cried Count Fosco , looking after him gaily ; `` he is the victim of English spleen . 
Sir Percival had recovered his equanimity , and had come back while we were listening to the Count . 
But I do n't see why Count Fosco should celebrate the victory of the criminal over society with so much exultation , or why you , Sir Percival , should applaud him so loudly for doing it . '' 
The Count laughed inwardly and silently ; and two of the white mice in his waistcoat , alarmed by the internal convulsion going on beneath them , darted out in a violent hurry , and scrambled into their cage again . 
`` The ladies , my good Percival , shall tell meabout virtue , '' he said . 
`` You hear him ? '' 
He took out of his pocket a pretty little inlaid box , and placed it open on the table . 
He had been entirely absorbed in writing figures on the sand , and then rubbing them out again , with the point of his stick . 
he asked , lounging carelessly into the boat-house . 
said the Count , catching him nervously by the collar with one hand , and pointing with the other to the place near which he had found the mouse . 
`` Not dirt , '' whispered the Count , fastening the other hand suddenly on Sir Percival 's collar , and shaking it in his agitation . 
Laura was near enough to hear the last word , softly as he whispered it . 
persisted Sir Percival , repeating his question a little irritably . 
The housekeeper 's report of Mrs. Catherick 's desire to conceal her visit to Blackwater Park from Sir Percival 's knowledge , recurred to my memory the moment he put that last question ; and I half doubted the discretion of answering it . 
Sir Percival had hitherto remained at the inner end of the boat-house with Count Fosco , while I spoke to him from the door . 
But the instant Mrs. Catherick 's name passed my lips , he pushed by the Count roughly , and placed himself face to face with me , under the open daylight . 
he asked , fixing his eyes on mine with a frowning interest and attention , which half angered , half startled me . 
The manner in which he put the question was even more offensive than the language in which he expressed it . 
I marked my sense of his want of common politeness , by silently turning away from him . 
Just as I moved , the Count 's persuasive hand was laid on his shoulder , and the Count 's mellifluous voice interposed to quiet him . 
Sir Percival looked round in his angriest manner . 
`` I beg your pardon , Miss Halcombe , '' he said . 
he said . 
With those words , he instantly left us to return to the house . 
He had a host of questions to put to me about Mrs. Catherick , and the cause of her visit to Blackwater Park , which he could scarcely have asked in his friend 's presence . 
Intimately as he knows Sir Percival , and closely as he appears to be associated with Sir Percival 's private affairs in general , he is certainly as far as I am from knowing anything of the true story of Anne Catherick . 
The unsolved mystery in connexion with this unhappy woman is now rendered doubly suspicious , in my eyes , by the absolute conviction which I feel , that the clue to it has been hidden by Sir Percival from the most intimate friend he has in the world . 
It was impossible to mistake the eager curiosity of the Count 's look and manner while he drank in greedily every word that fell from my lips . 
As soon as we reached the house , the first object that we saw in front of it was Sir Percival 's dog-cart , with the horse put to and the groom waiting by it in his stable-jacket . 
When Sir Percival was in Cumberland -LRB- I thought to myself -RRB- , he walked away a long distance , on Anne 's account , to question the family at Todd 's Corner . 
Now he is in Hampshire , is he going to drive away a long distance , on Anne 's account again , to question Mrs. Catherick at Welmingham ? 
He looked hurried and pale and anxious -- but , for all that , he was in his most polite mood , when he spoke to us . 
`` I am sorry to say , I am obliged to leave you , '' he began -- `` a long drive -- a matter that I ca n't very well put off . 
He held the library door open until they had passed in , followed them , and shut it softly . 
`` I must beg you to come down stairs again , '' he said . 
He spread out his fat fingers on the bosom of his blouse , and bowed solemnly , as if he wished to introduce his conscience to us all , in the character of an illustrious addition to the society . 
`` What this document which Lady Glyde is about to sign , may be , '' he continued , `` I neither know nor desire to know . 
I only say this : circumstances may happen in the future which may oblige Percival , or his representatives , to appeal to the two witnesses ; in which case it is certainly desirable that those witnesses should represent two opinions which are perfectly independent the one of the other . 
He bowed again , stepped back a few paces , and withdrew his conscience from our society as politely as he had introduced it . 
The Count 's scruples might have been honourable and reasonable enough , but there was something in his manner of expressing them which increased my unwillingness to be concerned in the business of the signature . 
Sir Percival looked at me sharply , as if he was about to say something . 
But , at the same moment , Madame Fosco attracted his attention by rising from her chair . 
He placed it on the table , opened the last fold only , and kept his hand on the rest . 
Every line of the writing was hidden in the part which he still held folded up under his hand . 
Sir Percival dipped a pen in ink , and handed it to his wife . 
`` Sign your name , there , '' he said , pointing to the place . 
The Count threw away his cigarette , and joined us at the table , with his hands carelessly thrust into the scarlet belt of his blouse , and his eyes steadily fixed on Sir Percival 's face . 
`` Control your unfortunate temper , Percival , '' he said . 
I started to my feet as suddenly as if he had struck me . 
If I had been a man , I would have knocked him down on the threshold of his own door , and have left his house , never , on any earthly consideration , to enter it again . 
But I was only a woman -- and I loved his wife so dearly ! 
he reiterated , in his loudest and angriest tones . 
he said . 
Sir Percival turned on him , speechless with passion . 
The Count 's firm hand slowly tightened its grasp on his shoulder , and the Count 's steady voice , quietly repeated , `` Be good enough , if you please , to remember it , too . '' 
They both looked at each other : Sir Percival slowly drew his shoulder from under the Count 's hand ; slowly turned his face away from the Count 's eyes ; doggedly looked down for a little while at the parchment on the table ; and then spoke , with the sullen submission of a tamed animal , rather than the becoming resignation of a convinced man . 
he repeated . 
The instant he spoke those words , Laura threw down the pen -- looked at him with an expression in her eyes , which throughout all my experience of her , I had never seen in them before -- and turned her back on him in dead silence . 
Laura would have left the room without noticing him ; but I stopped her . 
Sir Percival sat down at the table , with his elbow on the folded parchment , and his head resting on his clenched fist . 
The Count stood between us -- master of the dreadful position in which we were placed , as he was master of everything else . 
`` Lady Glyde , '' he said , with a gentleness which seemed to address itself to our forlorn situation instead of to ourselves , `` pray pardon me , if I venture to offer one suggestion ; and pray believe that I speak out of my profound respect and my friendly regard for the mistress of this house . '' 
He turned sharply towards Sir Percival . 
`` Is it absolutely necessary , '' he asked , `` that this thing here , under your elbow , should be signed to-day ? '' 
`` You are taking a tone with me that I do n't like , '' he said . 
Sir Percival hesitated , and looked at his watch . 
His anxiety about the secret journey which he was to take that day , revived by the Count 's words , was now evidently disputing possession of his mind with his anxiety to obtain Laura 's signature . 
He considered for a little while ; and then got up from his chair . 
`` It is easy to argue me down , '' he said , `` when I have no time to answer you . 
He paused , and looked round darkly at his wife . 
The rest was lost in the noise of his opening the book-case cupboard again , and locking up the parchment once more . 
He took his hat and gloves off the table , and made for the door . 
Laura and I drew back to let him pass . 
he said to his wife ; and went out . 
We waited to give him time to cross the hall , and drive away . 
`` You have just seen Percival at his worst , Miss Halcombe , '' he said . 
`` As his old friend , I am sorry for him and ashamed of him . 
As his old friend , I promise you that he shall not break out to-morrow in the same disgraceful manner in which he has broken out to-day . '' 
Laura had taken my arm while he was speaking , and she pressed it significantly when he had done . 
His influence , the influence of all others that I dreaded most , was actually the one tie which now held me to Laura in the hour of her utmost need ! 
Sir Percival had started on his journey . 
`` Where is he going to , Marian ? '' 
`` Every fresh thing he does , seems to terrify me about the future . 
`` How should I know his secrets , '' I said , evasively . 
Do n't you think he may have gone away to look for her ? '' 
I had not formed this conclusion in consequence of Sir Percival 's refusal to show the writing , or to explain it ; for that refusal might well have proceeded from his obstinate disposition and his domineering temper alone . 
My sole motive for distrusting his honesty , sprang from the change which I had observed in his language and his manners at Blackwater Park , a change which convinced me that he had been acting a part throughout the whole period of his probation at Limmeridge House . 
His elaborate delicacy ; his ceremonious politeness , which harmonized so agreeably with Mr. Gilmore 's old-fashioned notions ; his modesty with Laura , his candour with me , his moderation with Mr. Fairlie -- all these were the artifices of a mean , cunning , and brutal man , who had dropped his disguise when his practised duplicity had gained its end , and had openly shown himself in the library , on that very day . 
Under these circumstances , the one chance for us when to-morrow came , was to be provided with an objection to giving the signature , which might rest on sufficiently firm commercial or legal grounds to shake Sir Percival 's resolution , and to make him suspect that we two women understood the laws and obligations of business as well as himself . 
I will wait here for him , all the morning , to guard against any misadventures or mistakes . 
`` The Count will probably want a fresh supply of cigarettes , '' she remarked , by way of apology ; `` and nobody can make them to his satisfaction , but myself . '' 
I asked him . 
he was not even looking at me ! 
I pulled down my veil , thinking it best not to let him see that the tears were in my eyes . 
I fancied he had not paid any attention to me ; but he had . 
He said , ` Come away , ' and laughed to himself , as he helped me on to my horse . 
He mounted his own horse ; and laughed again as we rode away . 
` If I do build you a tomb , ' he said , ` it will be done with your own money . 
` Ah , you light-complexioned women are all sulky , ' he said . 
It would have been better for me if I had gone on crying ; but his contempt dried up my tears , and hardened my heart . 
He came out to meet us at the house-door . 
Whatever other results his journey might have had , it had not ended in softening his savage temper . 
here are two of you come back , '' he said , with a lowering face . 
I told him of the loss of the brooch , and said that Laura had gone into the plantation to look for it . 
`` Brooch or no brooch , '' he growled , sulkily , `` I recommend her not to forget her appointment in the library , this afternoon . 
He honoured me with one of his magnificent bows ; and then addressed himself gaily to the scowling master of the house . 
`` Tell me , Percival , '' he said , `` have you had a pleasant drive ? 
I lingered long enough , in passing through the hall-door , to hear this question and answer , and to see Sir Percival thrust his hands into his pockets , in sullen hesitation . 
`` If you want to badger me with any more of your infernal scruples , '' he said , `` I , for one , wo n't hear them . 
`` Come out here , and speak to me , '' repeated the Count , still perfectly uninfluenced by the rudest speech that his friend could make to him . 
The Count took him by the arm , and walked him away gently . 
Percival -- who is capricious in everything , as you know -- has seen fit to alter his mind , at the last moment ; and the business of the signature is put off for the present . 
` Because I love the name of Fairlie and hate the name of Glyde , ' she broke out violently . 
The Count had looked up , with his customary kindness , and had mentioned , with his habitual attention to her in the smallest trifles , that he and his friend were going out together for a long walk . 
Sir Percival cared for no exercise but riding : and the Count -LRB- except when he was polite enough to be my escort -RRB- cared for no exercise at all . 
Sir Percival has altered his plans : the business of the signature is put off . '' 
If the object of my signing was , as we suppose , to obtain money for Sir Percival that he urgently wanted , how can the matter be put off ? '' 
I know enough by this time , to be sure that the aspect of Sir Percival which is the most false , and which , therefore , means the worst , is his polite aspect . 
That long walk with his friend had ended in improving his manners , especially towards his wife . 
To Laura 's secret surprise and to my secret alarm , he called her by her Christian name , asked if she had heard lately from her uncle , inquired when Mrs. Vesey was to receive her invitation to Blackwater , and showed her so many other little attentions , that he almost recalled the days of his hateful courtship at Limmeridge House . 
While the aspect under which Sir Percival presented himself , to-night , was unhappily but too familiar to me , the aspect under which the Count appeared , was , on the other hand , entirely new in my experience of him . 
He permitted me , this evening , to make his acquaintance , for the first time , in the character of a Man of Sentiment -- of sentiment , as I believe , really felt , not assumed for the occasion . 
For instance , he was quiet and subdued ; his eyes and his voice expressed a restrained sensibility . 
He wore -LRB- as if there was some hidden connexion between his showiest finery and his deepest feeling -RRB- the most magnificent waistcoat he has yet appeared in -- it was made of pale sea-green silk , and delicately trimmed with fine silver braid . 
His voice sank into the tenderest inflections , his smile expressed a thoughtful , fatherly admiration , whenever he spoke to Laura or to me . 
He pressed his wife 's hand under the table , when she thanked him for trifling little attentions at dinner . 
He took wine with her . 
he said , with fond glistening eyes . 
He ate little or nothing ; and sighed , and said `` Good Percival ! '' 
when his friend laughed at him . 
After dinner , he took Laura by the hand , and asked her if she would be `` so sweet as to play to him . '' 
He sat by the piano , with his watch-chain resting in folds , like a golden serpent , on the sea-green protuberance of his waistcoat . 
His immense head lay languidly on one side ; and he gently beat time with two of his yellow-white fingers . 
He highly approved of the music , and tenderly admired Laura 's manner of playing -- not as poor Hartright used to praise it , with an innocent enjoyment of the sweet sounds , but with a clear , cultivated , practical knowledge of the merits of the composition , in the first place , and of the merits of the player 's touch , in the second . 
My anxiety to know how Sir Percival and the Count would occupy the early part of the day , was by no means set at rest , so far as Sir Percival was concerned , by his leaving us immediately after breakfast , and going out by himself , in spite of the rain . 
He neither told us where he was going , nor when we might expect him back . 
We saw him pass the breakfast-room window , hastily , with his high boots and his waterproof coat on -- and that was all . 
Judging by appearances , the sentimental side of his character was persistently inclined to betray itself still . 
He was silent and sensitive , and ready to sigh and languish ponderously -LRB- as only fat men cansigh and languish -RRB- , on the smallest provocation . 
The Count took his friend 's place at the table -- plaintively devoured the greater part of a fruit tart , submerged under a whole jugful of cream -- and explained the full merit of the achievement to us , as soon as he had done . 
`` A taste for sweets , '' he said in his softest tones and his tenderest manner , `` is the innocent taste of women and children . 
I left the Count with a piece of sugar between his lips , and the vicious cockatoo scrambling up his waistcoat to get at it ; while Madame Fosco , sitting opposite to her husband , watched the proceedings of his bird and himself , as attentively as if she had never seen anything of the sort before in her life . 
They were all three standing up , close together , and Sir Percival had a little slip of paper in his hand . 
As I opened the door , I heard the Count say to him , `` No -- a thousand times over , no . '' 
I walked straight up to him , and looked him full in the face . 
`` Yes ; that iswhat you are to understand , '' he answered . 
Instead of answering me , he turned round to the Count . 
he asked . 
Even in the vehemence of my anger , I felt his calm , cold , gray eyes on my face . 
They turned away from me , as soon as he had spoken , and looked significantly at his wife . 
The declaration he had just heard -- a declaration which he well knew , as I well knew , Madame Fosco would not have ventured to make without her husband 's permission -- seemed to petrify him with surprise . 
cried Sir Percival , as the Count quietly moved away , with his wife , to the door . 
Sir Percival crumpled up the paper in his hand ; and , pushing past the Count , with another oath , stood between him and the door . 
`` Have your own way , '' he said , with baffled rage in his low , half-whispering tones . 
With those words , he left the room . 
`` He has gone away very suddenly , '' she said . 
`` Miss Halcombe , '' he said , `` I am happy to inform you that Lady Glyde is mistress again in her own house . 
He smiled and bowed as if he had received a formal compliment from a polite stranger , and drew back to let me pass out first . 
As I hurried to the stairs I heard him call impatiently to the Count , to come out of the library . 
he said ; `` I want to speak to you . '' 
Neither he nor his friend said any more . 
`` Do n't speak of him , '' she cried . 
In all probability he had followed her there , in his officious way , to relieve her mind about the matter of the signature , immediately after he had mentioned the change in Sir Percival 's plans to me in the drawing-room . 
In this case , he could only have got to the neighbourhood of the boat-house , at the very moment when Anne Catherick discovered him . 
The suspiciously hurried manner in which she parted from Laura , had no doubt prompted his useless attempt to follow her . 
Of the conversation which had previously taken place between them , he could have heard nothing . 
The distance between the house and the lake , and the time at which he left me in the drawing-room , as compared with the time at which Laura and Anne Catherick had been speaking together , proved that fact to us , at any rate , beyond a doubt . 
`` I tried -- but he stopped me . 
` You need n't trouble to hide that , ' he said . 
I could only look at him , helplessly -- I could say nothing . 
he went on ; ` I have read it . 
He stepped close up to me -- I was alone with him , Marian -- what could I do ? 
-- I gave him the letter . '' 
`` What did he say when you gave it to him ? '' 
`` At first , he said nothing . 
He took me by the arm , and led me out of the boat-house , and looked about him , on all sides , as if he was afraid of our being seen or heard . 
Then , he clasped his hand fast round my arm , and whispered to me , -- ` What did Anne Catherick say to you yesterday ? 
''' `` Did you tell him ? '' 
`` I was alone with him , Marian -- his cruel hand was bruising my arm -- what could I do ? '' 
That mark is a weapon to strike him with . 
And you told him all that Anne Catherick had said to you -- all that you told me ? '' 
He insisted on it -- I was alone with him -- I could conceal nothing . '' 
`` Did he say anything when you had done ? '' 
`` He looked at me , and laughed to himself , in a mocking , bitter way . 
` I mean to have the rest out of you , ' he said ; ` do you hear ? 
I declared to him solemnly that I had told him everything I knew . 
he answered ; ` you know more than you choose to tell . 
He led me away by a strange path through the plantation -- a path where there was no hope of our meeting you -- and he spoke no more , till we came within sight of the house . 
Then he stopped again , and said , ` Will you take a second chance , if I give it to you ? 
He cursed my obstinacy , and went on , and took me with him to the house . 
` You ca n't deceive me , ' he said ; ` you know more than you choose to tell . 
He was deaf to everything I could say . 
He took me straight up-stairs into my own room . 
Fanny was sitting there , doing some work for me ; and he instantly ordered her out . 
` I 'll take good care you ` renot mixed up in the conspiracy , ' he said . 
He pushed me into the room , and locked the door on me -- he set that senseless woman to watch me outside -- Marian ! 
he looked and spoke like a madman . 
You may hardly understand it -- he did indeed . '' 
He ismad -- mad with the terrors of a guilty conscience . 
It is impossible to say what violent measures he may take next , unless we make the most of our opportunities while we have them . '' 
The prospect of an exposure may bring him to terms , when nothing else will . '' 
`` You will drive him to desperation , '' she said , `` and increase our dangers tenfold . '' 
Would it be possible to place Sir Percival between the two alternatives of either exposing himself to the scandal of legal interference on his wife 's behalf , or of allowing her to be quietly separated from him for a time , under pretext of a visit to her uncle 's house ? 
He was on the coldest terms -- in some cases , on the worst terms -- with the families of his own rank and station who lived near him . 
I left my correspondent to attribute Sir Percival 's disgraceful conduct , if he pleased , to fresh disputes about money matters ; and simply consulted him on the possibility of taking legal proceedings for Laura 's protection , in the event of her husband 's refusal to allow her to leave Blackwater Park for a time and return with me to Limmeridge . 
I looked over my shoulder , as I passed the doorway ; and saw , to my surprise , that he was exhibiting the docility of the birds , in his most engagingly polite manner , to the housekeeper . 
He must have specially invited her to see them -- for she would never have thought of going into the library of her own accord . 
I contrived to refer to him indirectly ; and , after a little fencing on either side , she at last mentioned that he had gone out . 
As long as I had him to deal with alone , I felt certain of not losing my presence of mind . 
Instead of fluttering , it had composed me , to hear of the errand on which he had gone out . 
While the tracing of Anne Catherick was the great anxiety that occupied him , Laura and I might hope for some cessation of any active persecution at his hands . 
For our sakes now , as well as for Anne 's , I hoped and prayed fervently that she might still escape him . 
`` Yes -- just now -- Sir Percival -- '' `` Did he come in ? '' 
`` No : he frightened me by a thump on the door , outside . 
` You know , ' he answered . 
he called back . 
He went away , with those words -- went away , Marian , hardly five minutes ago . '' 
Sir Percival took Madame Fosco into the dining-room ; and the Count gave me his arm . 
He was hot and flushed , and was not dressed with his customary care and completeness . 
Had he , too , been out before dinner , and been late in getting back ? 
or was he only suffering from the heat a little more severely than usual ? 
However this might be , he was unquestionably troubled by some secret annoyance or anxiety , which , with all his powers of deception , he was not able entirely to conceal . 
Through the whole of dinner , he was almost as silent as Sir Percival himself ; and he , every now and then , looked at his wife with an expression of furtive uneasiness , which was quite new in my experience of him . 
The one social obligation which he seemed to be self-possessed enough to perform as carefully as ever , was the obligation of being persistently civil and attentive to me . 
What vile object he has in view , I can not still discover ; but , be the design what it may , invariable politeness towards myself , invariable humility towards Laura , and invariable suppression -LRB- at any cost -RRB- of Sir Percival 's clumsy violence , have been the means he has resolutely and impenetrably used to get to his end , ever since he set foot in this house . 
I suspected it , when he first interfered in our favour , on the day when the deed was produced in the library , and I feel certain of it , now . 
I had more than once seen him look at the Count uneasily during dinner-time , and had observed that the Count carefully abstained from looking at him in return . 
This circumstance , coupled with the host 's anxiety for a little quiet talk over the wine and the guest 's obstinate resolution not to sit down again at the table , revived in my memory the request which Sir Percival had vainly addressed to his friend , earlier in the day , to come out of the library and speak to him . 
Whatever the coming subject of discussion between them might be , it was clearly an important subject in Sir Percival 's estimation -- and perhaps -LRB- judging from his evident reluctance to approach it -RRB- , a dangerous subject as well , in the estimation of the Count . 
Sir Percival 's angry commentary on his friend 's desertion of him had not produced the slightest effect . 
The Count obstinately accompanied us to the tea-table -- waited a minute or two in the room -- then went out into the hall and returned with the post-bag in his hands . 
he asked , approaching me , with the bag . 
He gave the bag to the servant , who was then in the room ; sat down at the piano ; and played the air of the lively Neapolitan street-song , `` La mia Carolina , '' twice over . 
His wife who was usually the most deliberate of women in all her movements , made the tea as quickly as I could have made it myself -- finished her own cup in two minutes -- and quietly glided out of the room . 
He opened the dining-room door , and called out angrily to know what `` that infernal noise '' meant . 
if Percival is coming , '' he said , `` harmony and melody are both at an end . 
He stalked out into the verandah , put his hands in his pockets , and resumed the `` recitativo of Moses , '' sotto voce , in the garden . 
I heard Sir Percival call after him , from the dining-room window . 
But he took no notice : he seemed determined not to hear . 
He had detained me in the drawing-room nearly half an hour from the time when his wife left us . 
Sir Percival , and the Count and his wife , were sitting together . 
`` Come , and have a smoke , Fosco , '' said Sir Percival , rising , with another uneasy look at his friend . 
He was looking impatiently at Madame Fosco , who showed no sings of leaving the room with me . 
The Count smiled to himself behind his book . 
Remembering who smoked cigarettes , and who smoked cigars , I inferred , immediately , that the Count had come out first to look and listen , under my window , and that Sir Percival had afterwards joined him . 
This expression of his intentions was necessarily sufficient to inform me that the library was the room in which he proposed that the conversation should take place . 
The one moment of time which was long enough to bring me to that conclusion , was also the moment which showed me a means of baffling his precautions -- or , in other words , of hearing what he and Sir Percival said to each other , without the risk of descending at all into the lower regions of the house . 
His exclamation was followed by the scraping of the garden chairs on the tiled pavement under the verandah -- the welcome sound which told me they were going to sit close at the window as usual . 
I heard Madame Fosco through the open window , yawning ; and saw her shadow pass once more across the white field of the blind . 
Sir Percival merely answered by upbraiding his friend with having unjustifiably slighted his wishes and neglected his interests , all through the day . 
The Count , thereupon , defended himself by declaring that he had been beset by certain troubles and anxieties which had absorbed all his attention , and that the only safe time to come to an explanation , was a time when they could feel certain of being neither interrupted nor overheard . 
`` We are at a serious crisis in our affairs , Percival , '' he said ; `` and if we are to decide on the future at all , we must decide secretly to-night . '' 
Had he followed me to the inn ? 
Did he infer that I must have given my letters to Fanny , when I told him I had none for the post-bag ? 
Even if it was so , how could he have examined the letters , when they had gone straight from my hand to the bosom of the girl 's dress ? 
`` Yes , yes ; bully and bluster as much as you like , '' he said , sulkily ; `` the difficulty about the money is not the only difficulty . 
I knew that he had moved , by his voice . 
`` The rain has come at last , '' I heard him say . 
The Count went back under the verandah -- I heard the chair creak beneath his weight as he sat down in it again . 
`` Well , Percival , '' he said ; `` and , in the case of Lady Glyde 's death , what do you get then ? '' 
I saw her fingers steal round the corner of the blind , and draw it on one side . 
The dim white outline of her face , looking out straight over me , appeared behind the window . 
The rain , which was fast wetting me , dripped over the glass , blurred it , and prevented her from seeing anything . 
I heard her say to herself . 
She dropped the blind -- and I breathed again freely . 
`` It 's very well to say speak , '' replied Sir Percival , in a far more quiet and more polite tone than he had yet adopted ; `` but it 's not so easy to know how to begin . '' 
-- Come , Glyde ! 
The Count had started to his feet and had struck it with his hand , in indignation . 
he cried , passionately , `` do you know me no better than that ? 
His voice faltered over the last words -- faltered , as if he was actually shedding tears ! 
But the Count was too magnanimous to listen to him . 
he said . 
The Count had taken the lamp from the inner part of the room , to see his friend clearly by the light of it . 
he said . 
The Count was on his feet again -- this time in astonishment . 
he exclaimed , eagerly . 
The Count was laughing in his smooth , silent internal way . 
If I opened Limmeridge House as an asylum to Lady Glyde , what security had I against Sir Percival Glyde 's following her here , in a state of violent resentment against mefor harbouring his wife ? 
As for the explanations themselves , I -- Fosco -- I who know Sir Percival much better than Miss Halcombe knows him , affirm to you , on my honour and my word , that he will not come near this house , or attempt to communicate with this house , while his wife is living in it . 
His affairs are embarrassed . 
I promise you he will take his freedom , and go back to the Continent , at the earliest moment when he can get away . 
He despatched a groom , on horseback , for the nearest medical man , Mr. Dawson , of Oak Lodge . 
Sir Percival -LRB- from distress , I presume , at his lady 's affliction , and at Miss Halcombe 's illness -RRB- appeared much confused and unsettled in his mind . 
His lordship testified , on the contrary , a becoming composure and interest . 
He had his straw hat in one hand , and his book in the other ; and he mentioned to Sir Percival , in my hearing , that he would go out again , and study at the lake . 
`` Let us keep the house quiet , '' he said . 
He had the manners of a true nobleman ; he was considerate towards every one . 
Even the young person -LRB- Fanny by name -RRB- who attended on Lady Glyde , was not beneath his notice . 
When she was sent away by Sir Percival , his lordship -LRB- showing me his sweet little birds at the time -RRB- was most kindly anxious to know what had become of her , where she was to go the day she left Blackwater Park , and so on . 
I make no apology for introducing these particulars ; they are brought forward in justice to his lordship , whose character , I have reason to know , is viewed rather harshly in certain quarters . 
Sir Percival , at the same moment , put his head out of the library-door , and addressed his noble friend , with extreme eagerness , in these words : `` Have you found her ? '' 
His lordship 's large face became dimpled all over with placid smiles ; but he made no reply in words . 
At the same time , Sir Percival turned his head , observed that I was approaching the stairs , and looked at me in the most rudely angry manner possible . 
`` Come in here and tell me about it , '' he said , to the Count . 
`` My dear Percival , '' observed his lordship , kindly , `` Mrs. Michelson has duties . 
I expressed my grateful acknowledgments for his lordship 's kind consideration . 
Sir Percival cut them short by calling to his noble friend -LRB- using I regret to say , a profane expression -RRB- to come into the library , and not to keep him waiting there any longer . 
I am ashamed to say that an idle curiosity , on this occasion , got the better of myprinciples , and made me unduly inquisitive about the question which Sir Percival had addressed to his noble friend , at the library door . 
Who was the Count expected to find , in the course of his studious morning rambles at Blackwater Park ? 
I did not suspect the Count of any impropriety -- I knew his moral character too well . 
The only question I asked myself was -- Had he found her ? 
`` He would not be a friend of Sir Percival Glyde 's , sir , if he was not a member of the highest aristocracy -- excepting the English aristocracy , of course . '' 
`` Very well , Mrs. Michelson , call him what you like ; and let us get back to the nurse . 
He does n't support me . 
He says a nurse of my providing would have been a stranger from London also ; and he thinks the woman ought to have a trial , after his wife 's aunt has taken the trouble to fetch her from London . 
Sir Percival seemed to feel the loss of his lordship in various ways , and appeared also , I thought , much depressed and altered by the sickness and sorrow in the house . 
Occasionally , he was so very restless , that I could not help noticing it ; coming and going , and wandering here and there and everywhere in the grounds . 
His inquiries about Miss Halcombe , and about his lady -LRB- whose failing health seemed to cause him sincere anxiety -RRB- , were most attentive . 
I think his heart was much softened . 
Her ladyship , the Countess , who was now the only company for Sir Percival down stairs , rather neglected him , as I considered . 
Or , perhaps , it might have been that he neglected her . 
He said it would be time enough to send for another doctor , if Miss Halcombe showed any signs of a relapse . 
The Count , who was with him when I went in , immediately rose and left us alone together . 
I listened to him , perfectly aghast with astonishment . 
`` Margaret Porcher can roast and boil -- keep her . 
`` The servant you have mentioned is the most unintelligent servant in the house , Sir Percival -- '' `` Keep her , I tell you ; and have a woman in from the village to do the cleaning , and go away again . 
The undeserved slur which he had cast on my management of the household , did not , I am happy to say , prevent me from returning good for evil to the best of my ability , by complying with his request as readily and respectfully as ever . 
But Sir Percival and his lordship declared that they were both willing to put up with inconvenience for the sake of the invalids . 
A memorandum was written for me by his lordship , stating the requisites which the place I was sent to take must be found to possess ; and a note of the pecuniary limit assigned to me , was added by Sir Percival . 
He seemed too much occupied with some other subject to care about the failure of my errand , and his first words informed me that even in the short time of my absence , another remarkable change had taken place in the house . 
When I ventured on asking Sir Percival whether Lady Glyde had any one to attend to her comforts in the absence of the Countess , he replied that she had Margaret Porcher to wait on her ; and he added that a woman from the village had been sent for to do the work down stairs . 
He looked as if he had been purposely waiting there to see us . 
he said to Lady Glyde . 
I asked Sir Percival if he really meant that Miss Halcombe had left Blackwater Park . 
`` I certainly mean it , '' he answered . 
Before he could reply , her ladyship recovered herself a little , and spoke . 
She took him at his word , and I followed her . 
Sir Percival , on his side , instantly turned , and appealed to me also . 
`` Before you went away , '' he said , `` did you , or did you not , tell the nurse that Miss Halcombe looked much stronger and better ? '' 
He addressed her ladyship again , the moment I offered that reply . 
`` Set one of Mrs. Michelson 's opinions fairly against the other , '' he said , `` and try to be reasonable about a perfectly plain matter . 
`` Because your uncle wo n't receive you till he has seen your sister first , '' he replied . 
He left us suddenly . 
His manner all through this strange conversation had been very unlike what it usually was . 
He seemed to be almost as nervous and fluttered , every now and then , as his lady herself . 
I should never have supposed that his health had been so delicate , or his composure so easy to upset . 
Sir Percival was sitting at the table with a decanter of wine before him . 
He raised the glass to his lips , as we went in , and drained it at a draught . 
Seeing that he looked at me angrily when he put it down again , I attempted to make some apology for my accidental presence in the room . 
he broke out , suddenly ; `` there are none -- there is nothing underhand ; nothing kept from you or from any one . '' 
After speaking those strange words , loudly and sternly , he filled himself another glass of wine , and asked Lady Glyde what she wanted of him . 
He said those last words , holding his glass up to the light , and looking at the wine in it , instead of at Lady Glyde . 
Indeed , he never once looked at her throughout the conversation . 
Sir Percival filled another glass from the decanter , so awkwardly that he upset it , and spilt all the wine over the table . 
`` My sight seems to be failing me , '' he muttered to himself , in an odd , muffled voice . 
He slowly set the glass up again , refilled it , and drained it once more at a draught . 
I began to fear , from his look and manner , that the wine was getting into his head . 
said Sir Percival , rudely turning his back on us . 
He started to his feet ; and suddenly walked out into the verandah , through the open glass doors . 
I am very much afraid he is over-excited with wine . '' 
Even his lordship 's serious misunderstanding with Mr. Dawson was entirely attributable to his anxiety on Miss Halcombe 's account . '' 
I related the unhappy circumstances under which Mr. Dawson had withdrawn his attendance -- mentioning them all the more readily , because I disapproved of Sir Percival 's continuing to conceal what had happened -LRB- as he had done in my presence -RRB- from the knowledge of Lady Glyde . 
My horror of him is such , that nothing Sir Percival could say , and no letters my uncle could write , would induce me , if I had only my own feelings to consult , to eat , drink , or sleep under his roof . 
He informed Lady Glyde that he was obliged to go out , but added that he hoped to be back before she left . 
If any unforeseen accident delayed him , I was to accompany her to the station , and to take special care that she was in time for the train . 
Her ladyship looked attentively after him , wherever he went . 
He never once looked at her in return . 
She only spoke when he had done ; and then she stopped him as he approached the door , by holding out her hand . 
His face turned of an awful whiteness all over ; and great beads of perspiration broke out on his bald forehead . 
`` I shall come back , '' he said -- and made for the door , as hastily as if his wife 's farewell words had frightened him out of the room . 
I had never liked Sir Percival -- but the manner in which he left Lady Glyde made me feel ashamed of having eaten his bread and lived in his service . 
I waited for him till the last moment -- and waited in vain . 
At the end of that time , Mrs. Rubelle looked up sideways from her flowers , and said , `` Here is Sir Percival , ma'am , returned from his ride . '' 
I was resolved that the first words spoken in his presence should be words which expressed my intention to leave his service . 
He eyed me with one of his blackest looks , and thrust his hands savagely into the pockets of his riding-coat . 
he said ; `` why , I should like to know ? '' 
he broke out , in his most violent manner . 
He poured out these words fiercely , all in a breath , walking backwards and forwards , and striking about him in the air with his whip . 
Nothing that he said or did shook my opinion of the disgraceful series of falsehoods that he had told , in my presence , the day before , or of the cruel deception by which he had separated Lady Glyde from her sister , and had sent her uselessly to London , when she was half distracted with anxiety on Miss Halcombe 's account . 
I naturally kept these thoughts to myself , and said nothing more to irritate him ; but I was not the less resolved to persist in my purpose . 
he asked , interrupting me without ceremony . 
It was settled that I should give Sir Percival 's solicitor a week 's notice before I left : and that he was to undertake the necessary arrangements for appointing my successor . 
At its conclusion , Sir Percival abruptly turned on his heel , and left me free to join Mrs. Rubelle . 
he asked . 
Ido n't know why you are going , '' he went on . 
He turned away again , before I could say another word , and walked out rapidly into the grounds . 
His manner was as strange as his language . 
I acknowledge he alarmed me . 
The only ill-usage which either he or Mrs. Rubelle had inflicted on Miss Halcombe , consisted , so far as I could see , in the first offence of hiding her away . 
In a quarter of an hour Sir Percival had joined him in the yard , had jumped into the chaise , and , lashing the horse into a gallop , had driven himself away , with his face as pale as ashes in the moonlight . 
I never received any further information , either from himself , or from any one else , of Sir Percival 's proceedings ; and I am not even aware , at this moment , whether he is in England or out of it . 
He and I have not met , since he drove away , like an escaped criminal , from his own house ; and it is my fervent hope and prayer that we may never meet again . 
Torn in her own lifetime from the list of the living , the daughter of Philip Fairlie and the wife of Percival Glyde might still exist for her sister , might still exist for me , but to all the world besides she was dead . 
The unfortunate woman 's last idea in connection with Sir Percival , was the idea of annoying and distressing him , and of elevating herself as she supposed in the estimation of the patients and nurses , by assuming the character of his deceased wife ; the scheme of this personation having evidently occurred to her , after a stolen interview which she had succeeded in obtaining with Lady Glyde , and at which she had observed the extraordinary accidental likeness between the deceased lady and herself . 
He was settled in Paris ; and living there quietly in a small circle of English and French friends . 
His consenting at all to let her visit his patient seemed to afford one proof of this , and his readiness in making admissions which could scarcely have escaped the lips of an accomplice , certainly appeared to furnish another . 
On receiving his inmate again , the proprietor of the Asylum acknowledged that he had observed some curious personal changes in her . 
Such changes , no doubt , were not without precedent in his experience of persons mentally afflicted . 
He allowed for these , and he allowed also for the modification in the form of Anne Catherick 's delusion , which was reflected , no doubt , in her manner and expression . 
But he was still perplexed , at times , by certain differences between his patient before she had escaped , and his patient since she had been brought back . 
He could not say , of course , that she was absolutely altered in height or shape or complexion , or in the colour of her hair and eyes , or in the general form of her face : the change was something that he felt , more than something that he saw . 
The success of the conspiracy had brought with it a clear gain to those two men of thirty thousand pounds -- twenty thousand to one : ten thousand to the other , through his wife . 
You are aware that he had me watched before I left England ; and that he probably knows me by sight , although I do n't know him ? '' 
`` It is not likely , '' I said , `` that I shall be seen in London again so soon , either by Sir Percival himself or by the persons in his employ . 
The foreigner would probably leave the country , before proceedings were commenced ; and Sir Percival 's embarrassments are numerous enough and pressing enough to transfer almost any sum of money he may possess from himself to his creditors . 
`` He has returned to London , '' replied Mr. Kyrle . 
`` At least I heard so from his solicitor , whom I met yesterday . '' 
We know that his departure followed Laura 's , after the lapse of a few hours ; and we may get at the date in that way . 
It is our only sure hold on him . 
I can force him from his position of security , I can drag him and his villany into the face of day , by no other means . 
You heard him tell the Count that he believed his wife knew enough to ruin him ? 
You heard him say that he was a lost man if the secret of Anne Catherick was known ? '' 
I asked first if Sir Percival was at the park ; and , receiving a reply in the negative , inquired next when he had left it . 
Neither of the women could tell me more than that he had gone away in the summer . 
No base speculation on the future relations of Laura and myself , and on the private and personal concessions which I might force from Sir Percival if I once had him at my mercy , ever entered my mind . 
While we were waiting for the reply , I made myself master of all the information Marian could afford on the subject of Sir Percival 's family , and of his early life . 
His father , Sir Felix Glyde , had suffered , from his birth , under a painful and incurable deformity , and had shunned all society from his earliest years . 
His mother was the first of his parents whom he lost . 
His father had died a few years after her , either in 1825 or 1826 . 
Sir Percival had been in England , as a young man , once or twice before that period ; but his acquaintance with the late Mr. Fairlie did not begin till after the time of his father 's death . 
The Count added , that he had already attempted to give a friendly warning to Anne herself , but that she had been too much startled by seeing that he was a stranger , to let him approach and speak to her . 
The Count inquired if Mrs. Clements had sent for medical advice ; and hearing that she had hitherto hesitated to do so , from the fear of making their position publicly known in the village , informed her that he was himself a medical man , and that he would go back with her if she pleased , and see what could be done for Anne . 
Poor Mrs. Clements supposed that he was only shocked to see how ill she was . 
He would not allow her to be awakened ; he was contented with putting questions to Mrs. Clements about her symptoms , with looking at her , and with lightly touching her pulse . 
Sandon was a large enough place to have a grocer 's and druggist 's shop in it ; and thither the Count went , to write his prescription , and to get the medicine made up . 
He brought it back himself : and told Mrs. Clements that the medicine was a powerful stimulant , and that it would certainly give Anne strength to get up and bear the fatigue of a journey to London of only a few hours . 
On the third day she would be well enough to travel ; and he arranged to meet Mrs. Clements at the Blackwater station , and to see them off by the midday train . 
If they did not appear , he would assume that Anne was worse , and would proceed at once to the cottage . 
He came among us as a stranger . 
His father had died , not long before , in foreign parts . 
I remember he was in mourning . 
He put up at the little inn on the river -LRB- they have pulled it down since that time , -RRB- where gentlemen used to go to fish . 
He was n't much noticed when he first came -- it was a common thing enough for gentlemen to travel , from all parts of England , to fish in our river . '' 
`` Did he make his appearance in the village before Anne was born ? '' 
Anne was born in the June month of eighteen hundred and twenty-seven -- and I think he came at the end of April , or the beginning of May . '' 
I 've told him to keep his tongue to himself , and his eyes and his ears open , and to wait a day or two , till he can be quite certain . ' 
Sir Percival , being seemingly surprised and confounded , defended himself in such a guilty way that poor Catherick -LRB- whose quick temper I have told you of already -RRB- fell into a kind of frenzy at his own disgrace , and struck Sir Percival . 
He was no match -LRB- and I am sorry to say it -RRB- for the man who had wronged him -- and he was beaten in the cruelest manner , before the neighbours , who had come to the place on hearing the disturbance , could run in to part them . 
The clergyman of the parish put an advertisement in the paper , begging him to come back , and saying that he should not lose his situation or his friends . 
But Catherick had too much pride and spirit , as some people said -- too much feeling , as I think , sir -- to face his neighbours again , and try to live down the memory of his disgrace . 
`` Did he stay in the neighbourhood ? '' 
`` Not he , sir . 
The place was too hot to hold him . 
He was heard at high words with Mrs. Catherick , the same night when the scandal broke out -- and the next morning he took himself off . '' 
Not the suspicion that he was Anne 's father -- for Welmingham was the place in which that suspicion must inevitably exist . 
`` I suppose you often saw Sir Percival , when he was in your village ? '' 
`` Did you ever observe that Anne was like him ? '' 
`` She was not at all like him , sir . '' 
`` When Sir Percival first arrived in your neighbourhood , '' I said , `` did you hear where he had come from last ? '' 
I noted down Major Donthorne 's name and address , on the chance that he might still be alive , and that it might be useful , at some future time , to apply to him . 
Meanwhile , the impression on my mind was now decidedly adverse to the opinion that Sir Percival was Anne 's father , and decidedly favourable to the conclusion that the secret of his stolen interviews with Mrs. Catherick was entirely unconnected with the disgrace which the woman had inflicted on her husband 's good name . 
She said her mother had got some secret of Sir Percival 's to keep , and had let it out to her , long after I left Hampshire -- and when Sir Percival found she knew it , he shut her up . 
Sir Percival 's guilty distrust would , in that case , infallibly inspire him with the false idea that Anne knew all from her mother , just as it had afterwards fixed in his mind the equally false suspicion that his wife knew all from Anne . 
`` He will not be more than your match , '' she replied , decidedly , `` because he will not be helped in resisting you by the impenetrable wickedness of the Count . '' 
`` I believe he will insist on meeting you single-handed -- just as he insisted , at first , on acting for himself at Blackwater Park . 
His own interests will then be directly threatened -- and he will act , Walter , to terrible purpose , in his own defence . '' 
`` We may deprive him of his weapons , beforehand , '' I said . 
`` Some of the particulars I have heard from Mrs. Clements may yet be turned to account against him ; and other means of strengthening the case may be at our disposal . 
`` I mention it because I am determined to bring Sir Percival Glyde to account for the wickedness he has committed . '' 
If I have a grudge against him , you have a grudge against him too . 
`` Sir Percival has a high position in the world , '' I said ; `` it would be no wonder if you were afraid of him . 
`` I know some things about him -- and I suspect many more . '' 
I do n'tsuspect him of being Anne 's father . '' 
`` There was no thought of the child in your heart or in his , '' I went on , determined to press her back to her last defences . 
`` There was no bond of guilty love between you and him , when you held those stolen meetings -- when your husband found you whispering together under the vestry of the church . '' 
`` Except the news of his death , '' she said , sitting down again , with the mockery of a smile just hovering on her cruel lips , and the furtive light of hatred lurking deep in her steady eyes . 
He had doubtless seen me go in and come out ; and he had hurried away by the first train to make his report at Blackwater Park -- to which place Sir Percival would naturally betake himself -LRB- knowing what he evidently knew of my movements -RRB- in order to be ready on the spot , if I returned to Hampshire . 
Before many days were over , there seemed every likelihood , now , that he and I might meet . 
Mrs. Catherick 's undisguised contempt for Sir Percival plainly extended to his mother as well . 
She had referred , with the bitterest sarcasm , to the great family he had descended from -- `` especially by the mother 's side . '' 
Either his mother 's birth had been low ? 
or his mother 's reputation was damaged by some hidden flaw with which Mrs. Catherick and Sir Percival were both privately acquainted ? 
Remembering the account which Marian had given me of Sir Percival 's father and mother , and of the suspiciously unsocial secluded life they had both led , I now asked myself , whether it might not be possible that his mother had never been married at all . 
My visit to Mrs. Catherick had been reported to him the evening before ; and those two men had been placed on the look-out , near the church , in anticipation of my appearance at Old Welmingham . 
Marian had informed me of Sir Percival 's age , at the time when we had spoken together of his marriage engagement with Laura . 
She had then described him as being forty-five years old . 
Calculating back from this , and making due allowance for the year that had passed since I had gained my information , I found that he must have been born in eighteen hundred and four , and that I might safely start on my search through the register from that date . 
He opened the door of one of the presses -- the press from the side of which the surplices were hanging -- and produced a large volume bound in greasy brown leather . 
said the clerk , shutting up the book again , just after he had opened it , and smacking his hand cheerfully on the cover . 
The register of the marriage of Sir Felix Glyde was in no respect remarkable , except for the narrowness of the space into which it was compressed at the bottom of the page . 
Their reappearance reminded me that Sir Percival had anticipated my visit to Old Welmingham church , as the next result of my interview with Mrs. Catherick -- otherwise , he would never have placed his spies there to wait for me . 
But , in that time , while I was in confinement , Sir Percival might use any means he pleased to embarrass my future proceedings -- perhaps to screen himself from detection altogether -- without the slightest fear of any hindrance on my part . 
If the next few hours did not put me in a position to justify his worst fears , and to hold him helpless at my mercy , I might lose every inch of the ground I had gained , never to recover it again . 
Not a vestige of the entry which recorded the marriage of Sir Felix Glyde and Cecilia Jane Elster , in the register of the church ! 
The idea that he was not Sir Percival Glyde at all , that he had no more claim to the baronetcy and to Blackwater Park than the poorest labourer who worked on the estate , had never once occurred to my mind . 
In the danger and desperation of his position , he would be staggered by no risks , he would recoil at no crime -- he would , literally , hesitate at nothing to save himself . 
The news of my being free on bail drove Sir Percival , as I believe , to his last resources . 
The attempted attack on the road was one of those resources ; and the suppression of all practical proof of his crime , by destroying the page of the register on which the forgery had been committed , was the other , and the surest of the two . 
If I could produce no extract from the original book , to compare with the certified copy at Knowlesbury , I could produce no positive evidence , and could threaten him with no fatal exposure . 
All that was necessary to the attainment of his end was , that he should get into the vestry unperceived , that he should tear out the page in the register , and that he should leave the vestry again as privately as he had entered it . 
On this supposition , it is easy to understand why he waited until nightfall before he made the attempt , and why he took advantage of the clerk 's absence to possess himself of the keys . 
Necessity would oblige him to strike a light to find his way to the right register ; and common caution would suggest his locking the door on the inside in case of intrusion on the part of any inquisitive stranger , or on my part , if I happened to be in the neighbourhood at the time . 
I can not believe that it was any part of his intention to make the destruction of the register appear to be the result of accident , by purposely setting the vestry on fire . 
The bare chance that prompt assistance might arrive , and that the books might , by the remotest possibility , be saved , would have been enough , on a moment 's consideration , to dismiss any idea of this sort from his mind . 
Remembering the quantity of combustible objects in the vestry -- the straw , the papers , the packing-cases , the dry wood , the old worm-eaten presses -- all the probabilities , in my estimation , point to the fire as the result of an accident with his matches or his light . 
His first impulse , under these circumstances , was doubtless to try to extinguish the flames -- and , failing in that , his second impulse -LRB- ignorant as he was of the state of the lock -RRB- had been to attempt to escape by the door which had given him entrance . 
When I had called to him , the flames must have reached across the door leading into the church , on either side of which the presses extended , and close to which the other combustible objects were placed . 
In all probability , the smoke and flame -LRB- confined as they were to the room -RRB- had been too much for him , when he tried to escape by the inner door . 
He must have dropped in his death-swoon -- he must have sunk in the place where he was found -- just as I got on the roof to break the skylight-window . 
He would have been past saving , long past saving , by that time . 
There is no doubt in my mind -- there can be no doubt in the mind of any one -- that he was a dead man before ever we got to the empty cottage , and worked with might and main to tear down the beam . 
As I have related it , so , his body was found . 
He was gone -- and , with him , the chance was gone which had been the one object of all my labours and all my hopes . 
Suppose he had lived -- would that change of circumstances have altered the result ? 
I remembered the furtive hatred in her face , when she said , `` There is no news of Sir Percival that I do n't expect -- except the news of his death . '' 
The information communicated to me , so far as it concerned him , did little more than confirm the conclusions at which I had already arrived . 
He had committed his offence as I had supposed him to have committed it ; and the absence of all reference , on Mrs. Catherick 's part , to the duplicate register at Knowlesbury , strengthened my previous conviction that the existence of the book , and the risk of detection which it implied , must have been necessarily unknown to Sir Percival . 
My new acquaintance had some knowledge of the late Sir Percival 's solicitor ; and he and Mr. Merriman had been discussing the state of the deceased gentleman 's affairs and the succession to the property . 
Sir Percival 's embarrassments were so well known all over the county that his solicitor could only make a virtue of necessity and plainly acknowledge them . 
He had died without leaving a will , and he had no personal property to bequeath , even if he had made one ; the whole fortune which he had derived from his wife having been swallowed up by his creditors . 
The heir to the estate -LRB- Sir Percival having left no issue -RRB- was a son of Sir Felix Glyde 's first cousin -- an officer in command of an East Indiaman . 
I told you , if you remember , that Sir Percival would be too headstrong to take his friend 's advice where you were concerned ; and that there was no danger to be dreaded from the Count till his own interests were threatened , and he was roused into acting for himself ? '' 
The Count offered his advice ; but it was refused . 
Sir Percival would only take counsel of his own violence , his own obstinacy , and his own hatred of you . 
The Count let him have his way ; first privately ascertaining , in case of his own interests being threatened next , where we lived . 
Having made the discovery , he took no advantage of it till the news reached him of Sir Percival 's death -- and then , as I told you , he acted for himself , because he believed you would next proceed against the dead man 's partner in the conspiracy . 
He at once made his arrangements to meet the owner of the Asylum in London , and to take him to the place where his runaway patient was hidden ; believing that the results , whichever way they ended , would be to involve you in interminable legal disputes and difficulties , and to tie your hands for all purposes of offence , so far as he was concerned . 
That was his purpose , on his own confession to me . 
The only consideration which made him hesitate , at the last moment -- '' `` Yes ? '' 
`` He spoke last of you . 
His eyes brightened and hardened , and his manner changed to what I remember it , in past times -- to that mixture of pitiless resolution and mountebank mockery which makes it so impossible to fathom him . 
`` A quarter past five , '' said the Count , looking at his watch . 
Knowing as well as he did , that he was summoning Madame Fosco , to ensure my not leaving the house while he was asleep , I made no reply , and occupied myself in tying up the papers which he had placed in my possession . 
He placed a chair for her , kissed her hand for the second time , withdrew to a sofa , and , in three minutes , was as peacefully and happily asleep as the most virtuous man in existence . 
The bond of friendship which united Percival and myself , was strengthened , on this occasion , by a touching similarity in the pecuniary position , on his side and on mine . 
Large sums of money , due at a certain time , were wanted by Percival -LRB- I say nothing of the modicum equally necessary to myself -RRB- ; and the one source to look to for supplying them was the fortune of his wife , of which not one farthing was at his disposal until her death . 
He had told me himself that he was a lost man , unless his wife was silenced , and unless Anne Catherick was found . 
If he was a lost man , what would become of our pecuniary interests ? 
I had written a note in the morning to Madame Rubelle , telling her to join me , at her husband 's house , on the evening of Friday , the 26th ; with another note to Percival , warning him to show his wife her uncle 's letter of invitation , to assert that Marian had gone on before her , and to despatch her to town , by the mid-day train , on the 26th , also . 
On the morning of the 26th , Percival 's letter reached me , announcing his wife 's arrival by the mid-day train . 
I committed another when Percival had paid the penalty of his own obstinacy and violence , by granting Lady Glyde a second reprieve from the madhouse , and allowing Mr. Hartright a second chance of escaping me . 
`` Why , to tell you the truth , sir , '' he said , `` I had n't been long married at that time ; and my wife 's name , before she changed it for mine , was the same as the lady 's -- meaning the name of Glyde , sir . 
I then read them Sir Percival 's letter of the 25th , announcing his wife 's intended journey from Hampshire to London on the 26th . 
