Of this class of unfortunate beings , was Jeremiah Jernegan . 
He was a clerk in the counting-room of Tremlett & Tuck ; and in addition to the ordinary duties of the office , he was made , through his own gentle and obliging nature , to perform the duty of a butt for the whole establishment . 
His keen sensibilities and lively apprehensions , added to a very weak frame , and forgiving disposition , rendered him a very suitable person for fools and cowards to exercise their talents upon ; and scarce a day was allowed to pass , without his being made to feel the misery of his uncomfortable situation . 
He had a brother , but he was brutal in his temper and dissipated in his habits ; and instead of proving a consolation to him , he was a continual source of mortification and grief Jeremiah was possessed of none of those nameless little graces , that are so worthless in themselves , and yet so powerful in winning the esteem of others ; but , on the contrary , there was an expression in his emaciated face , and a hesitation in his manner , which rendered him almost personally disagreeable , even to them who really esteemed him for his good qualities . 
He had but few relations , and they were all in the humblest walks of life , and were withal extremely poor ; so that whatever his earnings or savings might have been , his generous feelings would not allow him to keep what he knew those who were closely related to him stood in need of . 
He was accordingly not only very poor , but there was every prospect of his always remaining so . 
But even the happiness which springs from contented poverty , was denied to him . 
He was very proud and very ambitious ; but his pride was not of that kind which feeds upon riches , neither was his ambition of that nature which aims at mercantile greatness ; and although he was forced to make the humiliating confession to himself , that he did not possess the qualifications requisite to give him a claim to the world 's notice , yet that did not abate in the least his desire for distinction , or make him more contented with his humble position in society . 
He had not received even the poorest education that the poorest school could afford in his younger days ; but having , by some chance , acquired a knowledge of the alphabet , he had learned just enough of books by employing his leisure hours , and stealing from his body the moments it might justly claim for refreshment and sleep , to devote them to reading , for the benefit of his mind , to make him more sensible of his ignorance than he would have been , if even this slight glimmer of knowledge had been denied him : like some poor wretch , the light of whose dungeon is but just sufficient to reveal to him the narrow bounds of his prison walls . 
Jeremiah never had a friend to whom he could impart his secret griefs , or upon whom he could rely for reciprocal consolation and assistance ; while he saw every body around him paired off with a mate or a companion , he wondered why it was that he had never met with a congenial spirit . 
He was too honorable to flatter , and too proud to solicit . 
As he never frequented places of public amusement , nor wore fine clothes , he was , of course , not a suitable companion for the other clerks in the counting-room of Tremlett & Tuck . 
Jeremiah had become greatly attached to young Tremlett , for the youngster had been in the habit of making frequent visits to the counting-room , where he was an universal favorite . 
Mr. Bates treated him with the most profound respect , and never disputed or denied him any thing , because he was his employer 's pet ; and he gained the good-will of the other clerks , by his good nature , and the smart replies he made to their teasing questions : but Jeremiah loved him because he was an orphan , like himself ; and instead of feeling envious of the boy 's handsome person , and flattering prospects , he exulted in the thought that there was happiness in store for at least one outcast , and that the world was full of gentleness , and beauty , and love , even though they were all denied to him . 
And when it was made known that his favorite was the thief who had stolen Mr. Tuck 's pocket-book , while all the clerks agreed in saying that they always thought he had a thievish look , Jeremiah wiped a tear from his eye , and said , `` Poor boy ! 
`` Why , the fact is , '' said Mr. Bates , `` they do say , that is , I have heard the remark often , that birds of a feather will fly together ; and I should n't be suprised if Jeremiah did feather his nest one of these days . '' 
`` It is very hard , '' said Jeremiah , `` if one can not express sympathy for an unfortunate boy , without being subjected to such cruel suspicions . '' 
replied Jeremiah , `` I wish I were . '' 
This was such an exquisite joke , that every body laughed of course , except Jeremiah , who continued writing at his desk . 
Many more jokes would have been uttered at his expense , but the entrance of Mr. Tremlett caused an immediate silence , and every body caught up a pen , and began to write very fiercely . 
Mr. Tremlett looked very serious ; and after giving some directions to the cash-keeper , he told Jeremiah he wished to see him in private . 
The poor clerk trembled with apprehension , being fearful that he had been guilty of some indiscretion that would cause him to be discharged ; as he followed his employer into his private office , his kness almost sank under him . 
As he was too young to travel alone , and his father 's engagements being such that he could not accompany him , Jeremiah Jernegan was selected , as being the most suitable person in the employment of Tremlett & Tuck , to take charge of the young gentleman , and deliver him at his place of destination ; and it was on this important business that Mr. Tremlett wanted to speak with Jeremiah , when he called him into his private office . 
The next day young Tremlett left his happy home , in company with Jeremiah . 
Now , although Jeremiah was a very suitable person , in one respect , for the charge entrusted to him , yet he was in another quite the opposite , seeing that he had never been but a short distance from home , and that he was totally unacquainted with the ways of the world , as well as the ways of stage-drivers and steam-boat agents . 
`` Yes , Sir , it is , very lovely , '' replied Jeremiah ; `` I was just remarking to my young friend here , that the solemn grandeur of the scene was very impressive . '' 
`` Very , '' replied Jeremiah ; `` It is a pleasant thing to travel ; there is such a constant succession of new and surprising scenes , that one has hardly time to dwell upon his own sad feelings . '' 
there 's a pleasure in that , too , '' said Jeremiah . 
`` You must have been a very great traveller , '' said Jeremiah . 
asked Jeremiah . 
`` Our house has some correspondents in Batavia , '' said Jeremiah ; `` we received a large consignment from them last week . 
`` Oh , it is a very old house , '' replied Jeremiah ; `` our firm have been in correspondence with them for a great many years . 
asked Jeremiah . 
`` Your account does not agree with my impressions at all , '' said Jeremiah ; `` I thought the coffee was very fine . '' 
said the stranger snapping his fingers ; `` it was not worth that ! '' 
`` Palmyra must be a very interesting spot , '' said Jeremiah . 
`` Perhaps its rise wastoo sudden , '' replied Jeremiah ; `` but it was always a matter of wonder to me , how such a city ever sprung up in such a place . '' 
`` Not unlikely , '' replied Jeremiah ; `` human nature has doubtless been the same in all ages ; and I suppose there were speculators even among the Palmyrenes . '' 
The stranger now perceived that his segar had gone out while he had been talking to our travellers , and he left them to get a light . 
said Jeremiah . 
The bell now rang for supper , and our travellers went down into the cabin , where they sat opposite to the communicative stranger ; but as they were all very hungry , Jeremiah asked no farther questions about Palmyra , neither did the great traveller appear at all disposed to communicate any farther intelligence respecting the famous places where his aunts and uncles resided . 
But when they landed the next morning , another agreeable gentleman addressed Jeremiah , and asked him if he had much luggage . 
`` Not much , '' replied Jeremiah , `` but what I have , is of some consequence ; and I am very anxious about it , because the most of it belongs to this young gentleman , who is placed in my charge . '' 
`` Yes , it is rather valuable , '' said Jeremiah ; `` and for the greater safety , I have put my purse into my valise , as I have heard of a good many robberies on board of steam-boats . '' 
`` Those two trunks , '' said Jeremiah pointing to them . 
`` We are going to Willow-mead Academy , '' said Jeremiah , `` in Berkshire Massachusetts . '' 
`` The Reverend Doctor Whippy , '' said Jeremiah . 
When their trunks were taken up to the stage-office , the stranger very kindly offered to take charge of them , upon which Jeremiah thanked him for his politeness , and told him , as they were not much used to travelling , he would be obliged if he would keep them with his own luggage until they got to Willow-mead ; all of which the stranger very obligingly promised to do . 
As it was necessary to pay for the next stage at this house , Jeremiah put his hand into his pocket to take out his purse , and to his great horror discovered it was not there . 
He procured a lantern from the landlord , and searched the coach , without finding it ; and then he remembered that he had put it into his valise for safe-keeping . 
Jeremiah now began to make inquiries for the obliging stranger and was terrified beyond expression , when he was told how that kind gentleman had pretended to have left one of his trunks behind him and had taken a seat in the returning coach , which they met at eight o'clock . 
On inspecting the boot of the stage , it was farther discovered that he had taken with him the boy 's trunk and Jeremiah 's valise . 
Jeremiah begged hard for a little fire , as the night was cold , and their clothes were damp ; but this the host also refused ; and indeed he would not even allow them the light of the miserable tallow candle ; but , having first locked all the doors , and taken a five cent piece and two rusty coppers out of the till he retired to bed , and the left our two travellers in darkness . 
`` Once , '' said Jeremiah , `` I should have considered it a great happiness to have obtained such a shelter as this cheerless bar room affords , on a night like this . 
`` I have no objection , '' said the boy ; and so they knelt down , and Jeremiah prayed thus : `` O , Lord , God ! 
Jeremiah , '' said John ; `` I am not going to pray for that scamp who stole our trunks ! '' 
`` Certainly we must , '' said Jeremiah , `` for we are commanded to pray for our enemies ; and we do not yet positively know whether the gentleman has wronged us or not . '' 
`` I am strongly inclined to believe , myself , '' said Jeremiah `` that he is guilty , but still he maynot be ; and even if he is , we do not know how sorely he may have been tempted , nor how much he may have resisted . '' 
Jeremiah would not hurt the feelings of the youngster by reminding him of his own temptation and fall ; but lifting up his voice again , he continued his prayer . 
And when he had finished , he declared he had never felt more comfortable in his life . 
Jeremiah declared he had never looked upon so fair a scene before , and he thought that the demon of avarice must have a strong hold upon a man 's heart , to cause him to leave the pleasant hills and valleys of New-England , to seek for richer soils in the flat prairies of the West . 
`` And so am I , '' said Jeremiah ; `` this fresh air , and these pleasant sights and sounds , have given me a very keen appetite . '' 
But neither he nor Jeremiah offered to sit down , because there were but two chairs in the room , and they were occupied by the lady and gentleman , who apparently wished to be quite exclusive , and who certainly gave proofs , by their conversation , that they were no common kind of people . 
Jeremiah followed him out , and requested breakfast for himself and companion upon credit ; promising to pay as soon as he could get an answer to a letter he had just sent off by the mail stage . 
`` Do tell me , '' she said , addressing Jeremiah `` if you are all the way from York ? '' 
`` Yes , madam , '' said Jeremiah ; `` we left there the day before yesterday . '' 
`` It is a large city , '' said Jeremiah . 
`` Perfectly well , madam , '' replied Jeremiah . 
`` Is he indeed , '' said Jeremiah ; `` what is the gentleman 's name to whom you allude ? '' 
`` Then I do n't know him , '' said Jeremiah . 
`` But there are several shoe-stores in Chatham-street , '' said Jeremiah . 
`` No , madam , '' replied Jeremiah . 
`` He has got no mother , '' said Jeremiah . 
`` I am afraid not , '' replied Jeremiah . 
Jeremiah met the gentleman , whom he had seen at the breakfast table , smoking a segar on the piazza after his breakfast , and he told the stranger of his mishap , and of the unpleasant situation in which he found himself in consequence `` I see you have got a watch , '' said the stranger ; `` why do n't you pledge it with the landlord , and then you will be under no obligation to him . '' 
`` I would not do that upon any account , '' said Jeremiah , `` because the watch is not my own ; it is one that I borrowed from a fellow clerk . '' 
`` I believe it is , '' replied Jeremiah , showing it to the stranger . 
`` I should be very thankful if you would , '' said Jeremiah : `` and as I am going to take a ramble in the woods with my young companion , you would oblige me by taking care of it until I return , for I should be extremely sorry to injure it . '' 
`` That will be quite desirable , '' said Jeremiah , `` as we are strangers to each other . '' 
Accordingly the gentleman took out his memorandum book and wrote a receipt for the watch , and Jeremiah bade him a good morning , and went to look after his companion who was having fine sport with a large watch-dog in the stable . 
But when they got there , dinner was over , and Jeremiah being too modest to make a bustle , especially as he was living upon credit , they had to wait a long time before they could get any thing to eat ; and then it was given to them very grudgingly . 
The fat good-natured landlady was taking her afternoon nap , and Jeremiah told the tavern keeper that he need be under no apprehension about getting his pay for their board , as he had put abundant security into the hands of Mr. Washington Mortimer , who would be responsible for all charges . 
`` So we are , '' replied Jeremiah . 
exclaimed Jeremiah , a sudden suspicion flashing on his mind ; `` you do n't mean to say that Mr. Mortimer is gone . '' 
inquired Jeremiah . 
groaned Jeremiah ; `` he has taken the gold watch , that I borrowed from one of the clerks ! 
`` Never mind , Jeremiah , '' said John , `` I will give you my watch in the place of it , when I get it from the watch-maker 's . '' 
But Jeremiah was so much overcome at this intelligence and at the recollection of his want of discretion , that he could not eat his dinner , and he left his companion and went away by himself ; and when John saw him again , his eyes were red , as though he had been crying . 
That night the tavern keeper gave them a bed , but the next day he was so cross and surly , that Jeremiah resolved that he would not stop another hour in the tavern , but that he would travel on foot to Willow-mead Academy , and send a conveyance back for his companion . 
But John would not listen to such a proposition ; he insisted on accompanying Jeremiah , and accordingly they set out on their journey toward Willow-mead , which was forty miles distant . 
Jeremiah now bethought himself that they had done a very foolish thing in leaving the tavern , as he had directed Mr. Tremlett to write to him at that place and it was probable that a letter with money would arrive there for him that very evening . 
exclaimed Jeremiah , `` I am afraid you will not be able to bear up under this pelting storm . 
`` And there is one that would weep for you , Jeremiah , '' said the boy : `` for I should cry very hard if any thing should happen to you . 
He was a very saintly personage , altogether too much so for an every day existence , and Jeremiah , with his accustomed ingenuousness , congratulated himself upon falling into the hands of such a pious looking individual ; for Jeremiah never could learn to put a proper value upon external appearances , which is not to be wondered at , for how is it possible to believe , upon theory alone , that a human being should be such a half way admirer of goodness , as to care no more for it than only to wish to seem good . 
But a keener sighted man than Jeremiah might have been deceived by the very smooth exterior of the farmer . 
Upon hearing Jeremiah 's story , friend Hogshart , for that was the farmer 's name , smoothed down his hair and hemmed two or three times with a solemnity that went to the hearts of the benighted travellers . 
`` Although we have no money now , '' said Jeremiah , `` we shall soon have it in our power to pay you well , if you will allow us to sleep here to night . '' 
`` It is a generous discipline , '' replied Jeremiah , `` but I hope it will not prevent your taking pay from us , as we shall never have it in our power to return your kindness . '' 
`` I would not insist , or even expect it , but we are strangers to the road , '' said Jeremiah , `` and the night is so stormy that I fear my young companion would not survive until morning if he were exposed to the weather . '' 
`` I must not insist , '' replied Jeremiah , `` and I would not , for I do not pretend to have any claim upon you , but for the sake of this poor lad ; if you will allow him to sleep by your kitchen fire I will willingly sleep in your barn myself . '' 
`` I understand perfectly , '' replied Jeremiah , `` but I hoped that you might he persuaded to alter your determination . '' 
John had been twitching Jeremiah by the sleeve with manifest impatience to be gone , for some time , and now Jeremiah caught him by the hand , and with a degree of spirit he had never shown before dragged him hastily out into the pelting rain again . 
Jeremiah could not say farewell , without , belying his feelings , and he would n't be rude , so he said nothing , and his young companion was at first so bewildered by coming suddenly into the darkness that he could not speak , and they felt their way along the road , with the rain beating in their faces , for some distance in silence ; at last John said , `` I would n't care about being turned out of doors Jeremiah , if that nice old fellow had n't said farewell to us . '' 
`` We are certainly under obligation to him for civil language , '' said Jeremiah , `` and he doubtless had good reasons for not allowing us to remain in his house , although they may not appear so to us . '' 
`` But he might have given us some supper , '' said the boy , `` and if he had I would have liked his reasons better . 
John ran to the farm house shouting for help with all his might , while Jeremiah ran down the stream to give such aid as he could , but he could do nothing to aid them except encourage the driver who still clung to his seat and bid him hold on as help was at hand . 
The unfortunate passenger was quite exhausted and unable to speak , but they bore him to the house , John supporting his feet and Jeremiah his head . 
Friend Hogshart humanely waived all considerations of discipline and suffered them all to enter his house , where they placed the gentleman upon the floor and began rubbing him with hot flannels , while the farmer unlocked a corner cupboard and took out a small phial of French brandy , a few drops of which he poured down the gentleman 's throat who very soon after began to revive , and when he opened his eyes Jeremiah fell upon his knees , and to the astonishment of every body exclaimed `` merciful heavens ! '' 
`` I see that I am getting old and childish , he said to himself , as a tear trickled down his cheek ; after living all my life for myself alone , here I am unhappy at the absence of a nameless little rogue who has no possible claim upon my sympathy . 
He turned uneasily upon his bed until morning , and when he went down to his office he found a letter from Jeremiah lying upon his desk . 
Jeremiah had given a simple detail of the accidents which had befallen him and requested a remittance to enable him to get to Willowmead with his charge . 
But Mr. Tremlett forgot all his resolutions of the night before , and pretending to be afraid of trusting Jeremiah , but secretly determined to bring his adopted son back to New York , he set off for the place at which the letters was dated with the avowed purpose of seeing him safe at Willow-mead . 
When he arrived at the tavern he learned that the travellers had set out for Willow-mead on foot , some hours before , and being fearful that some accident might happen to them , he hired a carriage of the tavern keeper , and in spite of the earnest entreaties of the feeling landlady , who predicted a storm , he proceeded after them without stopping to take any refreshment . 
But Jeremiah apologised for his young friend 's rudeness , and thanked the quaker with great earnestness for having turned him out of doors , as but for his apparent unkindness he could not have been instrumental in saving the life of his benefactor . 
`` May God forgive me , '' replied Jeremiah , `` but I fear I I entertained some hard feelings towards you although I strove not to . '' 
`` I should like to feel the operation of some spirits too and no mistake , '' said the driver who stood drying himself by the fire , with a cloud of steam rising from his wet clothes , `` for I am as dry as a fish and at the same time as wet as old Nabby Dibletts after she had been ducked in a horse-pond for being a witch ; and as for inward promptings , I tell you how it is neighbor , I have them no ways slow , and grumblings too , although I will acknowledge in confidence to you , that they are not so unusual as they should be to a man of my bringing up , and I swear to gracious if I do n't have something to eat deuced soon , I shall be forced to break through the discipline of society and the cup-board door too . '' 
So saying friend Hogshart , dropped upon his knees and without further ceremony prayed with great solemnity of voice , and in tones long drawn out , which affected Jeremiah to such a degree that he shed tears ; he felt that he should never forgive himself for having thought ill of so good a person . 
`` I tell you how it is neighbor longskirts , '' said the driver whose tongue run very glibly as his clothes were getting dry , `` I never could pray on an empty stomach , and I do n't believe you could either . 
He rapped upon the window and begged piteously to be admitted , and Mr. Tremtett and Jeremiah interceded in his behalf , but the quaker could not be moved from his purpose . 
But Jeremiah was horror-struck at the profane boldness of the quaker , for he had never dabbled in politics and seldom read any thing in the newspapers except the advertisements , and he looked upon government as a kind of divine abstraction , or an embodiment of political power and wisdom which dispensed justice infallibly and potently , and it had never entered his mind that any mere layman had any right even to think or to call in question the doings of this mysterious power ; and as for the officers of the army and navy , he looked upon them with awe , believing them to be the most gallant and perfect heroes in the world , and that without them the whole twenty-four states of the union would immediately be fallen upon and chopped into mince-meat by foreign nations ; and he had never once dreamed that it was possible for a man to get into the navy without he first manifested all the bravery and genius of Admiral Blake and Lord Nelson and Hull and Perry combined , and he was grieved beyond measure to hear that a sneaking poltroon , without even animal courage , or mental energy enough to command an oyster boat , could by political influence alone , be entrusted with the honor of the American flag , and receive pay and rations for disgracing it . 
As for Jeremiah and John , they were both too much engaged with their present delightful feelings to think of anything but their present condition , but they were both unspeakably happy when Mr. Tremlett told them he intended to return with them to New York the very next day , if the weather would permit . 
While they were enjoying themselves at their supper , the farmer sat with a huge volume open before him , which Jeremiah discovered was Fox 's Book of Martyrs bound up with Barclay 's Apology . 
What opportunities for becoming acquainted with Huldah Hogshart , the farmer 's daughter , Jeremiah Jernegan may have enjoyed , has never transpired , but when these two young persons bade each other farewell , it was plain enough to the most careless observer that a tender regard had sprung up between them , which was the more manifest from the great pains which both took to conceal it . 
Jeremiah was in love . 
The doctor is rather a strange man for a physician , but Tom is no fool , let him be what he may ; and I am very certain he would n't employ any but the very best physicians -- '' As the old man sat mumbling to himself , and rocking gently in his chair , another rap was heard at the door and Jeremiah Jernegan made his appearance . 
`` Ah , Jeremiah , is that you ? '' 
said Mr. Tuck , `` come in , come in , Jeremiah , and sit down , I am glad to see you , I want to ask you a question . 
asked Jeremiah , sitting down by the old man 's side . 
You , are stupid Jeremiah ! '' 
`` I am very glad to hear you are not sick , '' replied Jeremiah , `` but really you do not look well . 
`` Yes , yes , it 's the curtains , I 'll have them taken down when the weather gets warmer , '' said Mr. Tuck , `` tell me , Jeremiah , did you ever hear of anybody 's living so long that they did n't care about living any longer ? '' 
`` All good men are willing to die when they are called , '' replied Jeremiah . 
Who was it , Jeremiah , in the Bible , who went up to Heaven without dying at all ? 
`` Neither , '' replied Jeremiah . 
`` If you would die like the Tishbite you must live like him , '' said Jeremiah . 
`` Ah , Jeremiah , you have read the Bible until you are used to it , but I can not think of dying without a shudder , I feel the worms creeping over me . '' 
`` If we thought aright on the subject , '' replied Jeremiah , `` death would never cause us to shudder . 
I do n't like to be questioned about my health , but I will tell you , Jeremiah , because you do n't ask questions , I have got a terrible beating of my heart ; it almost chokes me at times ; but you do n't think it 's dangerous , Jeremiah ? '' 
`` Indeed , I have but little knowledge of diseases , '' replied Jeremiah , `` but I supposed that diseases of the heart were dangerous . '' 
`` Yes , yes , '' replied Mr. Tuck , `` diseases of the heart may be , but mine Jeremiah , is only a beating . 
`` Very true , '' replied Jeremiah , `` perhaps I am wrong . 
but -- never mind , never mind , Jeremiah , I know what you are going to say . 
`` The Susan has arrived from Rio , and coffee has advanced half a cent , '' replied Jeremiah . 
`` Yes sir , '' said Jeremiah , `` an entire cargo of hides . '' 
exclaimed the merchant , `` and coffee advanced half a cent ; that 's bad , Jeremiah , very bad . 
`` Jeremiah folded the check and left the chamber slowly . 
He would gladly have remained to talk to the old gentleman about the great concern of his soul , but he was afraid of defeating his object by too much zeal . 
Once he turned back , hesitated for a moment , and then returned to the counting room . 
His indecision was ever after a source of great grief to him . 
He turned to the title page ; it was the `` Holy Living and Dying , '' and it fell like lead from his hands . 
He opened it , and seeing young Tremlett 's writing , curiosity tempted him to read : it was a little poem : Oft have I joined in mirth and glee , When many a weary heart was sighing , And laughed , because I could not see That all around the dead were lying . 
earth and air , and sea are full Of messengers of death -- He could read no more , and he closed the book . 
He knew that the Bible was full of passages to remind him of death and he would not open it although it , almost seemed to invite him to do so . 
He turned from the book-case and walked to the window to beguile his thoughts by watching the passers by ; but he had not stood there a minute , when two men came along bearing an empty coffin upon their shoulders . 
He turned his head quickly away but not until he had discerned that it was about his own measure . 
To add to his gloomy feelings it was a dull , dark day , and the wind moaned drearily through the blinds of his windows . 
His heart beat violently and he sank down in his chair and tried to compose his thoughts , but in vain . 
When his housekeeper came into the room he detained her in conversation as long as he could , but she seemed in a hurry to leave him . 
At last it was dark , and he ordered his shutters to be closed and a bright light placed upon his table . 
His servant brought in the evening paper . 
He opened it and the first item of intelligence that met his eye , was the death of an old acquaintance from a disease of the heart . 
He threw down the paper and involuntarily applied his hand to his left side . 
His heart throbbed as though it would burst . 
He was alarmed and yet he was afraid to send for a physician , remembering his promise to Doctor Healman . 
Wearied and exhausted at last he fell into a slight doze , but he was soon aroused from it by the hail driving against his windows . 
It had a strange sound to him ; like stones rattling on a coffin when the first shovel full is thrown in to fill up a grave . 
A cold sweat stood upon his forehead , and the blood rushed furiously into his heart . 
He tried to reason himself out of his fears . 
Why had not the same sights and sounds produced such an effect on him before ? 
He had seen and heard them a thousand times . 
He was in the daily habit of passing an undertaker 's shop where coffins stood round like boxes of merchandise , but they had never awakened a gloomy thought in his mind . 
His mother 's picture had been hanging many years in his chamber ; and , although he had often times dropped a tear when gazing upon her mild countenance , it had never before suggested a thought of death , and why should it now ? 
Scarcely conscious of what he was doing he opened his writing desk and took out his will . 
He remembered all the revengeful thoughts that were warring in his mind when he wrote it , and how he anticipated the disappointment and chagrin of his relatives when they should know its terms ; and how he chuckled over the imaginary anger of his brother 's widow and her two sons , and be wondered that he should have been moved by such feelings while engaged in such a solemn duty . 
But he soon grew weary of his will , and he tried to get rid of the load that oppressed him by pacing the chamber floor . 
He drew the phial from the dark corner in which he had placed it , and remembering the injunction of the doctor shook it three times , placed it to his mouth with trembling hands , and swallowed its entire contents . 
MRS. TUCK and her daughter were quietly sipping their first cup of tea when Mr. F. Augustus entered the parlor and after depositing a couple of damp volumes on the mantel piece by the side of his cigar case , seated himself at the tea-table , and nodding significantly to his mother , said to his sister , `` You will not have the pleasure of Mr. Jack Tremlett 's company this evening , Miss. '' `` My son ! '' 
While the old merchant lay indulging himself in these reflections , and his adopted son knelt silently by his bed-side , a tap was heard at the door , and Jeremiah Jernegan walked in . 
`` Sit down , Jeremiah , '' said Mr. Tremlett ; `` we have no secrets that you may not know . 
Well , he was a sincere man ; and I believe Jeremiah , an honest merchant . 
Do you not think he was ? '' 
`` I never knew him to do a dishonest act , '' replied Jeremiah , `` but far be it from me to judge of any man , but above all of the dead . 
said Mr. Tremlett , raising himself ; `` fear what , Jeremiah ? 
that he died without repentance Jeremiah ? '' 
said Jeremiah , `` but , perhaps I had better not tell what were my fears . '' 
`` You must tell , Jeremiah , '' said Young Tremlett , `` your words have excited a curiosity in my father which you must satisfy , or he will indulge in harrassing doubts , let us know what it is you were going to say ? 
`` No , no , '' replied Jeremiah , `` I am glad you are here , for although I came expressely to speak with your father , my errand could not be completed without seeing you . 
`` It matters little to him , now , '' said Jeremiah , `` but as I said before I have fears that I hardly know how to name . '' 
`` I fear , '' said Jeremiah , gazing around him , `` that he died by violence . '' 
said the old man as his frame shook with terror , `` how by violence ? 
`` No , '' said Jeremiah ; `` and that is why I am so fearful of speaking my thoughts . 
`` Yesterday morning , '' said Jeremiah , `` I had occasion to call at Mr. Tuck 's house to get a cheek signed , and I found the old gentleman in his room , very evidently quite ill , although he would not acknowledge it . 
The person whom I met at the door I am very certain was the same man who robbed me of my watch , when we were on our way to Willow-mead together , '' he said , turning to young Tremlett . 
`` It was by that alone which I knew him ; '' said Jeremiah , `` for it was too dark to see his face . '' 
`` G. Washington Mortimer ; '' replied Jeremiah , `` here is the very receipt which he gave me for the watch . 
You had better send the oldest of the two Tucks to me and I will put him on the track to scent it out , but in the mean time Jeremiah , and you , my son , do not whisper a word of this to any one . '' 
`` I freely forgive the man , if it be him who took my watch , '' said Jeremiah , `` but I would be glad to discover him , nevertheless , for you know John , that Hopely , of whom I borrowed it , always pretended that he did not believe our story . '' 
`` That is true indeed , '' replied Jeremiah , `` but perhaps it would be some consolation to him to know that we were not as bad as he thought us , even in his own degradation . '' 
And you , Jeremiah , arrange your accounts as usual , and bring me your checks to sign for the day 's payments . '' 
Jeremiah and John then withdrew and left the old merchant to his contemplations . 
as though it were quite an impossible thing for audacious Death to grapple with a man of wealth : when a lawyer dies , all the courts adjourn with complimentary speeches , and Justice sheathes her terrible left-handed sword and pockets her scales for a whole day , as though lawyers were so exceedingly rare that the loss of one deserved to be wept as a public calamity ; and when a merchant dies , all the ships in the harbour hoist their flags half-mast , out of respect to his memory , as though the business of merchandizing was one of such exceeding honor to humanity that the bare accident of being connected with it conferred such peculiar merit upon a man that his loss called for a public demonstration of grief . 
`` I can not discover , '' said Mr. Tremlett , `` that there was any foundation for Jeremiah 's fears in regard to the sudden death of my partner ; the doctors all agree that it was caused by a disease of his heart , and as there were no signs of violence upon his person , I doubt not such was the fact . 
The man whom he met at the door had probably get into the house by means of false keys , and being alarmed by Jeremiah 's appearance had no time to carry anything off . 
The reader will not be surprised , therefore to find that Mr. Bates still acted as their head book-keeper , and that Jeremiah had been gradually promoted , step by step , and not in a disorderly and hurried manner , until he occupied the responsible post of cashier of the house . 
Jeremiah had gone to board with Mrs. Bates , and soon after he had taken possession of his room , Huldah Hogshart , who had come to New York to learn the art of making ladies dresses with a fashionable mantua-maker in Broadway , at the recommendation of Mr. Tremlett , also took board with Mrs. Bates ; whereupon Jeremiah , resolved upon leaving the house lest people should make scandalous remarks about the young lady and himself , but as he made known his scruples to Mrs. Bates she , after much debate , succeeded in convincing him that he was exceedingly prudish ; and by assuring him that it would hurt the credit of her house if it were known that her husband 's intimate friend had left it , he consented to remain . 
For instance , she had twice accompanied Jeremiah to a presbyterian meeting , and once she had even entered the precincts of a public garden where there was much profane music elaborated by fiddles and cornets-a-piston ; and she had looked with a manifest liking upon a gentleman and lady , decorated with a wicked profusion of spangles and quite an unnecessary economy of clothing , who performed certain mysterious and highly figurative evolutions , the object of which she did not fully comprehend ; but they were called in the bills a ` grand pas de deux . ' 
She moreover showed a decided fondness for decorating her person with very bright colors , but Jeremiah thought she had never looked so lovely as when he first saw her , clad in her blue striped long-short preparing supper over a cheerful hickory fire . 
But she was exceedingly neat in her person , healthy and good-natured , and so fond of Jeremiah that he could not but love her with sincerity and earnestness , although he had never told her so in direct words ; and he was exceedingly puzzled to know how to get about it . 
It was a subject on which he could not well ask advice of any of his acquaintance , and as he never read novels wherein he might have found a great variety of examples of declaring love , he was in great perplexity . 
He had several times been on the point of asking John , who still continued his friend and confidant , to assist him with a suggestion , but shame had kept him silent . 
The clerks had all left the counting room and Jeremiah and John were sitting alone at their desks . 
`` Jeremiah , '' said John , `` it is a long time since you and I have spoken a word in private , but I hope that hereafter we shall not be so much apart . '' 
`` I hope not , '' replied Jeremiah , who perceived that his young friend had something to communicate to him , and so he shut up his cash-book and sat down by his side in the now vacant seat of poor Mr. Tuck . 
`` I suppose Jeremiah , you think that I am very happy ? '' 
`` You know Jeremiah , it has been always talked of as a matter of course that I should marry Julia Tuck ; how it happened I scarcely know ; but we have been on intimate terms a good while , and the young lady loves me better than I wish she did ; I do not speak vainly you know , Jeremiah , because I would it were not so ; but I can not be blind to the truth . 
But , Jeremiah , I tell you sincerely and truly , I never told her that I loved her , neither did I ever speak a word to her about marriage ; and yet she thinks that I intend to marry her , and so do her friends . 
Jeremiah was astonished at this disclosure for he had supposed that John was engaged and sincerely attached to Miss Tuck , as indeed all his friends believed . 
`` What must I do , Jeremiah ? 
`` Really indeed , '' replied Jeremiah , `` I can not advise you ; but if it were my case I think I would do nothing . 
Tell me Jeremiah what I must do to do right , and do not consider what may be politic or prudent . 
`` That indeed , is a question more easily answered , '' replied Jeremiah , `` the right and honest course would be to confess the true state of your feelings to your father , and let the young lady discover them herself from your actions ; for if you were to confess to her she might laugh at you for your presumption . '' 
`` Thank you , thank you , Jeremiah , '' exclaimed the young man in an ecstacy , seizing the hand of his adviser and shaking it heartily , `` I will do it ; it is the only way , and although I may cause some tears to be shed it is the only way to save greater griefs bye and bye . '' 
`` And now , '' said Jeremiah , `` since you have made me your confidant , I will make bold to ask your advice in a similar business , although for very different reasons . 
If , for instance , '' he continued after moving his lips several times without uttering any distinct words , `` if , for instance , now , you were going to tell a young lady that you did love her , how would you do it ? '' 
`` One would think so , '' said Jeremiah , `` but to have the thing positively understood , it strikes me that some particular form of words should be used . '' 
`` But as you meet with no difficulty in expressing yourself on other subjects I do not see why you should on this , '' said John ; `` what can be easier ; you , for instance are a young lady , and I wish to tell you that I love you ; I draw my chair close to yours in this manner , '' suiting the action to the word as he spoke , `` and taking her by the hand , provided she does not draw it away , say , ` My dear Miss Davis , ' or , ` my beautiful Arabella , I love you very dearly and I feel that my existence will be a blank unless you share it with me , can you love and will you love me ? ' 
`` Try it , Jeremiah , '' said John , `` try it . '' 
`` Perhaps I may , '' replied Jeremiah . 
It now being dark , Jeremiah locked up his books in the iron safe , and the two friends , having bidden each other good night , they went to their homes , resolved to profit by each other 's counsel , and we shall see in due time how they proceeded . 
JEREMIAH MAKES A DECLARATION OF LOVE WITHOUT BEING ACCEPTED , AND AFTERWARDS MEETS WITH AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE . 
AS soon as Jeremiah had swallowed his tea he hastened up to his room , and in passing through the hall he saw the shawl and bonnet of Huldah Hogshart lying upon the bannister , and an uncontrolable fit of lovingness coming over him at the sight of them , he took them in his arms and stealthily bore them off to his chamber , and having turned the key inside , he took a pillow from his bed and dressed it up in the habiliments of his mistress , and then drew his chair to the side of the one on which he had placed it , with an air of the most insinuating and seductive nonchalance ; and putting his arm in a very familiar and easy manner round the neck of his imaginary mistress , he crossed his legs and looked round the room very much in the style of a theatrical performer . 
He was quite astonished at his own boldness , and patted the young lady under her imaginary chin , and pressed her waist with a freedom quite unbecoming ; and then he rose from his seat and falling upon one knee declared his love in the most impassioned terms conceivable , and vowed that unless she would accept him as a lover , life would lose all its attractions and the consequences to himself would be too serious to speak of . 
`` My friend , '' said Jeremiah , with the guiltiest look that ever an innocent man wore , `` what friend do you mean , Mrs. Bates ? '' 
And without further ceremony she looked under Jeremiah 's bed and was evidently astonished at finding nobody there . 
`` I shall not allow such liberties in my room , '' said Jeremiah spiritedly ; `` what can you mean , Mrs. Bates ? '' 
`` There has been no person in my room , either male or female , to my knowledge , '' replied Jeremiah calmly , `` except myself . '' 
Please remember that , sir ; '' `` I shall remember it , madam , without any prompting , '' replied Jeremiah , and he was going to add that he was aware that the lady was the possessor of a tongue as well as eyes and ears , but it was not in his nature to say an unkind word to anybody ; so he checked himself , and again asked Mrs. Bates to explain her conduct . 
But as the lady could not consistently make an explanation , and as Jeremiah did not in reality need one , he did not insist upon it , and the lady withdrew herself in great confusion , which she endeavored to hide by working herself into a great passion . 
As soon as she was gone , Jeremiah sat down to consider how he might best free himself from his difficulty ; but as there was no possible way of doing it without making a confession that he could not persuade himself to do , he determined to deliver himself into the hands of Fate , and meet events as they might transpire in the best way he could . 
But a new difficulty soon presented itself , which , strangely enough , he had not anticipated . 
On going below he found the whole house in a state of great excitement about Miss Hogshart 's shawl , and the young lady herself in tears . 
Jeremiah blushed with shame , for he at once made up his mind not to confess his guilt . 
And yet he hesitated upon second thoughts , for he had to acknowledge to himself that it would be a piece of gross dissimulation , a thing that he abhorred . 
Poor Jeremiah ! 
he had never before stood battling between good and evil . 
He was in a sad perplexity , but as he could not see that any harm could come of the business , except to himself , he at last resolved to make a present of just such another hat and shawl to Miss Hogshart , and keep his own folly to himself . 
Let not the reader suppose that we would justify the conduct of Jeremiah : No . 
Jeremiah felt more guilty and shame-faced than he had ever before felt in his life , when Huldah Hogshart thanked him for his goodness , and extolled his generosity in the presence of all the boarders . 
It is true that the shawl she had lost could not be replaced , as Jeremiah discovered ; it was of a much finer quality and a richer pattern than any that could be found in Broadway . 
How so modest a young lady as Miss Hogshart had happened to possess a shawl of such rare beauty , he had too much delicacy , of course , to inquire , but it puzzled him when he thought of it , for he had never seen her wear it before that evening . 
His business was to inform Mr. Tremlett that he had arrested a person who bore a strong resemblanceto Mr. G. Washington Mortimer , the gentleman whom Jeremiah suspected of breaking into Mr. Tuck 's house on the night of the poor man 's death . 
John was very much excited at this intelligence and offered to go immediately in search of Tom Tuck , and with him and Jeremiah , go to the house of detention to satisfy themselves whether the prisoner were the real culprit . 
They found Jeremiah in bed , but he immediately dressed himself and went with them to the prison , although he declared that in his heart he hoped it was not the right man , as he would be extremely sorry to get the poor fellow into trouble . 
The police officer said he had no doubt of it , and told Jeremiah he was a regular wag . 
For which Jeremiah reproved him and told him he made no pretensions that way . 
said Jeremiah , looking upon the sleeper , `` that can not be the person . '' 
`` Surely , he could never sleep so soundly , if he had ever injured anybody , '' replied Jeremiah . 
`` O , no , of course not ; particularly after such a tramp as I gave him yesterday and to day , '' said the police officer , who thought that Jeremiah was giving vent to his waggishness . 
Come , get up , and let 's see the color of your eyes ; '' and without farther ceremony he kicked over the bench and put a sudden stop to the gentleman 's snoring . 
`` No doubt of it , '' replied Jeremiah , `` let us go , I do not like this place . '' 
`` Stop , stop , '' said his companion , `` I should like to inquire after his lady . 
`` Do n't , '' said Jeremiah , `` the man has feelings , and I would no more inflict a wound upon his mind than I would upon his body . 
thought Jeremiah as he walked through the now deserted streets , after he parted with John . 
`` Do n't be insolent , Jacobs , '' replied his accomplished visitor , `` or I 'll leave you without another word . '' 
Jack Tremlett , and that croaking Jeremiah must be got out of the way before to-morrow , for then he will be examined . '' 
`` Will it be prudent to send Jeremiah ? '' 
`` No , no , Jeremiah could not be trusted on so delicate an errand ; he is too honest and unsuspecting . 
The next morning John was up with the sun , and his preparations being completed , he entrusted the letter for Fidelia to the keeping of Jeremiah , from whom he exacted a promise that he would deliver it in person to the young lady herself that very evening , and having taken a tender leave of his father , whose old eyes ran over with tears , for the first time in many a long day , as he shook the young man by the hand and in vain endeavoured to ask God 's blessing upon him , he brushed the falling drops from his own bright eyes and followed by his servant departed upon his journey . 
INVOLVES JEREMIAH IN A VERY STRANGE ADVENTURE , AND CLOSES THE SECOND DIVISION OF THIS HISTORY . 
We will leave them to finish their evening 's performance ; and once more return to Jeremiah with whose adventures we propose to draw the second book of our history to a close . 
Jeremiah had parted with his young friend in the morning with a good deal of regret , for although he was to be absent but a fortnight , yet for that fortnight he would be wholly destitute of a sympathetic friend ; and his sources of pleasure were too restricted , for him not to feel sensibly the removal of even one . 
He did not know the exact nature of the business which called young Tremlett away ; he only knew that it was an urgent call , and thought no more about it , but the letter which he had entrusted to his care puzzled him sorely because it was directed to a young lady ; and as soon as his daily work was done he hurried up into the Bowery to the old sailor 's house to deliver it according to his instructions ; with a slight hope , perhaps , that he should learn something of its contents . 
Jeremiah had never been to the house before , and it was quite dark when he reached there ; he found the old couple seated quietly before the little grate , with their grand daughter seated between them reading from an old book of travels . 
The old couple welcomed Jeremiah very heartily , and the young lady took his hat and reached him a chair ; he en quired if it was Miss Clearman , and , as she blushed and answered ` yes , ' he reached her the letter ; upon which she blushed still deeper , and asked if it was from her father . 
`` I do not know , '' replied Jeremiah , `` but I think not . '' 
For he was not so slow of apprehension as not to guess at the nature of its contents when he perceived how surpassingly beautiful the young lady was . 
`` Open it and see , my little daughter , '' said her grandfather `` that 's the way I always used to do when I got a letter from your grandmother , '' and then the old man took his pipe from his mouth and enjoyed a quiet honest laugh , which was so genuine and unaffected that Jeremiah laughed too , and thought he had never seen such a humorous old gentleman before . 
And while he had been talking to Jeremiah , Fidelia had opened and read her letter . 
`` It was given to me by young Mr. Tremlett , '' replied Jeremiah . 
`` I do not know that he wrote the letter , '' said Jeremiah , `` but if he did , I can assure you that it contains nothing wrong . 
said Jeremiah . 
`` That is very remarkable , '' said Jeremiah . 
`` And I dare say you never repented of your prudence , ' said Jeremiah . 
`` And what is more , '' continued the old sailor after having refreshed himself with two or three long pulls at his pipe , `` I never killed but one man in my life , and that man was a Dutchman . '' 
`` Is it possible , '' said Jeremiah , opening his eyes very wide `` that you killed a Dutchman ? '' 
asked Jeremiah with an alarming look . 
Fidelia and her grandmother now returned , and the remainder of the evening was spent in agreeable conversation ; and Jeremiah had just looked at his watch and was thinking about bidding the good old couple and their lovely grand-daughter good night , when he was startled by the warning voice of Poll , who exclaimed with unusual solemnity ` let us pray . ' 
The history of the drab parrot now had to be related , which gave Jeremiah greater delight than any history he had ever listened to in his life , and his feelings had become so warmly enlisted in favor of every member of the little family that when the old lady invited him to remain and join in their evening service , he dropped into a chair again with a feeling of infinite gratification , and , at the close of the prayer , pronounced an amen in as solemn and impressive a tone as the venerable bird herself , who , at the sound of his voice , peered over the top of the bureau as if looking for the individual who was attempting to disturb her prerogative . 
At last when Jeremiah could not decently prolong his visit another moment , he took his leave equally in love with the parrot and Fidelia , and the old man and his wife . 
Jeremiah came out of the little court and emerged into the Bowery in a state of most delightful agitation , and it being very dark , and the street but imperfectly lighted , he did not discover until he had proceeded some distance , perhaps the length of three or four blocks , that he was followed by a female who was trying to overtake him . 
As soon as he did perceive her , he stopped , and she caught hold of his arm . 
`` My good woman , '' said Jeremiah , `` what do you want of me ? '' 
`` Are you , indeed , '' said Jeremiah , whose heart was touched by such a remarkable confession ; `` what can I do for you ? '' 
`` My poor friend , '' said Jeremiah , `` I am far from being a good man , but if I can be of service to your sister lead me to her . '' 
And the woman clung to his arm and hurried him along until they came to a dark cross-street into which she turned , and , after walking a short distance , she turned into another dark street and soon they came to a modern built brick house with some kind of a tree in front , and having opened the streetdoor with a night key she led him up a pair of stairs through a well furnished hall , and conducted him into a small bedroom containing no other furniture than a bed and rocking chair . 
`` Sit down , '' she said upon which Jeremiah seated himself in the rocking chair and she closed the door and locked it on the outside . 
`` Make yourself easy until morning , '' she said , speaking to him through the key hole , `` my sister is better . '' 
JEREMIAH remained a prisoner all the next day and night in the little room where we left him at the close of our last chapter . 
Nobody came near him , and the only food that he had tasted was the claw of a boiled lobster and a crust of bread , that were thrown into his room over the sky-light of the door . 
He made up his mind to be murdered , but he resolved to defend himself to the best of his powers His only weapon of defence was a pocket-knife , and from want of practice he was not very expert in the use of his hands ; and feeling his own weakness he knew that he could make but a feeble resistance to any one that would be likely to attack him ; he therefore endeavored to compose his mind , and tried to prevail upon himself that he was resigned to whatever death he might be doomed to suffer . 
As he had wronged no man , and was in no manner enlisted in any cause that required a sacrifice , he was entirely at a loss to conceive any reason for his confinement ; and when , at last , he was set at liberty by the same woman who had enticed him to her den , he was so overjoyed to regain his freedom that he forgot to ask for an explanation , but hurried out of the house and ran the entire length of two or three streets before he thought of the necessity of taking the number of the house . 
His absence from his business and his boarding house , caused innumerable speculations among his friends , and very serious inconvenience to Mr. Tremlett , who was compelled to remain until a very late hour at the counting-room , to arrange some business that no one but Jeremiah or himself could attend to , and on his way home at night , he was overtaken by a sudden shower of rain , and a severe cold attended by a fever , was the consequence . 
Jeremiah hastened to the house of his employer , the moment he was set at liberty , and related to him the particulars of his confinement , omitting only the cause of his visit to the Bowery . 
The old gentleman was not a little amazed at so strange a story , and if he had not known that Jeremiah was incapable of deceit , he would have been inclined to doubt the truth of it . 
But believing it entirely , he advised him to make a complaint at the police office and have the woman punished . 
Jeremiah , however , had a great horror of seeing his name in a newspaper , and he had made up his mind to keep the circumstance to himself and seek for no redress for his grievances . 
Miss Hogshart had been terribly alarmed during his absence , but now that he had come back unharmed , she felt herself constrained to be very cold and dignified in her manner towards him , and to treat his protestations of innocence in a very sneering manner , unbecoming in any lady , but especially so in her ; she almost insinuated that Jeremiah was a hypocrite , and not half as good as he pretended to be , which made him feel very wretched ; for it distressed him beyond measure to know that she could , under any circumstances , appear so unamiable . 
But it was nevertheless some consolation to him to know that her ill feelings were excited by her excessive fondness for him , and therefore he forgave her . 
Among the very first friends who called upon him the next morning to inquire about the cause of his absence were the brothers Tuck , who were shocked and amazed when they heard of the outrage that had been committed upon his person , and expressed a world of sympathy for him , but advised him not to make the affair public , lest he should get into the papers , and suffer in his reputation . 
They informed him with many expressions of regret and chagrin that in consequence of his absence , Mr. Washington Mortimer had been allowed to escape , as they depended solely upon his testimony to procure a commitment . 
Jeremiah had no possible sympathy for wrong-doers , and yet it was a relief to him to hear that the poor man had got clear ; it would have been a continual source of unhappiness to him if any human being through his agency had been confined in prison or otherwise harmed . 
Although the brothers , and Mr. Tremlett , and even Miss Hogshart in reality , acquitted Jeremiah of the slightest suspicion of wrong doing ; yet there were two persons who entertained the most coarse and indelicate doubts of his uprightness ; doubts that impressed even these virtuous persons so seriously that they only ventured to give a slight intimation of their existence by whispers and winks , and awful shrugs of their shoulders , which being rendered into language mean , `` Oh , the wickedness of some folks . '' 
Never again did Mr. Bates demur to any of his wife 's propositions , and when she hinted that Jeremiah was a dreadful slyboots , he immediately expressed exactly the same opinion , and said , moreover , that he had never had any other . 
But Jeremiah was wholly unconscious that any one entertained such cruel suspicions against him as Mr. and Mrs. Bates did , and he walked erect in the light of his own innocence , fearing nothing so much as doing wrong to others . 
The first day of his release , he was confined until a late hour to his desk , and before he went to his boarding-house at night he called upon Mr. Tremlett and was alarmed to find the old gentleman in a high fever . 
Poor old Mrs. Swazey , the housekeeper , was doing all she could to hasten his end by smothering him with hot blankets , and deluging his bowels with hot boneset tea . 
Jeremiah saw at a glance that the old gentleman was very ill , and he begged Mrs. Swazey to desist from giving him any more of her remedies until he called in a physician . 
But the old lady looked upon his interference with high disdain . 
Jeremiah was too seriously impressed with the necessity of immediate medical assistance to be influenced by Mrs. Swazey 's persuasions and he went directly in search of a doctor . 
With his accustomed ingenuousness , Jeremiah proceeded directly to the house of doctor Smoothcoat when he went in pursuit of a physician , for he knew that that personage was celebrated for his high charges , and he thought that no physician could have the conscience to value his services at a higher rate than the rest of the faculty unless he were conscious that they were worth more to the patient ; and as there were many other simple-minded people besides Jeremiah , Doctor Smoothcoat had a good many rich patients who enabled him , by their contributions , to live in great magnificence , and occasionally to refresh himself by a visit to Europe , which brought him more patients than even his high charges , for an European reputation is a great help to one 's progress in the New World . 
Jeremiah 's heart sank within him when he reached the doctor 's house , and was informed that the great man was out on a professional visit ; he waited a long time expecting him to return , and at last came away without seeing him , but left a note on his office table requesting him to call at Mr. Tremlett 's house . 
asked Jeremiah . 
`` But I left one upon your office table , '' said Jeremiah . 
exclaimed Jeremiah with unusual warmth , `` Wax ! 
Jeremiah really blamed himself for his awful indiscretion and want of breeding ; and , in truth , felt like a criminal . 
It was in consequence of his want of thought , or ignorance of what was due to a great man , that his good old employer had lain many hours watching with painful anxiety for a physician . 
It was a long time before Doctor Smoothcoat was ready to leave , for he stopped to dress himself with as much nicety as though it had been noon instead of midnight ; and when at last he took his cane in his hand and buttoned up his coat to go , Jeremiah in the excitement of his feelings , exclaimed , `` Wax ! '' 
The night was cold and they walked very brisky , and Jeremiah kept all the time a few steps in advance , trying to seduce the doctor into a trot , but without effect . 
Jeremiah was dreadfully alarmed , and never left the old gentleman 's bed-side until morning , but just before daylight he fell into a slumber from which he soon roused himself and frightened the housekeeper , who had gone to sleep in the adjoining room , by crying out in a loud voice , `` wax ! '' 
So much was his mind occupied by the unfortunate blunder he had committed that the thought of it haunted him in his sleep . 
Jeremiah was obliged to leave him , but his place was supplied by Mrs. Tuck who offered her services with many expressions of kindness and good will that were peculiarly grateful to the sick man 's ears , and acceptable to Mrs. Swazey , who was grown too old and infirm to bear much fatigue . 
Jeremiah wrote immediately to young Tremlett , informing him of the old gentleman 's danger , and urging his return . 
But the next day his symptoms were more favorable , and gave hopes of his recovery . 
Mrs. Swazey was so much elated that she insisted on his eating a bowl of chicken soup to give him strength . 
Jeremiah was in an agony of fear , such as he had never felt before ; he could endure his own disappointments and sufferings , but the troubles of those whom he loved touched him deeply . 
If ever a mortal 's lips gave utterance to a sincere prayer , then did Jeremiah 's when he nightly poured forth his soul 's desire to the Most High that the life of the old man might be spared until his son 's return . 
This news very nearly deprived Jeremiah of his reason ; the cautious manner in which the letter was written , filled him with the saddest apprehensions . 
He called immediately upon the brothers Tuck with the letter , and it put them in a great excitement ; Fred had no sooner overlooked the contents of it than he caught up his hat and ran home to comfort his sister with the intelligence . 
Jeremiah sat by the bed-side of the dying man , and Mrs. Swazey walked the floor wringing her hands but giving no audible expression to her grief ; his eyes remained closed so long , and his features grew so rigid and pale that they thought he was dead . 
But his pulse still beat , although so weak and uncertain , that every throb seemed as though it must be the last ; and after lying more than an hour without giving any other signs of life , he suddenly opened his eyes and attempted to speak , but his parched lips could not utter a word . 
Jeremiah wet them with a sponge and pressed a tea-spoonful of toast water into his mouth , when he looked up with a grateful smile and said , in a low weak voice , `` I have seen him , he will not come . '' 
said Jeremiah , `` John ? '' 
`` Hush , hush , '' said Jeremiah in a low voice , he is dead ! 
Let us go with him into the presence of the Lamb . '' 
`` He is dead to us , '' said Jeremiah , `` but the memory of his good acts will live while any of those live who knew him . '' 
where is Jeremiah ? 
He had Jeremiah and Fidelia in his thoughts , and he would not have them think that he had died forgetful of them . 
He found Mrs. Swazey and Jeremiah sitting in the back parlor , and they both caught hold of his hands together , but neither could speak a word . 
Did n't he , Jeremiah ? 
O , if he is n't happy I do n't know who is . 
It will be hard for us if he is n't . 
Here the old lady indulged in a fresh flood of tears , when Jeremiah to save his young friend from a fresh infliction of her eloquent grief , took a candle and motioned to him to follow him . 
They went up stairs into the old gentleman 's room which had not been disturbed since his death , and Jeremiah proposed that they should strive for consolation and support in prayer , and he then knelt down and prayed in a low solemn voice ; and his words calmed their feelings , so that at the end they were enabled to speak together placidly and without tears . 
John requested Jeremiah to remain in the house that night , but begged to be left alone in his father 's chamber , that he might indulge , undisturbed , in the feelings which a sight of his apparel and the furniture of his room awakened . 
They embraced each other , and Jeremiah withdrew . 
John looked around the room , but he could see nothing distinctly ; his eyes were blinded with tears and he threw himself upon the bed where he lay a long while , until he was disturbed by a gentle tap at the door . 
`` Thank my dear God , for this , '' said the old lady , as she sat down her chamber lamp , and threw her arms around him and kissed him , `` precious heart , I dream ' t every night I seen you as plain as I do now ; but do n't stay in this room , my child ; there is your own chamber prepared for you . 
I shall sleep happy this night , '' and then the old lady kissed him once more , and bade him good night . 
He threw himself upon the bed again where he lay until past midnight , his mind dwelling upon the past scenes of his life , and sometimes conjuring up scenes of the future ; the house was still as a tomb , the candle burned low in its socket and after flickering awhile , seemingly struggling to retain its hold upon the exhausted wick , at last went out and left him in complete darkness . 
Thus he thought his good old father had died . 
The thought rather tranquilized than disturbed his mind , for it suggested no image of pain or violence , and he might have fallen asleep , had not this quiet thought called up in his recollection the peaceful happy look of his father 's face as he had dreamed of seeing it while he lay sick in Charleston . 
He now remembered how distinct the appearance had been ; the impression it had made upon his mind ; and the certainty of its being a real apparition and not a fantasy of the brain , for the event which he felt it foretold , had happened exactly at the time when the shade of his father first appeared to him . 
He had forgotten these things until this moment ; why , he could not conceive ; for they had made a deep impression upon his mind , and his blood chilled as he thought of them . 
He wished , and yet he dreaded to see his father again . 
He was not superstitious ; he had never been troubled by idle fears ; but the thought of being visited by a disembodied spirit , even though it was the spirit of one whom he had loved , and who could only come to him from motives of peace and good will , terrified him , and his heart beat quick , and the sweat started upon his forehead , as the probability of the same apparition again presenting itself occurred to him . 
All the stories that he had ever read or heard of spirits , rushed through his mind , and all the arguments that he had ever heard made use of in favor of spectral appearances came up fresh in his memory . 
And , notwithstanding that he had never been at a loss for a refutation , he could think of nothing now to urge against their speciousness . 
He would have called to Jeremiah who slept in the next room , but a strange feeling of awe had taken possession of him , the very darkness seemed like palpable fetters upon him , he could neither move nor speak ; or he felt that he could not , at least ; and yet he knew of no reason why he should not . 
Of one thing he was certain . 
He was wide awake , in the full possession of his faculties , and entirely free from fever . 
Yes , it might have been a hallucination before , but now , come what might , he could not be deceived . 
Hardly had this thought filled his mind , when his father again stood by his side . 
He saw him as plainly as he had ever seen him when alive ; there was no glare of light , nothing strange , nothing to affright him ; there he stood and gazed upon him with a fixed , calm , and happy look . 
Although the apprehension of seeing the venerable shade again had filled him with terror , now that he beheld it , he experienced no fear , but rather a holy , calm delight . 
He knew it was love , that called him there , love that survives death . 
He did not speak aloud , but he seemed to commune with the spirit , and he knew that his own thoughts were understood . 
A strange feeling of numbness suddenly came over him , he lost all consciousness of thought or feeling ; the apparition was gone ; he opened his eyes and it was light . 
The sun was streaming into his window , the tread of feet was heard on the pavement , and the distant rumble of carriage wheels mingled with the shrill voices of perambulating merchandizers crying their wares , filled his ears . 
The old familiar sights and sounds around him , assured him that he still belonged to the eating , bargaining and working world . 
Presently Jeremiah opened his door . 
said Jeremiah . 
`` I am already dressed , because I have not been undressed , '' replied he , `` O , Jeremiah , I have seen -- '' He checked himself suddenly , and changed his subject . 
He was afraid to say what he had seen . 
And it was a strange thing , but he thought after all that he might have been in a dream . 
Jeremiah now informed John that the business of the house had been entirely suspended , waiting for his return , and that it was necessary to take immediate steps for the settlement of the estate , as many of the holders of the obligations of the house were impatient for their money . 
`` The will , '' said John , `` where is the will , Jeremiah ? '' 
But Jeremiah had not seen it . 
`` There is something in that '' thought John , so he acquiesed in the division of the profits , `` but , '' he said , `` I should be glad to include Jeremiah in the partnership , even though I had to allow him a portion of my own profits . '' 
Jernegan is a good clerk enough , but , I would n't have such a fellow for a partner . '' 
He had heard nothing from her , save only that Jeremiah had passed her in the street but a few days after his arrival , since he had written to her ; and it was with an unquiet and doubtful feeling that he rapped one evening , just after dusk , at the door of the yellow cottage in the Bowery . 
Her grandmother met him at the door , and she and the old sailor gave him a most hearty and cordial greeting , while they expressed their sympathy for the loss of his father in sincere and unaffected terms . 
-- The next day , however , he wrote to Fidelia a detailed account of the nature of his intimacy with Julia , the reasons of his journey to Charleston and the particulars of his illness and marriage , and sent it to her by the hands of Jeremiah , and we shall learn in good time what effect it had upon that delicately minded and beautiful young lady . 
Hitherto Jeremiah had only guessed at the nature of John 's feelings towards Fidelia , but now the young man made a confidant of his old friend , and told him how ardently he loved her , and of the fears he entertained that his suit would not be acceptable to her on account of his marriage with Julia Tuck ; and Jeremiah being extremely simple minded and affectionate , and forming all his ideas of a woman 's temper from what he had seen of it in Huldah Hogshart , conceiving in consequence that the supremest happiness of all young and beautiful ladies consisted in making their admirers as unhappy as they possibly could render them , was forced to confess that he feared John 's apprehensions were not without good and substantial foundations . 
But he encouraged him with such philosophical reflections as suggested themselves to his mind ; and ventured to make a confession of his own experience in verification of Shakespeare 's immortal line . 
It appeared that Jeremiah 's love had been stretched to its utmost tension , and that it had once or twice been very near snapping asunder , and if it had done so , it could not , of course , ever have been fastened together again in this world ; for Love is no sooner broken than the fragments immediately turn to hate ; and therefore , lovers should guard with great care , and not practice upon the strength of the cord that binds them together , lest its tenacity should be overtaxed , and they sundered forever . 
Jeremiah 's chief trouble arose from the excessive fondness of Miss Hogshart for worldly things , and the very slight regard that she entertained for some of his old-fashioned and ridiculous notions . 
However he flattered himself , that for his sake she would alter when they got married , and she had not the slightest doubt that she could cure him of all his inconvenient whims when she once got him entirely under her control . 
As the term of Miss Hogshart 's apprenticeship was nearly at an end , and she would be compelled to return to her father 's house when it arrived , there to practice the sublime art that she had been acquiring a knowledge of , Jeremiah 's thoughts begun to dwell upon marriage . 
It is true he had saved nothing from his yearly salary , and that he could expect nothing in the shape of property with his wife , friend Hogshart having intimated to him that he considered the personal charms with which she was abundantly endowed , were an ample dower , forgetting possibly that personal charms were as transient and fleeting as even personal property , and that they should always accompany each other in a bride , so that when one should chance to spread its wings the other might be left to atone for its loss ; but then he was in a good situation , with a liberal salary and a probability of his retaining it as long as he might wish to do so . 
There could be nothing imprudent in taking upon himself the responsibility of so prudent and industrious a wife as he doubted not Huldah Hogshart would prove . 
Jeremiah felt very happy to hear his own wishes so kindly responded to by his friend and employer , and resolved that they should be fulfilled with no more delay than what delicacy and prudence might require . 
He was obliged to acknowledge to himself that he did not experience that strange , wild , delicious tumult of pleasureable feelings now when the consummation of his courtship seemed so near at hand , that he did when he first thought of such a thing in the earlier days of his acquaintance with Miss Hogshart . 
But he looked upon this as a thing of course , remembering the old saying , that familiarity breeds contempt , and that the fiercest fires soonest burn out . 
But he wished , notwithstanding , that he could know how others had felt in his situation ; whether they had , like him , experienced any diminution of desire , as the period of gratification drew near . 
He had no friend , however , whom he dared to consult on so delicate an occasion , unless it were Mr. Bates , and he did not consider that gentleman 's opinions as entitled to serious consideration upon such a subject . 
-- JEREMIAH IS DETECTED IN A VERY BASE ACT . 
But it is not every ship that sails on a fair day that arrives safely in port ; and we have known more than one to set sail in a storm and arrive at her haven in sunshiney weather . 
Jeremiah at first held on to the cash-book , but a circumstance , which our candor as an impartial historian will not allow us to keep from the reader , caused him to be removed from that important station , and the domestic correspondence was placed in his charge . 
Jeremiah 's curiosity was so strongly excited by this strange looking missive , that he was tempted to take it up , and endeavor , by holding it up to the light and peeping in between the folds , to discover who it was from , and while he was engaged in this very wicked and disreputable act , Mr. T. Jefferson Tuck came in . 
Jeremiah blushed at being caught in such an act , and hastily threw the letter on John 's desk and was about to withdraw to hide his confusion , when Mr. Tuck called him back . 
`` I never did such a thing , '' said Jeremiah , while a blush of shame suffused his pale cheek . 
`` I frankly confess that it was wrong , and that I am very sorry for it ; it was thoughtlessly done , but it was not your letter , and I will take the consequences from Mr. Tremlett , who alone has any right to speak to me about it ; the letter was for him -- '' said Jeremiah . 
Jeremiah did as he was ordered , and had the pleasure of being sneered at and hissed by the other clerks in the outer office , who were not only shocked at his want of moral rectitude but absolutely and thoroughly disgusted at his want of courage two qualities so peculiar to the whole human race , and particularly to clerks in counting rooms , that they well might be indignant ; but they did , nevertheless , out of pure good nature and kindly regard , one and all advise him to go in and give Mr. Tuck a flogging and then resign his situation . 
As for Mr. Bates , it made him really sick to see such a craven spirit as Jeremiah manifested , and he felt in a hurry to get home to tell his wife about it . 
Jeremiah did not exactly enjoy the thing , although he said nothing to the contrary , but he bit his lip until the blood trickled down upon his shirt-bosom . 
He had resolved not to open his mouth until he saw John , and it was a great effort not to do so . 
The financier felt extremely pleasant at having had so good an opportunity to show the clerks , and Jeremiah in particular , what kind of materials he was composed of , that they might know what their fate would be if either of them should ever presume to cross his inclinations . 
He took up the letter that had excited Jeremiah 's curiosity so strongly , and tried to decipher the motto on the seal , but he could only make out one word `` libertas '' and something like `` cara '' or `` caria , '' or both ; the crest was a bunch of feathers , and some other device peculiarly democratic which he thought too lightly of to inspect closely . 
It was evidently not a business letter and there was something about it strangely stimulating to his curiosity . 
It was an art that required great practice to enable one to reach perfection , and by long practice he had become very expert . 
The financier told him in part what had occurred between Jeremiah and himself , and added that either he or Jeremiah must quit the concern . 
And he said this in so firm and positive a manner , that Tom was confounded , and fearing to persist lest his partner should carry his threat into execution , he at last compromised , after some sharp words , by agreeing that Jeremiah should take the sole charge of the domestic correspondence of the firm , and that he would himself , to save the expense of another clerk , assume the duties of cash-keeper . 
But this was , in fact , all he had aimed at in the first place ; like the majority of smart fellows from the days of the somewhat noted treasurer of the twelve , down to the present time , he aimed at the possession of the bag , and he obtained it . 
But he did not , therefore , forgive Jeremiah for the offence he had committed , because he had himself gained his point , and he concentrated his wrath and kept it close , so that when an opportunity should occur for pouring it out , it might descend with greater bitterness and force . 
His brother was full as hostile to Jeremiah although for different reasons ; he hated him because he never read novels , because he had no spirit , because he never smoked , and he despised him for his ugly face , his low connexions , his want of taste , and because he had no appreciation of the beautiful , and knew nothing about sthetics , not so much as the meaning of the word . 
That a person of his superior taste and critical acumen , should have a thorough and hearty contempt for such a low-minded being as Jeremiah was not only perfectly natural , but almost unavoidable . 
The first letter that Jeremiah wrote was criticized in a very severe manner by the Junior partner , he discovered several t 's that were not crossed and more than one ithat was destitute of its most essential feature , a dot , besides a redundant preposition ; but the greatest error of all , one that he swore he never would forgive to his dying day was the omission of an sin the last name of the firm , for Jeremiah signed p. p. -LRB- per procuration -RRB- and he could not convince the offended gentleman that he had not omitted the letter on purpose . 
If he could have spoken out , Jeremiah would have been his confidant . 
But he could not . 
He felt that a spell was upon him . 
Jeremiah was not unmindful of a change in the aspect of his friend , but he attributed it to other causes than the right one ; he knew that John had causes enough for sadness , and , though he was himself of a hopeful temper , as all good and sincere people are , he never lacked a reason for a downcast look , and he did not marvel greatly at the melancholy of others . 
Miss Hogshart 's time was up , and in a few days she was to return to Berkshire county with her father , that exemplary friend having come down to yearly meeting with his eldest son , and Jeremiah had ventured to talk of marriage . 
It was a tremendous subject , and when he spoke to the young lady in rather plain and direct terms , he thought he had accomplished a great feat ; his heart beat terribly at first , and his tongue stuck to the roof of his mouth ; his knees trembled , but fortunately for him , they were sitting on one of the benches on the Battery , and his trepidation was not discovered by her . 
But when he found that she listened to him , not only without laughing at him , but actually with fondness and apparent pleasure , and that she seconded all his propositions with great good nature , and allowed him to put his arm around her waist without flinching or making any ado about it , a desperate and tumultous energy suddenly inflamed him , and before he had time for a second thought , he clasped his arms around her neck and ravished her lips of at least a dozen warm delicious kisses , ere she could exclaim , `` What is thee doing , Jeremiah ? 
`` But the deed was done ; and instead of apologising for his rudeness , he was half determined to repeat his offence . 
In truth we are not certain that he did not before he escorted her home . 
A new relationship rom this moment sprung up between them . 
He no longer had any doubts of his love for her , and as she sat in the moonlight with a little bit of her dove-colored slipper peeping out from beneath her spotted muslin , he thought her the most bewitching object that the moon had ever shone upon ; he could have fallen at her feet and kissed them , so full of love was his soul . 
And she was to be his forever ! 
Happy , happy , Jeremiah ! 
But Time travelled on , wholly regardless of them and all the other innocent hearts that were unfolding themselves , and revelling in the rays of that bright moon which was fast sinking behind the blue hills of New Jersey , and Jeremiah , who would not have been guilty of an indecorum under the influence of fifty moons , proposed returning home ; and they arrived there in good season , although Mr. Bates was just in the act of blowing out the hall lamp as they entered the door . 
The hall being dark , a playful little scene , mostly pantomimic , was performed by the two lovers which ended in Jeremiah 's catching Miss Hogshart 's pocket handkerchief and bearing it off in triumph to his room , where he placed it beneath his pillow and was visited by pleasant dreams while under its potent influence . 
Jeremiah arose the next morning a new man , neither better nor worse , perhaps , than he had been , but still a different being . 
He felt himself capable of greater things ; a new life had been infused into his veins ; the earth and its inhabitants had a new look ; there was a broad bland smile upon the face of nature that he had never seen before . 
He called upon Huldah 's father with a bold assurance that surprised nobody so much as himself , and demanded of that smooth , yet formidable personage , his daughter 's hand . 
Considering that Jeremiah had never worn a drab coat , and that he did not esteem it essential to salvation to say thouwhen the rest of the world said you , this was no small proof of courage ; for friend Hogshart was not a man to encourage presumption , even when habited in his farmer 's suit of linsey-woolsey , but attired as he was now , in his yearly meeting coat and breeches , his fine portly figure set off to the best advantage , and his authoritative , yet broad and healthful countenance , shadowed by his immense broad brim beaver , to make such a demand of him with tolerable composure , required a set of nerves equal to great undertakings . 
But Jeremiah approached him with a stout heart notwithstanding , and we have no doubt felt a glow of pride in contemplating such a fine looking old fellow as his future father-in-law . 
He condescended in the most gracious manner to encourage Jeremiah 's addresses , but declined giving a direct assent to his wishes before he had consulted his wife , `` Thee shall have my consent , Jeremiah , '' said the worthy old soul , `` provided my wife do n't say nay ; we must be consistent , thee knows , in all things , and it is but right to consult her , because I require her to consult me in all that she undertakes . 
Although Jeremiah was dreadfully shocked by the old gentleman 's figure of speech , and deprecated the idea of their being any necessity for such a change as it implied , he made no objection to the proposal . 
He left his future father-in-law with a light and happy heart , and feeling as proud as his meek and gentle spirit would allow him to do . 
It was a whole week before her departure , and he was determined , in his own phrase , to redeem the time , by which he meant , no doubt , taking moonlight walks upon the Battery ; for so pleasantly had the last evening 's enjoyments impressed themselves upon his memory , he almost wished that life was but one long moonlight night and that its chief employment was sitting under the shade of green trees by the side of Huldah Hogshart . 
Why should he not ? 
His hardest duties now appeared but mere pastime to him , and his deeds of kindness and charity , heretofore his chief pleasure , were now performed with a new delight ; even Tom Tuck appeared like a gentleman in his eyes , and F. Augustus almost a man . 
When the police officer arrived , who , of all other men , should he prove , but the very individual that had arrested Mr. Jacobs before on the complaint of Jeremiah . 
The new prisoner was Jeremiah Jernegan . 
WILL EXPLAIN THE CAUSE OF JEREMIAH 'S CONFINEMENT , AND CONTAIN A REMARKABLE CONFESSION BY MR. JACOBS . 
As the time was so near at hand when Miss Hogshart was to leave for Berkshire , Jeremiah had asked for a few days leave of absence from the counting room , that he might be able to spend more time in her society , and also to show her more of those little attentions , which are so pleasant to give and receive , than he had before done . 
In conformity with his resolution to `` redeem the time , '' he had invited her to another walk on the Battery ; and to that pleasant spot they had betaken themselves ; and beneath the green boughs of a huge sycamore , through whose motionless leaves the stars were shining like golden fruit upon the wide spread branches , they sat down and re-enacted some of those thrilling and never forgotten passages which are common in the lives of almost all lovers , but which had been exceedingly rare in the lives of Jeremiah and Miss Hogshart . 
They sat as long as prudence would allow , and just before they were to return , Jeremiah took a little Bible from his coat pocket , and opening it , somewhere in the middle of the old Testament , held it upon his knee , while he and Huldah clasped their hands across it , and repeated together the vow of the Moabitess . 
Although the stars glittered brightly through the trees and besprinkled the turf around them with faint rays of light , yet there was not enough to enable them to read the small print of Jeremiah 's pocket bible , but he had the words by heart , and she repeated them after him . 
Never were words repeated with a more devout feeling than were these by Jeremiah , and at the end , as if not satisfied with their solemn meaning , to make them still more binding he put his arms around her neck , and sealed his vow with an earnest and hearty kiss upon her lips . 
We do not wish that they could have seen the unfortunate Huldah , when a few minutes after the ladies had retired with their husbands , she came home with Jeremiah , and finding no light in the parlour thought that Mrs. Bates had gone to bed , and so bounded lightly up to her own room , where as she burst open the door she uttered a terrible scream and fell senseless upon the floor , because we would not that anybody should have witnessed her melancholy condition , and therefore we shall not describe more particularly what took place , excepting to state that Jeremiah heard the scream and hastened up stairs when the dreadful truth was told him , and he was so much overcome that he sat all night in his chamber unable to speak or even to pray . 
The next morning was Sunday , but Mr. Bates thought that the strange affair would be so gratifying to Tom Tuck , inasmuch as Jeremiah was a party concerned , that he hastened off before breakfast and related all the circumstances of the case to that gentleman . 
Grandemaison , made his appearance at Mrs. Bates ' door , and demanded admittance to Jeremiah 's room , which was not denied him , of course . 
Jeremiah was still in bed , for he had not closed his eyes during the night , but he got up and told the officer to satisfy himself . 
The first place they examined was the clothes-press , which was found to contain nothing but old coats and pantaloons , and a bundle of religious tracts ; the officer was about to close the door when Monsieur Grandemaison discovered a drawer which had not been opened , and requested Jeremiah to unlock it . 
`` Nothing , '' replied Jeremiah . 
Grandemaison , as he sprang two or three feet from the floor , `` Nossing . 
`` That looks bad , my man , '' said the officer , as he turned to Jeremiah , whose face was redder than any scarlet . 
Monsieur could swear to it ; Madame could swear to it , and the importer from whom he purchased it could swear to it . 
They examined still further but found only an old bonnet which Monsieur could not identify as his wife 's property , but under the bolster of the bed they found a delicatecambric cambric pocket handkerchief with Madame Grandemaison 's initials embroidered in the centre . 
Jeremiah confessed that the articles had been in Miss Hogshart 's possession , although he said that she had not given them to him , and in his confusion told such a crooked and improbable story that Monsieur Grandemaison and the officer both believed that he had stolen them himself . 
Monsieur Grandemaison ran immediateiy to his wife to report progress and ask what her pleasure was , and she insisted that Jeremiah should be sent to prison and tried for theft , or for receiving stolen goods at least ; and on his way back to Jeremiah 's room , he encountered Tom Tuck , who , on being informed of the affair , advised him to have Jeremiah committed without delay . 
So Jeremiah was thrown into prison where he encountered Mr. Jacobs as we have already seen in the last chapter . 
He was not possessed of that refined and fastidious virtue which causes its possessors to shrink aghast from a suspicion of guilt or from the haunts of vice , lest their morals should be tainted by their persons coming in contact with one a little less righteous than themselves , and therefore when he fonnd himself in the same apartment with Mr. Washington Mortimer instead of flaring up on the score of his greater respectability , when that person addressed him he returned his salutations in a very civil manner , and told him he was sorry to meet him in so bad a place . 
As we have before stated , Jeremiah 's early education had been sadly neglected , and he had fallen into a loose habit of looking upon all men with nearly the same feelings ; regarding none so bad but there might be some extenuating circumstances in his conduct , nor no one so good that he might not be a good deal better . 
Although he never allowed himself to underrate the good qualities of others , or question one 's motives when his actions were in themselves proper . 
For himself , if he could preserve his own self-respect he cared but little for the opinion of the world , but he was not by any means indifferent to a good name , although he would not have sacrificed a hair 's breadth of his conscience to gain one . 
In the present case he felt guilty , not of the wrong of which he was accused , but of having practiced deceit , of acting a lie , when he took the shawl , to screen himself from ridicule ; and he felt that his punishmet was just , while a consciousness of having intended no wrong nerved his soul to endure whatever degradation he might be compelled to suffer . 
In his present frame of mind , induced by the revelation of Miss Hogshart 's crime , the walls of a prison were more congenial to his feelings than any other place , save the solitude of the country , would have been . 
He knew so little about criminal courts , or of their manner of dealing with offenders , that he never dreamed of such a thing as being bribed , or he would have sent for John , who would gladly have been security for him . 
`` I am accused of stealing , '' replied Jeremiah , `` but I hope it is not necessary for me to assure you that I am innocent of the charge . '' 
But Mr. Jacobs could not sufficiently express his admiration of such an exquisite bit of humor without throwing his arms around Jeremiah 's neck , and hugging him close to his bosom . 
replied Jeremiah , `` I got nothing ; I have wronged no one ; but it 's right that I should suffer . 
said Mr. Jacobs , turning his protuberant black eyes insinuatingly up to Jeremiah 's face , `` come , come , let 's be friends . 
`` I would not do you any injury , '' said Jeremiah , `` if I could avoid it , but you have -- '' `` Good ! 
`` What a malicious wascal , '' said Mr. Jacobs flinging away Jeremiah 's hand , `` you owe me a gwudge because I kept that old watch ; but , if you 'll agwee to keep dark about that , I 'll give you one worth two of it . '' 
`` There 's no need of anger or abuse , '' replied Jeremiah mildly , `` I have done you no wrong , nor threatened any . 
`` Well , it 's a crime of frequent occurrence in all commercial communities , '' replied Jeremiah , `` but yours is a hard case indeed , my friend . '' 
`` But you have no right to complain of them for doing their duty , '' said Jeremiah , `` if they caused you to be arrested it was because you had been guilty of an outrage upon their uncle , or they believed so , at least . '' 
exclaimed Mr. Jacobs in undissembled alarm , and with a scowl which made Jeremiah start , `` do they say that , the wetches ? '' 
`` When you got clear for lack of evidence before , '' replied Jeremiah . 
`` Hush , hush , '' said Jeremiah , `` you know not what you say ; wait until you are less excited . 
But Jeremiah was frightened , for the Jew 's face assumed a look of ferocity that startled him , and his large black eyes glared fiercely at him . 
`` Stop , do n't wun , '' said Mr. Jacobs as he caught hold of Jeremiah 's collar , `` there 's no harm in me now ; but it was I that killed their uncle . 
Yes , it was I. '' `` Let go my collar , '' gasped Jeremiah , `` let me go , I am choking . '' 
Jeremiah 's face grew pale , his knees tottered , and he fell upon the stone floor of the prison . 
Jeremiah having obtained leave of absence for a few days , John had made no enquiries after him , and neither of his partners , nor Mr. Bates had told him of the events of Saturday evening , or of Jeremiah 's subsequent arrest , doubtless influenced by a benevolent wish to spare him the painful feelings that they must have known such news would have caused him ; at least we can conceive of no other motive that could have induced them to keep silent in regard to that unhappy circumstance , for they knew that he would immediately procure the poor fellow 's release , if he were aware of his arrest . 
He had hardly left the counting-room when a note was brought in for him , which the financier perceived was from Jeremiah , and with that peculiar readiness to serve a friend which had ever been a prominent feature in his character , he tore it open and read it , and then tore it up and scattered the fragments upon the floor . 
Had Tom Tuck known how nearly Jeremiah 's note concerned himself , it is probable that he would have treated it with vastly greater consideration . 
When Jeremiah had recovered from the shock which the confession of Mr. Jacobs had given him , his first thought was to convey a hint to the Tucks of their danger , that they might be enabled to make their escape before the Jew could cause them to be arrested , and for that purpose he had addressed a note to John , thinking him th emost suitable person to be put in possession of the secret ; for he had no doubt of the guilt of the brothers , and his kindly feelings towards them and their mother , entirely destroyed his sense of what was due to the Law . 
But Jeremiah was not forgotten , although he was not cheered by the face of a kindly visiter . 
When friend Hogshart heard that he had been carried to prison on a charge of being an accomplice of his daughter , he was grieved beyond measure , for he had no doubt of his innocence , and upon questioning Huldah , she made the most solemn protestations to that effect and begged that her father would obtain his release from prison . 
He having secured his daughter and Jeremiah from the risk of further annoyance by Madame Grandemaison , and delivered his sentiments to the great relief of his overburdened mind , walked deliberately down stairs with the calm air of a man conscious of his own strength of limb and rectitude of purpose . 
He then proceeded to procure the release of Jeremiah , which he accomplished with but little difficulty , although not in time to save him from a night 's lodging in prison . 
Having no longer occasion to remain in the city , he departed immediately for Berkshire county , taking his unhappy daughter with him , and shaking the dust from the soles of his feet , as he entered the steamboat , with a firm , though silent resolve never again to venture within the influence of the city 's temptations . 
The next morning , at the usual hour of bringing the prisoners out for examination , Jeremiah was told that he was at liberty to go where he pleased . 
But he almost felt loth to go , overburdened as he was by a knowledge of the guilt of the Tucks , and doubtful in what way to discharge the fearful duty imposed upon him of making it known . 
It would have been a relief to him had he been kept in close confinement where he could neither see the guilty men themselves , nor hear of the distress which a knowledge of their crimes must occasion . 
But he was sure of one friend , who would bear with his weakness and sympathise with his feelings , and in pursuit of him he immediately went . 
As he entered the counting-room there was a general commotion among all the clerks , except only Mr. Bates , who with a loftiness of manner that conscious dignity and merit could alone impart , turned over the leaves of his ponderous ledger without even deigning to look at the culprit . 
Jeremiah replied to the enquiries of the clerks as to his confinement , and how he had effected his escape good-naturedly , but without giving them any positive information on the subject , and then passed into the private office where he met the financier and the junior partner , John having just gone out to deliver the note to Madder & Co. . 
At sight of the brothers Jeremiah gave an involuntary start , which they were pleased to consider an evidence of his guilt . 
`` I am looking after Mr. Tremlett , '' replied Jeremiah . 
I presume that I am not indebted for my freedom to your good will , '' replied Jeremiah , and the next moment his heart smote him for his rudeness to a man who was in his power . 
`` Out of this you insolent thief , '' cried the financier as he leaped up from his desk , `` do you presume on the friendship of my partner to insult me ? 
`` Kick him , Tom , '' said F. Augustus , as he threw down the last volume of Sir Reginald , for he had that moment devoured the last word of that splendid production , `` kick him . '' 
But Jeremiah wished to avoid any disturbance , and he retreated from the office before the financier had time to improve upon his brother 's hint . 
John was completely confounded at the strange behavior of Mr. Mildmen , and as he had regretted his rudeness towards Mr. Kittle the moment the old grocer had quitted the office , he now regretted that he had been so civil to the broker and had half resolved to follow him and pull his nose , when Jeremiah appeared before him . 
`` What has happened , Jeremiah , and where do you come from ? '' 
he exclaimed , not a little moved by his downcast looks . 
`` From prison , Jeremiah , and have you been visiting the prisons with friend Hogshart and his daughter ? '' 
said Jeremiah with a blush . 
`` Stealing , Jeremiah ! 
After some discussion with Jeremiah , he at last determined to endeavor to bribe Mr. Jacobs to silence that the brothers might have time to escape . 
In pursuance of this plan , however , Jeremiah started immediately for the prison to make overtures to Mr. Jacobs , and John agreed to remain in his chamber until he returned to report the success of his negotiation . 
Not satisfied with the harm they were doing to their innocent partner , the Tucks persuaded Mr. Madder to include Jeremiah in their complaint , for they knew that he would be very likely to frustrate their ultimate plans if he were left at liberty . 
It so happened that just as they were about to leave the magistrate 's office with the warrant , Jeremiah passed by on his way to the prison . 
This was an exceedingly unfortunate move for the Tucks ; for Mr. Jacobs , having been in a state of great uncertainty as to the proper course for him to pursue in regard to them ever since he had discovered that Jeremiah had been released , had just resolved to make a confession of his crime , partly out of revenge and partly through fear ; and had sent for the keeper of the prison for that purpose . 
But had Jeremiah been allowed to proceed on his benevolent errand , he would have arrived in time to have prevented the unfortunate disclosure . 
`` I did not intend it , '' replied John , `` but the bungling of Jeremiah I suppose has imposed it upon me . '' 
`` That Jeremiah 's a deep fellow ; it 's well we caught him , '' observed Mr. Mildmen in a whisper to Mr. Madder . 
`` What have you done with Jeremiah ? '' 
`` Jeremiah ? 
O , ah , very true , well , yes , '' said the broker , `` Jeremiah is safe ; he will be kept at the magistrate 's office until we return . '' 
Jeremiah will answer all your purposes ; and once more I assure you that I can not go with you . 
`` I am innocent , mother , innocent of this crime as my poor father ; and so is Jeremiah ; he knows nothing of it ; tell me again , mother , that you believe me innocent . '' 
There being not the slightest evidence to criminate Jeremiah , he was released from confinement the day after his committal , and during the whole trial of the Tucks he labored incessantly in their behalf , and exerted himself to the utmost of his ability to solace and comfort their mother , making many sacrifices for her sake , and sending her money when he supposed her to be in want . 
The estate of the firm was put into the hands of receivers appointed by the Chancellor , who employed Jeremiah for their chief assistant at the same salary that he had been receiving as correspondent clerk . 
The consequence was that the estate of Tremlett & Tuck , to the astonishment of everybody , paid all its debts , including even the fradulent notes of Fred , which had been sold to the brothers Mildmen , and there being a balance of a few hundred dollars left , the Receiver presented it to Jeremiah , as a reward for his industry and honesty . 
But Jeremiah did not consider himself privileged to keep it , and made a present of it to Fred Tuck , who was thereby enabled to establish a shop in the Bowery for the sale of segars and cheap novels , from the profits of which he supported himself and his mother quite genteelly , although in a style so far removed from their former magnificence , that it will admit of no comparison with it . 
As soon as Mr. Loudon heard the melancholy news of the breaking up of the firm of Tremlett & Tucks , by the death of the senior partner and the arrest of the others , he forwarded on to Jeremiah the will that John had deposited with him for safe keeping , before leaving Charleston . 
The testator had bequeathed his entire property to be divided equally between Jeremiah and Fidelia , but Jeremiah refused to receive anything for his own portion excepting a gold pencil case that had been a new year 's present from old Mr. Tremlett to his son the year before he died ; the remainder of the personal property , consisting of a small collection of books , a few good pictures , a gold watch and his wearing apparel , he insisted that Fidelia should receive ; and she was too happy to receive anything that had once belonged to her affianced husband to refuse them . 
Jeremiah would have bought it , but it was infinitely beyond his reach ; he could not hope ever to be rich enough to buy it ; but still he could not endure the thought that anybody should inhabit it but Fidelia , for he knew that it was built expressly for her , and he modestly requested the purchaser of it , Mr. Haverstraw , a dry goods jobber , not to sell it without first giving him the refusal of it . 
He therefore called upon Jeremiah , and after obtaining a promise of secresy from him , told him that he could put him in possession of Mr. Tremlett 's lost will by which he could recover one half of the old merchant 's estate . 
At first Jeremiah was incredulous , but Fred told him if he would give a conditional bond for ten thousand dollars , to be paid when he got possession of the estate , the will should be placed in his hands in less than an hour . 
With these conditions Jeremiah complied , and the will was brought to him within the stipulated time . 
At sight of this once eagerly souglit document he was quite overcome and unable to speak for a long time ; not that he exulted in this sudden and altogether unlooked for good fortune to himself . 
Very far from it . 
He thought not of his own interests in the matter at all , but of his dear friend whose life had been sacrificed , and of all the suffering and distress that had been endured by others for want of the worthless parchment which he held in his hand . 
He retired to his chamber and wept , and prayed Heaven not to desert him in the day of prosperity which now seemed dawning upon him . 
Having given vent to his feelings in tears and fortified himself against temptation by prayer , he hastened to Fidelia and imparted the strange news to her ; but he cautioned her against indulging in too lively hopes for as they could only gain possession of the property by a suit at law , if they gained it at all , he could not allow himself to entertain any anticipations of success . 
The first investment that Jeremiah made , was in the purchase of the Staten Island cottage , for which he was compelled to pay about three times its original cost ; for Mr. Haverstraw , the owner , perceiving that he had got hold of a customer who was determined to purchase , demanded a sum which brought a blush into his own face when he named it . 
But Jeremiah gave his check for it , without hesitation , as he would have done had it been three times as much , and then tendered the cottage to Fidelia . 
She accepted of it , for she well knew that he would be grieved if she either refused it , or offered to pay for it . 
His mother being left in complete destitution , Jeremiah took it upon himself to see that her wants were duly supplied , although he never could prevail upon himself to see her , and at her death , which happened in a few months after her son , deserted her , defrayed the expenses of her funeral , and caused a plain white stone with the simple record of her death , to be placed above her remains . 
While the suit for the recovery of Mr. Tremlett 's property was in progress , Jeremiah and Fidelia were , of necessity , often brought together ; but apart from this cause a community of grief made the society of each other at first a solace and at last a delight . 
