`` It is for that reason , Raoul , that I have ventured so much more than is becoming in my sex , to meet you . 
`` Not offended , Raoul , but endangered . 
If the vice-governatore gets this notion , he will order the batteries to fire upon you , and will destroy you as an enemy . '' 
`` Not he , Ghita . 
He is too fond of le Capitaine Smeet ' , to do so cruel a thing ; and then he must shift all his guns , before they will hurt le Feu-Follet , where she lies . 
`` I know her position , Raoul , and understood why you anchored in that spot . 
`` I have seen enough of these things , Raoul , to know that a heavy shot , fired from these heights , would have gone through your little Feu-Follet , and , coming out under water , would have sunk you to the bottom of the Mediterranean . '' 
But enough of this , Ghita ; I get quite enough of shot , and ships , and sinkings , in everyday life , and , now I have at last found this blessed moment , we will not throw away the opportunity by talking of such matters -- '' `` Nay , Raoul , I can think of nothing else , and therefore can talk of nothing else . 
Suppose the vice-governatore should suddenly take it into his head to send a party of soldiers to le Feu-Follet , with orders to seize her -- what would then be your situation ? '' 
`` Let him ; and I would send a boat 's crew to his palazzo , here , '' the conversation was in French , which Ghita spoke fluently , though with an Italian accent , `` and take him on a cruise after the English , and his beloved Austrians ! 
-- the idea will not cross his constitutional brain , and there is little use in talking about it . 
`` Religion , '' repeated Ghita , in a saddened tone ; `` the less you say on that holy subject , Raoul , the better I shall like it , and the better it will be for yourself , in the end . 
She knew that Raoul had already been a prisoner in England two years , where , as he often said himself , he staid just long enough to acquire a very respectable acquaintance with the language , if not with the institutions , manners , and religion , when he made his escape , aided by the American , called Ithuel Bolt , an impressed seaman of our own Republic , who fully entering into all the plans imagined by his more enterprising friend and fellow-sufferer , had cheerfully enlisted in the execution of his future schemes of revenge . 
`` You do not openly call your lugger le Feu-Follet , Raoul ; '' she answered , after a minute 's pause ; `` that would be a dangerous name to utter , even in Porto Ferrajo . 
`` I am afraid the name would not then be Feu-Follet , but Ghita-Folie , '' said the girl , laughing , though she felt a bitter pang at the heart , that cost her an effort to control ; -- `` no more of this now , Raoul ; we may be observed , and watched ; it is necessary that we separate . '' 
A hurried conversation , of more interest to the young couple themselves , than it would prove to the reader , though it might not have been wholly without the latter , but which it would be premature to relate , now followed , when Ghita left Raoul on the hill , insisting that she knew the town too well to have any apprehensions about threading its narrow and steep streets , at any hour , by herself . 
This much , in sooth , must be said in favour of Andrea Barrofaldi 's administration of justice ; he had made it safe for the gentle , the feeble and the poor , equally , to move about the island by day or by night ; it seldom happening that so great an enemy to peace and tranquillity appeared among his simple dependants , as was the fact at this precise moment . 
`` I see only the Austrian that is worth the trouble of a movement , '' quietly observed Raoul , whose eye was scanning the inner harbour , his own vessel lying two hundred yards without it , it will be remembered -- `` and she is light , and would scarce pay for sending her to Toulon . 
`` The Austrian mightdo , '' added Raoul , who paid little attention to his companion 's remarks , `` if he were a streak or two lower in the water -- but , after all , E-too - ell , '' for so he pronounced the other 's name -- `` I do not like a capture that is made without any éclat , or spirit , in the attack and defence . '' 
A long and gloomy silence followed , during which Raoul turned his face aft , and stood looking at the movements of the men , as they washed the decks , while Ithuel seated himself on a knight-head , and , his chin resting on his hand , he sat ruminating , in bitterness of spirit , like Milton 's devil , in some of his dire cogitations , on the atrocious wrong of which he had really been the subject . 
At length , sighing heavily , he rose from the knight-head , and turned towards the mouth of the bay , as if to conceal from Raoul the expression of his countenance . 
This act , however , was scarcely done , ere he started , and an exclamation escaped him , that induced his companion to turn quickly on his heel , and face the sea . 
With the existence and position of this island , both Raoul and Ithuel were necessarily acquainted , for they had seen it and noted its situation the previous night , though it had escaped their notice that , from the place where the Feu-Follet had brought up , it was not visible . 
In a word , that which both Raoul and Ithuel had fancied an islet , was neither more nor less than a ship . 
exclaimed Raoul , `` that ensign is the tricolor , or my eyes are untrue to my own country . 
repeated Raoul , who was familiar with his shipmate 's adventures , and did not require to be told his meaning ; `` if you are not mistaken , Etooell , le Feu-Follet needs put her lantern under a shade . 
`` Sa-a-c-r-r-r-e , '' muttered Raoul between his teeth ; `` Etooell , if an Englishman , he may very well take it into his head to come in here , and perhaps anchor within half-a-cable 's length of us ! 
This last fit was on him , and he waited for Raoul to lead the conversation . 
Raoul had a boat 's crew of four , all of whom had acquired the English , like himself , in a prison-ship , and with these men he now prepared to land ; for , as yet , he had made little progress in the business which brought him into his present awkward predicament , and he was not a man to abandon an object so dear to him , lightly . 
Finding himself a dilemma , he was resolved to make an effort to reap , if possible , some advantage from his critical situation . 
Accordingly , after he had taken his coffee , and given his orders , the boat 's crew was called , and he left the lugger 's side . 
The time they remained in waiting for Raoul , was consequently spent in eluding attempts to induce them to betray themselves , and in caricaturing Englishmen . 
`` Amico , '' said Annunziate , one of the prettiest girls of her class in Porto Ferrajo , and who had been expressly employed by Vito Viti to perform this office , `` here are figs from the main-land . 
`` Bad fig '' -- sputtered Jacques , Raoul 's cockswain , to whom this offering was made , and speaking in broken English ; `` better at ` ome . 
`` Yes , Signore , as the melons of Napoli , '' continued Annunziate , who did not understand a syllable of the ungracious answers she received ; `` Signor Vito Viti , our podestâ , ordered me to offer these figs to the forestieri -- the Inglesi , who are in the bay -- '' `` God-dam , '' returned Jacques , in a quick , sententious manner , that was intended to get rid of the fair tormentor , and which , temporarily , at least , was not without its effect . 
Raoul , guided by an instinct , or having some special object before his eyes , walked swiftly up the heights , ascending to the promontory , so often mentioned . 
As he passed , every eye was turned on him , for , by this time , the distrust in the place was general ; and the sudden appearance of a frigate , wearing a French ensign , before the port , had given rise to apprehensions of a much more serious nature than any which could possibly attend the arrival of a craft as light as the lugger , by herself . 
The batteries , it was known , were manned ; and , although it would have puzzled the acutest mind of Elba to give a reason why the French should risk so unprofitable an attack , as one on their principal port , long ere Raoul was seen among them , such a result was not only dreaded , but , in a measure , anticipated with confidence . 
As a matter of course , then , every eye followed his movements , as he went with bounding steps up the narrow terraces of the steep street , and the least of his actions was subjected to the narrowest and most jealous scrutiny . 
So intent , indeed , were they in gazing at this apprehended enemy , that Raoul stood in front of Andrea Barrofaldi , cap in hand , and bowing his salutation , before his approach was even anticipated . 
`` Bon giorno , Signor Vice-governatore , '' commenced Raoul , in his gay , easy and courteous manner , and certainly with an air that betrayed any feeling but those of apprehension and guilt ; `` we have a fine morning , on the land , here ; and apparently a fine frigate , of the French republic , in the offing , yonder . '' 
exclaimed Raoul , starting a little in spite of his assumed indifference of manner ; `` why , yes , I believe Bolt wasborn in America -- English America , you know , Signori , and that is much the same thing as having been born in England , herself . 
Raoul was uneasy , for he was entirely ignorant of all that had passed in the wine-house , and he thought he detected irony in the manner of the vice-governatore . 
`` Certainly , Signore , '' he answered , however , with unmoved steadiness ; `` certainly , Signore , the Americani adore Inghilterra ; and well they may , considering all that great nation has done for them . 
No one thought of Raoul at that happy moment , though to him there was nothing of new interest in the affair , with the exception of the apparent intention of the stranger to enter the bay . 
`` Signor Vice-governatore , do not trouble yourself to dwell on my poor services , '' answered Raoul , scarce caring to conceal the smile that struggled about his handsome mouth ; `` think rather of those of these gallant signori , who greatly regret that an opportunity for gaining distinction has been lost . 
Then the calm exterior of Raoul counted for something , more especially as he remained , apparently , an unconcerned observer of the rapid approach of the ship . 
`` We shall not have occasion to use your gallant offer , Signor Smees , '' said Andrea , kindly , as he was about to retire into the house , with one or two of his counsellors ; `` but we thank you none the less . 
`` Now I see she is a countryman , I think I can , Signore , '' answered Raoul , carelessly ; `` I take her to be la Proserpine , a French-built ship , a circumstance that first deceived me as to her character . '' 
`` Several of them , Signor Vice-governatore , '' answered Raoul , without a moment 's hesitation or the smallest remorse ; though he had no idea whatever who Milton was ; `` Milton , Shakspeare , Cicero , and all our great writers , often mention Signori of this family . '' 
Raoul perceived that he had reached too far , though he was not in absolute danger of losing his balance . 
Smiling , as in consideration of the other 's provincial view of things , he rejoined , with an à-plombthat would have done credit to a politician , in an explanatory and half-apologetic tone . 
`` Quite true , Signor Vice-governatore , as respects him you mention , '' he said ; `` but not true as respects Sir Cicero , my illustrious compatriot . 
He was born in Devonshire '' -- this was the county in which Raoul had been imprisoned -- `` and must have died in Dublin . 
As for supposing it possible that one who spoke with the ease and innocence of Raoul , was inventing as he went along , it was an idea he was himself much too unpractised to entertain ; and the very first thing he did , on entering the palace , was to make a memorandum which might lead him , at a leisure moment , to inquire into the nature of the writings , and the general merits of Sir Cicero , the illustrious namesake of him of Rome . 
As soon as this little digression terminated , he entered the palace , after again expressing the hope that `` Sir Smees '' would not fail to accompany `` Sir Brown , '' in the visit which the functionary fully expected to receive from the latter , in the course of the next hour or two . 
The company now began to disperse , and Raoul was soon left to his own meditations ; which , just at that moment , were anything but agreeable . 
As Raoul complied with her desire , any distant spectator might well have fancied the meeting accidental , though he poured forth a flood of expressions of love and admiration . 
`` Enough , Raoul , '' said the girl blushing , and dropping her eyes , though no displeasure was visible on her serene and placid face , `` another time I might indulge you . 
`` No doubt -- la Proserpine , Etooell says , and he knows ; you remember Etooell , dearest Ghita , the American who was with me at the tower -- well , he has served in this very ship , and knows her to be la Proserpine , of forty-four . '' 
Raoul paused a moment ; then he added , laughing in a way to surprise his companion -- `` Oui -- la Proserpine , le Capitaine Sir Brown ! '' 
`` What you can find to amuse you in all this , Raoul , is more than I can discover . 
`` No , not a Ghita , I fear , Raoul , '' answered the girl smiling , spite of herself , while her colour almost insensibly deepend -- `` Livorno has few ignorant country girls , like me , who have been educated in a lone watch-tower on the coast . '' 
`` Ghita , '' answered Raoul , with feeling , `` that poor lone watch-tower of thine , might well be envied by many a noble dame at Roma and at Napoli ; for it has left thee innocent and pure -- a gem that gay capitals seldom contain ; or , if found there , not in its native beauty , which they sully by use . '' 
`` What know ` st thou , Raoul , of Roma and Napoli , and of noble dames and rich gems ? '' 
`` And thou didstfind him holy and venerable , Raoul , '' interposed the girl , with earnestness and energy , for this was the great point of separation between them -- `` I knowthou found ` st him thus , and worthy to be the head of an ancient and true church . 
My eyes never beheld him ; but this do I knowto be true . '' 
Raoul was aware that the laxity of his religious opinions , opinions that he may be said to have inherited from his country , as it then existed morally , alone prevented Ghita from casting aside all other ties , and following his fortunes , in weal and in woe . 
Still he was too frank and generous to deceive , while he had ever been too considerate to strive to unsettle her confiding and consoling faith . 
Her infirmity even , for so he deemed her notions to be , had a charm in his eyes ; few men , however loose or sceptical in their own opinions on such matters , finding any pleasure in the contemplation of a female infidel ; and he had never looked more fondly into her anxious but lovely face , than he did at this very instant , making his reply with a truth that bordered on magnanimity . 
he said ; `` in thee I worship purity , and holiness , and -- '' `` Nay -- nay , Raoul , donot -- refrain -- if thou really lov ` st me , utter not this frightful blasphemy ; tell me , rather , if thou didst not find the holy father , as I describe him ? '' 
`` Say no more , Raoul -- I will listen to no more of this . 
As for Raoul , he was at a loss , for a moment , whether to follow or not ; then he hastened to the terrace , in front of the government-house , again , in order to ascertain the meaning of the gun . 
All this was very intelligible to Raoul , it being evident , at a glance , that the frigate had reached in nearer both to look at the warlike lugger that she saw in the bay , and to communicate more clearly with her by signals . 
Raoul scarcely breathed , as he watched the lugger , in anticipation of her course . 
What the signal meant Raoul did not know , for though he was provided with signals by means of which to communicate with the vessels of war of his own nation , the Directory had not been able to supply him with those necessary to communicate with the enemy . 
While serving on board the Proserpine , the very ship that was now menacing the lugger , he had seen a meeting between her and a privateer English lugger , one of the two or three of that rig which sailed out of England , and his observant eye had noted the flags she had shown on the occasion . 
Nevertheless , the frigate did not seem disposed to alter her course ; for , either influenced by a desire to anchor , or by a determination to take a still closer look at the lugger , she stood on , nearing the eastern side of the bay , at the rate of some six miles to the hour . 
Signore , if that were all , I fear we should have to yield the palm to the French , '' answered Raoul , laughing ; `` for the best-looking craft in His Majesty 's service are republican prizes . 
Raoul was nearer to the truth than he imagined , perhaps , for certainly Ithuel 's numbers had made nonsense , according to the signal-book of the Proserpine ; but his confident manner had an effect on Vito Viti , who was duped by his seeming earnestness , as well as by a circumstance , which , rightly considered , told as much against , as it did in favour of his companion . 
Calling a neighbour to him , he sent the latter up the hill , with a message to Andrea Barrofaldi , and then he hurried down towards the port , it being much easier for him , just at that moment , to ascend , than to descend . 
Raoul kept at his side , and together they reached the water 's edge . 
On the present occasion , he did not spare the frigate , for , having caught at the bait that his companion had so artfully thrown out to him , he was loud in the expression of his distrust . 
All the signalling and showing of colours , he now believed to be a republican trick ; and precisely in proportion as he became resentful of the supposed fraud of the ship , was he disposed to confide blindly in the honesty of the lugger . 
In consequence of this disposition , the character and loquacity of the man , all aided by a few timely suggestions on the part of Raoul , in five minutes it came to be generally understood that the frigate was greatly to be distrusted , while the lugger was to rise in public favour exactly in the degree in which the other fell . 
`` Most true , Signor Podestâ , '' answered Raoul , from his boat ; `` and such being the case , I hasten to haul my vessel into the mouth of your basin , which I will defend against boats , or any attempt of these rascally republicans to land . '' 
Waving his hand , the young sailor pulled quickly out of the crowded little port , followed by a hundred vivas . 
Raoul now saw that his orders had not been neglected . 
He also perceived that the light anchor , or large kedge , by which le Feu-Follet rode , was under foot , as seamen term it ; or that the cable was nearly `` up and down . '' 
With a wave of the hand he communicated a new order , and then he saw that the men were raising the kedge from the bottom . 
By the time his foot touched the deck , indeed , the anchor was up and stowed , and nothing held the vessel but the line that had been run to the quay . 
Raoul was visible , trumpet in hand ; but as the wind was light , his powerful voice sufficed to tell his story . 
`` Signori , '' he shouted , `` I will lead the rascally republican away from your port , in chase ; thatwill be the most effectual mode of doing you a service . '' 
The truth of her character rendered her indisposed to the deception which Raoul was practising , while feminine weakness inclined her to forgive the offence , in the motive . 
But Raoul had no intention of trusting his Jack-o ' - Lantern where it might so readily be extinguished by the hand of man . 
Raoul accepted these compliments , both national and personal , in a very gracious manner , squeezing the hand of the podestâ with suitable cordiality and condescension , acting the great man as if accustomed to this sort of incense from infancy . 
`` King George , my master , '' continued Raoul , as he and Vito Viti walked from the quay towards the residence of Andrea Barrofaldi , `` is particularly pointed on this subject , with us all , in his personal orders . 
Raoul delighted in playing the part he was now performing , but he was a little addicted to over-acting it . 
Like all exceedingly bold and decided geniuses , he was constantly striding across that step which separates the sublime from the ridiculous , and consequently ran no small hazard in the way of discovery . 
But with Vito Viti he incurred little risk on this score , provincial credulity and a love of the marvellous coming in aid of his general ignorance , to render him a safe depository of anything of this sort that the other might choose to advance . 
`` The latter is a service I have not yet performed , '' answered Raoul , innocently , `` but which may one day well happen . 
The podestâ wanted but this opening to pour out a history of his own emotions , sensations and raptures . 
He expatiated in glowing terms on the service the lugger had rendered the place by leading off the rascally republicans , showing that he considered the manœuvre of passing the port , instead of entering it , as one of the most remarkable of which he had ever heard , or even read . 
The reception which Andrea Barrofaldi gave Raoul , was far less warm than that he received from the podestâ , though it was polite , and without any visible signs of distrust . 
Raoul laughed , and he even had the grace to blush a little ; after which he appeared to reflect intensely on some matter of moment . 
Smiles struggled round his handsome mouth , and then he suddenly assumed an air of sailor-like frankness , and disclosed his passing sensations in words . 
I perceive , Signore , '' continued Raoul , as he and Andrea walked a little aside , `` that you have not easily forgotten my little fanfaronade about our English Cicero . 
Raoul made a suitable acknowledgment for this offer , and from that moment the best understanding existed between the parties . 
The privateersman , who had received a much better education than he pretended to , and who was a consummate actor , as well as , on certain occasions , a practised flatterer , determined to be more cautious in future , sparing his literary conjectures , whatever liberties he might take with other subjects . 
With her he had been all sincerity , the influence he had obtained over the feelings of that pure-minded girl , being as much the result of the nature and real feeling he had manifested , as of his manly appearance and general powers of pleasing . 
With Andrea Barrofaldi , and Vito Viti , and most especially with the hated English , it was a very different thing , however ; and seldom was Raoul happier , than when he was employed in precisely such a scene of mystification as that in which he was at that moment engaged . 
The vice-governatore having established relations so completely amicable with the ` Signor Smees , ' could do no less than invite his guest to enter the palazzo , along with himself and the podestâ . 
This little delay , on Raoul 's part , enabled the podestâ to have a passing word with his friend unobserved . 
He found Raoul still standing on the entrance , examining the sea . 
All these would have been good prizes ; but , to do the privateersman justice , he was little in the habit of molesting mariners of so low a class . 
There was one felucca , however , that was just rounding the promontory , coming in from the north ; and with the people of this craft he determined to have some communication as soon as he returned to the port , with a view to ascertain if she had fallen in with the frigate . 
Just as he had come to this resolution , the podestâ joined him , and he was ushered into the house . 
Raoul bore this very well , waiting patiently for the light to disappear , when he felt a perfect confidence of again meeting Ghita on the promenade . 
As he had discovered how much more safety there was in diffidence than in pretension , he found his task of deception comparatively easy ; and by letting the vice-governatore have his own way , he not only succeeded in gaining that functionary over to a full belief in his assumed nationality , but in persuading him to believe the ` Signor Smees ' a young man of even more erudition than he had at first supposed . 
By means as simple and natural as these , Raoul made more progress in the good graces of Andrea Barrofaldi , in the next two hours , than he could have done in a year , by setting up his own knowledge and reading as authority . 
There is little doubt that the vice-governatore found this interview agreeable , from the time he was disposed to waste on it ; and , it is certain , Raoul thought it some of the hardest duty in which he had ever been engaged . 
As for Vito Viti , he was edified , and he did not care to conceal it , giving frequent manifestations of his satisfaction , by expressions of delight ; occasionally venturing a remark , as if expressly to betray his own ignorance . 
`` I have often known you great , vice-governatore , '' he cried , when Andrea had closed a dissertation on the earlier history of all the northern nations , which lasted fully half-an-hour , `` but never so great as you are to-night ! 
`` Signor Podestâ , '' added Raoul , `` but one feeling has prevailed , in my mind , while attending to what has been said ; and that has been deep regret that my profession has cut me off from all these rich stores of profound thought . 
Raoul gladly seized upon this promise as a hint to depart , and he took his leave with suitable acknowledgments of gratitude and delight . 
When he got out of the palazzo , however , he gave a long , low whistle , like a man who felt he had escaped from a scene in which persecution had been a little lightened by the ridiculous , and uttered a few curses on the nations of the north , for being so inconsiderate as to have histories so much longer and more elaborate than he conceived to be at all necessary . 
All this passed as he hastened along the promenade , which he found deserted , every human being having apparently left it . 
At length he thought he perceived a female form some distance ahead of him , and in a part of the walk that was never much frequented . 
Hastening towards it , his quick eye discerned the person of her he sought , evidently waiting for his approach . 
`` Raoul , '' exclaimed Ghita , reproachfully , `` in what will these often-repeated risks finally end ? 
`` And why a diplomate , in particular , Raoul -- thou art too honest to deceive long , whatever thou may ` st do on an occasion like this , and in a pressing emergency . '' 
Ghita , to own the truth , expected this very offer , which , agreeable as it was , her sense of propriety would certainly have prevented her from accepting , but for one consideration : it might be made the means of getting Raoul out of an enemy 's port ; and , in so much , out of harm 's way . 
This , with one of her affectionate heart , was an object to which she would have sacrificed appearances of even a graver character . 
But , on the other hand , the distance between Porto Ferrajo and the Towers , was only about fifty miles , and a few hours would suffice to place her in safety beneath her own roof ; and , what was of more importance , in her view , just then , Raoul in safety along with her . 
`` If my uncle and myself could accept this generous offer , when would it be convenient for you to sail , Raoul ? '' 
Is it not odd , Raoul , that he is profoundly ignorant of your being in the bay ? 
He gets more and more lost to things around him every day , and I do believe he does not recollect that you command an enemy 's vessel half the time . '' 
`` Let him trust to me ; he shall never have occasion to know it , Ghita . '' 
`` We are assured of that , Raoul . 
murmured Ghita , tears forcing themselves to her eyes , and a convulsive effort alone suppressing the deep emotion with which she uttered the words ; `` but we thank thee again and again , Raoul , as the instrument of his mercy , in the affair of the Algerine , and are willing to trust to thee now , and always . 
Raoul and Ghita next discussed the little details ; a place of rendezvous without the town , a short distance below the wine-house of Benedetta , being selected , in preference to choosing one that would necessarily subject them to observation . 
When left alone , Raoul bethought him that Ithuel and Filippo were on shore , as usual ; the New-Hampshire man consenting to serve only on condition of being allowed to land ; a privilege he always abused by driving a contraband trade , on occasions like the present . 
So great was the fellow 's dexterity in such matters , that Raoul , who disdained smuggling , while he thought himself compelled to wink at it in others , had less apprehensions of his committing the lugger , than he might have felt in the case of one less cunning . 
But it was now necessary to get these two men off , or abandon them ; and fortunately remembering the name of the wine-house where they had taken their potations the previous night , he repaired to it without delay , luckily finding Ithuel and his interpreter deep in the discussion of another flask of the favourite Tuscan beverage . 
` Maso and his usual companions were present also , and there being nothing unusual in the commander of an English ship of war 's liking good liquor , Raoul , to prevent suspicion , drew a chair , and asked for his glass . 
By the conversation that followed , the young privateersman felt satisfied that , though he might have succeeded in throwing dust into the eyes of the vice-governatore and the podestâ , these experienced old seamen still distrusted his character . 
To all this , however , Raoul was more indifferent than he might have been , but for the arrangement to sail so soon . 
He took his wine , therefore , with apparent indifference , and , in proper season , withdrew , carrying with him Ithuel and the Genoese . 
Itwas dark when Raoul quitted the government-house , leaving Andrea Barrofaldi and Vito Viti , in the library of the former . 
It was , perhaps , fortunate for Raoul and his associates , that the English officers had so strong a desire , as Griffin expressed it , `` to take the lugger alive ; '' else might she have been destroyed where she lay , by removing a gun or two from its proper embrasure , and planting them behind some natural ramparts among the rocks . 
In this manner , then , did hour after hour pass away , a light land-breeze blowing , but coming so directly into the bay , as to induce Raoul not to lift his kedge . 
To own the truth , Raoul was in no hurry to sail , for the longer his departure was protracted , the longer would he have the happiness of retaining the lovely girl on board ; and the zephyr of the succeeding day would be almost certain to carry le Feu-Follet up to the island-like promontory of Monte Argentaro , the point where stood the watch-towers of which Carlo was the keeper , and in one of which he resided . 
Under the circumstances , therefore , it is not surprising that the rising of the land-breeze was overlooked , or at least disregarded ; and that Raoul sat conversing with Ghita on deck , until long past midnight , ere he allowed her to seek her little cabin , where everything had been properly arranged for her reception . 
To own the truth , Raoul was so confident of having completely mystified all on shore , that he felt no apprehensions from that quarter ; and , desirous of prolonging his present happiness as much as possible , he had very coolly determined not to sail until the southerly air of the morning should come ; which , as usual , would just suffice to carry him well into the canal , when the zephyr would do the rest . 
But , while Raoul was so indifferent to the danger he ran , the feeling was quite the reverse with Ithuel Bolt . 
The Proserpine was the bane of this man 's life ; and he not only hated every stick , and every timber in her , but every officer and man who was attached to her -- the king , whose colours she wore , and the nation whose interests she served . 
He thought it probable the former would return in quest of her enemy ; and , expressly with a view to this object , when he turned in , at nine , he left orders to be called at two , that he might be on the alert in season . 
This told Raoul the precise position of his enemy ; and he was not sorry to see that he was already to the westward of her ; a fact that permitted him to slip round the island again , so near in as to be completely concealed by the back-ground of cliffs . 
By the aid of an excellent night-glass , too , he was enabled to see the frigate , distant about a league , under everything that would draw , from her royals down , standing towards the mouth of the bay on the larboard tack ; having made her calculations so accurately as to drop into windward of her port , with the customary breeze off the land . 
At this sight Raoul laughed , and ordered the mainsail taken in . 
Half-an-hour later , he directed the foresail to be brailed ; brought his jigger-sheet in flat ; put his helm hard down ; and hauled the jib-sheet to windward . 
Of course she was far beyond the danger of missiles from the land . 
Just as the sun appeared , the south air came , it is true , but so lightly , as to render it barely possible to keep the little lugger in command , by heaving-to with her head to the south-west . 
The Proserpine stood in until the day had advanced far enough to enable her look-outs to detect le Feu-Follet braving her , as it might be , in the western board , at the distance of about a league and a half , under her jib and jigger , as described . 
`` That felucca is the craft which lay near the landing , '' quietly observed Raoul , who had now come on the forecastle with a view to converse with Ithuel ; `` her name is la Divina Providenza ; she is given to smuggling between Leghorn and Corsica , and is probably bound to the latter , at this moment . 
No port is free , in that sense ; it being treason for a craft to communicate with the foe , unless she happen to be le Feu-Follet , '' observed Raoul , laughing ; `` we areprivileged , mon brave ! '' 
Raoul made no reply to this , but stood watching the movement in silence . 
Still , as has been seen , there was sufficient air to force a vessel through the water ; and , had Raoul been as diligent as the people of the two other crafts , he might , at that moment , have been off the western end of the island , and far out of harm 's way . 
As it was , he had continued watching the result , but permitting all the other parties gradually to approach him . 
Had it not been for Ithuel 's very positive knowledge of the ship -- his entire certainty of her being his old prison , as he bitterly called her , it is not improbable that the lugger 's crew might have been the dupe of so much well-acted ingenuity ; and , as it was , opinions were greatly divided , Raoul , himself , being more than half disposed to fancy that his American ally , for once , was wrong , and that the ship in sight was actually what she professed to be -- a cruiser of the republic . 
All this was done in plain view of Raoul , whose glass was constantly at his eye , and who studied the smallest movement with jealous distrust . 
exclaimed Raoul ; `` all this seems right -- what if the frigate should be French , after all . 
`` This looks like real work , '' answered Raoul . 
-- cried Raoul -- `` these are English John Bulls , without a shadow of doubt . 
Ithuel rubbed his hands with delight , perfectly satisfied that Raoul could no longer be deceived , though the fire between the felucca and the launch was kept up with spirit , the shooting being such as might have done credit to a bonâ fideconflict . 
Raoul ordered the sweeps of le Feu-Follet to be run out , and manned . 
Raoul , however , understood himself far better than this supposition would give reason to suppose . 
He swept the lugger up in a line with la Divina Providenza and the boats , in the first place , as the position in which she would be the least likely to suffer from the fire of the latter ; well knowing that whatever shot were thrown , were purposely sent so high as to do no mischief ; and , in the second place , that he might bring his enemies in a single range from his own guns . 
`` Mes enfans , '' -- shouted Raoul -- `` soyez calmes -- Fire ! '' 
A single rope secured the felucca to the lugger , and Raoul , Ithuel , and a few more , stepped on board the former . 
So active were the flames , at that dry season , that Raoul regretted he had not taken the precaution to awaken them after he had removed his own vessel ; but the southerly air continuing , he was enabled to get to a safe distance before they actually ascended the felucca 's rigging , and seized upn her sails . 
But , hauling aft all his sheets , Raoul soon took the lugger clear of her flaming prize ; and then she stood towards the west end of Elba , going , as usual , in so light an air , three feet to the frigate 's two . 
Such flickerings of the lamp , before it burnt entirely out , were common , and Raoul felt certain that there would be no more wind that day , until they got the zephyr . 
Accordingly , he directed all the sails to be hauled up , an awning to be spread over the quarter-deck , and permission was given to the people to attend to their own affairs . 
`` Well , Mr. Griffin , a d -- d pretty scrape is this , into which you have led me , among you , with your wish to go boating about after luggers , and Raoul Yvards ! 
What will the admiral say , when he comes to hear of twenty-two men 's being laid on the shelf , and a felucca to be paid for , as a morning 's amusement ? '' 
Fortunately , for her , this struggle was very short , Raoul having kept her in profound ignorance of the approach of any danger , until the instant le Feu-Follet commenced her fire . 
In addition to these advantages , the result removed all apprehension from the only source of danger that Raoul thought could exist , as between his own vessel and the frigate ; or a boat-attack in a calm ; for men who had just been so roughly handled in an enterprise so well concealed , would not be likely to renew the attempt while they still smarted under the influence of the late repulse . 
Raoul had placed himself on a gun-slide , near her , and Ithuel was busy within a few feet of them , dissecting a spy-glass , with a view to clean its lenses . 
`` I suppose , the most excellent Andrea Barrofaldi will sing a Te Deum for his escape from our fangs , '' suddenly exclaimed Raoul , laughing . 
`` And you , Raoul , have you no occasion for a Te Deum , after your escape ? '' 
As Ithuel had often heard Raoul 's opinions on this subject , and knew the prevailing state of France , in this particular , he neither felt nor expressed any surprise at the question . 
Still , the idea ran counter to all his own notions and prejudices , he having been early taught to respect religion , even when he was most serving the devil . 
exclaimed Raoul -- `` I pretend to none , mon brave ; there can be no likeness to nothing . '' 
Raoul , this it is which misleads and betrays you , '' returned the girl , earnestly . 
`` Faith , and a meek dependence , is what makes a proper state of feeling ; and yet you demand a reason of Him who created the universe , and breathed into you the breath of life ! '' 
`` Are we not reasoning creatures , Ghita , '' returned Raoul , gently , and yet with a sincerity and truth , for the circumstances , that rendered even his scepticism piquant and respectable ; `` and is it unreasonable to expect us to act up to our natures ? 
Raoul was mute , while Ithuel stared . 
Raoul was too observant of the rules of propriety to think of following ; but he sat moody and lost in thought , until Ithuel drew his attention to himself . 
But Raoul was in no humour to converse ; and as the hour had now arrived when the zephyr was to be expected , he rose , ordered the awning taken in , and prepared to make himself master of the state of things around him . 
Notwithstanding her careless appearance , so closely had she been tended , for the last few hours , however , and so sedulously had even the smallest breath of air been improved , that Raoul started with surprise , when he found how much nearer she was than when he had last looked at her . 
The whole trick was apparent to him , at a glance ; and he was compelled to acknowledge his own remissness , when he perceived that he lay within the reach of the shot of this powerful foe ; though still so distant as to render her aim a little uncertain ; more especially should a sea get up . 
said Raoul , to Ithuel , as both stood on the heel of the bowsprit , looking curiously at the scene : `` sea , land , mountains , bourgeois and mariners all dozing . 
Raoul had a proof into what dangerous proximity to the frigate he had got , by the sound of the calls on board her ; and the stillness of the sea was yet so great , that the creaking of her fore-yard was actually audible to him , as the English rounded in their braces briskly , while laying their fore-top-sail aback . 
Raoul whistled for the wind , and the lugger moved ahead , gliding towards the frigate . 
But , in half a minute , she had gathered sufficient way , her helm was put down , and she came round as easily and as gracefully as the bird turns on his wing . 
Then it was that Raoul came out , in his true colours . 
He knew he could not spare a stitch of canvass just at that moment , but , that on the next ten minutes depended every thing . 
Of this truth , Raoul was soon persuaded , the Proserpine beginning to work both her bow-guns , as soon as she came to the wind , though neither exactly bore ; the shot of one ranging a little to windward , and the other about as much on the other side . 
So far , things went better than Raoul had reason , at first , to hope , though he well knew that the crisis was yet to come . 
The westerly wind often blew fresh at that period of the day , and should it now increase he would require all his canvass to get clear of a ship with the known qualities of the vessel in chase . 
How much longer his mast or his main-yard would stand he did not know , but as he was fast gaining , he determined to make hay while the sun shone , and get far enough ahead , if possible , before the breeze grew fresh , to enable him to shift his sails and fish his spars , without being again brought within the reach of visiters as rude as those who had so lately come hurtling into his thin hamper . 
Men were sent aloft to do what they could , under the circumstances , with the two spars ; and the strain was a little relieved by keeping the lugger as much away , as might be done without enabling the frigate to set her studding sails . 
It would have been more favourable to le Feu-Follet to have had less wind than even now blew , since her relative rate of sailing was greater in light than in strong breezes . 
Raoul knew , from Ithuel 's statements , that the Proserpine was an exceedingly fast ship , more especially when it blew fresh ; and yet it did not appear to him that his lugger got along with sufficient speed , though his enemy would be certain to follow at a rate of sailing in a just proportion to his own , did there come more wind . 
At first , Raoul had thought he might fetch into Bastia , which lies due-west of the southern end of Elba ; but though the wind drew a little down through the canal , it soon blew too fresh to allow any formation of the land materially to alter its current . 
This would have enabled the lugger to lay her course for a deep bay on which lies the town of Biguglia , could she have been jammed up on a wind , as might usually have been done ; but , a few minutes of experiment convinced Raoul that he must be more tender on his wounded spars , and keep off for the mouth of the Golo . 
This was a river of some size into which it was possible for a vessel of a light draught to enter ; and , as there stood a small battery near the anchorage , he determined to seek shelter in that haven , in order to repair his damages . 
His calculations were made accordingly , and , taking the snow-clad peaks in the neighbourhood of Corte as his land-marks , he ordered the lugger to be steered in the proper direction . 
A dozen Raoul Yvards would n't lead me into such a d -- d scrape , again ! '' 
It was not a gale , at all , nor did it induce either party to think of reefing ; for , no trifle would have done that , under the circumstances ; but it caused the Proserpine to furl her fore and mizzen-top-gallant-sails , and put Raoul in better humour with the loss of his jigger . 
When fairly round the headland , and , at a moment when he fancied the frigate would be compelled to tack , the latter had seized an opportunity to get in his foresail , to unbend it , and to bend and set a new one ; an operation that took just four minutes , by the watch . 
He would have tried the same experiment with the other lugg , but the mast was scarce worth the risk , and he thought the holes might act as reefs , and thus diminish the strain . 
But the formation of the coast , itself , had now become plain , and Raoul , an hour before the sun disappeared , had noted his landmarks , by which to make for the river he intended to enter . 
But , Raoul had once anchored in its mouth , and he deemed it the very spot in which to elude his enemy . 
It had shoals off its embouchure ; and these , he rightly enough fancied , would induce Captain Cuffe to be wary . 
The spars had all stood , and Raoul no longer hesitated about trusting his wounded mainmast with a new yard and sail . 
The superiority of the lugger , in sailing , was now so great , as to put it out of all question that she was not to be overtaken in the chase ; and Raoul , at one time , actually thought of turning up along the land , and going into Bastia , where he might even provide himself with a new mainmast , at need . 
But this idea , on reflection , he abandoned , as too hazardous ; and he continued on , in the direction of the mouth of the Golo . 
The same was the fact with le Feu-Follet , though Raoul had run up the tri-colour , as he opened on the felucca , and he kept it flying as long as there was any appearance of hostilities . 
Corsica was then , again , in the hands of the French , the temporary and imperfect possession of the English having terminated three or four years earlier ; and Raoul felt certain of a welcome anywhere in the island , and of protection wherever it could be offered . 
It appeared to Raoul , and those with him in his little craft , that the English seized these insignificant vessels solely with a wish for vengeance , since it was not usual for ships of the force of the Proserpine to turn aside to molest the poor fishermen and coasters . 
A few execrations followed , quite as a matter of course , but the intricacy of the channel and the necessity of having all his eyes about him ; soon drove every other thought from the mind of the dashing privateersman , but such as were connected with the care and safety of his own vessel . 
She had chosen a berth sufficiently within the shallow water to be safe from the guns of the frigate , though scarcely within the river . 
The Proserpine manifested no intention to give up her pursuit ; for she , too , came off the outlet , and brought up with one of her bowers , about two miles to-seaward of the lugger . 
She seemed to have changed her mind as to the coasters , having let both proceed , after a short detention ; though , it falling calm , neither was enabled to get any material distance from her , until the land breeze should rise . 
In these positions , the belligerents prepared to pass the night , each party taking the customary precautions as to his ground tackle , and each clearing up the decks and going through the common routine of duty , as regularly as if he lay in a friendly port . 
Such was the hour when Raoul anchored ; and Ghita , who had come on deck , now that the chase was over , and the danger was thought to be past , fancied she had never seen her own Italy , or the blue Mediterranean , more lovely . 
As she now lay , at single anchor , just out of gun-shot from his own berth , Raoul could not avoid gazing at her with envy , and a bitter feeling passed through his mind , when he recalled the chances of fortune and of birth , which deprived him of the hope of ever rising to the command of such a frigate , but which doomed him , seemingly , to the fate of a privateersman for life . 
It was with Raoul , as it had been with his country -- each was the creature of circumstances ; and if the man had some of the faults , he had also most of the merits of his nation and his age . 
The looseness on the subject of religion , which was his principal defect in the eyes of Ghita , but which could scarcely fail to be a material one , with a girl educated and disposed as was the case with our heroine , was the error of the day , and with Raoul it was , at least , sincere ; a circumstance that rendered him , with one so truly pious as the gentle being he loved , the subject of a holy interest , which , in itself , almost rivalled the natural tenderness of her sex , in behalf of the object of her affections . 
While the short engagement with the boats lasted , and during the few minutes he was under the fire of the frigate , Raoul had been himself ; the excitement of actual war always nerving him to deeds worthy of his command , and the high name he had acquired ; but , throughout the remainder of the day , he had felt little disposed to strife . 
The chase , once assured that his spars were likely to stand , gave him little concern ; and now that he was at anchor within the shallow water , he felt much as the traveller who has found a comfortable inn , after the fatigue of a hard day 's ride . 
Raoul was in the habit of exacting much of his men , in moments of necessity ; but , at all other times , he was as indulgent as a kind father , among obedient and respectful children . 
This quality , and the never-varying constancy and coolness that he displayed in danger , was the secret of his great influence with them ; every seaman under his orders feeling certain , that no severe duty was required at his hands , without a corresponding necessity for it . 
She sat on the taffrail , with her uncle standing at her side , while Raoul paced the quarter-deck , stopping , in his turn , to utter some thought , or wish , to ears that were always attentive . 
Raoul felt the influence of all these circumstances in an unusual degree . 
It disposed him to more sobriety of thought than always attended his leisure moments , and he took a seat on the taffrail , near Ghita , while her uncle went below , to his knees and his prayers . 
The situation of this felucca , and the circumstance that she had been boarded by the frigate , rendered her an object of some distrust with Raoul , through the early part of the evening , and he had ordered a vigilant eye to be kept on her ; but nothing had been discovered to confirm these suspicions . 
The movements of her people -- the manner in which she brought-up -- the quiet that prevailed on board her , and even the lubberly disposition of her spars and rigging , went to satisfy Raoul that she had no man-of-war 's men on board her . 
Still , as she lay less than a mile outside of the lugger , though now dead to leeward all that distance , she was to be watched ; and one of the seamen , he in the rigging , rarely had his eyes off her , a minute at a time . 
After looking around him several minutes , in silence , Raoul turned his face upward , and gazed at the stars . 
`` You probably do not know , Ghita , '' he said , `` the use those stars may be , and are , to us mariners . 
`` That is a new thought , to me , '' answered Ghita , quickly , her tender nature , at once , struck with the feeling and poetry of such an idea ; `` that is a new thought , to me , Raoul ; and I wonder you never mentioned it before . 
`` That is a question you might put to yourself , Raoul ; all I have ever heard of lovers , and love , having come from your own lips . '' 
Raoul 's protestations never fell dead on her heart ; and few things were sweeter , to her ear , than his words , as they declared his devotedness and passion . 
The frankness with which he admitted his delinquencies , and most especially the want of that very religious sentiment which was of so much value in the eyes of his mistress , gave an additional weight to his language , when he affirmed his love . 
`` Look at them , Raoul ; -- count them we can not , for they seem to start out of the depths of heaven , one after another , as the eye rests upon the space , until they mock our efforts at calculation . 
`` Who has said that God is a being , in our shape and form , Raoul ? 
None know that -- none canknow it ; none sayit , who reverence and worship him as they ought ! '' 
`` Nay , not so , dear Raoul , but in the image of his spirit -- that man hath a soul which partakes , though in a small degree , of the imperishable essence of God ; and thus far doth he exist in his image . 
`` Nay , Raoul , it is notthy way of thinking , but thy fashion of talking , that makes the difference between us . 
`` And why not as well suppose that it is a being that does all this , Raoul , as to suppose it what you call a principle ? '' 
`` True , Raoul , to a certain extentthou canst ; and it is precisely because thou hast been created after the image of God . 
Ghita had no philosophy , in the common acceptation of the term , while Raoul fancied he had much , under the limitations of a deficient education ; and yet the strong religious sentiment of the girl so quickened her faculties , that he had often been made to wonder why she had seemingly the best of the argument , on a subject in which he flattered himself with being so strong . 
`` I rather think , Ghita , we scarcely understand each other , '' answered Raoul . 
`` You have only to fancy your principle a spirit , a being with mind , Raoul , to have the Christian God . 
I fear to speak to you of revelation , Raoul , for I know you mock it ! '' 
`` I could thank thee for this , Raoul , but I feel it would be taking to myself a homage that ought to be paid elsewhere . 
`` Raoul , I do . 
While she was now singing this well-known hymn , a holy hope pervaded her moral system , that , in some miraculous manner , she might become the agent of turning Raoul to the love and worship of God ; and the feeling communicated itself to her execution . 
`` If anything could make me a believer , Ghita , '' murmured Raoul , when the last strain had died on the lips of his beloved , `` it would be to listen to thy melody ! 
Raoul pressed the hand of Ghita , and whispered her to go below , as he was fearful the air of the night might injure her . 
He then went forward , where he could command as good a view of the felucca , in-shore , as the obscurity of the hour permitted ; and he felt a little uneasiness , when he found how near she had got to the lugger . 
When he last noted her position , this vessel was quite half-a-mile distant , and appeared to be crossing the bows of le Feu-Follet , with sufficient wind to have carried her a mile ahead , in the interval ; yet could he not perceive that she had advanced as far , in that direction , as she had drifted down upon the lugger , the while . 
he demanded of the New-Hampshire-man . 
Raoul did as the other desired , and , after a short trial , he found that the coaster had no perceptible motion ahead , while , it was certain , she was drifting down with the current , directly athwart the lugger 's hawse . 
This fact satisfied him that she must have drags astern ; a circumstance that , at once , denoted a hostile intention . 
The enemy was probably on board the felucca , in force ; and it was incumbent on him to make immediate preparations for defence . 
Still , Raoul was reluctant to disturb his people . 
Like all firm and cool men , he was averse to the parade of a false alarm ; and it seemed so improbable that the lesson of the morning was so soon forgotten , that he could hardly persuade himself to believe his senses . 
Under all the circumstances , he determined , first , to hail ; knowing that his crew could be got up in a minute , and that they slept with arms at their sides , under an apprehension that a boat attack might possibly be attempted , in the course of the night . 
was the answer , in a patois , half French , half Italian , as Raoul expected , if all were right . 
We will keep away , if you please , and pass you under your stern -- '' This proposition was made so suddenly , and so unexpectedly , that Raoul had not time to object ; and , had he been disposed to do so , the execution was too prompt to allow him the means . 
cried Raoul , springing aft to the capstan , and seizing his own arms -- `` Come up lively , mes enfans ! 
These words were hardly uttered before Raoul was back on the heel of the bowsprit , and the most active of his men -- some five or six , at most -- began to show themselves on deck . 
In that brief space , the felucca had got within eighty yards , when , to the surprise of all in the lugger , she luffed into the wind , again , and drifted down , until it was apparent that she was foul of the lugger 's cable , her stern swinging round directly on the latter 's starboard bow . 
At that instant , or just as the two vessels came in actual contact , and Raoul 's men were thronging around him , to meet the expected attack , the sounds of oars , pulled for life or death , were heard , and flames burst upward from the open hatch of the coaster . 
Raoul , himself , passed into the felucca , followed by the three men he had selected by name . 
As Raoul suspected , his cable had been grappled ; and , seizing the rope , he tightened it to a severe strain , securing the in-board part . 
Then he passed down to the cable , himself , directing his companions to hand him the rope-end of the shank-painter , which he fastened to the cable by a jamming hitch . 
This took half-a-minute ; in half-a-minute more , he was on the felucca 's forecastle , again . 
To pass the fire , on the return , was now a serious matter ; but it was done without injury , Raoul driving his companions before him . 
No sooner did his foot reach the bows of le Feu-Follet , again , than he shouted -- `` Veer away ! 
Raoul 's voice was not heard , except in the few orders mentioned ; and when , by the glaring light , which illuminated all in the lugger and the adjacent water to some distance , nearly to the brightness of noon-day , he saw Ghita gazing at the spectacle in awed admiration and terror , he went to her , and spoke as if the whole were merely a brilliant spectacle , devised for their amusement . 
`` Our girandola is second only to that of St. Peter 's , '' he said , smiling . 
`` And you have been the agent of his goodness , Raoul ; I have witnessed all , from this spot . 
Every anxious and curious face in the lugger was to be seen , under that brilliant light , turned toward the glowing mass , as the sun-flower follows the great source of heat , in his track athwart the heavens ; while the spars , sails , guns , and even the smallest object on board the lugger , started out of the obscurity of night , into the brightness of such an illumination , as if composing parts of some brilliant scenic display . 
But for the sagacity and uneasiness of Ithuel , the plan would altogether have escaped detection ; and , but for the coolness , courage , and resources of Raoul , it would infallibly have succeeded , notwithstanding the suspicions that had been excited . 
As for Griffin , he pulled in-shore , both to avoid the fire of le Feu-Follet , in passing her broadside , and in the hope of intercepting Raoul , while endeavouring to escape in a boat . 
He even went to a landing in the river , quite a league from the anchorage , and waited there until long past midnight , when , finding the night beginning to cloud over , and the obscurity to increase , he returned to the frigate , giving the smouldering wreck a wide berth , for fear of accidents . 
Instead of avoiding the narrow pass between the two islands , Raoul glided boldly into it ; and , by keeping vigilant eyes on his fore-yard , to apprize him of danger , he succeeded in making two stretches , in the strait itself , coming out to the southward , on the starboard tack , handsomely clearing the end of the islet , at the very instant the frigate appeared on the other side of the pass . 
This advantage Raoul did not overlook , and Cuffe had gone about twice , closing , each time , nearer and nearer to the islet , before he was satisfied that his guns would be of no service , until he could , at least , weather the intervening object ; after which they would most probably be useless , in so light a wind , by the distance between them and their enemy . 
The Proserpine was put about , again ; and , setting her ensign , she stood into the bay of Porto Ferrajo ; anchoring quite near the place that Raoul had selected for the same purpose , on two previous occasions . 
again exclaimed Cuffe , when this new offence of Raoul 's was explained to him . 
Between Raoul and Ghita , there had been no reserves , on the subject of parentage ; and the former understood why his mistress was here , as well as the motive that brought her . 
For this , however , Raoul was much too wary , nothing resembling his little craft being visible . 
Still , the Foudroyant lay a little without the circle of boats ; and in that direction Raoul had pulled , to avoid the throng , resting on his oars , when about a third of a cable 's - length from the British admiral 's stern . 
The brief interval was passed , by Ghita , in telling her beads , while Carlo joined in the prayers , with the devotion of a zealot . 
It is scarcely necessary to say , that all this Raoul witnessed without faith , though it would be doing injustice to his nature , as well as to his love for Ghita , to say he did so without sympathy . 
With these preparations Raoul was familiar , and his understanding eye saw the particular rope that was so soon to deprive Ghita of her grandfather ; though it was lost to her and her uncle , among the maze of rigging by which it was surrounded . 
Raoul 's boat was within fifty yards of that very gangway , and he turned his head in idle curiosity , to see who might descend into the gig that was lying at the foot of the long flight of steps . 
Then it was that Raoul , to his surprise , discovered that the two civilians were no other than Andrea Barrofaldi , and Vito Viti , who had accompanied Cuffe and Griffin , their companions in the gig , on a cruise ; of which the express object was to capture himself and his vessel . 
Raoul muttered a `` sacr-r-re , '' between his teeth , but he succeeded in suppressing all outward expression of feeling . 
Raoul , and all the rest , bent their gaze in the same direction . 
-LSB- 6 -RSB- As for Ghita , she disappeared , no one knew how ; Vito Viti , and his companions , being too much absorbed with the scene , to note the tender and considerate manner in which Raoul rowed her off from a spectacle that could but be replete with horrors , to one so situated . 
When he left the crowd of boats , Raoul pulled towards the rocks which bound the shores of the bay , near the gardens of Portici . 
`` I will not ask you , Raoul , why you are here , at a moment like this , and whence you have come , '' she said ; `` but I may ask whither you are now carrying us ? 
`` The pitcher that goes often to the well , Raoul , gets broken at last , '' said Ghita , a little reproachfully , though it surpassed her power to prevent the tones of tenderness from mingling with her words . 
Ghita was not surprised , either at the reproaches of her suitor , or at his perseverance ; and her conscience told her he uttered but the truth , in attributing to her the motives he had , in urging her uncle to make their recent change of residence ; for , while a sense of duty had induced her to quit the towers , her art was not sufficient to suggest the expediency of going to any other abode than that which she was accustomed to inhabit periodically , and about which Raoul knew , from her own innocent narrations , nearly as much as she knew herself . 
`` I can say no more than I have said , already , '' the thoughtful girl answered , after Raoul had begun again to row . 
exclaimed Raoul , bitterly . 
`` Better to take one of your own nation and opinion , Raoul , than risk your happiness with a stranger ; who might not answer all your hopes , when you came to know her better . '' 
-- Remember , Raoul , that your men will begin to complain , if you place them too often in such risks , to gratify your own wishes . '' 
`` The Bay of Napoli is large , Ghita , '' returned Raoul , laughing ; `` and le Feu-Follet takes but little room . 
`` Still , where there are so many vigilant eyes , there is always danger , Raoul ! 
I have always found , if I wished to be unnoticed , it was best to get into a crowd ; whereas , he who lives in a village , lives in open day-light . 
This man was examining them , as they approached ; and , recognising Raoul , he was gathering in his lines , and preparing to raise his grapnel . 
A very few words sufficed to let the American into all that it was necessary he should know , when the whole party made its arrangements to depart . 
The skiff which Raoul , having found it lying on the beach , had made free with , without leave , he anchored , in the full expectation that its right owner might find it , some day or other ; while its cargo was transferred to the yawl , which was one of the lugger 's own attendants . 
The latter was a light , swift-pulling little boat , admirably constructed , and fit to live in a sea-way ; requiring , moreover , but two good oars , one of which Raoul undertook to pull , himself , while Ithuel managed the other . 
The present occasion , too , was one likely to set everything in motion ; and Raoul judged rightly , when he thought himself less likely to be observed in such a scene , than on a smaller and less-frequented water . 
All this both Raoul and Ithuel knew and felt ; and , once in motion , in their yawl , they experienced a sense of security , that , for the four or five previous hours , had not always existed . 
By this time , the sun was low , though it was possible , as Raoul perceived , to detect the speck that was still swinging at the Minerva 's fore-yard-arm ; a circumstance to which the young man , with considerate feeling , refrained from adverting . 
Raoul did not exert himself , at the oar ; and , as he sat aft , his companion was obliged to take the stroke from his movement . 
It was so pleasant to have Ghita with him , on his own element , that he never hurried himself , while in the enjoyment of her society . 
The conversation , it will readily be imagined , was not lively ; but the saddened melancholy of Ghita 's voice , as she occasionally hazarded a remark of her own , or answered one of his questions , sounded sweeter , in his ears , than the music of the ships ' bands , that was now wafted to them across the water . 
When the latter was about two-thirds of the distance across the bay , the frigate caught the stronger current , that came down athwart the campagna , between Vesuvius and the mountains behind Castel à Mare , when she drove ahead fast . 
Her sails , as seamen express it , were all asleep ; or swelled outward , without collapsing ; and her rate of sailing was between five and six miles in the hour . 
This brought them up with the boat , hand-over-hand , as it is called ; and Ghita , at Raoul 's request , put the helm aside , in order that they might get out of the way of the huge body that was approaching . 
It would seem that there was some design , on the part of the ship , in coming so near , for she made a sheer towards the yawl , in a way to frighten the timid helmswoman , and to induce her to relinquish her hold of her tiller . 
As he used the line with proper dexterity , the yawl was soon towing on the quarter of the frigate ; Raoul taking the helm , and giving the boat the sheer necessary to prevent her dragging in , alongside . 
`` Fear nothing , dearest , '' answered Raoul , `` they can not suspect us ; and we may learn something useful by being here . 
`` S'nore , si ; '' answered Raoul , adopting the patois of the country , as well as he could , and disguising his deep mellow voice , by speaking on a high shrill key . 
`` Raoul ! '' 
said Ghita , as if reproaching him for an indiscretion . 
`` Ah , Raoul , it is a sad life , that renders untruths necessary ! '' 
Raoul , do not think of this rash act , '' whispered Ghita ; `` the vice-governatore , or the podestâ , will recollect you ; and then all will be lost ! '' 
Raoul then whispered a few words to Ithuel , when , the boat being , by this time , far enough ahead , he gave it a sheer alongside of the ship , seized a man-rope , and went up the cleets as actively as a cat . 
`` S'nori , '' rejoined Raoul , `` it shall be just as your eccellenzi say . 
Raoul started , and gave thanks , mentally , that he had come on board , as this statement showed that his enemies had received only too accurate information of his recent movements . 
He had hopes , however , of being able , yet , to change their intentions , and to put them on a wrong scent . 
`` S'nori , '' he said , `` I should like to know who it is that mistakes south-east for north-west . 
interrupted Raoul , with a well-acted assumption of vulgar triumph ; `` I knew , your eccellenza , when you came to look into it , would see the folly of saying that a vessel , which was standing from Capri towards Ischia , was going on any other course than north-west ! '' 
`` I thought I had said , eccellenza , that she was heading across towards Ischia , '' answered Raoul , with an air of obtuse innocence . 
Raoul inwardly muttered a malediction on all priests ; a class of men , which , rightly enough , he believed to be united in their hostility to France . 
But , it would not do to express this , in his assumed character ; and he affected to listen , as one of his class ought to give ear , to a fact that came from his spiritual father . 
asked Cuffe , a good deal mystified by Raoul 's artifice , and his assumed simplicity . 
-- '' `` Raoul , Captain Cuffe ; Raoul Yvard is his name . ' 
-- Raoul , means Rodolph . '' 
`` Sa-c-r-r-r-e , '' muttered Raoul , in a tone that he endeavoured to suppress , and which was inaudible , to all ears , but those of Andrea Barrofaldi ; the vice-governatore happening to stand nearer his person , just at that moment , than any other of the party . 
muttered Raoul , quite unconscious he was overheard . 
All this time Andrea Barrofaldi and Vito Viti were profoundly ignorant of what was passing between the two officers , though Raoul listened eagerly , and so well understood every syllable they uttered . 
Until this moment , the vice-governatore had been rather indifferent and inattentive , as to what occurred ; but the two exclamations of Raoul , awakened a vague distrust in his mind , which , while it had no direct object , was certainly pregnant with serious consequences to the Frenchman himself . 
But for Raoul 's indiscreet exclamations , however , nothing probably would have come of these indistinct fancies ; and we are to refer all that followed to those unguarded out-breakings of the Frenchman 's humour , rather than to any very clear process of ratiocination on the part of the vice-governatore . 
Raoul was offered the former . 
During the momentous five minutes occupied in these private movements , Raoul affected to be gaping about in vulgar astonishment , examining the guns , rigging , ornaments of the quarter-deck , & c. ; though , in truth , nothing that passed among those near him , escaped his vigilant attention . 
He was uneasy at the signs of the times , and now regretted his own temerity ; but still he thought his incognito must be impenetrable . 
Like most persons , who fancy they speak a foreign language well , he was ignorant , too , in how many little things he betrayed himself ; the Englishman , cæteris paribus , usually pronouncing the Italian better than the Frenchman , on account of the greater affinity between his native language and that of Italy , in what relates to emphasis and sounds . 
Raoul observed , as he descended the ladder , to comply with what sounded very much like an order , that he was followed by the two Elban functionaries . 
The cabin-lamp was trimmed , and the privateersman found himself under a strong light , as soon as he had crossed the threshold of the apartment . 
For an instant , Raoul wished that it was a portion of the Holy Inquisition , rather than the tribunal before which he now found himself so unexpectedly arraigned . 
Raoul knew this , and he felt he was aiding in unmasking himself , by complying ; but he thought there might be greater danger , should he refuse to assume the kerchief . 
`` Your eccellenza is making a prince , of a very humble boatman , '' he said , when his neck was fairly enveloped ; `` and my wife will think some great general is coming , when I enter the door . '' 
`` To help the delusion , friend , wear this , also , '' continued Griffin , throwing the other one of his own undress uniform coats , his stature and that of Raoul being very nearly the same . 
The true state of the case was now getting to be somewhat unequivocal ; nevertheless , as steadiness and compliance were his only hopes , Raoul did as desired , and stood with all his upper man decorated in an English naval undress uniform , while the nether remained à la lazzarone . 
`` Messieurs , '' said Raoul , stripping himself of his borrowed plumes , `` it is too late to feign , any longer . 
`` Sa Majesté Britannique has not made a conquest equal to his success at the Nile , '' returned Raoul , ironically ; `` but he has me in his hands . 
repeated Raoul , starting ; `` that is an office I never contemplated , Monsieur , on coming on board your ship . 
`` Gentlemen , '' said Raoul , in English , `` there is no longer any occasion for an interpreter between us ; I speak your language sufficiently well to make myself understood . '' 
returned Raoul , smiling ironically ; `` but , messieurs , words are idle , now ; I am your prisoner , and must take my chance with you . 
`` I have sent up to beg Mr. Winchester would get these people on board -- '' `` There is a young woman , in the boat , who is unaccustomed to entering ships , '' interrupted Raoul , hastily , `` and I implore your tenderness , in her behalf . 
In a few minutes , a soldier was introduced into the forward cabin , and Raoul was regularly placed under his charge . 
All this time , Ithuel , and his companions in the yawl , were left to their own reflections , which were anything but agreeable . 
The frigate had towed them along at a rate , which , as Raoul had said , had brought them quite abreast of their landing , and within a league of it ; and yet she showed no signs of an intention to abate her speed , nor did any one appear at the gangway , to speak to them . 
Ghita was in tears ; but , uncertain how far Raoul was committed , she struggled for self-command , and did succeed in suppressing emotions that might , otherwise , have rendered his situation more dangerous . 
Raoul was sent below , and put in a canvass state-room , the arms having been removed , even to the razors , and a sentinel placed at the door . 
Raoul being well provided with all the materials for a masquerade , this had been effected by putting a black curling wig over his own lank , sandy hair , colouring his whiskers and eye-brows , and trusting the remainder to the transformation which might be produced by the dress , or rather undress , of a Neapolitan waterman . 
Now , the queue had undergone its hebdomadal combing just an hour before Raoul announced his intention to proceed to Naples in the yawl , and it would have been innovating on the only thing that Ithuel treated with reverence , to undo the work until another week had completed its round . 
Now , Andrea had been struck with this peculiarity about the tones of the American 's voice , in the interview at Benedetta 's wine-house ; and the whole connection between Raoul and this singular person being associated in his mind , the truth flashed on him , as it might be , at a glance . 
His previous success that night had emboldened the worthy vice-governatore , and , without any remark , he walked steadily up to Ithuel , removed the wig , and permitted the eel-skin queue to resume its natural position down the back of its owner . 
He reported the capture of Raoul , explaining the mode , and the circumstances under which that celebrated privateersman had fallen into his hands . 
Raoul having admitted his knowledge of English , no interpreter was sworn , but the proceedings were had in the usual manner . 
Raoul fully understood his situation . 
Although he certainly had not entered the Bay of Naples with any of the ordinary views of a spy , he was aware how far he had committed himself , and foresaw the readiness with which his enemies would destroy him , could they find the legal means of so doing . 
`` And all these honourable officers well know , '' observed Raoul , ironically , `` that a felucca-lugger , and a lugger , such as le Feu-Follet is understood to be , are very different things . 
Raoul smiled , for he was confident this notion proceeded principally from the self-illusion of the two Italians , themselves ; the little he had said on the subject , having been drawn out more by their suggestions than by any design on his part . 
Still , he did not deem it prudent to contradict the podestâ , who , as yet , had testified to nothing that could possibly criminate him . 
`` If a young man has the vanity to wish to be thought noble , '' answered Raoul , calmly , `` it may prove his folly , but it does not prove him a spy . 
`` Good , '' continued Raoul ; `` and now tell these officers , Signore Podestâ , if you can say , on your oath , that I had anything to do with that felucca , ze Ving-and-Ving , at all . '' 
Raoul felt that this was a direct blow ; still , it wanted the connecting link to make it testimony . 
Raoul started , for the idea of the American 's being brought forward in this capacity , had never occurred to him . 
In a minute Ithuel appeared , was sworn , and took his place at the foot of the table . 
Raoul breathed easier ; for , to own the truth , he had not much confidence in Ithuel 's constancy , or disinterestedness ; and he apprehended that he had been purchased , with the promise of a pardon for himself . 
In the private discourse that followed , Cuffe stated all that had occurred , the manner in which Raoul had been identified , and the probabilities -- nay , moral certainties of the case . 
At the same time , he was forced to allow , that he possessed no direct evidence that the lugger he had chased was a Frenchman at all , and least of all le Feu-Follet . 
It is true , she had worn the French flag , but she had also worn the English , and the Proserpine had done the same thing . 
To be sure , the lugger had foughtunder the drapeau tricolor , which might be taken as a strong circumstance against her ; but it was not absolutely conclusive , for the circumstances might possibly justify deception to the last moment ; and he admitted that the frigate , herself , had appearedto fire at the batteries , under the same ensign . 
The case was allowed to be embarrassing ; and , while no one really doubted the identity of Raoul , those who were behind the curtains greatly feared they might be compelled to adjourn the trial for want of evidence , instead of making an immediate sentence the means of getting possession of the lugger , as had been hoped . 
Raoul started , and a shade of deep concern passed over his face ; but he soon recovered , and seemed unmoved . 
She cast a glance of tender concern at Raoul ; but the novelty of her situation , and the awful character of an oath to one of her sensitive conscience and utter inexperience , soon drew her attention entirely to the scene more immediately before her . 
`` You say that you know this , of your own knowledge , '' resumed the Judge Advocate -- `` Messieurs , '' said Raoul , rising , `` will you grant me leave to speak ? 
But the girl had taken the alarm , from the countenance of Raoul , although she did not understand what had passed in English ; and she was reluctant to quit the place in ignorance . 
`` Have I said aught to injure thee , Raoul ? '' 
On another occasion , national antipathy and national prejudice might have caused the rest of the court to smile at this sally ; but there was an earnestness and sincerity in the manner and countenance of Raoul , which , if they did not command entire belief , at least , commanded respect . 
`` I am a Frenchman , Monsieur , and I serve my country , '' answered Raoul , with dignity . 
`` Messieurs , there is little more to be said , '' answered Raoul . 
Raoul hesitated . 
He did not doubt that Ghita , she whose testimony had just proved so serious a matter against him , would testify that she believedsuch was alone his motive ; and this , too , in a way , and with corroborative circumstances , that would carry weight with them , more particularly as she could testify that he had done the same thing before , in the Island of Elba , and was even in the practice of paying her flying visits at Monte Argentaro . 
Nevertheless , Raoul felt a strong reluctance to have Ghita again brought before the court . 
With the jealous sensitiveness of true love , he was averse to subjecting its object to the gaze and comments of the rude of his own sex ; then he knew his power over the feelings of the girl , and had too much sensibility not to enter into all the considerations that might influence a man on a point so delicate ; and he could not relish the idea of publicly laying bare feelings that he wished to be as sacred to others , as they were to himself . 
A man who had sworn to so many false invoices , was not likely to stick at a trifle in order to serve a friend ; still , by denying the acquaintance , he might bring discredit on himself , and thus put it out of his power to be of use to Raoul on some more material point . 
As between himself and the Frenchman , there existed a remarkable moral discrepancy ; for , while he who prided himself on his religious ancestry and pious education , had a singularly pliable conscience , Raoul , almost an Atheist in opinion , would have scorned a simple lie , when placed in a situation that touched his honour . 
`` Why -- I somethink -- '' answered Ithuel , with a peculiar provincialism , that had a good deal of granite in it -- `` that is , I kind o ' conclude -- '' catching an assent from Raoul 's eye -- `` oh ! 
`` Etuelle , '' asked Raoul , `` do you not know that I love Ghita Caraccioli ? '' 
`` I left le Feu-Follet , Monsieur le Capitaine , '' Raoul calmly observed , `` not two cables ' length from the very spot where your own ship is now lying ; but it was at an hour of the night when the good people of Capri were asleep , and they knew nothing of our visit . 
`` It is unnecessary , '' again interposed Raoul . 
There was so much manliness and quiet dignity in Raoul 's deportment , that , whatever he said made an impression . 
His answer disposed of the matter , for the moment at least . 
When Raoul rose to speak , he felt a choking emotion ; but it soon left him , and he commenced in a steady , calm tone , his accent giving point and interest to many of his expressions . 
`` Messieurs , '' said he , `` I will not deny my name , my character , or my manner of life . 
The earnestness and nature with which Raoul spoke , were not without effect . 
Could he have had his will at that moment , he would have given Raoul his lugger , allowed the latter a sufficient start , and then gladly have commenced a chase round the Mediterranean , to settle all questions between them . 
As Raoul expected little else , he heard his doom with steadiness , bowing with dignity and courtesy to the court , as he was led away , to be placed in irons , as befitted one condemned . 
His case had several serious difficulties , and the orders allowed of a discretion . 
When the sentence on Raoul was pronounced , therefore , and the prisoner was removed , the court adjourned ; a boat being immediately despatched to the Foudroyant with a copy of the proceedings , for the rear-admiral 's approbation . 
The reader is not to suppose from this , that our captain was either vengeful or bloody-minded ; or that he really desired to inflict on Raoul any penalty for the manner in which he had baffled his own designs and caused his crew to suffer . 
So far from this , his intention was to use the sentence to extort from the prisoner a confession of the orders he had given to those left in the lugger , and then to use this confession as a means of obtaining his pardon , with a transfer to a prison-ship . 
Had Raoul belonged even to a republican navy , the English man-of-war 's - man might have hesitated about carrying out his plan ; but , with the master of a corsair , it appeared to be the most natural thing imaginable to attempt its execution . 
When Raoul quitted his vessel , he ordered her to stand directly off the land , just keeping Ischia and Capri in view , lying-to under her jigger . 
Monsieur Pintard , Raoul 's first-lieutenant , had expected a signal from his commander at the very spot where Clinch had taken his station ; but seeing none , he had swept along the coast , after dark , in the hope of discovering his position by the burning of a blue-light . 
Failing of this , however , he went off the land again , in time to get an offing before the return of day , and to save the wind . 
He had placed the prisoner between two open ports , where the air circulated freely , no trifling consideration in so warm a climate , and had ordered a canvass bulk-head to be placed around him , giving Raoul the benefit of a state-room for his meditations at so awful a moment . 
His irons , too , had been removed as useless ; though care had been had to take away from the prisoner everything by which he might attempt his own life . 
The probability of his jumping through a port had been discussed between the first and second lieutenants ; but the sentry was admonished to be on his guard against any such attempt , and little apprehension was felt , Raoul being so composed and so unlikely to do anything precipitately . 
Then it would be easy to pick him up , while the vessel moved so slowly . 
To own the truth , too , many would prefer his drowning himself , to seeing him swinging at a yard-arm . 
In this narrow prison , then , Raoul passed the night and morning . 
It would be representing him as more stoical than the truth , if we said he was unmoved . 
So far from this , his moments were bitter , and his anguish would have been extreme , were it not for a high resolution which prompted him to die , as he fancied it , like un Français . 
But , to a young man and a lover , the last great change could not well approach without bringing with it a feeling of hopelessness , that , in the case of Raoul , was unrelieved by any cheering expectations for the future . 
He fully believed his doom to be sealed , and that , less on account of his imaginary offence as a spy , than on account of the known and extensive injuries he had done to the English commerce . 
Raoul was a good hater ; and , according to the fashion of past times , which we apprehend , in spite of a vast deal of equivocal philanthropy that now circulates freely from mouth to mouth , and from pen to pen , will continue to be the fashion of times to come , he heartily disliked the people with whom he was at war , and consequently , was ready to believe anything to their prejudice that political rivalry might invent ; a frame of mind that led him to think his life would be viewed as a trifle , when put in the scales against English ascendency , or English profit . 
He was accustomed to think of the people of Great Britain as a `` nation of shop-keepers , '' and , while engaged himself in a calling that bears the brand of rapacity on its very brow , he looked upon his own pursuit as comparatively martial and honourable ; qualities , in sooth , it was far from being without , as he himself had exercised its functions . 
In a word , Raoul understood Cuffe , as little as Cuffe understood him ; facts that will sufficiently appear in the interview which it has now become our office to relate . 
Raoul adverted to this circumstance , as , seated on one stool , he invited Griffin , in the last of his visits , to take another . 
Raoul was touched with these indications of generosity , and , as he had witnessed Griffin 's spirit in the different attempts made on his lugger , it inclined him to think better of his foes . 
Raoul received it , however , in the most favourable light ; though the politic portion of the motive was altogether thrown away , as will be seen in the sequel . 
`` Monsieur , un Français knows how to die in the cause of liberty and his country , '' answered Raoul , courteously , yet with emphasis . 
Raoul declined the offer ; waiting for the forthcoming explanation with an interest he did not affect to conceal . 
`` His name is known to every seaman , Monsieur , '' answered Raoul , stiffly ; his natural antipathies being far from cured by the extremity of his situation . 
exclaimed Raoul , smiling ironically -- `` Nelson is not the only English admiral who has had the same desire . 
asked Raoul , gravely . 
`` Monsieur Nelson doubtless does no more than his duty , '' answered Raoul , quietly , but with an air of severe selfrespect . 
Had Raoul assumed a theatrical tone and manner , as might have been expected , probably it would have made very little impression on Cuffe ; but his quiet simplicity and steadiness carried conviction with them . 
At first he felt disposed to taunt Raoul with the contradiction between what he , Cuffe , conceived to be his general pursuits , and his present assumption of principles ; but , the unpretending calmness of the other 's manner , and the truth of his feelings , prevented it . 
`` Monsieur Cuffe , I pardon you , if you can pardon yourself , '' answered Raoul , with severe dignity in his manner , rising as he spoke , as if disdaining civilities which came from his tempter . 
`` Touchez-la , '' said Raoul , frankly extending his hand . 
Cuffe seized Raoul 's hand , and even a tear escaped him , as he squeezed it warmly . 
Cuffe now repeated his apologies ; and after a few expressions of friendly esteem on both sides , Raoul returned to his little room , declining the captain 's offer to occupy one of the cabin state-rooms . 
`` I make no doubt , Captain Cuffe , that Lord Nelson will give a respite , or even a pardon , were the facts fairly laid before him , '' observed Griffin , who felt a generous interest in preserving the life of Raoul , the very man he had endeavoured to destroy by fire only a few weeks before ; but such is the waywardness of man , and such are the mixed feelings generated by war . 
Still , the preservation of Raoul 's life , and the capture of the lugger , were now objects of nearly equal interest with Cuffe , and he felt disposed to neglect no plausible means of effecting either . 
Love for Raoul , or the lugger , or , indeed , for anything else , himself excepted , formed no part of his character ; while hatred of England had got to be incorporated with the whole of his moral system ; if such a man could be said to have a moral system at all . 
He saw nothing to be gained by serving Raoul , in particular ; though this he might have done did nothing interfere to prevent it ; while he had so strong an aversion to suffering the English to get le Feu-Follet , as to be willing even to risk his own life , in order to prevent it . 
His care , therefore , was to accomplish his purpose , with the least hazard to himself . 
he asked , with an air of interest . 
Now , this was not only precisely the position of the lugger at that very moment , but it was what Ithuel actually believed to be her position . 
As a matter of course , they were apprised of the condition of Raoul , and , both kind and benevolent men in the main , they were desirous of conversing with the prisoner , and of proving to him that they bore no malice . 
Raoul was their enemy , it is true , and he had been sincerely detested by all hands , eight-and-forty hours before ; but circumstances had entirely changed the ancient animosity into a more generous and manly sentiment . 
All these considerations , coupled with the reluctance that seamen ever feel to having an execution in their ship , had entirely turned the tables ; and there , where Raoul would have found so lately , between two and three hundred active and formidable enemies , he might almost be said now to have as many sympathizing friends . 
Raoul came on deck , in charge of the master-at-arms , and the officer who had acted as prevost-martial . 
Raoul was immediately led below . 
As he passed through the after-hatch , all the officers on the quarter-deck bowed to him ; and not a man was there in the ship , who did not feel the happier for the reprieve . 
Raoul Yvardwas indebted to a piece of forethought in Clinch , for his life . 
Andrea Barrofaldi , glad that his companion was momentarily appeased , now proceeded towards Raoul 's little prison , and was immediately admitted by the sentry , who had his orders to that effect . 
Winchester had directed that Raoul 's state-room should be supplied with every little convenience that his situation required , and , among other things , it had two common ship 's stools . 
Still , Raoul had neither lamp , nor candles ; and , though they had been offered him , he declined their use , as he had found stranger eyes occasionally peeping through the openings in the canvass , with the idle curiosity of the vulgar , to ascertain the appearance and employments of one condemned to die . 
He had experienced a good deal of annoyance from this feeling , the previous night ; and the same desire existing to see how a criminal could bear a respite , he had determined to pass his evening in obscurity . 
This brought the tackles , on one side , into the room ; and on one of these Raoul now took his seat . 
Andrea Barrofaldi , from his superior condition in life , as well as from his better education , and nicer natural tact , far surpassed his companion in courtesy of demeanour . 
The latter would have plunged in medias resat once , but the vice-governatore commenced a conversation on general matters , intending to offer his congratulations for the recent respite , when he conceived that a suitable occasion should offer . 
This was an unfortunate delay in one respect ; for Vito Viti no sooner found that the main object of the visit was to be postponed , than he turned with eagerness to the subject in discussion , which had been interrupted in order to enter the state-room . 
`` Here has the vice-governatore come forward with a theory , Sir Smees , '' he commenced , the moment a pause in the discourse left him an opening -- `` here has the vice-governatore come forward with a theory , that I insist the church would call damnable , and at which human nature revolts -- '' `` Nay , good Vito , thou dost not state the case fairly , '' interrupted Andrea , whose spirit was a little aroused at so abrupt an assault . 
exclaimed Raoul , smiling , and arousing to a sudden interest in the discourse ; `` did any English bishop ever broach such a doctrine ? 
Sir Smees , '' so the Italians called Raoul , out of courtesy , still , it being awkward for them , after all that had passed , to address him by his real name -- `` Sir Smees will excuse us , for a few minutes ; perhaps it may serve to amuse him , to hear to what a flight the imagination of a subtle-minded man can soar . '' 
Raoul civilly expressed the satisfaction it would give him to listen , and stretching himself on the gun-tackle , in order to be more at ease , he leaned back with his head fairly within the port , while his feet were braced against the inner truck of the gun-carriage . 
This threw him into a somewhat recumbent attitude , but it being understood as intended to render what was but an inconvenient seat at the best , tolerably comfortable , no one thought it improper . 
It is unnecessary for us to repeat , here , all that Andrea Barrofaldi thought proper to say , in his own justification , and in explanation of the celebrated theory of Bishop Berkely . 
Raoul , in fact , listened with no little amusement . 
At first , his voice was occasionally heard in the discussion , evidently aiming at exciting the disputants ; but the warmth of the latter soon silenced him , and he was fain to do nothing but listen . 
Raoul had too much self-command to betray his astonishment , but , in an instant , every faculty he possessed was on the alert . 
whispered Raoul , who perceived that his companions were too much occupied to observe his movements , or to hear his words . 
Raoul understood his respite to be a thing of doubtful termination . 
Under the most favourable results , an English prison remained in perspective , and then the other side of the picture offered the image of Ghita to his eye ! 
He was in a tumult of feeling , but , accustomed to self-command , still no exclamation escaped him . 
he asked , his whisper being tremulous , in spite of every effort to command himself . 
Raoul did hear the whistle of the boatswain , which was piping `` lower away , '' at that very moment . 
He listened intently , as he lay stretched upon the gun-tackles ; and then he heard the splash in the water , as the boat was hauled closer to , in order to be brought beneath the chair . 
Raoul understood the plan ; but , it struck him as hopeless . 
Raoul 's brain was in a whirl . 
Even the suppressed laughter of the officers on the outside of the canvass , was audible to him ; though the disputants could hear nothing but their own voices . 
Raoul could not see the water , as he lay with his head fairly in the port ; and he had to trust entirely to the single sense of hearing . 
Raoul raised his head and looked about him . 
That a group was collected around the state-room , he understood by the movements , the low conversation , and the suppressed laughter ; still , no one seemed to be paying any attention to himself . 
As he had not spoken for some time , however , he thought it might be well to let his voice be heard ; and , taking care that it should sound well within the port , he made one of the light objections to the vice-governatore 's theory , that he had urged at the commencement of the controversy . 
This was little heeded , as he expected ; but it served to make those without know that he was in his prison , and might prevent an untimely discovery . 
Everything else seemed propitious ; and laying down again , at his length , his face came within a few inches of Ithuel 's . 
`` All safe , '' he whispered ; `` what would you have me do ? '' 
This Raoul did ; at first , as it might be , inch by inch , until Ithuel put the end of a rope into his hands , telling him it was well fast to the channel above . 
Nothing would have been easier , than for Raoul to drag his body out at the port , and to drop into the boat ; but , to escape , it was still necessary to avoid observation . 
This consideration induced the utmost caution on the part of Ithuel ; nor was it entirely lost on his friend . 
By this time , however , Raoul found he was so completely master of his movements , as to be able to swing his legs out of the port , by a very trifling effort ; then the descent into the boat would be the easiest thing imaginable . 
But a pressure from the hand of Ithuel checked him . 
Ithuel gave the signal , and Raoul dragged his head and shoulders up by his arms , while he placed his feet against the gun ; the next moment he was hanging perpendicularly , beneath the main-chains . 
When his feet touched a thwart , he found that the American was there before him . 
The latter dragged him down to his side , and the two lay concealed in the bottom of the yawl , with a cloak of Ghita 's thrown over their persons . 
The oars were soon out , Carlo took the tiller , and a feeling of exultation glowed at the heart of Raoul , as he bent to his ashen implement , and felt the boat quiver with the impulse . 
`` They only turn the hands up , '' said Raoul , who perceived that his companion paused , like one uneasy . 
Ithas been seen that a generous sympathy had taken place of hostile feeling , as respects Raoul , in the minds of most on board the Proserpine . 
Now , the whole of the dispute between the two Italians , and that which had passed beneath the ship 's channels , did not occupy but six or seven minutes ; and the little cluster of officers was still gaining recruits , when Raoul was fairly in the yawl of his own lugger . 
As Raoul and Ithuel had been at work , while time was lost in doubt in and around the ship , they had got about three hundred yards the start of even Yelverton . 
In a pull of a mile and a half , the yawl was certain to be overtaken , and the practised ears of Raoul soon assured him of the fact . 
His own oars were muffled . 
He determined to profit by the circumstance , and turn aside , in the hope that his fleet pursuers would pass him unseen . 
Raoul and Ithuel ceased rowing , to permit this exchange of position , and the former had a few sarcastic remarks on the stupidity of his enemies , as some relief to the feelings of the moment . 
In this manner , then , Raoul suffered three of the five boats to pass ahead of him . 
The remaining two were so distant as not to be heard , and when those in advance were sufficiently in advance , he and Ithuel followed them , with a leisurely stroke , reserving themselves for any emergency that might occur . 
`` One would think , Ghita , '' said Raoul , laughing , though he had the precaution to speak in an under-tone -- `` one would think that your old friends , the vice-governatore and the podestâ , commanded the boats in-shore of us , were it not known that they are this very moment quarrelling about the fact , whether there is such a place as Elba on this great planet of ours , or not . '' 
Raoul , remember the last dreadful eight-and-forty hours ! 
`` They 're short-handed , and did n't like to cripple a top-man , '' answered he of the Granite state , unwilling to concede anything to liberal or just sentiments . 
`` Bien ; quant à moi , I shall speak well of the bridge which carries me over , '' said Raoul . 
`` Is not your heart grateful to God for the last , dear Raoul ? '' 
asked Ghita , in a voice so gentle and tender , that the young man could have bowed down and worshipped her . 
You would scarce think it , Ghita , '' continued Raoul , who was now light of heart , and full of the scene he had so recently witnessed -- `` you would hardly think it , Ghita , but Signor Andrea , sensible and learned as he is , maintained that it was not folly to believe in a philosophy which teaches that nothing we see or do actually exists , but that everything was mere seeming . 
But to this , Raoul objected . 
He thought the boats astern were still so distant as to enable them to reach the shore in time to escape . 
Still , as it was a first object with Raoul to rejoin his lugger as soon as possible , after landing Ghita , he did not wish to place his boat in any situation of much risk . 
`` Do not mind me , Raoul ; put me on the land at the nearest place , and go you to your vessel . 
Raoul persisted , and she was obliged to submit . 
As Raoul gave this point a good berth , and his own progress was noiseless , this was bringing himself and companions , after their recent dangers , into comparative security . 
After passing Massa , Raoul felt no further uneasiness , and he requested Carlo Giuntotardi to sheer in towards the land , where less resistance from the breeze was met with , and where it was also easier to know the precise position . 
Apprehension of the boats now ceased , though Ithuel fancied , from time to time , that he heard smothered sounds , like those of oars imperfectly muffled . 
Raoul laughed at his conceits and apprehensions , and , to confess the truth , he became negligent of his duty , again , in the soothing delight of finding himself , once more , free , in all but heart , in the company of Ghita . 
`` As soon as my uncle and myself have landed at the Marina Grande , Raoul , '' said Ghita , `` thou and the American will be certain to seek thy lugger ; then thou promisest to quit the coast ? '' 
`` Why ask promises of one that thou dost not sufficiently respect to think he will keep them ? '' 
`` I do not deserve this , Raoul ; between thee and me , no promise has ever been broken . '' 
Thou know ` st , Raoul , that , in thine eyes , all the offices of the church are mummery ; that nothing is more sacred , with thee , for being sworn to at the altar of God , and with one of his holy ministers for a witness ! '' 
exclaimed Ghita , in alarm , lest he should utter the name of that holy Being towards whom her heart was even at that moment swelling with gratitude for his own recent escape from death . 
`` Neither , S'nore , '' answered Raoul , afraid to trust Carlo 's conscience with the management of such a dialogue . 
Clinch was thinking of other things , at that moment ; and when he continued , it was to follow the train of his own thoughts . 
`` Have you seen anything of a barone-looking lugger , '' he asked , `` French-rigged , and French manned , skulking anywhere about this coast ? '' 
This question was put with so much interest , that Raoul cursed his interrogator , in his heart ; imagining that he was burning with the wish to learn his own execution . 
He was also now aware that this was the boat which had left the Proserpine about noon . 
`` That is un brave , '' said Raoul , with emphasis , as they parted . 
Raoul and Ithuel mechanically ceased rowing , under the impression that the master 's - mate had still something to communicate . 
All this time , Raoul and Ithuel lay on their oars , almost afraid to stir the water , and listening with an attention that was nearly breathless . 
Raoul , they come ! '' 
So careful , however , was the stroke , that they were within two hundred feet of the yawl , before Raoul and his companion took the alarm , and plunged their own oars again into the water . 
`` Thatmay yet save him ! '' 
Carlo caught his niece 's idea , and he kept his tiller hard a-port ; telling Raoul and Ithuel , at the same time , to take in their oars , as quick as possible . 
But just as they supposed the boat was about to strike against some perpendicular rocks , and Raoul was muttering his surprise that such a spot should be chosen to land at , it glided through a low natural arch , and entered a little basin , as noiselessly as a bubble floating in a current . 
Neither Ghita nor her uncle any longer felt concern ; but , the former announced her intention to land here , assuring Raoul that she could easily find her way into the bridle-path which leads to St. Agata . 
The obscurity was not so great as to render the walking very difficult ; and Raoul and Ghita pursued their course slowly along the rocks , each oppressed with the same sensation of regret at parting , though influenced by nearly opposing views for the future . 
`` Raoul , '' she said , after listening to some one of those fervent declarations of love that were peculiarly agreeable to one of her affectionate and sincere nature , even when she most felt the necessity of repelling the insinuating suit ; `` there must be an end of this . 
`` It wouldseem to meeasy to do all this , Raoul . 
Raoul was earnest in his manner , and it was not possible to doubt his sincerity . 
Though an air of self-satisfaction gleamed in his face , when he alluded to his present personal appearance , for he well knew all his advantages in that way , in spite of the dress of a lazzarone . 
`` Urge me not , dear Raoul , '' Ghita answered , though , unconsciously to herself , she pressed closer to his side , and both sadness and love were in the very tones of her voice ; `` urge me not , dear Raoul ; this can never be . 
`` It is not a human inducement , Raoul ; it is one above earth , and all it holds . '' 
`` Raoul , thou art speaking of the ministers of God ! '' 
`` It is not pretence , Raoul , but a deep , and I fear , a painful reality . '' 
`` It is not a secondary , but a primary thing , Raoul ; oh ! 
`` It is not thou that I dread , Raoul , but myself ; '' answered the girl , with streaming eyes , though she succeeded in suppressing the sobs that struggled for utterance . 
Raoul was deeply touched with the feeling Ghita betrayed , while he was ready to adore her for the confiding sincerity with which she confessed his power over her heart . 
His answer was given with seductive tenderness of manner , which proved that he was not altogether unworthy of the strange conflict he had created in so gentle a breast . 
`` Thy God will never desert thee , Ghita , '' he said ; `` thou hast nothing to fear as my wife , or that of any other man . 
Raoul , little dost thou understand the hearts of women . 
`` Nay , Raoul , it is not that . 
`` Nothing can be less alike , Raoul ; yet one may impair , if not destroy the other . 
`` Say not so , Raoul ; be prudent for the sake of your country -- '' `` But not for thine , Ghita ? '' 
`` Yes , Raoul , and for mine also . 
Heaven bless thee , Raoul ; my prayers will be full of thee . 
Raoul listened intently for the next word , but he listened in vain . 
how I hope it may be so , my poor Raoul ! 
Raoul stretched forth his arms to clasp the tender girl to his bosom ; but , fearful of herself , she avoided him , and fled along the path like one terrified with the apprehension of pursuit . 
Before descending the funnel , Raoul had taken a survey of the water from the rocks above . 
He listened intently , to catch any sounds that might arise from the English boats . 
Satisfied that all was safe outside , he determined to row out into the Bay , and , making a circuit to avoid his enemies , push to the westward , in the expectation of finding his lugger in the offing . 
As there was now a considerable land-breeze , and the yawl was lightened of so much of her freight , there was little doubt of his being able to effect his purpose , so far as getting out of sight was concerned , at least , long ere the return of light . 
Raoul exclaimed , after he had given the American , jog the third , `` you sleep like a friar who is paid for saying masses at midnight . 
Raoul did as desired . 
muttered Raoul ; `` this is a bold pilot -- he loves the rocks , as if they were his mistress ! 
exclaimed Raoul , rising and actually extending his arms , as if to embrace the beloved craft . 
said Raoul , distinctly , though he feared to trust his voice with a loud hail . 
Raoul watched the movement ; and by the time her way was nearly lost , he was alongside , and had caught a rope . 
At the next instant , he was on board her . 
Raoul trod the deck of his lugger , again , with the pride of a monarch , as he ascends his throne . 
Certain of her sailing qualities , and confident of his own skill , this gallant seaman was perfectly indifferent to the circumstance that he was environed by powerful enemies . 
The explanations that passed between him and his first-lieutenant , Pintard , were brief but distinct . 
As the wind came off the land , however , she kept away , and passing between Procida and Mysenum , she came out into the Bay of Naples , about three hours before meeting with Raoul , with the intention of examining the whole of the opposite coast , in search of the yawl . 
There was a scene of lively congratulation , and of even pleasing emotion , on the deck of the lugger , when Raoul so unexpectedly appeared . 
He had every quality to make himself beloved by his men . 
Brave , adventurous , active , generous and kind-hearted , his qualities rendered him a favourite to a degree that was not common even among the people of that chivalrous nation . 
The French mariner will bear familiarity better than his great rival and neighbour , the Englishman ; and it was natural with our hero to be frank and free with all ; whether above him or below him in condition . 
The temperaments to be brought into subjection were not as rude and intractable as those of the Anglo-Saxon ; and the off-hand , dashing character of Raoul was admirably adapted to win both the admiration and the affections of his people . 
They now thronged about him , without hesitation or reserve , each man anxious to make his good wishes known , his felicitations heard . 
`` I have kept you playing about the fire , camarades , '' said Raoul , affected by the proofs of attachment he received ; `` but , we will now take our revenge . 
An exclamation of pleasure followed ; then an old quarter-master , who had actually taught his commander his first lessons in seamanship , shoved through the crowd , and put his questions with a sort of authority . 
`` Mon capitaine , '' he said , `` have you been near these English ? '' 
This account required an explanation , which Raoul gave in a very few words , and then the crew were directed to go to their stations , in order that the lugger might be properly worked . 
`` Raoul laughed , and pronounced the word `` bon '' in the emphatic manner peculiar to a Frenchman . 
Raoul had been often here , during the short reign of the Rufo faction , and was familiar with most of the coast . 
He knew that his little lugger might brush against the very rocks , in most places , and was satisfied that if he fell in with the Prosperine 's boats at all , it must be quite near the land . 
While in the very act of going round , and before the head-sheets were drawn , Raoul was startled by a sudden hail . 
demanded Raoul , who had gone to the gangway to receive his visiter . '' 
`` You have , Monsieur , '' answered Raoul , courteously , `` but not into the hands of enemies . 
Clinch was in despair ; it mattered not to him , whither he was taken . 
In the cabin he sat the picture of a helpless man , and a bottle of brandy happening to stand on the table , he eyed it with something like the ferocity with which the hungry wolf may be supposed to gaze at the lamb ere he leaps the fold . 
demanded Raoul , when the cabin-lamp shone on the prisoner 's face ; `` he who was so much rejoiced to hear that his enemy was nothanged ? '' 
Clinch stared as if he did not , or could not , believe what he heard -- then the truth flashed on his mind , and he burst into tears . 
Throughout that day his feelings had been in extremes , hope once more opening a long vista of happiness for the future , through the renewed confidence and advice of his captain . 
Thus far he had done well , and it was by striving to do still better that he had fallen into the hands of the enemy . 
The kindness of Raoul 's manner , however , his words , and the explanations of Ithuel , removed a mountain from his breast , and he became quite unmanned . 
Clinch had in him the living consciousness that he was capable of better things , and he endured moments of deep anguish , as the image of the patient , self-devoting , and constant Jane rose before his mind 's eye to reproach him with his weaknesses . 
It is true that she never made these reproaches in terms ; so far from that , she would not even believe the slanders of those she mistook for his enemies ; but Clinch could not always quiet the spirit within him , and he often felt degraded as he remembered with how much more firmness Jane supported the loud of hope deferred , than he did himself . 
But Raoul 's generosity removed the load , and again the prospect brightened . 
Raoulsoon decided on his course . 
While he was consoling Clinch , orders had been sent to Pintard to look for the other gig ; but a few minutes ' search , under the cliffs , satisfied those on deck that she was not to be found ; and the fact was so reported below . 
Satisfied , at length , that the other boat had escaped him , and feeling the necessity of getting out of the Bay while it was still dark , Raoul reluctantly gave the order to bear up , and put the lugger dead before the wind , wing-and-wing . 
So swift was the progress of the little craft , that within fifteen minutes after bearing up , Raoul and Ithuel , who again occupied their stations on the forecastle , saw the head-land where they had so lately been concealed , and ordered the helm a-port , in order to sheer out and give it a berth . 
In sweeping down the shore , in this manner , the intention was to pick up any boat that might happen to be in the lugger 's track ; for , while Raoul was disposed to let his prisoner go , he had a strong desire to seize any other officers of the frigate that might fall in his way . 
Fortunately , the positions of the English vessels were known to Raoul , a circumstance that lessened the danger , certainly ; but it would not do to continue long within a league of their anchorage , with the risk of the land breezes failing . 
`` Here I must lose the pleasure of your company , Monsieur Clinch , '' said Raoul , with a courtesy that may almost be termed national . 
Raoul laughed , for his heart was light , and sundry droll conceits danced through his brain . 
As for Clinch , the whole was Greek to him , with the exception that he understood it was the intention of the French to take their vessel off the coast , a circumstance that he was not sorry to learn , though he would have given so much , a few hours earlier , to have known where to find her . 
Raoul 's generosity had worked a revolution in his feelings , however , and nothing was farther from his wishes , now , than to be employed against the celebrated privateersman . 
Still , he had a duty to perform to the service of which he was a member , another to Jane , and a last to himself . 
But , in fact , Raoul had no such intention . 
His cruise was not up , and his present position , surrounded as he was with enemies , was full of attraction to one of his temperament . 
Only the day before he appeared in the disguise of a lazzarone , he had captured , manned , and sent to Marseilles a valuable store-ship ; and he knew that another was hourly expected in the bay . 
This was an excuse to his people for remaining where they were . 
But the excitement of constantly running the gauntlet , the pleasure of demonstrating the superior sailing of his lugger , the opportunities for distinction , and every other professional motive , was trifling , as compared with the tie which bound him to , the feeling that unceasingly attracted him towards Ghita . 
With his love , also , there began to mingle a sensation approaching to despair . 
While Ghita was so gentle , and even tender , with him , he had ever found her consistent , and singularly firm in her principles . 
In their recent dialogues , some that we have forborne to relate on account of their peculiar character , Ghita had expressed her reluctance to trust her fate with one whose God was not her God , with a distinctness and force that left no doubt of the seriousness of her views , or of her ability to sustain them in acts . 
What rendered her resolution more impressive , was the ingenuous manner with which she never hesitated to admit Raoul 's power over her affections , leaving no pretext for the common-place supposition that the girl was acting . 
In proceeding thus , Raoul had a double intention before him . 
English ships were constantly passing between Sicily , Malta , and Naples ; and , as those bound north would naturally draw in with the land at this point , his position might enable him to strike a sudden blow , with the return of day , should any suitable vessel be in the offing next morning . 
Then he hoped for a signal from Ghita , at least -- and such things were very dear to his heart ; or , possibly , anxiety and affection might bring her down to the water-side , when another interview would be possible . 
This was the weakness of passion ; and Raoul submitted to its power , like feebler-minded and less resolute men ; the hero becoming little better than the vulgar herd , under its influence . 
As for Ithuel , he had been in his hammock an hour ; and Raoul now thought seriously of following his example . 
Giving his instructions to the young lieutenant who was in charge of the deck , our hero went below , and , in a few minutes , he was also lost to present hopes and fears . 
The blow was hardly given , before Raoul appeared on deck . 
Of all around him , Raoul was the calmest , the most collected , and the best qualified to issue the orders that had become necessary . 
He made no exclamations -- uttered not a word of reproach -- cast not even a glance of disapprobation on any near him . 
`` She is as fast anchored as a cathedral , mon lieutenant , '' he quietly observed to the very officer through whose remissness the accident had occurred ; `` I see no use in these sails . 
The melancholy suicide was immediately reported to Raoul . 
Raoul loved his lugger , next to Ghita , before all things on earth , and , in his eyes , the fault of wrecking her in a calm , was to be classed among the unpardonable sins . 
Raoul neglected no useful precaution . 
By this time the light was strong enough to enable him to see a felucca coming slowly down from Salerno , before the wind , or all that was still left of the night air , and he despatched Ithuel with an armed boat to seize her , and bring her alongside of the rocks . 
He took this course with the double purpose of using the prize , if practicable , in getting his own vessel off , or , in the last resort , of making his own escape , and that of his people , in her to France . 
He did not condescend to explain his motives , however ; nor did any one presume to inquire into them . 
Raoul was now strictly a commander , acting in a desperate emergency . 
He even succeeded in suppressing the constitutional volubility of his countrymen , and in substituting for it the deep , attentive silence of thorough discipline ; one of the great causes of his own unusual success in maritime enterprises . 
As soon as the boat was sent to seize the felucca , the yawl was put into the water , and Raoul , himself , began to sound around the lugger . 
The rocks of the Sirens , as the islets are called to this day , are sufficiently elevated above the surface of the sea to be visible at some distance ; though , lying in a line with the coast , it would not have been easy for the look-outs of le Feu-Follet to discern them at the hour when she struck , even had they been on the alert . 
The lugger had been lifted into a crevice between two of the rocks , by a ground-swell heavier than common ; and though there was deep water all round her , it would be impossible to get her afloat again without lightening . 
So long as the wind did not blow , and the sea did not rise , she was safe enough ; but a swell that should force the hull to rise and fall , would inevitably cause her to bilge . 
These facts were learned in five minutes after the yawl was in the water , and much did Raoul rejoice at having so promptly sent Ithuel in quest of the felucca . 
Raoul now directed the work to commence in earnest . 
Raoul perceived at once that the moment was not one for half-way measures , and that large sacrifices must be made , to save the hull of the vessel . 
This , and the safety of his crew , were the two great objects he kept before him . 
All his measures were directed to that end . 
Raoul had ascertained that there was water enough , where le Feu-Follet lay , to permit a vessel like his prize , to touch her ; and many things lay on deck , in readiness to be transferred to this tender , previously to beginning to heave . 
This pause in the proceedings gave Raoul an opportunity to look about him , and to reflect . 
Twenty times did he turn his eyes , anxiously , towards the heights of St. Agata , where there existed subjects equally of attraction and apprehension . 
The men who had accompanied the American were now dismissed to their morning 's meal , while Raoul invited their leader to share his frugal repast , where he sat . 
Raoul 's tale was soon told ; but the other learned with concern , that the crew of the felucca had taken to their boat , and escaped to the landing of the Scaricatojo , on finding that the capture of their vessel was inevitable . 
Theintelligence communicated by Ithuel essentially altered Raoul 's views of his actual situation . 
Raoul ceased eating , and , standing on the taffrail , he cast anxious looks around him . 
His sturdy followers , ignorant of all the dangers by which they were environed , were consuming their morning 's meal , with the characteristic indifference to danger that marks the ordinary conduct of seamen . 
Even Ithuel , usually so sensitive on the subject of English power , and who had really so much to apprehend , should he again fall into the hands of the Proserpines , was masticating his food , with the keen relish of a man who had been hard at work the whole morning . 
All appeared unconscious of their critical condition ; and to Raoul it seemed as if the entire responsibility rested on his own shoulders . 
Fortunately , he was not a man to shrink from his present duties ; and he occupied the only leisure moment that would be likely to offer that day , in deliberating on his resources , and in maturing his plans . 
Two , or even four of the light guns might be worked on the decks of the felucca ; and here he determined they should be immediately placed , with a proper supply of cartridges and shot . 
Raoul got into the yawl , and sculled himself to this spot , examining the capabilities with care and judgment . 
After this , his mode of proceeding was matured to his own satisfaction . 
As Ithuel had captured the felucca , Raoul felt it right to intrust him with the command of the prize . 
He was directed to take on board the armament and ammunition necessary to a defence , to mount the guns in the best manner he could , and to make all the other fighting preparations ; while another gang struck into the felucca 's hold , such articles from the lugger , as it was desirable to save . 
While these dispositions were in progress , Raoul himself , assisted by his sailing-master , prepared to heave the lugger off the rocks . 
By this time , Raoul calculated that the English , at Capri , knew of his misfortune , and little leisure remained in which to do a vast deal of work . 
As soon as the cable got the strain , Raoul felt satisfied that the anchor would hold . 
There was an instant when Raoul fancied his best course would be to set fire to the hulk , get on board the felucca , and sweep off to the southward , in season to avoid the expected visit from the English . 
He even called his officers together , and laid the proposition before them . 
But the project was too feebly urged , and it met with too little response in the breasts of his auditors to be successful . 
Raoul had measured his hours with the accuracy of a prudent general . 
It was now almost time for the English boats to appear , and he began to hope that the Neapolitans had made the great mistake of sending their information to the fleet off Naples , rather than carrying it to the ships at Capri . 
Should it prove so , he had still the day before him , and might retire under cover of the night . 
`` Get ready , men , '' cried Raoul , as he paced the taffrail ; `` and heave at the word . 
Of all this , Raoul was aware , and he determined not to let the feeling flag . 
he said . 
The tears came to Raoul 's eyes ; but he had no opportunity of concealing them , every officer he had pressing around him to exchange felicitations . 
This was the cause of delay , and had given rise to certain hopes in Raoul , that facts were subsequently to destroy . 
Raoul saw he had rather more than an hour to spare . 
That small , low craft might destroy a few of her assailants , but she would inevitably be carried at the first onset . 
There was not time to get the ballast and other equipments into the lugger , so as to render her capable of a proper resistance ; nor did even she offer the same advantages for a defence , unless in quick motion , as the ruins . 
With this end , Ithuel was directed to haul his felucca to a proper berth ; the first-lieutenant was ordered to get as much on board le Feu-Follet as possible , in readiness to profit by events ; while Raoul himself , selecting thirty of his best men , commenced preparing the guns on the rocks for active service . 
Much of the ballast was again on board the lugger , and a few of her stores , sufficient to render her tolerably stiff , in the event of a breeze springing up ; and Raoul had directed the two inside guns of the felucca to be sent on board her and mounted , that she might assist in the defence with a flanking fire . 
In order to prevent this , as much as in his power , Raoul placed his two floating-batteries out of line , though it was impossible to make such a disposition of them as would not leave each exposed , on one point of attack , in a degree greater than any other . 
When his own guns were ready , and the two vessels moored , Raoul visited both the lugger and felucca , to inspect their preparations , and to say a cheerful word to their men . 
He found most things to his mind ; where they were not , he ordered changes to be made . 
With the lieutenant , his conversation was brief , for that officer was one who possessed much experience in this very sort of warfare , and could be relied on . 
With Ithuel , he was more communicative ; not that he distrusted the citizen of the Granite state , but that he knew him to be a man of unusual resources , could the proper spirit be aroused within him . 
`` Bien , Etooelle , '' he said , when the inspection was ended , `` much will depend on the use you make of these two guns . '' 
Raoul squeezed Ithuel 's hand , and entered his boat . 
While doing this , the young mariner discovered a boat pulling from the direction of the marinella , at the foot of the Scaricatojo , which had got so near , unseen , as , at first , to startle him by its proximity . 
A second look , however , satisfied him that no cause of apprehension existed , in that quarter . 
His eye could not be deceived . 
Raoul was alone , sculling the light yawl with a single hand , and he exerted himself to meet these unexpected , and , in the circumstances , unwelcome visiters , as far as possible from the rocks . 
`` I see it all , now , Raoul , '' was the answer , `` though we did not on quitting the shore ; but we would not turn back , having once come upon the Bay . 
asked Raoul , with sparkling eyes -- `` at length thou relentest -- wilt become my wife ! 
`` Not exactly that , dear Raoul ; but I can not desert thee , altogether , in this strait . 
The condemnation to death hangs over thee , Raoul ; shouldst thou again fall into English hands , there will be no mercy for thee . '' 
`` Thou tellest us this in vain , Raoul , '' Ghita quietly , but firmly answered . 
`` We will remain , Raoul . 
Raoul gazed at the beautiful enthusiast , with an intensity of love and admiration , that even her truthful simplicity had never before excited . 
Some signs of impatience had begun to manifest themselves among his people , ere Raoul made up his mind to the course he would follow . 
Raoul saw the advantages of this position , and he led Ghita and her uncle to it , without pausing to deliberate . 
Here he tenderly embraced the girl , a liberty Ghita could not repel at such a moment ; then he tore himself away , to attend to duties which had now become urgently pressing . 
For the obvious reason of preventing the French from attempting to escape to the shore , he chose to approach from that side himself , an arrangement that best suited Raoul ; who , foreseeing the probability of the course , had made his own preparations with an eye to such an event . 
When Raoul was taken in the Bay of Naples , these two worthies fancied that their mission was ended -- that they might return , with credit , to Porto Ferrajo , and again hold up their heads , with dignity and self-complacency , among the functionaries of the island . 
Distant as this was , however , Raoul , while reconnoitring the enemy with a glass , detected the presence of the two Elbans . 
He laughed outright at the discovery , notwithstanding the many serious reflections that naturally pressed upon his mind at such a moment . 
As has been said , the principal point was to make the different guns support each other ; in order to do this effectually , it became necessary to spring the lugger 's broadside round more obliquely towards the felucca ; which accomplished , Raoul deemed his arrangements complete . 
Raoul had foreseen the probability of this , and , with a special view to prevent the two vessels from being easily boarded , he had caused both to be placed in such positions as left low barriers of rocks between them and that quarter of the bay . 
Raoul had planted among the ruins the remaining four guns . 
With the aid of a few planks , the breechings , tackles , and other appliances of a vessel , this had been easily effected ; and , on reviewing his work , he had great confidence in the permanency of his pieces . 
Just as these several dispositions were completed , Ithuel , who ever kept an eye to windward , called out to Raoul , and inquired if it might not be well to run the yards up to the mast-heads , as they would be more out of the way in their place aloft than littering the decks . 
This is the ordinary state of craft of the latter rig , though not always that of luggers ; and the Granite-man , mindful that his own gear was down , in consequence of having been lowered by her former owners previously to the capture , bethought him of the expediency of getting everything ready for a run . 
He wished the lugger to be in an equal state of preparation , it being plain enough that two to be pursued , would embarrass the English , in a chase , twice as much as one . 
This was the reason of his suggestion ; and he felt happier for seeing it attended to . 
Cuffe sent four of her boats against the enemy , while he restricted the Terpsichore to two , including her gig , and the Ringdove to two . 
Each ship sent her launch , as a matter of course , with a twelve-pound boat-gun on its grating . 
Raoul had noted the smallest movement of the enemy with a glass , and with grave attention . 
Nothing escaped his jealous watchfulness ; and he saw that Sir Frederick had made a capital error in the outset . 
The few minutes that intervened between the order to advance , and the moment when the boats got within a quarter of a mile of the rock , were passed in a profound quiet , neither side making any noise , though Raoul had no small difficulty in restraining the constitutional impatience of his own men to begin . 
A boat presents so small an object , however , to artillerists as little skilled as seamen generally are , who depend more on general calculations than on the direct or scientific aim , the latter being usually defeated by the motion of their vessels , that he was unwilling to throw away even his canister . 
A Frenchman himself , however , he could refrain no longer , and he pointed a carronade , firing it with his own hand . 
To own the truth , he of the Granite state had slily brushed his hand over the guns , and robbed them of this great essential of their force . 
He held the priming-horns in his own hands , and resolutely refused to allow them to pass into those of any other person . 
Even Raoul glanced aside , a little wondering at not hearing the felucca 's carronades , but perceiving her people busy with their fire-arms , he believed all right . 
said Raoul , as he witnessed the man 's fall ; `` carry him to the surgeon , mes braves . '' 
At that moment Raoul found leisure to walk a yard or two towards the rear , in order to ascertain if the cover of Ghita were sufficient . 
The girl was on her knees , lost to all around her , though , could he have read her heart , he would have found it divided between entreaties to the Deity and love for himself . 
Raoul seized the opportunity to prepare for the expected hand-to-hand struggle ; but it was unnecessary . 
Raoul stopped the fire , equally from humanity and policy , after a few discharges at the retreating boats ; and the first act of the battle closed . 
Raoul was too deliberate , and too much collected , not to feel his advantage . 
Anxious to keep his means of further defence in the best condition , he directed all the guns to cease , and the damages to be repaired . 
Then he went with a party towards the boat that had fallen into his hands . 
To encumber himself with prisoners of any sort , in his actual situation , would have been a capital mistake ; but to do this with wounded men , would have been an act of folly . 
The boat had tourniquets and other similar appliances in it , and he directed some of the French to use them on those that wanted them most . 
He also supplied the parched lips of the sufferers with water , when , conceiving that his duty was performed , he gave an order to haul the boat on one side , and to shove it forcibly out of the line of any coming conflict . 
The look that Raoul cast towards his auxiliary was fierce , even indignant ; but , disregarding the advice , he motioned for his own men to obey the order he had already given them . 
They came so clus ' at Bunker Hill , our folks -- '' `` Bon -- '' repeated Raoul , feeling no wish to hear a thricetold tale gone through again , Bunker Hill invariably placing Ithuel on a great horse in the way of bragging ; for he not only imagined that great victory a New-England triumph , as in fact it was , but he was much disposed to encourage the opinion that it was in a great measure `` granite . '' 
`` Bon , '' interrupted Raoul -- `` Bunkair was good ; -- mais , les Rochess aux Sirensis bettair . 
asked the other , pointing up at a little vane that began to flutter at the head of one of his masts . 
Raoul started , and gazed at the heavens , the vane , and the surface of the sea ; the latter beginning to show a slightly ruffled surface . 
Then his eye wandered towards Ghita . 
The girl had risen from her knees , and her eyes followed his every movement . 
When they met his , with a sweet , imploring smile , she pointed upward , as if beseeching him to pay the debt of gratitude he owed to that dread Being who had , as yet , borne him unharmed through the fray . 
He understood her meaning , kissed his hand in affectionate gallantry , and turned towards Ithuel , to pursue the discourse . 
`` It is too soon , '' he said . 
As for Raoul , he lay in front of his own rampart , having rushed forward to meet the party of Clinch , and had actually crossed swords with his late prisoner , when a musket-ball , fired by the hands of McBean , traversed his body . 
Pintard and his companions abandoned Raoul with heavy hearts , but they plainly saw him prostrated on the rocks , and by the hand placed on his side , understood the desperate nature of his wound . 
When all was over , however , they drew near to the rocks , and , sitting in their boat , contemplating the sad spectacle presented within the narrow compass of the islet of the ruins , the following short dialogue occurred between them : -- `` Vice-governatore , '' demanded the podestâ , pointing to the place where Sir Frederick lay , a motionless corpse , Raoul bleeding , and others were writhing under their wounds -- `` do you call this reality , or is it a part of that damnable doctrine , which is enough to set the whole earth by the ears , and to turn men into tigers and hawks ? '' 
The surgeon soon pronounced Raoul 's case to be hopeless ; and this declaration was heard with regret even by generous enemies . 
Of the French , no one remained but the surgeon of the lugger , Raoul 's steward and personal attendant , and Raoul himself . 
The idea of torturing Raoul , either in body or mind , was the last intention of one so humane , but he felt indignant at the implied suspicion . 
Commanding himself , notwithstanding , he bowed courteously , and intimated that he would remain himself , with his prisoner , until all were over . 
Two or three of these were procured , placed on the smoothest surface of the rock , and a bed formed for Raoul . 
The distance prevented their disturbing those who remained near Raoul , while the light of the fire , which was kept in a cheerful blaze , cast a picturesque glow upon the group around the dying man , as soon as the night had fairly set in . 
We pass over all the first outpourings of Ghita 's anguish , when she learned the wound of Raoul , her many and fervent prayers , and the scenes that took place during the time that the islet was still crowded with the combatants . 
Raoul lay on the summit of the islet , where his eye could range over the mild waters that washed the rock , and his ear listen to the murmuring of his own element . 
The Tramontana , as usual , had driven all perceptible vapour from the atmosphere , and the vault of heaven , in its cerulean blue , and spangled with thousands of stars , stretched itself above him , a glorious harbinger for the future , to one who died in hope . 
Winchester , fatigued with his day 's work , and mindful of the wish that Raoul might so naturally feel to be alone with Ghita , had lain down on a mattress , leaving orders to be called should anything occur ; while the surgeon , conscious that he could do no more , had imitated his example , making a similar request . 
Raoul and Ghita were alone . 
The former lay on his back , his head bolstered , and his face upturned towards the vault of heaven . 
His heart was still full of Ghita ; thought his extraordinary situation , and more especially , the glorious view before his eyes , blended certain pictures of the future , with his feelings , that were as novel as he found them powerful . 
To say that she did not yet feel the liveliest love for Raoul , all that tenderness which constitutes so large a portion of woman 's nature , would be untrue ; but , her mind was now made up to the worst , and her thoughts were of another state of being . 
A long pause had occurred , in which Raoul remained steadfastly gazing at the starry canopy above . 
`` It is remarkable , Ghita , '' he said , at length , `` that I -- Raoul Yvard -- the corsair -- the man of wars and tempests -- fierce combats and hair-breadth escapes -- should be dying here , on this rock , with all those stars looking down upon me , as it might be , from your heaven , seeming to smile upon me ! '' 
`` Why not yourheaven , as well as mine , Raoul ? '' 
`` It is as vast as He who dwells in it -- whose throne it is -- and can contain all who love him , and seek his mercy . '' 
`` Dost thou think one like me would be received into his presence , Ghita ? '' 
`` Do not doubt it -- free from all error and weakness Himself , his Holy Spirit delights in the penitent and the sorrowful . 
dearest , dearest Raoul , if thou would ` stbut pray ! '' 
exclaimed Raoul , letting the tongue reveal the transient thought which brought the gleam of triumph to his countenance . 
Raoul heard the movement ; and turning his head , he gazed at the girl , for quite a minute , with a portion of that intense admiration that used to gleam from his eyes in happier moments . 
`` It is better as it is , Ghita , '' he said , `` than that I should live without thee . 
Raoul ! 
`` The beginning and the end , are both God , Raoul . 
Since the commencement of time , hath he established laws which have brought about the trials of thy life -- the sadness of this very hour . '' 
`` And dost thou think he will pardon all thy care of one so unworthy ? '' 
When the minute of prayer , that succeeded , was over , and her face was again raised with the flush of feeling tempered by innocence on it , Raoul was lying on his back , his eyes riveted , again , on the vault of heaven . 
His professional pursuits had led him farther into the study of astronomy than comported with his general education ; and , addicted to speculation , its facts had often seized upon his fancy , though they had failed to touch his heart . 
Hitherto , indeed , he had fallen into the common error of limited research , and found a confirmation of his suspicions , in the assumed grasp of his own reason . 
The dread moment that was so near , could not fail of its influence , however ; and that unknown future over which he hung , as it might be , suspended by a hair , inevitably led his mind into an inquiry after the unknown God . 
`` And what is this , Raoul , to the power and majesty of Him who created the universe ? 
think not of the things of his hand , but of Him who made them ! '' 
`` And dost thouknow , my poor Raoul , what this mind of man is ? '' 
`` A part of his nature -- the highest quality ; that which maketh him the lord of earth . '' 
`` His highest quality -- and that which maketh him lord of earth , in one sense , truly ; but , after all , a mere fragment -- a spot on the width of the heavens -- of the spirit of God himself . 
`` Raoul ! 
-- Raoul ! 
Raoul answered not for some time . 
His eyes were fastened on a bright star , and a tumult of thought began to crowd upon his brain . 
Raoul 's soul was agitated by novel sensations . 
`` Do thy priests fancy that they who have known and loved each other in this life , '' he asked , `` will know and love each other , in that which they fancy is to come ? '' 
`` The life that is to come , Raoul , is one all love , or one all hatred . 
`` Little dost thou know , or understand him , Raoul . 
His mind seldom ceases to dwell on thoughts like these ; this is the reason why earth , and all it contains , seem so indifferent . '' 
Raoul made no answer , but appearing to suffer under the pain of his wound , the feelings of woman so far prevailed over Ghita 's tender nature , that she had not the heart to press even his salvation on him , at such a moment . 
She offered him soothing drinks , and nursed him with unabated care ; and when there seemed to be a cessation to his sufferings , she again passed minutes on her knees , her whole soul absorbed in his future welfare . 
Raoul at length muttered . 
It appeared as if the mind of Raoul were about to extricate itself from the shallow philosophy so much in fashion , and which had hitherto deadened a nature so kind , an intellect ordinarily so clear . 
Could his thoughts but once take the right direction , she had strong confidence in the distinctness of their views , but most of all in the goodness of the Deity . 
`` Raoul , '' she whispered , `` God is there , as he is with us , on this rock . 
His spirit is everywhere . 
Bless him ! 
-- bless him in thy soul , my beloved , and be for ever happy ! '' 
Raoul answered not . 
His face was upturned , and his eye still remained riveted on that particular star . 
Ghita would not disturb him , but taking his hand in hers , she once more knelt , and resumed her prayers . 
She saw that even her uncle slept , leaving her truly alone with Raoul . 
She did approach the spot where the surgeon lay , and her hand was raised to stir him , when a flash of light shot atwhart the pallid countenance of Raoul , and she perceived that his eyes were still open . 
Ere the day came , she closed the eyes of Raoul with her own hands , covered his body with a French ensign , that lay upon the rock , and sat , patient and resigned , awaiting the moment when some of the others might be ready to aid her in performing the last pious offices in behalf of the dead . 
Advancing towards Ghita , he was about to inquire after the welfare of Raoul , when , struck by the expression of her seraphic countenance , he turned to the body , and read the truth in the appropriate pall . 
It was no time for selfupbraidings , or for reproaches to others ; but arousing the sleepers , in a subdued and respectful manner , he gave to the place the quiet and seeming sanctity of a chapel . 
When he learned the desperate nature of Raoul 's defence , and heard some traits of his liberal conduct on various occasions , he felt a generous regret at his death ; but he thought even this preferable to escape . 
She continued , however , to reside with her uncle , until his days were numbered ; and then she retired to a convent , not so much to comply with any religious superstitions , as to be able to pass her time , uninterrupted , in repeating prayers for the soul of Raoul . 
