There was one John , or Jack Gordon , as he was called , a -- handsome , reckless fellow -- who formerly lived in the village , but who had left it within the last six months , though he frequently visited it , for whom it was thought Peggy entertained a liking . 
He was a hanger on about races ; sometimes had a faro-table at such places , and he spent much more money than he apparently earned . 
His character did not stand well with the villagers ; he bore himself with a swagger among them , but he spent his money freely , would treat anybody , and everybody , and was not without tact -- and a power to hide his natural propensities , where he had an object in view . 
Latterly , when Jack Gordon visited Springdale he made a much more ostentatious appearance than formerly . 
He dressed with the flare and flash of a circus-rider ; wore a gold watch , with an immense chain ; rode a horse that he alleged had cost three hundred dollars , and for which he would n't take five hundred , and put up at the best tavern in the place . 
You need not think , Granny , that I can forget it -- there 's cousin Peggy 's big looking-glass there , that Jack Gordon give her , it tells me of it all the time . '' 
`` Robert Gommon , '' exclaimed Peggy , quickly , `` I told you before to day that Jack Gordon did n't give me that looking-glass . 
He was driving by here one day in a cart , and he said he had won some things at a raffle , and he asked me if I would n't take care of the glass for him till he could call for it , as he was afraid of breaking it . '' 
`` You 've had it here long enough to make it a gift , any how , Cousin Peggy , '' said Bob , though in a subdued tone . 
`` And I wonder if there 's any harm in riding , if every body do n't know that Jack Gordon is a torn down rider -- he rides at all ho -- '' `` Bobby , '' interrupted Peggy , `` Granny do n't care about your riding if she did n't fear that you would get hurt again . '' 
`` Bobby , '' asked she , `` have you seen Jack Gordon lately . '' 
The ladies at the big house think you have such a good looking face -- I 'm sure I mend your clothes and make your shirts -- let me turn over that collar better -- and do all I can to keep you neat -- you ha ` nt seen Jack Gordon , lately . '' 
`` Have they , '' said Bob , `` well I 'll tell Miss Rachellina what you say , and Jack Gordon too , if I see him . 
`` Good night , Bobby , be back soon , '' rejoined Peggy as she turned and entered the house ; while Bob , with Towser playing round him , went whistling on his way . 
At this very moment Bobby , who had borrowed a gun from Jack Gordon , for the purpose of a little sport , came up to the group just as Thompson was trimming his weapon , and swearing that he would flog Pompey within an inch of his life . 
`` I wonder if Jack Gordon will be there . '' 
`` I heard Jack Gordon speak of him , '' said Bobby , `` an ' I must go and hear him some of these nights when we stay in town . '' 
`` Yes , I 'm up ; '' replied the other , whom Bobby recognised both by voice and person as being Jack Gordon . 
At the last remark of Gordon they stopped , and he asked : `` Do you think that husking match is over yet ? '' 
`` I should say not , '' replied Gordon 's companion ; who wore his hat very much over his face , which prevented the lad from observing his features . 
`` Then I 'll push ahead , '' replied Gordon , `` and meet you at the village to-morrow -- keep dark . '' 
Jack Gordon wont bear watching . 
Bobby for once thought with what pleasure he would stand plumply before Jack Gordon 's mirror , and take a good look , at least , at the comeliness of the gun , powder-horn , and shot-bag , when properly arranged on his person . 
Your thinking about your shadow , Bobby -- that I caught you looking at , though you do n't like Jack Gordon 's looking-glass . '' 
He runs down everybody , Cousin Peggy , -- I want to know did you see Jack Gordon last night ? '' 
said Peggy , with some confusion , but with the effort to look archly . 
The last time I was at Springdale there was Jack Gordon , Joe Hitt , and the Miller , afore Mr. Bronson 's door , and all a little corned . 
They got to cutting at me because I always walk by your side to church ; and Jack Gordon asked me if I did it to keep the dogs off . 
I told him I was not big enough to keep the dogs off ; but that I was too much for a puppy . 
At this he got right red in the face , and the other fellers laughed at him . 
Then he asked me if I had ever kissed you . 
Well I hav ` nt kissed you since I was so high , though I am your born cousin ; but I told him that if I had he had n't . 
`` If you had heard Jack Gordon ? '' 
`` He lies , '' said Peggy , `` he never kissed me ; I never scarcely shake hands with him . 
But you believed him , you mean thing , you believed him ; and so you do n't go with me to meeting and about , because I 'm your cousin , and for relationship , but to keep a watch on me ? 
`` Hangnation to Jack Gordon , the gun , and everything ! '' 
`` No , she 's out ; what would you with my Peggy , Jack Gordon ? '' 
proceeded Jack , without answering the question . 
was it you that took him to the circus , Jack Gordon ? 
`` He took himself , I suppose ; I saw him there . '' 
`` Well , well , an ' do you know anything of this money , of this counterfeiting . 
Jack Gordon , you 've been misleading him . '' 
exclaimed Jack , starting ; `` who said I misled him ? '' 
`` I say so : you 've been putting races and circuses in his head , this long time ; and now you see what 's come of it . '' 
I know nothing about it ; and as for the circus , I see no more harm in the circus than some people do in the meeting-house . '' 
said Gordon ; and , after lingering a moment , he arose and , bidding the old woman good night , left the cabin . 
Gordon mounted his horse and road slowly to a clump of trees that stood in an old field , some twenty yards from the house , when he dismounted and fastened his horse within the shadow . 
After doing this , Gordon placed himself with his back to a tree , in a situation to command a view of the lane that led by Granny Gammon 's to Holly . 
He had not remained there long when , on hearing footsteps approaching from the village , he stepped forth , and met the person , who proved to be Peggy . 
He had gained her side , and addressed her before she observed him . 
`` Is that you , Mr. Gordon ? '' 
`` Have done with that , Jack Gordon ; I 'm in no humour for such talk to night -- good evening ; Granny 's alone , and it 's late . '' 
Gordon , however , kept her side , and asked : `` Peggy , what does all this mean ? 
`` What do I care for Bobby 's being against it ? 
Gordon compressed his lips , as if with a stern resolution he was suppressing an emotion ; and then said , soothingly : `` Peggy , if you 'll consent to that -- if you say you 'll have me , Bobby shall be cleared . 
As Gordon spoke , he took Peggy 's hand ; when the sound of some one approaching caused her to start , and hasten towards her grandmother 's . 
Gordon , with a noiseless step , proceeded to the clump of trees , where he stood watching for the walker to go by , e 're he mounted his horse . 
The starlight was bright enough to suffer him to observe the direction the passer-by took . 
It was directly to Granny Gammon 's ; which he entered immediately after Peggy . 
When the door had closed on the visiter , Gordon trod with noiseless steps to the house , and , placing himself beside the window , where he could look in unobserved , and overhear what was said , he remained for nearly a quarter of an hour . 
He then repaired again to the clump of trees , and when the cottage door opened , to suffer the departure of the visiter , which Gordon knew by the flashing forth of the light , he mounted his horse and rode forward , apparently with the wish to overtake him , though at some distance from the house . 
On reaching the individual , he said , in a respectful tone : -- `` Mr. Sidney Fitzhurst , is that you ? '' 
`` Yes , it is I ; are you Jack Gordon ? '' 
Which way did you come out ? '' 
`` Good night , Jack , '' replied Sidney as he proceeded homeward . 
Gordon turned his horse as if it were his intention to visit Springdale , but after Sidney was out of hearing of the animal 's steps he spurred at a brisk rate towards the city . 
If his object was to gain the city as soon as possible a cut through the hills was certainly much shorter than the roundabout way of the road ; but then the difficulties in this direction were held hazardous both to man and beast . 
However , there did not appear any great management of the steed on his part , though , no doubt , the rider was capable of it . 
Gordon had perhaps penetrated seven miles into the hills , when he came to a place where the stream ran deep and narrow for a considerable distance between overhanging precipices . 
Here it was so dark that Gordon could scarcely see his hand before him ; yet horse and rider advanced recklessly into the stream , as if its bed were their road . 
Before , however , he reached the opening , Gordon turned his horse to the right , and spurring him up a steep ledge of rock , he stopped where two huge trees were entirely covered with clustering vines , that descended in such luxuriance from their topmost branches as to dip in the water . 
Here Gordon dismounted , and busied himself in removing the brush-wood , while he did so he imitated the rough note of the screach-owl , when a portion of the rock appeared to give way , disclosing an aperture large enough to admit the horse . 
Well , I went into the circus , and there I saw Jack Gordon and a whole parcel of fellows . 
Jack Gordon knows I did ; for the pin somehow came out of my pocket where I pined the money in , and it dropped out just as I was standing talking to him . 
The money was wrapped up in a bit of printed paper ; and Gordon said -LRB- it was near by Colonel Bentley 's lodging place that I met him -RRB- ; he says to me , ` Bobby , you dropped something . ' 
Jack Gordon got me to drink with him , and so did another fellow . 
After the circus was out , when we got to the tavern where we were going to stay all night , I treated all round , and all I know is that the next morning I was seized while I was in bed , and accused of passing counterfeiting money . 
When they got me there , they threatened me awful , but then Jack Gordon came in -- and , and -- '' `` What about Jack Gordon , Bobby ? '' 
`` And Jack Gordon come to me , and asked me about it , and I told him everything . 
He said that he 'd stand my friend , but that it was an awful business ; he talked to the squire , and the squire said as how as Gordon asked it , that he would keep me locked up till evening in his own house and would not send me to jail ; and that , by that time , Gordon maybe could get some witnesses for me , and would let my friends know . 
Then Gordon come and spoke to me -- I asked him to keep it away from you if he thought I could be got off without telling you . 
He promised to do his best for me , and said he was all sorts of a friend of mine . 
There I staid in that room locked up , hour by hour ; you may know how I felt . 
While I was standing looking out the window near night time , I see Jack Gordon a laughing and talking in the road with the landlord and the man that searched my pockets , and they were laughing and as merry together as pick-pockets . 
Jack Gordon looked up at the window and saw me , and then they stopped talking together , and Jack said that he would be with me presently . 
There I staid . 
It grew long after night -- no Jack come , and I began to mistrust something , so I thought I 'd get off if I could -- I watched round , and after a while I got out of the window softly on to a shed , slipped down into the yard , climbed the fence , and after puzzling about the town at an awful rate , I found the market , and then I knew which way to strike for home -- Hangnation . '' 
Two hours or more after his mysterious entrance into the cave , in the dead of the night , the quick tramp of his horse 's feet might have been heard in the purlieus of the city . 
Gordon kept his seat on his horse until after the echoes of its footsteps had died away , apparently for the purpose of listening if any one approached . 
All was silent ; and he threw himself from the horse , peeped into the room through the shutter where the light shone forth , and then with confidence stepped to the door , and gave three distinct raps . 
The person who admitted Gordon was a tall and remarkably slim man , who seemed , as the vulgar phrase is , double-jointed , for he appeared to have the power of bending in any direction . 
His forehead was villanously low , and his nose long and snipe-like , with very narrow nostrils ; nothwithstanding which , he did that member the honour to speak through it . 
He had a small , twinkling , gray eye , which was keenly suspicious in its glance , and conveyed to you the idea that its possessor was both cunning and timid . 
He was so ; though more than once the hope of great gain had led him into acts of daring that had surprised himself . 
`` Benbow , let me see , my chap , '' said Gordon to the worthy we have described , for such was his name . 
`` The bird has flown , '' said Benbow , trying to throw an honest expression into his face , for he was aware that such was not its habitual one , for even when he told the truth his face seemed to contradict him . 
He bid Gordon say when , as he poured the liquor in a tumbler which that worthy held for the purpose , and it was not until the glass had lost more than half its natural hue , that the word was pronounced . 
Sidneywith his wounded friend reached Holly with less difficulty than he had imagined . 
Pinckney 's loss of blood , though , was considerable ; and on being placed in his chamber , it was with great difficulty he was kept from fainting . 
Pompey was immediately despatched to the city for the best medical aid . 
In reply to the message , he learned that Gordon was not there ; that he had said , on leaving , he should be absent a week or more . 
At the expiration of that time Gordon returned to the village ; but without waiting on Sidney sent , by Joe Hitt , with apologies for not calling in person , the name and residence of the magistrate from whose house Bobby had escaped . 
Gordon asked Hitt to say that he would have gone in person to Holly , but that he had pressing business that took him away . 
That day as Sidney was proceeding to the city , for the purpose of seeing Benbow , he stopped at the village , and there saw Gordon himself , who gave him a full account of all he knew of the matter , as he asserted , making , as he did , so many protestations of his friendship for Bobby . 
Gordon offered to accompany Sidney to the magistrate 's ; but Sidney said it was not worth while , and proceeded thither alone . 
`` If I were to meet Jack Gordon , '' thought Peggy , as she drew near grandmother 's , `` I 'd be bound I 'd tell him a piece of my mind . 
I always had a misgiving , just like one of granny 's dreams , that he would bring trouble on me . '' 
The adage , which says talk of a certain person and he appears , was not verified in this instance , perhaps it might have been because Peggy was only thinking . 
The result is , that the worthless hag describes him as her ` true lover , ' as you , or she would call it , and when he offers himself she considers it destiny , and takes him . '' 
`` It is recorded of Tom Foote , the celebrated wit , '' said Sidney , `` that he , by turning fortune-teller for a friend of his , Lord Debaral -- if I remember rightly -- got five thousand pounds -- at any rate , a very large sum . 
The mill was of rude stone construction , and nothing was left but its bare and blackened walls . 
`` You must have me ; I 've sworn it ; and through death and destruction I 'll wade before I let you off . '' 
He kept up with her , however , and seemed to be aware of the effect which he had produced , and by such means he hoped to control her , for he said : `` I 'll see you dead before I 'll suffer you to jilt me in this way . 
You must stop here on this very spot , and give me your promise , or worse will come of it ; '' and as Gordon spoke , he stopped and seized her hand , but in an instant he released his grasp on hearing the voices of persons who were evidently advancing towards them . 
`` At least promise to say nothing about this , '' he said ; `` I 'll come and see you to morrow -- do n't make me desperate . '' 
Gordon turned for a moment as if with the intention of passing towards the hills , and then , with a careless air , followed Peggy , who soon met those whose voices they had heard . 
`` There , Jack Gordon ! '' 
`` I 'm man enough for you , Jack Gordon ! '' 
said Bobby , poising himself upon his longest leg , and supporting his equilibrium with the point of his lame one . 
`` Ha , ha , ha ! '' 
laughed Gordon , in bitter derision . 
Jack Gordon was there knocking round and spending money like dirt , and corned at that ; so he takes a chance for five dollars -- he 's always good luck -- so he wins her . 
Then he come to me and made friends , you know , that is , he wanted to -- he spent money , hard silver , treating the fellows at my booth all day . 
So I could ` nt but be civil to him , inasmuch as he said as how he was in a pet when he said them aggravating things . 
Well , he stuck to it that I should take the cow and calf ; he 'd let 'em go , he said , at twenty , cash . 
There 'd been a fellow treating round at my booth , an ' I had changed a twenty for him ; there , said Jack Gordon , give me that note and take the cow and calf . 
Well , you know , Cousin Peggy , if I do n't like Jack Gordon , a bargain 's a bargain , an ' I 'd just as lieve get one out of him as any body . 
Now Granny 'll have a cow , wo n't she ? '' 
Here Gordon entered the cabin , and said , in a tone , of which he could not stifle the malignity : `` He 'll not deny it : where is it ? '' 
The constable , rough as he appeared , was struck with compassion on beholding the aged and sick grandmother , as she opened her eyes , and gazed on them in bewilderment , and the unutterable astonishment and anguish depicted in Peggy 's features ; he therefore said to Bobby : `` See , Bob Gammon , I just say to you , that you need n't say anything to criminate yourself unless you choose . '' 
said Bobby , in seeming amazement , `` I do n't understand : let me look at it -- yes , I did give Jack Gordon that bill for his cow ; at any rate a bill a good deal like , for it had just such a cross on the corner . '' 
`` Yes , '' said the constable , `` these notes are on the same bank . 
You lay it at his door , and my door , and I a dying woman , and his grandmother . 
You know , John Gordon , in your heart -- I see it in your face -- you know he is as innocent as the babe unborn . 
No , you 've beset him , and you 've beset my Peggy -- and you 've come in my dying hour -- and all in hate . 
Gordon looked on conscience-smitten , and appalled , but on Aunt Agnes saying to him : `` That if Bobby was innocent he had an awful sin to answer for , '' he rallied and replied : -- `` Did he deny passing the money on me ? 
`` Peggy , come here , I tell you , '' he said , again , in a commanding tone , and stamping with his foot upon the floor . 
`` You 're enough to make the dead body rise and drive you out , '' said Aunt Agnes in deep indignation ; `` begone , or I 'll call the constable and bid him take you . '' 
The persons who had left with Bobby in custody , stood within a few steps of the cabin , seemingly waiting for him . 
If he were guilty he therefore had a double motive for fixing the charge on Bobby ; viz. , to clear his own skirts , and to revenge himself upon the Gammons . 
High words grew between them , till at last he told Gordon that it was his belief that he knew it was a counterfeit ; and that he believed it was not the first time he had it knowingly in his possession . 
At this Gordon knocked the tavern-keeper down . 
The publican was an arrant coward , and there fore he made no attempts at retaliation , but gathered himself up , and forthwith repaired to the magistrate , who issued a warrant against Gordon , both on the charge of passing counterfeit money , and for the assault and battery . 
There was no proof against him , and he was discharged , when he obtained a warrant against Bobby , stating that he had received the note from him in payment for the cow , and that he believed the boy had quantities of it . 
He repeated the charge which he had made against Bobby at the boy 's grandmothers ' , though more circumstantially , being under oath . 
When he got through , Bobby said he did n't deny it , that he gave Gordon the note in payment for the cow , and that he received it from a man whom he did not know by name , but whom he would recognise should he ever meet him . 
He was , however , completely stricken dumb ; when another witness , whose testimony was corroborated by the constable , produced a tin box filled with counterfeit paper on the same bank with the note passed on Gordon , and made oath that he found it without the door of Granny Gammon 's cabin , between the logs . 
Jack Gordon asked me to let him look at it , and I took my money out of it , and give it to him . '' 
`` Did n't I give it back to you ? '' 
Without noticing the remark of Gordon , Bobby said to the magistrate : `` The box was give to me by Jack Gordon in the city , at the circus , when I got into that other counterfeiting scrape . 
I had it ever since till to day ; he told me it was a good thing to keep money in , an ' I kept mine in it . 
As I said he gave it back to me , and , somehow , a little time afterwards , I lost it on the race-ground , or it was stolen from me . '' 
A few minutes afterwards , without saying a word , Bobby entered the jail in the custody of the constable , followed by Gordon , who told the officer in a whisper that he thought he could get something out of the boy about the gang of counterfeiters , if he would let him hold a little private discourse with him . 
The jailer willingly consented , and Bobby and Gordon were shown into a kind of anti-room , and left together . 
`` Say what you want to say , at once , Jack Gordon ; what are you afraid of ? '' 
Gordon paused for a moment , and snuffed with his fingers the slim tallow-candle which the jailer had left on an old oaken table near which the boy stood . 
`` Jack Gordon , '' said Bobby , firmly , `` I 'd see my Cousin Peggy dead , stone dead beside my old granny , and rot in the penitentiary , before I 'd do that . '' 
`` Then you shall rot there , '' muttered Gordon , as he passed out of the room , and closed the door after him . 
`` I ca n't get much out of him , '' said Gordon to the jailor , as that worthy proceeded to let him out of the prison . 
`` He 's a rum one -- he 'll die with his shoes on . '' 
As the door closed on Gordon , he stepped out in front of the jail from which the crowd had dispersed , and eyed the building , as if he would scrutinize its power of detaining the unfortunate lad . 
Then , with a lowering brow , he turned away , and walked quickly through the village . 
AfterAunt Agnes shut the door on Gordon , she went to the bed and composed decently the body of the deceased . 
As she thus reflected , she summoned resolution to look behind , and distinctly saw the figure of a man approaching her . 
His passions , however , soon resumed their sway . 
`` Peggy , '' said Gordon ; and he stepped before , and facing , prevented her advancing ; `` I was not born in the woods to be scared by an owl . 
She muttered to herself , unconscious of his presence , `` Cheerfully I would lay down my life to save him . '' 
`` John Gordon , '' said Peggy , folding her arms , and standing firmly , `` not now ; I will not go with you now to village or to city . 
`` Give me your hand , then , '' said Gordon with an eager exultation , which he could not conceal , `` and swear to me that you will marry me . '' 
Gordon stood as if he wished to follow Peggy , but feared the effect upon his plans . 
`` I 've got her , '' he said ; `` I 've got the true hold on her at last . 
`` No , it 's too late , '' he resumed ; `` she 's off . 
Well , I must use fair words . 
With this righteous reflection Gordon turned once more towards Springdale ; taking care , however , from the influence of a superstitious dread , which he could not overcome , to make a wide path to avoid passing near the cabin where the dead body of Granny Gammon lay . 
It was in the course of nature : and if it warnt in the course of natur , it was Jack Gordon 's fault ; and he done the whole of this ; but who minds what a coloured person says . '' 
Bobby insisted upon it , that Gordon 's object was to deceive her as well as himself , and obtained her promise that she would drop the idea of trying to save him in that way , as it would ruin them both . 
As Squire Norris observed , when he committed Bobby , the `` county court was sitting , and he 'd have a quick trial '' -- it appeared that such was to be the fact ; for the day after his grandmother 's funeral the grand jury found a bill against him for passing counterfeit money . 
`` Yes , '' said one fellow , standing amidst a group before the jail door awaiting the forthcoming of Bobby , `` I expect he 'll take the full term -- and it 's right ; a man what ca n't boast of much larning like myself is constantly taken in by these ` ere chaps what lives on community . 
Bobby listen -- just say so -- and I 'll go out an ' get Gordon to hurry away ; I saw him as I came here , an ' he wanted to speak to me , but I would n't -- just say so an ' I 'll see him and mar -- '' `` No , Cousin Peggy , I would ` nt say so to save my life , said Bobby -- an ' I said that before . '' 
When he caught her eye , he nodded his head slightly sideways , as much as to bid her leave the court , as she interpreted it , and he would join her -- but she turned her eye from him . 
In a few moments she could not resist stealing a glance at him ; his head was turned towards the bench , and he stood with his arms folded in a resolute manner . 
As Pompey was known to most persons about the court-house , he had contrived to get within the railing that kept the crowd from intruding on the bar , where he stood partly screened by a pillar , and endeavouring to pass unobserved , but to get as near to Bobby as possible . 
When the clerk had read the indictment , and the question was asked of the prisoner , `` What say you -- guilty or not guilty , '' Bobby replied in a clear tone -- `` Gentlemen and judges , I do n't deny as how that I bought a cow and calf from Jack Gordon , and that I paid him , mayhap , with bad money ; but as God is my judge , I took it for good money , and I thought it was good money when I passed it . '' 
Pinckney puzzled over the features , and particularly the form of Gordon , in strange perplexity , for he could not remove the impression from his mind that he had seen him before , but when , or where , he could not possibly divine . 
With characteristic swagger and indifference to those around him , Gordon gave in his testimony . 
He related the facts of the sale of the cow and calf , and the payment of the note by Bobby , as they occurred . 
Here Mr. Mason told Gordon to confine himself to the case before the court -- and Gordon said he had nothing more to say further , except that when he left the cabin the constable showed him a tin box , containing money such as Bobby had passed on him , which was found between the logs by the door . 
`` Because he put it thar himself -- and , gentlemen all , if God of his ` finite mercy , would just for two minutes put a white skin on me and make me a witness , I 'd swear to it , and prove it , for I saw Jack Gordon do it . '' 
Before the sheriff could get to the spot where Pompey stood to take him into custody , for county courts have not as many officers in attendance as city ones , Mr. Mason arose and observed -- `` May it please the court , there is something in this I would fain understand -- '' `` I understand it , '' said Lupton , springing to his feet , `` that boy -- '' `` You must also understand , sir , that I am not to be interrupted , '' said Mason , with a glance on Lupton that quailed him to his seat . 
`` 'Cause , master , I could n't help it , though I know a coloured person ca n't give testimony ; I could n't help it ; for I diskivered and observed Jack Gordon with my own eyes put that tin box thar before he went into the house . '' 
`` Who did you ever tell this to before ? '' 
I knew as how I could n't be of any sarvice to Mister Bobby , though he had done so much for me , an ' I kept it to myself , 'cause I knowed if I told it I 'd get myself into trouble , and it would ` nt help nobody ; but in the court this day , when I seed Jack Gordon stand up thar so bold , and swear away Mister Bobby to the penitentiary , and poor Miss Peggy thar feeling so much , and Mister Bobby feeling so much , and I feeling so much , I could n't stand it ; and I spoke it , an ' I would ha ' spoke it if I had to die for it , '' said Pompey , folding his arms , while the dignity of truth was stamped as firmly on his black brow as ever it was on a white one . 
I was out the door , but I heard it ; she laid Mister Bobby 's falling off to Jack Gordon , and she spoke an awful curse on him just as she died . 
Miss Peggy would ` nt have him ; that 's it , Master Mason . 
But I 'm not telling it strait . 
Howsomever on I went , fast ahead ; one fellow , it was Gordon 's voice -- I could ` nt see them , mind master , for there ware no moon , and the starlight was uncertain like , but I know Jack Gordon 's voice any where , he called on me to stop . 
Just then , somehow , I mistrusted something , and I went on to make believe I was going by the house , and when I got beyond it , and behind it like , till it stood atwixt them and me , I turned quick round towards the door , and hid in some elder bushes by an old shed near by the house . '' 
`` How came you to mistrust something when you heard Jack Gordon 's voice ? '' 
`` Cause , master , Mister Bobby had told me that he believed Jack Gordon wanted to do him some evil . 
Well then , I hid in them elder bushes , and they comes up , without making any noise , and all of 'em but one goes in . 
I was as near to 'em , master , as I are to that fire-place ; I saw plain ; an ' I saw Jack Gordon touch the man what stood in the door , an ' then I saw something white shine in Jack Gordon 's hand , and I diskivered and obsarved him put it plump right between the logs of the cabin by the door , -- an ' when he knowed that the other man seed him , he pushed right into the house . '' 
`` What did you do , then ? '' 
`` Then I staid there till they fetched Master Bobby out , to take him afore Squire Norris : an ' when they fetched him out , a man , and he must ha ' been the same one what held open the door , and saw Gordon put the box between the logs , went to the place an ' took out the tin box , an ' he give it to somebody , and told him to mind and hold it fast , for that he believed there was counterfeit money in it ; he said it shined , and that made him find it . 
Then Gordon came out , and wanted 'em to search the house ; but they told him they had enough to do for Master Bobby , and so they dragged him off afore Squire Norris , and then to jail ; fur I followed behind em ' , and saw jist how they acted . 
You see , Master Mason , I diskivered Jack Gordon , and a parcel of other chaps , cutting extras ` bout our booth all day , and spending money ; an ' I thought things were going wrong then : cause Master Bobby got in trouble once afore about such money , an ' I believe , with his Granny , what 's dead and gone , that it was Jack Gordon 's doings . '' 
`` You ride fast , sir , '' said Pinckney , anxious to discover something of the character of the man , who had interested him , not only on Bobby 's account , but he knew not why . 
yes ; sometimes fast , sometimes slow , '' replied Gordon , in a voice that was harsh and husky , in the first words , but which he subdued , at the same time he checked his horse , and again gave him the rein , so as to keep pace with Pinckney . 
`` How far do you ride ? '' 
Gordon thrust his hand in his pocket , and reined back his horse so quickly that the animal was thrown on his haunches . 
Maybe you 're like old Pompey , Mr. Pinckney ; you saw me do what never entered my head . '' 
Gordon seemed to have passed into the woods , for his horse 's hoofs no longer rattled in the road , and Pinckney thought he heard the rustling of leaves and the breaking of sticks under his tread . 
Pinckney 's suspicions naturally attached to Gordon , and he arrived at Langdale 's pretty well satisfied in his own mind that it was Gordon who had assaulted him before . 
The more he thought of the affair the stronger were his convictions that his suspicions were just , and he determined to have Gordon arrested on his appearance in the court the next morning , when he reflected it would be of no use , as he had no testimony against him . 
When Pinckney entered Langdale 's it was some time after dark . 
As Pinckney assented , he threw his eye upon the messenger , who was just entering the room , and was surprised to see no other than the individual who , he supposed , had attempted to murder him -- the witness against Bobby -- Jack Gordon . 
He started with even more surprise than Pinckney , and looked as if he expected to be charged with something or other . 
When he found himself in the street , by the directest course he proceeded to that of Benbow , who dwelt at least a mile off , in an obscure part of the city . 
His quick eye detected a figure under the shade of the lamp as he passed , and in his suspicious mind the wonder instantly occurred , what the designs of the person were . 
He hurried on , and began to fear that he was dogged ; so , to avoid the consequences , he called a hack , and , stepping in , ordered the hackman to drive to a certain square , which was some distance above Benbow 's . 
I envy the life of a sportman , '' continued he , throwing himself into a chair ; `` the world has no cares for them , and we constables nothing to do with them , except when they bungle in a professional way , and then they deserve punishment for bungling , if for nothing else . '' 
`` I agree with you there , '' replied Jack ; `` if I had ` nt , I should ` nt have chosen the trade myself -- but it has its perplexities . '' 
yes ; and there was a contempt of Jack Gordon that I would ` nt take from a white man , let alone a negro . 
I met him about ten miles from here , and suddenly presenting old Smith 's warrant at him , told him I arrested him . 
`` It so strikes me , '' said Jack . 
There was no more virtue in it , than if Gordon was to fill up a warrant , or you were to pass judgment on a man . 
`` Mean ! 
He was also painfully anxious to know the result , and after a moment 's reflection it occurred to him , that Benbow 's suspicious fears had always prevented him from keeping anything to criminate himself about his house . 
Gordon pushed his chair involuntarily back , as if he meant to rise when he saw Pinckney , but kept his seat . 
`` Do n't be disturbed , gentlemen ; do n't be disturbed , '' said Ross , politely ; `` pleasure is pleasure , but business is business . 
`` Let him prove it , '' said Gordon taking his seat and the hint together , and looking at Pinckney with malignant defiance . 
He was followed by the jeweller , who gave the account of Gordon 's bringing it to him to be altered : he swore further , positively to his identity . 
Gordon drew his watch from his pocket as the examination proceeded , and his countenance was relieved , apparently , of all care . 
`` There , sir , '' said he to Pinckney , scornfully , as he took from the inner seal of his watch-chain a locket which could not be distinguished from the one Pinckney claimed . 
Pinckney received the locket as Gordon offered it , found it in every respect like his own , and , touching a spring , disclosed his own likeness . 
It was one which , in fact , he had given in Italy to Miss Atherton , when he had received her 's . 
`` Where did you get this ? '' 
`` Let me look at it , '' said Jessop , and he took it in his hand , and , after examining it , said , `` Yes , this certainly is the locket -- he did not disclose the miniature then , but now , when I close it and examine it , I do n't think I can possibly be mistaken . '' 
`` Let me look at it , '' said Benbow , and after examining it also , he remarked -- `` I never knew it held a likeness , but I 've seen this in Jack 's -- in Gordon 's -- possession six months ago , I 'm certain . '' 
I have been at fault to-night most damnably -- it is perfect hocus-pocus . 
`` Very -- very sorry , indeed , '' said Benbow , stammering , `` that I ca n't see as you do -- no harm meant , Mr. Pinckney -- but with my own eyes I saw Gordon have that locket six months ago , so did Jessop ; one he had then , even before this alleged robbery ; the other , the match to it , because he happened to have after the robbery , and take to a jeweller to have altered , that 's no reason that he robbed Mr. Pinckney , no more reason than that he robbed the lady ; and Mr. Pinckney is willing to swear that this is the lady 's . 
`` Benbow , this gentleman goes as he went ; there shall be no virtue in any process of yours in relation to him to-night . 
Jack -LRB- to Gordon -RRB- , you 'll have to bring your action of replevin or trover against me for this jewelry , for you shall not have it until you do . '' 
Gordon gazed on the resolute countenance of Ross , and , changing his tone , burst into a laugh , saying : `` Ross , you 're a case . 
`` Really you have a deal of curiosity -- I am an equestrian , as you know , and that person having heard that I had the desire to exhibit my skill in that way to the citizens here , came to boast of the qualities of an animal he has , by way of effecting a sale -- '' `` Where is the locket , if I may ask , which I gave you in Florence ? '' 
He entered the court , and found the judge on the bench , and the jury in the box , waiting the coming of the witness . 
Suffice it to say , that I understood from him that he met Gordon , the prosecuting witness , in town last night , and left him at an eating-house at two o'clock this morning , when Gordon told him that he should not be here to-day : perhaps your honours had better have Jessop sworn as to that fact . '' 
He stated that he met Gordon at Benbow 's , whither he himself was despatched on business , and that he afterwards fell in with him at an eating-house , and that , as he was leaving it , Gordon called him back , and told him to present his compliments to their honours , and say that if he should not be here in time to-day they need not wait for him , as he had business of his own , which was of more consequence to him than the State 's . 
Here the prosecuting attorney arose , much against the wish of Mr. Lupton ; and stated that he did not think it was proper for him to press the case any further , as from circumstances which had within a few minutes come to his knowledge , and which he meant to place before the grand-jury at their next sitting , he was satisfied that the prisoner was entirely guiltless , and a much injured person . 
About eleven o'clock on the night after the adventure at Benbow 's , Ross hurried from the theatre to his domicil , and entirely changed his clothes , selecting , from a number of suits , one which seemed made for a country wagoner , in which , with great attention to the character in which he was to appear , he arrayed himself . 
Gordon sat before the hearth , with his left arm leaning on the table , on which was a black bottle of brandy , and a tumbler . 
A woman , careless in her attire , but whose countenance and form exhibited the faded remains of what once had been great beauty , busied herself about the apartment , seemingly with no other purpose than to notice , unobserved , her companion , for she drew out the trunk , and replaced it without taking any article from it -- the while throwing hurried and anxious glances on him . 
exclaimed the woman , in accents of the deepest tenderness ; `` I hav ` nt seen you much lately , and I am so sorry to see you troubled ; '' and , as she spoke , she went up to him and wept upon his shoulder , but he rudely pushed her aside , remarking : `` Damn it ! 
why do you come with your tears to me ; be contented now ; that hussey that I wanted you to fix up here for , is not coming : I do n't know that I am ever coming again ; so content yourself . 
Gordon raised his fist in the act of striking her , when she said : `` John , do n't strike me ; the woman up stairs will hear you , and she 's decent and orderly , and has promised to get me something to do . '' 
`` John , do n't drink any more ; you always seem to fear most when you have drank the most -- '' `` Woman , afterwards -- afterwards , but at the time not ; the boldest things I 've done was then . 
Thesilence of Gordon and his wife , for she was no other , was interrupted by a gentle tap of the widow from above stairs at their door . 
`` Nobody , John , but Mrs. Baxter from up stairs -- shall I let her in ? 
`` For God 's sake , John , '' said his wife to him when they were left alone ; `` do n't pass that money on him . '' 
`` For the devil 's sake , and that 's your own , keep your tongue , or I 'll knock you down . 
No , then , '' he said , as the sudden thought struck him ; `` I wo n't pass it on him , you shall do it yourself . '' 
`` It 's good if kept in subjection , '' said Gordon , handing him the tumbler , and apologising for having but the one ; like fire , it 's a good servant but bad master . 
`` No , no ; not exactly . 
In a big city like this , men , though , might live forever and never know each other . 
`` I suppose she ought to be willing to accommodate her neighbours ; she says that Mrs. Baxter has been very kind to her . '' 
They drank over the proposition , and shook hands ; Gordon staggering as they did so , for he was intoxicated , when the wagoner , on leaving the room , said to Mrs. Baxter , that he had left his whip in her room and would get it . 
She accordingly went with him . 
`` Give me a pen and ink , '' said Ross ; `` I do n't want to make myself known to my man at the stable , and I must take an order to him from myself . 
`` Because , my dear John , he eyed you so very closely when you were looking away from him . 
I do n't know why it is , but I think he means you some wrong . '' 
`` A woman 's reason . 
`` But , do n't do it -- do n't do it , John ; think that here would be this woman to swear that he left the house with you -- and about the money , too . '' 
you gave it to him ; and they ca n't bring the guilty knowledge home to me -- and , to put you at ease , nor you , either . '' 
`` John , I did not hesitate because I thought of myself -- there he comes down stairs ; you must do as you choose -- but I wish you were more of yourself . 
`` He did , hey ? 
-- well , that 's the reason he takes me to be honest ; there ' something in the fellow 's tone that I have heard before -- or it might have been only the liquor . 
In a miscellaneous , common-place conversation , in which each tried to disguise his true character , and which was not kept up as briskly as it had commenced , owing to the rapid rattling of their horse 's hoofs , our new acquaintances proceeded onward . 
The exercise of riding , and the freshness of the night air , which was invigorating and wholesome , though it sighed through the forest as if mourning for the green glories of summer , soon sobered Gordon ; and , not having the most distant recollection of what had occurred , a morbid suspicion was possessing his mind , which was not only a part of his mental constitution , but which was greatly increased by the decaying excitement of his frequent potations . 
Gordon broke a long silence , after they had proceeded some ten miles , by observing : `` A damn good horse that of your 's , stranger -- as far as I can see he 's well kept ; you must be fond of a nag . '' 
In a moment afterwards he came out with a glass of brandy in one hand and a light in the other , and said to Ross : `` Here -- I never drink alone . '' 
The assumed wagoner , or farmer , started , but recovering his self-possession , instantly replied : `` I thought , stranger , that you were agoing to charge me with stealing him ; I bought him this morning from a chap they call Ross -- a peace officer , I believe . '' 
`` I 'll be with you , then , in a moment , '' observed Gordon , and he entered the tavern and returned with a segar , when he mounted his horse , and they rode on to the cross roads . 
A brisk ride soon took them to it . 
Gordon alighted at the door , and thundered away with the butt-end of his whip for some time before there appeared any indications of inhabitancy , saving the fierce yelping of a cur , mingled with the growl of a large house-dog . 
The host , after consulting with his wife , who occupied together a bed-room adjoining the bar , which also served for a parlour , said that he could give them beds in a room back of their 's , but they 'd have to take them as they were . 
Ross asked to be shown to it , when Gordon said he would look after his beast , and went out accordingly , remarking : `` I 'll soon be back -- I 'm sleepy . '' 
`` Yes , it 's Ross ; he 's feeling to see if the nest 's warm -- the bird 's off . 
`` Do your own revenge then , Jack . '' 
`` Yes , the pair of us . 
`` And we ought to do it ; low , speak low . 
These plans were all matured so as to have Tom at the window to shoot him if he attempted to escape through it , while Pounder , Bully Ben , and Gordon , were to make him captive in the room . 
Gordon then entered the house with a careless whistle , and found him seated by the table , reading : `` You take it coolly , my new friend , after such a hard ride , '' said Gordon , throwing himself on his bed , carelessly . 
`` Always do , '' replied Ross . 
`` Certainly , Gordon , my friend , '' resumed Ross , without testifying the least surprise , `` and both of us false clothes -- business is business . '' 
exclaimed Gordon , and as he spoke he sprang to his feet , while Bully Ben and Pounder rushed in . 
Ross made no attempt to escape or to draw his weapons . 
`` Precisely , '' replied Ross , `` we 're all busters , as you call them , if we are great men in our line -- boys , you 're busters , too -- Bully Ben 's a buster , and as to Gordon here , he 's a buster , equal to the biggest of you . '' 
`` A great mistake , Jack , '' retorted Ross ; `` did n't we part fair friends that night at Benbow 's ? 
asked Jack . 
`` Liquor , Jack -- liquor ! '' 
Gordon and his companions called out to Hall to humour the joke , and preparations were made accordingly . 
At this moment there was heard without the rapid trampling of horses . 
Gordon glanced wildly round , while the full force of his situation broke over his bewildered faculties , and he exclaimed : `` No , no ; give me brandy -- brandy ! '' 
Proceeding to get it himself , Ross handed it to him with the remark : `` I told you , Jack , it was your worst enemy . '' 
Frommotives of humanity , when Ross returned to the city , which was immediately on his securing Gordon in jail , he called to see Mrs. Gordon , and break to her her husband 's fate , and contribute his mite to the relief of her distress . 
The afflicted woman had been out till past dinner-time , roaming the streets in the hope of getting some employment to obtain a meal , and with a vague anticipation that she might see or hear something of her former mistress , and thereby gain an opportunity , after extorting a promise from her not to do Gordon any injury , to inform her of his threats ; for her gratitude to Miss Atherton was ever abiding in his memory , and like a fountain ever flowing . 
Her efforts had been vain in tracing her mistress , or obtaining food . 
said she . 
I tell you plainly , there is no chance for him ; if he escapes an indictment for counterfeiting and another for perjury against a boy , I think they 'll fix on him the robbery of Mr. Pinckney . 
what Mr. Pinckney ? '' 
`` Certainly ; and I do n't see what he was doing there unless to beg off from Mr. Pinckney , but he was at Mr. Langdale 's . 
`` Sit down and tell me what has happened to you ? 
`` I did ; but first excuse me , Miss Clara : you know the character of Gordon -- he is now in jail , at a place called Springdale , for counterfeiting and other crimes -- excuse me -- but can he in any way do you any injury ? 
`` Me an injury -- why , Catharine ? '' 
`` Because , last night when in his cups he -- but you promise me to tell it to no one to his harm -- '' `` Certainly not ; I 'll only use what you tell me in self-defence . '' 
`` Miss Clara , I owe you so much that I am bound to tell you what he said : he threatened you , and said if he was not so much taken up with his own risk that he could get hush-money out of somebody , whom I thought he meant you . 
-- where did you say Gordon was ? 
Did he ever tell you any way in which he could injure me ? '' 
`` Never , '' replied Catharine ; `` I have only been with him a few months ; he left me behind in the old country . 
At times he would speak against you ; but I do n't think he liked you after you made him marry me . '' 
`` Likely -- that 's it . 
Now tell me about yourself , Catharine . '' 
We got very poor , my child died , and he took me to London , where , in a few months , after trying to make me an outcast , he abandoned me , and came to this country . 
Come and see me to-morrow -- be punctual , Catharine ; no foolish errand to Springdale to see him and let him couzen or beat your money from you ; he is better as he is : if he has not money he will get no drink but what is good for him -- and abstinence from intoxication may reform him . '' 
Here the servant entered with a card in her hand , which she gave to Miss Atherton , which the lady looked at peculiarly , and said : `` Tell Miss Fitzhurst that I will be down in a moment ; and say to my maid I do not want her . 
In reply to which inquiry , Fanny gave an account of his conduct to Peggy and Bobby , and of his desire to marry the former . 
After a very long call , Fanny took her leave , pressing Miss Atherton to call and see her soon , and explaining that they were not spending the winter in the city in consequence of her father 's gout . 
After Bobby 's deliverance , the man who had committed the assault and battery , the only other prisoner then in jail , had been released ; and in his gloomy and silent solitude , Gordon felt it would be relief if he could hear the clanking of any other fetters in unison with his own . 
As he lay upon his miserable mattrass , the intense solitude which sometimes would reign over the quiet village would press upon his brain like the weight of mountains , and he would impulsively toss up his hands as if to remove it . 
The least sound that came to his ears was welcomed , for it relieved his mind in his efforts to divine what occasioned it . 
The solitary mouse that stole across his prisonfloor he tried to allure nearer to him with crumbs of bread thrown as noiselessly to it as the feathery fall of the snow ; and when the motion of his hand would start the little pilferer back again , he would groan in the anguish of his guilt , and fancy even the tiny animal knew the depravity of his heart , and shunned him because he was friendless . 
His nerves were utterly unstrung by his long course of dissipation , and he would fancy in the midst of day that darkness encompassed him , and ten thousand fiends were heaping living coals of red-hot fire upon his heart . 
how the poor wretch begged , and begged in vain -- for it was against the regulations of the prison -- for a little brandy , to give him nerve . 
At other times , in the midst of the night , he would fancy it broad day -- but a strange , unnatural day , in which the sunbeams whirled and whisked about him like witches in a dance . 
Sometimes they would assume the shape of spirits in air -- and it seemed wonderful to him how their features , in smallest miniature , not bigger than a pin 's point , could be so distinct . 
While he wondered how they would swell and bloat , and become loathsome and reptile-like , and come and crawl upon him , and thrust their forked tongues in his face , and belch forth breaths of fire , or of putrid rottenness . 
They seemed to creep into the soles of his feet , and into each finger , and steal into his veins and revel in his blood , until they gathered at last in one great knot about his heart , and fed upon it -- while the hair of his head became living serpents , and stung his eyes out . 
At other times he would fancy that a fair spirit of light descended from heaven into his room ; a visitant of mercy , who bade him confess , repent , and go free ; and when he had confessed all his crimes , she would turn into a denouncing angel , an accuser before the High Judge , and she would pour forth the vials of wrath upon his head , and he saw the mountains reeling and rolling towards him , yet they would not cover him , and could that feeble hand hold them from hiding him ! 
Then Ross called to him , and told him that if he had one single cent wherewith to pay toll of good money , that he should come forth , scott free ; and Gordon thought he turned his pockets inside out in search of the half-dollar that his wife gave him , but he had spent it in buying liquor and treating at the tavern where he and Ross stopped , and the counterfeit notes fell thick and fast around him . 
Awaking feverish and all athirst , he reached over for a draught , and the limpid stream turned to molten lava , and poured down his throat and burned his heart out , and he heard Ross call out in a tone of derision : `` I told you , Jack , it was your worst enemy . '' 
Gordon took him at first for a clergyman , but he proved to be Satan himself . 
Strange , but as he advanced to Gordon the bank notes under him seemed to moulder and grow cooler , and a fiendish glow of satisfaction ran through the prisoner 's veins . 
Gordon observed that his eye was a merry one , and though it certainly had a touch of deviltry in it -- it was merry deviltry , and not very malignant . 
His nose was too large rather , and too much hooked , and he was bald , with a little rein of hair above his ears , and a big tuft on his forehead like the forelock of time . 
His hair was originally black , but , having been so long amid the flames , it had got tinged with a crispy red here and there like the first gray hairs in the head of a gentleman growing elderly . 
`` Sir , '' said this personage , with great apparent cordiality and kindness , not unmingled with respect , `` you give yourself unnecessary uneasiness : most of those poor devils that were dancing about you have forfeited their souls forever , and yet you see they are quite merry . 
`` There , '' said he , offering him notes to countless amounts , `` are the means to gratify all your wants ! '' 
As Satan offered them , Gordon thought that Peggy , Bobby , his wife , and even Pompey , with tearful eyes , besought him not to take them -- but he stretched out his hand . 
Then the shade of his mother appeared to him , and , in tones of unutterable we , prayed him to touch not . 
`` But you have always disobeyed your mother , '' said the tempter ; `` why should you mind her now ? '' 
Then the voice of Granny Gammon called out to him that she would take back her curse if he would forbear . 
why should you forbear ? '' 
With tears and wailing , his mother and the rest disappeared , while Satan plunged a flaming pen into his breast , and drawing it out , dripping with blood , bade him seal the bond . 
He thought he said to them in the language of the player whom he had seen enacting Byron 's Manfred -- `` Back , ye baffled fiends -- '' and he laughed himself so loudly that he was startled at the echoes of his own tones . 
Then he thought he trod the earth again in the hot fulfilment of his revenge . 
how he thought he would scourge Pompey -- and he made the motion of a blow with his arm ; how he would gloat over Peggy , who should cringe at his feet , while Bobby stood impotently by . 
He thought he stopped at Springdale , and ordered a dinner and wines , while the landlord , and even the Fitzhursts ' and Pinckney , fawned around him . 
Onemorning , when Gordon had just recovered from one of those terrible visitations which almost amounted to madness , at an unusual hour , for it was not yet time for his midday meal , the wards of his prison doors were undrawn , and the jailor conducted into his presence no other person than Mr. Bronson . 
That worthy stepped back as he gazed on the haggard face of Gordon , on which the light from the solitary window fell with strong and contrasting force . 
He could hardly recognise in his altered features the reckless sportsman , who was in the habit of lounging about his store . 
Gordon nodded his head to Bronson in token of recognition , and , turning to the jailor , asked -- `` For God 's sake , put lighter fetters on me than these -- and give me a little brandy , just a drop -- or some opium -- laudanum . '' 
I 've told you fifty times afore that the sheriff says to me -- you know , Mr. Bronson , that our sheriff is a man of mettle and stern , an ' he always keeps his word -- Pike , says he to me , put the heaviest fetters in the jal on that Gordon , and grant him no indulgences whatever -- saving what the rules allow ; if he escapes you loose your place . '' 
`` Why should he feel that way towards me ? '' 
`` That 's the question you must ask yourself , '' replied the jailor . 
`` My respected and respectable friend , '' said Bronson , insinuatingly , to Pike , `` perhaps you had better let us have a little private talk . 
`` Late last night ; I saw Pike this morning just as I was going to my store , and he said you kept pestering him to come and tell me that you wanted to see me . '' 
`` Call me Jack , call me Jack -- like you used to . '' 
`` Jack , then -- there 's no bail -- they wo n't allow bail . 
exclaimed Jack Gordon , in a desperate tone , `` and the rest are all scattered ; but I 'm a desperate man . 
`` That was spoken rightly , my respected and respectable friend , Mr. Gordon ! '' 
`` Pike , O ! 
`` Yes , '' he soliloquised , `` this Gordon knows what he has heard his comrades say , and something himself besides ; but , I thank God , there 's nothing they can bring home to me . 
Bearing the mandate of the executive officer of the law , she repaired to the prison door whence she had been roughly driven by Pike , and on showing him the sheriff 's order , was most graciously admitted . 
Pike 's domestic cares restrained his garrulity ; and , opening the cell of Gordon just sufficiently for Catharine to enter , without saying a word he turned the keys on her , and hastened to the side of his wife . 
Gordon lay upon his mattrass on his prison floor in a state of partial intoxication . 
Through the window where Bobby had conversed with Pompey , as our readers may remember when his grandmother 's funeral went by , an accomplice , Tom Fenton , who had secreted himself in the woods , and who had been met by Bronson on his visit to Elwood , and informed of Gordon 's situation , had conveyed to him brandy , and tools wherewith to effect his escape . 
Fenton was induced to do this at great risk to himself , from the fear that Gordon would inform upon them ; and from the fact that he was without any of their booty himself and was entirely destitute , and with the hope that through Gordon he might be supplied . 
Gordon 's stillness since he had obtained the liquor had induced Pike to believe that he had become more reconciled to his situation , which made the jailor less wary . 
Instead , however , of instantly setting about preparing the means of escaping , Gordon , as soon as the brandy was given him , drank deeply , and had been partially intoxicated ever since . 
As Gordon lay in drunken sensuality in a dark corner of his cell , his wife could not see him , owing to the contrast of the little light within to the glare without which she had just left . 
He had observed her , however , from the first ; and had his eye fixed on her in sullen anger . 
`` Come at last , have you ? '' 
he growled out , raising himself upon his arm , and frowning on her with a ferocious stare . 
`` John , I came as soon as I could . 
will he -- that 's right ; ask him to come and see me . '' 
`` I think , John , '' she continued ; `` that I can interest Mr. Pinckney for you , too . '' 
exclaimed Gordon ; come closer -- let me whisper to you . '' 
`` He 's the chap , if you must know it , who had my twin brother punished for robbing him -- my twin brother -- he just made him deliver in the streets one night -- never touched a hair of his head -- but , no matter , I 'll do for him yet if I get out of this scrape . '' 
`` No ; I got that for that Italian woman who loved him ; she paid me well for it , but what 's it to you . 
`` Why , John -- O God ! 
`` I live with Miss Clara , John , '' replied his wife , in a deprecating tone , alarmed at the angry earnestness with which he asked his questions . 
`` Live with her , and she my enemy ; and I here ! '' 
he exclaimed , grasping her wrist with manacled hands , and maddened with drunkenness and rage . 
he muttered , pressing her to the floor with his hand upon her throat . 
`` John , when , O God ! 
She gathered her whole strength , and succeeded in disengaging his hand from her throat : `` John , this is not hanging matter , this counterfeiting you may escape if you do n't murder me , John . '' 
He seized her at this instant by the arm , and jerked her down with such violence as to strike her head with stunning force upon the floor . 
Gnashing his teeth with demoniac hate , and with a momentary supernatural strength , arising from his fury and the brandy he had swallowed , he twisted the ironbar which joined together the manacles on his wrists round her throat , and , palzied by the effort , fell prostrate by her side . 
The scene of that horrible night , when , in his excited fancy , he sold himself to the evil one , now revived like a fearful reality in the brain of Gordon , and he heard Ross laugh , and the tempter claim him . 
In accents almost inarticulate from intoxication and guilt , he called on his wife again and again to look at him and smile ; and he tried to loosen the bar from her throat , and he begged her to pray for him ; and he put his ear to her lips , and heard no voice , and felt no breath . 
Cursing her again , he twisted the bar closer , and sank senseless on her bosom ; that bosom which had always cherished him , and where he lay her murderer . 
Thecry rang through the streets of Springdale just as the sun was setting -- so different a setting sun to the two -- that Gordon had murdered his unoffending and confiding wife . 
The crowd forgot their excited talk of politics , and rushed in wild horror to the jail . 
was the shout from a thousand turbulent voices . 
The cry for summary justice reached the appalled prisoner in his cell . 
Gordon begged Pike , who stood beside him as the crowd gathered , swarmed , and shouted without , to let him see the body of his wife . 
`` She 's not dead ! '' 
he exclaimed ; `` they ca n't prove it on me ; let me see her . '' 
said Gordon , covering his head in his bed-clothes , to shut from his senses the loud cry of `` Lynch him ! '' 
which now , in accumulated wildness and strengthening purpose , rung forth on the ear of night , and over the hitherto peaceful village , from the assembled multitude , who had gathered in dark masses round the jail . '' 
`` I could n't get out , '' said Gordon , lifting his head from the mattrass , `` how can they get in ? '' 
He called on Pike not to leave him , but in vain . 
cried several of them , seizing him . 
cried Gordon to the tavern-keeper , at whose house Ross had arrested him , and who was trying to win a good name by Lynching his former comrade ; `` I know you -- you 're a -- '' `` No murderer ! '' 
Gordon struggled with terrific energy ; but , manacled as he was , he was soon overpowered , and dragged like a beast into the street . 
He sprang at Hall , and with one blow felled him to the earth ; the iron on his wrist fracturing the skull of his captor . 
The crowd stood back , frightened by his desperation . 
He here saw Robert Gammon , and putting his feet together , so as to leap with his prison incumbrances , he made at the boy , who stood looking at him in pity -- not anger . 
Bobby stepped aside , and avoided the blow aimed at him . 
At this moment a large stone , thrown by one of the by-standers , felled Gordon to the earth ; but he recovered himself . 
The inflictors of summary justice , at this , gathered close to him ; impelled rather by the crowd around them , than by their own desires , which , however blood-thirsty , were rendered for the moment , powerless , by the desperation of their prey . 
`` No ; '' exclaimed one of the candidates , who had made the last speech there , `` that would degrade the freedom of elections ; '' and he was about making an oration over Gordon , like that of Mark Antony over Csar , though , certainly , not with his intentions , when Gordon raised himself on his hands and knees , and the speaker retreated in affright . 
`` Let 's burn him ! '' 
Just as he lifted his hands to wipe away the dust and blood from his face , he was struck violently with a club . 
He sprung forward in the direction of the blow , and uttered so piercing a cry of mingled despair and rage , that the crowd recoiled from him for many feet ; while their candles and torches waved rapidly , and many behind were prostrated by the recoilers . 
Gordon now stepped back , unable to keep his feet , from exhaustion , though still gazing round on the crowd in horror and hate , with his face bloody , and his hands raised to protect his head . 
`` You 're doing the very act he has himself committed , '' cried out a humane individual , trying to press through the crowd , to the protection of the murderer . 
In an instant the rope was fastened round Gordon 's neck . 
There he detected most of the gang , who were visited by the law with a just punishment . 
