`` Oakes and Bluewater were reefers together , under old Breasthook , in the Mermaid ; and when the first was made a lieutenant into the Squid , the last followed as a mate . 
Oakes was first of the Briton , in her action with the Spanish frigates , and Bluewater third . 
For that affair Oakes got a sloop , and his friend went with him as his first . 
The next year they had the luck to capture a heavier ship than their own , when , for the first time in their service , the two young men were separated ; Oakes getting a frigate , and Bluewater getting the Squid . 
The vice-admiral has never led the van of a fleet , that the rear-admiral did not lead the rear-division ; and , now that Sir Gervaise is a commander-in-chief , you see his friend , Dick Bluewater , is cruising in his company . '' 
Almost at the same instant , three little flags appeared at the mast-head of the Cæsar , for previously to quitting his own ship , Sir Gervaise had sent a message to his friend , requesting him to take care of the fleet . 
Sir Gervaise Oakes had been so much struck and amused with a sight that to him happened to be entirely novel , that he did not speak during the whole process of anchoring . 
His popularity extended to the most distant colonies of England , in nearly all of which he had served with zeal and credit . 
His own ship was certain to be engaged , let what would happen to the others . 
Equally as captains and as flag-officers , the nation had become familiar with the names of Oakes and Bluewater , as men ever to be found sustaining each other in the thickest of the fight . 
It may be well to add here , that both these favourite seamen were men of family , or at least what was considered men of family among the mere gentry of England ; Sir Gervaise being a baronet by inheritance , while his friend actually belonged to one of those naval lines which furnishes admirals for generations ; his father having worn a white flag at the main ; and his grandfather having been actually ennobled for his services , dying vice-admiral of England . 
As his fleet was safely anchored , and that too , in beautiful order , in spite of the fog , Sir Gervaise Oakes showed a disposition to pursue what are termed ulterior views . 
`` This has been a fine sight -- certainly a very fine sight ; such as an old seaman loves ; but there must be an end to it , '' he said . 
Though this head-land does belong to the Wychecombe property , it is fairly leased to the crown , and none have a better right to occupy it than His Majesty 's servants . 
the lieutenant demanded , modestly , though with an interest that showed he was influenced only by zeal for the service . 
The admiral looked at him , intently , for a moment , and seemed pleased with the hint implied in the question . 
`` This must be said in pleasantry , Sir Gervaise , '' returned Wychecombe ; `` he would be a strange Virginian at least , who does not know how to ride ! '' 
`` Sir Gervaise , '' he said , `` I am no sailor , as you know , and least of all do I bear His Majesty 's commission in the navy , though I am in the county commission as a justice of the peace ; so , if I make any little mistake you will have the goodness to overlook it , for I know that the etiquette of the quarter-deck is a very serious matter , and is not to be trifled with ; -- but here is Dutton , as good a fellow in his way as lives -- his father was a sort of a gentleman too , having been the attorney of the neighbourhood , and the old man was accustomed to dine with me forty years ago -- '' `` I believe I understand you , Sir Wycherly , '' interrupted the admiral ; `` and I thank you for the attention you wish to pay my prejudices ; but , you are master of Wychecombe , and I should feel myself a troublesome intruder , indeed , did you not ask whom you please to dine at your own table . '' 
James was a most agreeable companion , Sir Gervaise , and , in divinity , he would not have turned his back on one of the apostles , I do verily believe ! '' 
Sir Gervaise had called his force the southern squadron , from the circumstance of its having been cruising in the Bay of Biscay , for the last six months . 
All his youth had been passed as a top-man , and he was really a prime seaman ; but accident having temporarily placed him in his present station , Captain Oakes was so much pleased with his attention to his duty , and particularly with his order , that he ever afterwards retained him in his cabin , notwithstanding the strong desire the honest fellow himself had felt to remain aloft . 
The secretary smiled his assent , and then Sir Gervaise apologized to his host , repeated the order to the steward , and the party proceeded . 
`` Galleygo has sailed in company with you so long , and to so many strange lands ; has been through so many dangers at your side , and has got so completely to consider himself as part of the family , that it was the most natural thing in the world he should expect to go to court with you . '' 
Admiral Oakes had often declared that `` Dick Bluewater knew more about a ship than any man in England ; '' and as for a fleet , his mode of manœuvring one had got to be standard in the service . 
As soon as Sir Gervaise recognised his friend , he expressed a wish to wait for him , which was courteously converted by Sir Wycherly into a proposition to return and meet him . 
`` Good-day to you , Bluewater , '' commenced the latter , in his familiar , off-hand way ; `` I 'm glad you have torn yourself away from your ship ; though I must say the manner in which you came-to , in that fog , was more like instinct , than anything human ! 
`` That is owing to your captains , Sir Gervaise , '' returned the other , observing the respect of manner , that the inferior never loses with his superior , on service , and in a navy ; let their relative rank and intimacy be what they may on all other occasions ; `` good captains make handy ships . 
The rear-admiral merely smiled and touched his hat in acknowledgment of the compliment , but he made no direct answer in words . 
Both Sir Gervaise and his friend were practical men , and well knew that they never fought the Dutch or the French , without meeting with something that was pretty nearly their match . 
Each glanced his eye significantly at the other , and a sarcastic smile passed over the face of Sir Gervaise , though his friend maintained his customary appearance of gravity . 
I am sure you are pleased to be jocular , Sir Gervaise ; the very circumstance that he is in your company is a pledge of his loyalty . '' 
Sir Gervaise had always been able to persuade him that he was sustaining the honour and interests of his country , and that ought to be sufficient to a patriot , let who would rule . 
Notwithstanding this wide difference in political feeling between the two admirals -- Sir Gervaise being as decided a whig , as his friend was a tory -- their personal harmony had been without a shade . 
As to confidence , the superior knew the inferior so well , that he believed the surest way to prevent his taking sides openly with the Jacobites , or of doing them secret service , was to put it in his power to commit a great breach of trust . 
So long as faith were put in his integrity , Sir Gervaise felt certain his friend Bluewater might be relied on ; and he also knew that , should the moment ever come when the other really intended to abandon the service of the house of Hanover , he would frankly throw up his employments , and join the hostile standard , without profiting , in any manner , by the trusts he had previously enjoyed . 
`` With all my heart , Sir Gervaise , '' answered the baronet , cordially ; `` and , after all , there is little use in discussing the affair of the Pretender any longer , for he appears to be quite out of men 's minds , since that last failure of King Louis XV . '' 
He once assured me that the twelve judges were clearly against the claim , and that the Stuarts had nothing to expect from them . '' 
`` Did he tell you , sir , on what ground these learned gentlemen had come to this decision ? '' 
`` He did , indeed ; for he knew my strong desire to make out a good case against the tories so well , that he laid all the law before me . 
Sir Gervaise , it was understood , was to pass the night with him , and he entertained strong hopes of including his friend in the same arrangement . 
`` If one could take with him to sea , the comforts of such a house as this , Sir Wycherly , and such handsome faces as your own , young lady , '' cried Sir Gervaise , cheerfully , after he had made his salutations ; `` there would be an end of our exclusiveness , for every petit maitreof Paris and London would turn sailor , as a matter of course . 
Admiral Bluewater had already saluted the mother , but when his eye fell on the face and person of Mildred , it was riveted , for an instant , with an earnestness and intentness of surprise and admiration that all noted , though no one saw fit to comment on it . 
`` Sir Gervaise is so established an admirer of the sex , '' said the rear-admiral , recovering himself , after a pause ; `` that I am never astonished at any of his raptures . 
Salt water has the usual effect on him , however ; for I have now known him longer than he might wish to be reminded of , and yet the only mistress who can keep him true , is his ship . '' 
`` Certainly , Sir Gervaise , '' answered Mildred , dropping her eyes to the floor , and trembling , though she scarce knew why ; `` Mr. Wychecombe has been about here , now , for some months , and we all know something of him . '' 
`` Then , perhaps you can tell me whether he is generally a loiterer on duty . 
I do not inquire whether he is a laggard in his duty to you , but whether , mounted on a good hunter , he could get over twenty miles , in eight or ten hours , for instance ? '' 
Fortunately , at this moment , Sir Gervaise turned away , and drawing near his friend , on the other side of the large apartment , he said in an under tone -- `` Luckily , Atwood has brought ashore a duplicate of my despatches , Bluewater , and if this dilatory gentleman does not return by the time we have dined , I will send off a second courier . 
Sir Gervaise laughed as he concluded , though he seemed vexed and embarrassed . 
Admiral Bluewater betrayed neither chargin , nor disappointment ; but strong , nearly ungovernable curiosity , a feeling from which he was singularly exempt in general , glowed in his eyes , and lighted his whole countenance . 
Still , habitual submission to his superior , and the self-command of discipline , enabled him to wait for anything more that his friend might communicate . 
It was necessary to throw but a single glance at his hurried manner , and general appearance , to know that he had something of importance to communicate , and Sir Gervaise made a sign for him not to speak , `` This is public service , Sir Wycherly , '' said the vice-admiral , `` and I hope you will excuse us for a few minutes . 
`` It had not , Admiral Oakes ; and I have the satisfaction of knowing that your despatches are now several hours on their way to London . 
`` Not the Pretender , Sir Gervaise , as I understand the news ; but his young son , Prince Charles Edward , one much more likely to give the kingdom trouble . 
Well , Bluewater , '' he continued , as soon as the door closed on Wycherly ; `` this isnews , of a certainty ! '' 
Sir Gervaise Oakes expected some event of this nature , and was less taken by surprise than his friend ; still he viewed the crisis as exceedingly serious , and as one likely to destroy the prosperity of the nation , as well as the peace of families . 
On several occasions had they fought enemies ' frigates , and captured them ; on these occasions , as a matter of course , the senior of the two became most known to the nation ; but Sir Gervaise had made the most generous efforts to give his junior a full share of the credit , while Captain Bluewater never spoke of the affairs without mentioning them as victories of the commodore . 
When Sir Gervaise joined the party in the drawing-room , therefore , he saw that Sir Wycherly knew nothing of what had occurred at the north ; and he intended the glance which he directed at the lieutenant to convey a hearty approval of his discretion . 
The approbation that Sir Gervaise felt , and which he desired to manifest , for Wycherly 's prudence , was altogether a principle , however ; since there existed no sufficient reason for keeping the secret from as confirmed a whig as his host . 
No alteration had taken place among the guests , except that Sir Gervaise wore the red riband ; a change in his dress that his friend considered to be openly hoisting the standard of the house of Hanover . 
`` One would not think , Sir Wycherly , '' commenced the vice-admiral , glancing his eyes around him , as soon as all were seated ; `` that this good company has taken its place at your hospitable table , in the midst of a threatened civil war , if not of an actual revolution . '' 
`` Sir Gervaise Oakes has grown figurative ; with his snakesand scotchings , '' observed the rear-admiral , a little drily . 
Sir Gervaise now chose to remain silent , for never before had Bluewater come so near betraying his political bias , in the presence of third persons . 
Sir Gervaise smiled at Sir Wycherly 's knowledge of law terms , not to say of Latin ; and turning good-humouredly to his friend the rear-admiral , anxious to re-establish friendly relations with him , he said with well-concealed irony -- `` Sir Wycherly must be right , Bluewater . 
Admiral Bluewater was well aware that Sir Gervaise was greatly superior to the vulgar whig notion of the day , which believed in the fabricated tale of the Pretender 's spurious birth ; and the secret and ironical allusion he had made to his impression on that subject , acted as oil to his own chafed spirit , disposing him to moderation . 
Deference to his guests made Sir Wycherly consent to change the subject , though he was a little mystified with the obvious reluctance of the two admirals to speak of an enterprise that ought to be uppermost , according to his notion of the matter , in every Englishman 's mind . 
The good baronet had made a wry face , at seeing a rear-admiral so unworthily bestowed ; but Sir Gervaise assuring him that his friend was never so happy as when in the service of beauty , he was fain to submit to the arrangement . 
Sir Gervaise , even , was struck with the singular and devoted manner in which his old messmate gave all his attention to the beautiful girl at his side ; and , once or twice , he caught himself conjecturing whether it were possible , that one as practised , as sensible , and as much accustomed to the beauties of the court , as Bluewater , had actually been caught , by the pretty face of a country girl , when so well turned of fifty , himself ! 
Then discarding the notion as preposterous , he gave his attention to the discourse of Sir Wycherly ; a dissertation on rabbits , and rabbit-warrens . 
`` Oakes is bowsing up his jib with his brother baronet , as we sailors say , and I have hauled out of the line , without a signal . '' 
`` Not he . 
Gervaise Oakes is as discreet a man , in all that relates to the table , as an anchorite ; and yet he has a faculty of seemingto drink , that makes him a boon companion for a four-bottle man . 
At this moment the two young men entered , and a servant appeared to request that Admiral Bluewater would do Sir Gervaise Oakes the favour to join him , in the dressing-room of the latter . 
Rear-Admiral Bluewaterfound Sir Gervaise Oakes pacing a large dressing-room , quarter-deck fashion , with as much zeal , as if just released from a long sitting , on official duty , in his own cabin . 
As the two officers were perfectly familiar with each other 's personal habits , neither deviated from his particular mode of indulging his ease ; but the last comer quietly took his seat in a large chair , disposing of his person in a way to show he intended to consult his comfort , let what would happen . 
`` I wish , with all my heart , we had never left it , '' muttered Sir Gervaise , so low that his companion did not hear him . 
Then he added , in a louder tone , `` Ourduty , however , is very simple . 
`` Ay , and onthe main , Oakes . 
`` An inferior never can know , Sir Gervaise , where it may suit the pleasure of his superiors to order him . '' 
`` You would be afraid of nothing , Gervaise Oakes , whether I stood at your elbow , or were off in Scotland . 
`` Then I want your presence to keep me within the bounds of reason , '' said Sir Gervaise , stopping short in his walk , and looking his friend smilingly in the face . 
`` And yet the name of Oakes is to be met with among their bravest knights , and most faithful followers . '' 
`` The Oakes , like the pines , have been timbers in every ship that has floated , '' returned the vice-admiral , half-unconscious himself , of the pun he was making . 
For more than a minute Sir Gervaise continued his walk , his head a little inclined forward , like a man who pondered deeply on some matter of interest . 
Then , suddenly stopping , he turned towards his friend , whom he regarded for near another minute , ere he resumed the discourse . 
`` I wish I could fairly get you to exercise your excellent reason on this matter , Dick , '' he said , after the pause ; `` then I should be certain of having secured you on the side of liberty . '' 
Admiral Bluewater merely shook his head , but he continued silent , as if he deemed discussion altogether supererogatory . 
`` I beg pardon , Sir Gervaise , '' commenced the secretary , who always proceeded at once to business , when business was to be done ; `` but His Majesty 's service will not admit of delay . 
Now , it so happened , that while Sir Gervaise Oakes had never , by look or syllable , as he confidently believed , betrayed the secret of his friend 's Jacobite propensities , Atwood was perfectly aware of their existence . 
As this was said , Sir Gervaise tore aside the seals ; and , as he proceeded rather summarily , a red riband was soon uncased and fell upon the carpet . 
Every thing was in due form , and went to acquaint Rear-Admiral Bluewater , that His Majesty had been graciously pleased to confer on him one of the vacant red ribands of the day , as a reward for his eminent services on different occasions . 
`` I make a great distinction , Oakes , between rank in the navy , and a mere personal dignity . 
`` Your case and mine , Oakes , are essentially different , '' returned the other , with some emotion in his voice and manner . 
As Sir Gervaise commenced , with his constitutional ardour , to turn over the letters , as soon as his mind was directed to this particular object , Admiral Bluewater resumed his seat , awaiting the result , with not a little curiosity ; though , at the same time , with a smile of incredulity . 
The dates proved that the ministers were better informed than he had supposed ; for it appeared they had been apprised about the time he was himself of the intended movement . 
His orders were to bring the fleet north , and in substance to do the very thing his own sagacity had dictated . 
So far every thing was well ; and he could not entertain a doubt about receiving the hearty approbation of his superiors , for the course he had taken . 
But here his gratification ended ; for , on looking at the dates of the different communications , it was evident that the red riband was bestowed after the intelligence of the Pretender 's movement had reached London . 
`` D -- n 'em , Dick , '' cried Sir Gervaise , as he threw down the last letter of the package , with no little sign of feeling ; `` you might take St. Paul , or even Wychecombe 's dead brother , St. James the less , and put him at court , and he would come out a thorough blackguard , in a week ! '' 
But one ca n't very well refuse promotion in his regular profession ; and , here , just as a true gentleman would depend on the principles of an officer , the hackneyed consciences of your courtiers have suggested the expediency of making Gervaise Oakes an admiral of the blue , by way of sop ! 
Such was the fact , as respected Admirals Oakes and Bluewater . 
Nothing was easier , consequently , than for Sir Gervaise Oakes to comprehend the workings of Admiral Bluewater 's mind , as the latter endeavoured to believe he had been fairly treated by the existing government . 
Of course , the reasoning which passed through the thoughts of Sir Gervaise , on this occasion , required much less time than we have taken to explain its nature ; and , after regarding his friend intently , as already related , for a few seconds , he answered as follows ; a good deal influenced , unwittingly to himself , with the wish to check the other 's Jacobite propensities . 
`` I am sorry not to be able to agree with you , Dick , '' he said , with some warmth . 
`` Come , come , Oakes , this is getting to be puerile , for two old fellows , turned of fifty . 
Sir Gervaise was about to answer in his former vein , when a tap at the door announced the presence of another visiter . 
`` Yes , your honour , that he is -- that is just one of Sir Jarvy 's weak p ` ints , as a body might say . 
demanded Sir Gervaise , a little more sternly than he was accustomed to speak to the steward . 
demanded Bluewater , looking at the superscription , the writing of which he appeared to recognise . 
The two admirals exchanged glances , and the look of kindness that each met in the eyes of his friend removed every shadow that had been cast athwart their feelings , by the previous discourse . 
Sir Gervaise Oakes stopped in his walk , and gazed at his friend with manifest interest , as he perceived that Admiral Bluewater was running over his letter for the third time . 
Being now without a witness , he did not hesitate to express his apprehensions . 
he cried . 
The rear-admiral turned his eyes on the face of his friend , with an expression that was difficult to read ; and then he ran over the contents of the epistle , for the fourth time . 
`` A set of precious rascals they are , Gervaise ! '' 
Tell me if you know this hand , Oakes ? 
Read that , Oakes , and then say if keelhauling would be too good for the writer . '' 
As he proceeded , the colour mounted to his temples , and once he dropped his hand , to cast a look of wonder and indignation towards his companion . 
When Sir Gervaise had perused this precious epistle to himself , he read it slowly , and in a steady , clear voice , aloud . 
When he had ended , he dropped the paper , and stood gazing at his friend . 
As Sir Gervaise concluded , he threw the whole package of letters on the table , before his friend . 
`` Good-night , Gervaise ; let this miserable devil go over-board , and think no more of him . 
Sir Gervaise laughed and nodded his head , and the two friends parted , with feelings as kind as ever had distinguished their remarkable career . 
`` You will remember , my good lady , that both Oakes and myself are flag-officers in command , and it would never do for us to fall into a debauch in sight of our own ships . 
Sir Gervaise Oakes had been acquainted with the state of his host , by his own valet , as soon as it was known in the servants ' - hall , and being a man of action , he did not hesitate to proceed at once to the chamber of the sick , to offer his own aid , in the absence of that which might be better . 
demanded Sir Gervaise , after regarding his host a moment with commiseration and concern . 
I heard him say , that , notwithstanding all Sir Wycherly 's kind plans to detain him , he intended to sleep in his own ship . '' 
`` I think there is hope , sir , '' he added , `` yes sir , I think there is hope ; though your honoured relative is no longer young -- still , this early bleeding has been a great thing ; and if we can gain a little time for poor Sir Wycherly , our efforts will not be thrown away . 
observed Sir Gervaise , casually , a shade of distrust passing athwart his mind , though coming from what source , or directed to what point , he was himself totally unable to say . 
`` He was , Sir Gervaise , and a most tender and indulgent father , I ever found him . 
He left me his earnings , some seven hundred a year , and I am sure the death of Sir Wycherly is as far from my necessities , as it is from my wishes . '' 
My dear parent used to inculcate on me the necessity of doing everything according to law ; and I endeavour to remember his precepts . 
He avowed his marriage on his death-bed , made all due atonement to my respected and injured mother , and informed me in whose hands I should find this very certificate ; I only obtained it this morning , which fact will account for its being in my pocket , at this melancholy and unexpected crisis , in my beloved uncle 's constitution . '' 
Nevertheless , he had his own motives for pursuing the subject ; the presence of neither at the bed-side of the sufferer , being just then necessary . 
`` He is only a Virginian , you know , sir , and can not well belong to us . 
`` Not directly , Sir Gervaise ; though I am told he has made many hints to that effect , since he landed here to be cured of his wound . 
It would have been better had he presented his rights to the landlord , than to present them to the tenants , I think you will allow , as a man of honour , yourself , Sir Gervaise ? '' 
Sir Gervaise Oakes was too much concerned for the condition of his host , and had too many cares of his own , to think deeply or long on what had just passed between himself and Tom Wychecombe . 
`` It can not be done legally , Mr. Thomas -- I should think Admiral Oakes would interfere to prevent it . '' 
`` Certainly , Sir Wycherly ; Admiral Oakes is in the room , even ; and Admiral Bluewater , is , I believe , still in the house . 
Still Sir Gervaise Oakes had great reluctance in yielding to this remonstrance ; for , to the distrust he had imbibed of Tom Wychecombe , was added an impression that his host wished to reveal something of interest , in connection with his new favourite , the lieutenant . 
asked Sir Gervaise , in a manner that showed authority would be exercised to enforce his request , should the uncle still desire the absence of his nephew . 
`` You perceive , Mr. Wychecombe , what are your uncle 's wishes , '' observed Sir Gervaise , very much in the way that a well-bred superior intimates to an inferior the compliance he expects ; `` I trust his desire will not be disregarded , at a moment like this . '' 
Sir Gervaise was too well-bred to laugh , but he found it difficult to suppress a smile . 
That Sir Gervaise and his companions should be ignorant of the `` law of the half-blood , '' is , consequently , very much a matter of course ; and no one ought to be surprised that the worthy baronet 's repeated allusions to the `` whole , '' and the `` half , '' were absolutely enigmas , which neither had the knowledge necessary to explain . 
Sir Gervaise looked about him , as was his habit when any droll idea crossed his mind ; but again suppressing the inclination to smile , he answered with suitable gravity -- `` I understand you , sir ; you think all these inexplicable terms are connected with Sir Wycherly 's religious feelings . 
Sir Gervaise Oakes now joined his hands behind his back , and walked several times , quarter-deck fashion , to and fro , in the room . 
At each turn , his eyes glanced towards the bed , and he ever found the gaze of the sick man anxiously fastened on himself . 
This satisfied him that religion had nothing to do with his host 's manifest desire to make himself understood ; and his own trouble was greatly increased . 
It seemed to him , as if a dying man was making incessant appeals to his aid , without its being in his power to afford it . 
It was not possible for a generous man , like Sir Gervaise , to submit to such a feeling without an effort ; and he soon went to the side of the bed , again , determined to bring the affair to some intelligible issue . 
he asked , as a sort of desperate remedy . 
Sir Gervaise was delighted with this , and he immediately directed his companions to lend their assistance . 
`` This is the form , in which it is usual to commence wills , I believe , Sir Gervaise , '' observed the secretary , who had written many a one , on board ship , in his day . 
`` Sir Wycherly 's affairs are in the best order ; and , besides the estate , he has a large sum in the funds . '' 
No vessel under his command , ever had a lubberly look ; and no ship that had any sailing in her , failed to have it brought out of her . 
Sir Gervaise Oakes was so great a favourite , that all he asked was usually conceded to him . 
One of his conditions was , that his vessels should sail equally well : `` If you give me fast ships , '' he said , `` I can overtake the enemy ; if dull , the enemy can overtake me ; and I leave you to say which course will be most likely to bring on an action . 
The admiralty professed every desire to oblige the gallant commander ; and , as he was resolved never to quit the Plantagenet until she was worn out , it was indispensably necessary to find as many fast vessels as possible , to keep her company . 
The result was literally a fleet of `` horses , '' as Galleygo used to call it ; and it was generally said in the service , that `` Oakes had a squadron of flyers , if not a flying-squadron . '' 
Sir Gervaise was my informant ; but he did not relate the matter very clearly . '' 
but there wasa motive , sir ; he was far from doing so silly a thing for nothing ! '' 
AlthoughAdmiral Bluewater devoted the minimum of time to sleep , he was not what the French term matinal . 
Adieu , Sir Gervaise , like a woman , had written his mind in his postscript . 
The scene of the previous night had forcibly presented itself to his recollection on awakening , and calling for his writing-desk , he had sent off this note , at the dawn of day , with the wish of having as many important witnesses as he could well obtain , at the interview he intended to demand , at the earliest practicable hour . 
`` What the deuce can Oakes have to do with Sir Wycherly Wychecombe 's will ? '' 
Oakes wonthave it ; besides , he 's got enough of his own , and to spare . 
I dare say , he has a good # 12,000 a year , and nothing but a nephew to inherit it all . 
When finished in this manner , he set about filling up the blanks . 
For a passing instant , he felt tempted to insert the name of the Pretender ; but , smiling at his own folly , he wrote that of `` Mildred Dutton , daughter of Francis Dutton , a master in His Majesty 's Navy , '' in all the places that it was requisite so to do . 
Then he affixed the seal , and , folding all the upper part of the sheet over , so as to conceal the contents , he rang a little silver bell , which always stood at his elbow . 
The outer cabin-door was opened by the sentry , who thrust his head in at the opening . 
`` Very true , sir ; but whatever you ask of Sir Gervaise , he always does ; more especially as concerns us of your flag-ship . '' 
Then , too , whenever he commanded in chief , as frequently happened , for a week or two at a time , Sir Gervaise being absent , it was remarked that the common service of the fleet went on like clock-work ; his mind seeming to embrace generals , when it refused to descend to details . 
In consequence of these personal peculiarities , the captains often observed , that Bluewater ought to have been the senior , and Oakes the junior ; and then , their joint commands would have produced perfection : but these criticisms must be set down , in a great measure , to the natural propensity to find fault , and an inherent desire in men , even when things are perfectly well in themselves , to prove their own superiority , by pointing out modes and means by which they might be made much better . 
When Bluewater landed , he returned the profound and general salute of all on or near the rock , by a sweeping , but courteous bow , which was nevertheless given in a vacant , slovenly manner ; and immediately began to ascend the ravine . 
He had actually reached the grassy acclivity above , before he was at all aware of any person 's being near him . 
Turning , he perceived that the midshipman was at his heels , respect alone preventing one of the latter 's active limbs and years from skipping past his superior on the ascent . 
inquired the admiral saluting the master , as if nothing had happened ; `` a note from Sir Gervaise , written about day-break , tells me he was not , then , essentially better . '' 
He must be conscious , notwithstanding ; for Dick , his groom , has just ridden over with a note from Mr. Rotherham , to say that the excellent old baronet particularly desires to see my wife and daughter ; and that the coach will be here , to take them over in a few minutes . 
demanded the vice-admiral so suddenly , behind the speaker , as to cause all to start ; Sir Gervaise having hastened to meet the ladies and his friend , as soon as he knew of their arrival . 
Run up and ask him , Atwood , and bring me the answer in the drawing-room , where I see Bluewater has gone with his convoy ; and -- harkee -- tell the surgeons to let us know the instant the patient says anything about his temporal affairs . 
When this cheerless meal was ended , Sir Gervaise desired Bluewater to follow him to his room , whither he led the way in person . 
`` That Vervillin is a good fellow , '' returned Sir Gervaise , rubbing his hands ; a way he had when much pleased ; `` and has stuff in him . 
`` There you 've made a small mistake , Sir Gervaise , as the Comte de Vervillin had his flag in the largest three-decker of France ; le Bourbon120 . 
The rest of his ships are like our own , though much fuller manned . '' 
Sir Gervaise cast a quick , distrustful glance at the other , anxious to read the motive for the question , at the same time that he did not wish to betray his own feelings ; then he appeared to meditate on the answer . 
`` It is not quite agreeable to lie here , chafing our cables , with a French squadron roving the channel , '' he said ; `` but I rather think it 's my duty to wait for orders from the Admiralty , under present circumstances . '' 
`` It is the prerogative of the crownto declare war , Oakes . 
Admiral Bluewater , who had taken his usual lolling attitude in the most comfortable chair he could find , while his more mercurial friend kept pacing the room , now raised his head in surprise , following the quick motions of the other , with his eyes , as if he doubted whether he had rightly heard the question . 
Again Bluewater raised his head , and once more his eye sought the face of his friend . 
Sir Gervaise had now stopped short , with his hands crossed behind his back , looking intently at the other , in expectation of the answer . 
`` This matter of likenesses is not easily explained , Oakes . 
`` There you are mistaken , Oakes ; you took more in mine ; for , when I made a will in your own favour , and gave it to you to read , you tore it in two , and threw it over-board , with your own hand . '' 
Bluewater smiled at this evidence of the familiarity of his friend with his own way of thinking and feeling ; and , for a single instant , he regretted that he had not put his first intention in force , in order that the conformity of views might have been still more perfect ; but , putting a hand in his pocket , he drew out the document itself , and leaning forward , gave it carelessly to Sir Gervaise . 
`` There is the will ; and by looking it over , you will know what I 've done , '' he said . 
The vice-admiral , who knew that he had no direct interest in his friend 's disposition of his property , took the will , with a good deal of curiosity to ascertain its provisions . 
So short a testament was soon read ; and his eye rested intently on the paper until it had taken in the last word . 
Then his hand dropped , and he regarded Bluewater with a surprise he neither affected , nor wished to conceal . 
He did not doubt his friend 's sanity , but he greatly questioned his discretion . 
`` This is a very simple , but a very ingenious arrangement , to disturb the order of society , '' he said ; `` and to convert a very modest and unpretending , though lovely girl , into a forward and airs-taking old woman ! 
But , Gervaise , Agnes herself was not fairer in person , or more lovely in mind , than this very Mildred Dutton . '' 
returned Sir Gervaise , half suppressing a smile as he threw a quiet glance at his friend . 
`` You know this to be idle , Oakes . 
`` If he can , '' drily observed the other , raising his right leg so high as to place the foot on the top of an old-fashioned chair ; an effort that nearly brought his back in a horizontal line . 
`` Well , Magrath , '' said Sir Gervaise , stopping suddenly in his quarter-deck pace ; `` what news of the poor man ? '' 
`` He is reviving , Admiral Oakes , '' returned the phlegmatic surgeon ; `` but it is like the gleaming of sunshine that streams through clouds , as the great luminary sets behind the hills -- '' `` Oh ! 
`` Varra true , Sir Gervaise , but ye 've let him blood , amang ye : a measure that has been somewhat preceepitately practised , I 've my misgivings ! '' 
This speech referred to one of the most desperate , hand-to-hand struggles , in which the two flag-officers had ever been engaged ; and , as it afforded them the means of exhibiting their personal gallantry , when quite young men , both usually looked back upon the exploit with great self-complacency ; Sir Gervaise , in particular , his friend having often declared since , that they ought to have been laid on the shelf for life , as a punishment for risking their men in so mad an enterprise , though it did prove to be brilliantly successful . 
`` That was an affair in which one might engage at twenty-two , Magrath , '' observed Bluewater ; `` but which he ought to hesitate about thinking of even , after thirty . '' 
exclaimed Sir Gervaise , striking the back of one hand into the palm of the other , with a sudden energy , that showed how much he was excited by the mere recollection of the scene . 
said Magrath , growing more and more Scotch , as he warmed in the discourse ; `` ye 'd board a mackerel-hoy , rather than not have an engagement . 
`` He has , indeed , Sir Gervaise ; and that in a way so manifestly connected with his will , that I 'm opining ye 'll no be forgotten in the legacies . 
The name of Bluewater was in his mouth , also . '' 
At this suggestion , the rear-admiral drew in his legs , which had not changed their position on account of the presence of the surgeon , arose , and followed Sir Gervaise , as the latter left the room . 
My letter was signed ` Gervaise Oakes , ' and , as they tell me a fleet is in the neighbourhood , I have supposed that the celebrated admiral of that name , has done me the honour to write it . '' 
`` You are not mistaken , sir ; Sir Gervaise Oakes is in the house -- ah -- here he comes to receive you , accompanied by Rear-Admiral Bluewater , whom the sailors call his mainmast . '' 
Introductions were scarcely necessary , the uniform and star -- for in that age officers usually appeared in their robes -- the uniform and star of Sir Gervaise at once proclaiming his rank and name ; while , between Sir Reginald and Bluewater there existed a slight personal acquaintance , which had grown out of their covert , but deep , Jacobite sympathies . 
Sir Gervaise was so much accustomed to command , that he did not feel the singularity of his own interference in the affairs of a family of what might be called strangers , though the circumstance struck Sir Reginald , as a little odd . 
Sir Gervaise started , and cast a quick , suspicious glance at the speaker ; but there the latter stood , with as open and guileless an expression on his handsome features , as was ever seen in the countenance of confiding sixteen . 
The civil baronet seemed surprised at this assertion of his military brother ; but Sir Gervaise explaining what had passed between himself and the young man , he could no longer entertain any doubt of the fact . 
`` Quite true , Sir Gervaise ; and a Scotchman is a Scotchman , even though he come from the north of Tweed . '' 
`` Sir Gervaise Oakes tells me , he understands your wishes , generally , and that he is now prepared to gratify them . 
The vice-admiral now went through the ceremony of repeating his request , and got the same significant answer . 
`` Atwood will read to you what he has already written , Sir Wycherly , '' he said ; `` should the phraseology be agreeable to you , you will have the goodness to make a sign to that effect . 
`` Young sir , '' said Sir Gervaise , with a little of the severity of a superior , when he rebukes an inferior , in his manner ; `` you speak hastily . 
Sir Gervaise too much respected the feelings of the young man to urge the matter any further , and he turned towards the bed , in expectation of what the sick man might next say . 
The poor old man smiled an assent , and then he succeeded in muttering the name of `` Sir Reginald Wychecombe . '' 
The first step was to make sure that the baronet was actually dead ; a fact that Sir Gervaise Oakes , in particular , was very unwilling to believe , in the actual state of his feelings . 
Sir Reginald 's face flushed , while Sir Gervaise bit his lip ; Bluewater played with the hilt of his sword , very indifferent to all that was passing ; while Atwood and the surgeons shrugged their shoulders and smiled . 
It has already been said , that in this instrument , Sir Wycherly had bequeathed all he had on earth , to `` his nephew , Thomas Wychecombe , son , & c. & c. '' making his heir , also , his executor . 
cried Sir Gervaise , fairly rubbing his hands with delight . 
`` Not always , Sir Gervaise , '' returned the lieutenant , castting a side-look at the steward , who often comforted him with ship 's delicacies in the admiral 's cabin ; `` this time , he is right , at least . 
We make her out to say that Monsieur Vervillin is at sea with his whole force . '' 
He desired me to tell you that the ebb would make in half an hour , and that we can then fetch past the rocks to the westward , light as the wind is . '' 
-- He 'll not sit down until we are all aweigh , and standing out . 
cried Sir Gervaise , who was so delighted at the prospect of a general engagement , that he felt a boyish pleasure in this fooling ; `` and now to business , seriously . 
`` Mr. Bunting , as you pass the Cæsar , do me the favour to ask for my boat , also , '' said Bluewater , lazily , but halfraising his body to look after the retiring lieutenant . 
Still , Oakes , it is possible he may have succours for the Scotch on board , and be bound to the north by the way of the Irish channel ! '' 
Sir Gervaise paced the room , with hands folded behind his back , in an air of deep contemplation , for quite five minutes , before he answered . 
All this time , Bluewater remained watching his countenance and movements , in anticipation of what was to come . 
At length , the vice-admiral appeared to have made up his mind , and he delivered himself of his decision , as follows . 
`` I have reflected on them , Dick , '' he said , `` even while my thoughts have seemed to be occupied with the concerns of others . 
asked Sir Gervaise , with interest , for he had the profoundest respect for his friend 's professional opinions . 
`` Beyond a doubt , if Sir Gervaise Oakes can make up his mind to retire , before any Frenchman who was ever born , '' returned Bluewater , laughing . 
`` Will you allow me to make a suggestion , Admiral Oakes ; and this with all the frankness that ought to characterize our ancient friendship ? '' 
Sir Gervaise stopped short in his walk , looked Bluewater steadily in the face , and nodded his head . 
And why do you suppose that the plan of the commander-in-chief will be least in danger of failing , if Admiral Bluewater lead on this occasion , instead of Admiral Oakes ? '' 
`` Merely because I think Admiral Oakes , when an enemy is pressing him , is more apt to take counsel of his heart than of his head ; while Admiral Bluewater is not . 
Admiral Bluewater smiled , and not altogether without irony in his manner ; though he managed , at the same time , to get the leg that had been lowest for the last five minutes , raised by an ingenuity peculiar to himself , several inches above its fellow . 
`` Nature never made you for a conspirator , Oakes , '' he said , as soon as this change was effected to his mind ; `` for you carry a top-light in your breast that even the blind can see ! '' 
Sir Gervaise coloured to the temples , for the other had penetrated into his most secret thoughts ; and , yet , spite of his momentary vexation , he faced his accuser , and both laughed in the heart-felt manner that the circumstance would be likely to excite . 
`` Hearkee , Dick , '' said the vice-admiral , as soon as he could command sufficient gravity to speak ; `` they made a mistake when they sent you to sea ; you ought to have been apprenticed to a conjuror . 
Sir Gervaise now entered more at length into his scheme ; explaining to his friend all his wishes and hopes , and letting him know , with official minuteness , what was expected at his hands . 
The rear-admiral listened with his accustomed respect , whenever anything grave was in discussion between them ; and , had any one entered while they were thus engaged , he would have seen in the manner of one , nothing but the dignified frankness of a friendly superior , and in the other the deference which the naval inferior usually pays to rank . 
As he concluded Sir Gervaise rang his bell , and desired the presence of Sir Wycherly Wychecombe . 
`` Admiral Oakes , what is there that ought to keep one of my station ashore , on the eve of a general battle ? 
A person so important as Sir Gervaise Oakes did not leave the roof that had sheltered him , to embark on board his own ship , without a due escort to the shore . 
Bluewater accompanied him , in order to discuss any little point of duty that might occur to the mind of either , at the last moment ; and Wycherly was of the group , partly from professional feeling , and more from a desire to be near Mildred . 
While the midshipman was gone to look for the boat , the two admirals walked the cliff , side by side , discussing their future movements ; and when all was ready , Sir Gervaise descended to the shore , using the very path by which he had ascended the previous day ; and , pushing through the throng that crowded the landing , almost too much engaged to heed even his approach , he entered his barge . 
In another minute , the measured strokes of the oars urged him swiftly towards the Plantagenet . 
Asit was just past the turn of the day , Bluewater determined to linger on the cliffs for several hours , or until it was time to think of his dinner . 
Abstracted as his thoughts were habitually , his mind found occupation and pleasure in witnessing the evolutions that succeeded among the ships ; some of which evolutions it may be well now briefly to relate . 
He is never happier than when he hears a gale howling through the cordage of his ship . '' 
`` I have heard him spoken of as a very daring and self-relying commander . 
`` I fear I am a wolf in sheep 's clothing , '' he said ; `` while Oakes admits the happiness he feels in seeing his ship ploughing through a raging sea , in a dark night , he maintains that my rapture is sought in a hurricane . 
`` Oakes has left the matter in my hands ; I suppose I shall have to grant the young man 's request . '' 
Sir Gervaise never set a better trap , than he has done this very day . 
Yet , you 'll remember Sir Gervaise gave us full credit , in his despatches . '' 
Sir Gervaise knows better ; and then heunderstands what the Cæsar is ; and what she cando , and hasdone . 
But it 's a very different matter with his youngsters , who fancy because they carry a red flag at the fore , they are so many Blakes and Howards , themselves . 
He was my mother 's brother , and both Sir Gervaise and myself served long under his orders . 
He was a sailor of whom you well might boast . '' 
`` Your eyes are still good , Sir Reginald ; Admiral Oakes sailed several hours since , and he has been followed by all the fleet , with the exception of the two line-of-battle ships , and the frigate you see ; leaving me to be the last to quit the anchorage . '' 
`` Such was the first intention of the commander-in-chief ; but intelligence of the sailing of the Comte de Vervillin has induced Sir Gervaise to change his mind . 
`` Does Admiral Oakes then think that the French ships are steering in thatdirection ? '' 
The Duke of Cumberland will collect his German auxiliaries , and they must get into England the best way that they can . 
Would an intelligent enemy with a well-appointed fleet suffer this junction , if he could prevent it ? 
We know he would not ; and when we remember the precise time of the sailing of the Comte , his probable ignorance of the presence of this squadron of yours , in the channel , and all the other circumstances of the case , who can suppose otherwise than to believe his aim is to intercept the German regiments . '' 
Each of us has his frigates and smaller vessels . 
Oakes will have a heavy time of it out yonder in the very chops of the channel , with a westerly swell heaving in against this ebb . '' 
Now , it is possible Sir Gervaise may have gone about ; as soon as the flood made ; in which case he ought to bear nearly west of us , and you will also look in that direction . 
`` Oakes must be well off , mid-channel , by this time , Captain Stowel ? '' 
There is no man whose orders I obey more willingly or more to my own advantage ; always excepting thoseof Admiral Oakes , who , being commander-in-chief , overlays us all with his anchor . 
Thereader will remember that the wind had not become fresh when Sir Gervaise Oakes got into his barge , with the intention of carrying his fleet to sea . 
At all events , while most of his captains sensibly felt themselves less of commanders , while Sir Gervaise was on board or around their ships , than when he was in the cabin of the Plantagenet , the peace was rarely broken between them , and he was generally beloved as well as obeyed . 
In passing one of the ships , he made a sign to his coxswain to cause the boat 's crew to lay on their oars , when he hailed the vessel , and the following dialogue occurred . 
`` He is , Sir Gervaise ; will you see him , sir ? '' 
Sir Gervaise waved his hand , Parkersmiled and bowed his thanks , and the two parted with feelings of perfect kindness , notwithstanding the little skirmish with which the interview had commenced . 
`` That 's a good fellow , that old Parker , '' said Sir Gervaise to his purser , whom he was carrying off good-naturedly to the ship , lest he might lose his passage ; `` and I wonder how he let his ship get her nose under water , in that fashion . 
Yes ; a good fellow is Parker ; and , Locker , '' -- to his own man , who was also in the boat ; -- `` mind you send him twoof the best pieces of that brawn -- hey ! 
In general , this nobleman 's intercourse with his superiors in naval rank , betrayed the consciousness of his own superiority in civil rank ; but , Sir Gervaise being of an old family , and quite as rich as he was himself , the vice-admiral commanded more of his homage than was customary . 
His ship was full of `` nobs , '' as they term it in the British navy , or the sons and relatives of nobles ; and it was by no means an uncommon thing for her messes to have their jokes at the expense of even flag-officers , who were believed to be a little ignorant of the peculiar sensibilities that are rightly enough imagined to characterize social station . 
All within hearing smiled , even to the rough old tars , who were astraddle of the yards ; and even Sir Gervaise 's lip curled a little , though he was not exactly in a joking humour . 
`` Yes -- yes -- that 's the way with most of them St. James cruisers , '' continued the vice-admiral , as he rowed away . 
The arrival of Sir Gervaise on board his own ship was always an event in the fleet , even though his absence had lasted no longer than twenty-four hours . 
`` Good-morning , Greenly , good-morning to you all , gentlemen , '' said the vice-admiral , bowing to the quarter-deck in gross , in return for the ` present-arms , ' and rattling of drums , and lowering of hats that greeted his arrival ; `` a fine day , and it is likely we shall have a fresh breeze . 
Of course , all means of communication between the Plantagenet and the vessels still at anchor , had ceased , except by sending signals down the line ; but , to those Sir Gervaise had no recourse , since he was satisfied Bluewater understood his plans , and he then entertained no manner of doubt of his friend 's willingness to aid them . 
One of the characteristics of Sir Gervaise Oakes was to despise all petty means of annoyance ; usually he disdained even to turn aside to chase a smuggler . 
Fishermen he never molested at all ; and , on the whole , he carried on a marine warfare , a century since , in a way that some of his successors might have imitated to advantage in our own times . 
Like that high-spirited Irishman , Caldwell , -LSB- 2 -RSB- who conducted a blockade in the Chesapeake , at the commencement of the revolution , with so much liberality , that his enemies actually sent him an invitation to a public dinner , Sir Gervaise knew how to distinguish between the combatant and the non-combatant , and heartily disdained all the money-making parts of his profession , though large sums had fallen into his hands , in this way , as pure God-sends . 
No notice was taken , therefore , of anything that had not a warlike look ; the noble old ship standing steadily on towards the French coast , as the mastiff passes the cur , on his way to encounter another animal , of a mould and courage more worthy of his powers . 
Greenly , '' said Sir Gervaise , as the captain came down from his perch , in consequence of the gathering obscurity of evening , followed by half-a-dozen lieutenants and midshipmen , who had been aloft as volunteers . 
`` My lord is a gallant officer , and no bad seaman , for his years , notwithstanding , Sir Gervaise , '' observed Greenly , who generally took the part of the absent , whenever his superior felt disposed to berate them . 
I know very well , were I to signal Morganic to run into Brest , he 'd do it ; but whether he would go in , ring-tail-boom or jib-boom first , I could n't tell till I saw it . 
Here Sir Gervaise laughed heartily at the picture of the awkward creature to which his own imagination had given birth ; Greenly joining in the merriment , partly from the oddity of the conceit , and partly from the docility with which a commander-in-chief 's jokes are usually received . 
Sir Gervaise kept no less than three servants in livery , as a part of his personal establishment , tolerating Galleygo , and one or two more of the same stamp , as a homage due to Neptune . 
`` Your health , Captain Greenly -- Atwood , I remember you , '' said the vice-admiral , nodding his head familiarly to his two guests , on the eve of tossing off a glass of sherry . 
Most extraordinary scenes have we had ashore , yonder , Greenly , with an old Devonshire baronet , who slipped and is off for the other world , while we were in his house . '' 
`` Magrath has told me something of it , sir ; and he tells me the fill-us null-us -- hang me if I can make out his gibberish , five minutes after it was told to me . '' 
Sir Gervaise then went on deck , and paced the poop for an hour , looking anxiously ahead , in quest of the French signals ; and , failing of discovering them , he was fain to seek his berth out of sheer fatigue . 
Before he did this , however , the necessary orders were given ; and that to call him , should anything out of the common track occur , was repeated no less than four times . 
As the scene then offered to his view , as well as the impression it made on his mind , will sufficiently explain to the reader the state of affairs , some six hours later than the time last included in our account , we refer him to those for his own impressions . 
Still , Sir Gervaise saw that his ships bore up nobly against the fierce strife . 
These several circumstances struck Sir Gervaise , the moment his foot touched the poop , where he found Greenly keeping an anxious look-out on the state of the weather and the condition of his own ship ; leaning at the same time , against the spanker-boom to steady himself in the gusts of the gale . 
The vice-admiral braced his own well-knit and compact frame , by spreading his legs , and then he turned his handsome but weather-beaten face towards the line , scanning each ship in succession , as she lay over to the wind , and came wallowing on , shoving aside vast mounds of water with her bows , her masts describing short arcs in the air , and her hull rolling to windward , and then lurching , as if boring her way through the ocean . 
cried Sir Gervaise , heartily , as soon as his eye had taken in the leading peculiarities of the view . 
Sir Gervaise laughed , and rubbed his hands , and then he turned to look for the Active , the only other vessel of his division . 
This little cutter was dancing over the seas , half the time under water , notwithstanding , under the head of her mainsail , broad off , on the admiral 's weather-beam ; finding no difficulty in maintaining her station there , in the absence of all top-hamper , and favoured by the lowness of her hull . 
`` I was in hopes we might see something of him , when the light returned this morning . '' 
`` Now for the number of the sails , ahead , '' said Sir Gervaise , as he , Greenly , and Bunting , each levelled a glass at the frigate , on board which the next signal was momentarily expected . 
demanded Sir Gervaise , a sea having struck the side of the ship and thrown so much spray into his face as to reduce him to the necessity of using his pocket-handkerchief , at the very moment he was anxious to be looking through his glass . 
`` Will not that be putting the French exactly between our two divisions , Sir Gervaise , and give him the advantage of dividing our force . 
If he stand far , on a nor-nor-west course , I think he will infallibly get between us and Admiral Bluewater . '' 
`` And what will he gain by that , Greenly ? 
-- What , according to your notions of matters and things , will be the great advantage of having an English fleet on each side of him ! '' 
`` Not much , certainly , Sir Gervaise , '' answered Greenly , laughing ; `` if these fleets were at all equal to his own . 
But as they will be much inferior to him , the Comte may manage to close with one division , while the other is so far off as to be unable to assist ; and one hour of a hot fire may dispose of the victory . '' 
Here Sir Gervaise turned on his heel , and began to pace the poop , for he was slightly vexed , though not angered . 
Such little dialogues often occurred between him and his captain , the latter knowing that his commander 's greatest professional failing was excess of daring , while he felt that his own reputation was too well established to be afraid to inculcate prudence . 
Next to the honour of the flag , and his own perhaps , Greenly felt the greatest interest in that of Sir Gervaise Oakes , under whom he had served as midshipman , lieutenant , and captain ; and this his superior knew , a circumstance that would have excused far greater liberties . 
After moving swiftly to and fro several times , the vice-admiral began to cool , and then he forgot this passing ebullition of quick feelings . 
They conversed together , in a most friendly manner , Sir Gervaise being even unusually frank and communicative , in order to prove he was not displeased , the matter in discussion being the state of the ship and the situation of the crew . 
demanded Sir Gervaise a little sharply , for he suspected it was no more than one of the ships ahead , already signalled . 
`` No , Sir Jarvy , '' answered the top-man , hitching his trowsers with one hand , and smoothing the hair on his forehead with the other ; `` but out here , to the nor ` ard and west ` ard , on our weather-quarter . 
`` I rather think not , Sir Gervaise ; it would be too far to windward for any of his two-deckers . 
Several of these vessels , however , were small ; and , the vice-admiral , after a long and anxious survey , lowered his glass and turned to his captain in order to compare opinions . 
`` Well , Greenly , '' he asked , `` what do you make of them , now ? 
His five ships , now , and this westerly position , would make a cheering prospect for us . 
He did not like the circumstance of the Druid 's being alone visible , and she , too , under what in so heavy a gale , might be deemed a press of canvass . 
He suggested , therefore , the probability that the ship was alone , and that her object might be to speak them . 
This was a point on which the vice-admiral prided himself ; and by compelling his captains rigidly to respect their line of sailing , and by keeping the same ships and officers , as much as possible , under his orders , each captain of the fleet had got to know his own vessel 's rate of speed , and all the other qualities that were necessary to maintain her precise position . 
Sir Gervaise placed his hands behind his back , paced the deck a minute , and then said decidedly -- `` Bunting , make the Chloe 's signal to ware -- tacking in this sea , and under that short canvass , is out of the question . '' 
Bunting had anticipated this order , and had even ventured clandestinely to direct the quarter-masters to bend on the necessary flags , and Sir Gervaise had scarcely got the words out of his mouth , before the signal was abroad . 
During the few minutes that these evolutions required , Sir Gervaise kept his eye riveted on the vessel ; and when he saw her fairly round , and trimmed by the wind , again , with the mainsail dragging her ahead , to own the truth , he felt mentally relieved . 
The Frenchman didattempt a fire with his main-deck gun ; but , at the first plunge of the ship , a sea slapped up against her weather-bow , and sent a column of water through the port , that drove half its crew into the lee-scuppers . 
Sir Gervaise anxiously watched the effect of the fire , and perceiving that all the shot fell to leeward of the Chloe , he was no longer uneasy about that vessel , and he began to turn his attention to other and more important concerns . 
Sir Gervaise Oakes lost all his constitutional and feverish impatience while the fleets drew nigher and nigher . 
As is not unusual with brave men , who are naturally excitable , as the crisis approached he grew calmer , and obtained a more perfect command over himself ; seeing all things in their true colours , and feeling more and more equal to control them . 
He continued to walk the poop , but it was with a slower step ; and , though his hands were still closed behind his back , the fingers were passive , while his countenance became grave and his eye thoughtful . 
Greenly knew that his interference would now be hazardous ; for whenever the vice-admiral assumed that air , he literally became commander-in-chief ; and any attempt to control or influence him , unless sustained by the communication of new facts , could only draw down resentment on his own head . 
Bunting , too , was aware that the `` admiral was aboard , '' as the officers , among themselves , used to describe this state of their superior 's mind , and was prepared to discharge his own duty in the most silent and rapid manner in his power . 
`` Sir Gervaise , '' -LRB- he pronounced this word Jairvis -RRB- `` Sir Gervaise Oakes , honourablesir , '' he said , with a sneer , `` may be a good seaman , but he 's no linguist . 
Now , there he was , ashore among the dead and dying , just as ignorant of the meaning of filius nullius , which is boy 's Latin , as if he had never seen a horn-book ! 
`` By standing on , on our present course , Captain Greenly , '' observed Sir Gervaise , anxious to justify to himself the evolution he contemplated , `` the rear of our line and the van of the French will be brought within fair range of shot from each other , and , by an accident , we might lose a ship ; since any vessel that was crippled , would necessarily sag directly down upon the enemy . 
These commands were silently obeyed , and presently the Plantagenet was running directly in the troughs of the seas , with quite double her former velocity . 
The other ships answered promptly , each keeping away as her second ahead came down to the proper line of sailing , and all complying to the letter with an order that was very easy of execution . 
Greenly made no answer , though he perfectly understood that the loss of a mast would almost certainly ensure the loss of the ship , did one of his own heavier spars go . 
But this was Sir Gervaise 's greatest weakness as a commander , and he knew it would be useless to attempt persuading him to suffer a single ship under his order to pass the enemy nearer than he went himself in the Plantagenet . 
This was what he called covering his ships ; though it amounted to no more than putting all of them in the jeopardy that happened to be unavoidable , as regarded one or two . 
The Comte de Vervillin seemed at a loss to understand this sudden and extraordinary movement in the van of his enemy . 
His signals followed , and his crews went to their guns ; but it was not an easy matter for ships that persevered in hugging the wind to make any material alterations in their relative positions , in such a gale . 
When he spoke , it was in a gentle , pleasant tone , such as a gentleman might use in the society of women . 
`` His line is lubberly , after all , Greenly ! 
The captain turned towards the rear of the French , and examined the positions of the two ships mentioned with sufficient deliberation ; but Sir Gervaise dropped his head in a musing manner , and began to pace the poop again . 
Once or twice he stopped to look at the rear of the French line , then distant from him quite a league , and as often did he resume his walk . 
His physical excitement returned a little , and a smile struggled round his lip . 
His eye glanced at Greenly , to see if he were suspected , and then all his calmness of exterior returned . 
Greenly obeyed , of course , and he began to think better of audacity in naval warfare , than he had done before , that day . 
This was the usual course of things with these two officers ; one arguing and deciding according to the dictates of a cool judgment , and the other following his impulses quite as much as anything else , until facts supervened to prove that human things are as much controlled by adventitious agencies , the results of remote and unseen causes , as by any well-digested plans laid at the moment . 
In their cooler hours , when they came to reason on the past , the vice-admiral generally consummated his triumphs , by reminding his captain that if he had not been in the way of luck , he never could have profited by it ; no bad creed for a naval officer , who is otherwise prudent and vigilant . 
The French admiral made no signal to engage , and Sir Gervaise had reasons of his own for wishing to pass the enemy 's van , if possible , unnoticed . 
Sir Gervaise smiled as he passed the three first ships , seemingly unnoticed ; but as he drew nearer to the admiral , he felt confident this impunity must cease . 
`` What they meanby it all , Greenly , '' he observed to his companion , `` is more than I can say ; but we will go nearer , and try to find out . 
Greenly was not disposed to remonstrate now , for his prudent temperament was yielding to the excitement of the moment , just reversing the traits of Sir Gervaise 's character ; the one losing his extreme discretion in feeling , as the other gained by the pressure of circumstances . 
Not only was the Foudroyant a heavy ship , carrying French forty-twos below , a circumstance that made her rate as an eighty , but , like the Plantagenet , she was one of the fastest and most weatherly vessels of her class known . 
By `` hugging the wind , '' this noble vessel had got , by this time , materially to windward of her second and third ahead , and had increased her distance essentially from her supports astern . 
In a word , she was far from being in a position to be sustained as she ought to be , unless she edged off herself , a movement that no one on board her seemed to contemplate . 
The next moment , however , satisfied Sir Gervaise that he was mistaken in his last conjecture , the bows of the Foudroyant gradually falling off , until the line of her larboard guns bore , when she made a general discharge of the whole of them , with the exception of those on the lower deck . 
The Carnatic 's side showed a sheet of flame immediately after ; and the Achilles , Lord Morganic , luffing briskly to the wind , so as to bring her guns to bear , followed up the game , like flashes of lightning . 
All three of these ships had directed their fire at le Foudroyant , and the smoke had not yet driven from among her spars , when Sir Gervaise perceived that all three of her top-masts were hanging to leeward . 
Greenly went to look after his duty , while Sir Gervaise continued to pace the poop . 
One of the secrets that Sir Gervaise had taught his captains was to avoid hitting the surface of the sea , if possible , unless that surface was reasonably smooth , and the object intended to be injured was near at hand . 
Greenly turned , gazed an instant in the direction in which the commander-in-chief pointed , and then the truth of what Sir Gervaise had really in view in keeping away , flashed on his mind , as it might be , at a glance . 
Without saying a word , he immediately quitted the poop , and descending even to the lower deck , passed through the whole of his batteries , giving his orders , and examining their condition . 
The few intervening minutes gave Sir Gervaise time to throw a glance around him , and to come to his final decision . 
Sir Gervaise then explained to the captain what his intentions really were , first ordering , himself , -LRB- a very unusual course for one of his habits , -RRB- the first lieutenant , to keep the ship off as much as practicable , without seeming to wish to do so ; but , as the orders will be explained incidentally , in the course of the narrative , it is not necessary to give them here . 
Sir Gervaise rubbed his hands like a man who was delighted , and he beckoned to Bury , who had the trumpet on the quarter-deck , to join him on the poop . 
Trust to him to be in the right place . 
Sir Gervaise got a sight of la Victoire , some hundred and twenty fathoms ahead , just as the roar of the Carnatic 's guns was rushing upon his ears . 
The French commander saw and understood the extreme jeopardy of his consort , and he had already put his helm hard up . 
`` Damn him , run him aboard , if he dare hold on long enough to meet us . '' 
The lieutenant signed with his hand that the order was understood , and the helm being put up , the ship went whirling off to leeward on the summit of a hill of foam . 
A cheer was heard struggling in the tempest , and glancing over his left shoulder , Sir Gervaise perceived the Carnatic shooting out of the smoke , and imitating his own movement , by making another and still ranker sheer to leeward . 
At the same moment she set her mainsail close-reefed , as if determined to outstrip her antagonist , and maintain her station . 
Sir Gervaise , now not a hundred yards from the Carnatic , waved high his hat in exultation and praise ; and old Parker , alone on his own poop , bared his grey hairs in acknowledgment of the compliment . 
As she came round she unavoidably sheered towards her enemies , and Sir Gervaise found it necessary to countermand his last order , and to come swiftly up to the wind , both to avoid her raking broadside , and to prevent running into his own consort . 
Sir Gervaise Oakes had now leisure , and , as the smoke soon cleared before the gale , opportunity , to look about him . 
Most of the French ships had got round ; but , besides being quite as far astern , when they should get up abeam , supposing himself to remain where he was , they would be at very long gun-shot dead to leeward . 
To remain where he was , however , formed no part of his plan , for he was fully resolved to maintain all his advantages . 
The great difficulty was to take possession of his prize , the sea running so high as to render it questionable if a boat would live . 
Being on the weather-beam of la Victoire , as her flag came down , he ordered his own first lieutenant into the larger cutter , and putting half-a-dozen marines , with the proper crew , into the boat , it was soon seen dangling in the air over the cauldron of the ocean ; the oars on-end . 
He immediately made the signal for the fleet to follow the motions of the commander-in-chief . 
The vice-admiral and his captain shook hands cordially on the poop , and the former pointed out to the latter , with honest exultation , the result of his own bold manœuvres . 
Sir Gervaise had directed Galleygo to prepare his breakfast as soon as the people were piped to their own ; but he was still detained on deck in consequence of a movement in one of his vessels , to which it has now become necessary more particularly to recur . 
When near enough to have it made out , this frigate had shown her number ; after which she rested satisfied with carrying sail much harder than any vessel in sight . 
When the fleets engaged , she made an effort to set the fore-top-sail , close-reefed , but several of the critics in the other ships , who occasionally noticed her movements , fancied that some accident must have befallen her , as the canvass was soon taken in , and she appeared disposed to remain content with the sail carried when first seen . 
As this ship was materially to windward of the line , and she was running the whole time a little free , her velocity was much greater than that of the other vessels , and by this time she had got so near that Sir Gervaise observed she was fairly abeam of the Plantagenet , and a little to leeward of the Active . 
Of course her hull , even to the bottom , as she rose on a sea , was plainly visible , and such of her people as were in the tops and rigging could be easily distinguished by the naked eye . 
`` The Druid must have some communication for us from the other division of the fleet , '' observed the vice-admiral to his signal-officer , as they stood watching the movements of the frigate ; `` it is a little extraordinary Blewet does not signal ! 
`` Four hundred and sixteen , ordinary communication , '' observed the vice-admiral , with his eye still at the glass . 
Sir Gervaise now sent a message to his captain to say that he desired his presence . 
This would lessen the Plantagenet 's way , which ship was sensibly drawing ahead of her consorts . 
Sir Gervaise assenting , the change was made , and the effects were soon apparent , not only in the movement of the ship , but in her greater ease and steadiness of motion . 
It was not long before the Druid was within a hundred fathoms of the flag-ship , on her weather-quarter , shoving the bring before her in a way to denote a fearful momentum . 
It was evidently the intention of Captain Blewet to cross the Plantagenet 's stern , and to luff up under her lee-quarter ; the safest point at which he could approach , in so heavy a swell , provided it were done with discretion . 
`` He is truly rigging out his weather fore-topmast-studding-sail-boom , sir ! '' 
It is a man , beyond a doubt , and there he hangs at the boom-end , as if sentenced by a general court-martial . '' 
Sir Gervaise now suppressed every expression of surprise , and his reserve was imitated , quite as a matter of course , by the twenty officers , who , by this time , had assembled on the poop . 
Shaking himself to gain his footing , he raised his cap and bowed to Sir Gervaise , who now saw Wycherly Wychecombe on his poop . 
Sir Gervaise Oakes was not accustomed to betray any surprise he might feel at little events that occurred on duty . 
He returned the bow of Wycherly , coolly , and then , without question or play of feature , turned his eyes on the further movements of the Druid . 
Satisfied that all was right with the frigate , he directed the messenger to follow him , and went below himself , leaving Wycherly to obey as fast as the many inquiries he had to answer as he descended the ladders would allow . 
asked Sir Gervaise , a great deal mollified by the zeal for service in a youth , situated ashore , as he knew Wycherly to be . 
He would have been puzzled himself , perhaps , to have given the real reason why he motioned to the young man to take a chair , while he went into what he called his `` drawingroom ; '' or the beautiful little apartment between the two state-rooms , aft , which was fitted with an elegance that might have been admired in a more permanent dwelling , and whither he always withdrew when disposed to reflection . 
It was probably connected , however , with a latent apprehension of the rear-admiral 's political bias , for , when by himself , he paused fully a minute before he opened the letter . 
Condemning this hesitation as unmanly , he broke the seal , however , and read the contents of a letter , which was couched in the following terms : `` My dear Oakes : -- Since we parted , my mind has undergone some violent misgivings as to the course duty requires of me , in this great crisis . 
Sir Gervaise Oakes read this letter twice with great deliberation ; then he crushed it in his hand , as one would strangle a deadly serpent . 
Not satisfied with this manifestation of distaste , he tore the letter into pieces so small as to render it impossible to imagine its contents , opened a cabin-window , and threw the fragments into the ocean . 
When he fancied that every sign of his friend 's weakness had thus been destroyed , he began to pace the cabin in his usual manner . 
Wycherly heard his step , and wondered at the delay ; but his duty compelled him to pass an uncomfortable halfhour in silence , ere the door opened , and Sir Gervaise appeared . 
Sir Gervaise said this with a little glee , for he was greatly delighted at finding his friend had not committed himself to his messenger . 
The latter , however , was less disposed to excuse himself by such a process , inasmuch as he felt certain that the rear-admiral 's feelings were in the matter he communicated , let the manner have been what it might . 
Wycherly now bowed and left the cabin , while Sir Gervaise sat down and wrote a note to Greenly to request that he would look a little after the comfort of the young man . 
Although he endeavoured to shake off the painful doubts that beset him , and to appear as cheerful as became an officer who had just performed a brilliant exploit , the vice-admiral found it difficult to conceal the shock he had received from Bluewater 's communication . 
Then , again , would interpose his recollections of Bluewater 's integrity and simplicity of character , to reassure him , and give him more cheering hopes for the result . 
Finding himself thus vacillating between hope and dread , the commander-in-chief determined to drive the matter temporarily from his mind , by bestowing his attention on the part of the fleet he had with him . 
The two gentlemen assenting , the vice-admiral was about to lead the way below , when suddenly arresting his footsteps , on the poop-ladder , he said -- `` Did you not tell me , Wychecombe , that the Druid had sprung her foremast ? '' 
Here Sir Gervaise laughed heartily at his own humour , and all near him joined in , as a matter of course . 
`` Do it , Bunting , '' continued Sir Gervaise , nodding his head as he descended the ladder , `` and I warrant you , Daly will answer . 
This order given , Sir Gervaise descended to his cabin . 
`` The worst of these little brushes which lead to nothing , is that they leave as strong a smell of gunpowder in your cabin , Greenly , as if a whole fleet had been destroyed , '' observed the vice-admiral good-humouredly , as he began to help his guests . 
`` You do this day 's success injustice , Sir Gervaise , in calling it only a brush , '' answered the captain , who , to say the truth , had fallen to as heartily upon the delicacies of Galleygo , as if he had not eaten in twenty-four hours . 
Sir Gervaise cared much less for things of this sort than Bluewater , but he naturally cast a glance at the speaker , as this was said , as much as to ask whom he meant . 
`` True , Bluewater has that boy of high hopes and promise with him , too ; '' answered Sir Gervaise in a musing manner , unconscious of what he said . 
Sir Gervaise started from a fit of abstraction , and , turning , he saw his signal officer ready to report . 
These Bowlderos were the servants that Sir Gervaise brought with him from his house , having been born on his estate , and educated as domestics in his own , or his father 's family ; and though long accustomed to a man-of-war , as their ambition never rose above their ordinary service , the steward held them exceedingly cheap . 
The idea struck Sir Gervaise as a good one , and he set about the execution of the project in good earnest . 
Just as he came to l'Hecate64 , an exclamation from Greenly caught his attention , and he inquired its cause . 
Nor was this all : at that important turn in the day , Sir Gervaise Oakes was enabled to make sail on all his ships , setting the fore and mizzen-top-sails close-reefed ; while la Victoire , a fast vessel , was enabled to keep in company by carrying whole courses . 
At the expiration of that time , however , he appeared on the poop , summoning Bunting to his customary duty . 
Perhaps he was also influenced by a desire not to increase his distance from the enemy , it being a part of his plan to keep M. de Vervillin in plain sight so long as the day continued , in order that he might have a tolerable idea of the position of his fleet , during the hours of darkness . 
His present intention was to cause his vessels to pass before him in review , as a general orders his battalions to march past a station occupied by himself and staff , with a view to judge by his own eye of their steadiness and appearance . 
When Sir Gervaise re-appeared on the poop , he was in full uniform , wearing the star of the Bath , as was usual with him on all solemn official occasions . 
At this instant , when the yard-arms of the two ships were about a hundred feet asunder , and just as the Carnatic drew up fairly abeam , Sir Gervaise Oakes raised his hat , stepped quickly to the side of the poop , waved his hand for silence , and spoke with a distinctness that rendered his words audible to all in both vessels . 
`` Captain Parker , '' he said , `` I wish , publicly , to thank you for your noble conduct this day . 
Old Parker could not now have answered had his life depended on it ; but he bowed , and dashed a hand across his eyes . 
`` If His Majesty 's sword be not laid on yourshoulder , for this day 's work , sir , it shall be no fault of mine , '' added Sir Gervaise , waving his hat in adieu . 
While this dialogue lasted , so profound was the stillness in the two ships , that the wash of the water under the bows of the Carnatic , was the only sound to interfere with Sir Gervaise 's clarion voice ; but the instant he ceased to speak , the crews of both vessels rose as one man , and cheered . 
After the usual questions were put and answered , Sir Gervaise informed Goodfellow that he intended to change the order of sailing so as to bring him near the van . 
The Druid succeeded , and Sir Gervaise simply gave Blewet his orders to see the prize into port , and to look after his own fore-mast . 
The vice-admiral having now ascertained , in the most direct manner , the actual condition of his fleet , had dataon which to form his plans for the future . 
But for the letter from Bluewater , he would have been perfectly happy ; the success of the day having infused a spirit into the different vessels , that , of itself , was a pledge of more important results . 
Still he determined to act as if that letter had never been written , finding it impossible to believe that one who had so long been true , could really fail him in the hour of need . 
`` I know his heart better than he knows it himself , '' he caught himself mentally exclaiming , `` and before either of us is a day older , this will I prove to him , to his confusion and my triumph . '' 
He had several short and broken conversations with Wycherly in the course of the afternoon , with a view to ascertain , if possible , the real frame of mind in which his friend had written , but without success , the young man frankly admitting that , owing to a confusion of thought that he modestly attributed to himself , but which Sir Gervaise well knew ought in justice to be imputed to Bluewater , he had not been able to bring away with him any very clear notions of the rear-admiral 's intentions . 
Sir Gervaise Oakes had made the signal for his fleet to tack in succession , from the rear to the van , about an hour before le Scipion had obtained this additional sail . 
At the very first dash of the oars the barge rose on a long , heavy swell that buoyed her up like a bubble , and as the water glided from under her again , it seemed as if she was about to sink into some cavern of the ocean . 
The occupants of the barge , however , were too familiar with their situation to think much of these matters ; and , as soon as Sir Gervaise had assented to Wycherly 's offer to take the tiller , he glanced upward , with a critical eye , in order to scan the Plantagenet 's appearance . 
`` That fellow , Morganic , has got a better excuse for his xebec-rig than I had supposed , Greenly , '' he said , after a minute of observation . 
`` I 'd bet a hundred guineas , Magrath has had some influence over him , in this matter -- give the Blenheim a wider berth , Sir Wycherly , I wish to see how she looks aloft -- he 's a d -- d fellow , that Magrath , '' -- no one swore in Sir Gervaise 's boat but himself , when the vice-admiral 's flag was flying in her bows ; -- `` and he 's just the sort of man to put such a notion into the chaplain 's head . '' 
AsSir Gervaise Oakes ' active mind was liable to such sudden mutations of thought as that described in the close of the last chapter , Greenly neither smiled , nor dwelt on the subject at all ; he simply pointed out to his superior the fact , that they were now abreast of the Thunderer , and desired to know whether it was his pleasure to proceed any further . 
As Sir Gervaise waved his hand , the young noble did not venture to reply , much less to ask a question , though there was not a little speculation on the poop of the Achilles , concerning the meaning of his words . 
`` Upon my word , Parker , '' commenced Sir Gervaise , looking around him at the air of singular domestic comfort that the after-cabin of the ship presented , `` you have a knack of taking a house to sea with you , that no other captain of the fleet possesses ! 
Imarried for the sake of economy , Admiral Oakes . '' 
`` I 'll warrant you , Greenly , that he persuaded Mrs. Parker into that notion , whether true or not . 
I 'll warrant you , he did n't tell herhe married for so sneaking a thing as economy ! 
As soon as all were placed , Sir Gervaise opened his mind . 
`` I have a delicate piece of duty , Captain Parker , '' he commenced , `` which I wish intrusted to yourself . 
`` Yes , Sir Gervaise , '' returned Parker , thoughtfully , as soon as his superior ceased to speak ; `` what you predict , is quite likely to happen . '' 
`` It musthappen , Parker , the wind blowing directly for his haven . 
After passing quite an hour in the cabin of Parker , Sir Gervaise took his leave and re-entered his barge . 
Greenly was attending to the duties of his ship , and Bunting stood in readiness to circulate such orders as it might suit the commander-in-chief to give . 
`` So far , all goes well , gentlemen , '' observed the vice-admiral to the group around him on the poop ; `` and we will now try to count the enemy , to make certain he , too , has no stragglers out to pick up waifs . 
Of her , certainly , I can find no traces . '' 
This circumstance gratified Sir Gervaise , as he was pleased to find his prognostics came true , and he was not sorry to be rid of one of the enemy 's light cruisers ; a species of vessel that often proved embarrassing , after a decided affair , even to the conqueror . 
Then , and not till then , did Sir Gervaise reduce his canvass , having , by means of his glasses , first ascertained that the French had again hauled up their courses , and were moving along at a very easy rate of sailing . 
Previously to quitting the deck , however , he gave very explicit orders to Greenly , who transmitted them to the first lieutenant , that officer or the captain intending to be on the look-out through the night ; the movements of the whole squadron being so dependent on those of the flag-ship . 
Although excitable in trifles , and sometimes a little irritable , Sir Gervaise , in the way of his profession , was a great man on great occasions . 
His temperament was sanguine , and his spirit both decided and bold ; and , in common with all such men who see the truth at all , when he did see it , he saw it so clearly , as to throw all the doubts that beset minds of a less masculine order into the shade . 
On the present occasion , he was sure nothing could well occur to disturb his rest ; and he took it with the composure of one on terra-firma , and in the security of peace . 
Unlike those who are unaccustomed to scenes of excitement , he quietly undressed himself , and his head was no sooner on its pillow , than he fell into a profound sleep . 
`` Well , '' he said , rising to a sitting attitude , and putting the question which first occurs to a seaman , `` how 's the weather ? '' 
`` Have you had a good look-out at the ocean , this morning , Master Galleygo , '' asked Sir Gervaise , drawing his head out of a basin of water , for , by this time , he was halfdressed , and making his preparations for the razor . 
By this time , Sir Gervaise had his face covered with lather , but he forgot the circumstance in a moment . 
As the wind was at the north-west , and the Plantagenet was on the larboard tack , looking in the direction of the Bill of Portland , though much too far to the southward to allow the land to be seen , his own larboard quarter-gallery window commanded a good view of the whole horizon to windward . 
Crossing over from the starboard state-room , which he occupied ex-officio , he opened the window in question , and took a look for himself . 
`` I am happy to tell you , Sir Gervaise , he has been in sight more than an hour , and is closing with us , though shyly and slowly . 
`` You were quite right in your conjecture , Sir Gervaise ; the crippled ship is off , as is one of the frigates , no doubt to see her in . 
Blewet , too , has gone well to windward of the French , though he can fetch into no anchorage short of Portsmouth , if this breeze stand . '' 
At this instant , Sir Gervaise came out of his state-room , his coat in his hand , and with a countenance that was thoughtful . 
He finished dressing with an abstracted air , and would not have known the last garment was on , had not Galleygo given a violent pull on its skirts , in order to smooth the cloth about the shoulders . 
Sir Gervaise rejoined , as his steward did this office for him . 
`` Let Admiral Blue alone , for doing what 's right , '' put in Galleygo , in his usual confident and self-possessed manner . 
Instead of rebuking this interference , which went a little further than common , Greenly was surprised to see the vice-admiral look his steward intently in the face , as if the man had expressed some shrewd and comprehensive truth . 
Then turning to his captain , Sir Gervaise intimated an intention of going on deck to survey the state of things with his own eyes . 
Five minutes later , while Sir Gervaise was running his eye over the signal-book , the Plantagenet 's calls were piping the people to their morning meal , at least an hour earlier than common ; the people repaired to their messes , with a sort of stern joy ; every man in the ship understanding the reason of a summons so unusual . 
Sir Gervaise felt a concern , which he succeeded in concealing , however , at the circumstance that the ships to windward made no more sail ; though he refrained from signalling the rear-admiral to that effect , from tenderness to his friend , and a vague apprehension of what might be the consequences . 
While the crews were eating , he stood gazing , thoughtfully , at the noble spectacle the enemy offered , to leeward , occasionally turning wistful glances at the division that was constantly drawing nearer to windward . 
But Sir Gervaise had no intention of fatiguing his people unnecessarily . 
He had left his private orders with Bunting , and he passed down without an answer or a glance . 
The vice-admiral ordered the doors thrown open , and as the port-lids were up , from the place where he sat he could command glimpses , both to leeward and to windward , that included a view of the enemy , as well as one of his own expected reinforcements . 
This coat Sir Gervaise always wore in battle , unless the weather rendered a `` storm-uniform , '' as he used to term a plainer attire , necessary . 
Just at its close , however , Sir Gervaise leaned forward , and looking through one of the weather-ports of the main cabin , an expression of pleasure illuminated his countenance , as he said -- `` Ah ! 
Sir Gervaise took down the number of the signal that was flying , and then he directed Bunting to show the answering flag , with a similar pennant over it , and to continue this operation so long as the rear-admiral might make his signals . 
Sir Gervaise now looked out each word by its proper number , and wrote it down with his pencil as he proceeded , until the whole read -- `` God sake -- make no signal . 
No sooner was the communication understood , than the paper was torn into minute fragments , the book replaced , and the vice-admiral , turning with a calm determined countenance to Greenly , ordered him to beat to quarters as soon as Bunting could show a signal to the fleet to the same effect . 
Finding himself annoyed by the movements of the servants , Sir Gervaise walked out into the great cabin , which , regardless of its present condition , he began to pace as was his wont when lost in thought . 
All this time Sir Gervaise continued pacing what would have been the centre of his own cabin had the bulk-heads stood , the grim-looking sailors avoiding him with great dexterity , and invariably touching their hats as they were compelled to glide near his person , though everything went on as if he were not present . 
Sir Gervaise might have remained lost in thought much longer than he did , had not the report of a gun recalled him to a consciousness of the scene that was enacting around him . 
This is the second compliment of the same sort that he has paid us already to-day ! '' 
exclaimed Sir Gervaise , surprise overcoming all his discretion . 
The rear-admiral 's division having suddenly hauled up , in a close line ahead , each ship followed her leader as mechanically as if they moved by a common impulse . 
He determined , if possible , to bring Bluewater to terms , and he ordered the Plantagenet to fill . 
Followed by his own division , he wore immediately , and went off under easy sail , quartering , towards Monsieur de Vervillin 's rear , to avoid being raked . 
As the French , with Monsieur de Vervillin , were still half a mile to the southward and eastward of the approaching division of their enemy , the Comte collected all his frigates and corvettes on his starboard hand , leaving a clear approach to Sir Gervaise on his larboard beam . 
He could not , however , come to the conclusion that he would abandon him to the joint efforts of the two hostile divisions ; and so long as the French rear-admiral was occupied by the English force to windward , it left to himself a clear field and no favour in the action with Monsieur de Vervillin . 
He had lived too long in the world not to know that political prejudice was the most demoralizing of all our weaknesses , veiling our private vices under the plausible concealment of the public weal , and rendering even the well-disposed insensible to the wrongs they commit to individuals , by means of the deceptive flattery of serving the community . 
As doubt was more painful than the certainty of his worst forebodings , however , and it was not in his nature to refuse a combat so fairly offered , he was resolved to close with the Comte at every hazard , trusting the issue to God , and his own efforts . 
The Plantagenet presented an eloquent picture of order and preparation , as she drew near the French line , on this memorable occasion . 
Her people were all at quarters , and , as Greenly walked through her batteries , he found every gun on the starboard side loose , levelled , and ready to be fired ; while the opposite merely required a turn or two of the tackles to be cast loose , the priming to be applied , and the loggerhead to follow , in order to be discharged , also . 
When near enough , however , Sir Gervaise gave the order to reduce the canvass of his own ship . 
`` That will do , Greenly , '' he said , in a mild , quiet tone . 
This was the first observable phenomenon connected with the action , but , as it had been expected , Sir Gervaise had used the precaution to lay his ships as near as possible in the positions in which he intended them to fight the battle . 
Sir Gervaise smiled his approbation , and presently he saw the young man ascending the main-rigging , though half concealed in smoke . 
I think his fire slackens , and Bury says , he is certain that his fore-top-mast is already gone . 
After a few more minutes of silent observation , Sir Gervaise remarked that he thought the flashes of the French guns more distant than they had been at first , though , at that instant , not a trace of their enemy was to be discovered , except in the roar of the guns , and in these very flashes , and their effect on the Plantagenet . 
If Greenly were here , now , hewould inquire about his masts , but Iwish to know the position of the ships . '' 
Nothing at all could be seen from the top ; but in the cross-trees , I got a good look through the smoke , and am sorry to say the French rear-admiral is coming down fast on our larboard-quarter , with all his force . 
We shall have him abeam in five minutes . '' 
He ran below with the activity of his years . 
The message found Greenly between the knight-heads , but he hurried aft to the poop to ascertain its object . 
All of these were using muskets as usual , though the vice-admiral never permitted marines to be stationed at a point which he wished to be as clear of smoke , and as much removed from bustle as possible . 
He began to pace this comparatively vacant little deck with a quick step , casting wistful glances towards the larboard-quarter ; but though the smoke occasionally cleared a little in that direction , the firing having much slackened from exhaustion in the men , as well as from injuries given and received , he was unable to detect any signs of a ship . 
Sir Gervaise decided on the character of the vessel , and on his own course , in an instant . 
Stepping to the edge of the poop , with his natural voice , without the aid of a trumpet of any sort , he called out in tones that rose above the roar of the contest , the ominous but familiar nautical words of `` stand by ! '' 
Perhaps a call from powerful lungs -LRB- and the vice-admiral 's voice , when he chose to use it , was like the blast of a clarion -RRB- is clearer and more impressive , when unaided by instruments , than when it comes disguised and unnatural through a tube . 
and other similar admonitions that it is usual for the sea-officer to give , as he is about to commence the strife . 
At this critical moment , Sir Gervaise again looked up , and caught another glimpse of the little flag , as it passed into a vast wreath of smoke ; he saw that the ship was fairly abeam , and , as if doubling all his powers , he shouted the word `` fire ! '' 
Greenly was standing on the lower-deck ladder , with his head just even with the coamings of the hatch , as this order reached him , and he repeated it in a voice scarcely less startling . 
The old Plantagenet trembled to her keel , and even bowed a little at the recoils , but , like one suddenly relieved from a burthen , righted and went on her way none the less active . 
It took the crew of le Pluton , her new adversary , by surprise ; for they had not been able to distinguish the precise position of their enemy ; and , besides doing vast injury to both hull and people , drew her fire at an unpropitious moment . 
So uncertain and hasty , indeed , was the discharge the French ship gave in return , that no small portion of the contents of her guns passed ahead of the Plantagenet , and went into the larboard quarter of le Téméraire , the French admiral 's second ahead . 
`` That was a timely salute , '' said Sir Gervaise , smiling , as soon as the fire of his new enemy had been received without material injury . 
Sir Gervaise , too , met with a sudden and violent check to the current of his feelings . 
He had collected his Bowlderos , and was giving his instructions as to the manner in which they were to follow , and keep near his person , in the expected hand-to-hand encounter , when the heavy rushing of the air , and the swoop of the mass from above , announced what had occurred . 
Turning to the men , he calmly ordered them to aid in getting rid of the incumbrances , and was in the very act of directing Wycherly to join in the same duty , when the latter exclaimed -- `` See , Sir Gervaise , here comes another of the Frenchmen close upon our quarter . 
There , indeed , came a fresh ship , shoving the cloud aside , and , by the clearer atmosphere that seemed to accompany her , apparently bringing down a current of air stronger than common . 
The proximity , too , was fearful , her yard-arms promising to clear those of the Plantagenet only by a few feet , as her dark bows brushed along the admiral 's side . 
To confirm the glorious tidings , the flash and roar of guns on the off-side of the stranger announced the welcome tidings that le Pluton had an enemy of her own to contend with , thus enabling the Plantagenet 's people to throw all their strength on the starboard guns , and pursue their other necessary work without further molestation from the French rear-admiral . 
The gratitude of Sir Gervaise , as the rescuing ship thrust herself in between him and his most formidable assailant was too deep for language . 
He placed his hat mechanically before his face , and thanked God , with a fervour of spirit that never before had attended his thanksgivings . 
This brief act of devotion over , he found the bows of the Cæsar , which ship was advancing very slowly , in order not to pass too far ahead , just abreast of the spot where he stood , and so near that objects were pretty plainly visible . 
Between her knight-heads stood Bluewater , conning the ship , by means of a line of officers , his hat in his hand , waving in encouragement to his own people , while Geoffrey Cleveland held the trumpet at his elbow . 
The instant the place was clear , Sir Gervaise applied the trumpet to his mouth , and called out -- `` God bless you -- Dick ! 
Bluewater smiled , waved his hand , gave an order , and laid aside his trumpet . 
M. des Prez had manoeuvred in the manner he did , at the commencement of the affair , in the hope of drawing Sir Gervaise down upon the division of the Comte de Vervillin ; and , no sooner did he see the first fairly enveloped in smoke , than he wore short round , and joined in the affair , as has been mentioned . 
Throwing out a general signal to engage , he squared away , set everything that would draw on the Cæsar , and arrived in time to save his friend . 
As the Chloe came up abeam , Sir Gervaise appeared in the gangway of the frigate , and , hat in hand , he asked with an accent that was intelligible , though it might not have absolutely stood the test of criticism , -- `` Le Vice-Admiral Oakes demande comment se porte-il , le contre-amiral , le Vicomte des Prez ? '' 
The vicomte smiled at this characteristic manifestation of good-will and courtesy ; and after pausing an instant to choose an expression to soften his refusal , and to express his own sense of the motive of the invitation , he called out -- `` Veuillez bien recevoir nos excuses pour aujourd ` hui , Mons . 
Sir Gervaise got upon one of the quarter-deck guns , and steadying himself against the hammock-cloths , he was in readiness to exchange the greetings he was accustomed to give and to receive from his friend , in the same heartfelt manner as if nothing had occurred to disturb the harmony of their feelings . 
The single glance of the eye , the waving of the hat , and the noble manner in which Bluewater interposed between him and his most dangerous enemy , was still present to his mind , and disposed him even more than common to the kindest feelings of his nature . 
Stowel was already on the poop of the Cæsar , and , as the Chloe came slowly on , he raised his hat in deference to the commander-in-chief . 
It was a point of delicacy with Sir Gervaise never to interfere with any subordinate flag-officer 's vessel any more than duty rigidly required ; consequently his communications with the captain of the Cæsar had usually been of a general nature , verbal orders and criticisms being studiously avoided . 
-- Does he know that we are alongside ? '' 
Stowel looked round , cast his eyes up at the sails , and played with the hilt of his sword . 
The rapid eye of the commander-in-chief detected this embarrassment , and quick as thought he demanded what had happened . 
Sir Gervaise Oakes groaned , and for a few minutes he leaned his head on the hammock-cloths , veiling his face from the sight of men . 
Then he raised his person erect , and said steadily -- `` Run your top-sails to the mast-head , Captain Stowel , and round your ship to . 
The former had been transferred to the place where he was about to breathe his last , at his own urgent request , while his friend had refused to be separated from him , so long as life remained . 
Sir Gervaise did not move until the surgeon ceased speaking ; then he began to pace the tent in mournful silence . 
He understood Magrath 's manner so well , that the last faint hope he had felt from seeking his opinion was gone ; he now knew that his friend must die . 
It required all his fortitude to stand up against this blow ; for , single , childless , and accustomed to each other almost from infancy , these two veteran sailors had got to regard themselves as merely isolated parts of the same being . 
And yet he is easy , Greenly ! 
`` I am glad to hear that much , sir ; for I have been thinking that it is my duty to speak to the rear-admiral on the subject of his brother 's marriage . 
From his own silence on the subject , it is possible -- nay , from allthe circumstances , it is probablehe never knew of it , and there may be reasons why he ought to be informed of the affair . 
As you say he is so easy , would there be an impropriety in mentioning it to him ? '' 
The necessity of doing , his habits of decision , and having an object in view , contributed to relieve his mind by diverting his thoughts to some active duty ; and he seized his hat , bekoned Greenly to follow , and moved across the hill with a rapid pace , taking the path to the cottage . 
Bluewater was awake , and retaining the hand of Mildred affectionately in his own , when his friend entered . 
Relinquishing his hold , however , he grasped the hand of the vice-admiral , and looked earnestly at him , as if he pitied the sorrow that he knew the survivor must feel . 
The rear-admiral regarded his friend intently , as if inviting him to proceed . 
Give me my child , again : -- I can not yet consent to part with her for ever . '' 
`` It is singular , Dick , '' said Sir Gervaise , wiping his eyes , as he looked from a window that commanded a view of the sea , `` that I have left both our flags flying in the Cæsar ! 
`` Let them float a little longer together , Gervaise . 
Sir Gervaise , while he retained an active superintendence of his fleet , and issued the necessary orders right and left , hovered around the bed of Bluewater with the assiduity and almost with the tenderness of a woman ; still not the slightest allusion was made to the recent battles , or to anything that had occurred in the short cruise . 
The speech recorded at the close of the last chapter , was the first words he had uttered which might , in any manner , carry the mind of either back to events that both might wish forgotten . 
The rear-admiral felt this forbearance deeply , and now that the subject was thus accidentally broached between them , he had a desire to say something in continuation . 
Still he waited until the baronet had left the window and taken a seat by his bed . 
`` Gervaise , '' Bluewater then commenced , speaking low from weakness , but speaking distinctly from feeling , `` I can not die without asking your forgiveness . 
Bluewater looked intently at his friend , and a smile of serious satisfaction passed over his pallid countenance as he listened to Sir Gervaise 's words , which were uttered with his usual warmth and sincerity of manner . 
`` I believe you know me better than I know myself , truly , '' he answered , after a thoughtful pause ; `` yes , better than I know myself . 
What a glorious close to our professional career would it have been , Oakes , had I followed you into battle , as was our old practice , and fallen in your wake , imitating your own high example ! '' 
`` We have been friends , and close friends too , for a long period , Gervaise , '' returned Bluewater , stretching his arm from the bed , with the long , thin fingers of the hand extended to meet the other 's grasp ; `` and , yet , I can not recall an act of your 's which I can justly lay to heart , as unkind , or untrue . '' 
In no one act or thought can you justly accuse yourself with injuring me , I should die much happier could I say the same of myself , Oakes ! '' 
I am deeply indebted to you , Oakes , for declining to signal me and my division down , when I foolishly requested that untimely forbearance . 
It will not be long , Oakes , that I shall remain under your orders , '' added the rear-admiral , with a painful smile . 
`` It matters little , now , Gervaise -- it matters little , now . 
We were two light-hearted and gay lads , Oakes , when we first met as boys , fresh from school , and merry as health and spirits could make us . '' 
And yet we carried our lives , as it might be , in our hands , Oakes ! '' 
`` I had an excellent mother , Oakes ! 
Sir Gervaise simply assented , but making no immediate answer , otherwise , a long pause succeeded , during which the vice-admiral fancied that his friend was beginning to doze . 
He was mistaken . 
`` You will be made Viscount Bowldero , for these last affairs , Gervaise , '' the wounded man unexpectedly observed , showing how much his thoughts were still engrossed with the interests of his friend . 
Bluewater looked grateful , rather than pleased ; but he made no answer . 
Now , he fell into a light slumber , from which he did not awake until the time he had himself set for the marriage of Wycherly and Mildred . 
The indomitable good-nature , and the professional nonchalance of Bluewater , by leaving every subordinate undisturbed in the enjoyment of his own personal caprices , had rendered the rear-admiral a greater favourite , in one sense at least , than the commander-in-chief . 
Some twenty minutes elapsed in a profound silence , during which Sir Gervaise did not stir , fancying that his friend again dozed . 
But it was ordered that Bluewater was never to sleep again , until he took the final rest of the dead . 
It was the mind , which had always blazed above the duller lethargy of his body , that buoyed him thus up , giving an unnatural impulse to his physical powers ; an impulse , however , that was but momentary , and which , by means of the reaction , contributed , in the end , to his more speedy dissolution . 
Perceiving , at length , that his friend did not sleep , Sir Gervaise drew near his bed . 
`` Richard , '' he said , gently , `` there is one without , who pines to be admitted . 
`` Gervaise , you will take charge of this boy , when I 'm gone , '' he said ; `` and receive him in your own ship . 
Calmed by these feelings , he soon ceased to weep ; and , promising discretion , was permitted by Sir Gervaise to remain in the room , where he busied himself in the offices of a nurse . 
Another long pause succeeded this exciting little scene , during which Bluewater lay quietly communing with himself and his God . 
Sir Gervaise wrote orders , and read reports , though his eye was never off the countenance of his friend more than a minute or two at a time . 
At length , the rear-admiral aroused himself , again , and began to take an interest once more , in the persons and things around him . 
`` Galleygo , my old fellow-cruiser , '' he said , `` I leave Sir Gervaise more particularly in your care . 
`` By the way , Oakes , '' said Bluewater , with a sudden interest in such a subject , that he never expected to feel again , `` I have heard nothing of the first day 's work , in which , through the little I have gleaned by listening to those around me , I understand you took a two-decker , besides dismasting the French admiral ? '' 
Gervaise , and what is the vigilance of Galleygo to that of the All-seeing eye ! 
He had a reverence for his Creator , and such general notions of his goodness and love , as the well-disposed are apt to feel ; but all the dogmas concerning the lost condition of the human race , the mediation , and the power of faith , floated in his mind as opinions not to be controverted , and yet as scarcely to be felt . 
At such moments , while his opinions would not properly admit him within the pale of any Christian church , in particular , his feelings might have identified him with all . 
In a word , we apprehend he was a tolerably fair example of what vague generalities , when acting on a temperament not indisposed to moral impressions , render the great majority of men ; who flit around the mysteries of a future state , without alighting either on the consolations of faith , or discovering any of those logical conclusions which , half the time unconsciously to themselves , they seem to expect . 
When Bluewater made his last remark , therefore , the vice-admiral looked anxiously at his friend ; and religion for the first time since the other received his hurt , mingled with his reflections . 
He had devoutly , though mentally , returned thanks to God for his victory , but it had never occurred to him that Bluewater might need some preparation for death . 
`` In that you are quite right , Gervaise . 
I consider all churches -- theone holy Catholicchurch , if you will , as but a means furnished by divine benevolence to aid weak men in their pilgrimage ; but I also believe that there is even a shorter way to his forgiveness than through these common avenues . 
`` We will hope so , Oakes , '' taking the vice-admiral 's hand ; `` we will hope so . 
He looked around him a little wistfully ; for , at that moment , he would have given much to be alone with his dying friend . 
But he hesitated to make a request which , it struck him , might seem improper . 
From this embarrassment , however , he was relieved by Bluewater himself , who had the same desire , without the same scruples about confessing it . 
Finding himself alone , Sir Gervaise knelt at the side of the bed and prayed , holding the hand of his friend in both his own . 
The example of Mrs. Dutton , and the yearnings of his own heart , exacted this sacrifice ; when it was over he felt a great relief from sensations that had nearly choked him . 
`` Do you forgive me , Gervaise ? '' 
`` God bless you , Oakes , and keep you the same simple-minded , true-hearted man , you have ever been . '' 
Sir Gervaise buried his face in the bed-clothes , and groaned . 
`` Kiss me , Oakes , '' murmured the rear-admiral . 
The remainder of that night Sir Gervaise Oakes passed in the chamber alone , pacing the floor , recalling the many scenes of pleasure , danger , pain , and triumph through which he and the dead had passed in company . 
With the return of light , he summoned the attendants , and retired to his tent . 
The death of Bluewater was announced to the fleet at sunrise , by hauling down his flag from the mizzen of the Cæsar . 
At noon , it was spread over his coffin , on the main-deck of the ship , agreeably to his own request ; and more than once that day , did some rough old tar use it , to wipe the tear from his eyes . 
Sir Gervaise fairly wore out the Plantagenet , which vessel was broken up three years later , though not until she had carried a blue flag at her main , more than two years . 
In direct opposition to this , it may be said here , that Sir Gervaise refused , for the third time , to be made Viscount Bowldero , with a feeling just the reverse of that of Parker 's ; for , secure of his social position , and careless of politics , he viewed the elevation with an indifference that was a natural consequence enough of his own birth , fortune , and high character . 
It is now five-and-twenty years since we last met ; still I knew him at a glance . 
It was evident , by the vacant look of his countenance , that time and hard service had impaired his faculties , though his body remained entire ; an unusual thing for one who had been so often engaged . 
Still there were glimmerings of lively recollections , and even of strong sensibilities about his eyes , as sudden fancies crossed his mind . 
Once a year , the anniversary of his friend 's interment , he visited that chapel ; and he had now been brought here as much from habit , as by his own desire . 
A chair was provided for him , and he sat facing the tomb , with the large letters before his eyes . 
Still he regarded neither , though he bowed courteously to the salute of the strangers . 
His companion at first seemed a little surprised , if not offended at the intrusion ; but when Wycherly mentioned that they were relatives of the deceased , he also bowed complacently , and made way for the ladies . 
`` Galleygo , '' he said ; but Galleygo had placed himself before Sir Wycherly , and thrust out a hand that looked like a bunch of knuckles . 
He fell in that battle in which you were doubled on by the French -- when you had le Foudroyant on one side of you , and le Pluton on the other -- '' `` I remember it ! '' 
interrupted Sir Gervaise , in a clear strong voice , his eye flashing with something like the fire of youth -- `` I remember it ! 
Sir Gervaise , himself , seemed surprised ; he looked up at the vaulted roof , with a gaze halfbewildered , half-delighted . 
`` Is this Bowldero , or Glamorgan House , my Lord Duke , '' he asked , in a whisper . 
`` It is neither , Admiral Oakes , but Westminster Abbey ; and this is the tomb of your friend , rear-Admiral Richard Bluewater . '' 
He had lived his time , and supplied an instance of the insufficiency of worldly success to complete the destiny of man ; having , in a degree , survived his faculties , and the consciousness of all he had done , and all he merited . 
