During a recent visit to the West Country , among other old friends , we paid our respects to Mrs. Pawkie , the relict of the Provost of that name , who three several times enjoyed the honour of being chief magistrate in Gudetown . 
Since the death of her worthy husband , and the comfortable settlement in life of her youngest daughter , Miss Jenny , who was married last year , to Mr. Caption , Writer to the Signet , she has been , as she told us herself , `` beeking in the lown o ' the conquest which the gudeman had , wi sic an ettling o ' pains and industry , gathered for his family . '' 
Thus , partly by a judicious administration of flattery , and partly also by solicitation , backed by an indirect proposal to share the profits , we succeeded in persuading Mrs. Pawkie to allow us to take the valuable manuscript to Edinburgh , in order to prepare it for publication . 
In this conjuncture of our discoursing , Mrs. Pawkie , my wife , who was sitting by the fire-side in her easy chair , with a cod at her head , for she had what was called a sore time o ` t , said , `` Na , na , gudeman , ye need ne be sae mim ; every body kens , and I ken too , that ye 're ettling at the magistracy . 
Its as plain as a pike staff , gudeman , and I 'll no let ye rest if ye dinna mak me a bailie 's wife or a ' be done -- '' I was not ill pleased to hear Mrs. Pawkie so spiritful ; but I replied , `` Dinna try to stretch your arm , gudewife , farther than your sleeve will let you ; we maun ca ' canny mony a day yet , before we think of dignities . '' 
The letter was from James Portoport , his lordship 's butler , who had been a waiter with Mrs. Pawkie 's mother , and he was inclosing to me a five-pound note to be given to an auld aunty , that was in need . 
One evening , as I was sitting at home , after closing the shop for the night , and conversing concerning the augmentation of our worldly affairs with Mrs. Pawkie and the bairns ; it was a damp raw night ; I mind it just as well as if it had been only yestreen ; who should make his appearance at the room door but the bailie himself ? 
Poor Jenny , has long since fallen into a great decay of circumstances , for she was not overly snod and cleanly in her service ; and so , in time , wore out the endurance of all the houses and families that feed her , till nobody would take her ; by which she was in a manner cast on Mrs. Pawkie 's hands , who , on account of her kindliness towards the bairns in their childhood , has given her a howf among us . 
In verity , as Mrs. Pawkie my wife said , his sermons , in the warm summer afternoons , were just a perfect hushabaa , that no mortal could hearken to without sleeping . 
Shortly , however , before the death of the Doctor , Mr. Pittle had been very attentive to my wife 's full cousin , Miss Lizy Pinkie , I 'll no say on account of the legacy of seven hundred pounds , left her by an uncle that made his money in foreign parts , and died at Portsmouth of the liver complaint , when he was coming home to enjoy himself ; and Mrs. Pawkie told me , that as soon as Mr. Pittle could get a kirk , I need na be surprised if I heard o ' a marriage between him and Miss Lizy . 
Had I been a sordid and interested man , this news could never have given me the satisfaction it did , for Miss Lizy was very fond of my bairns , and it was thought that Peter would have been her heir ; but so far from being concerned at what I heard , I rejoiced thereat , and resolved in secret thought , whenever a vacancy happened , Dr. Swapkirk being then fast wearing away , to exert the best of my ability to get the kirk for Mr. Pittle , not however unless he was previously married to Miss Lizy ; for , to speak out , she was beginning to stand in need of a protector , and both me and Mrs. Pawkie had our fears that she might outlive her income , and in her old age become a cess upon us . 
At the latest , Mrs. Pawkie herself went over to the manse , and staid till she saw him die . 
`` It was a pleasant end , '' she said , for he was a godly , patient man , and we were both sorely grieved , though it was a thing for which we had been long prepared ; and indeed to his family and connections , except for the loss of the stipend , it was a very gentle dispensation , for he had been long a heavy handful , having been for years but , as it were , a breathing lump of mortality , groosy and oozy and doozy , his faculties being shut up and locked in by a dumb palsy . 
`` I wonder to hear you , Bailie , '' said I ; `` I trust and hope no one will ever find me out of the way of justice ; and to convince you that I can do a friendly turn , I 'll no objec to gie you a ' my influence free gratis , if ye 'll gie Mr. Pittle a lift into the kirk ; for , to be plain with you , the worthy young man , who , as ye heard to-day , is no without an ability , has long been fond of Mrs. Pawkie 's cousin , Miss Lizy Pinkie ; and I would fain do all that lies in my power to help on the match . 
`` I 'm come to you as a friend ; both Mrs. Pawkie and me have long discerned that ye have had a look more than common towards our friend , Miss Lizy , and we think it our duty to inquire your intents , before matters gang to greater length . '' 
Finding he was a foreigner , and understanding that strict injunctions were laid on the magistrates by the King and Government anent the egressing of such persons , she thought , for the credit of her house , and the safety of the community at large , that it behoved her to send word to me , then Provost , of this man 's visibility among us ; but as I was not at home , Mrs. Pawkie , my wife , directed the messenger to Bailie Booble 's . 
By this time , the suspicion of a spy in the town had spread far and wide ; and Mrs. Pawkie told me , that there was a palid consternation in every countenance when the black and yellow man , for he had not the looks of the honest folks of this country , was brought up the street between two of the town-officers , to stand an examine before Bailie Booble . 
My new house and shop being forenent the market , I had noted this , and said to Mrs. Pawkie , my wife , what I thought would be the upshot , especially when , towards the afternoon , I observed the commonality gathering in the market-place , and no sparing in their tongues to the farmers ; so , upon her advice , I directed Thomas Snakers to put on the shutters . 
Mrs. Pawkie , who was a tender-hearted mother herself , took in the bairns on hearing this , and we made of them , and the same night , among our acquaintance , we got a small sum raised to assist their mother , who proved a very well bred and respectable lady-like creature . 
When she got better , she was persuaded to take up a school , which she kept for some years , with credit to herself and benefit to the community , till she got a legacy left her by a brother that died in India , the which , being some thousands , caused her to remove into Edinburgh , for the better education of her own children , and it 's seldom that legacies are so well bestowed , for she never forgot Mrs. Pawkie 's kindness , and out of the fore-end of her wealth she sent her a very handsome present . 
Divers matters of elegance have come to us from her , year by year , since syne , and regularly on the anniversary-day of that sore Saturday , as the Saturday following the meal mob was ever after called . 
And I bade Mrs. Pawkie bring in the wine decanters , and requested them to sit down with me and take a glass of wine and a sugar-biscuit ; the civility of which , on my part , soon brought them into a peaceable way of thinking , and they went away , highly commending my politess and hospitality , of which they spoke in the warmest terms to their companion when they returned to the inns , as the waiter , who attended them , over-heard , and told the landlord , who informed me and others of the same in the morning . 
But , on a Saturday night , as I was on the eve of stepping into my bed , I shall never forget it , Mrs. Pawkie was already in and as sound as a door-nail , and I was just crooking my mouth to blow out the candle , when I heard a rap . 
I thereupon went again to Mrs. Pawkie , and shaking her awake , told her what was going on , and a terrified woman she was . 
In my absence , Mrs. Pawkie rose out of her bed , and by some wonderful instinct , collecting all the bairns , went with them to the minister 's house , as to a place of refuge and sanctuary . 
It seems , the mob had taken it into their heads that I had signed , what they called the press-warrants ; and , on driving the gang out of the town , and rescuing the man , they came to revenge themselves on me and mine ; which is the cause , that made me say , it was a miraculous instinct that led Mrs. Pawkie to take the family to Mr. Pittle 's ; for had they been in the house , it is not to be told what the consequences might have been . 
The first thing that we then did was to send the town-officers , who were waiting on as usual for the dribbles of the bottles and the leavings in the bowls , to bring our night-caps ; but I trew few were so lucky as me , for I had a spare wig at home , which Mrs. Pawkie , my wife , a most considerate woman , sent to me ; so that I was , in a manner , to all visibility , none the worse of the ploy , but the rest of the council were perfect oddities in their wigs , and the sorest thing of all was that the exploit of burning the wigs had got wind , so that , when we left the council-room , there was a great congregation of funny weans and misleart tradeslads assembled before the tolbooth , shouting , and like as if they were out of the body with daffing , to see so many of the heads of the town in their night-caps , and no , may be , just so solid at the time as could have been wished . 
When it began to be so dark , that the vessels could no longer be discerned from the churchyard , many went down to the shore , and I took the three babies home with me , and Mrs. Pawkie made tea for them , and they soon began to play with our own younger children , in blythe forgetfulness of the storm ; every now and then , however , the eldest of them , when the shutters rattled , and the lum-head roared , would pause in his innocent daffing , and cower in towards Mrs. Pawkie , as if he was daunted and dismayed by something he knew not what . 
However , I could not positively refuse my compliance , especially as Mrs. Pawkie was requested by Bailie Kilsyth , and those who took an active part in furtherance of the ploy , to be the lady directress of the occasion . 
I heard the noise and rose , but while I was drawing on my stockings , in the chair at the bed head , and telling Mrs. Pawkie to compose herself , for our houses were all insured , I suddenly recollected that Robin had the night before neglected to go his rounds at ten o'clock as usual , and the thought came into my head that the alarm might be one of his inebriated mistakes ; so instead of dressing myself any farther , I went to the window , and looked out through the glass , without opening it , for , being in my night clothes , I was afraid of taking cold . 
I feel myself , however , constrained in spirit to lift aside a small bit of the private curtain , just to show how Mrs. Pawkie comported herself in the progressive vicissitudes of our prosperity , in the act and doing of which I do not wish to throw any slight on her feminine qualities , for , to speak of her as she deserves at my hand , she has been a most excellent wife , and a decent woman , and had aye a ruth and ready hand for the needful . 
Still , to say the truth , she is not without a few little weaknesses like her neighbours , and the ill-less vanity of being thought far ben with the great is among others of her harmless frailties . 
Soon after the inspection ball before spoken of , she said to me that it would be a great benefit and advantage to our family if we could get Bodletonbrae and his sister , and some of the other country gentry , to dine with us . 
I was not very clear about how the benefit was to come to book , for the outlay I thought as likely to o'ergang the profit ; at the same time , not wishing to balk Mrs. Pawkie of a ploy on which I saw her mind was bent , I gave my consent to her and my daughters to send out the cards , and make the necessary preparations . 
It reflected down , as it were , upon themselves , a glaik of the sunshine that shone upon us ; and , although it may be a light thing , as it is seemingly a vain one , to me to say , I am now pretty much of Mrs. Pawkie 's opinion , that our cultivation of an intercourse with the country gentry was , in the end , a benefit to our family , in so far as it obtained , both for my sons and daughters , a degree of countenance that otherwise could hardly have been expected from their connections and fortune , even though I had been twice provost . 
Mrs. Pawkie , on hearing what I had suffered from Mrs. Beaufort , was very zealous that I should punish her to the utmost rigour of the law , even to drumming her out of the town ; but forbearance was my best policy , so I only persuaded my colleagues to order the players to decamp , and to give the Tappit-hen notice , that it would be expedient for the future sale of her pyes and porter , at untimeous hours , that she should flit her howff from our town . 
Then slipping into the house , I took out of the pantry a basket of bread and a cold leg of mutton , which , when Mrs. Pawkie and the servant lassies missed in the morning , they could not divine what had become of , and giving the same to them , with a bottle of wine , for they were very hungry , having tasted nothing all day , I went round to my brother 's , to see at the latest how Richard was . 
Mrs. Pawkie was in a great consternation at my late absence , and when I went home she thought I was ill , I was so pale and flurried , and she wanted to send for the doctor , but I told her that when I was calmed , I would be better ; however , I got no sleep that night . 
But although I have often since had many a good laugh at the sport , I was not overly pleased with Mrs. Pawkie at the time -- particularly as the matter between the deacon 's wife and Jeanie did not end with my interlocutor . 
The two candidates were as civil and as liberal , the one after the other , to Mrs. Pawkie and my daughters , as any gentlemen of a parliamentary understanding could be . 
In short , I was both angered and diverted by their clishmaclavers , and having some need to go into Glasgow , just on the eve of the election , I thought I would , for diversion , give them something in truth to play with ; so saying nothing to my shop lad the night before , nor even to Mrs. Pawkie , -LRB- for the best of women are given to tattling , -RRB- till we were in our beds , I went off early on the morning of the day appointed for choosing the delegate . 
`` What ye say , Provost Pawkie , has in it a solid commodity of judgment and sensibility ; and ye may be sure , that I was not without a cogitation of reflection , that there had been a discreet argument of economy at the bottom of the revolution , which was brought to a criticism yesterday 's afternoon . 
`` It 's no to be deputed , Provost Pawkie , '' replied my friend , somewhat puzzled by what I had said ; `` it 's no to be deputed , that we live in a gigantic vortex , and that every man is bound to make an energetic dispensation for the good of his country ; but I could not have thought that our means had come to sic an alteration and extremity , as that the reverent homage of the Michaelmas dinners could have been enacted , and declared absolute and abolished , by any interpolation less than the omnipotence of parliament . '' 
Accordingly we settled to speak of it as a matter in part decided , that Mr. Hodden and Mr. Fegs were to be the two new counsellors ; and to make the thing sure , as soon as I went home , I told it to Mrs. Pawkie , as a state secret , and laid my injunctions on her not to say a word about it , either to Mrs. Hodden or to Mrs. Fegs , the wives of our two elect ; for I knew her disposition , and that although , to a certainty , not a word of the fact would escape from her , yet she would be utterly unable to rest until she had made the substance of it known , in some way or another ; and as I expected , so it came to pass . 
She went that very night to Mrs. Rickerton , the mother of Mr. Fegs 's wife , and , as I afterwards picked out of her , told the old lady , that may be , ere long , she would hear of some great honour that would come to her family , with other mystical intimations , that pointed plainly to the dignities of the magistracy ; the which , when she had returned home , so worked upon the imagination of Mrs. Rickerton , that , before going to bed , she felt herself obliged to send for her daughter , to the end that she might be delivered and eased of what she had heard . 
