For while that of the one , and he the better clad and better looking , bore that he was `` Kenric the Dark , thral of the land to Philip de Morville , '' that of the other stamped him `` Eadwulf the Red , gros thral '' of the same Norman lord . 
Yet Kenric was of that higher class -- for there were classes even among these miserable beings -- which could not be sold , nor parted from the soil on which they were born , but at their own option ; while Eadwulf , although his own twin-brother , for some cause into which it were needless to inquire , could be sold at any time , or to any person , or even swapped for an animal , or gambled away at the slightest caprice of his owner . 
At the last signal , Kenric rose silently but quickly to his feet , while his dog , though evidently excited by the approaching rally of the chase , remained steady at his couchant position , expectant of his master 's words . 
Kenric looked after him , as he departed , with a troubled eye , and shook his head , as he lost sight of him among the trees in the fore-ground . 
Kenric had not the educated sentiments which lead the most highly civilized of men to sympathize most deeply with the beautiful sounds and sights of nature . 
which succeeded , told Kenric that the varlets and attendants of the chase were busy stopping the slow hounds , whose duty was accomplished so soon as the stag was forced into the field ; and which were now to be replaced by the fleet and fiery alans , used to course and pull down the quarry by dint of downright strength and speed . 
The great brindled gray deer-hound , which had lain thus far peaceful by Kenric 's side , seeing what had passed , sprang out of the fern , unbidden , swam across the Idle in a dozen strokes , and once more headed the hunted deer . 
The young girl was now within six horses ' length of the bridge , when the deer , closely pursued by its original assailants , and finding itself now intercepted by Kenric 's dog `` Kilbuck '' in front , turned once again in the only direction now left it , and wheeled across the bridge at full speed , black with sweat , flecked with white foam-flakes , its tongue hanging from its swollen jaws , its bloodshot eyeballs almost starting from its head , mad with terror and despair . 
No help was nigh , though the Norman nobles saw her peril , and spurred madly to the rescue ; though Kenric started from his lair with a portentous whoop , and , poising his boar spear , rushed down , in the hope to turn the onset to himself . 
In the mean time , while he was accumulating order on order , while pages and horseboys , grooms and esquires , were galloping off , in different directions , as if with spurs of fire , and while the barons themselves were awkwardly endeavoring to perform those ministrations for the fair young creature , which they were much more used themselves to receive at the hands of the softer sex , who were in those rude days often the chirurgeons and leeches , as well as the comforters and soothers of the bed of pain and sickness , than to do such offices for others , the bold defender of Guendolen -- Kenric the darkhaired -- lay in his blood , stark and cold , deemed dead , and quite forgotten , even by the lowest of the Norman varletry , who held themselves too noble to waste services upon a Saxon , much more upon a thral and bondsman . 
The deer was then dragged roughly whence it lay , across the breast of Kenric , in whose left shoulder one of its terrible brow antlers had made a deep gash , while his right arm was badly shattered by a blow of its sharp hoofs . 
But Kenric no one tended , no one caressed , save , `` faithful still , where all were faithless found , '' the brindled staghound , `` Killbuck , '' who licked his face assiduously , with his grim , gory tongue and lips , and besmearing his face with blood and foam , rendered his aspect yet more terrible and death-like . 
But , as she recognized the limbs , stately , though cold and still , and the features , still noble through gore and defilement , a swift horror smote her , that she shook like a leaf , and fell , with a wild , thrilling shriek , `` O , Kenric , Kenric ! '' 
`` I never was rich , as you well know , De Taillebois ; but at the time of the king 's late incursion into Wales , when I was summoned to lead out my power , I had no choice but to mortgage this my fortalice , with its demesne of Waltheofstow , and all its plenishing and stock , castle and thralls , and crops and fisheries , to Abraham of Tadcaster , for nineteen thousand zecchins , to buy their outfitting , horses , and armor ; and this prohibits me from manumitting this man , Kenric , although I would do so right willingly , not for that it would pleasure you only , but that he is a faithful and an honest fellow for a thrall , and right handy , both with arbalast and longbow . 
It will relieve our trusty Kenric from the actual bondage of a corporeal lord and master , and liberate my right good friend and brother in arms , Philip de Morville , from the more galling spiritual bondage of that foul tyrant and perilous oppressor , debt . 
There is no risk , Heaven knows , for Waltheofstow is well worth nineteen thousand zecchins three times told , and , in lieu of usance money , you shall transfer the man Kenric from thee and thine to me and mine , forever . 
We must have Kenric 's consent , however , that all may be in form ; for he is no common thrall , but a serf of the soil , and may not be removed from it , nor manumitted even , save with his own free will . '' 
But she 's troth-plighted to that tall , well-made fellow , Kenric , they say , that saved the lady Guendolen from the stag this morning . 
And so , as I said before , I should not wonder if Kenric should not part with collar , thong , and shackles , if he must needs part too with little Edith the Fair . 
here is Kenric 's home -- the best cabin in the quarter , as the owner is the best man . 
Soul of my soul , Kenric , my first-born and my best one -- thou first borne in , almost a corpse ; and then , my darling and delight -- my fair-haired Edgar 's son dead of this doleful fever . 
And then the manly voice of Kenric replied , but faint for his wounds and wavering for the loss of blood ; `` Wail not for me , mother , '' he said ; `` wail not for me , for I am strong yet , and like to live this many a day -- until thy toils are ended , and then God do to me as seems him good . 
Facing the entrance , a large fire-place , with great projecting jambs , inclosing on each side a long oaken settle , occupied one half the length of the room ; and on one of these , propped up with some spare bedding and clothing , lay the wounded man , Kenric , to whom the Baron de Taillebois owed his beloved child 's life , half recumbent , pale from the loss of blood , yet chafing with annoyance , that he should be thus bedridden , when his strength might have been of avail to others , feebler and less able to exert themselves almost than he , bruised though he was , and gored from the rude encounter . 
But , wholly unconscious of the ill-odored reek , though it streamed up close under his very eyes , and seeing nothing of the chevaliers , who were watching not six paces from him , Kenric lay helpless , straining his nerveless eyes toward the spot where the ruddy western sunlight fell , like a glory , on the pale , quiet features of the dead child , and on the cold , gray , impassive head of the aged mourner , aged far beyond the ordinary course of mortal life , who bent over the rude bier ; and , strange contrast , on the sunny flaxen curls , and embrowned ruddy features of two or three younger children , clustered around the grandam 's knee , silent through awe rather than sorrow , for they were too young as yet to know what death meant , or to comprehend what was that awful gloom which had fallen upon hearth and home . 
Kenric was silent , for he had no consolation to offer , even if consolation could have been availing , in that Such was the spectacle which met the eyes of those high-born men , who had come down from their high place into the lowly village , with the intention of bestowing happiness and awakening gratitude , and who now found themselves placed front to front with one far mightier than themselves , whose presence left no room for joy , even with those the least used to such emotion . 
he said , `` what is this , Kenric , which causes us , in coming down to see if we might not heal up thy heart and cheer thy spirits by good tidings , to find worse sorrow , for which we looked not , nor can reverse it by any mortal doing . 
But we must all die one day , Kenric ; and who knows but it is best to die young ? '' 
`` Come , Kenric , '' said De Morville , cheeringly , `` thou talkest now more like to a gray brother , than to the stout woodman who struckest yon brave blow but a while since , and saved Sir Yvo 's fair lady , Guendolen . 
Kenric 's brow flushed high , whether it was with gratification , or gratitude , or from wounded pride ; but he stuttered confusedly , as he attempted to thank his lord , and only found his tongue as he related to his grandmother , in his native language , the promises and goodly proffers of the castellan ; and she , for a moment , spoke eagerly in reply , but then seemed to forget , and was silent . 
`` So , hark you , Kenric , '' he said ; `` the cure we came to bring you for your bruised bones , and the guerdon for your gallant deed , in two words , is this -- I may not , as you may have heard tell , liberate my serfs , under condition , but I may sell ; and I have sold thee to mine ancient friend and brother in arms , Yvo de Taillebois . '' 
Dost not love liberty , Kenric ? '' 
answered Kenric ; `` when the beast 's brood were within , and might not follow him . 
There being then two classes of serfs existing on British soil , though not recognized as different by law , or in any wise differing in condition , Kenric , himself descended in the third degree from a freeman and landholder , exhibited a fair specimen at the first ; although it by no means followed of course that men in his relative position were actually superior to the progeny of those , who could designate no point before which their ancestors were free . 
And this became evident , at once , to those who looked at the characters of Kenric the Dark , and Eadwulf the Red , of whom the former was in all respects a man of sterling qualities , frank , bold demeanor , and all the finer characteristics of independent , hardy , English manhood ; while the second , though his own brother , was a rude , sullen , thankless , spiritless , obstinate churl , with nothing of the man , except his sordid , sensual appetites , and every thing of the beast , except his tameless pride and indomitable freedom . 
This fact , or rather this condition of things in their physical and moral aspect , has been dwelt upon , somewhat at length , in order to show how it is possible that a gentleman of the highest birth , of intellects , acquirements , ideas of justice and right , vastly more correct than those entertained by the majority of his caste -- a gentleman , sensitive , courteous , kindly , the very mirror of faith and honor -- should have distorted devotion so noble , faith so disinterested , a sense of honor so high , a piety so pure , as that displayed by Kenric the Dark , in his refusal of the bright jewel liberty , in his eloquent assertion of his rights , his sympathies , his spiritual essence as a man , into an act of outrecuidance , almost into a personal affront to his own dignity . 
Certain it is , that he left the cottage which he had entered full of gratitude , and eager to be the bearer of good tidings , disappointed , exasperated against Kenric , vexed that his endeavors to prove his gratitude had been frustrated , and equally uncertain how he should disclose the unwelcome tidings to his daughter , and how reconcile to his host the conduct of the Saxon , which he had remained in the hope of fathoming , and explaining to his satisfaction . 
By degrees the quiet of the calm summer night sank down over the dwelling and garden of Kenric , as guest after guest departed , until no one remained save one old Saxon brother , who sat by the simple coffin , telling his beads in silence , or muttering masses for the soul of the dead , apparently unconscious of any thing passing around him . 
Sorely shaken , and cruelly gored by the stag in trunk and limbs , and yet more sorely shaken in his mind by the agitation and excitement of the angry scene with his master , and by the internal conflict of natural selfishness with strong conscientious will , Kenric lay , with his eyes wide open , gazing on his dead nephew , although his mind was far away , with his head throbbing , and his every nerve jerking and tense with the hot fever . 
Kenric , her distant kinsman and betrothed , was confessedly the best man and most favored servant in the quarter ; and his mother , who had grown old in the service of Sir Philip 's father , whom she had nursed with simple skill through the effects of many a mimic battle in the lists , or real though scarce more dangerous fray , now superannuated , reigned as much the mistress of her son 's hearth as though she had been a free woman , and the cot in which she dwelt her freehold . 
Their greatest care , perhaps , had arisen from the temper , surly , rude , insolent , and provocative , of Eadwulf the Red , Kenric 's brother , who had already , by misconduct , and even actual crime , according to the Norman code , subjected himself to severe penalties , and been reduced , in default of harsher treatment , to the condition of a mere slave , a chattel , saleable like an ox or ass , at the pleasure of their lord . 
And such was the condition of the family whence sprang Kenric and Edith . 
And such had been the doom of the grandfather of Kenric and Eadwulf . 
If I had scruples on that head , they have vanished ; Kenric has convinced me -- '' `` Kenric ! '' 
`` Kenric , lady ? '' 
The sun shall not go down looking upon you still a slave , nor upon your Kenric , nor yet upon his mother . 
In the second place , the scruples of Kenric , which justly appeared so generous and noble to the fine , unsophisticated intellect of the young girl , by no means appeared in the same light to the proud barons , accustomed to regard the Saxon , and more especially the serf , as a being so palpably and manifestly inferior , that he was scarcely deemed to possess rights , much less sentiments or feelings , other than those of the lower animals . 
Send me some ortolans and beccaficos from the table , sir ; and above all , be sure , with the comfits and the Hypocras , you send me the deeds of manumission for Kenric and Edith , all in due form , else I will never hold you true knight any more , or gentle father . '' 
Kenric had in vain striven to soothe his morose and selfish mood , to cheer his desponding and angry , rather than sorrowful , anticipations -- he had pointed out to him that his own liberation from slavery , and elevation to the rank and position of a freeman and military tenant of a fief of land , did not merely render it probable , but actually make it certain , that Eadwulf also would be a freeman , and at liberty to join his kindred in a short time in their new home ; `` for it must be little , indeed , that you know of my heart , '' said the brave and manly peasant , `` or of that of Edith , either , if you believe that either of us could enjoy our own liberty , or feel our own happiness other than unfinished and incomplete , so long as you , our own and only brother , remain in slavery and sorrow . 
replied Kenric , shaking his head , as he waved his hand toward the women ; `` for that would have been the end of it . 
A man who can not feel and comprehend such a sacrifice as Kenric made for all of us , is capable of no sacrifice himself , and is not worthy to be called a man , or to be a freeman . '' 
The procession was closed by another body of twenty more horse-archers , led by two armed esquires ; and with these rode Kenric , close shaven , and his short , cropped locks curling beneath a jaunty blue bonnet , with a heron 's feather , wearing doublet and hose of forest green , with russet doeskin buskins , the silver badge of Sir Yvo de Taillebois on his arm , and in his hand the freeman 's trusty weapon , the puissant English bow , which did such mighty deeds , and won such losthereafter , at those immortal fields of Cressy and Poictiers , and famous Agincourt . 
It is true that , personally , neither Kenric nor Edith had ever known what it is to be free ; but they came of a free , nay ! 
And so it was seen in the deportment of Kenric the serf , and of the slave girl Edith , even in these first days of their newly-acquired freedom . 
Kenric had been always a thinker , though a serf ; his elder brother had been a monk , a man of strong sense and some attainment ; his mother had been the daughter of one who had known , if he had lost , freedom . 
Thereof Kenric -- as he rode along with his harness on his back , and his weapons in his hand , a freeman among freemen , a feudal retainer among the retainers , some Norman , some Saxon , of his noble lord -- was neither louder , nor noisier , nor more exultant , perhaps the reverse , than his wont , though happier far than he had conceived it possible for him to be . 
This was the new home of Kenric and Edith , now by the good offices of the old curate of Bowness made man and wife ; and here , with the good old mother nodding and knitting by the hearth , and two stout boys , Kenric 's varlets , to tend the hounds and hawks , and to do the offices of the small hill farm , they dwelt as happy as the day ; he occupying the responsible position of head-forester of upper Kentdale , and warder of the cotters , shepherds , and verdurers , whose cottages were scattered in the woods and over the hill-sides , and both secure in the favor of their lovely lady , and proud of the confidence of their lord . 
So long as Kenric and his mother remained in the hamlet of Waltheofstow , and he was permitted to associate with them in their quarter , in consequence of the character for patience , honesty , fidelity , and good conduct , which his brother had acquired with his masters , Eadwulf 's temper had been in some sort restrained by the influence , unconfessed indeed , and only half-endured with sullen reluctance , which that brother obtained over him , through his clearer and stronger intellect . 
It was some considerable time before the news of this foul murder reached the ears of Sir Yvo de Taillebois ; and when it did become known to him , and measures were taken by him to reclaim the manor of Waltheofstow , in virtue of the mortgage he had redeemed , it was found that so many prior claims , and that to so enormous an extent , were in existence , as to swallow up the whole of the estates , leaving Sir Yvo a loser of the nineteen thousand zecchins which he had advanced , with nothing to show in return for his outlay beyond the freedom of Kenric and his family . 
During the days which had elapsed between the emancipation of Kenric and his departure from the castle , much had been ascertained , both by the new freeman and his beautiful betrothed , concerning the route which led to their future abode , its actual position , and the wild and savage nature of the country on which it abutted . 
It was his hope to gain sufficient start , in the first instance , to enable him to make off so long before his absence should be discovered , that bloodhounds could not be laid on his track until the scent should be already cold ; and then keeping the forest-ground , and avoiding all cleared or cultivated lands , to cross the Lancaster sands , and thence , by following up the course of the Kent River , on which he knew Kenric would be stationed as verdurer , to gain the interior labyrinth of fells , moors , morasses , and ravines , which at that time occupied the greater part of Westmoreland and Cumberland . 
It was not , indeed , quite so deep in the season , that all the changes so beautifully depicted above had yet occurred , when , late in a clear autumnal evening , Kenric and Edith stood together in the porch of their new home , gazing across the tranquil bosom of the little mere , and down the pastoral valley of the Kent , yet the face of the picture was close to that described in the quotations . 
Something between a shudder and a start seemed to shake the manly form of Kenric for an instant ; and his young wife , perceiving it as she clung to his arm , looked up to his face for explanation . 
`` Kenric , '' she said , as he was leaving her , `` this is something more than mere marauders . 
Meanwhile Kenric scaled the crags rapidly , with the hound at his heels , and , when he reached the spot where he had seen the figure , halted , and whistled a bar or two of an old Saxon ballad of Sherwood . 
asked Kenric . 
`` No , '' answered Kenric , sadly ; `` that must not be . 
said Kenric , as he ended his tale , doggedly told , with many sullen interruptions . 
Nothing more passed between them until they reached the threshold of Kenric 's humble dwelling , where , in silence and darkness , with the door ajar , listening to every distant sound of the fitful breeze or passing water , the fair young wife sat awaiting them . 
said Kenric , `` I have it not to give , nor can I ask those who could . 
They parted , with oaths of fidelity and vows of gratitude never to be fulfilled on the part of Eadwulf , with scarce concealed distrust on the part of Kenric . 
It was broad day when the latter returned to his happy home by Kentmere ; and the first object he beheld was his wife , gazing despondingly on his own crossbow and bolts , each branded with his name -- `` Kenric , born thrall of Philip de Morville , '' of which , unwittingly he had disarmed his brother on the night of his arrival . 
Longbefore the dawn had begun to grow gray in the east , Kenric had taken his way to the castle , by a direct path across the hills to a point on the lake shore , where there always lay a small ferry-boat , for the use of the castellan , his household , and vassals . 
The wind , what little of it there was when the heron rose , was from the southward , and the bird flew before it directly toward the cottage of Kenric , rising slowly but strongly into the upper regions of air . 
And , giving head to her jennet , the first of all the train she reached the spot where the birds lay struggling on the grass within ten yards of Kenric 's door , and , as she sprang from her saddle , was caught in the arms of Edith . 
`` Oh , yes , by midnight , girl , if we spur the sharper ; and it is partly on your business that I go , too , child ; for I fancy there is something afoot , that bodes no good to your friend Kenric ; but we 'll nip it in the bud , we 'll nip it in the bud , by St. Agatha ! '' 
Early in the afternoon , while Kenric was absent on his rounds , a single rider , plainly clad , and unarmed , except his sword , made his appearance , riding up the valley from the direction of Kendal , and soon pulling up at the cottage , inquired the road to Rydal . 
So soon as Kenric returned from his rounds , he was informed of all that had passed , when , simply observing , `` Ha ! 
`` I will never leave you , Kenric . 
Second , you will not stay to be outraged yourself , before my very eyes , without my having power to aid you -- '' `` Kenric ! '' 
`` Nor ever will , Kenric ; though it break my heart to do it . '' 
Many minutes had not passed , before , after a long embrace , and a flood of tears on the part of Edith , the two women mounted on the sturdy pony , the wife in the saddle , and the aged mother seated on a sort of high-backed pillion -- made like the seat of an arm-chair -- and secured by a broad belt to the waist of her daughter , took their way across the wooded hills toward Ambleside , the boy Ralph leading the animal by the head , and two brace of noble alans , his master 's property , which Kenric did not choose to expose to the cupidity of his expected captors , gamboling in front , or following gravely at heel , according to their various qualities of age and temper . 
Kenric was now becoming restless and impatient , and , as is frequently the case when we are awaiting even the most painful things , which we know to be inevitable , he soon found himself wishing that the time would come , that he might know the worst , and feeling that the suspense was worse than almost any reality . 
asked Kenric , whose hand was on the bar . 
`` The man is not here ; natheless , I open , '' replied Kenric ; and , with the word , he threw open the door ; and the men-at-arms rushed in , brandishing their axes , as if they expected resistance . 
I am a free Saxon man , Kenric , the son of Werewulf , tenant in fee to my Lord of Taillebois , and his verdurer and forester for this his manor of Kentmere . '' 
replied Kenric , stoutly . 
`` You would both swear falsely , '' said Kenric , coolly . 
`` Kenric and Eadwulf are but two names for one man ; and here is the proof . 
This crossbow , with the name Kenric burned into the stock , is that which Eadwulf carried on the day when he fled ; and these quarrels tally , point for point , with those which were found in the carcass of the deer he slew , and in the body of the bailiff he murdered ! '' 
`` That it is my crowwbow ; that my name is Kenric , by-named the Dark ; that I am , as I said before , a free Saxon , and have dwelt here on Kentmere since the last days of July ; so that I could have slain neither deer nor bailiff , between Thurgoland and Bolterstone , in September . 
asked Kenric , respectfully , having been instructed by Sir Yvo . 
`` I resist not , '' said Kenric . 
To supper accordingly he now applied himself , two or three of the men who had been with him at the seizure of Kenric , crowding into the room and taking the lower end of the table , where another great fire was blazing , and others coming in and out in succession , until all were satisfied . 
Then , for the first time , did Sir Yvo turn his eyes toward the intruder , who stood at the farther end of the hall , irresolute how to act , with his men clustered in a sullen group behind him , and the prisoner Kenric held firmly by the shoulders by two stout troopers . 
`` That man , whom I see some one hath brutally misused , of which more anon , is not called Eadwulf at all , but Kenric . 
Does this man Eadwulf , or Kenric , claim to be free , or confess himself to be a villeyn ? '' 
`` I claim to be a freeman , Sir Yvo ; and I demand liberty to prove it , '' cried Kenric . 
`` Well , then , what needs this man Kenric ? '' 
to the Sheriff of Lancaster and Westmoreland , greeting -- Kenric , the son of Werewulf , of Kentmere , in Westmoreland , has showed to us , that whereas he is a free man , and ready to prove his liberty , Sir Foulke d'Oilly , knight and baron of Waltheofstow and Fenton in the Forest of Sherwood , in Yorkshire , claiming him to be his nief , unjustly vexes him ; and therefore we command you , that if the aforesaid Kenric shall make you secure touching the proving of his liberty , then put that plea before our justices , at the first assizes , when they shall come into those parts , to wit , in our good city of Lancaster , on the first day of December next ensuing , because proof of this kind belongeth not to you to take ; and in the mean time cause the said Kenric to have peace thereupon , and tell the aforesaid Sir Foulke d'Oilly that he may be there , if he will , to prosecute thereof , against the aforesaid Kenric . 
William Fitz Adhelm , knight , and Aradas de Ratcliffe , esquire , both of the county of Westmoreland , are herein bound , jointly and severally , in the sum of two thousand marks , that Kenric , as aforesaid , shall appear at the Lancaster assizes next ensuing , and show cause why he is a freeman , and not a villeyn , as claimed , of Sir Foulke d'Oilly , as aforesaid . 
This is according to the law of England , and Kenric may go his way until the time of the assize , none hindering him in his lawful business . '' 
`` Therefore , '' said Sir Yvo de Taillebois , `` I will pray Sir Foulke d'Oilly to command his vassals , that they release the man Kenric forthwith , nor force me to rescue him by the strong hand . '' 
You , Kenric , tarry here with my harbinger , and get yourself into more fitting guise to return to the castle . 
During the six weeks , which intervened between the liberation of Kenric from the arrest of Sir Foulke d'Oilly , and the day appointed for the holding of the Lancaster assizes , there was great tribulation in the castle of Hawkshead ; and it was known that Sir Yvo de Taillebois was in constant correspondence with the High Justiciary ; flying posts were coming and going , night and day , booted and spurred , through rain or shine , from York , the present abode of Sir Ranulf , to the shores of Windermere . 
At the same time , orders were issued to Kenric , and all his associate foresters and keepers , to bring in Eadwulf , under assurance of pardon , if he might be found in any quarter ; and rewards were offered to stimulate the men to exertion . 
Kenric persisted , alone , after all the rest had resigned the enterprise ; and , relying on his Saxon origin and late servile condition , mingled with the outlaws , told his tale , showed the proclamation , and succeeded in interesting his auditors in his own behalf and that of his brother ; but he , no more than the others , could find any traces of the fugitive , and he began almost to consider it certain that the unhappy Eadwulf had perished among the hills , of the inclemency of the weather . 
On the fourth morning , however , the crier , at command of the court , called Sir Foulke d'Oilly ; who , presently appearing , stated that he was there , in pursuance of the king 's order , to prosecute his claim to the possession of one Eadwulf the Red , alias Kenric , a fugitive villeyn , who had fled from his manor of Waltheofstow , within the precincts of Sherwood Forest , against his , Sir Foulke d'Oilly 's , will ; and who was now in the custody of the sheriff of the county . 
The sheriff of the county was then called into court , to produce the body of the person at issue , and Kenric was placed at the bar , his bondsmen surrendering him to take his trial . 
Sir Yvo de Taillebois then stated the preliminary proceedings , the arrest of Kenric by seizure , his purchasing a writ de libertate probando ; and that , whereas he , the Sheriff , might not try that question in his court , it was now brought up before the Eyre of justices for trial . 
Kenric was then called upon to plead , which he did , by claiming to be a free man , and desiring liberty to prove the same before God and a jury of his countrymen . 
Positively identified and swore to the person at the bar , as the man captured on the 10th day of October , and to the crossbow and bolts produced in court , and branded with the name `` Kenric , '' as taken in his possession . 
Then Sir Foulke d'Oilly , being asked how , when he assumed this person 's name to be Eadwulf , he ascribed to him the ownership of weapons stamped `` Kenric , '' he replied , that `` Kenric '' was a name prepared aforehand , to avert suspicion , and assumed by Eadwulf , so to avoid suspicion . 
Being asked where he showed that Eadwulf had assumed such other name , or that the name `` Kenric '' had ever been assumed by one truly named `` Eadwulf , '' he replied , that `` It was probable . '' 
It so happened that the close-curled hair and the beard , knotted like the wool of a poodle dog , of this man , were of the brightest and most fiery hue of which the human hair is susceptible ; while that of Kenric was of a deep , glossy auburn , falling in loose waves from a broad fair forehead . 
Great sympathy and excitement were manifested throughout the whole court , at this graphic narrative ; and all eyes were turned , especially those of the fair sex , to the fine athletic person and noble features of Kenric , as he stood at the bar , alone of all that company , impassive and unmoved , with looks of pity and admiration . 
But Kenric only shook his head , with a grave smile and a quiet wafture of the hand , as if putting aside the undeserved sympathy . 
Then the bolts or quarrels , which had been extracted from the slaughtered deer and the murdered man were produced in court , yet stained with the blood , and bearing the name of Kenric branded upon the wooden shafts with an iron stamp . 
The crossbow and bolts , found in Kenric 's cottage , and admitted by him to be his property , were also produced , and the quarrels found in the forest tallied from point to point , even to a broken letter in the branding , with those which he acknowledged to be his ; and an expert armorer being summoned , testified that those quarrels were proper ones for that very arbalast , and would not fit one other out of twenty , it being of unusual construction . 
`` Did you ever hear that ` Eadwulf the Red ' should call himself , or be called by others , ` Kenric . '' ' 
`` Was not his name ` Kenric ? ' '' 
`` I think it was ` Kenric . ' '' 
`` Is not that man ` Kenric , ' the brother of ` Eadwulf the Red ? ' '' 
Four other witnesses followed , who all swore positively to the person of the prisoner , as `` Eadwulf the Red , '' and testified to various points in the circumstances of the pursuit and capture , all tending to the identification of Kenric with the fugitive ; and though the counsel for the defense had succeeded , more or less , in shaking the credit of some of the witnesses with the jury , and of raising a doubt concerning the existence of a brother , with whom the fugitive might have been confounded , no head had yet been made against the direct testimony of six witnesses , swearing positively to his person , and against the damaging circumstantial evidence of the crossbow and quarrels . 
When the counsel for the plaintiff rested , and the court adjourned at ten o'clock , for dinner , not a lawyer in the court , except those retained in the defense , but looked on the case of Kenric as hopeless ; and the party of Sir Foulke d'Oilly were consequently in high glee . 
First , we shall show to you that this person at the bar is not , nor ever was called , ` Eadwulf the Red , ' though there may be some slight similarity of person between him and his brother , of that name ; but that he is , and has been called from his cradle to this day , ` Kenric the Dark . ' 
Secondly , we shall show you that this ` Kenric the Dark ' was not in Sherwood Forest , or within fifty miles of it , on the 13th day of September last passed , or on any day within two months thereof . 
Thirdly , we shall show you that this ` Kenric the Dark ' is not serf or villeyn to Sir Foulke d'Oilly , or to any Sir in England ; but a free man , and free tenant of the Lord of Kendal , in the county of Westmoreland . '' 
`` I am the mother of seven sons , in lawful wedlock born ; five of whom , and three grandsons , sleep with their fathers , in the kirkyard of Waltheofstow ; two , as I believe , yet draw the breath of life , biding God 's good time ; ` Kenric the Dark , ' my second born , and ` Eadwulf the Red , ' my youngest . 
Kenric stands yonder , at the bar ; Eadwulf is a wanderer on the moorland . '' 
Yon is Kenric , and Kenric is no more like to Eadwulf , than day is to darkness , or a bright summer sunshine to a thunder-cloud in autumn . '' 
`` I know him well ; his name is Kenric ; his condition , so far as I know , a freeman , and verdurer to Sir Yvo de Taillebois . '' 
On the 12th day of last September , at eight o'clock in the evening , we being then at supper , Kenric came into the hall , by permission , to bring tidings that he had tracked the great mouse-colored hart-royal , which has been known in the dales this hundred years , into a deep dingle at the head of Yewdale , and that he was laid up for the night . 
On the 13th , we were astir before day , and Kenric led us to the lair ; and we hunted that hart all day long on the 13th , and killed him at sunset on the skirts of Skiddaw . 
We had to pass the night on the mountain , and I well remember how Kenric was the best man in collecting firing and making all things comfortable for the night , it being cold , and a keen white-frost . '' 
And he knew Kenric well , and remembered his service particularly on that 13th day of September ; and , to prove the date , he produced a record of the chase , carved on ivory , which was hung from the antlers of that celebrated deer , in the great hall at Hawkshead Castle , recording the length of the hunt , the dogs and horses engaged , and all the circumstances of the great event . 
The bailiff of Kendal was then called , who swore that he knew Kenric , as forester and verdurer , since July last , and that he had seen him since that date almost daily ; for that three days had never passed without his bringing him game for his guest-table , according to the orders of his lord . 
He , of course , testified to all that is known to the readers of this history , and which was not known to the jury or the court ; to his own agency , namely , in the purchase and manumission of the serf Kenric , and to his establishment of him as a free tenant on his lands of Kentmere , in Kendal . 
But I would say that , without his testimony , the defense might have rested safely , when they had shown that the alleged fugitive , ` Kenric , ' was a resident here in Westmoreland , on the day , and long before the day , when he is charged on oath to have been a serf in Yorkshire . 
You may retire , if you wish to deliberate on your verdict , whether the person at the bar be ` Eadwulf the Red , ' gros thrall of Sir Foulke d'Oilly , or ` Kenric the Dark , ' and a true freeman . '' 
`` We find , '' said the foreman , in answer to the eye of the justiciary , `` that the person at the bar , ` Kenric , surnamed the Dark , ' is a free man , and that Sir Foulke d'Oilly hath no claim against his liberty or person . 
Kenric , thou art free ; free of all charge against thee ; free to walk boldly and uprightly before God ; and , so far as you do no wrong , to turn aside for fear of no man . 
Sosoon as the court was opened on the following morning , to the astonishment of all parties , and to that of no one , as it would seem , more than of the grand justiciary himself , Kenric was again introduced ; but this time heavily ironed , and in the charge of two ordinary constables of the hundred . 
After a while , however , by the exertions of the proper officers , order was restored ; and then , as if nothing had occurred to interrupt the thread of his thoughts , De Glanville continued in the matter of Kenric , who still waited in custody of the sheriff 's officers . 
`` Be there any other charges against this man , Kenric , beside this one of murder ? '' 
A solemn pause followed , full of grave expectation , while the officers were removing Kenric from the hall , and while the high-justiciary , his assessors on the bench , the high-constable , the earl mareschal , and the sheriff of the county were engaged in close consultation . 
Before the court adjourned , a messenger came into the hall from the grand jury , and Kenric was re-conducted into the presence , still ironed , and in custody of the officers . 
Sir Ranulf de Glanville opened the parchment scroll , and read aloud , as follows -- `` In the case of Kenric surnamed the Dark , accused of deer-slaying , against the forest statute , and of murder , or homicide , both alleged to have been done and committed in the forest of Sherwood , on the 13th day of September last passed , the grand inquest , now in session , do find that there is no bill , nor any cause of process . 
Eadwulf the Red never recovered from the starvation and exposure endured in his escape and subsequent wanderings ; and , though he received the priceless boon of liberty , and the king 's free pardon for his crimes , though he passed his declining days in the beautiful cottage nigh Kentmere , with his noble brother , his fair wife , and all the treasured little ones about him , who grew up like olive-branches round Kenric 's happy , honored board , with every thing to soothe his stubborn heart and soften his morose and bitter spirit , he lived and died a gloomy , disappointed , bitter , and bad-hearted man , a victim in some sort of the vicious and cruel system which had debased his soul more even than it had degraded his body . 
Yet it was not in that accursed system , altogether ; for the gallant and good Kenric , and his sweet wife , Edith the Fair , were living proofs , even , as the noble poet sings -- `` That gentleness and love and trust Prevail o'er angry wave and gust ; '' and it was no less `` the spur , that the clear spirit doth raise , '' than the grand force of that holiest Saxon institution , Trial by Jury , that raised Kenric from a Saxon serf to be an English freeman . 
