Burroughs -- Bur -- Bur -- Burroughs , I dobelieve ! 
Not George Burroughs , hey ? 
George Burroughs -- I pray thee ! 
said a female , who sat in a dark part of the house with her head so muffled up that nobody could see her face -- I pray thee , George ! 
I will stretch him at your feet , if he refuse to obey me , whatever may be the peril to me or mine . 
I care as little for you , my boy , -- throwing off his outer-garb as he spoke , and preparing for a trial of strength on the spot -- as little for you , George Burroughs , if that isyour name , as I do for your master . 
Speak , if ye are wise ; for if ye do not -- George ! 
George ! 
... No , no , George ! 
said somebody at his elbow , with a timid voice , that appeared to belong to a child . 
The uplifted staff dropped from his hand . 
Here the venerable Increase Mather stood up , and after a short speech to the people and a few words to the court , he begged to know if the individual he saw before him was indeed the George Burroughs who had formerly been a servant of God . 
-- But who is that boy with you , and by what authority are you abroad again , or alive , I might say , if you are the George Burroughs that we knew ? 
Master Burroughs ! 
Oh but I do pity you ; sages though you are -- continued Burroughs , without regarding the interposition . 
We read of this and we believe it ; and I might say that we see the proof now before us -- Brother , I marvel at you -- -- If the woman be unexpectedly deserted by the Father of lies , and if we pursue our advantage now , we may be able both to succeed with her and overthrow him , and thereby -LRB- lowering his voice and stooping toward Burroughs -RRB- and thereby deter a multitude more from entering into the league of death . 
cried Burroughs . 
Why rebuke his levity , when if we are to put faith in what you say , ye are preparing to over-reach the Evil One himself ? 
You must play a sure game , -LRB- for it isa game -RRB- if you hope to convict him of treachery in a case , where according to what you believe , his character is at stake . 
Brother Burroughs ! 
Not much , I am afraid , replied Burroughs , not very much ; but enough I hope and believe , to shake your trust in the chief accuser . 
He had broken it a few days before , he said , while he and the witness were playing together ; he threw away a part of the blade , which he saw her pick up , and when he asked her what she wanted of it , she would n't say ... but he knew her well , and being jest outside o ' the door when he heard her screech , and saw her pull a piece of the broken blade out of her flesh and hold it up to the jury , and say how the shape of old mother Good , who was over tother side o ' the house at the time , had stabbed her with it , he guessed how the judge would like to see the tother part o ' the knife , and hear what he had to say for himself , but he could n't get near enough to speak to nobody , and so he thought he 'd run off to the school-house , where he had left the handle o ' the knife , an ' try to get a mouthful o ' fresh air ; and so ... and so ... arter he 'd got the handle , sure enough , who should he see but that are man there -LRB- pointing to Burroughs -RRB- stavin ' away on a great black horse with a club -- that very club he had now . 
The boy , Robert Eveleth , was treated with favor ; the witness being a large girl was rebuked for the lie instead of being whipped ; the preacher Burroughs from that day forth was regarded with unspeakable terror , and the poor old woman -- she was put to death in due course of law . 
In reply to these reputed facts however , which appear in the grave elaborate chronicles of the church , and are fortified by other facts which were testified to about the same time , in the mother country , we have the word of George Burroughs , a minister of God , who met the accusers at the time , and stood up to them face to face , and denied the truth of their charges , and braved the whole power of them that others were so afraid of . 
Why -- if you were in league with the Evil One yourself brother George , I do not well see how you could hit upon a method more advantageous for him . 
Brother Burroughs ! 
Brother Sewall , said one of the judges who had been brought up to the law ; Master Burroughs , I take it , is not of counsel for the prisoner at the bar ? 
The remark is proper , said Burroughs . 
-- Here the prosecutor stood up , and saying he had made out his case , prayed the direction of the court -- No , no , excuse me , said Burroughs ; no , no , you have taught me how to proceed Sir , and I shall undertake for the wretched woman , whatever may be thought or said by the man of the law . 
Well Martha , said Burroughs -- I am to be your counsel now . 
cried Burroughs . 
Have a care , brother Burroughs ! 
Of a truth , said Burroughs , in reply ; of a truth , I can perceive now why it is , if a man appear to testify in favorof human life that he is regarded as a witness againstthe crown . 
-- But if Mr. Counsellor Burroughs here , who has contrived in my humble opinion , to make the procedure of this court appear -- that is to say -- with all due submission -- appear to be not much better than a laughing-stock to the -- to the -- to my brethren of the bar -- if Mr. Burroughs , I say , if he has nothing more to say -- I beg leave to say -- that is to say -- that I have nothing more to say -- . 
replied Burroughs . 
-- Tut -- tut -- The head-prosecutor jumped up at these words , and with a great show of zeal prayed the judges to put a stop to the consultation , a part of which was of a character -- of a character -- that is to say , of a character -- Burroughs would have interrupted him , but he was hindered by his crafty law-adviser , who told him to let the worthy gentleman cut his own throat in his own way , now he was in the humor for it . 
Burroughs obeyed , and after his adversary had run himself out of breath , arose in reply , and with a gravity and a moderation that weighed prodigiously with the court , called upon the chief-judge to put a stop to such gladiatorial controversy -- What would you have us do ? 
I would have you do nothing more than your duty -- Here the coadjutor of Burroughs , after making a sign to him to face the jury , slid away on tip-toe . 
Well , continued Burroughs , I departed for the shores of that other world , where human life was guarded with such care and jealousy . 
The judges were mute with surprise , and the lawyer started upon his feet and clapped Burroughs on the back , and stood rubbing his hands at the Attorney-general and making mouths at the jury -- Capital ! 
If I have said that which is not true , I shall unsay it -- Pooh , pooh ... your argument 's all the same , and besides , you did not go far enough to make Jerry Smith your witness ... pooh , pooh -- what a fool you are -- But the judges recovered their self-possession , and laid their heads together and asked Burroughs if he had anything more to say . 
I would have no such case on record as that of Mary Dyer ... I would have no Elizabeth Hutchinson offered up -- no such trials , no such graves , no such names for the people to be afraid of and sorry for , ages and ages after the death of a miserable infatuated woman -- a prophetess or a witch , forsooth -- George Burroughs ! 
George Burroughs ! 
George Burroughs , beware ! 
-- you appear to be satisfied with nothing -- I believe in my soul , George Burroughs , that you are no better than a Reformer -- A shudder ran through the whole court . 
what of British law -- that very law by authority whereof , ye are now trying that woman for her life -- what of the -- Here Burroughs dropped into a chair completely out of breath . 
Here the lawyer started up , and after prevailing upon Burroughs to forbear and be still , argued -LRB- with his face to the jury -RRB- five or six points of law , as he called them , every one of which had been argued over and over again at every trial of a serious charge that he had ever been occupied with in the whole course of a long life at the bar ... four being about the propriety of capital punishments in general , and two about the propriety of capital punishments in the particular case of the prisoner at the bar -- whom he protested before God -LRB- for which he had to pay thirteen-pence more -RRB- he believed to be innocent of the charge -- and what was that charge ? 
she answered she did not know -- Burroughs groaned aloud . 
cried Burroughs , what an appeal to the executioners of the law ! 
You have gone through the whole proof with me , step by step -- it is for you to say what is the value of that proof -- Proof , cried Burroughs -- proof ! 
Bravely said , George Burroughs -- bravely put , cried a female , who stood in the dark part of the house . 
cried Burroughs . 
So says the law -- Nonsense -- for if that rule is good , you might prove any-thing -- byany thing , said Burroughs . 
Brother George -- he did not question his motive he said , but brother George Burroughs would have you believe that witches and wizards are no longer permitted upon our earth ; and that sorcery , witchcraft , and spells are done with . 
Every where indeed , and with every people , earth sea and air have been crowded with specters , and the overpeopled sky with mighty shadows -- I do not know a -- Here the great black horse which Burroughs had left underneath a tree , trotted up to the very door , and stood still , with the reigns afloat upon his neck , and thurst his head in over the heads of the people , who gave way on every side , as he struck his iron hoofs on the step , and for a second or two there was a dead quiet over the whole house . 
Not a breath could be heard ... not a whisper -- and the foreman stood up and was about to speak in the name of the twelve , when Burroughs , who could bear it no longer , leaped upon his feet , and turned to the jury with tenfold power , and gasping for breath , called upon each man by name , as he hoped for mercy hereafter , to speak for himself . 
Brother Burroughs ! 
Brother Moody -- Be quiet Master Burroughs . 
I willhave it so ... I willhave it on record -- I will not permit a man of the twelve in such a case to hide himself under the cloak of the majority -- It can not be master Burroughs -- it can not be -- such a thing was never heard of ... gentlemen of the jury , look upon the prisoner . 
Burroughs now saw that he had no hope , and that in a moment the poor soul before him would bear the sentence of death . 
He caught up his iron-shod staff , and breaking through the crowd which recoiled from his path as if he were something whose touch would be fatal to life , sprang upon the back of the horse , and gallopped away toward the sea-shore . 
No language on earth , no power on earth can describe the scene that followed his departure , the confusion , the outcry , the terror of the people who saw the fire fly from his rocky path , and heard leap after leap of the charger bounding toward the precipice ; nor the fright of the judges ; nor the pitiable distress and perplexity of the poor childish woman , when she was made fully to understand , after the tumult was over and the dread clamor and fire-flashing had passed away , and every-thing was quiet as the grave -- nothing to be heard but a heavy trample afar off and the dull roar of the sea -- that she must be prepared for death . 
The work of that day was the death of George Burroughs . 
The unhappy allusion that he made to the knife , just before he stopped so suddenly and fixed his eyes upon a young female who sat near him with her back to the light , and her face muffled up so that nobody knew her till after she had gone away , was now in every body 's mouth . 
It was now concluded that what he knew of the perjury of the witnesses , of the sheet and of the knife , he had been told by Mary Elizabeth or by Rachel Dyer , who had been watching him all the livelong day , from a part of the house , where the shadow of a mighty tree fell so as to darken all the faces about her . 
It was Rachel Dyer who spoke out with a voice of authority and reproved him for a part of his wild speech . 
And it was Rachel Dyer who came up to his very side , when he was in array against the judges and the elders and the people , and stood there and spoke to him without fear ; while Mary Elizabeth sat by her side with her hands locked in her lap , and her blue eyes fixed in despair upon the earth . 
Nor were the people mistaken ; for what he knew of the forgery , he did know from Rachel Dyer , and from Mary Elizabeth Dyer , the two quaker women whose holy regard for truth , young as they were , made their simple asseveration of more value than the oath of most people . 
To them was he indebted for the knowledge , though he was not suffered to speak of it -- for the times were not ripe enough , that even as the knife-blade was , the spindle and the sheet were , a wicked forgery ; and the sign that he made to Elizabeth Dyer , when he stopped in the middle of his speech , and the look of sorrow and love which accompanied his endeavor to appease her frightful agitation , as she sat there gasping for breath and clinging to Rachel 's garb , were enough to betray the truth to everybody that saw them . 
It was fatal to him , that look of sorrow and love , and ere long it was fatal to another , to one who loved him with a love so pure and so high as to be without reproach , even while it was without hope ; and it would have been fatal to another in spite of her loveliness , but for the wonderful courage of her ... the heroine of our story , whose behavior throughout a course of sore and bitter trial which continued day after day , and month after month , and year after year , deserves to be perpetuated in marble . 
They knew with whom they had to deal , and the issue proved their sagacity , for when the poor fellow arrived at the fort and related what he had seen , there was nobody to believe the story but Burroughs , and he would not put much faith in it , although he had reason to think well of the man ; for how were the savages to get across the Bay in such a clear still night -- with a sea like the sky , and a sky like the air that men breathe in their boyhood or when they are happy -- without being discovered by the boats ? 
Ah , you may laugh , Mark Smith , but I am satisfied of what I say -- the woods are much too still for the time o ' the year -- Fiddlestick , parson Burroughs ! 
You are skeered when there 's nothin ' at all to be skeered at -- So he is Billy Pray , and yet he aint afeard o ' the old One himself , when other folks air . 
shouted Burroughs . 
If the indians are there , added he ... If they are ! 
... as he saw the whole thirty stretching away all out of breath for a wood which crowned the top of the hill -- If they are ! 
Away with you all , cried Burroughs . 
-- answered all that were nigh Burroughs , and all that were in the fort . 
cried the Major , putting forth his hand to catch at the blanket as it was blown out by a strong breeze ... I do pray you -- He was too late ; for Burroughs bounded over with a shout which appeared to be understood by the savages , who received him with a tremendous war-whoop . 
Their deliverer ... where was he ? 
And Burroughs ... What of Burroughs ? 
-- Did he escape or die ? 
He was carried away captive to the great lakes , and after much vicissitude , trial and suffering which lasted for upwards of a year , came to be an adopted Iroquois , and a voluntary hostage for the faith of the white men of Massachusetts-Bay . 
I will , said Burroughs , going up to the resolute young savage , who stood afar off , and setting his foot upon the bare earth before him with all his might -- I will . 
The youthful savage dropped his bow , threw off his quiver , and plucking the ornamented hatchet from his war-belt , after a tremendous though brief struggle , offered the weapon of death to Burroughs , thereby acknowledging that in some way or other he had injured the pale man . 
Big Bear breathed fiercely and felt for his knife , but Burroughs went up to the bold youth and gave him his hand after the fashion of the whites , and called him brother . 
And from that day the youth was indeed a brother to Burroughs , who being satisfied that Pawteeda , if she married one of her own people , would be happier than with a white man , left her and the savages and the Big Bear and the woods forever , and got back among the white people again , at a period of universal dismay , just in time to see a poor melancholy creature , whom his dear wife had loved years and years before , on trial for witchcraft . 
Why -- how pale and tired you are -- said Mr. Paris , lifting up the candle and holding it so that he could see the face of Burroughs , while his own was in deep shadow . 
-- True -- true , said Burroughs -- very true -- talking to himself in a low voice and without appearing to observe that another was near . 
What have you done , brother George -- how do I know ? 
Ah , you may smile now , brother George ; but you looked serious enough a moment ago , when I opened the door , and if what they say is true -- How did I look , pray ? 
George Burroughs -- I will not be spoken to , thus . 
-- I , a preacher of the gospel -- you , an outcast and a fugitive -- Burroughs drew up with a smile . 
He knew the temper of the aged man , he foresaw that he should soon have the whole truth out of him , and he was prepared for whatever might be the issue . 
Forgive me brother George ... forgive the old man , whose fear hath made him overlook what is due to them , whoever they are , that fly to his habitation for shelter . 
Not pursued by the law , George : I did not say you were ; I do not know that you will be ... but indeed , indeed , my poor unhappy friend , here is my roof , and here am I , ready to share the peril with you , whatever it may be , and whatever the judges and elders and the people may say . 
You were pale as death , George -- Speak louder -- Pale as death , and you did not answer me , nor even appear to see me , till after I had spoken to you two or three times . 
-- She often speaks of you , the dear little babe ... she wears the keep-sake you gave her , and wo n't let any body sit in your place , and if we desire to punish her , we have only to say that uncle George wo n't love her ... The dear child ! 
You never said half so much about her , all the time you lived here ; and I , who know your sincerity and worth and soberness -- to tell you the truth George -- I have been a little sore ... ... So attentive , so quiet and so assiduous ... Very true ... very true ... and to hear yousay so , is enough to make her father 's heart leap for joy . 
Not at all -- not in the least -- no business of mine , brother George -- none at all , if you like Bridget Pope as much as ever -- child though she is -- no business of mine brother Burroughs -- I am sure of that . 
I do acknowledge to you that my heart grows heavy when I think of what she will have to endure , with her sensibility -- poor child -- she is not of the race about her -- There now George -- there it is again ! 
Forgive me George -- forgive me -- I have gone too far . 
Ah George ! 
but the other day as it were ... The other day , George ? 
Dear George -- -- No more on the earth ... no more in the hearts of them that knew her . 
... a wife as beautiful as the day , George , and as good as beautiful ? 
-- No more in the very heart of him , her adopted father , who sat by her and supported her when she drew her last breath -- Dear George ... would you break the old man 's heart ? 
Do n't be angry , George . 
-- But I see how it is , and I shall say no more about Bridgy Pope or the boy , Robert Eveleth , till you are a -- For shame -- Why so , George ? 
Really -- A tip-toe , brother , if you please -- the sight of you may do them good -- I hope so , said Burroughs -- beginning to feel what he had never till that hour had the slightest idea of -- jealousy -- downright jealousy , and of a nature too absurd for belief , except with such as have been afraid in a like way , of losing the chief regard of no matter what -- anything for which they cared ever so little , or ever so much -- a bird or a kitten , a dog or a horse , a child or a woman . 
cried Abigail , peeping out with eyes full of terror , and speaking with a voice which made her father look toward the door as if he expected Burroughs to assume another shape , or somebody else to appear from the darkness behind . 
Why -- Burroughs -- Burroughs -- there , there ! 
there now , there he goes again ! 
-- that 's he -- there , there -- do n't you see him now , father ? 
Why , Burroughs , to be sure -- Burroughs , the bad man -- there -- there -- there -- God help us ! 
I begin to perceive the truth now , said Burroughs , I do not wonder now at your faith , nor at your dreadful terror . 
do n't you know your uncle George ? 
There again -- that 's jest the way he speaks -- help , father , help ! 
Make me believe that aint George Burroughs , if you can , father . 
Why , to be sure it is , cried Burroughs , going a step nearer to the place where the little creature lay , cuddled up in a heap , with a quantity of split-wood and pitch-knots gathered about her . 
-- it isyour uncle George ! 
-- it is indeed -- I see the ring he used to wear -- that 's the very ring ! 
After a while she got near enough to speak ; and holding by her father 's coat all the time , she sidled up to Burroughs , who would not appear to see what she was about , aud lifting up her innocent face , articulated just loud enough to reach him -- There now . 
Well dear -- Off she started , the moment he spoke . 
But finding she was not pursued , she stopped a yard or two from his chair , and peeping over the flap of her father 's coat -- and seeing that the shape was looking another way -- she came a little nearer -- stopped -- a little nearer still -- inch by inch -- stopped once more , and looking up at him , as if she knew not whether to run off or stay , said -- You be Mr. Burroughs -- Iknow ? 
Uncle George -- ee . 
There now -- I told you so -- you be uncle George , baint you ? 
O but it has though ... It is no fault of ours , my friend , said her father , delighted to see her at the knee of Burroughs . 
said the child in a whisper that sounded like a whisper of joy ... dear uncle George ... and he drew her into his lap , and she put her mouth close to his ear and repeated the words again , so that they went into his heart -- O , I do love you , uncle Georgee ! 
When Burroughs arrived at the door , and laid his hand upon the rude latch , he started , for the door flew open of itself ; there was no lock on it , no fastening , neither bolt nor bar . 
He found the two sisters with a large book open before them , and Rachel reading to Elizabeth in a low voice , with her arm about her neck . 
said he . 
They gave him a hearty cheerful shake of the hand ; but he observed , or thought he observed a slight change of colour in the face of Rachel , as he turned his eye to the book and saw a paragraph with her name in it . 
You were reading , said he , as he drew up a chair to the table . 
Thank thee , George ; we had nearly finished ... What are you reading , pray ? 
Speak to her , George ... do speak to her ... I never saw her in this way before . 
Poor soul , said he , going up to her and speaking with visible emotion ; but as he drew near and would have put his hand upon hers , like a brother , she pulled it away ; and then as if suddenly recollecting herself , she rose up , and after a short struggle , turned to him with a smile that affected him even more than her tears , and spoke to him very kindly , and put her hand into his , and prepared to finish the chapter . 
It was the story of the patriarch , who , after cheating his father in his old age , and betraying his brother Esau , went away into the land of the people of the East , where in due course of time he was overreached and betrayed by his mother 's brother ; and the voice of the reader was firm and clear , and her look steady , till she came to these words -- `` And Laban had two daughters : the name of the elder was Lear , and the name of the younger was Rachel . 
A moment more -- and she recovered her voice entirely , and finished the chapter without a sign of emotion , as if she knew in her own soul that Burroughs and Elizabeth were watching her as they had never watched her before . 
Strange morality -- said he , as they laid the Book aside . 
This patriarch , and others who happen to have been greatly favored in that age by the God of the patriarchs were guilty of more than we , with our short-sighted notions of propriety , should be very willing either to overlook or forgive -- George Burroughs -- My dear friend -- what I say is very true , and to pass over David , the man after God 's own heart , I would ask you whether he who cheated his father and his brother , by the help of his mother , while he was yet a youth , and as he grew up laid before the stronger cattle the rods which he had peeled -- as we have it in the Book -- and suffered the cattle that were weak -- as we read there -- to conceive in their own way , so that `` the feebler were Laban 's cattle and the stronger Jacob 's ... whether he , I say ... I see no advantage in this ... we have a faith of our own , said Rachel , interrupting him with a mild seriousness which he dared not contend with . 
I pray thee to spare us , -- and thyself George ... Are we not to bear witness to the truth , Rachel ? 
It may be the truth George , but ... glancing at Elizabeth who sat as if she expected the roof to fall in , or the earth to give way under their feet and swallow them up for their dreadful impiety ... some truths we know are for the strong , and some for the weak . 
Poor child ... there George there ... thee sees the effect of thy truth ... why , Lizzy ! 
I confess to you that I should not like to live as you do ... I dare say , George ... It would be impossible for me to sleep ... No no ... not impossible . 
And I should expect a savage or a bear to drop in , every hour of the day ... Thee would n't always be disappointed George . 
We disregard ceremony , George . 
Why , what are you made of Rachel Dyer ... Of earth , George . 
Not of common earth ... George Burroughs ! 
... Yes , and thee may be very sure that we have not much to be in fear of when I tell thee ... prepare thyself George ... that hardly a day goes over without my seeing some one or two of thy tribe , or of the Iroquois . 
Not up there George ... Where then ? 
It would be no easy matter for me to say : for whoever it is , he will not appear till thee is gone ... why , what 's thee afraid of ? 
... and then he will open the door as thee did , and walk in . 
Thee may put up thy knife George , and lay down thy staff ... they 'll never cross thy path , nor harm a hair of thy head ... How can I be sure of that ? 
I have my doubts , George . 
Be assured of what I say ... thee has nothing to fear ... Would we let thee come , George , if it was n't very safe ? 
Forgive me , said he , forgive me ; and his eyes flashed fire , and Elizabeth hid her face , and Rachel turned away her head . 
said he , looking at both in astonishment , you appear to have a -- He stopped short ... he had an idea that he knew the character of both sisters well ; he had been acquainted with Mary Elizabeth from her childhood up , and with her grave sister from her youth up , and he had always perceived that there was a something in the nature of both , but especially in that of Rachel Dyer , unlike the nature of anybody else that he ever knew ; but he had never been so puzzled by either as he was now -- I hope I have not offended you ? 
said he , at last . 
Do theefeel safe George ? 
Make thyself easy George . 
By showing that I am not afraid to trust to the good-faith of savages ; by showing them that they are safe in trusting to mygood-faith , and above all , that weapons of war , whatever thee may say , George , are not necessary to them who put their trust in the Lord ... What if we were to entrap some of your visiters without your knowledge ? 
Do thee know George , that to be a poo-ka-kee , is to bear a charmed life , as thee would say , not only here , but in the great wilderness ? 
ah ha ... No , no George ... no , no ... I ca n't bear to hear thee ... it reminds me of the poor youth I saved . 
They frightened him almost to death before they would give him up , only because they had a tradition in their tribe that his grandfather was in some way , the cause of my grandmother 's death ; and I am quite sure that he would not have been given up to anybody but me ... . 
But Burroughs , after fetching a breath or two , went back to the door and stood waiting for the voice to be heard again . 
cried Burroughs running up to the door , and then to the window , and then to the fire-place , and then back to the window , and preparing to push the slide away -- Here I be sir -- here -- here -- Well -- if ever ! 
Why do n't thee go to the door George -- starting up and leaving poor Elizabeth on her knees . 
Here Burroughs interrupted the boy , and after informing the sisters of what had occurred while he was with Mr. Paris and the poor children , he made the boy go over the whole story anew , and having done so , he became satisfied in his own soul , that if the conspirators were at work to destroy the poor girl before him , there would be no escape after she was once in their power . 
Be of good cheer , Elizabeth , said he , and as he spoke , he stooped down to set his lips to her forehead . 
George -- George -- we have no time to lose -- what are we to do ? 
said Rachel , putting forth her hand eagerly so as to stay him before he had reached the brow of Elizabeth ; and then as quickly withdrawing it , and faltering out a word or two of self-reproach . 
I do think as thee does -- I do , George ... -LRB- in this matter . -RRB- 
Get thee ready sister -- for my own part -- I -- well George , I have been looking for sorrow and am pretty well prepared for it , thee sees . 
I knew four months ago that I had wagered my life against Judith Hubbard 's life -- I am sorry for Judith -- I should be sorry to bring her to such great shame , to say nothing of death , and were it not for others , and especially for that poor child , -LRB- pointing to Elizabeth -RRB- I would rather lay down my own life -- much rather , if thee 'll believe me George , than do her the great mischief that I now fear must be done to her , if our Elizabeth is to escape the snare . 
He drew a long breath -- George -- thee is going with us ? 
-- what do thee mean , George ? 
Do thee mean death , George ? 
I am a preacher of the gospel -- what may be very proper for me to do , may be very improper for a young beautiful -- George Burroughs -- Forgive me Rachel -- I do ... prepare thyself , my dear Elizabeth , gird up thy loins ; for the day of travail and bitter sorrow is nigh to thee . 
Nay nay -- we should be safer with him -- Our safety is not in George Burroughs , maiden . 
I pray thee George -- do not thou abide here -- by going with us thee may have it in thy power to help a -- in short , we have need of thee George , and thee had better go , even if thee should resolve to come back and outface whatever may be said of thee -- What if I see an angel in my path ? 
I shall come back if I live , said Burroughs . 
Nay nay George -- thee may not see thy way clear to do so -- Hourra there , hourra ! 
George -- it has just occurred to me that if I stay here , I may do Elizabeth more good than if I go with you -- having it in my power to escape , it may be of weight in her favor -- Fiddle-de-dee for your proof cried Robert Eveleth -- that , for all your proof ! 
snapping his fingers -- that for all the good you can do Elizabeth -- I say , Mr. Burroughs -- a word with you -- Burroughs followed him to a far part of the room . 
said he -- No no , George ... let me speak -- Do you know the voice ? 
And so do I , cried Burroughs . 
-- speak to him George ... he does not appear to understand what I say -- entreat him to leave us . 
At last they had come to the high road -- their peril was over -- and they were just beginning to speak above their breath , when Burroughs heard a shot fired afar off -- Hush -- hush -- do n't move ; do n't speak for your lives , cried he , as the animal reared and started away from the path ... soh , soh -- I shall subdue him in a moment -- hark -- that is the tread of a horse -- another -- and another , by my life -- woa ! 
-- My heart misgives me , George -- that youth -- Ah -- another shot -- we are pursued by a troop , and that boy is picking them off -- O Father of mercies ! 
-- George -- George -- Do n't be alarmed -- stay where you are -- keep in the shadow , and if I do not come back immediately , or it you see me pursued , or if -- woa , woa -- or if you see the mare prick up her ears , do n't wait for me , but make the best of your way over that hill yonder -- woa ! 
Saying this , he rode off without waiting for a reply , intending to follow in the rear of the troop , and to lead them astray at the risk of his life , should they appear to be in pursuit of the fugitives . 
He had not gone far , when his horse , hearing the tread of other horses -- a heavy tramp , like that of a troop of cavalry on the charge , sounding through the still midnight air , gave a loud long neigh . 
They were all three carried back to Salem , Burroughs prepared for the worst , Rachel afraid only for Elizabeth , and Elizabeth more dead than alive . 
They put him upon trial on the memorable fifth day of August -LRB- 1692 -RRB- in the midst of the great thunder-storm . 
He was pale and sick and weary , but his bearing was that of a good man -- that of a brave man too , and yet he shook as with an ague , when he saw arrayed against him , no less than eight confessing witches , five or six distempered creatures who believed him to be the cause of their malady , Judith Hubbard , a woman whose character had been at his mercy for a long while -LRB- He knew that of her , which if he had revealed it before she accused him , would have been fatal to her -RRB- John Ruck his own brother-in-law , two or three of his early and very dear friends of the church , in whom he thought he could put all trust , and a score of neighbors on whom he would have called at any other time to speak in his favor . 
Among the bewitched , all of whom swore that Burroughs had pursued them for a long while under one shape or another , were three who swore that of him which they swore of no other individual against whom they appeared . 
Their story was that he had the power of becoming invisible , that he had appeared to them under a variety of shapes in a single day , that he would appear and disappear while they were talking together -- actually vanish away while their eyes were upon him , so that sometimes they could hear his voice in the air , in the earth , or in the sea , long and long after he himself had gone out of their sight . 
They were evidently afraid of him , for they turned pale when he stood up , and covered their faces when he looked at them , and stopped their ears when he spoke to them . 
And when the judges and the elders of the land saw this , they were satisfied of his evil power , and grew mute with terror . 
One of the three chief accusers , a girl , testified that in her agony , a little black man appeared to her , saying that his name was George Burroughs , and bid her set her name to a book which he had with him , bragging at the time that he was a conjuror high above the ordinary rank of witches . 
This being proved , the court consulted together , and for so much gave judgment before they proceeded any further in the trial , that `` George Burroughs had been aided and assisted then and there by the Black Man , who was near in a bodily shape . '' 
And it being proved that he `` made nothing '' of other facts , requiring a bodily strength such they had never seen nor heard of , it was adjudged further by the same court , after a serious consultation , that `` George Burroughs had a devil . '' 
And after this , it being proved that one day when he lived at Casco , he and his wife and his brother-in-law , John Ruck , went after strawberries together to a place about three miles off , on the way to Sacarappa -- `` Burroughs on foot and they on horseback , Burroughs left them and stepped aside into the bushes ; whereupon they halted and hallowed for him , but he not making them any reply , they went homeward with a quick pace , not expecting to see him for a considerable time ; but when they had got near , whom should they see but Burroughs himself with a basket of strawberries newly gathered , waiting for his wife , whom he child for what she had been saying to her brother on the road ; which when they marvelled at , he told them he knew their very thoughts ; and Ruck saying that was more than the devil himself could know , he answered with heat , saying Brother and wife , my God makes known your thoughts to me : all this being proved to the court , they consulted together as before and gave judgment that `` Burroughs had stepped aside only that by the assistance of the Black Man he might put on his invisibility and in that fascinating mist , gratify his own jealous humor to hear what they said of him . '' 
Whereupon she stood forth and repeated the story she had sworn to before the committal of Burroughs -- repeated it in the very presence of God , and of his angels -- repeated it while it thundered and lightened in her face , and the big sweat rolled off the forehead of a man , for whose love , but a few years before , she would have laid down her life -- That man was George Burroughs . 
He appeared as if his heart were broken by her speech , though about his mouth was a patient proud smile -- for near him were Mary Elizabeth Dyer and Rachel Dyer , with their eyes fixed upon him and waiting to be called up in their turn to abide the trial of death ; but so waiting before their judges and their accusers that , women though they were , he felt supported by their presence , trebly fortified by their brave bearing -- Elizabeth pale -- very pale , and watching his look as if she had no hope on earth but in him , no fear but for him -- Rachel standing up as it were with a new stature -- up , with her forehead flashing to the sky and her coarse red hair shining and shivering about her huge head with a frightful fixed gleam -- her cap off , her cloak thrown aside and her distorted shape , for the first time , in full view of the awe-struck multitude . 
cried Burroughs , and he tottered away and snatched at the bare wall , and shook as if he were in the agony of death , and all that saw him were aghast with fear . 
George ... George ... we have indeed little to hope now ... Where is Robert Eveleth ? 
asked Burroughs . 
cried Burroughs . 
Enough -- enough -- cried Burroughs , on finding Matthew Paris so disturbed in his intellect -- enough -- there is not hope now , Rachel . 
... And yet these people who are quaking with terror on every side of us , bowed down with mortal fear at the voice of the Lord in the Sky , it is they that presume to deal with us , who are not afraid of our Father , nor scared by the flashing of his countenance , for life and for death -- Yea George -- Be it so -- Prisoner at the bar -- you are trifling with the court ... You have not answered the charge . 
-- And Judith Hubbard looking up and uncovering her face , about which her cloak had been gathered in the first hurry of her distraction , declared that the last wife of Burroughs , on whom her eyes were fixed at the time , was then actually standing before him and looking him in the face , `` O , with such a look -- so calm , so piteous and so terrible ! '' 
After the uproar had abated in some degree , the judges who were huddled together , as far as they could possibly get from the crowd below , ordered up three more of the witnesses , and were about to speak to them , when Burroughs happening to turn that way also , they cried out as if they were stabbed with a knife , and fell upon the floor at their whole length and were speechless . 
I do not know said Burroughs , who began to give way himself now , with a convulsion of the heart , before the tremendous array of testimony and weight of delusion ; to fear that of a truth preternatural shapes were about him , and that the witnesses were over-persuaded by irresistible power , though he knew himself to be no party in the exercise of such power . 
I do not know , said he : I am utterly confounded by their behaviour . 
`` Which query , '' says a writer who was there at the time , and saw the look of triumph which appeared in the faces of the whole bench , `` did cast Burroughs into very great confusion . '' 
Burroughs looked up to the bench with surprise , then at the people , who were watching every motion of his body as if they expected him to tear away the ponderous fetters and walk forth as free as the wind of the desert , and then at the blacksmith who stood near with his hammer uplifted in the air ; and then his chest heaved and his chains shook , and the people hurried away from his path , and tumbled over each other in their eagerness to escape , and the chief-judge cried out again to the officer to look to the door and be prepared for a rescue . 
This way , this way ; you 'll be so good as to remove a -- a -- a -- -LRB- Looking at Burroughs who stood leaning against the wall -RRB- -- you are to be a -- a -- -LRB- in a whisper of authority -RRB- -- you are to be careful of what you do -- a very hard case , very -- very -- Yes judge -- Well , well -- well , well -- why do n't ye do as I bid you ? 
Why that are ... poh poh , poh -- -LRB- pointing to Burroughs . -RRB- 
Who -- me -- cried Burroughs , waking up from his fit of apathy and looking about on every side . 
Away with him . 
Let me remain , I pray you , cried he , setting his back to the wall and lifting his loaded arms high up in the air -- suffer me to stay here till the jury have said whether or no this heroic woman is worthy of death -- I do beseech you ! 
Take him away , I tell you -- what are ye afraid of ? 
The sheriff hung back -- and the judges , after consulting together , told Burroughs he might stay , and ordered the trial of the women to proceed . 
And a part of the charge proved against her was , that she had been spirited away by the powers of the air , who communicated with her and guarded her at the cost of much human life , on the night when she fled into the deep of the wilderness in company with George Burroughs and Mary Elizabeth Dyer ; each of whom had a like body-guard of invisible creatures , who shot with arrows of certain death on the night of their escape . 
They were interrupted by the jailor , who came to say that George Burroughs , the wizard , having desired much to see Rachel Dyer and Mary Elizabeth Dyer , the confederate witches , before his and their death , he had been permitted by the honorable and merciful judges to do so -- on condition that he should be doubly-ironed at the wrist ; wherefore he , the jailor had now come to fetch her the said Rachel to him the said George . 
No , no -- said he , no , no , you are to stay here . 
I must leave thee ... I must , I must ... would thee have me forsake George Burroughs at the point of death ? 
We never shall meet again I do fear -- I do hope , I might say , for of what avail is it in the extremity of our sorrow ; but others may -- he and thee may Elizabeth -- and who knows but after the first shock of this thy approaching bereavement is over , thee may come to regard this very trial with joy , though we are torn by it , as by the agony of death now -- let us pray . 
And Rachel was then led to the dungeons below , where she saw him that her sister loved , and that a score of other women had loved as it were in spite of their very natures -- for they were bred up in fear of the dark Savage . 
-- One hope -- and but one -- Have a care George Burroughs . 
I know that -- I feel that -- I am sure of it ; nor , to tell you the truth , am I sorry -- Not sorry George -- No -- for even as you are , so am I -- weary of this world -- sick and weary of life . 
Her head sunk upon his shoulder , and her breathing was that of one who struggles with deep emotion . 
-- O George , George ! 
She withdrew the hand which till now he had been holding to his heart with a strong terrible pressure . 
I know thee too well to suppose that I could prevail with thee ; but ... but ... whatever may become of us , why not save Elizabeth , if we may -- If we may George -- but how ? 
Why ... draw nearer to me I pray thee ; we have not much time to be together now , and I would have thee look upon me , as one having a right to comfort thee and to be comforted by thee -- A right ... how George ? 
Of a truth , George . 
... Speak to me as I speak to thee ; what would thee persuade me to , George ? 
That 's all ... George ... Nay , nay ... the fact is my dear friend , as I said before , I. ... I. ... if there be a change here , it will be a speedy one . 
Well -- And if -- and if -- a few weeks more , a few days more , it may be , and our accusers , they who are now dealing death to us , may be brought up in their turn to hear the words of death -- in short Rachel , if you could be persuaded just to -- not to acknowledge -- but just to suffer them to believe you to be a. ... to be a. ... I forget what I was going to say -- A long silence followed -- a silence like that of death -- at last Rachel Dyer spoke : George Burroughs -- I understand thee now , said she , I understand it all . 
O George ! 
I understand thee , George . 
siezing both her hands with all his might , and speaking as if he began to fear -- not to hope -- no , but to fear that she might be over-persuaded -- Yea -- what have I to gain by it ? 
Well George -- By death , you lose the opportunity of doing much good , of bringing the wicked to justice , of aiding them that are now ready to die with terror , of shielding the oppressed -- Well -- Well -- and what more would you have ? 
No , George . 
What if you were to do this ; you would be guilty at the most but of a -- of a -- Of untruth George . 
or to speak a word of untruth to save your life -- George Burroughs -- I pray thee -- suffer me to bid thee farewell . 
You may root up the error that prevails now , and overthrow the destroyer , and hereafter obtain praise for that very untruth , whereby you hinder the shedding of more innocent blood ; praise from every quarter of the earth , praise from every body ; from the people , the preachers , the jury , the elders -- yea from the very judges for having stayed them in their headlong career of guilt -- O George -- But if you die , and your death be sinful -- and would it not be so , if you were to die , where you might escape death ? 
-- Ah George -- I can not Rachel -- I dare not -- I am a preacher of the word of truth . 
I shall obey him , and trust to the inward prompting of that which upholds me and cheers me now -- even now , George , when , but for His Holy Spirit , I should feel as I never felt before , since I came into the world -- altogether alone . 
Cruel -- no no George , no no . 
I feel the rebuke -- George , I must leave thee -- I hear footsteps . 
-- It will soon have passed over , I am sure now -- No George , no ; but I will say this . 
Burroughs groaned aloud -- but he could prevail no further . 
Enough , said he , at last : write as much on this paper , and let me carry it with me . 
They would entrap thee George -- And you too Rachel , if it lay in their power -- Give me that book -- it is the Bible that I gave thee , is it not ? 
She did so ; and giving it into the hands of the Jailor she said to him -- I would have her abide on earth -- my dear , dearsister ! 
-- I would pray to her to live and be happy , if she can ; for she -- O she will have much to make life dear to her , even though she be left alone by the way-side for a little time -- what disturbs thee George ? 
He will betray us -- No -- no -- we have nothing to fear -- Nothing to fear , when he must have been at our elbow and overheard everything we have whispered to each other . 
Look at him George , and thee will be satisfied . 
Burroughs looked up , and saw by the vacant gravity of his hard visage , that the man had not understood a syllable to their prejudice . 
None -- but for the sake of Mary Elizabeth Dyer -- and so -- and so George , we are to part now -- and there -- therefore -- the sooner we part , the better . 
Even so dear -- even so , my beloved sister -- George -- Nay , nay -- why leave me at all ? 
George , I say -- Well -- what-say ? 
Suffer me to kiss thee -- my brother -- before we part ... He made no reply , but he gasped for breath and shook all over , and stretched out his arms with a giddy convulsive motion toward her . 
-- Before we part forever George -- dear George , putting her hand affectionately upon his shoulder and looking him steadily in the face . 
Dear George ... I am happy now ... very , very happy now , said the poor girl , shutting her eyes and letting two or three large tears fall upon his locked hands , which were held by her as if ... as if ... while her mouth was pressed to them with a dreadful earnestness , her power to let them drop was no more . 
And then she appeared to recollect herself , and her strength appeared to come back to her , and she rose up and set her lips to his forehead with a smile , that was remembered by the rough jailor to his dying day , so piteous and so death-like was it , and said to Burroughs , in her mild quiet way -- her mouth trembling and her large tears dropping at every word -- very , very happy now , and all ready for death . 
Thee will see her ... I shall not see her again ... How -- Not if thee should prevail with her to stay , George . 
cried Burroughs , turning away from the admirable creature who stood before him trying to bear up without his aid , though she shook from head to foot with uncontrollable nmetion . 
Thee 's very near and very dear to Mary Elizabeth Dyer ; and she -- she will be happy -- she can not be otherwise , alive or dead -- for all that know her , pity her and love her -- And so do all that know you -- No , no , George , love and pity are not for such as I -- such pity I mean , or such love as we need here -- needI say , whatever we may pretend , whatever the multitude may suppose , and however ill we may be fitted for inspiring it -- I -- I -- Her voice faltered , she grew very pale , and caught by the frame of the door -- -- There may be love , George , there may be pity , there may be some hope on earth for a beautiful witch ... with golden hair ... with large blue eyes ... and a sweet mouth ... but for a. ... for a. ... for a freckled witch ... with red hair and a hump on her back -- what hope is there , what hope on this side of the grave ? 
