BENEDICT ARNOLD . 
That child was - Benedict Arnold - . 
Now , mother of Arnold , look from Heaven and weep ! 
Forty-five years ago , you laid your child upon the sacramental altar of this church , and now he stands in yonder steeple , drinking in with a calm joy , the terrible cries of old men , and trembling women , and little children , hewn down in hideous murder , before his very eyes . 
At last , the cries are stilled in death ; the last flash of the burning town glares over the steeple , and there , attired in that scarlet uniform , his bronzed face stamped with the conflict of hideous passions -- there , smiling still amid the scenes of ruin and blood , stands - Benedict Arnold - . 
Orphans bless the name of Arnold ? 
While they sate there , hungry and cold , no fire on the hearth , not a crust of bread upon the table , their eyes fixed upon the tearful face of the good woman who gave them the shelter of a roof , a letter came , and in its folds five hundred dollars from Benedict Arnold . 
This at the very moment when he was steeling his soul to the guilt of Treason . 
This at the moment when his fortune had been scattered in banquets and pageants -- when assailed by clamorous creditors , he was ready to sell his soul for gold . 
From the last wreck of his fortune , all that had been left from the parasites who fed upon him , while they could , and then stung the hand that fed them , he took five hundred dollars and sent them to the children of his comrade , the patriot Warren . 
Then , at the awful hour when Arnold 's soul went up to judgment , did the prayer 's of Warren 's orphan children go up there , and like Angels , plead for him with - God - . 
The course of this strange history , will lead us to look upon two men : First , a brave and noble man , whose hand was firm as his heart was true , at once a Knight worthy of the brightest days of chivalry , and a Soldier beloved by his countrymen ; honored by the friendship of Washington -- that man , -- - Benedict Arnold - . 
Then , a bandit and an outcast , a man panoplied in hideous crimes , so dark , so infamous , that my tongue falters as it speaks his name -- - Benedict Arnold - . 
But now , that I have learned the fearful lesson of this life , let me frankly confess , that in the pages of history or fiction , there is no tragedy to compare with the plain history of Benedict Arnold . 
Through its every page , aye from the smiling autumnal landscape of Kenebec , from the barren rock of Quebec , or the green heights of Hudson , there glooms one horrid phantom , with a massive forehead and deep-set eyes , the Lucifer of the story -- Benedict Arnold . 
The man who can read his life , in all its details , without tears , has a heart harder than the roadside flint . 
One word in regard to the infancy of Arnold . 
One of these Deformed children lurks in the current life of Arnold . 
It is the grave story of the youth of Benedict , being passed away in various precocious atrocities . 
He strewed the road with pounded glass , in order that other little boys might cut their feet ; he fried frogs upon a bakeiron heated to an incredible intensity ; he geared flies in harness , decapitated grasshoppers , impaled `` Katy-dids . '' 
Why did he not pursue the subject , and state that at the age of two years , Benedict Arnold was deeply occupied in the pursuit of Latin , Sanscript , Hebrew , Moral Philosophy and the Philosopher 's stone ? 
In our research into Arnold 's life , we must bear one important fact in mind . 
- After he had betrayed his country , it was deemed not only justifiable to chronicle every blot and spec in his character , but highly praiseworthy to tumble the overflowing inkstand of libel upon every vestige of his name - . 
That he comes down to our time , with a single good deed adhering to his memory , has always seemed miraculous to me . 
`` Arnold , '' cried a patriotic citizen , uncouth in attire and speech : `` We are willing to fight the Britishers , but the city council wo n't let us have any guns ! '' 
Two figures stand in the shadows of the fortress gate ; in that stern determined visage , you see the first of the green mountain boys , stout - Ethan Allen - ; in that muscular figure , with the marked face and deep-set eye , you recognize the druggist of New Haven , - Benedict Arnold - . 
Or perchance in the name of Benedict Arnold and stout Ethan Allen ? 
-- That was the first deed of Benedict Arnold ; the initial letter to a long alphabet of glorious deeds , which was to end in the blackness of Treason . 
That was a great deed , the crossing of the Alps , by the young man , Napoleon , but I will now tell you a bolder deed , done by the Patriot , - Benedict Arnold - . 
In April , 1775 , that man Arnold stood behind a counter , mixing medicines , pasting labels on phials , and putting poisons in their places . 
In May , the Druggist Arnold , stood beside stout Ethan Allen , in the gate of conquered Ticonderoga . 
In September , the soldier Arnold was on his way to Quebec , through an untrodden desert of three hundred miles . 
That soldier was Benedict Arnold . 
Washington took him by the hand , and bade him go ! 
Washington did not fight for a Half-America , or a Piece-America , but for the Continent , the whole - Continent - . 
In one word , Washington and his compatriots were impressed with the belief that God had given the whole Continent to the Free . 
Therefore , pressing Arnold 's hand , he bade him God speed ! 
And he did go . 
That fleet , sailing on the 17th of September , 1775 , contains eleven hundred brave men , and their leader , Benedict Arnold . 
But in the day when Arnold dared its solitudes , there was a grandeur stamped on these rocks and cliffs -- a grandeur fresh from the hands of God . 
That canoe contains the oarsmen , and another form , wrapped in a rough cloak , with his head drooped on the breast , while the eye flashes with deep thoughts -- the form of the Napoleon of the wilderness , - Benedict Arnold - . 
Look ! 
He rises in the canoe -- he stands erect -- he flings the cloak from his form -- he lifts the rough fur cap from his brow . 
`` The Dark-Eagle comes to claim the wilderness , '' he speaks in the wild Indian tongue , which Arnold knows so well . 
In joy or sorrow , in battle or council , in honor or treason , Arnold never forgot the words of Natanis . 
He joins that little fleet ; he advances with Arnold into the Wilderness . 
Let us follow him there ! 
Now dashing down boiling rapids , now carrying their canoes through miles of forest , over hills of rock , now wading for long leagues , through water that freezes to their limbs as they go , the little army of Arnold advance . 
On , brave Arnold , on ! 
On , brave Arnold , on ! 
Under the shadow of this mountain the little army of Arnold encamped for three days . 
`` Arnold ! '' 
Benedict Arnold then takes from his breast , -- where wrapped in close folds he had carried it , through all his dreary march -- a blue banner gleaming with thirteen stars . 
On , brave Arnold , on ! 
The men of Arnold are here , encamped around yonder deserted Indian wigwam , whose rude timbers you may behold among the trees , near the brink of the waters . 
Now let us follow them again ; let us speak to brave Arnold , and bid him on ! 
O , these forests are dark and dense , these rocks are too terrible for us to climb , the cold chills our blood , this want of bread maddens our brain -- but still brave Arnold points toward Quebec , and bids them on ! 
It is day ; but the corn is gone -- we hunger , Arnold ! 
At last two long months of cold , starvation and death are past ; Arnold stands on Point Levy , and there , over the waters , sees rising into light the rock and spires of Quebec ! 
Napoleon gazing on the plains of Italy , Cortez on the Halls of Montezuma , never felt such joy as throbbed in Arnold 's bosom then ! 
At last he beheld -- - Quebec - ! 
That muscular form , with a hunting shirt thrown over his breast , that form standing there , with folded arms and head drooped low , while the eye glares out from beneath the fanning brow , that is the Patriot Hero of the Wilderness , Benedict Arnold . 
By his side stands a graceful form , with strength and beauty mingled in its outlines , clad in the uniform of a General , while that chivalrous countenance with its eye of summer blue , turns anxiously from face to face . 
He has come from Montreal , he has joined his little band with the Iron Men of Benedict Arnold . 
Arnold turns to his brothers in arms . 
`` Arnold ! '' 
-- Look there , and behold the two divisions , separating over the rocks : this , with Montgomery towards the St. Lawrence , that with Arnold and Morgan , towards the St. Charles . 
At the head of the column , with his drawn sword gleaming through the night , Benedict Arnold silently advances . 
Arnold can now count the cannon -- nay , the soldiers who are watching there . 
Arnold silently turns to his men . 
There wait the sentinel and his brother soldiers . 
Now the sentinel starts up from his reclining posture ; he hears that stealthy tread . 
He springs to his cannon -- look ! 
There disclosed by that cannon flash , long lines of bold riflemen start into view , and there -- Standing in front of the cannon , his tall form rising in the red glare , with a sword in one hand , the Banner of the Stars in the other -- there , with that wild look which he ever wore in battle , gleaming from his eye -- there stands the patriot , Benedict Arnold ! 
On either side there is a mangled corse -- but he stands firm . 
Before him yawns the cannon , but he springs upon those cannon -- he turns to his men -- he bids them on ! 
Now Arnold is in his glory ! 
Now he knows nothing , sees nothing but that grim barrier frowning yonder ! 
Those fires flashing from the houses -- that rattling hail of bullets pattering on the snow -- he sees , he feels them not ! 
His eye is fixed upon the second barrier . 
He glances around that mass of rifles , now glittering in the red light -- he floats the Banner of the Stars on high -- Hark to his shout ! 
Arnold stands victorious upon that barrier -- stands there , with blood upon his face , his uniform -- dripping from his sword -- stands there with the Banner of the Stars in his hand ! 
sainted mother of Arnold , who on that calm summer night , near forty years ago , laid your child upon the sacramental altar , now look from Heaven , and -- if saints pray for the children of earth -- then pray that your son may die here upon the bloody barrier of Quebec ! 
- Even as Arnold stood there , brandishing that starry banner , a soldier rushed up to his side , and with horror quivering on his lip , told that the gallant Montgomery had fallen . 
Leaving Arnold for a moment , on the first barrier of Quebec , let us trace the footsteps of his brother-hero . 
Arnold stood upon the first barrier , while his heart throbbed at the story of Montgomery 's fate . 
Then that expression of desperation , which few men could look upon without fear , came over Arnold 's face . 
Now look at him , as with his form swelling with rage he rushes on ! 
He springs from that barrier , he shouts to the iron men , he rings the name of Morgan on the air . 
`` Montgomery is there , '' he shouts , in a voice of thunder , `` there waiting for us ! '' 
At their head , his whole form convulsed , his lips writhing , his chest heaving unconscious of danger , as though the ghost of Montgomery was there before him , Benedict Arnold rushes on ! 
Even as he rushes , he falls . 
Even as you look upon him , in his battle rage with his right leg shattered , he falls . 
But does he give up the contest ? 
Then the names of Arnold and Montgomery , mingled in one breath , would have been joined forever , in one song of immortality . 
Arnold lived ; his ashes accursed by his countrymen , rest in an unknown grave . 
When the news of the gallant attack on Quebec -- gallant though unsuccessful -- reached Philadelphia , the Congress rewarded Benedict Arnold with the commission of a Brigadier General . 
The same mob , who , afterwards -- while Arnold was yet true to his country -- stoned him in the streets , and stoned the very arm that had fought for them , now cracked their throats in shouting his name . 
The very city , which afterwards was the scene of his Dishonorable Persecution , now flashed out from its illuminated casements , glory of the Hero of Quebec , - Benedict Arnold - . 
Ah , then the stout heart of Arnold quailed . 
Ah , then as the noble horse stooped his arching neck , as if to invite his master to mount him once again , and rush on to meet the foe , then Arnold who never turned his face away from foe , turned his face away from the large speaking eye of that horse , Lucifer . 
Arnold who never shed a tear for the dead men in battle , felt his eyes grow wet . 
He was about to shoot that friend , who had served him so well , and never betrayed him . 
And Arnold looked back , and beheld the dying head of his horse faintly upraised ; he beheld that large eye rolling in death . 
Let us pass over those brilliant exploits on Lake Champlain , which made the Continent ring with the name of Arnold . 
The records of history give the lie to this charge of mercenary business , for when Arnold seized the goods , he wrote to his commanding general and to Congress , that he was about to seize certain stores in Montreal for the public benefit . 
Let us go to the hall of Congress , and see this Spirit of Party , the Apeand-Viper God , which burdened the heart of Washington , more than all the terror of British bayonets or scaffolds , first manifested in the case of Arnold . 
-- In February , 1777 , Congress created five Major Generals , over the head of Benedict Arnold . 
All of these were his juniors ; one of them was from the militia . 
He wrote a manly and soothing letter to Arnold . 
He knew him to be a man of many good and some evil qualities , all marked and prominent . 
Therefore , Washington , the Father of his Country , wrote a letter , at once high-toned and conciliating , to the Patriot , Benedict Arnold . 
What was the course of Arnold ? 
He expostulated with the party in Congress , who wished to drive him mad . 
How did he expostulate ? 
In his own fiery way . 
Like many stout souls of that Iron time , he spoke a better language with his sword than with his pen . 
Let us look at the expostulation of Arnold . 
Yonder on those high rocks , near the town of Ridgefield , Arnold , with only 500 men , disputes the path of the Destroyer . 
Ths Continentals are driven back after much carnage , but Arnold is the last man to leave the rock . 
His horse is shot under him ; the British surround him , secure of their prey ; the dismounted General sits calmly on his dying steed , his arms folded , his eye sunk beneath the compressed brow . 
Arnold beholds him , beholds the wall of bayonets and faces that encircle him . 
The soldier extends his hand to grasp the prisoner , when Arnold , smiling calmly , draws his pistol and shoots the hireling through the heart . 
Follow him yonder , as he fights his way down the rock , through the breasts of his foes . 
Had Arnold always expostulated thus , his name would not now be the Hyperbole of scorn . 
When Congress received the news of this Expostulation , Arnold was raised to the rank of Major General . 
Yet still , they left the date of his commission , below the date of the commissions of the other five Major Generals . 
Ere we pass on to the Battle-Day of Saratoga , let me tell you an incident of strange interest , which took place in 1777 , during Arnold 's command near Fort Edward , on the Hudson River . 
Benedict Arnold was not in the battle at all , if we may believe in the bulletin of Gates , for his name is not even mentioned there . 
Yet I have a strange story to tell you , concerning the very battle , which supported as it is , by the solemn details of history , throws a strange light on the career of Benedict Arnold . 
He remembered the contest of the 19th , when Benedict Arnold , at the head of certain bold riflemen , carried the day , before all the glitter of British arms ; and now -- perchance -- a fear seized him , that this 7th of October might be a dark day , for Arnold was not there . 
They had quarrelled , Arnold and Gates , about some matter of military courtesy ; the former was now without a commission ; the latter commanded , alone , and now would have to win glory for himself with his own hands . 
Even those bold riflemen , who were in the wilderness with one Benedict Arnold , who stormed the walls of Quebec , with this Arnold and Montgomery , on that cold daybreak of December thirty-first , 1775 , even those men of iron fell back , terrified at the sight . 
That wound was received at the Storming of Quebec ; that Rider of the Black Horse was - Benedict Arnold - . 
- '' He found him at last , but it was in the gate of the fortress , on the body of the dead steed , bleeding from his wound , that he discovered the face of Benedict Arnold , the Victor of Behmus Heights . 
- General Gates , in his bulletin of the battle , did not mention the name of - - Benedict Arnold - ! 
Methinks , even now , I see the same Horatio flying from the bloody field of Camden -- where an army was annihilated -- his hair turning white as snow , as he pursues his terrible flight , without once resting for eighty miles -- methinks I hear him call for another Arnold , to WIN THIS BATTLE , AS - Saratoga was won - ! 
The conduct of Arnold in this battle became known , in spite of the dastardly opposition of his enemies , and -- says a distinguished and honest historian -- Congress relented at this late hour with an ill-grace , and sent him a commission , giving him the full rank which he claimed . 
He was now in truth , crowned as he stood , with the laurels of the Wilderness , Quebec and Saratoga , - Major General Arnold - , of the Continental Army . 
At the same time that George Washington received the account of Arnold 's daring at Saratoga , he also received from a Nobleman of France , three splendid sets of epaulettes and sword-knots , with the request to retain one for himself , and bestow the others on the two bravest men of his army . 
George Washington sent one set of epaulettes with a sword-knot to Benedict Arnold . 
When we next look for Arnold , we find him confined to his room , with a painful wound . 
For the entire winter the limb which had been first broken at Quebec , broken again at Saratoga , kept him a prisoner in the close confinement of his chamber . 
Then let us behold him entering New Haven , in triumph as the Hero of Saratoga . 
-- In this hour of Arnold 's triumph , when covered with renown , he comes back to his childhood 's home , may we not imagine his Mother looking from Heaven upon the glory of her child ? 
Yes , sainted Mother of Arnold , who long years ago , laid your babe upon the sacramental altar , baptized with the tears and prayers of a Mother 's agony , now look from heaven , and pray to God that he may die , with all his honorable wounds about him ! 
- Let - us look for Arnold again ! 
We will find him passing through the streets of old Philadelphia , in his glittering coach , with six splendid horses , and liveried outriders ; riding in state as the Governor of Philadelphia . 
In the dim and solemn aisle of Christ Church , at the sunset hour , behold a new and touching scene in the life of Benedict Arnold . 
And in the deep serenity of this evening hour -- while the same glow of sunshine gilds the white monuments in yonder graveyard , and reveals the faces of the wedding guests -- Benedict Arnold , in the prime of a renowned manhood , having seen thirty-eight years of life , in all its phases -- on the ocean , in battle , amid scenes of blood and death -- links his fate forever with that queenly girl , whose romance and passion in love of power , are written in two emphatic words -- - beautiful and eighteen ! 
Does the the wife of Benedict Arnold , looking through a dark and troubled future , behold the darkness dissipated by the sunshine of a Royal Court ? 
Does she -- with that young breast heaving with impatient ambition -- already behold Arnold the Patriot , transformed into Arnold the Courtier -- and Traitor ? 
We must look at Arnold now , as by this marriage and his important position -- the Military Commander of the greatest city on the Continent -- he is brought into contact with a proud and treacherous aristocracy -- as he feasts , as he drinks , as he revels with them . 
From that hour , date his ruin . 
This Tory aristocracy existed in full vigor , at the time Arnold assumed the command in Philadelphia . 
You will observe that his position was one of singular difficulty ; Washington himself would not have given general satisfaction , had he been in Arnold 's place . 
In after time , Jackson at New Orleans , excited the enmity of a bitter faction , because he held the same power , which Arnold once exercised -- that of a Military Governor , who commands in the same town with a Civil Magistracy . 
From their prominence , as well as from his marriage with Miss Shippen , Arnold was thrown into constant intimacy with these pliable politicians . 
Having grounded these facts well in your minds , you will be prepared to hear the grumbling of these newly-pledged patriots , when Arnold -- who yesterday was such a splendid fellow , sprinkling his gold in banquets and festivals -- obeyed a Resolution of the Continental Congress , and by proclamation , prohibited the sale of all goods , in the city , until it was ascertained whether any of the property belonged to the King of Great Britain or his subjects . 
Therefore , they opened their batteries of malignancy and calumniation against Arnold . 
Where he was guilty of one wrong act , they charged him with a thousand . 
Not seven months of Arnold 's command had transpired , before Congress and Washington were harrassed with letters asking for the trial and disgrace of Arnold . 
At last the matter was brought before Congress , and a Committee of that body , after a thorough examination , gave to Benedict Arnold , `` a vindication from any criminalty in the matters charged against him . '' 
Then the war was opened against Arnold anew ; then the Mob -- not the mechanics or men of toil -- but the Rabble who do no work , and yet have time to do all the riots in your large cities , were taught to hoot his name in scorn , to stone him in the streets , him , the Hero of Quebec . 
Yes , the out-casts of the city , were taught to cover him with filth , to wound with their missiles , the very limb that had been broken by a cannon ball , on the barrier of Quebec . 
It was done , the day fixed , but the accusers of Arnold were not ready for trial . 
All the while , these men were darkening the character of Arnold , all the while he stood before the world in the light of an untried CRIMINAL . 
At last the day came -- Arnold was tried -- and after a month consumed in the careful examination of witnesses and papers , was found guilty of two colossal enormities . 
Before we look at them , let us remember , that his accusers , on this occasion , were General Joseph Reed , and other members of the Supreme Executive council of Pennsylvania . 
For this Benedict Arnold had been pursued for at least thirteen months , with a malignity insatiable as the blood-hounds thirst . 
For this he had been held up to all the world as a criminal , for this pelted in the streets , and for this , the Hero of Quebec and Saratoga and Champlain , was to be publicly disgraced , REPRIMANDED by - George Washington - . 
At the same time that we admit that Arnold was betrayed into serious faults through his intimacy with the Tory aristocracy of Philadelphia , as well as from the inherent rashness of his character -- that very rashness forming one of the elements of his iron-souled bravery -- we must also admit , that among the most prominent of his accusers or persecutors , as you please , -- was `` - a man whose foot had once been lifted to take the step which Arnold afterwards took - . '' 
In the public papers I have repeated the statement , expressing my readiness to meet any person , in a frank and searching discussion of the question -- - Was Arnold 's chief accuser in heart a Traitor ? 
For example , when following the finger of history , I awarded to Arnold the glory of Saratoga , a very respectable but decidedly anonymous critic , brought all his artillery to bear upon a line , which had a reference to the - preparation of buckwheat cakes ! 
- So , when I expressed my readiness to examine the character of Arnold 's - chief accuser , a very prominent individual , who has made that accuser 's deeds the subject of laborious and filial panegyric , instead of meeting the question like a man , crept away into some dark corner of history , and called a sincere patriot by the portentous name of -- Infidel ! 
Having therefore , repeatedly stated that I was ready to give a careful and impartial investigation of the history of Arnold 's chief accuser , I will now enter upon the subject as a question comprised within the limits of legitimate history . 
Is it not reasonable to suppose , that the man who took upon himself the work of crushing Benedict Arnold , must have been a very good citizen , a very sincere patriot , and if not a great warrior , at least a very honest statesman ? 
Remember -- this trial and disgrace of Arnold , was the main cause of his treason -- and then dispute our right to search the character of his Accuser , if you can . 
`` Benedict Arnold ! '' 
If these answers , which the Ghost of Washington whispers from every page of history , be true , it follows that General John Cadwallader is an impartial witness in this case , and that Benedict Arnold was a sincere Patriot in the winter of 1776 . 
The adjutant general of the Continental army , to whom Washington had entrusted duties , involving , in their faithful performance , the well-being , perchance the existence of that army , remarked to General Cadwallader : `` - That he did not understand following the fortunes of a broken-down and shattered army - -- '' At the very moment that he said this , Benedict Arnold was out yonder , on the brink of the ice-bound river , assisting with his heart and hand , the movements of George Washington . 
The evidence which he produced in his published pamphlet , was a thousand times stronger than that which stripped the laurel from Arnold 's brow . 
This adjutant general , was General - Joseph Reed - , President of the Supreme Council of Pennsylvania , and the prominent accuser of - Benedict Arnold - . 
In his defence before the Court Martial , Arnold used these words : -- `` I can with boldness say to my persecutors in general , and to the chief of them in particular -- that in the hour of danger , when the affairs of America wore a gloomy aspect , when our illustrious general was retreating through America , with a handful of men , I did not propose to my associates basely to quit the General , and sacrifice the cause of my country to my personal safety , by going over to the enemy , and making my peace . '' 
That man Arnold , brave and proud as Lucifer , standing among the generals , beside whom he had fought and bled -- standing the centre of all eyes , in the place of the Criminal , with the eye of Washington fixed upon him in reproof -- with a throng of the meaner things of the Revolution , whom the British King might have bought , had he thought them worth the buying , grouped about him ; these petty men -- who had been warming themselves at comfortable fires , while the hands of Arnold were freezing on the ramparts of Quebec -- exulting at his disgrace , glorying in his shame , chuckling at his fall -- It was too much for Arnold . 
That moment the iron entered his soul , and festered there . 
From that moment he stood resolved in his work of treason . 
From that moment his country lost a soldier , history one of her brightest names , Washington his right-hand man , the Revolution its bravest Knight . 
In one word , from that moment John Andre lost his life , Benedict Arnold his honor ; Sir Henry Clinton gained a -- Traitor . 
-- It was indeed , too much for Arnold . 
Exhibit again those splendid qualities , which have placed you in the rank of our most distinguished generals - '' -- These were the words of Washington , worthy of his hero-heart , but from that moment , Arnold the Patriot was dead . 
At that instant from the terrible chaos of dark thoughts , wounded pride , lacerated honor , sprung into birth a hideous phantom , known by history as -- Arnold the Traitor . 
Had he but taken the advice of Washington , had he but looked derision upon his foes ! 
Raising himself in all his proud height , his eye blazing with that stern fire which lighted up his bronzed face on the ramparts of Quebec , his voice deep , hollow , ringing with the accents of scorn , he should have spoken to his enemies words like these : `` Look ! 
But he failed to do this . 
Unlike Jackson , who covered with the glory of New Orleans , rested patiently for thirty years , under the odium of an unjust fine , Arnold did not possess the power -- - to live down persecution - . 
In order to understand the scene of his reprimand in all its details , we must wander back through the shadows of seventy years . 
That of course , is Arnold . 
Arnold hears it , all -- every word of that solemn Reprimand . 
Does his cheek blench ? 
His eye change its fixed glance ? 
As those words fall from the lips of Washington , he merely suffers his head to droop slowly downward , until his eyes seem glaring upward , from compressrd brows . 
-- Meanwhile , looking between Washington and Arnold , do you see that figure , resting one arm upon the mantel-piece , while his face is turned away , and his eyes seem earnestly perusing the hot coals of the fire ? 
Behold that glance of Arnold , shooting its scorn from the woven eye-brows , and answer the question , every heart for itself . 
Arnold raises his head , surveys the whole company , first , Washington , with a look of deep respect , then the warrior faces of his brothers in arms , and last of all , that figure by the fireside . 
The flame light falls upon Arnold 's brow , and reveals him , very calm , somewhat pale , but utterly Resolved . 
So , taking for granted , that his enemies , who had hunted him for thirteen months , were present at the scene of his disgrace -- do I , in my own mind , delineate this picture of the Past . 
-- - Aged - persons , survivors of the Revolution , have told me singular and impressive stories of Arnold 's appearance and demeanor , while in Philadelphia , after this trial . 
And when the Mob stoned him , he never looked back , but patiently received their missiles in his face , and on his wounded limb . 
They tell me , that his features , swarthy and battle-worn , lost every trace of vivacity : they were rigidly fixed ; the lips compressed , the brow calm and unfrowning , wore an expression that no one could read , while his eyes had a wildness in their gleam , a fire in their glance , that told somewhat of the supernatural struggle at work within him , the Battle between Arnold 's Revenge and Arnold 's Pride . 
At this time , he brings to mind the Hebrew Giant , Sampson . 
Yes , Arnold imagined that his pursuers had put out the eyes of his honor , and shorn off the locks of his strength . 
He fancied himself brought forth before all America , to make sport for the tricksters and trimmers , in Camp and Congress -- the cowardly Philistines of that heroic time . 
His fall had been determined with himself , but he also , resolved that the ruins which were to crush him should neither be small nor insignificant . 
He was to fall , but he would drag down the temple with him . 
The Ruin should be great and everlasting . 
He would carve out for himself , a monument of eternal infamy , from the rock of his patriot greatness . 
Look yonder , my friends , into the retirement of Arnold 's home . 
It is almost a Palace , this beautiful place of - Landsdowne - , which once occupied by the Penn family , is now the retreat of Benedict Arnold . 
Here , amid these beautiful woods , he hides his sorrow . 
Here , along these gravelled walks , beneath the shade of overhanging trees , he paces all day long . 
Sometimes he gazes on the distant rocks of Laurel Hill . 
Sometimes he strays by the Schuylkill , and its clear waters mirror his face , lowering with fearful passions . 
At times , secluding himself in these silent chambers , he utters certain words in a low voice . 
-- Fancy the lion of the forest , captured , tied , his limbs , severed one by one , and you have the case of Benedict Arnold . 
It was when Arnold , recently appointed General in command of Philadelphia , received the French Minister , Monsieur Gerard . 
How often Arnold would stand in the shadow , gazing upon her as she went to and fro , and thinking that all this treasure of warm loveliness , this world of enticing beauty , was his own ! 
His wife , his newly-married Bride ! 
Then , the celebrated Arnold , surrounded by parasites ; now the disgraced Arnold , living alone in these shades , in company with his wife . 
Does she tell him how much nobler will be Arnold the Patriot , enshrined in the hearts of his countrymen , than Arnold the Courtier , dancing attendance in the ante-chamber of King George ? 
I make no charge against the wife of Arnold . 
Had she , instead of a King-worshipper , a lover of titles and courts and shows , been a Hero-woman , Arnold might have been saved . 
But he loved her . 
She clung to him in his disgrace . 
When the world frowned , her bosom received his burning brow , and pillowed his torn heart . 
She was with him in his loneliness . 
Was it strange , that her voice whispering to him at all hours , should sway his soul with a powerful , nay , an irresistable influence ? 
Imagine him neglected by Congress , disgraced in the camp , pelted in the streets , striding to his home , his heart beating against his breast , like a lion in its cage . 
There , in his Home , a beautiful girl welcomes him . 
She may have married him because he was so renowned , because he bore his honors with so proud a grace , but - now - , she is Home , Friend , World to him . 
Is it improbable that Arnold was fatally swayed by the words of this bewitching wife ? 
Again I repeat , had this wife , instead of a lover of courts and pomps and names , been a Hero-Woman , her heart true to the cause of freedom , her soul beating warmly for Washington and his cause , there would never have been written , on the adamantine column which towers from history -- dedicated to the memory of Infamous Men -- the name of -- - Benedict Arnold - . 
- The influence of his wife was one of the main causes of Arnold 's treason - . 
How did she influence his life ? 
It was in the Home , at the Fireside , that the wife of Arnold exercised her bewitching and fatal power ! 
-- Let us now , in one historical picture , condense three important points of Arnold 's career . 
-- - There - was a night , when an awful agony was passing in the breast of Arnold ; the struggle between Arnold 's revenge and Arnold 's pride . 
You have all seen that old house , in Second near Walnut street , which once the Home of William Penn , once the Palace of Benedict Arnold , is now used as a manufactory of Venus De Medicis , and sugar candies . 
And there , with his back to that fire , -- there , looking out upon the western sky , gleaming in deep starlight , stood Benedict Arnold . 
One hand was laid upon his breast , which throbbed in long deep gasps ; the other held two letters . 
That is the struggle between Arnold the Patriot , and Arnold the Traitor . 
For now the wife of Arnold is waiting for the determination of her husband 's fate ; now , the darkest shadow is passing over the Dial-plate of his destiny . 
While Arnold stands brooding there , while his wife sits trembling by the fire -- without , in the ante-chamber , three persons wait for him . 
- He - has come here to listen to the offer of Arnold , who wishes to enter the service of the French King . 
He has come from the wilds of the forest in the far northwest , to hearken to the answer of Arnold -LRB- the - Death Eagle - , as the Indians call him , -RRB- to their proposition , by which they agree to make him chief of their tribes . 
Now look : the door opens ; the three enter ; Arnold turns and beholds them . 
While the wife of Arnold sits trembling by the fire , he advances , and greets the Chevalier De Luzerne : `` Look ye , '' he mutters in quick tones , `` Your king can have my sword , but mark ! 
Stung to the quick with this cool insult , Arnold -- turning his eyes away from the British Spy -- salutes the Indian chief -- hark ! 
`` Yet are they afraid , that he loves the pale faces too well -- '' `` Try my love for the pale faces , '' -- mutters Arnold with a look and a sneer that makes even the red Indian start . 
was the hoarse response of Arnold , given with knit brows , and clenched hands . 
Then it was that Arnold -- who had embraced with a gleam of savage delight , the proposition , to become the chief of a murderous tribe of wild Indians -- felt his heart grow cold ! 
Arnold who in his mad revenge , was willing to sweep the towns of the whites with torch and knife , quailed at the idea of leaving that fair young wife . 
`` The Death Eagle can not be your chief ! '' 
he said as he turned from the Indian . 
gasped Arnold , placing the fatal letter in the hands of the British Spy . 
And then Arnold and his wife were alone . 
Then that wife -- gazing on the noble countenance of her husband , now livid as ashes , -- gazing in that dark eye , now wild and rolling in its glance , -- gazing on that white lip , that quivered like a dry leaf -- then that wife of Arnold trembled as she felt that the dread Rubicon was passed , that Arnold , the Patriot , - dead - , she sat in the presence of - Arnold , the Traitor - . 
A dark cavern , where no light shines , save the taper flashing from the eyes of hollow skull -- a lonely waste where rude granite rocks tossed in fantastic forms , deepen the midnight horror of the hour -- the crash of battle , where ten thousand living men in one moment , are crushed into clay -- such are the scenes which the Romancer chooses for the illustration of his Tragedy , the Historian for his storied page , every line full of breathing interest and life . 
That the awful tragedy of Arnold 's treason , should find its development at a -- Breakfast-table ! 
But - Treason - calmly sitting down to a quiet breakfast , the pleasant smile upon his face , hiding the canker of his heart , the coffee -- that fragrant intensifier of the brain -- smoking like sweet incense , as it imparts its magnetism from the lip to the soul -- Treason with a wife on one side , a baby laughing on his knee ! 
Yet among them all , that Development of Arnold 's Treason , which took place at a Breakfast-table , has ever seemed to us most terrible . 
Arnold is silent . 
Ever and again from the shadows of his deep drawn brows , he gazes upon her , his wife ! 
How much has he risked for them ! 
Shall he be the heir of Arnold the Earl ? 
Does she the child of wealth and luxury , lapped from her birth in soft attire , for a moment fancy that Arnold himself , was once a friendless babe , pressed to the agonized bosom of a poor and pious woman ? 
You know we are engaged to breakfast at General Arnold 's head-quarters ? '' 
Our visit to Hartford , was a remarkably pleasant one -- By the bye , General , '' -- turning abruptly to Arnold -- `` What think you of the rumor now afloat , in reference to West Point ? '' 
The porcelain cup , about to touch Arnold 's lip , was suddenly stopped in its progress . 
As the sunlight pours in uncertain gleams over his forehead , you can see a strange gloom overshadow his face . 
West Point ? '' 
he echoed in his deep voice . 
`` Yes -- '' hesitated the aid-de-camp -- `` On our way home , we heard something of an intended attack on West Point , by Sir Henry Clinton -- '' The smile that came over Arnold 's face , was remembered for many a day , by those who saw it . 
Never had the wife of Arnold appeared so beautiful . 
Arnold was silent all the while . 
said Arnold , quietly sipping his coffee , while his eye assumed a deeper light , and the muscles of his face suddenly contracted , -- `` From whom is that letter ? '' 
Arnold took the letter , broke the seal , and calmly read it . 
Calmly , although every word was fire , although the truth which it contained , was like a voice from the grave , denouncing eternal woe upon his head . 
You can see the wife centre her anxious gaze upon his face . 
Still he is calm . 
There is one deep respiration heaving his broad chest , beneath his General 's uniform , one dark shadow upon his face . 
-- as terrible as it is brief -- and then , arising with composed dignity , he announces , that sudden intelligence required his immediate attendance at West Point . 
`` Tell General Washington when he arrives , that I am unexpectedly called to West Point , but will return very soon . '' 
Arnold stands by the window , with the morning light upon his brow . 
She totters towards him . 
For a moment he gazes upon her in silence . 
She does not breathe a word , but trembling to him , as though unconscious of the action , lifts her babe before his eyes . 
`` Wife -- '' he exclaimed , in a voice that was torn from his very heart -- `` All is lost ! '' 
He flung his manly arms about her form -- one pressure of his bosom , one kiss upon her lips -- he seizes the babe , kisses it with wild frenzy , flings it upon the bed , and rushes from the room . 
Then the wife of Arnold spread forth her arms , as though she stood on the verge of an awful abyss , and with her eyes swimming in wild light , fell heavily to the floor . 
Arnold hurries down the stairs , passes through the drawing room , mounts the saddled horse at the door , and dashes toward the river . 
Ah , far over the waters , she gazes on that figure ; she can not distinguish the features of that distant face , but her heart tells her that it is -- - Arnold - ! 
-- In the history of ages , I know no picture so full of interest , as this -- The Wife of Arnold , gazing from the window of her home , upon the barge , which bears her Husband to the shelter of the British flag ! 
He was told that Arnold had been called suddenly to West Point . 
After a hurried breakfast , he resolved to cross the river , and meet his General at the fortress . 
After this interview it was his purpose to return to dinner . 
Washington gazed upon the sublime cliffs all around him , upon the smooth expanse of water , which rested like a mirror , in its mountain frame , and then gaily exclaimed : `` I am glad that General Arnold has preceded us . 
Doubtles , Arnold was preparing some pleasant surprise . 
Is Arnold not here ? '' 
`` He has not been here within two days , nor have I heard from him within that time ! '' 
-- The truth gentlemen , is plain -- General Arnold is a - Traitor - . 
He returned in the course of an hour , not with the Traitor , but with a letter headed `` His Majesty 's Ship , Vulture , Sept. 25 , 1780 , '' directed to Washington , and signed `` - Benedict Arnold - . '' 
The actors -- Washington and the wife of Arnold . 
she said , in a voice that brought tears to the eyes of Washington -- `` He has done no wrong ! 
Strange words these , but a glance convinced Washington , that the wife of Arnold stood before him , not calm and collected , but with the light of madness glaring from her blue eyes . 
She stood erect , regarding him with that blazing eye , that defiant look . 
What were the contents of the letter which Arnold received at the Breakfast table ? 
Was the Wife of Arnold a Partner in the work of Treason ? 
That man , the Hero of the Wilderness , whose glory had burst upon his country , with the bewildering splendor of the Aurora , which flushes the northern sky with dies of matchless beauty -- Benedict Arnold . 
General Arnold will not lightly overlook my detention , I assure you ! '' 
Artillery orders , showing how the garrison of West Point should be disposed of in case of an alarm ; an estimate of the force of the fortress ; an estimate of the number of men , requisite to man the works ; a return of the ordnance ; remarks on the strength and weakness of the various works , a report of a council of war lately at head quarters , concerning the campaign , which Washington had sent to Arnold -- such were the secrets of these papers , all in the undisguised hand writing of Benedict Arnold . 
-LSB- 11 -RSB- It now becomes our task to examine the contents of the letter which Arnold received at the Breakfast table . 
He could not imagine , that a General so renowned as Arnold was a Traitor . 
Next comes the question -- Was Arnold 's wife a Partner in the work of Treason ? 
Mr. H. states that Paulding wore a British uniform ; that Williams was despatched with a note to Arnold ; and that the prisoner was taken to Sing Sing , and from thence to Tappan , where - Washington arrived in a few minutes - . 
Not a word -LRB- on the trial of Andre , -RRB- was said by either Paulding or his comrades , in relation to the - departure of Williams with a note to Arnold - . 
The first scene took place when the British Army was in Philadelphia ; and while Benedict Arnold was confined to his room , in the city of New Haven , with the wounds of Saratoga . 
The other scene occurred more than two years afterwards , when Benedict Arnold was in command at West Point . 
That woman is now the wife of Benedict Arnold , who fled from West Point but a few brief days ago , in the British ship Vulture . 
- Yes , she has linked her fate with the destiny of Arnold . 
- In those letters , the first letters of Arnold to Clinton , signed Gustavus , and speaking Treason , were enclosed . 
While he hangs quivering on the gallows , yonder in New York , before a glittering mirror , stands Benedict Arnold , surveying his proud form , attired for the first time , in that hangman 's dress -- a scarlet uniform . 
Yonder -- even while the last tremor shakes his form -- yonder , alone , kneels George Washington , in prayer with his God . 
The contempt , which all honorable men feel for one who undertakes the lacquey work of Treason , and plays the part of a - Spy - , was lost in the unmeasured scorn which all men felt for Benedict Arnold . 
Her hand rests upon a letter , inscribed with the name of -- Benedict Arnold . 
It is the apartment of Benedict Arnold . 
He does not wield that sword , or wear that uniform any longer . 
He is a Traitor , and makes his home here in the city of New York , in this spacious mansion . 
Is this the wife of Arnold ? 
Is it his Ladye-love ? 
Say rather , as you behold the bosom torn by fiery passions , the eyes darting the magnetic rays of revenge , the dagger gleaming death from its keen blade , that this lovely woman waiting alone in his most secret chamber , is his - Executioner - ! 
`` Arnold ! 
There , slightly advanced from the shadows of the threshhold , stands -- the appalled form of Benedict Arnold ? 
She turns , and flinging the chapean aside , confronts the -- Wife of Arnold . 
Yes , the lady-love of John Andre , confronts the wife of his Evil Genius , Benedict Arnold . 
You will remember that this Wife , when a blooming virgin , once in the revelry of a Tournament , crowned John Andre with a chaplet of laurel and roses , that she corresponded with him some months after her marriage , that in her letters , the letters of Arnold to Sir Henry Clinton were enveloped , that -- perchance -- from her girlhood memories , -- perchance -- from deeper reasons -- he was dear to her heart ! 
Therefore , you will understand , that this meeting in the secret chamber of Arnold , was a strangely interesting scene . 
And as the Wife shrank back appalled , there commenced in that lonely chamber of Arnold , a scene of wild interest . 
Intercepted despatches of the enemy , which implicate one of our bravest general 's in the treason of Arnold ? '' 
Other Generals were preparing to follow the example of Arnold . 
On the 30th of September , Champe , was appointed one of Arnold 's recruiting sergeants . 
Behold him now , an efficient soldier of Arnold 's American Legion , dressed in a red uniform , and doing the work of a Briton . 
What would be Arnold 's course , in case Andre was put to death as a spy ? 
At the same hour , Benedict Arnold was writing in his most secret chamber , while his brother-traitor , John Champe , waited near his chair . 
The shaded lamp spread a circle over Arnold 's face and hand , while all around was twilight . 
Champe stood in the shadow behind the back of Arnold , his dark visage working with a peculiar expression . 
Arnold was just writing these words , when the door opened -- ` - If this warning shall be disregarded , and he suffer , I call Heaven and earth to witness , that your Excellency will be justly anwerable for the torrent of blood that may be spilt in consequence - . ' 
If Andre perishes -- '' As Arnold spoke , the door opened and a Soldier entered the room -- `` General , Major Andre was put to death at noon to-day ! '' 
Arnold gazed in the face of the Soldier , with a look of vacant astonishment . 
Arnold did not speak for five minutes . 
For that space of time , he sat in the chair , with his eyes fixed on the paper , but in truth he saw nothing . 
A hazy vapor swam before his sight , the sound of bells was in his ears . 
When he saw clearly again , the stupified soldier stood in the doorway , gazing upon the general in awe , for the agitation of that iron face was horrible to behold . 
Why , you weep like a child -- '' Arnold spoke in scorn , but took good care to keep his own eyes from the light . 
Arnold paced the room , now folding his arms , now clenching his hands , now uttering in a low voice , horrible blasphemies . 
`` Champe -- '' he said , abruptly pausing , as his distorted countenance glowed in the light -- `` They have known me in the Wilderness -- yes , at Quebec -- at Saratoga ; my sword has been tried , and it has crimsoned its blade in victory ! 
Now -- by -- '' he muttered a horrible oath , `` they shall know that sword once more , know it as the instrument of vengeance -- aye , they shall know it as the Avenger of John Andre ! '' 
Terrified , as though he beheld a fiend instead of a man , Champe slowly rose to his feet . 
Take care -- the Traitor Arnold will stand amid heaps of dead bodies , shouting as he plunges his sword into your soldiers ' hearts , This and This for John Andre ! 
Arnold stood erect , one hand laid upon his sword , while the other uplifted in the awful formality of an oath , attested the deep sincerity of his resolve . 
Here to welcome Benedict Arnold , in the garb of his victim ! 
`` O , do not -- do not speak of these memories -- '' gasped the wife of Arnold . 
-- Wife of Arnold , ask your heart -- nay , go to the river shore , and ask the sod of that lonely grave ! 
The Wife of Arnold sank on her knees . 
she cried , lifting her ashy face toward that beautiful woman , clad in the dress of John Andre -- `` Do not rend my heart with these words -- '' `` How died he , the young , the gifted , the brave ? '' 
-- You see that eye dart an almost demoniac fire -- `` Perchance in battle at the head of legions , his good steed beneath him , his true sword in hand ? 
Yes , charging into the thickest of the fight , he fell , his last smile glowing in the sunshine of victory ! 
Or , maybe he perished in some midnight massacre , perished in the act of an heroic defence ? 
There was no sword in his hand when he died . 
He died -- O , does it wring your heart -- with the rope about his neck , the vacant air beneath his feet . 
faltered the beautiful Wife of Arnold , her face now deathly pale -- `` Did I hurry him to this fatal death ? 
sneered the disguised maiden -- `` Mercy for the Wife of Benedict Arnold , who after her marriage suffered her letters to John Andre , to enclose the letters of the Traitor to Sir Henry Clinton ! 
Did you advise Benedict Arnold to make John Andre the tool of his Treason ? 
For the wife of Arnold knelt before her , her face upon her breast , her golden hair floating to the knees , which crouched upon the floor . 
I , a maiden whose good name no breath has ever dimmed , here in the chamber of Arnold ? 
`` But Washington can reach Arnold ! '' 
`` Yes , as Andre died , so Arnold shall die -- on the gibbet ! 
From this chamber , bound and dumb , Arnold shall be led this night . 
In the dark street trusty men are waiting for him , even now . 
Washington will not sleep to-night -- he expects a strange visitor , -- Benedict Arnold ! '' 
As though all life had fled from her veins , the Wife of Arnold glared in the face of the dark-haired woman . 
The Wife of Arnold made no reply . 
You see the Wife of Arnold start to her feet , her blue eye gleaming , while with her upraised arm she dashes back from her face those locks of golden hair . 
For she loved him , her Warrior-husband , that Wife of Arnold ; and now , with her entire frame quivering with a joy which was more intense , from the re-action of her despair , she beheld the schemes of her enemies crushed in a moment . 
But now , the Americans never speak of me , but to curse my name , in the same breath with Arnold ! '' 
Arnold escapes the hand of vengeance now . 
Now , flushed with triumph , he goes on to complete his career of blood . 
He will gather gold -- renown , aye , favor from the hands of his King . 
But in the hour of his proudest triumph , even when he stands beside the Throne , one form , invisible to all other eyes , will glide through the thronging courtiers , and wither him , with its pale face , its white neck polluted by the gibbet 's rope , its livid lip trembling with a muttered curse -- the Phantom of John Andre ! 
He will be known as the - Traitor Arnold - . 
`` Yes , when he dies -- while the Phantom of Andre glides to his side -- no hand of friend or foe shall be placed upon his brow , no one shall wait by his couch , no voice speak to him of Heaven or Hope , but in the utter desolation of a Blighted heart and a Doomed Name , shall depart the soul of the Traitor , Benedict Arnold ! '' 
Arnold , the Traitor was there also , heading his band of Assassins . 
He wished to save John Andre by taking Benedict Arnold prisoner . 
Once in New York , he enlisted in the Legion of Arnold . 
One object remained -- the capture of Arnold . 
That night Arnold went on ship-board , and with him the Deserter , who , taken to Virginia , left the British at the first opportunity , and after weeks of wandering and starvation , returned to his comrades . 
At last he approached the Colonel , and bending down , so that their faces nearly touched , uttered these words in a whisper : `` Give up Benedict Arnold for John Andre -- is that what you mean ? '' 
`` An officer from Washington waits in the room below , with authority from his General to make this proposition to you -- - Give me Arnold and I will give you Andre ! 
`` - Had George Washington offered me the Throne of the Western Continent , he could not have so tempted me , as he does by this proposition , to exchange Arnold for Andre ! 
For in that officer with the rich scarlet uniform , glittering with epaulettes of gold -- in that officer with the bold countenance , and forehead projecting over dark eyes that emitted a steady glare , he recognized -- - Benedict Arnold - . 
said Arnold , with a slight inclination of his head . 
`` Good evening , Colonel - Arnold ! 
It was not often that Arnold blushed , but now his throat , his cheeks , and brow were scarlet . 
For a moment he seemed stricken into stone , but at last he replied in a deep sonorous voice , that started Sir Henry Clinton from his chair : `` That leg sir , was twice broken ; the first time , - when I stormed Quebec - . 
Arnold sat down , and crossing his legs in a careless position , fixed his dark eyes full in Clinton 's face , as he spoke in a laughing tone : `` Do you know , General , I heard a very clever thing as I passed along the street . 
Two of - our - soldiers were conversing ; -- ` I tell you what it is , ' said one of the fellows to the other , ` Sir Henry Clinton could n't do a better thing , than send this Arnold -- -LRB- ha ! 
- this - Arnold , mark you ! -RRB- 
to General Washington , who will very likely hang him in place of Andre ! ' 
- Sir Henry saw the sneer on Arnold 's face , and knew at once that Andre 's fate was sealed ! 
Remember , that the wife of Benedict Arnold , on terms of intimate friendship with Andre , while the British held Philadelphia , corresponded with him long after her marriage , and then call to mind a single fact : her correspondence was the channel of communication between Arnold and the British General . 
Is it at all plausible , or probable , that she was ignorant of the contents of Arnold 's letters ? 
He was elevated to a Majority , dignified with the post of Adjutant General , in order that he might more effectually carry out the plan , originated between himself and Arnold . 
He was to enter West Point , not as an open foe , ready to combat with his enemies on the ramparts of the fortress , but as a Conspirator ; he was to conquer the stronghold , laid defenceless by the removal of the Continental force , by a juggle , and wreathe his brows with the parchments of a purchased victory . 
For this , his promised reward was the commission of a Brigadier General . 
With all his talent -- displayed as an Artist , a Poet , and a Soldier -- with all the genius which made him an admirable companion , with all the chivalry which won praise and tears from his enemies , with all the rich cluster of his gifts , and the dim memories that gather round his name , we must confess , that he was one of the originator 's of Arnold 's Treason , that he descended to a course of intrigue , beneath the honor of a warrior , that he was justly condemned and hung as a Spy . 
-- - John Andre and the Wife of Arnold , first planned the Treason , and then -- while his heart was lacerated by a sense of his wrongs -- lured him into the plot - . 
There is no point of Washington 's career more thoroughly worthy of our veneration , than his course in relation to Andre . 
Then the thought of Benedict Arnold , hurled from the Patriot and the Hero , into the Bandit and Traitor , as much by the persecutions of his enemies , as by his own faults , as much from the influence of Andre and his own wife , -LSB- 12 -RSB- as from inclination , has for me an interest that altogether surpasses the fate of the Spy . 
eaf251.n12 -LSB- 12 -RSB- It is stated on the authority of Aaron Burr , that the Wife of the Traitor , after she joined her husband in the British lines , expressed her contempt for the American cause , sanctioned the course of Arnold , and uttered other expressions of feeling , which showed that she was a co-partner in the work of Treason . 
We plant flowers over his grave , and yet he was a plotter from motives altogether mercenary -- We sing hymns about him , and yet with all his accomplishments , he was one of the main causes of Arnold 's ruin ; he it was who helped to drag the Patriot down into the Traitor . 
So , upon the homes of Virginia , in December , 1781 , burst the Traitor , Benedict Arnold . 
As his ship glided up James River , aided by wind and tide -- a leaden sky above , a dreary winter scene around , the other vessels following in the wake -- he stood on its deck , and drew his sword , repeating his oath , to avenge the death of John Andre ! 
-- It was only Arnold and his Men , laying an American home in ashes and blood . 
The first light of the winter 's day shone over the maddened visage of Arnold , cheering on his men to scenes of murder . 
The very men who fought under him , despised him . 
As the officers received his orders , they could not disguise the contempt of the curved lip and averted eye . 
Tortured by Remorse , hated , doubted , despised by the men who had purchased his sword , his honor , Arnold seemed at this time , to become the Foe of the whole human race . 
Arnold took the unanswered letter , sought the shadow of his tent , and did not speak for some hours . 
That calm derision cut him to the soul . 
There was brought before him , on a calm winter 's day , an American Captain who had been taken prisoner . 
Arnold surveyed the hardy soldier , clad in that glorious blue uniform , which he himself had worn with honor , and after a pause of silent thought , asked with a careless smile -- `` What will the Americans do with me , in case they take me prisoner ? '' 
Arnold 's countenance fell . 
`` Yes , you see Morgan and his men jined Arnold -- you 've heered of him ? '' 
`` Arnold -- yes , I think I have heard of that man ? '' 
Yes , stranger , I was with him , with Arnold on his v ` yge over land to Quebec ! 
`` You knew Arnold ? '' 
`` Wer n't I with him all the way , for two months ? 
Die n't I see him every hour of the day ? 
Arnold was always in the front ! '' 
`` He was a rash , high-tempered man ? '' 
Hot-tempered as old Sattin , but mind I tell ` ee , his heart was in the right place . 
Well , in midst of it all , Arnold calls me aside -- I see his face yet , with an eye like one of them fire-coals -- ses he , `` - Bingimin , you 're a little older than the rest of us ! 
`` Then you should a-seen him , at the Stormin ' o ' Quebec ! 
Why , even when his leg was broke , he cheered his men , and fought , sword in hand , until he fell in a puddle of his own blood ! 
I tell you , that Arnold was a born devil to fight ! '' 
`` I carried Arnold from the Rock at Quebec , and was with him when the Americans were retreating toward Lake Champlain . 
Can you tell me , what 's become of Benedict Arnold ? 
Is he alive ? '' 
`` He is , '' sullenly responded the traveller . 
`` So you knew Benedict Arnold ? '' 
Wait a minute , until I get my cap and rifle ; I 'll go with you to the edge of the swamp -- '' `` So you would like to know -- '' interrupted the deep voice of the Stranger -- `` So you would like to know what has become of Benedict Arnold ? '' 
It was not - Benedict Arnold - ! '' 
He died , believing still in the - Patriot Arnold - . 
Arnold was afterwards heard to say , that all the shames and scorns , which had been showered upon his head , never cut him so thoroughly to the soul , as the fervent admiration of that Soldier of the Wilderness , who in his lonely wanderings still cherished in his heart , the memory of the - Patriot Arnold - . 
It was in September 1781 , that Arnold descended like a Destroying Angel upon the homes of Connecticut . 
Tortured by a Remorse , that never for a moment took its vulture beak from his heart , fired by a hope to please the King who had bought him , he went with men and horses , swords and torches , to desolate the scenes of his childhood . 
This column marks the career of Arnold and his men , that the progress of his Brother in Murder . 
While Benedict Arnold stands in the steeple , surveying the work of assassins , yonder in Fort Griswold a brave young man , who finds all defence in vain , rushes toward the British officer and surrenders his sword . 
While he laid , cold and stiff , on the floor of the conquered fort , the flames from the burning town spread to the vessels in the river and to the light of blazing roofs and sails , Benedict Arnold looked his last upon his childhood 's home . 
Soon afterward he sailed from our shores , and came back no more . 
From this time , forth wherever he went , three whispered words followed him , singing through his ears into his heart -- - Arnold the Traitor - . 
When he stood beside his king in the House of Lords -- the weak old man , whispered in familiar tones to his gorgeously attired General -- a whisper crept through the thronged Senate , faces were turned , fingers extended , and as the whisper deepened into a murmur , one venerable Lord arose and stated that he loved his Sovereign , but could not speak to him , while by his side there stood -- - Arnold the Traitor - . 
He went to the theatre , parading his warrior form , amid the fairest flowers of British nobility and beauty , but no sooner was his visage seen , than the whole audience rose -- the Lord in his cushioned seat , the vagrant of London in the gallery -- they rose together , while from the pit to the dome echoed the cry -- `` - Arnold the Traitor - ? '' 
When he issued from his gorgeous mansion , the liveried servant , that ate his bread , and earned it too , by menial offices , whispered in contempt , to his fellow lacquey as he took his position behind his Master 's carriage -- - Benedict Arnold the Traitor - . 
and tell the man , that my threshhold can never be crossed by the murderer of my son -- by - Arnold the Traitor - . '' 
`` Time may spit upon me , but I never can pollute my sword by killing -- - Arnold the Traitor - ! '' 
The entire population of St. John 's -- accusing the owner of acting the part of incendiary , to his own property , in order to defraud the insurance companies -- assembled in that British town , in sight of his very widow , they hung an effigy , inscribed with these words -- `` - Arnold the Traitor - . '' 
He assisted him to escape , even aided him to secure his treasure in an empty cask , but as the prisoner , gliding down the side of the ship , pushed his raft toward the shore , that sentinel looked after him , and in broken English sneered -- `` - Arnold the Traitor - ! '' 
`` My name -- '' with a smile that had more of mockery than joy in its convulsive expression -- `` My name is - Benedict Arnold - . '' 
Tallyrand sank into a chair , gasping the words -- `` - Arnold the Traitor - . '' 
in his ears , and that the memory of his course of glory , gnawed like a canker at his heart , murmuring forever , ` true to your country , what might you have been , - O , Arnold the Traitor - ! ' 
I have dared to paint the agony of his death-hour , with a trembling hand and hushed breath , I have lifted the curtain from the death-bed of Benedict Arnold . 
So , after our dark and fearful journey over Arnold 's life , do we reach the last mountain top , and the day breaks over us . 
Not upon - him - , dawns the blessed light -- ah , no ! 
But upon us it glows , and we will now look back upon the long track of his deeds , the waste of his despair , spread far behind us . 
Yet ere we pass to those shades of Romance and Dreams , let us , at one bold sweep , survey the life of Arnold , his Glory , his Wrongs , his Crimes . 
At the age of sixteen , he ran away and joined the British army , was stationed at Ticonderoga , but unable to endure either the restraint of discipline , or the insults of power , he deserted and returned home . 
He married at New Haven , a lady named Mansfield , who bore him three sons , Benedict , Richard , and Henry . 
After the campaign of Canada was over , Arnold was accused of misconduct in seizing certain goods at Montreal . 
The testimony of the first historian in our country , proves , that in the removal of these goods , he was neither practising any secret manuvre , nor did he endeavor to retain them in his possession . 
It is well to bear these truths in mind : the charge of misconduct at Montreal , has been suffered almost to grow into history . 
The nation rung with the fame of his deeds . 
On the water , as on the land , his indomitable genius bore down all opposition . 
A week before the battle of Trenton , he joined Washington 's Camp , on the west side of the Delaware , remained with the Chieftain three days , and then hastened to Providence , in order to meet the invaders on the New England coast . 
Washington was astonished and surprised at this measure ; he wrote a letter to Arnold , stating `` that the promotion which was due to your seniority , was not overlooked for want of merit in you . '' 
While on a journey from Providence to Philadelphia , where he intended to demand an investigation of his conduct , he accomplished the brilliant affair of Danbury . 
Congress heard of this exploit , and without delay , Arnold was promoted to the rank of Major General . 
With an inconsistency not easily explained , the date of his commission was still left below the other five major generals . 
We next behold him in Philadelphia , boldly demanding an investigation of his character , at the hands of Congress . 
The Board of War , to whom all charges were referred , after examining all the papers , and conversing with the illustrious Carrol , -LRB- Commissioner at Montreal -RRB- declared that the character and conduct of General Arnold had been groundlessly and cruelly aspersed . 
Congress confirmed that report , complimented Arnold with the gift of an elegantly caparisoned horse , yet still neglected to restore him to his hardwon rank . 
While his accounts lingered in the hands of Congress , Arnold was appointed to command the army then convening in the vicinity of Philadelphia . 
This duty he discharged with his usual vigor . 
At last , chafed by the refusal of Congress to settle his accounts , and adjust his rank , he resigned his commission in these words : `` - I am ready to risk my life for my Country , but honor is a sacrifice that no man ought to make - -- '' At this crisis came the news of the fall of Ticonderoga , and the approach of a formidable Army under Burgoyne . 
On the same day that Congress received the resignation , they also received a letter from Washington , recommending that Arnold should be immediately sent to join the northern army . 
Arnold did not hesitate a moment . 
He took up his sword once more , only hoping that his claims would be heard , after he had fought the battles of his country . 
In the two Battles of Saratoga , the one fought on September the 19th , and the action of Oct. 7th , Arnold was at once the General and the Hero . 
From 12 o'clock , until night on the 19th , the battle was fought entirely by Arnold 's division , with the exception of a single regiment from another brigade . 
`` I will soon put an end to it , '' exclaimed Arnold , and set off in full gallop for the field . 
Gates was so far forgetful of justice , as to avoid mentioning the name of Arnold or his division in his despatches . 
A quarrel ensued , and Arnold resigned his command . 
On the 7th of Oct. , without a command , he rushed to the field and led the Americans to victory . 
If ever a man won his way to rank , by heaping victory on victory , that man was Benedict Arnold . 
In May , 1778 , Arnold joined the army at Valley Forge . 
But a short time elapsed ere he established his headquarters in Philadelphia , as Military Governor or Commander . 
This marriage encircled Arnold with a throng of Tory associates . 
So familiar was the intimacy of his wife with John Andre , that she corresponded with him , after the British left the city and returned to New York . 
A list of charges against him , with letters and papers was presented to Congress , by General Joseph Reed , President of Pennsylvania , and referred to a committee of inquiry . 
That Committee vindicated Arnold from any criminality in the matters charged against him . 
On the 18th of March , 1779 , Arnold resigned his commission . 
Arnold then formed the project of forming a settlement for the soldiers and officers who had served under him . 
The members of Congress from that state seconded his wishes , and wrote a joint letter to Governor Clinton , soliciting his aid : -- `` - To you Sir , or to our state , General Arnold can require no recommendation : a series of distinguished services , entitle him to respect and favor - -- '' The President of Congress , the virtuous Jay , enforced the same application in a private letter to Governor Clinton . 
He said -- -- `` - Generosity to Arnold will be Justice to the State - . '' 
Was Arnold without noble and virtuous friends ? 
Andre affixed to his letter the signature , - John Anderson - , and Arnold was known as - Gustavus - . 
Andre from a mere correspondent and friend of the wife , was at last selected as the great co-partner in the work of Treason . 
On the 25th , Arnold escaped to the Vulture . 
In May 1781 , Arnold returned to New York from Virginia , thus narrowly escaping the capitulation of Yorktown ; in September he laid New London in ashes ; and in December he sailed from the Continent for England . 
-- Thus plainly in short sentences and abrupt paragraphs , without the least attempt at eloquence or display , you have the prominent points of Arnold 's career before you . 
So much light , so much darkness , so much glory , so much dishonor , so much meanness , so much magnanimity , so much iron-hearted despair , so much womanly tenderness in the form of Benedict Arnold ! 
In the lonely hours of night , when absorbed in the books which tell of him , or searching earnestly the memorials which are left on the track of time , to record his career , I have felt the tears come to my eyes , and the blood beat more tumultuously at my heart . 
You may not be able to appreciate my feelings when I survey the career of Arnold , but you will in any event , do justice to the honesty of my purpose . 
Arnold has not one friend , on the wide earth of God , unless indeed his true-hearted sister survives . 
But Arnold -- where is there a friend -- to pay for one tear shed over his dishonored grave ? 
Guided by the same feeling with which I investigated the character of Washington , and found it more Pure and Beautiful than even the dull history tells it , I have taken up Arnold and looked at him in every light , and to his good and evil , rendered -- - Justice - . 
Those who expect to find in my pages , a minute record of his petty faults -- how he burnt grasshoppers when a little boy , or swindled grown men out of fine black horses , when a warrior -- will be wofully disappointed . 
It is a colonel 's commission in the Continental army , addressed to -- - Benedict Arnold - ! 
Arnold was a hero , a man of genius , although a Traitor . 
The man who would taint with one unhallowed word the sanctity of THE - Union - , stands arrayed in the leprosy of Arnold 's Treason , without one redeeming ray of his heroism , one spark of his genius . 
We all know that there were other Traitors beside Arnold in the Revolution , who escaped disgrace and the gallows , made money by chaffering with both parties , and died in the odour of a suspicious sanctity , leaving a dubious fame to their children . 
Suppose I was to go forth on some dark night , to the grave of one of those Traitors , take up his corse , strip from it the mark of patriotism , and show it by the light of history , a base and dishonored thing , for all its thick coating of gold ? 
There are other traitors than Benedict Arnold ! '' 
Your presence may remind congress of your past services to this country ; and if it is in my power to impress them , command my best exertions with freedom , as they will be rendered cheerfully by one , who entertains a lively sense of the importance of your works , and who , with much pleasure subscribes himself , If it were possible at this late day , to recover the skeletons of Judas Iscariot and Benedict Arnold , much as I despise these melancholy examples of human frailty , I would not insult even their bones , by placing the `` carcass '' of this Reviewer in their company . 
There you behold a letter directed to General the Marquis de La Fayette ; another bears the name of General Anthony Wayne ; a third General Benedict Arnold ; and that large pacquet , with the massive seal , is inscribed with the words -- To His Excellency , John Hancock , President of the Continental Congress . 
He had been with Arnold at Quebec , with Washington at Brandywine , this hardy Sergeant Caleb -- but to go to the Tory rendezvous in disguise , was to act the part of a - Spy - , and the robber-captain of the Tories would put him to death , on the first rope and nearest tree , as a -- - Spy - ! 
BENEDICT ARNOLD . 
- The March through the Wilderness - 157 Napoleon and Arnold 158 - Washington - and Arnold , -- interview `` Continental . '' 
158 The Kennebec -- a lone Indian 159 The Murder of a Priest at the Altar , by White Savages 160 Arnold claims the Wilderness -- the Prophecy 161 - The River of the Dead - 162 The Banner of the Stars 162 The Lake 162 The fearful dangers of Arnold and his men 163 He sees - Quebec - ! 
- The attack on Quebec - 163 Montgomery and Arnold pledge their Faith on the heighths of Abraham 164 Arnold , with his Men , advances to the first barrier 165 Arnold in his glory 166 Aaron Burr bends over the Corse of Montgomery 167 Arnold in the madness of the battle 168 V. - The War-Horse Lucifer - 169 Retreat of the American army -- incident in the career of Arnold 169 VI . 
- The Ape -- and -- Viper God - 170 The renown of Arnold 170 The Spirit of Party 170 The injustice of Congress to Arnold 171 His adventure near Danbury 172 VII . 
- The Black Horse , and his rider ; or `` Who was the Hero of Saratoga - ? '' 
176 Horatio Gates before his tent 176 - The - Black Horse and his Rider 177 `` Ho ! 
180 The crisis of the conflict 180 In the moment of peril , the Champion of the day appears 181 The Battle is won -- fate of the Black Horse and his rider -- meanness of Gates 182 Arnold the Conqueror 183 IX . 
- Arnold the Military Commander of Philadelphia - 183 The aisle of Christ Church 183 - The Hero of Quebec and his Bride 184 The Tory Aristocracy of Philadelphia 184 Its cowardice , meanness and pretension 185 The difficulty of Arnold 's position 180 His long expected trial and the offences of which he was found guilty 187 The nature of these offences 188 A court of History , for the trial of Arnold 's chief accuser 189 X. - Who was this accuser - ? 
190 General Cadwallader and the Adjutant General of the army -- their conversation in 1776 190 Serious charges against the Adjutant General 194 The summing up of the evidence 192 Arnold 's memorable words 192 XI . 
- The Disgrace of Arnold - 192 The day of the reprimand 192 He can not ` live down persecution ' 193 The scene of the Reprimand 194 The portrait of the Accuser 195 XII . 
- Arnold at Landsdowne - 196 He meditates the Future 196 His Palace -- his Wife -- his Infamy 197 The silent influence of his Wife 198 XIII . 
- Arnold the Traitor - 199 The struggle 199 Three visitors 200 The Dispatch to Sir Henry Clinton 201 Arnold alone with his wife 201 XIV . 
- The Fall of - Lucifer 201 Tragedy and Common-Place 201 The Breakfast table of the Traitor 202 The wife and the babe of the Traitor 203 The expected Guest , does not come 204 The bursting of the thunder-bolt 205 Arnold under the British flag 206 - Washington - learns the Treason 207 The Mother and - Washington - 208 The Ship Vulture and its Passenger 209 XV . 
- The Tulip-Poplar , or the Poor Men Heroes of the Revolution - 210 Seven men watch for robbers 210 The day-dream of the wayfarer 211 Three men of the seven , arrest the traveller 212 The Pass of Arnold 213 The development 214 The bribe 215 A prisoner , a spy and the Vulture in sight ! 
216 The Poor Men Heroes of the Revolution 217 The blunder by which Arnold escaped 218 XVI . 
- John Champe - 224 The luxurious chamber 224 A mysterious visitor 225 The Ghost of John Andre 226 The wife of Arnold and the Ghost 227 - Washington - in his Tent 228 A Knight of the Revolution 229 Only one way to save Andre ? 
238 The Crisis 239 Lee 's laughter 240 A beautiful woman 241 - A shadow of death , in the festival 242 Arnold 's Oath 243 Champe alone with Arnold 244 - Washington 's - letter 245 The memory of the gallant Knight 246 How he died 246 Vengeance upon the Double Traitor 248 The Phantom of Arnold 's life 249 The Man who has not one friend in the world 250 Lee 's encampment again -- scene changed 250 `` - Champe - a brave and honest man ! '' 
- The Temptation of Sir Henry Clinton - 253 A calm evening and a cloudless soul 253 Sir Henry Clinton shudders at the picture 254 Exchange the Traitor for the Spy 255 Sir Henry 's terrible temptation 256 Arnold 's sneer 257 XIX . 
- Andre the Spy - 263 Andre a partner in Arnold 's Conspiracy 263 - Th-e Wife of Arnold , also a conspirator 263 - Washington - condemned him justly 263 Tears for the fate of Andre 264 XXI . 
- Arnold in Virginia - 276 Arnold the Destroyer 276 Despised by all -- the men who bought him , and the men whom he would have sold 277 A strange legend 277 The Benighted traveller and the old hunter 278 An old soldier 's opinion of Arnold 279 The emotion of the stranger 280 The old hunter sees a vision of the Evil Spirit 281 XXIV . 
- The three words which followed Benedict Arnold to his Grave - 282 The burning of New London and Fort Griswold 282 The death of Leydard 283 British magnanimity 283 The guilt and weakness of King George 283 The three words 284 Talleyrand and Arnold 285 The Remorse of the Traitor 286 The obscurity of his death 286 XXV . 
- Arnold ; his glory , his wrongs , his crimes - 287 His early life 287 The prime of his manhood 288 - Washington 's - opinion of him 289 His marriage -- his enemies -- his postponed trial 290 Review of his offences , difficulties and treason 291 Motives of the Author in this dark history 292 - The three lines , which comprise the whole burden of this Tragedy 292 XXVI . 
I. - The Glory of the Land of Penn - 299 Pennsylvania neglected by history 299 Her monuments 300 II . 
