Pompey happened to be acquainted with Silvy , the negress who had the care of my little beauty , to whom he bowed , and addressed as Miss Anneke -LRB- Anna Cornelia , abbreviated -RRB- . 
Anneke I thought a very pretty name too , and some little advances were made towards an acquaintance by means of an offering of some fruit that I had gathered by the way-side . 
Things were making a con siderable progress , and I had asked several questions , such as whether ` Miss Anneke had ever seen a patroon , ' which ` was the greatest personage , a patroon or a governor , ' whether ` a nobleman who had lately been in the colony , as a military officer , or the patroon , would be likely to have the finest coach , ' when a butcher 's boy , who was passing , rudely knocked an apple out of Anneke 's hand , and caused her to shed a tear . 
In spite of Anneke 's entreaties I went , and Pompey and Cæsar followed . 
When I returned to the road , after this breathing , Anneke -LSB- 6 -RSB- had disappeared , and I was so shy and silly as not to ask her family name from Cæsar the Great , or Pompey the Little . 
I had heard of Herman , or , as it is pronounced , Harman Mordaunt . 
As soon as they are over , Herman Mordaunt and Anneke will be out here to enjoy their lilacs and roses . '' 
there is an Anneke , as well as the old gentleman . 
Pray , how old may Miss Anneke be , Master Dirck ? '' 
Dirck was too much of a man , however , to turn away , or to try to hide blushes so ingenuous ; but he answered stoutly -- `` My cousin , Anneke Mordaunt , is just turned of seventeen ; and , I 'll tell you what , Corny -- '' `` Well -- I am listening , with both ears , to hear your what -- Out with it , man ; both ears are open . '' 
`` Why , Anneke -LRB- On-na - kay -RRB- , is one of the very prettiest girls in the colony ! 
-- What is more , she is as sweet and goot '' -- Dirck grew Dutch , as he grew animated -- `` as she is pretty . '' 
`` Why , Anneke is one of the prettiest girls in the colony ! '' 
-- Her mother 's father and my mother 's mother were brother and sister . '' 
`` In that case , I shall hope to have the honour of being introduced , one of these days , to Miss Anneke Mordaunt , who is just turned of seventeen , and is one of the prettiest girls in the colony , and is as good as she is pretty . '' 
`` I wish you to see her , Corny , and that before we go home , '' Dirck replied , all his philosophy , or phlegm , whichever the philosophy of other people may term it , returning ; `` come ; let us go back to the inn ; our dinner will be getting cold . '' 
`` Pray , Mrs. Light , '' I asked , when there was an opening , which was not until the good woman had exhausted her breath in honour of the Littlepages , `` do you happen to know anything of a family , hereabouts , of the name of Mordaunt ? '' 
My word for it , Miss Anneke will turn out a great robber , after her own fashion , you know , sir . '' 
`` And whose hearts is she likely to run away with , pray ? 
-- she is too young to have done much yet ; but wait a twelvemonth , and I 'll answer the question . '' 
During the ride to town , no more was said of Lilacsbush , Herman Mordaunt , or his daughter Anneke . 
`` Dere , Miss Anneke ! '' 
`` Anneke , '' I repeated , mentally , and `` gentleman that will cause pleasure by his appearance . '' 
Sure enough , Dirck it proved to be , who advanced rapidly to the group , making a general salute , and finishing by shaking my beautiful young stranger 's hands , and addressing her by the name of `` cousin Anneke . '' 
This , then , was Annie Mordaunt , as the young lady was commonly called in the English circles , the only child and heiress of Herman Mordaunt , of Crown Street and of Lilacsbush . 
`` Cousin Anneke , '' said Dirck , who never used circumlocution , when direct means were at all available , `` this is Corny Littlepage , of whom you have heard me speak so often , and for whom I ask one of your best curtsies and sweetest smiles . '' 
Miss Mordaunt was kind enough to comply literally , both curtsying and smiling precisely as she had been desired to do , though I could see she was also slightly disposed to laugh . 
I was still making my bow , and mumbling some unintelligible compliment , when Katrinke gave a little exclamation , and using the freedom of an old and confidential servant , she eagerly pulled the sleeve of her young mistress , and hurriedly whispered something in her ear . 
Anneke coloured , turned quickly towards me , bent her eyes more boldly and steadily on my face -- and then it was that I fancied the sweetest smile which mortal had ever received , or that with which I had just before been received , was much surpassed . 
`` Mr. Littlepage , I believe , is not a total stranger , cousin Dirck , '' she said . 
`` Had there been twenty boys , Miss Mordaunt , an insult to youwould have been resented by any man of ordinary spirit . '' 
I do not know that any youth , who was suddenly put to his wits to be polite , or sentimental , or feeling , could have done a great deal better than that!So Anneke thought too , I fancy , for her colour increased , rendering her ravishingly lovely , and she looked surprisingly pleased . 
`` Yes , '' put in Dirck with energy , -- `` let twenty , or a hundred try it if they please , Anneke , men or boys , and they 'll find those that will protect you . '' 
`` I did not then know it was Miss Mordaunt I had been so fortunate as to serve ; but here is Mr. Newcome at your elbow , Follock , and dying to be introduced , as he sees I have been . '' 
Anneke turned to smile and curtsey again to Jason , who made his bow in a very school-master sort of a fashion , while I could see that the circumstance I had not boasted of my exploit gave it new importance in the sweet creature 's eyes . 
As for Jason , he had no sooner got along with the introduction , -- the first , I fancy , he had ever gone regularly through , -- than , profiting by some questions Miss Mordaunt was asking Dirck about his mother and the rest of the family , he came round to me , drew me aside by a jerk of the sleeve , and gave me to understand he had something for my private ear . 
`` Well , then , Miss Mordaunt must be right , and I have forgotten the affair . 
`` Well -- well -- I will tell you all about it another time ; you perceive , now , that Miss Mordaunt wishes to move on , and does not like to quit us too abruptly . 
Anneke Mordaunt , whose grandmother was of a Dutch family , it will be remembered , had with her there , in the Pinkster field , a negress of just her own age , who was called Ma ri ; not Mary , or Maria ; but the last , as it would be pronounced without the final a . 
I could have accompanied Anneke , and her party , all day , through that scene of unsophisticated mirth , and felt no want of interest . 
Her presence immediately produced an impression ; even the native Africans moderating their manner , and lowering their yells , as it might be , the better to suit her more refined tastes . 
Such was the state of things , when Ma & racute ; icame rushing up to her young mistress , with distended eyes and uplifted hands , exclaiming , on a key that necessarily made us all sharers in the communication -- `` Oh ! 
Miss Anneke ! 
-- What you t ` ink , Miss Anneke ! 
Could you ever s ` pose sich a t ` ing , Miss Anneke ! '' 
`` Who couldt ` ink it , Miss Anneke ! 
As we drew near the door , I saw that the cheeks of several of the pretty young creatures who belonged to the party of Anneke , began to turn pale ; a sign of weakness that , singular as it may appear , very sensibly extended itself to most of their attendant negresses . 
Some time was thrown away in endeavouring to persuade two or three of her older companions to go in with her ; but , finding it useless , with a faint smile , Miss Mordaunt calmly said -- `` Well , gentlemen , Mari and myself must compose the female portion of the party . 
I stood on one side of Anneke , Jason on the other , while Mari was close in the rear . 
I saw Anneke colour , and her eye turn hastily towards Dirck . 
Before I had time to say anything , or to do anything in fact , she answered steadily -- `` Give yourself no trouble , Mr. Newcome ; Mr. Littlepage will do me the favour to obtain tickets for me . '' 
I simply placed the tickets in Anneke 's hand , who received them with an expression of thanks , and we all passed ; Dirck inquiring of his cousin , as he came up , if he should get her tickets . 
Anneke said nothing on the subject of her tickets until we had left the booth , when she approached me , and with that grace and simplicity which a well-bred woman knows how to use on such an occasion , and quietly observed -- `` I am under obligations to you , Mr. Littlepage , for having paid for my tickets ; -- they cost three shillings , I believe . '' 
I bowed , and had the pleasure of almost touching Miss Mordaunt 's beautiful little hand , as she gave me the money . 
Do you know you have made Miss Anneke pay for a treat ? '' 
-- could I presume to think Miss Mordaunt would suffer me to pay money for her , or for her servant ? '' 
Did you not remark how smartly I offered to pay for this Miss , and how well she took it , until you stepped forward and cut me out ; -- I bore it , for it saved me three ninepences . '' 
`` I observed how Miss Mordaunt shrunk from the familiarity of being called Miss , and how unwilling she was to let you buy the tickets ; and that I suspect was solely because she saw you had some notion of what you call a treat . '' 
I had been indignant at Jason 's familiarity when he called Anneke -- the pretty Anneke ! 
Conceiving it useless to remonstrate with meany further , Jason proceeded forthwith to Anneke , with whom he begged permission to say a word in private . 
exclaimed Anneke , who had shrunk back a little at the ` Miss , ' and who now saw Jason hold out the silver , with a surprise she took no pains to conceal . 
Anneke now smiled , and glancing at me at the same instant , a bright blush suffused her face , though the meaning of my eye , as I could easily see , strongly tempted her to laugh . 
`` It is very well as it is , Mr. Newcome , though I feel much indebted to your liberal intentions , '' she said , turning to rejoin her friends ; `` it is customary in New York for ladies to pay , themselves , for everything of this nature . 
As a matter of course , Anneke was put in front , most of the men who were in the booth giving way to her with respectful attention . 
Anneke , from the first , manifested no fear ; but the circle pressing on her from without , she got so near the cage that the beast thrust a paw through , and actually caught hold of the shawl , drawing the alarmed girl quite up to the bars . 
I was at Anneke 's side , and with a presence of mind that now surprises me , I succeeded in throwing the shawl from the precious creature 's shoulders , and of fairly lifting her from the ground and setting her down again at a safe distance from the beast . 
All this passed so soon that half the persons present were unconscious of what had occurred until it was all over ; and what astonishes me most is , that I do not retain the least recollection of the pleasure I ought to have felt while my arm encircled Anneke Mordaunt 's slender waist , and while she was altogether supported by me . 
Anneke was rescued before she had time fully to comprehend the danger she had been in . 
Even Dirck could not advance to her aid , though he saw and comprehended the imminent risk ran by the being he loved best in the world ; but Dirck was always so slow ! 
He rushed forward to assist Anneke , and remained to draw away the shawl , as soon as the keeper had succeeded in making the lion relinquish his hold . 
Anneke was certainly well frightened by this adventure with the lion , as was apparent by her changing colour , and a few tears that succeeded . 
Still , a glass of water , and a minute or two , seated in a chair , were sufficient to restore her self-composure , and she remained with us , for half an hour , examining and admiring her terrible assailant . 
I question if any of us were aware of the full extent of the danger she ran , until we began to reflect on it coolly , after time and leisure were afforded . 
After the little affair of the tickets , I walked on with Anneke , who declared her intention of quitting the field , her escape beginning to affect her spirits , and she was afraid that some particularly kind friend might carry an exaggerated account of what had happened to her father . 
Dirck offered to accompany her home , for Mr. Mordaunt kept no carriage ; or , at least , nothing that was habitually used as a town equipage . 
We had all gone as far as the verge of the Common with Anneke , when the sweet girl stopped , looked at me earnestly , and , while her colour changed and tears rose to her eyes , she said , -- `` Mr. Littlepage , I am just getting to be fully conscious of what I owe to you . 
Believe me , notwithstanding , that I never can forget this morning , and I beg of you , if you have a sister , to carry to her the proffered friendship of Anneke Mordaunt , and tell her that her own prayers in behalf of her brother will not be more sincere than mine . '' 
Before I could recollect myself , so as to make a suitable answer , Anneke had curtsied and walked away , with her handkerchief to her eyes . 
AsDirck accompanied Miss Mordaunt to her father 's house in Crown Street , -LSB- 9 -RSB- I took an occasion to give Jason the slip , being in no humour to listen to his lectures on the proprieties of life , and left the Pinkster field as fast as I could . 
Marriages between young English officers and our pretty , delicate York belles , were of frequent occurrence , and I had felt a twinge or two , on the subject of Anneke , that morning , as I passed the youths of the 55th , 60th , or Loyal Americans , 17th , and other regiments that were then in the province . 
Away I went , with a beating heart , to receive a visit from Anneke 's father . 
I can scarcely give a reason why this gentleman was usually called , when he was spoken of , and sometimes when he was spoken to , HermanMordaunt ; unless , indeed , it were , that being in part of Dutch extraction , the name which denoted the circumstance -LRB- Hermanus -- pronounced by the Hollanders , Her maanus , -RRB- was used by a portion of the population in token of the fact , and adopted by others in pure compliance . 
I should have thought it an honour , at my time of life , to receive a visit from Herman Mordaunt ; but my heart fairly beat , as I have said , as I went hastily up stairs , to meet Anneke 's father . 
I doubt if even a lion would have the heart to hurt Miss Mordaunt , were she in his power . '' 
`` And Anneke is a sweet young thing , '' added my aunt ; `` and , since Corny was to assist any young lady , I am heartily glad it was Anneke . 
She is an excellent creature , and her mother was one of my most intimate friends , as she was of my sister Littlepage , too . 
You must go and inquire after her health , this evening , Corny . 
Luckily , Dirck came in , in the evening ; and my aunt repeating her opinion before my friend , he at once deciared it was altogether proper , and that he thought Anneke would have a right to expect it . 
That Dirck was fonder of Anneke Mordaunt than of any other human being , I could easily see ; and I confess that the discovery already began to cause uneasiness . 
There sat Anneke , his daughter , in the loveliness of her maiden charms , a little more dressed than usual , perhaps , for she had three or four young and lovely girls with her , and five or six young men ; among whom were no less than three scarlet coats . 
Anneke came forward , one or two steps , to meet me ; and I could see , she was almost as much confused , as I was myself . 
She blushed , as she thanked me for the service I had rendered , and expressed her satisfaction that her father had been fortunate enough to find me at home , and had had an opportunity of saying a little of what he felt , on the occasion . 
She then invited me to be seated , naming me to the company , and telling me who two or three of the young ladies were . 
`` You call it a ` little accident , ' Mr. Bulstrode , '' returned Anneke , with a reproachful shake of her pretty head , `` but , I can assure you , it is not a trifle , to a young lady , to find herself in the paws of a lion . '' 
At this , there was a certain amount of mirth , and various protestations of an unwillingness to enlist ; in which , I was glad to see , that neither Anneke , nor her most intimate friend , Mary Wallace , saw fit to join . 
This last was a handsome fellow , too ; nor had I been an hour in his company , before I saw , plainly enough , that he was a strong admirer of Anneke Mordaunt . 
These circumstances , I could not but feel , gave him a vast advantage over me ; and I heartily wished that we stood anywhere but in the presence of Anneke Mordaunt , as he thus saw fit to single me out for invidious comparison , by a sort of tête-à tête , or aside . 
`` You are a fortunate man , Mr. Littlepage , '' he commenced , `` in having had it in your power to do so important a service to Miss Mordaunt . 
Miss Anneke is in possession of half our hearts , and we should be still more heartless to overlook such a service . '' 
Now all this was said with an air of great apparent frankness and sincerity , which I fancied was only the more visible from the circumstance that Anneke was so seated as unavoidably to hear every word of what was said . 
I observed that she even turned her eyes on me as I made my answer , though I did not dare so far to observe her in turn as to note their expression . 
Should you alter your views , however , my dear Littlepage , do not forget me , but remember you can count on one who has some little influence , and who will ever be ready to exert it in the behalf of one who has proved so serviceable to Miss Mordaunt . 
`` I have never read Juvenal , Mr. Bulstrode , and never wish to , if such be the tendency of what he teaches -- '' `` Juvenal was a satirist , you know , '' interrupted Bulstrode a little hastily , for by this time he too had ascertained that Anneke was listening , and he betrayed some eagerness to get rid of so flagitious a sentiment ; `` and satirists speak of things as they are , rather than as they ought to be . 
`` I can assure you , Mr. Bulstrode , '' Anneke observed calmly , `` that I have heard rumours to this effect for quite a fortnight . 
I confess the charge ; we have hired the new theatre , and do intend to solicit the honour of the ladies coming to hear me murder Cato , and Scrub ; a pretty climax of characters , you will admit , Miss Mordaunt ? '' 
All the young ladies , but Anneke and her friend Mary Wallace , laughed , two or three repeating the words ` St. Pinkster , ' as if they contained something much cleverer than it was usual to hear . 
A general burst of exclamations , expressions of pleasure , and of questions and answers followed , in which two or three voices were heard at the same moment , during which time Anneke turned to me , who was standing near her , at the spot occupied by Bulstrode a minute before , and seemed anxious to say something . 
she asked , changing colour at the freedom of her own question . 
I thought Anneke Mordaunt seemed pleased with this answer . 
After a short pause , she resumed the dialogue . 
`` As it is taught in our own colleges , Miss Mordaunt . '' 
I thought that something like displeasure settled on the fair , polished , brow of Miss Mordaunt , who , I could soon see , possessed much character and high principles for one of her tender years . 
She said nothing , however , though she exchanged a very meaning glance with her friend Mary Wallace . 
Her lips were moved , and I fancied I could trace the formation of the sounds `` honesty is praised and starves ! '' 
`` And youare to be Cato I hear , Mr. Bulstrode , '' cried one of the young ladies , who thought more of a scarlet coat , I fancy , than was for her own good . 
asked Anneke , a little gravely . 
`` That is information for which I perceive I am now about to be indebted to Miss Mordaunt . '' 
Bulstrode took this little punishment , which was very sweetly but quite steadily uttered , with perfect good-humour , and with a manner so rebuked as to prove that Anneke possessed great control over him . 
He bowed in submission , and she smiled so kindly , that I wished the occasion for the little pantomime had not occurred . 
`` Ourancestors , Miss Mordaunt , never heard of any Pinkster , you will remember , and that must explain my ignorance , '' he said meekly . 
`` But some of minehave long understood it , and observed the festival , '' answered Anneke . 
Anneke replied , however , in a way to show that she thought the question natural for the circumstances , and not in the least out of place . 
I saw by this , the footing on which the formidable Major was placed in the family , everybody seeming to be related to Anneke Mordaunt but myself . 
I sawAnne Mordaunt several times , either in the street or in her own house , between that evening and the day I was to dine with her father . 
Here , I expected to meet Dirck , and hoped to see Anneke , for the place was much frequented by the young and gay , both in the mornings and in the evenings . 
As for myself , my own eyes were bent anxiously on the face of every pretty , delicate young creature that passed , in the hope of seeing Anneke . 
I both wished and dreaded to meet her ; for , to own the truth , my mind was dwelling on her beauty , her conversation , her sentiments , her grace , her gentleness , and withal her spirit , a good deal more than half the time . 
I had some qualms on the subject of Dirck , I will confess ; but Dirck was so young , that his feelings could not be much interested , after all ; and then Anneke was a second cousin , and that was clearly too near to marry . 
I apologized , I am afraid I blushed ; for I detected Anneke looking at me , as I thought , with some little concern , as if she pitied my awkward country embarrassment . 
As for Bulstrode , I did not understand him at that time ; it exceeding my observation to be certain whether he considered me of sufficient importance or not , to feel any concern on my account , in his very obvious suit with Anneke . 
`` Cæur de Lionis a better name for a soldier than for a civilian ; '' said Anneke , as we moved forward ; `` and , however much Mr. Littlepage may deservethe title , I am not certain , Mr. Bulstrode , he would not prefer leaving it among you gentlemen who serve the king . '' 
`` I am glad of this occasion , Mr. Littlepage , to enlist you on my side , in a warfare I am compelled to wage with Miss Anne Mordaunt , '' said the Major gaily . 
`` It is on the subject of the great merit of us poor fellows who have crossed the wide Atlantic in order to protect the colonies , New York among the number , and their people , Miss Mordaunt and Miss Wallace inclusively , from the grasp of their wicked enemies , the French . 
`` Before Mr. Littlepage accept the office , it is proper he should know its duties and responsibilities , '' said Anneke , smiling . 
I was much gratified with the `` as for you and me ; '' though I believe I cared less for Holland than she did herself . 
`` I shall dread you as a critic , cousin Annie , '' so Bulstrode often termed Anneke , as I soon discovered ; `` I find you are not too well disposed to us of the cockade , and I think you have a particular spite to our regiment . 
`` They then feel apprehensive of a very ignorant critic ; for I never was present at a theatrical entertainment in my life , '' Anneke answered with perfect simplicity . 
`` Really , Anneke Mordaunt , I am not absolutely certain that it is . 
Saying this , Anneke made her curtsies in a way to preclude any offer of seeing her home , and went her way with her silent but sensible-looking and pretty friend . 
`` As for training , I can see nothing but perfection in Miss Mordaunt as she is , and should deprecate the lessons that produced any change . '' 
My companion was silent for a minute ; then , without again adverting to Anneke , he began to converse very sensibly on the subject of theatres and plays . 
`` True ; but not a word more on thissubject : I would not have Anneke fancy I ever find it far to visit her . '' 
We found Anneke Mordaunt supported by two or three ladies of her connection , and a party of quite a dozen assembled . 
`` Failing of this son of a new Irish baron , I suppose you fancy I shall be obliged to give my hand to the eldest son of an English baronet , '' said Anneke , smiling , so as to take off the edge of a little irony that I fancy just glimmered in her manner . 
I thought this both bold and decided ; and I looked anxiously at Anneke , to note the effect ; but she evidently received it as trifling , certainly betraying no emotion at a speech I thought so pointed . 
I wished she had manifested a little resentment . 
Then she was so very young to be thus importuned ! 
`` Dinner had better be served , sir , '' she calmly observed to her father . 
`` I had not given Mr. Harris credit for so much ingenuity , '' said Anneke , quietly . 
Dinner was announced at that instant , and all eyes were turned on Harris , in expectation that he would advance to lead Anneke down stairs . 
This good company has met to do honour especially to his courage and devotion to his fellow-creatures , and he will do me the favour to hand Miss Mordaunt down stairs . '' 
As for myself , I felt my face in a glow , at this unexpected order , and scarcely dared to look at Anneke as we led the way to the dining-room door . 
`` Could I have foreseen this dinner , Miss Mordaunt , '' I said , when everybody was employed , and I thought there was an opening to say something to my beautiful neighbour ; `` it would have made my father very happy to have sent a sheepshead to town , for the occasion . '' 
Anneke thanked me , and then we began to converse about the game . 
Both Bulstrode and Harris listened to what I said on this subject with great attention , and it would soon have been the engrossing discourse , had not Anneke pleasantly said -- `` All very well , gentlemen ; but you will remember that neither Miss Wallace , nor I , shoot . '' 
This produced a laugh , a little at my expense , I believe ; though I could see that Anneke blushed , while Mary Wallace smiled indifferently ; but as the healths now began , there was a truce to trifling . 
Anneke 's turn came next , and she chose to give a sentiment , notwithstanding all Bulstrode 's remonstrances , who insisted on a gentleman . 
He did not succeed , however ; Anneke very steadily gave `` The Thespian corps of the -- th ; may it prove as successful in the arts of peace , as in its military character it has often proved itself to be in the art of war . '' 
Anneke complied , with very little urging , as became her position , and never did I hear sweeter strains than those she poured forth ! 
Bulstrode , I could see , was almost entranced ; and I heard him murmur `` an angel , by Heavens ! '' 
He sang , himself , a love song , full of delicacy and feeling , and in a way to show that he had paid much attention to the art of music . 
I know that Anneke seemed pleased , and I saw tears in her eyes , as I concluded a song that was intended to produce just such an effect . 
As Anneke declared that her father never locked in his guests , and had faithfully promised to bring up everybody for coffee , in the course of half an hour , it was determined to let things take their own way . 
I never saw a more lovely creature than Anneke Mordaunt appeared , as she led our party , on this occasion . 
The powder had got a little out of her fine auburn hair , and on the part of the head that was not concealed by a cap , that shaded half her beautiful face , it seemed as if the rich covering bestowed by nature was about to break out of all restraint , and shade her bust with its exuberance . 
Her negligée was a rich satin , flounced in front , while the lace that dropped from her elbows seemed as if woven by fairies , expressly for a fairy to wear . 
I do not thus describe Anneke with a view of inducing the reader to fancy her stately and repulsive ; on the contrary , winning ease and natural grace were just as striking in her manner , as were beauty , and sentiment , and feeling in her countenance . 
Bulstrode 's care was apparent in the manner in which he had provided for Anneke , and her party , which , I will take it on myself to say , was one of the most striking , for youth and good looks , that entered the house that evening . 
Anneke 's sweet face was a picture of youthful expectation ; an expectation , however , in which intelligence and discretion had their full share . 
Anneke 's bright eyes sparkled with pleasure as she admitted , without reserve , to Bulstrode the pleasure she had received , and confessed she had formed no idea , hitherto , of the beauty and power of a theatrical representation , aided as was this , by the auxiliaries of lights , dress and scenery . 
She hoped the after-piece would be of the same general character , that they might all enjoy it as much as they had the play itself . 
The other young ladies were equally decided in their praise , though it struck me that Anneke feltthe most , on the occasion . 
Mordaunt 's father was an English gentleman of some family , I have always heard , though he was as poor as a church-mouse , when he married one of our Dutch heiresses ; and as for Herman Mordaunt himself , he proved he had not lost the instinct by marrying another , though she did not happen to be Dutch . 
Here comes Anneke to inherit it all , and I 'll answer for it that care is had that she shall marry an heir . '' 
It seemed then to be settled , in the minds of most persons , that Bulstrode was to marry Anneke ! 
I was glad to see the smiles soon disappear from Anneke 's face , however , and to discover that shefound no pleasure in scenes so unsuited to her sex and years . 
The short , quick glances that were exchanged between Anneke and Mary Wallace , did not escape me , and the manner in which they both rose , as soon as the curtain dropped , told quite plainly the haste they were in to quit the theatre . 
Not a word was said by any of us , until we reached the street , where two or three of Miss Mordaunt 's female friends became loud in the expression of their satisfaction . 
Neither Anneke nor Mary Wallace said anything , and so well did I understand the nature of their feelings , that I made no allusion whatever to the farce . 
He got a seat directly opposite to mine , on Anneke 's left hand , and soon began to converse . 
Miss Mordaunt , '' said Bulstrode , in a very deferential and solicitous manner ; `` but I question if the entertainment gave you as much pleasure ? '' 
`` I fear I understand you , cousin Anne , and greatly regret that we did not make another choice , '' returned Bulstrode , with a humility that was not usual in his manner , even when addressing Anneke Mordaunt ; `` but I can assure you the play has great vogue at home ; and the character of Scrub , in particular , has usually been a prodigious favourite . 
`` But Miss Mordaunt is under no such engagement , '' put in a certain Mr. Benson , who had manifested much interest in the beautiful young mistress of the house throughout the day ; `` and I trust we shall not be put off by any such excuse from her . '' 
There had been an expression of pained surprise , at the trifling between Billings and Bulstrode , in Anneke 's sweet countenance ; for , in the simplicity of our provincial habits , we of the colonies did not think it exactly in rule for the single to toast the married , or vice versâ ; but the instant her friend was thus called on , it changed for a look of gentle concern . 
After colouring to the ears , appearing distressed , he made an effort , and pronounced the name of -- `` Anneke Mordaunt . '' 
As for Anneke , I saw she looked touched , while she looked concerned , and as if she would be glad to have the thing undone . 
`` No toast can be more agreeable to me than Anneke Mordaunt , and I particularly like the quarter from which this comes . '' 
So , after some trifling , the company attributing Dirck 's hesitation to his youth and ignorance of the world , abandoned the attempt , desiring him to call on Anneke herself for a toast in turn . 
`` CousinDirck Van Valkenburgh , '' said Anneke , with the greater self-possession and ease of her sex , though actually my friend 's junior by more than two years ; laying some emphasis , at the same time , on the word cousin . 
`` By which , sir , we are to understand how much Miss Mordaunt respects and esteems Mr. Dirck Van Valkenburgh , '' answered Bulstrode gravely . 
`` An imputation I am far from denying , '' returned Anneke , with a steadiness that showed wonderful self-command , did she really return any of Dirck 's attachment . 
Here there was an outbreak of raillery at Anneke 's expense , which the young lady bore with a calmness and composure that at first astonished me . 
I had obtained so much credit by my attempt at dinner , that I had the extreme gratification of being asked to sing another song by Anneke herself . 
I paid visits of leave-taking with a heavy heart , and most of all to Anneke and her father . 
Miss Mordaunt and her friend , Miss Wallace , go to Lilacsbush this afternoon ; for it is high time to look after the garden and the flowers , many of which are now in full bloom . 
I looked at Anneke , and fancied that the expression of her countenance was favourable . 
`` This is a favourite ride of mine , in which Anneke often accompanies me , '' said Herman Mordaunt , as we gained the commanding eminence I have mentioned . 
Never had I seen Anneke Mordaunt so perfectly lovely , as she appeared that morning . 
The exercise and air had deepened a bloom that was always rich ; and her eyes received new lustre from the glow on her cheeks . 
Though expected , I thought she received us as particularly acceptable guests ; while Mary Wallace manifested more than an usual degree of animation , in her reception . 
`` You frequently take these rides , Mr. Mordaunt tells me , '' I said , reining my horse to the side of that of Anneke 's , as the whole party moved on ; `` and I regret that Satanstoe is so distant , as to prevent our oftener meeting of a morning . 
`` I know several ladies , on your side of Harlem river , '' Anneke answered , `` and frequently ride in their company ; but none so distant as any in your immediate neighbourhood . 
I was obliged to assent , though I heartily wished that Anneke 's manner had been less animated and sincere , as she put the question . 
Still , I hardly knew what to think of her feelings towards that gentleman ; for , otherwise , she always heard him named with a calmness and self-possession that I had observed was not shared by all her young companions , when there was occasion to allude to the gay and insinuating soldier . 
These were things , that passed through my mind , as I rode along at Anneke 's side ; though I had the discretion not to give utterance to my thoughts . 
I fancied Anneke manifested some interest in this conversation ; but we rode on , and soon alighted at the door of Lilacsbush . 
Bulstrode was not in the way , and I had the supreme pleasure of helping Miss Mordaunt to alight , when we paused a moment before entering the house , to examine the view . 
The flowers filled the air with a species of purple light , that cast a warm and soft radiance even on the glowing face of Anneke , as she pointed out to me the magical effect . 
`` We enjoy the month our lilacs are out , beyond any month in the year , '' said Anneke , smiling at my surprise and delight ; `` and we make it a point to pass most of it here . 
Everywhere , it seemed to me , I met with the signs of Anneke 's taste and skill . 
I know not how it was , but the china appeared to me richer and neater than common under Anneke 's pretty little hand ; while the massive and highly-finished plate of the breakfast service , was such as could be wrought only in England . 
`` Mr. Littlepage tells me , Anneke , '' observed Herman Mordaunt , while we were at breakfast , `` that he intends to make a journey to the north , next winter , and it may be our good fortune to meet him there . 
I was charmed with this prospect of meeting Anneke Mordaunt at the north , and took occasion to say as much ; though I was afraid it was in an awkward and confused manner . 
asked Anneke , with a somewhat comical expression about her laughing eyes . 
Well , thatwas all right enough , but -- '' `` Surely , Anneke , you have not forgotten to return to Mr. Littlepage the money ! '' 
`` That 's just what she did , ` Squire Mordaunt , and I maintain there is not the man in all Connecticut that would have taken it . 
Herman Mordaunt , at first , looked gravely at the speaker , but catching the expression of our eyes he answered with the tact of a perfectly well-bred man , as he certainly was , on all occasions that put him to the proof -- `` You must overlook Miss Mordaunt 's adhering to her own customs , Mr. Newcome , on account of her youth , and her little knowledge of any world but that immediately around her . 
When she has enjoyed an opportunity of visiting Danbury , no doubt she will improve by the occasion . '' 
Anneke had made a lively impression on me from the very first , but that impression had now gone deeper than the imagination , and had very sensibly touched the heart . 
Perhaps it was necessary to see her in the retirement of the purely domestic circle , to give all her charms their just ascendency . 
While in town , I had usually met her in crowds , surrounded by admirers or other young persons of her own sex , and there was less opportunity for viewing the influence of nature and the affections on her manner . 
With Mary Wallace at her side , however , there was always one on whom she could exhibit just enough of these feelings to bring out the loveliness of her nature without effort or affectation . 
But , after the morning at Lilacsbush , it was too late for any such sacrifice on my part ; and I rode away from the house , at the side of my friend , as forgetful of his interest in Anneke , as if he had never felt any . 
Magnanimity and I had no further connection in relation to my pretensions to Anneke Mordaunt . 
I could not have spoken to be thus smiled on by Anneke . 
`` How odd it is , Corny , '' added my mother , in a sort of musing , soliloquizing way , -- `` you are an only child , and Anneke Mordaunt is also an only child , as Dirck Follock has often told me . '' 
`` Then Dirck has spoken to you frequently of Anneke , before this , mother ? '' 
-- I related to Anneke Mordaunt , without being too near ? '' 
So , you see , you and Anneke are actually related . '' 
`` They tell me , my child , that Anneke is a sweet creature ! '' 
`` If beauty , and modesty , and grace , and gentleness , and spirit , and sense , and delicacy , and virtue , and piety , can make any young woman of seventeen a sweet creature , mother , then Anneke is sweet . '' 
Anneke was with me , go where I would ; and glad was I when Dirck , about midsummer , in one of his periodical visits to Satanstoe , proposed that we should ride over , and make another visit to Lilacsbush . 
Anneke received us with a bright suffusion of the face , and kind smiles ; though I could not detect the slightest difference in her manners to either . 
To both was she gracious , gentle , attentive , and lady-like . 
Anneke thought there was about as much to be displeased with , as there was to please , in these representations ; though her removal to the country had prevented her seeing more than three of them all . 
My mother received Anneke as a relation ; though I believe that both Herman Mordaunt and his daughter were surprised to learn that they came within even the wide embrace of Dutch kindred . 
I mounted my horse , and rode five miles with the party , on its way back , and then took my leave of Anneke , as it turned out , for many , many weary months . 
One leading New York paper , edited by New England men , during the last controversy about the indemnity to be paid by France , actually styled the Duc de Broglie `` his grace , '' like a Grub Street cockney , -- a mode of address that would astonish that respectable statesman , quite as much as it must have amused every man of the world who saw it . 
It is possible , too , that Herman Mordaunt -- '' `` What of Herman Mordaunt and Anneke , mother ? '' 
`` I spoke only of Herman Mordaunt himself , and did not mention Anneke , boy , '' answered my mother , smiling , `` though I doubt not that the daughter is with the father . 
`` Why , your aunt says , it is whispered among a few in town , a very few only , but whispered , that Herman Mordaunt got the appointment named , merely that he might have a pretence for taking Anneke near the -- th , in which regiment it seems there is a baronet 's son , who is a sort of relative of his , and whom he wishes to marry to Anneke . '' 
`` My life on it , Anneke Mordaunt never contemplated so indelicate a thing ! '' 
`` No one supposes Anneke does , or did . 
Herman Mordaunt may imagine all this in hisheart , and Anneke be every thing that is innocent and delicate . '' 
Remember , my child , you can bring me no daughter I shall love half as well as I feel I can love Anneke Mordaunt . 
We are related too , her father 's great-great-grandmother -- '' `` Never mind the great-great-grandmother , my dear , good , excellent , parent . 
Unless Anneke Mordaunt consent to be your daughter , you will never have one . '' 
`` Remember there is no accounting for tastes ; the army is a formidable rival , and , after all , this Mr. Bulstrode , I think you call him , may prove as acceptable to Anneke as to her father . 
I recognised Bulstrode , in furs like all of us , capped and tailed , if not plumed , while among the half-dozen pairs of brilliant eyes that were turned with their owner 's smiling faces on us , I saw one which never could be forgotten by me , that belonged to Anneke Mordaunt . 
`` Then is Mr. Follock to be envied , since he can call cousin with so charming a young lady as Anneke Mordaunt . '' 
`` I do not know that I should go quite as far as that , Mr. Littlepage , '' returned Guert , moderating his warmth , in a manner that a little surprised me , though his handsome face still glowed with honest , natural admiration ; `` since there is a Miss Mary Wallace in her company , that is quite as much thought of , here in Albany , as her friend , Miss Mordaunt . '' 
The idea of comparing the silent , thoughtful , excellent though she were , Mary Wallace , with Anneke could never have crossed my mind . 
She was even handsome ; had a placid , saint-like character of countenance that had often struck me , singular beauty and development of form , and , in any other company than that of Anneke 's , might well have attracted the first attention of the most fastidious beholder . 
He was as good as his word , however , for he took a stand near the Dutch church , where I soon had the happiness of seeing Anneke and her friend driving past , on their evening 's excursion . 
But , the start of surprise , the smile , and the lightening eye of Anneke , as she unexpectedly saw me , filled my soul with delight , almost too great to be borne . 
Had I been disposed to act differently , however , the strength and courage necessary to effect such a purpose would have been annihilated in me , by finding myself standing within three feet , and directly in front of Anneke Mordaunt and Mary Wallace ! 
burst out of the rosy lips of Anneke , in a tone of voice that was not to be misunderstood . 
It is possible Anneke saw and understood this feeling , for she answered with a spirit that I had never seen her manifest before -- `` No , no , Mr. Ten Eyck , '' she said ; `` when Miss Wallace or I wish to ride down hill , and become little girls again , we will trust ourselves with boys , whose constant practice will be likely to render them more expert than men can be , who have had time to forget the habits of their childhood . 
That Anneke was displeased , was only too apparent ; and I felt fearful that her displeasure was not entirely free from contempt . 
Had Anneke taken the pains to remonstrate with me about the folly of what I had done , I should have been encouraged ; but the cold indifference of her manner , not to call it contempt , cut me to the quick . 
It is true , Anneke seemed to feel most on her friend 's account ; but I could not mistake the look of surprise with which she saw me , Cornelius Littlepage , rise from under her sleigh , and stand brushing the snow from my clothes , like a great calf as I was ! 
`` I have just met Anneke and Mary Wallace ! '' 
As for Anneke , I never saw her looking so beautiful ! '' 
`` Did Miss Mordaunt say she would be happy to see us on the old footing , Dirck ? '' 
`` Did she ? 
She said I shall be glad to see you , cousin Dirck , whenever you can come , and I hope you will bring with you sometimes the clergyman of whom you have spoken . '' 
`` To be sure ; Anneke had something to say about you , though it was so much out of the way , I can hardly tell you what it was now . 
I remember : she said ` I have seen Mr. Littlepage , and think he has grown since we last met ; he promises to make a manone of these days . ' 
`` Not if you intend to visit Miss Mordaunt , Dirck . 
Take my word for it , she does not like to see men following the pleasures of boys . '' 
After pausing a moment I said , as I flatter myself , with spirit -- `` Gentlemen , I will give you another almost as heavenly -- Miss Anneke Mordaunt ! '' 
`` Miss Anneke Mordaunt ! '' 
was echoed round the table , and I soon discovered that Anneke was a general favourite , and a very common toast already at Albany . 
It became grave in an instant , as if the recollection of her whose name he was about to utter produced a pause in his almost fierce mirth . 
At all events , the reader can judge of my horror , at finding that the party whose supper I had just helped to demolish , consisted , in addition to three or four sons and daughters of the house , of Herman Mordaunt , Mary Wallace , and Anneke ! 
It could scarcely be less than I felt myself , when I first beheld Anneke 's flushed features , and the look of offended propriety that I fancied to be sparkling in her estranged eye . 
As for Anneke , I thought she resented this somewhat indiscreet , not to say indelicate though indirect avowal of his feelings towards his mistress ; and that she looked on Guert with even more coldness than she had previously done . 
Guert did the same to one of the young ladies of the house ; Anneke was led in by one of the young men ; and I took the remaining young lady , who , I presumed , was also one of the family . 
Anneke did not even look at me , after the first astounded look given on my entrance ; nor did Mary Wallace once cast her eyes towards Guert , when we reached the supper-room . 
There was a general clearing up of countenances , at this frank avowal ; and I saw that Anneke , herself , turned her looks inquiringly upon the speaker , and suffered a smile to relieve the extreme gravity of her sweet countenance . 
Anneke 's face brightened up , more and more , as the explanations proceeded ; and , soon after they were ended , she turned to me in a very gracious manner , and inquired after my mother . 
`` You find some customs in Albany , Mr. Littlepage , that are not known to us , in New York , '' Anneke observed , after a few preliminary remarks had opened the way to further communication . 
`` I scarce know , Miss Anneke , whether you allude to what has occurred this evening , or to what occurred this afternoon ? '' 
`` To both , I believe , '' answered Anneke , smiling , though she coloured , as I thought , with a species of feminine vexation ; `` for , certainly , one is no more a custom with us than the other . '' 
`` I have been most unfortunate , Miss Mordaunt , in the exhibitions I have made of myself in the course of the few hours I have passed in this , to me , strange place . 
There lay the very shawl that Anneke had on , the day I met her in the Pinkster Field ; and a pair of gloves that it seemed to me no other hands but hers were small enough to wear , had been thrown on the shawl , carelessly , as one casts aside a thing of that sort , in a hurry . 
It is true , these gloves might belong to Mary Wallace , for she , too , had a pretty little hand , but I fancied they belonged to Anneke . 
Dropping the gloves , I turned and beheld Anneke herself . 
She was regarding me with an expression of countenance I did not then know how to interpret , and which I now hardly know how to describe . 
In the first place , her charming countenance was suffused with blushes , while her eyes were filled with an expression of softened interest , that caused my heart to beat so violently , that I did not know but it would escape by the channel of the throat . 
How near I was to declaring all I felt , at that moment ; of throwing myself at the feet of the dear , dear creature , and of avowing how much and engrossingly she had filled both my waking and sleeping thoughts during the last year , and of beseeching her to bless the remainder of my days , by becoming my wife ! 
Nothing prevented this sally , but the remark which Anneke made , the instant she had gracefully curtsied , in return to my confused and awkward bow , and which happened to be this : `` What do you find so much to admire in Miss Wallace 's gloves ? '' 
`` I beg pardon , Miss Mordaunt -- Miss Anneke -- that is -- I beg pardon . 
`` Do you then dislike Guert Ten Eyck as an acquaintance , Miss Anneke ? '' 
The quick , sensitive glance that Anneke gave me , said plainly enough that my question was indiscreet , and it was no sooner put than it was regretted . 
Then a light broke over all , a smile illumined her features , after which a light girlish laugh came to show how active were the agents within , and how strong was the native tendency to happiness and humour . 
`` After all , Corny Littlepage , '' said Anneke , turning her face towards me with an indescribable character of fun and feeling so blended in it , as fairly to puzzle me , `` you must admit that your exploit in the hand-sled was sufficiently ridiculous to last a young man for some time ! '' 
`` I confess it all , Anneke , and shall have a care how I turn boy again in a strange place . 
And she laughed , and this time it was naturally , and without the least restraint . 
`` I may hope , then , to be forgiven , Anneke ? '' 
I said , holding out a hand to invite her to accept it as a pledge of pardon . 
Anneke did not prudishly decline putting her own little hand in mine , though I got only the ends of two or three slender delicate fingers ; and her colour increased as she bestowed this grace . 
`` You must ask forgiveness , Corny , '' she answered , -- I believe she now used this familiar name simply to show how completely she had forgotten the little spleen she had certainly felt at my untoward exhibition in the street . 
If Corny Littlepage chooses to slide down hill , like a boy , what right has Anneke Mordaunt to say him nay ? '' 
It has ever appeared to me , Miss Mordaunt , as a most base and dastardly feeling in a man to wish to be certain of a woman 's returning his love , before he has the manliness to let his mistress understand his wishes . 
`` That is a merit which can not be denied him , '' answered Anneke , in a low , thoughtful tone of voice . 
`` And this you will admit , Miss Mordaunt , is to his credit ; is manly , and like himself ? '' 
`` I am glad you approve of such fair and frank proceedings ; -- though but a moment remains to say what I wish , it will suffice to add , that the course Guert Ten Eyck has taken towards Mary Wallace , Cornelius Littlepage would wish to pursue towards Anneke Mordaunt . '' 
Anneke started , turned pale ; then showed cheeks that were suffused with blushes , and looked at me with timid surprise . 
She made no answer ; though that earnest , yet timid gaze , long remained , and for that matter , still remains , vividly impressed upon my recollection . 
Mary Wallace was habitually silent ; but Anneke , without being loquacious , was sufficiently disposed to converse . 
Anneke even attempted , once or twice , to divert her father from certain comments that he made , in which he spoke rather lightly of such sort of amusements , in general . 
How do you account for this , Miss Anneke ? '' 
I was surprised at the boldness and decision of this opinion , for it was not Anneke 's practice to be so open in delivering her sentiments of others ; but , it was not long ere I discovered that she did not spare Guert , in the presence of her friend , from a deep conviction he was not worthy of the hold he was sensibly gaining on the feelings of Mary Wallace . 
`` I take your distinction , which may be a good one , in ordinary cases ; though , in the instance of Anneke Mordaunt , it may be merciful to let wandering young men , like yourself , Corny , comprehend the real state of the case . 
`` Am I to understand , Mr. Bulstrode , that Miss Mordaunt is your betrothed ? '' 
by no means ; for she has not yet made up her mind to accept me . 
You can judge for yourself of the probable termination , being a better judge , as a looker-on , than I , as a party interested , of Anneke 's manner of viewing my suit . '' 
`` As I consider you an ami de famille , Corny , there is no reason why there should not be a fair statement of things laid before you , for that affair of the lion will ever render you half a Mordaunt , yourself . 
I had proposed to Anneke , when you first saw me , and got the usual lady-like answer that the dear creature was too young to think of contracting herself , which was certainly truer then than now ; that I had friends at home who ought to be consulted , that time must be given , or the answer would necessarily be ` no , ' and all the usual substance of such replies , in the preliminary state of a negotiation . '' 
I added , unable to imagine how any man could hesitate about receiving Anneke Mordaunt for a daughter-in-law . 
-- What argument could be required to convince Sir Harry Bulstrode of the propriety of your getting Anneke Mordaunt for a wife , if you could ? '' 
`` All of which you communicated , of course , to Anneke and Herman Mordaunt ? '' 
I do not believe Anneke would marry the Duke of Norfolk himself , if the family raised the least scruple about receiving her . '' 
`` And would not Anneke be right , in acting under so respectable a feeling ? '' 
`` Why , you know she would only marry the duke , and not his mother , and aunts , and uncles . 
justice to Anneke demands that I should say this much . 
She knows of Sir Harry 's consent , however , and that is a good deal in my favour , you must allow . 
I suppose her great objection will be to quitting her father , who has no other child , and on him it willbear a little hard ; and , then , it is likely she will say something about a change of country , for you Americans are all great sticklers for living in your own region . '' 
It was in my power to be of a trifling service to Miss Anneke , last spring , and the whole family is disposed to remember it . '' 
`` So I can see , at a glance ; even Anneke remembers it . 
As the ladies have no present use for horses , however , Herman Mordaunt having brought up with him a very good pair , that came near running over you and me , Corny ; so there is no need of any sale ; but I shouldlike to drive Mary and Anneke a turn of a few miles , with that team of mine , and in my own sleigh ! '' 
`` I will propose the matter to Herman Mordaunt , or to Anneke , herself , if you desire it . '' 
Anneke and Mary Wallace had dined with Madame Schuyler , and their coats and shawls had just been brought to them , preparatory to returning home , as we entered . 
I had heard so much of Madame Schuyler as not to approach this respectable person without awe , and I had no eyes at first for her companions . 
She no sooner heard the name of Littlepage , than she threw a meaning glance towards the young female friends , mine following and perceiving Anneke colouring highly , and looking a little distressed . 
I could only bow , and express my thanks ; but it is unnecessary to say how grateful to me was praise of this sort , coming , as I knew it must , from Anneke in the first instance . 
`` I hope you will not exclude the Littlepages and the Mordaunts from your list of dissenters , Mr. Ten Eyck , '' observed Anneke , laughing , `` since both have Dutch blood in their veins , too . '' 
`` Very true , Miss Anneke ; Miss Wallace being the only true , thorough , Englishwoman here . 
To this proposition , however , Anneke would not consent ; her instinctive delicacy , I make no doubt , at once presenting to her mind the impropriety of quitting her own sleigh , to take an evening 's drive in that of a young man of Guert 's established reputation for recklessness and fun , and who was not always fortunate enough to persuade young women of the first class to be his companions . 
The turn the conversation had taken , nevertheless , had the effect to produce so many urgent appeals , that were seconded by myself , to give the horses a trial , that Mary Wallace promised to submit the matter to Herman Mordaunt , and , should he approve , to accompany Guert , Anneke and myself , in an excursion the succeeding week . 
Both Anneke and Mary Wallace found their way up the hill , going in a carriage ; though I observed that Herman Mordaunt was absent . 
Guert was in the gallery , in which we also sat ; but I could not avoid remarking that neither of the young ladies raised her eyes once , during the whole service , as high as our pews . 
exclaimed Anneke , laughing , `` Ten Eycks though they be ! '' 
`` Just our case now , Miss Anneke ! '' 
asked Anneke , a little inquiringly . 
It appeared unreasonable to distrust the strength of the ice , after this proof to the contrary , and Anneke submitted . 
Had our party been altogether composed of Albanians , there would probably have been no drawback on the enjoyment , for use would have prevented apprehension ; but it required the few minutes I have mentioned to give Anneke and Mary Wallace full confidence in the ice . 
Once , or twice , I fancied her eyes almost as bright as those of Anneke 's , and certainly her laugh was as sweet and musical . 
A casual remark of Guert 's had the effect to bring out some of Anneke 's private sentiments on the subject ; or , at least , so they appeared to be to me . 
`` Mr. Bulstrode is English , '' answered Anneke , with spirit , `` and fancies American amusements beneath the tastes of one who has been presented at the Court of St. James . '' 
`` Well , Miss Anneke , I can not say that I agree with you at all , in this opinion of Mr. Bulstrode , '' Guert returned , innocently . 
Miss Anneke -- let me entreat -- '' `` Oh ! 
`` Is this altogether liberal to Bulstrode , Miss Anneke , '' I ventured to put in ; `` he seems to like us , and I am sure he has good reason so to do . 
Anneke 's worthy connection was not only glad to see her , as anybody might have been , but she would have been glad to receive as many as her house would hold . 
The visit would retard her dinner an hour , as was frankly admitted -- but that was nothing ; and cakes and wine were set before us in the interval , did we feel hungry in consequence of a two hours ' ride . 
Anneke and Mary were kissed , enveloped in their furs , and kissed again , and then we took our leave . 
As for Anneke , she now knew my aim , and I had some right to construe several little symptoms of feeling , that escaped her in the course of the day , favourably . 
I fancied that , gentle as it always was , her voice grew softer , and her smile sweeter and more winning , as she addressed herself to , or smiled on me ; and she did just enough of both not to appear distant , and just little enough to appear conscious ; at least such were the conjectures of one who I do not think could be properly accused of too much confidence , and whose natural diffidence was much increased by the self-distrust of the purest love . 
Neither Anneke nor Mary exhibited any fear ; but , on the contrary , as the sleighs separated again , each had something pleasant , but feminine , to say at the expense of poor Mrs. Bogart 's imagination . 
It must have been altogether on Anneke 's account , and not in the least on my own . 
Had Anneke been at home , I could gladly have entered into a contract to pass a week on the river myself , as the condition of her safety . 
I thought but little of the others , to my shame be it said , though I can not do myself the injustice to imagine , had Anneke been away , that I would have deserted even a horse , while there was a hope of saving him . 
A slight exclamation escaped old Mrs. Bogart ; but Anneke and Mary remained still as death . 
I could see that Herman Mordaunt was uneasy about Anneke , though he could not bring her into his own sleigh , leaving Mary Wallace alone ; neither could he abandon his respectable connection , Mrs. Bogart . 
Before we re-entered the sleighs , I took an occasion to assure him that Anneke should be my especial care . 
At the same time , he put in practice a pious fraud , which had an excellent effect on the feelings and conduct of both the girls , throughout the remainder of the trying scenes of that fearful night ; more especially on those of Anneke . 
Thus did Anneke believe her father safe , and thus was she relieved from much agonizing doubt . 
Do you devote yourself to Mary , and leave Anneke to me . 
We pulled it as far as the tree beneath which Anneke and Mary stood ; when the ladies got into it and took their seats , enveloped in the skins . 
Anneke desired us to go , declaring that now she knew herself to be on dry land , all her own fears had vanished . 
`` Whither has Anneke gone ? '' 
I demanded , in an agony I can not describe -- `` I see nothing of Anneke ! '' 
`` She would not quit the sleigh , '' answered Mary Wallace , almost panting for breath -- `` I implored -- entreated her to follow me -- said you mustsoon return ; but she refused to quit the sleigh . 
Anneke is in the sleigh , if that can now be found . '' 
At first I could see no one in the sleigh ; but , on reaching it , I found Anneke buried in the skins . 
She was on her knees : the precious creature was asking succour from God ! 
I had a wild but sweet consolation in thus finding myself , as it might be , cut off from all the rest of my kind , in the midst of that scene of gloom and desolation , alone with Anneke Mordaunt . 
The moment I could make her conscious of my presence , she inquired after Mary Wallace , and was much relieved on learning that she was with Guert , and would not be left by him , for a single instant , again that night . 
said Anneke , over whom a momentary physical torpor appeared to have passed . 
`` Go you , Corny , '' she said ; `` a man may easily save himself ; and you are an only child -- the sole hope of your parents . '' 
`` Dearest , beloved Anneke ! 
From that moment the temporary imbecility of Anneke vanished , and I found her , for the remainder of the time we remained in jeopardy , quick to apprehend , and ready to second all my efforts . 
So intense was my apprehension on behalf of Anneke , that I can safely say , I did not think of my own fate , in the slightest degree , as disconnected from hers . 
I believe I both spoke and acted towards Anneke , as one would cling to , or address the being dearest to him in the world , for the next few minutes ; but , I can suppose the reader will naturally prefer learning what we did , under such circumstances , rather than what we said , or how we felt . 
`` Our case is hopeless , Cornelius , '' said Anneke ; speaking with a forced calmness when she found retreat impossible in that direction , `` Let us return to the sleigh , and submit to the will of God ! '' 
`` Beloved Anneke ! 
Cross it we did , my delicate companion being as much sustained by my supporting arm , as by her own resolution ; but we found the same obstacle to retreat interposing there also . 
By this time , owing to our hurried movement , I found Anneke so far exhausted , that it was absolutely necessary to pause a minute to take breath . 
At this awful instant , when I began to think it was the will of Providence that Anneke and I were to perish together , a strange sound interrupted the fearful natural accessories of that frightful scene . 
exclaimed Anneke , forgetting her own fears in generous sympathy . 
It seemed , to me , as if some one called my name ; and Anneke said , she so understood it , too . 
At the next moment , awful reports proceeded from the barrier above ; and , passing an arm around the slender waist of my lovely companion , to support her , I began a rapid movement in the direction of that call . 
Thither , then , I ran , almost carrying Anneke on my arm ; our speed increased by the terrific sounds from the dam above us . 
After getting up a layer or two , the broken mass became so irregular and ragged , as to render it necessary for me to mount first , and then to drag Anneke up after me . 
Anneke heard the snorting of those wretched horses ; but her unpractised eyes did not detect them , immersed , as they were , in the current ; nor had she recognised the sleigh that whirled past us , as her father 's . 
I said nothing on the subject , knowing that love for her father was one of the great incentives which had aroused my companion to exertion ; and being unwilling to excite fears that were now latent . 
Dear Anneke ! 
`` God has not deserted us , dearest Anneke , '' I said , now that my companion 's strength appeared to have returned , `` and we may yet hope to escape . 
Anneke declared herself ready to proceed , and I commenced the difficult and delicate task of aiding her across an island composed of icy fragments , in order to reach its western margin . 
Anneke , too , had socks of cloth ; without which , I do not think , she could have possibly moved . 
Not a murmur escaped Anneke , at this disappointment ; but , with a sweetness of temper that spoke volumes in favour of her natural disposition , and a resignation that told her training , she professed a readiness to renew her efforts . 
This descent was made , after some trouble , though I was compelled to receive Anneke entirely into my arms , in order to effect it . 
It placed both Anneke and myself behind a shelter , as respected the wind ; which , though neither very strong nor very cold , had enough of March about it to render the change acceptable . 
It took my companion , too , from a position where motion was difficult , and often dangerous ; leaving her on a level , even spot , where she could walk with ease and security , and keep the blood in motion by exercise . 
The moment now demanded decision ; and I prepared Anneke to meet it . 
This distance it would have been easy enough , for meto leap across , but , to Anneke , it was a barrier as impassable as the illimitable void . 
I have never doubted that Anneke was perfectly sincere in her wish that I should , at least , save my own life . 
The feeling with which she spoke ; the despair that was coming over her ; and the movement of our island , which , at that moment , gave signs of shooting away from the shore , altogether , roused me to a sudden , and certainly , to a very bold attempt . 
I observed all this ; and , saying one word of encouragement to Anneke , I passed an arm around her waist -- waited the proper moment -- and sprang forward . 
Scarcely permitting Anneke 's foot to touch this frail support , which was already sinking under our joint weight , I crossed it at two or three steps , and threw all my power into a last and desperate effort . 
I was compelled to wait for Anneke , who fell upon her knees , and remained there quite a minute , before I could aid her in ascending the steep acclivity which formed the western bank of the Hudson , at this particular point . 
As for the cakes of ice -- some darting past singly , and others piled as high as houses -- of course , the stream was filled with such ; but , a large , dark object was seen coming through that very channel , over which Anneke and I had stood , less than an hour before , sailing down the current with fearful rapidity . 
But the hour was late ; Anneke was yet to care for ; it was necessary to seek a shelter . 
Still supporting my lovely companion , who now began to express her uneasiness on account of her father , and her other friends , I held the way inland ; knowing that there was a high road parallel to the river , and at no great distance from it . 
I called aloud , and was answered by a shout of exultation , which , as I afterwards discovered , spontaneously broke out of his mouth , when he recognised the form of Anneke . 
I said this to quiet Anneke 's fears ; but I had misgivings about their having got off the river at all . 
On inquiry , I found that the spot where Anneke and myself had landed was quite three miles below the island on which Guert and I had drawn the sleigh . 
He folded Anneke to his heart , and she wept like an infant on his bosom . 
The reader may think it odd , that this incoherent , but pregnant speech , made little impression on me at the time , beyond the grateful conviction of having really rendered the greatest of all services to Anneke and her father ; though I had better occasion to remember it afterwards . 
`` Mr. Herman Mordaunt , '' he cried , shaking that gentleman most cordially by the hand , `` I look upon you as one raised from the dead ; you and my excellent neighbour , Mrs. Bogart , and Mr. Follock , here ! 
Corny and Miss Anneke -- God bless you both ! 
In a minute he was inside of Herman Mordaunt 's house -- in another Anneke and Mary Wallace were locked in each other 's arms . 
As soon as he hears that we are indebted to your coolness and courage for the life of Miss Mordaunt , he will move heaven and earth , to manifest his gratitude . 
The instant this good parent made up his mind to accept Miss Mordaunt as a daughter , he began to consider her as a child of his own . '' 
`` And Anneke -- Miss Mordaunt , herself , Mr. Bulstrode -- does she regard Sir Henry as a father ? '' 
Women are slower than us men to admit such totally novel impressions ; and I dare say Anneke fancies one father enough for her , just at this moment : though she sends very pleasant messages to Sir Harry , I can assure you , when in the humour ! 
You have told me that you are a suitor for Miss Mordaunt 's hand ; I will now own to you that I am your rival . '' 
`` So you actually wish to become the husband of Anneke Mordaunt , yourself , my dear Corny , do you ? '' 
`` Have you ever let Miss Mordaunt know that such are your wishes ? '' 
-- While she thought her life was in your hands ! '' 
Whatever it may cost me , if Anneke prefer another , her happiness will be dearer to me than my own . '' 
Even Anneke received Guert with much favour , after his excellent behaviour on the river ; and I fancied that everything was going on most flatteringly for my friend , while it seemed to me that I made no advances in my own suit . 
During the whole of that month , it ought to be premised , I had not dared to speak of love to Anneke . 
he was thinking of Anneke -- and he passed through the outer room without once raising his eyes from the floor . 
`` Did she tell you to look into the sweetmeat-pot , for the lost spoon , Mr. Ten Eyck , '' Anneke inquired , with an archness of eye and voice , that sent the blood to my own face , in confusion . 
`` Well , Miss Anneke , I see , you have no faith , '' answered Guert , fidgeting ; `` and people who have no faith , never believe . 
It would seem , that Anneke and Mary Wallace had refused to let Mr. Mordaunt go alone ; and , believing , himself , there was no danger in the course he was about to take , the father and guardian , for Mary Wallace was Herman Mordaunt 's ward , had yielded to the importunities of the two girls ; and it had been formally decided that they were all to proceed together , as soon as the season should get to be a little more advanced . 
No sooner was the door closed on the retiring members of our party , than I saw a smile struggling about the handsome mouth of Anneke ; Mary Wallace continuing the whole time thoughtful , if not sad . 
`` And youwere of the party at the fortune-teller 's , too , it seems , Mr. Littlepage , '' Anneke remarked , after appearing to be debating with herself on the propriety of proceeding any farther in the subject . 
`` You are severe on us , Anneke ; '' for , since the affair on the river , the whole family treated me with the familiarity of a son or a brother -- `` I fancy we have done no more than Mr. Mordaunt has done in his day . '' 
observed Anneke , as one asks a question . 
`` I have nothing to conceal -- and least of all from you , Anneke . 
I watched Anneke closely , as I repeated this warning of Mother Doortje ; but could not read the expression of her sweet and thoughtful countenance . 
said Anneke , after a short pause . 
The next remark that was made came from Anneke , and it referred to the weather . 
The Lord Howe of whom Anneke spoke , is said to be a young man of merit , and to possess the blood of our Hanoverian monarchs ; his mother being a half-sister , in the natural way , of his present Majesty . '' 
For my own part , I have always been of opinion , that Anneke was solely influenced by pure , natural regard , in forming her indiscreet resolution ; while her father was governed by the secret expectation that the movement would leave open the means of receiving visits and communications from Bulstrode , during most of the summer . 
I commended the arrangements , made one or two suggestions of my own in behalf of Anneke and Mary , and we returned to our several homes . 
I thought him melancholy , as if sad at parting ; but my most jealous observation could detect no sign of similar feeling on the part of Anneke . 
She was not quite as gay as usual , but she was far from being sad . 
Anneke coloured a little ; but there was no tremor in the beautiful hand , that held a highlywrought little tea-pot suspended over a cup , at that very moment . 
When Bulstrode rose to take his leave , I wished myself away , on account of the exhibition of concern it produced ; while the desire to watch the effect on Anneke , would have kept me rooted to the floor , even had it been proper that I should retire . 
This campaign will be decisive , for me , '' -- glancing towards Anneke -- `` I must return a conqueror , in one sense , or I do not wish to return at all . 
Two girls , educated , however , as had been Anneke and Mary Wallace , could not but acquit themselves better , in such a scene , than those who had been less accustomed to the usages of polite life , which are always , more or less , the usages of convention . 
Anneke 's turn came next . 
Her handkerchief was at her eyes ; and , when it was removed , the face was pale , and the cheeks were covered with tears . 
He took Anneke 's hand , pressed it to his heart , kissed it , left a note in it , bowed , and moved away . 
I felt ashamed to watch the countenance of Miss Mordaunt , under such circumstances , and turned aside , that observation might not increase the distress and embarrassment she evidently felt . 
Anneke 's colour had come and gone , as Bulstrode stood near her , acting his dumb-show of leave-taking ; and , to me , she seemed far more affected than Mary Wallace had been . 
Notwithstanding the kindness of this parting , I had more cause than ever to regret Bulstrode had appeared among us ; and the scenes of that morning only confirmed me in a resolution , previously adopted , not to urge Anneke to any decision , in my case , at a moment when I felt there might be so much danger it would be adverse . 
Anneke and Mary travelled in habits , made of light woman 's cloth , and in a manner to fit their exquisite forms like gloves . 
Lord Howe was among the guests , that day ; and he appeared to admire the spirit of Anneke and Mary Wallace greatly , in attempting such an expedition , at such a time . 
Anneke thanked him for this pledge , and the conversation changed . 
Anneke and Mary Wallace , however , showed the most perfect good-humour ; and our dinner , or supper might better be the name , was composed of deliciously fat and tender broiled pigeons . 
A century hence , indeed , my descendants may benefit from all this outlay of money and trouble ; but it is not probable that either I or Anneke will ever see the principal and interest of the sums that will be expended in the way of roads , bridges , mills , and other things of that sort . 
Half a century will produce a great change in this colony ; and , at the end of that period , a child of Anneke 's may be thankful that his mother had a father who was willing to throw away a few thousands of his own , the surplus of a fortune that was sufficient for his wants without them , in order that his grandson may see them converted into tens , or possibly into hundreds of thousands . '' 
I was glad to see by the extent of this rude structure , which was a hundred feet long by fifty in depth , that Anneke and Mary Wallace would not be likely to be straitened for room . 
But , at such a moment , one does not stop to think much of such things ; there being tears in Anneke 's eyes , as well as in those of her friend . 
This letter was sometimes written by Herman Mordaunt himself , but oftener by Anneke , or Mary Wallace . 
Then Anneke and Mary Wallace , with their bright , blooming , sunny faces -- bright and happy whenever we appeared , most certainly , of late -- were in the former direction , and even Dirck cried out ` for Ravensnest . ' 
Shall I confess that the idea gave me great pain , and that I was fool enough to wish I , too , could return to Anneke , and appeal to her sympathies , by dragging with me a wounded limb ! 
This was not my manner of viewing the matter , however ; for the mentioning of Ravensnest brought Anneke to my mind , surrounded by the horrors of an Indian 's revenge . 
`` Anneke . '' 
This postscript afforded me far more satisfaction than the body of the note ; and I was quite as ready to comply with Anneke 's request , as the dear girl , herself , could be to urge it . 
Guert 's letter was as follows : -- `` Mr. Mordaunt has commanded Anneke and myself to write to those of your party , with whom he fancies each has the most influence , to urge you to come to Ravensnest , as speedily as possible . 
Anneke and her friend received us in a bright , cheerful , comfortable apartment , that was rendered so much the more attractive by their tears and their smiles , neither of which were spared . 
The dear girls clasped their hands , and I thought Anneke 's pallid lips moved , as if in prayer . 
Her father shook his head , and for some time he paced the room in silence . 
If we quit this Nest of Herman Mordaunt 's without ascertaining the true state of Anneke 's feelings , we shall deserve to be condemned to celibacy for the remainder of our days . 
`` Anneke must have too many apprehensions on her own account , and on account of others , to be as sensible to the tender sentiments of love , as might be the case in the peace and security of Lilacsbush . '' 
I could not avoid smiling at Bulstrode 's singular views of our suit ; but , as Anneke was ever with me an engrossing theme , spite of our situation , which certainly was not particularly appropriate to love , I did not feel equal to quitting it abruptly . 
Anneke loves oneof us two , beyond all question . 
That she loves , I will swear ; her blushes , her beaming eyes , even her beauty is replete with the loveliness of the sentiment . 
Now , it is not possible that she should love any other person than one of us two , for the simple reason that she has no other suitor . 
That I should succeed with Anneke , he did not think , as was apparent to me by his general manner , and the consciousness he must have possessed of his own advantages in the way of rank and fortune , as well as in having Herman Mordaunt 's good wishes . 
Anneke was the sole occupant of the little room in which the girls habitually staid , when I returned to it ; Guert having managed to induce Mary Wallace to walk with him in the court , the only place the ladies now possessed for exercise ; while Herman Mordaunt , Mr. Worden , and Dirck , were together in the public-room , making some arrangement with the confused body of the settlers , who had crowded into the Nest , for the night-watch . 
I shall not stop to express the delight I felt at finding Anneke there ; nor was it in any degree diminished , as I met the soft expression of her sweet eyes , and saw the blushes that suffused her cheek . 
This being the first occasion , too , on which I had ever had an opportunity of urging my suit very directly , there was so much to be said , so many things to be explained , and so many seemingly slighted occasions to account for , that Anneke had little else to do , for the first ten minutes , but to listen . 
I have always ascribed the self-possession which my companion was enabled to command during the remainder of this interview , to the time that was thus accorded her to rally her thoughts . 
Dear , precious Anneke ! 
How admirably did she behave that memorable night ! 
I could see that my sweet listener was touched , from the moment I commenced , and that her countenance betrayed a tender interest in what I said . 
Presuming on this , or encouraged by her blushes and her downcast eyes , I ventured to take a hand , and perceived I was not repulsed . 
Then it was that I found words , that actually brought tears to my companion 's eyes , and Anneke was enabled to answer me . 
`` This is so unusual -- so extraordinary a time to speak of such things , Corny , '' she said , `` that I hardly know what ought to be my reply . 
I have a feeling uppermost , at this instant , that I wish to express , yet scarce know how -- '' `` Do not suppress it , beloved Anneke ; be as generous as I am certain you are sincere . '' 
As the tears , as well as blushes of Anneke , accompanied these admissions , it was not possible for me to doubt what I heard . 
Anneke admitted to me , before we separated , that she had often thought of the chivalrous boy , who had volunteered to do battle in her behalf , when she was little more than a child herself , and thought of him as a generousminded girl would be apt to think of a lad , under the circumstances . 
An expression to this effect even escaped her aloud -- `` Have no concern on Mr. Bulstrode 's account , Corny , '' Anneke answered , smiling archly , like one who had well weighed the pros and cons of the whole subject , in her own mind ; `` he may be a little mortified , but his fancy will soon be forgotten in rejoicing that he had not yielded to a passing inclination , and connected himself with a young , inexperienced American girl , who is hardly suited to move in the circles in which his wife must live -- I do believe Mr. Bulstrode prefers me , just now , to any other female he may happen to know ; but his attachment , if it deserve the name , has not the heart in it , dear Corny , that I know is to be found in your 's . 
`` On this subject , you are not to expect me to say much , Corny , '' answered Anneke , smiling . 
When Anneke left me , which , at the expiration of more than an hour , she insisted on doing , under the consciousness of all that had passed between us , I had a good deal of difficulty in believing that I was not dreaming . 
For myself , I felt as if I had fifty lives to lose , Anneke being uppermost in my thoughts . 
Such was the state of things when Anneke 's own girl came to ask me to go to her mistress , if it were possible for me to quit my station , were it only for a minute . 
I found Anneke expecting me in that little parlour where I had so recently listened to her sweet confessions of tenderness the evening before . 
She was alone , the instinct of her sex teaching her the expediency of having no witness of the feelings and language that might escape two hearts that were united as were ours , under circumstances so trying . 
Notwithstanding the liveliness and varying character of her feelings , Anneke was the first to speak . 
`` I have sent for you , Corny , '' she said , laying a hand on her heart , as if to quiet its throbbings , `` to say one word in the way of caution -- I hope it is not wrong . '' 
`` You cando nothing wrong , beloved Anneke , '' I answered ; `` or , nothing that would seem so in my eyes . 
Enabled by this relief to command her feelings a little , it was not long ere Anneke raised herself from the endearing embrace I felt impelled to give her , though still permitting me to hold both her hands ; and she looked up into my face , with the full confidence of affection , renewing the discourse . 
`` I could not suffer you to engage in this terrible scene , Corny , '' she said , without one word , one look , one sign of the interest I feel in you . 
`` We are the only children of our parents , Anneke , and our union will gladden their hearts almost as much as it can gladden our own . '' 
Anneke seemed thoughtful , and it struck me she was a little distressed . 
she said , after a short pause . 
`` I understand you , Anneke . 
`` I can not change Mary Wallace 's nature , Corny , '' said Anneke , smiling sadly , and , as I fancied , in a way that said ` were it I , the virtues of Guert should soon outweigh his defects ; ' `` but Mary will be Mary , and we must submit . 
I folded her to my heart ; that being no moment for affectations or conventional distance ; and I know Iwas , while I trusted Anneke might be , none the less happy for remembering we had exchanged these proofs of mutual attachment . 
Itwas a most painful moment to me , when Herman Mordaunt , an hour after all these facts were established , came to summon me to the presence of Anneke and Mary Wallace . 
One gleam of joy , one ray of the sunshine of the heart , shone on Anneke 's sweet countenance as she saw me unharmed enter the room , but it quickly disappeared in the strong sympathy she felt for the sufferings of her friend . 
Anneke was the first to speak . 
the precious girl said , with fervour , pressing the hand that had taken one of hers , in both her own . 
At the very moment she was boasting of her fortitude and ability to endure , her whole frame was trembling from head to foot , her face was of the hue of death , and the smile with which she spoke was frightfully haggard . 
That pent-up passion , which had so long struggled with her prudence , could no longer be suppressed . 
That she really loved Guert , and that her love would prove stronger than her discretion , I had not doubted , now , for some months ; but , never having before witnessed the strength of any feeling that had been so long and so painfully suppressed , I confess that this exhibition of a suffering so intense , in a being so delicate , so excellent , and so lovely , almost unmanned me . 
Is not this true , Anneke ? '' 
Anneke knelt at the side of her friend , folded her in her arms , drew the quivering head down upon her own sympathizing bosom , and held it there a moment , in the very attitude of protecting , solacing love . 
In a few minutes , the sufferer became more calm , when she retired into herself , as was her wont , leaving Anneke and me to discuss the subject . 
Anneke 's painful smile added force to this request , and I tore myself away unwilling to quit such a sufferer , yet unable to remain . 
`` Anneke would hardly pardon me for consenting to that , '' he answered . 
This squeeze of the hand is worth an estate to a man in my situation ; but remember Anneke . 
As for Anneke , she was like herself , gentle , mourning , and full of sympathy for her friend . 
Anneke has since told me , however , that Mary 's self-command did not altogether desert her , while Guert 's cheerful gratitude probably so far deceived her as to create a short-lived hope that the wound was not mortal . 
Anneke told me , subsequently , that Mary Wallace had owned her love , in answer to an earnest appeal on his part , and , from that moment , he had expressed himself as one who was about to die contented . 
Anneke and I knew that her very soul yearned to lead his thoughts to dwell on the subject of the great change that was so near . 
Towards evening , it was just as the sun was tinging the summits of the trees with its parting light , she came towards Anneke and myself , with a face that was slightly illuminated with something like a glow of pleasure , and whispered to us , that Guert was better . 
Herman Mordaunt thought it necessary to remain at Ravensnest , and Anneke would not quit her father . 
I ought , however , to have alluded to the parting with Anneke , before I gave the foregoing extract from the parson 's homily . 
Circumstances prevented my having much private communication with my betrothed before quitting the Nest ; for Anneke 's sympathy with Mary Wallace was too profound to permit her to think much , just then , of aught but the latter 's sorrows . 
Anneke wept for a few minutes in my arms , a quarter of an hour before our melancholy procession quitted the Nest . 
Herman Mordaunt had requested nothing might be said to the major of my engagement ; though an early opportunity was to be taken by himself , to let the suitor understand that Anneke declined the honour of his hand . 
I shall not deny that I fancied Anneke fitted to adorn the station and circles to which Bulstrode would have carried her ; and , perhaps , it is a natural parental weakness to wish to see one 's child promoted . 
I dare say , after all , you would much rather be Anneke 's choice , than be mine ? '' 
As you are to live in this country , the joint means of the two families , which , some day , must centre in you and Anneke , will prove all-sufficient ; and , as for posterity , Ravensnest and Mooseridge will supply ample provisions . 
Anneke always occupied much of my thoughts , but pleasing pictures of her gentle decision , her implicit reliance on myself , her resignation , her spirit , and her intelligence were now blended , without any alloy , in my recollections . 
Thus aided , equally by Anneke 's gentle , blushing admissions , and my own wishes , I had no difficulty in recalling pictures that were infinitely agreeable to myself , though possibly not minutely accurate . 
`` None , unless it be the report that Miss Anneke will never return to us . '' 
`` Anneke not return ! 
`` Not as MissAnneke , but as Lady Anneke , or something of that sort . 
I tell the neighbours it is too much , Miss Anneke being worth any lord in England , on her own , sole , account . '' 
I had not spoken of that adventure in my letters , because I was uncertain of the true state of Anneke 's feelings , and did not wish to raise expectations that might never be realized . 
I wish to hear you speak of Anneke -- is it true that she is going to be married ? '' 
I can affirm that much from her own mouth . '' 
`` And she has even had the effrontery to own this to you , Corny ? '' 
`` She has , indeed ; though truth compels me to add , that she blushed a great deal while admitting it , and seemed only half-disposed to be so frank : that is , at first ; for , in the end , she rather smiled than blushed . '' 
It is only a proof that vanity , and worldly rank , and worldly riches , stand higher in the estimation of Anneke Mordaunt , than excellence and modest merit . '' 
`` What has Mr. Bulstrode to do with my marriage with Anne Mordaunt ; or any one else but her own sweet self , who has consented to become my wife ; her father , who accepts me for a son , my father , who is about to imitate his example , by taking Anneke to his heart as a daughter , and you , my dearest , dearest mother , who are the only person likely to raise obstacles , as you are now doing . '' 
-- when I was made to relate all that was proper to be told , of what had passed between Anneke and myself . 
I endeavoured to interest myself in the old Neck , and to plan schemes of future happiness there , that were to be realized in Anneke 's society . 
Anneke had written to me twice previously to this ; two beautifully expressed , feminine , yet spirited , affectionate letters , in which the tenderness and sensibility of her nature were barely restrained by the delicacy of her sex and situation . 
`` I was not thinking of your marriage , sir , but that of Miss Anneke , over at the ` Bush , to this Lord Bulstrom . 
I was sorry to hear that Bulstrode was at Lilacsbush , but had no apprehension of his ever marrying Anneke . 
So you have only to provide yourself with a lantern and a tub , marry Anneke , and set up housekeeping . 
That which first struck me , in Anneke , as is the case with most young men , was her delicacy of appearance , and her beauty . 
`` What I mean , is this -- that Anneke is one of your second class , or is better than what fashion can make her ; and Scrub has been the means of my undoing . 
She does not care for fashion , in a play , or a novel , or a dress even , but looks for the proprieties . 
I lingered in sight of the house until evening , when I ventured nearer , hoping to get a glimpse of Anneke as she passed some window , or appeared , by the soft light of the moon , under the piazza that skirted the south front of the building . 
When a woman really loves , Anneke , it is vain to struggle against anything but positive unworthiness , I fear . 
You have done well , dearest Anneke , in being so frank with Corny Littlepage , and in avowing that preference which you have felt almost from the first day of your acquaintance . '' 
`` It must be Mr. Bulstrode , '' said the gentle voice of Anneke , `` who is probably looking for us -- see , there he comes , and we will meet -- '' The dear speaker became tongue-tied ; for , by this time , I was near enough to be recognised . 
At the next instant , I held her in my arms . 
At the end of that time , by Anneke 's persuasion , I entered the house , and had to brave Herman Mordaunt 's disposition to rally me . 
I was not only mercifully , but hospitably treated , however , Anneke 's father merely laughing at my little adventure , saying , that he looked upon it favourably , and as a sign that I was a youth of spirit . 
We made but one family , between town , Lilacsbush , and Satanstoe , Anneke and my mother , in particular , conceiving a strong affection for each other . 
His letters , however , are too light-hearted to leave us any concern on the subject ; though these are matters that may fall to the share of my son Mordaunt , should he ever have the grace to continue this family narrative . 
