`` To be sure he did . 
He was the glory of the town . 
He pulled down the old clapboard meeting house that his father used to preach in , and built a new one for him : besides giving a start in business to half the young men of the village . '' 
`` Yes ; what about him ? 
He seems a hardy , good-looking young fellow enough . '' 
`` He is John Morton 's son . '' 
I remember him when he was a child , but have not seen him for these ten years . 
After his father 's death , his mother took him to Europe , to be educated ; but she never came back ; she died in Paris . '' 
`` He is Mr. Morton 's only child -- is he not ? '' 
`` Yes ; his first wife had no children ; and after he had buried her , -- which , by the way , I believe was the happiest hour of his life , -- he married a very different sort of person , Margaret Vassall , this boy 's mother . '' 
`` O , Morton was a noble old gentleman , a merchant of the old school , and generous as the day ; but he had his faults . 
He made nothing of his three bottles of Madeira at dinner , and besides -- Ah , Mr. Jacobs , so you have found Macknight . '' 
That 's the son of your old friend , Mr. Morton . '' 
Mr. Morton wasa friend to me , sir -- a very kind friend . '' 
-- what class are you in , Mr. Morton ? '' 
`` Good morning , sir , '' said Morton , divided between an inclination to smile at the odd , humble little figure before him , and an unwillingness to wound the other 's feelings . 
Morton gathered them out of the mud , and thrusting them back again into their place , left his burdened fellowstudent to make the best of his way towards his den in Stoughton Hall . 
Morton remembered to have seen him before . 
At his side , and under his tutelary care , sat two personages , who , from their dimensions , must have been boys of some seven years old , but from the solemnity of their countenances , might have passed for a brace of ancient philosophers . 
They looked so much alike that Morton thought he saw double . 
In amazement at these phenomena , Morton turned next towards the fourth member of the party ; and here he encountered a new emotion , of a kind quite different . 
Hitherto , in his college seclusion , he had not very often met , except in imagination , with that union of beauty , breeding , and refinement which belongs to the best life of cities , and which he now saw in the person of a young lady , a year or two his junior . 
He longed for a pretext to address her , but found none ; when her father -- for such he seemed -- broke silence , and accosted him . 
`` He was my father 's old friend . 
And Leslie , observing him with an eye not unused to measure the thews and sinews of men , saw that , though his frame was light , and his shoulders not broad , yet his compact proportions , deep chest , and muscular limbs , showed the highest degree of bodily vigor . 
Morton cast a sidelong glance at him , and there was a covert smile in his eye . 
He began to see a weak spot in his companion . 
Leslie did not see Morton 's meaning , and took the words literally , as the latter intended he should . 
Though he admired the daughter , he refrained with difficulty from quizzing the father . 
And , rising , he left the room . 
`` A very good young man , this seems to be , '' he thought to himself , as he did so . 
`` Amiable , good natured , and all that ; but very soft , for a man who has seen hard service , '' thought Morton , on his part . 
Morton , meanwhile , was breathing a charmed air ; and though diffident in the presence of ladies , and not liberally endowed by nature with the gift of tongues , his zeal to commend himself to the good opinion of Miss Edith Leslie availed somewhat to supply the defect . 
He had never mixed with the world , conventionally so called , and knew as much of ladies as of mermaids . 
But having an ardent temperament and a Quixotic imagination ; being addicted , moreover , to Froissart and kindred writers ; and , indeed , visited with a glimmering of that antique light which modern folly despises , he would have been ready , with the eye of a handsome woman upon him , for any rash and ridiculous exploit . 
This extravagance did him no manner of harm . 
On the contrary , it went far to keep him out of mischief ; for in the breast of this youngster a chivalresque instinct battled against the urgency of vigorous blood , and taught his nervous energies to seek escape rather in ceaseless bodily exercises , rowing , riding , and the like , than in any less commendable recreations . 
Morton watched the lumbering carriage till it disappeared down the rugged gorge of the Notch , then drew a deep breath , and ruefully betook himself to his day 's sport . 
He explored , rod in hand , the black pools and plunging cascades of the Saco ; but for once that he thought of the trout , he thought ten times of Edith Leslie . 
Towards night , however , he returned with a basket reasonably well filled ; and , as he drew near the inn , he saw a young man , of his own age , or thereabouts , sitting under the porch . 
He had a cast of features which , in a feudal country , would have been taken as the sign of noble birth ; and though he wore a slouched felt hat and a rough tweed frock , though his attitude was careless , though he held between his teeth a common clay pipe , at which he puffed with much relish , and though he was conversing on easy terms with two attenuated old Vermont farmers , with faces like a pair of baked apples , -- yet none but the most unpractised eye would have taken him for other than a gentleman . 
As soon as Morton saw him , he shouted a joyful greeting , to which Mr. Edward Meredith , rising and going to meet his friend , replied with no less emphasis . 
Morton took possession of the sofa ; his friend of the arm chair . 
`` Try , and judge for yourself , '' said Morton , handing his cigar case . 
They chased a bear , and lost him in a windfall ; killed two moose , six deer , and trout without number ; and underwent , with exemplary patience , a martyrdom of midges , black flies , and mosquitoes . 
Itwas a week before `` class day , '' -- that eventful day which was virtually to close the college career of Morton and his contemporaries . 
Of these last was Morton , who , with three or four of his class , walked across the college yard , towards the great gateway . 
By his side was a young man named Rosny , carelessly dressed , but with a lively , dare-devil face , and the look of a good-natured game cock . 
`` But , Dick , '' said Morton , who had been laughing in his sleeve during the scene , `` do you want to be considered as a Frenchman or an American ? '' 
`` No , no , '' said Rosny , as Morton pushed a glass towards him , `` drinking is against my rule -- Well , as it 's about the last time , '' -- filling the glass , -- `` here 's to you all . '' 
`` But , Chester , '' said Wren , `` that is not at all like Morton ; you know he hates utilitarianism . '' 
`` Yes , but still he can not rest . 
He would not build saw mills and dams ; but he would be sure to fire his rifle at some of Adam 's live stock , and set all Eden by the ears . 
This he owed , perhaps , to his habitual reserve ; for every one thought that he understood Morton thoroughly , while few pretended to fathom the silent and self-contained Vinal . 
`` Did n't you just say , '' asked Rosny , `` that Morton could n't rest , if he tried ? '' 
`` I said he could not rest , but I did not say he could not enjoy himself . 
Look at him : his cheek is ruddier and browner than any of us . 
He could roam from blossom to blossom , as Chester says , with as good a will as any body . 
Rosny , who had his own reasons for disliking Vinal , here broke in without ceremony , -- `` Be gad , Vinal , he will bait his hook differently when he fishes for you . '' 
`` I defer to Rosny -- he is my senior . 
`` What , no profession , Mr. Morton ? 
In his early days , he had come from his native Connecticut with letters to Morton 's father , who , seeing his value , took him as a clerk , placed unbounded trust in him , and at last made him his partner . 
He was a youth of slow parts , solid judgment , solemn countenance , steady habits , and a most unpliable conscience . 
He had no follies , allowed himself no indulgences , and could enjoy no other pleasures than business and church-going . 
He attended service morning , afternoon , and evening , and never smiled on Sundays . 
His old age was as upright and stiff-necked as might have been augured from such a youth . 
He thought the rising generation were in a very bad way , and once gave his son a scorching lecture on vanity and arrogance , because the latter , who had been two years at college , very modestly begged to be excused from carrying a roll of sample cotton , a yard and a half long , from his father 's store at one end of the town , to the shop of a retail dealer at the other . 
`` What , no profession , Mr. Morton ? '' 
It would be folly , he knew , to debate the point with his guardian , who was tough and unmanageable as a hickory stump ; who would never see any side of a question but his own , and on whose impervious brain reasons fell like rain drops on a tarpauline . 
Flintlock , therefore , opened fire unanswered , and discoursed for a full hour on duty , propriety , and a due respect for what he called the general sense of the community , which , as he assured his auditor , demands that every one should have some fixed and stated calling , by which he may be recognized as a worthy and useful member of society . 
Sometimes he grew angry , and scolded his ward with great vehemence ; then subsided into a pathetic strain , and exhorted him , for the sake of his excellent father , not to grow old in idleness and frivolity . 
Morton , respectful , but obdurate , heard him to an end , assured him that , though renouncing commerce and the professions , his life would by no means be an idle one , thanked him for his care of his property , and took his leave ; while the old merchant sank back into his chair , and groaned dismally , because the son of his respected patron was on the road to perdition . 
By every canon of polite fiction , his meditation ought to have been engrossed by some object of romantic devotion ; but in truth they were of a nature wholly mundane and sublunary . 
He had been much exercised of late upon the choice of a career for his future life . 
He liked none of the professions for itself , and had no need to embrace it for support . 
He loved action , and loved study ; was ambitious and fond of applause . 
He had , moreover , enough of the American in his composition never to be happy except when in pursuit of something ; together with a disposition not very rare among young men in New England , though seldom there , or elsewhere , joined to his abounding health and youthful spirits -- a tendency to live for the future , and look at acts and things with an eye to their final issues . 
His nature spurred him into perpetual action ; but his wanderings were over at length ; and he and Meredith sat under the porch of Morton 's house , a few miles from town . 
The features of the latter were swarthy from exposures , while those of his friend were somewhat pale , and had the expression of one insufferably bored . 
And , in reply to his friend 's questions , Morton proceeded to relate such incidents as had befallen him . 
Mortonvisited his cousin , Miss Fanny Euston , a guest , for a few days , at a friend 's house in town . 
`` I need not ask you , Mr. Morton , if you have seen Tennyson 's new poem . '' 
`` May I ask , '' said Morton to his cousin , `` who are your literary favorites ? '' 
`` Do you subscribe to these poetical heresies , Mr. Morton ? '' 
`` What do you choose , Mr. Morton ? '' 
Not that he liked her . 
On the contrary , she had inspired him with a very emphatic aversion ; but being rather a skirmisher on the outposts of society , than enrolled in the main battalion , she was anxious to make the most of the acquaintance she had . 
At length he found himself in a corner from which there was no retreat , while the stately proportions of Mrs. Frederic Goldenberg barred his onward progress . 
Blanche , as usual , was eager for conversation , and , after a few commonplaces , she said , turning up her eyes at him with an arch expression , -- `` I have a piece of news to tell you , Mr. Morton . '' 
`` Upon my word , Mr. Morton , you are worse and worse . 
When a gentleman dances twice with a young lady on class day , and twice at Mrs. Fanfaron 's ball , and joins her in the street besides , has she not a right to feel hurt when he hears with such profound indifference of her coming home after a year 's absence ? '' 
Morton could hardly restrain the extremity of his distaste and impatience . 
And he hastened , first to change the conversation , and then to close it altogether . 
Having escaped from his fair informant , he remained divided between pleasure at the tidings , and annoyance at the manner in which they had been told . 
Whenthe summer heats set in , Meredith , one evening , drove to Morton 's house , and , arrayed in linen and grasscloth , smoked his cigar under his friend 's veranda with as much contentment as the thermometer at ninety would permit . 
The window at his side was that of the room which Morton used as his study , and the table was covered with books . 
He recognized the familiar countenance of Mrs. Primrose , with her daughter , Miss Constance Primrose , and her daughter 's friend , Miss Wallflower . 
`` Upon my word , Mr. Meredith , '' said Mrs. Primrose , `` Mr. Morton has found a singular pair of acquaintances . '' 
`` O , yes , '' said Meredith ; `` those are particular friends of his . '' 
`` And arethey friends of Mr. Morton ? '' 
He met them at the tea table , and thinks them remarkable specimens of natural history . '' 
And she considered within herself whether it would not be best to warn Constance not to encourage any advances which he might in future make . 
On second thoughts , reflecting that his position was unquestionable , his wealth great , and that she had never heard any thing against his morals , she determined to suspend all action for the present , keeping a close watch , meanwhile , on his behavior . 
The latter soon came to the opinion that he had never yet found so interesting a subject of psychological observation as that afforded him in the person of his relative , Miss Euston . 
She seemed to him the most wayward of mortals ; yet in the midst of this lawlessness , generous instincts were constantly betraying themselves , and a certain native grace , a charm of womanhood , followed her wildest caprices . 
At a few miles from New Baden , Morton found himself riding at his cousin 's side , a little behind the rest . 
`` Mr. Morton , '' said the distressed lady , aside to that young gentleman , `` you are a prudent and sober-minded person ; pray use your influence . '' 
The veil sailed away before the wind , and Morton spurred in pursuit , delighted to display his horsemanship before ladies , though it had no other merit than a tenacious seat and a kind of recklessness , the result of an excitable temperament . 
The ground was rough and broken , and studded with rocks and savin bushes , and as he galloped at a breakneck speed down the side of the hill , in a vain attempt to catch the veil flying , even Fanny held her breath . 
He secured his prize , as it caught against a bush , and returned to the road . 
`` You had better not , '' said Morton , who had alighted by the roadside to draw his saddle girth . 
Morton was still on foot , busied with his saddle girth . 
Morton would have laughed , if he had not been too anxious for Fanny . 
`` Get out of the way , Stubb , '' he cried , mounting with all despatch . 
Morton spurred his hack against the barrier , which the beast cleared with difficulty , striking his hind hoofs as he went over . 
After riding a short distance , he discovered Fanny , and saw , to his great relief , that she was regaining control over her horse . 
`` As you please , '' said Morton , knowing himself to be in the position of an angler , whose only chance of managing his salmon is to give it line . 
Morton began to be very anxious , for his companion 's sake , when , a moment after , they came upon a broader track , which intersected the other , and seemed a main thoroughfare of the woodcutters . 
On coming to the inn , Morton commended Fanny to the care of the landlady , an honest New Hampshire woman , remounted without delay , and urged his tired horse to such speed that he reached the hotel before half past nine . 
His arrival relieved the anxieties , or silenced the tattle of the inmates ; and in the morning Fanny 's uncle drove to the inn , and brought back the adventurous damsel to New Baden . 
Morton and his companion sat for a moment in silence . 
In saying this , at least , Morton showed some knowledge of his companion 's character . 
Morton looked at his companion not without a certain sense of victory . 
He saw that he had gained , for the moment at least , an influence over her , and roused her to the expression of feelings to which , perhaps , she had never given utterance before . 
Yet his own mind was any thing but tranquil . 
Something more than admiration was stirring within him . 
He felt impelled to explore farther the proud spirit which had already yielded up to him some of its secrets . 
But he felt that , with her eyes upon him , he could not speak without committing himself farther than he was prepared to do . 
In this dilemma he determined to retreat -- a resolution for which he was entitled to no little credit , if its merit is to be measured by the effort it cost him . 
He rose from his seat . 
When he found himself alone again , he paced his room in no very enviable frame of mind . 
A letter from Boston gave him a pretext ; and bidding farewell to his cousin and her mother , he took the early train homewards . 
The newsboy brought him a paper , and his eyes rested on the columns ; but his thoughts centred on Fanny Euston and his last evening 's conversation with her at the foot of the garden . 
Morton bought one of the latter as an anodyne ; but even `` Orlando Melville , or the Victim of the Press Gang , '' failed to produce the desired soporific effect , and his thoughts soon recurred to their former channel . 
Suddenly a violent concussion , a crashing , thumping , and grating sound , the outcries of a hundred passengers , -- the women screaming , and some of the men not silent , -- with a furious rocking and tossing of the car , ejected every thought but one of his personal safety . 
All sprang to their feet , he among the rest . 
The first distinct impression which his mind received was that of the man in front of him making a flying leap out of the open window of the car , carrying the sash with him -- a dexterous piece of gymnastics , only to be accounted for by the fact that the performer was a distinguished artist of the Grand National Olympic Circus . 
As he looked , the door opened , and a head emerged -- like a triton from the deep , or Banquo 's ghost from a trap door -- white with wrath and fright , and swearing with wonderful volubility . 
After looking for a time at the downfallen tender and the uprooted rails , Morton , from some idle impulse , entered the car which he had lately left . 
It was empty ; and , passing through it , he looked into that immediately behind , which had remained safely upon the rails . 
She was closely veiled , yet there was in her air that indefinable something which told Morton at a glance that she was a lady . 
He stepped to the ground , conjecturing whether or no she had a companion . 
Five minutes after , glancing at the window , he saw the solitary traveller seated in the same position as before , and became convinced that she was unattended . 
The busy and clamorous throng of men alone remained ; and Morton easily conceived that her situation must be an embarrassing one . 
He therefore reëntered the car and approached her . 
So he spoke ; or , rather , so he would have spoken ; but he had scarcely begun when the veiled head was joyfully raised , and the veil was thrown aside , disclosing to his astonished eyes the features of Edith Leslie . 
They walked accordingly in the direction he proposed ; and , as they did so , Morton cast many a stolen glance at the face of his companion . 
It seemed as if Fanny Euston had kindled within him a flame which could not fix itself upon her , yet must needs find fuel somewhere ; and as his eye met that of Edith Leslie , he began to feel that she held a deeper place in his thoughts than he had ever before suspected . 
The woodchopper leaned on his axe , wiped his brows with the tatters of a red handkerchief , and seemed revolving the expediency of communicating the desired information . 
`` Well , '' he returned , after mature reflection , `` if you go fur enough , it 'll take you down to the Diamond Pool . '' 
The sun had just vanished behind the rocky hill on the farther side of the water ; a sea of liquid fire , clouds blazoned in gold and crimson , betokened his recent presence . 
Another sunset glowed in its depths ; rocks , hills , and trees grew downward ; and the kingfisher , as he flitted over it , made a dash at the surface , as if to peck at the adversary bird , which seemed shooting upward to meet him . 
His companion made no reply ; and Morton stood for a moment with his eyes bent upon her face , which , to his enamoured fancy , seemed to reflect the calm beauty of the landscape on which she was gazing . 
He thought of Fanny Euston ; he recalled his last evening 's conversation with her , and felt blindly impelled to give some form of expression to the feeling which began to master him . 
Had an interpreter been needed , Morton 's look and voice must have betrayed , at least , some part of his meaning . 
The color deepened slightly on his companion 's cheek , but she replied , without any further sign of consciousness , -- `` I never knew that you were quite so ardent a votary of nature . 
Here he was interrupted abruptly , for , turning a corner , they came full upon the inn , or hotel , as its sign proclaimed it to be . 
Her trunks and his own had already been placed upon it , when , by the lantern of one of the porters , Morton descried the agitated colonel threading the crowd in anxious search of his daughter . 
He had been waiting nervously since seven o'clock , and , when the train came in , had looked for her in every place but the right one . 
Morton hastened to relieve his fears . 
Leslie asked , as the carriage drove towards his house . 
Having bade good night to his host and his host 's daughter , he passed some hours in dreamy cogitation ; then tried to sleep ; but sleep long kept aloof , the consciousness of being under the same roof with Edith Leslie brought with it so strange a sensation . 
But as delicate health , that grand auxiliary of sentiment , was quite unknown to him , nature prevailed in the end , and at seven the next morning , a servant 's knock wakened him from a deep sleep , a vision of Mount Katahdin , and an imaginary moose hunt . 
Morton , who had some acquaintance with such matters , was a tempting auditor , though he would gladly have exchanged the profuse anecdotes of whitewolf running and deer shooting for a few moments ' conversation with Miss Edith Leslie . 
His cup of nectar , such as it was , was in a few minutes dashed with gall ; for the street door opened without a summons from the bell , a man 's step sounded in the hall , and Horace Vinal came in , with a bundle of papers in his hand . 
thought Morton , as he returned the greeting , but with a much worse grace . 
Morton snatched the opportunity to converse with the person most interesting to him . 
Morton would gladly have come to open rupture , and flung defiance at his rival ; but Vinal was far remote from any wish of the kind . 
Morton remained at the house as long as he in decency could , and then bade them good morning , execrating Vinal as he went down the steps . 
Morton fairly ground his teeth with anger and vexation . 
And the old woman closed the door ; while Morton walked away , without knowing in what direction he was moving . 
His weak heart succumbed : he fell in love off hand ; and within a year after the death of his first wife , Edith 's mother , her picture was taken from the wall , and a second Mrs. Leslie reigned in her stead . 
Some of his lady acquaintance felicitated him that he had espoused an angel , an embodied beatitude not more than half pertaining to this world . 
She breathed courtesies around her as the beneficent royalty of Naples scatters sugar plums among his loving subjects at the carnival , and , on the next day , sends them to prison by the cart load . 
He was a soft-hearted fool , and a fair subject for such oppression . 
Not that his newly-installed mistress -- his mistress , since she made him her slave -- was naturally of an ill temper . 
`` Thank you , Mr. Morton , '' said the doctor , somewhat mollified . 
-- his family , too . '' 
`` I was n't aware he had a family . '' 
`` I mean -- that is to say -- his daughter -- Miss Leslie . '' 
`` Ah , his daughter . 
Good morning , Mr. Morton . '' 
And with a slight twinkle in his eye , Dr. Steele drove off . 
She had come to the city , as he had already judged , on some mission connected with the wants of the invalid , and was to go back to Matherton , with Dr. Steele , in the afternoon . 
Morton , upon this , grew so restless , that he could not refrain from going to the railroad station , a little before the train was to come in . 
And here his worst fear was realized ; for he beheld , slowly pacing along the platform , the hated form of Horace Vinal . 
Morton retreated unseen , went into a neighboring hotel , and seated himself , a little withdrawn from a window , where he could see all that passed . 
He grasped his walking stick , and burned with a feverish longing to break it across his rival 's back . 
He saw Miss Leslie on the next day , and thus added fuel to a flame which already burned high enough . 
In short , he found himself in that most profoundly serious and profoundly ridiculous of all conditions , the condition of being over head and ears in love , -- and his zeal for science was merged utterly in a more engrossing devotion . 
By one means or another , he contrived to keep pace with the course of things at Matherton , and learned from day to day that Mrs. Leslie was worse , -- that she seemed to revive a little , -- that she was on the point of death , -- that she was dead . 
By the time this sad climax was reached , he had been starving a fortnight from the sight of his mistress , having the consolation to know that meantime his rival had made at least four visits to Matherton . 
One morning Morton was pacing the street in an abstracted mood , his looks bent on the bricks , when , chancing to look up , he saw those very eyes which his fancy had been that moment picturing , employed in guiding their owner 's steps over a crossing towards him . 
As Edith Leslie stepped upon the sidewalk , she saw him for the first time . 
He bowed , joined her , spoke a few bungling words of condolence , and walked on at her side . 
After the fashion of those who are peculiarly anxious to appear at their best advantage , he appeared at his worst . 
And when his companion bade him good morning on the steps of her father 's house , she left him in a most unenviable mood , muttering maledictions against himself and his fate , and brought , indeed , to the borders of despair . 
This depression , however , was not long in producing its reaction , under the influence of which , adopting his usual panacea against mental ailments , he mounted his horse , and spurred into the country . 
Here , about sunset , he beheld a horseman , slowly pacing along the road in front . 
On this , he drew rein , and began to look about him for the means of escape ; for in the person of the rider he recognized his classmate Wren , to whose society he was far from partial . 
Morton listened with civil incredulity , and wished his companion at the antipodes . 
`` Good evening , then ; '' and waving his hand again , Wren trotted up the avenue . 
On the next day he discovered that they had actually gone , and that , as Wren had said , Niagara was to be the ultimatum of their tour . 
You can stay here , if you please , with Mr. Morton . '' 
`` I have observed , '' he said , as they came to smoother ground , `` in our excursions yesterday and to-day , that Mrs. Holyoke has not much of your liking for rocks , trees , and water . 
His first feeling had been one of compunction and indignation at himself ; but close upon it followed another , very different -- a sense of mixed suspense and delight . 
What augury might he not draw from the pale cheek and fainting form of his companion ? 
Again and again he was impelled to learn his fate ; but recoiled from casting the die , dreading that his hour was not come . 
Still , though every day more helplessly spell-bound , his mood was not despondent . 
And Morton , much rejoiced at this successful issue of his diplomacy , repaired to his relatives at Steuben ; Holyoke and his wife proceeded homeward ; while Miss Leslie remained to accomplish the visit with her country friend . 
Morton spent a quiet day in the primitive New England village , a place of which boyish association made him fond . 
On the next morning , Miss Leslie was to come to Steuben , with her hostess ; but as there was an abundance of time before the train would appear , he strolled along a quiet road leading back into the country . 
He soon came to an old inn , over whose tottering porch King George 's head might once have swung . 
As ample time remained , Morton continued his walk along the road , his mood in harmony with the brightness of the morning . 
He was in a humor to please himself with trifles . 
A ground squirrel chirruped at him from a crevice of the wall . 
He stood watching the small , shy visage , as it looked out at him . 
This interview over , Morton looked at his watch , saw that it was time to go back towards the village , and began to retrace his steps accordingly . 
He had gone but a few paces , when he saw a countryman , a simple-looking fellow , running at top speed , and in great excitement , up a byway , which led to the railroad , the latter crossing it by a high bridge , at some distance from the station . 
Morton turned to run for the road , bent on stopping the engine , or letting it pass over him . 
But as he turned , a new arrival caught his eye . 
This was the cavalier who had baited his horse at the inn , and who , seeing the excited looks of the two men , had checked his pace , and was looking at them with much curiosity . 
Crazed with agitation , and hardly knowing what he did , Morton leaped towards him , seized his horse , a powerful and high-mettled animal , by the head , and , with a few broken words of explanation , called on him to dismount . 
Morton bore back fiercely on the bit ; the horse plunged and snorted ; the rider clutched the pommel ; Morton took him by the arm , drew him to the ground , mounted at a bound after him , and , as he touched the saddle , struck his whalebone walking stick with all his force over the horse 's flank . 
His discarded rider saw his hoofs twinkling for an instant out of the cloud of dust , and thought he had had a Heaven-directed escape from a madman . 
Morton , with his furious riding , very soon reached this point . 
He could see the station house before him , on the left , and not more than a third of a mile distant . 
Morton pushed through the barberry growth that fringed the road , galloped over the hard pasture , leaped one fence , passed a gap in another , and half way to his goal , found himself and his horse in a quagmire . 
At this moment , straining his eyes towards the cluster of houses , he saw , with agony at his heart , a white puff of vapor rising above the trees beyond . 
Morton knew that it would stop only for a moment , and plied his horse with merciless blows . 
The horse plunged through the mire , -- the mud and water spouting high above his rider 's head , -- gained the firm ground , and bounded forward wild with fright and fury . 
Morton shouted , -- gesticulated , -- still it did not stop , though the passengers seemed to take alarm , for a head was thrust from every window , while the occupants of an open carriage drawn up on the road were bending eagerly towards him . 
Morton wheeled to the left , and urged his horse up the embankment in front of the train . 
With a violent effort , he reached the top . 
The engineer was running against time , and cared for nothing but winning his match . 
He blew the steam whistle ; and as Morton dragged on the curb with desperate strength , the horse reared upright , pawing the air . 
But , as he rose , Morton disengaged his feet , slid over the crupper to the ground , and let go the rein . 
Morton took his stand in the middle of the track , and facing the advancing train , stood immovable as a post . 
Before the breathless Morton could well explain himself , the passengers began to leap out of the cars , and running forward , gathered about him . 
He soon found words to make the case known . 
But one object alone engrossed him . 
He pushed on among the throng of questioning , eager men , mounted the foremost car , and made his way through it , the crowd pushing behind and around him , and plying him with questions , to which , in the confusion and abstraction of his faculties , he gave wild and random answers . 
He looked at every face . 
He crossed the platform into the next car , passed through it , and still could not find her . 
And now a strange feeling came over him , a bitterness , a sense of disappointment , as if his efforts and his pangs had been uncalled for and profitless ; for so intensely had his thoughts been concentred on one object , that he forgot for the moment the hundred men and women whom he had saved from deadly jeopardy . 
Men thronged about him with questions , exclamations , thanks , praises . 
The reaction of his violent emotion produced in him a frame of mind almost childish . 
He was restless to free himself from the crowd . 
`` It 's nothing ; it 's nothing , '' he answered , as fresh praises were showered on him . 
The crowd gave way , and he walked forward past the corner of the building . 
Here , standing on the road , close at hand , he suddenly saw an open carriage , and in it , pale as death , sat Miss Leslie , with her friend , and a boy of twelve , her friend 's brother . 
Going into the room where the passengers were met , he found that the pedler had told the truth ; on which , for the first and last time in his life , he addressed an assemblage of his fellow-citizens . 
He told them that he thanked them for their kind intention ; but that if he had done them a service , he wished for no other recompense than the knowledge of it , and urged them , if they did any thing in the matter , to devote their efforts to gaining the arrest and punishment of the scoundrel who had attempted the mischief . 
He himself very well knew that the praise was undeserved , since he had neither thought nor cared for the objects of his supposed humanity , and , far from acting with presence of mind , had scarcely known what he was about . 
During his visit , the door bell was most obtrusively busy . 
Soon after he left the room , Leslie entered . 
`` Mr. Morton , sir . '' 
Meanwhile , Morton , walking the street in an abstracted mood , overtook unawares his bachelor friend Mr. Benedick Sharpe , jurist , philosopher , and man of letters -- a personage whose ordinary discourse was a singular imbroglio of irony and earnest . 
And , with an ironical twinkle in his eye , Sharpe vanished . 
Thither , pretext or no pretext , he resolved to go . 
He went , accordingly , and made his quarters at the grand hotel of Matherton . 
Itwas a day of cloudless sunshine when Morton set forth for the house at Battle Brook ; but his mind was far from sharing the brightness of the world without . 
The hope that flowed so full and calmly the night before had ebbed and left him dry . 
He was shaken with doubts , misgivings , perturbations . 
He walked his horse up the avenue , till he came within view of the house , a large , square mansion , with a veranda on three sides , a quiet-looking place enough , but in Morton 's eyes priceless as Aladdin 's palace , and sacred as Our Lady 's house at Loretto . 
He gave his horse to the charge of an old Scotchman who was mowing the lawn , rang at the door , asked for Miss Leslie , and was shown into the vacant parlor . 
Suddenly Morton 's heart began to beat ; a light step on the staircase reached his ear , and the rustling of a dress . 
Miss Leslie came in with her usual natural and quiet ease of manner , while he rose to receive her with his heart in his throat . 
And now , when he needed them most , his wits seemed to fail him . 
He tried to converse , and produced nothing but barren commonplace . 
He glanced at his companion . 
`` Be a man , you idiot , '' he apostrophized himself . 
He looked at her again , as she bent over the embroidery with which her fingers were employed . 
`` I must speak out , or die , '' he thought . 
He rested his arm on the table . 
He leaned towards her . 
Heaven knows what nonsense was on his lips , when the sound of a man 's footstep in the hall made him subside into his chair , and do his best to look nonchalant . 
Morton looked at a Landseer on the wall , and gnawed his lip with vexation . 
Leslie took a turn or two about the room , looked out at the window , remarked that it was a hot afternoon , said that the hay crop had been the heaviest ever known , in consequence , he opined , of the joint effects of heat , moisture , and guano ; and was descanting on the ravages committed by the borers on a certain peach tree , when Miss Weston and her sister appeared . 
She does not care for me a straw , '' thought Morton , as he saw the easy cordiality with which Miss Leslie received her guests . 
He was introduced . 
Miss Weston complimented him on the affair of the railroad . 
His reply was cold and constrained . 
As they went into the next room , Morton became conscious of a faint and indefinite something in the face of his mistress , which , he could not tell why , cast a gleam of light into his darkness , and lifted him out of the slough of despond in which he had been floundering for the last half hour . 
A flush of hope dawned on him . 
His constraint passed away , and Miss Weston 's opinion of him was wonderfully revolutionized . 
At length , much to his delight , one of the visitors remarked to the other , that they had better go home before it grew too dark . 
But here a new alarm seized him . 
Might he not be expected to offer them his escort ? 
Terrified at this idea , and oblivious of all gallantry , he made his escape into the garden , impelled -- so he left them to infer -- by a delicate wish to free them from the restraint of his presence . 
Here he walked to and fro behind the hedge , in no small agitation , but with all his faculties on the alert . 
In a quarter of an hour , he heard voices at the hall door ; and approaching behind a cluster of high laurels , saw Edith Leslie accompanying her two friends down the avenue . 
Here he came to an abrupt stop , walked on a pace or two , then turned to his companion with a vehemence which startled her -- `` Miss Leslie , you heard your friend praise me for humanity -- courage -- what not ? 
Here he stopped again abruptly , and looked at his companion in much greater agitation than he would have felt if he had just thrown the dice for life or death . 
She stood for a moment with her eyes fixed on the earth , as if waiting for him to go on , then slowly raised them to his face . 
Morton 's heart sprang to his lips . 
Nature had not been liberal to him in the gift of tongues , but the energy of his emotion supplied the defect . 
Nor were his words thrown away ; for with all its outward calm , the nature that responded to them was earnest and ardent as his own . 
She left the room in a few moments ; and Morton , after a short interval , took his leave , in much alarm lest his intended father-in-law should strain courtesy so far as to follow him . 
Leslie , however , remained quiet ; and he found his mistress waiting for him at the hall door . 
After bidding her good night some eight or ten times , he compelled himself to leave the house , mounted his horse , waved his hand to Edith Leslie , whom he saw watching him from a side window , wheeled , rode down the avenue , turned as he reached the entrance of the trees , and waved his hand again towards the window . 
His heart was full to overflowing , and tears , not of sorrow , ran down his cheeks . 
laughed Morton , as he brushed them away , `` this has not happened to me before these twelve years . '' 
He waved a farewell once more , and spurring his horse , rode down the avenue into the high road . 
It was a soft , warm , starlight evening , and , as he passed along , he heard the voices of the whippoorwills from far and near , while the meadows , the orchards , and the borders of the woods sparkled with fireflies . 
With loosened rein , he suffered his horse to canter lightly forward , and gave himself up to the enchantment of his dreams . 
A thousand times in his after life did he recall the visions of that evening 's ride . 
While riding through the darkest of the shadow , a strange cry startled him -- a shriek so wild and awful that the blood curdled in his veins , and his horse leaped aside with fright . 
There was a rustling among the branches over his head , a flapping and fanning of broad pinions , and the dusky form of some great bird sailed away into the innermost darkness of the woods . 
It was the voice of the great horned owl , rarely found in that part of the country , though he had once or twice before heard its midnight yells in the lonely forests of Maine . 
The cry long rang in his ears . 
It seemed fraught with startling portent , clouded his spirits , and umbered the rose-tint of his reveries . 
He turned his face to the stars , and breathed a prayer for the welfare of his mistress . 
But Fate had not been so propitious ; and to achieve the task which she had forgotten was the zenith of his aspirations . 
He hated him , because he thought that Morton understood him ; because the frankness of the latter 's nature rebuked the secrecy of his own ; and , above all , because he saw in him his most formidable rival in the affections of Edith Leslie . 
His mind , inharmonious and unhappy as nature and himself had jointly made it , had never yet felt a pang so sharp as when , arriving at Matherton , he learned privately from Colonel Leslie the engagement which had passed between Morton and his daughter . 
Miss Leslie 's twice rejected suitor compressed his thin lips in silence ; it was his usual sign of strong emotion . 
Leslie pressed his favorite 's hand , -- he would fain have called him son-in-law , -- and , turning away abruptly , Vinal left the house . 
The man whom he envied and hated had triumphed ; robbed him of fortune , and robbed him of happiness ; happiness of which Morton had had already his full share , and a fortune which would but swell the ample bulk of his possessions . 
In a window recess , aloof from the tailor 's , sat Morton , scarcely conscious of any presence but that of his own thoughts . 
He had found a philosopher 's stone ; and through the rest of his life , this comfortless reading room of the Matherton Hotel , this sanctuary of dry and weary Yankeedom , was linked in his memory with dreams of golden brightness . 
Till this moment , Morton had remained absorbed , shut in from the outer world ; but now an influence , which believers may call magnetism , made him look up and bend forward from the recess to see who the sudden stranger might be . 
Morton was disposed to be on good terms with all the world , and more especially with his defeated rival . 
`` Good morning , Vinal , '' he said , holding out his hand , which Vinal took , his cold , thin fingers trembling in the warm grasp of Morton . 
Morton looked after him . 
He had no doubt that Vinal had heard of his misfortune ; and the first sense of pain which , since the evening before last , the successful lover had felt , now crossed his mind . 
`` Yourproposal flatters me , Mr. Morton ; and , in many points of view , the connection you offer would be a desirable one , -- a very desirable one . 
`` Well , Mr. Morton , I hear -- that is , I have learned -- that , like other young men of leisure , you have had your bonnes fortunes , and winged other game than partridges and woodcock . '' 
Morton looked at him in surprise . 
A few words from Morton sufficed to carry conviction to the frank-hearted auditor , who , feeling that , at least as regarded its worst features , his charge must be groundless , hastened to make the amende . 
`` Your word is enough , Mr. Morton , and I owe you an apology for imagining that you could be false or heartless in any connection whatever . 
Leslie had told Vinal the day before that he would despatch Morton on his travels , intimating a hope that a long separation might bring about a change in his daughter 's feelings . 
Morton saw nothing for it but acquiescence ; to which , indeed , Miss Leslie urged him , confiding in the strength of his attachment , and happy to reconcile adverse duties and inclinations at any price . 
Meanwhile , he had not the smallest suspicion of the subtle trick which his rival had played him . 
he thought ; `` one must keep the beaten track , look demure , and talk virtue , or , in one shape or another , it will be the worse for him . '' 
Then loathed he in his native land to dwell . 
Meanwhile , Morton made the best of a six weeks ' reprieve ; and hampered as he was by the injunction of secrecy , and the precautions which it demanded , he crowded the short interval with half a lifetime of mixed pleasure and pain , expectation and anxiety . 
It was past but too quickly ; in three days more he must set sail . 
Walking the street in a rueful mood , he met his classmate , Chester , who , having made the tour of Europe , had lost his obsolete ways , and grown backward into a man of the present world . 
He took it up . 
He was but a few rods from the door , when a quick step came behind him . 
Morton turned , and saw his classmate , Rosny . 
As Rosny took up his glass , Morton observed a large old seal ring on his finger . 
But I tell you , colonel , '' -- and a shade of something like disappointment passed over his face , -- `` if a man wants the people 's votes , it 's fifty to one that he 's got to sink himself lower than the gutter before he gets them . '' 
`` Excuse me a moment , Dick , '' said Morton , suddenly leaping from his seat , as a lady passed the window . 
He ran out of the hotel , and walked at his best pace in pursuit of Fanny Euston , who , on her part , was walking with an earnest air , like one whose thoughts were engaged with some engrossing subject . 
He reached her side , and made a movement to accost her ; but she seemed unconscious of his presence . 
She turned and recognized him , but her smile of recognition was a very mournful one . 
He pressed her hand in silent sympathy . 
`` It grieves me , Fanny , '' he said , after a moment , `` to part from you under such a cloud . '' 
The hour to set sail was near ; he should have been on board ; but still he lingered with Edith Leslie . 
Morton forced himself away ; his hand was on the door , but his heart failed him , and he turned back again . 
The smooth and bright crusting with which habit and training had iced over the warm nature of Edith Leslie was broken and swept away ; and as Morton seized her hands , she disengaged herself , and , throwing herself on his neck , sobbed convulsively . 
Morton pressed her to his heart , and buried his face in her clustering tresses ; then , breaking from her , ran blindly from the house . 
He repaired to the house of Meredith , who met him at the door . 
Meredith , in truth , was greatly amazed at this betrayal of a weakness of which , long and closely as he had known his companion , he had never suspected him . 
And , as he spoke , the carriage stopped at the pier . 
Morton stood at the ship 's stern , gazing back longingly towards his native rocks . 
Though far from inclining to echo those set terms of praise which the progeny of the Puritans are fond of lavishing on themselves , he felt himself bound with enduring cords to the woods and hills of New England , the scene of his boyish aspirations , of his pure ambition , and his devoted love ; and while the crags of Gloucester faded from his sight , his eyes were dimmed as he turned them towards those rugged shores . 
`` Well , young man , seems to me you look a leetle kind o ' streak-ed at the idee of quitting home , '' said a husky voice at his elbow . 
Morton turned , and saw a small man , with a meagre , hatchet face , and a huge pair of black whiskers hedging round a countenance so dead and pallid that one could see at a glance that he was in a consumption . 
He had an eye hard as a flint , one that might have faced a Gorgon without risk . 
Morton regarded him with an expression which told him , as plainly as words , to go about his business ; but he might as well have tried to look an image of brass out of countenance . 
Morton replied by an inarticulate sound , which the other might interpret as he pleased . 
He chose to interpret it in the affirmative . 
He went down to the cabin , Morton 's eye following him in pity and disgust . 
Here he arrived late one afternoon ; and taking his seat at the table d'hôteof Meurice 's Hotel , he presently discovered among the guests the familiar profile of Vinal , who was just returned from a flying tour through the provinces . 
Vinal seemed not to see him ; but at the close of the dinner , Morton came behind his chair and spoke to him . 
At his side sat a young man , whose face Morton remembered to have seen before . 
He was interrupted by the advent of the small man who had accosted Morton in the steamer , and had since favored him with his company from Liverpool to Paris . 
Well , John , he had a little money laid up ; so he thought he 'd just come out and see a bit of the world . 
John and he wor n't on good terms ; -- it was about a gal , John says . 
` John , ' says he , ` I 've got relations out to Vienny , where I come from ; first-rate , genteel folks ; now , ' says he , ` perhaps you might like me to make you acquainted with 'em . 
So the German gives him some letters ; and , sure enough , they treated him very civil ; but the very next morning , before he was out of bed , up comes the police , and carries him off to jail ; and that , I guess , would have been about the last we 'd ever have seen of John Wilkins , if , by the slimmest ghost of a chance , he had n't got word to our minister , and the minister blowed out so hard about it , that they just let John go , and said they was very sorry , and it was all a mistake , but he 'd better make tracks out of Austria in double quick time , because if he did n't , they did n't know as there was any body there would undertake to be responsible for what might happen . '' 
`` Was n't he an Amerikin ? '' 
pursued the small man , `` and did n't he have an Amerikin passport in his pocket ? 
Observing Vinal , whom he had seen before , he asked if he knew where Mr. Morton was . 
`` No , sir , they are all Mr. Morton 's . '' 
`` O , Mr. Morton 's ! 
I do n't know where you will find him , '' and he gave back the letters to the messenger , who presently left the room . 
His hat and gloves lay on the table at his side ; near them were three or four sealed letters ; another -- Vinal well knew from whom -- was open in his hands ; and as he stood bending over it , there was a sunlight in the eye of the successful lover which shot deadly envy into the breast of Vinal . 
Morton had just before sent a servant for a carriage , to drive to the opera , and was waiting wrapped in his cloak , on the steps outside the door . 
thought Morton , as the others passed without observing him . 
Morton , he knew , was to leave Paris on the next morning . 
At about three in the afternoon , he discovered his rival sauntering along an avenue in the garden of the Tuileries ; and walking up behind , he joined him . 
A thrill shot through Vinal 's nerves ; but the unsuspecting Morton almost instantly relieved his terror . 
pursued Vinal , looking at his watch . 
Earlythe next morning , Morton was writing in his room , when Vinal came in . 
He shook hands with Morton , and , pressing his haggard cheek , as if to stifle the pain , left the room . 
With a new letter from Edith Leslie before him , Morton saw the world in rose tint . 
Happiness blinded him , and he was in no mood to doubt of human nature . 
He blamed himself for his harsh opinions of Vinal . 
They all spoke of Morton as interested in a common object with the person addressed ; but , with this exception , there was nothing in them which drew his attention , especially as they were in German , a language with which he was not very familiar . 
As for the circumstance of their having been given at all to a person whom the writer had never seen , Morton accounted for it on the score of the good natured professor 's desire to oblige his valued friend Vinal . 
He proved , indeed , a storehouse of information , discoursing of the people , the country , and even the government , with little reserve , and an admirable copiousness and minuteness of knowledge . 
At length he asked Morton if he had any acquaintance in Austria . 
Morton mentioned the names of the men he had seen . 
The German studied his face for a moment , and then said , -- `` You say that a friend of yours gave you letters from Henry Speyer to the men you just named ? '' 
He had resolved to go no farther without taking measures to secure his own safety ; and a day or two , he hoped , would place him out of the reach of danger . 
Meanwhile , what with his horror at the villany which had duped him , his anger with himself at being duped , and the consciousness that the hundred-handed despotism of Austria might at any moment close its gripe upon him , the condition of his mind was far from enviable . 
As he surveyed the noisy groups around him , three men appeared at the door . 
Morton sipped his wine , and watched them uneasily out of the corner of his eye . 
The conductor looked towards him significantly ; the tall man inclined his head , as a token that he understood the sign . 
The Austrian Briareus had clutched him at last . 
The commissioner spoke in German to the corporal of the guard , who took Morton into custody , and was leading him from the room . 
The corporal led his prisoner along the corridor , which had grown ruefully familiar to Morton 's eye ; but instead of following the way which led to the latter 's cell , he turned into a much wider and more commodious passage . 
Here , at his open door , stood Padre Luca , confessing priest of the castle . 
Corporal Max Kubitski , with a face unperturbed as a block , unfettered Morton 's wrists , left him with the confessor , and withdrew , placing a soldier on guard at the door without . 
`` My son , '' he began ; and here his voice faltered . 
`` I trust , '' he said , finding his tongue again , `` that you are a faithful child of our holy mother , the church , and that the heresies and infidelities of these times -- '' `` Father , '' said Morton , willingly adopting the filial address to the kind-hearted priest , `` I am a Protestant . 
The priest 's face betrayed his discomposure . 
Morton smiled faintly , and shook his head . 
And as a flood of recollection swept over him , his heart for a moment was sick with anguish . 
There was so much of earnestness and sincerity in his words , that Morton felt nothing but gratitude as he answered , -- `` It would be no better than a mockery , if I should do as you wish . 
I can not -- '' Here a clear , deep voice from the adjacent room interrupted him . 
`` I am ready , '' answered Morton , in a voice firm as that which summoned him . 
He returned to the priest 's apartment , and in the doorway stood the athletic corporal , like the statue of a modern Mars . 
He was pushing past the corporal , when Morton gently checked him . 
The corporal took him into custody ; and , with three soldiers before and three behind , he moved towards his place of execution . 
He seemed to himself like one not fully awake ; the stern reality would not come home to his thoughts , until , as he was mounting a flight of steps leading to the rampart , a vivid remembrance glowed upon him of that summer evening when , in her father 's garden , Edith Leslie had accepted his love . 
Morton turned his head slowly , and looked at him for an instant in silence . 
Morton stood with compressed lips , and every nerve at its tension , in instant expectation of the volley ; already , in fancy , he felt the bullets plunging through his breast ; but not a muscle flinched , and he fronted the deadly muzzles with an unblenching eye . 
The Bohemians recovered their muskets , and the bewildered Morton was once more in custody of the corporal , who led him , guarded as before , back towards his cell . 
Faint and heartsick , Morton scarcely knew what was passing , till he was thrust in at his narrow door . 
The jailer was there , but the corporal entered also , to aid in taking the handcuffs from his wrists . 
He stood more than six feet high , and Morton , who loved to look upon a man , had often , even in his distress , admired his martial bearing and the powerful symmetry of his frame . 
His face , too , was singularly fine in its way , and though the discipline of long habit usually banished from it any distinct expression , yet the cast of the features , and the manly curve of the lip , which the thick brown mustache could not wholly hide , seemed to augur a brave , generous , and loyal nature . 
More stupefied than cheered at being snatched , as he supposed , from the jaws of death , Morton stood passive while his hands were released . 
The jailer left him for a moment , and crossed over to the opposite corner of the cell . 
His back was turned as he did so . 
At that instant , Morton felt a warm breath at his ear , and heard whispered in a barbarous accent , -- `` Courage , mon ami ! 
He turned ; but the martial visage of the corporal was unmoved as bronze ; and , in a moment more , the iron door clanged behind him as he disappeared . 
Once he was sure that he heard the tones of his voice in the passage without his cell ; but weeks passed , months passed , and he did not see him again . 
He longed to die . 
His longing at length seemed near its accomplishment . 
A raging fever seized him , and for days he lay delirious , balanced on the brink of death . 
But his constitution endured the shock ; and late one night he lay on his pallet , exhausted , worn to a skeleton , yet fully conscious of his situation . 
The locks clashed , the hinges jarred , and a physician of the prison , a bulky German , stood at his side . 
He felt his patient 's pulse . 
echoed the German , a laugh gurgling within him , like the first symptom of an earthquake ; `` all men die , but this sickness will never kill you . 
Morton turned to the wall , and cursed the hour when he was born . 
The German gave a prescription to his attendant ; the locks clashed again behind him , and Morton was left alone with his misery . 
The crisis of his disorder was past ; but its effects were heavy upon him , and his mind shared the deep exhaustion of his body . 
Perilous thoughts rose upon him , spectral and hollow-eyed . 
He repelled the thought ; but it returned . 
He repelled it again , but still it returned . 
The insidious demon was again and again at his ear , stealing back with a noiseless gliding , smoothly commending her poison to his lips , soothing his worn spirit as the vampire fans its slumbering victim with its wings . 
But his better nature , not without a higher appeal , fortified itself against her , and struggled to hold its ground . 
When the French besieged Saragossa ; when her walls crumbled before their batteries ; when , day by day , through secret mine or open assault , foot by foot , they won their way inward towards her heart ; when treason within aided force without , and famine and pestilence leagued against her , -- still her undespairing children refused to yield . 
Sick men dragged themselves to the barricades , women and boys pointed the cannon , and her heroic banner still floated above the wreck . 
Thus , spent with disease , gnawed with pertinacious miseries , assailed by black memories of the past , and blacker forebodings of the future , did Morton maintain his weary battle with despair . 
The influences about him were any thing but favorable to a quick convalescence , and it was months before he was himself again . 
Even then , though his health seemed confirmed , a deeper cloud remained upon his spirits : his dungeon seemed more dark and gloomy , his prospects more desperate . 
One day he paced his cell in a mood of more than usual depression . 
He had been allowed to walk on the rampart for half an hour daily . 
The scene recalled kindred scenes at home ; and when he was led back to his cell , when the heavy door clashed and the bolts grated upon him , he leaned his forehead on his hand , and stood in fancy again among the mountains of New England , with all their associations of health , freedom , and golden hopes . 
He was , by birth , a German peasant , stupid and brutish enough ; but , his calling considered , he might have been worse , and , in the lack of better company , Morton had diligently cultivated his acquaintance . 
On this occasion he was more than commonly dogged and impenetrable ; and , on being taken to task for some neglect or malperformance of his functions , he made no manner of reply , by word , look , or gesture . 
Being again upbraided , he turned for a moment towards the prisoner a face as expressive as a block of pudding stone , and then sullenly continued his work as before . 
Morton laughed , partly in vexation , and resumed his walk , of just three paces , to and fro , the length of his cell . 
He followed the jailer with his eye , as the latter closed the door . 
The voice was different from that to which Morton had been accustomed ; and , as he gave the usual answer , he looked towards the opening . 
Here he saw a full , clear , blue eye , with a brown eyebrow , very well formed ; altogether a different eye from that which had formerly presented itself , -- a contracted , blackish , or mud-colored organ , furrowed round about with the wrinkles called `` crow 's feet ; '' -- altogether a mean and vulgar-looking eye , belonging , indeed , to a rugged old soldier , whose skull might safely have been warranted sabre-proof . 
Morton looked at the eye , and the eye looked at him , with great intentness , seemingly , for some twenty seconds . 
Morton thought little more of the matter , but busied himself with his usual masculine employment of stocking knitting , till seven in the evening , when the visitor came on his second round , and the same voice challenged him through the opening . 
Morton perplexed himself greatly with conjectures about this incident , and had half persuaded himself that the whole was a cheat of the fancy ; when , on the next morning , as he was led back , under a guard , from his walk on the rampart , he saw , on entering a long gallery of the prison , a tall man approaching from the farther end . 
He recognized him at once . 
In vain he tried to reason down the new hope that , in spite of himself , this meeting kindled . 
Of one thing he was sure ; the corporal 's eye was the eye that looked in upon him through the hole in the door ; and he felt assured , moreover , that , from whatever cause , the corporal inclined to befriend him . 
He waited , in great expectancy and some agitation , for the next visit ; and at the stated hour , the outer door was opened , and the eye appeared . 
Morton , as he replied to the challenge , made a gesture of friendly recognition . 
The moustached lips whence the whisper issued were withdrawn from the opening , and Morton was left to his reflections . 
To have a friend near him , however humble , was much , and the hope , slender as it seemed , that this friend might aid him , filled him with a feverish excitement . 
At the next appearance of the eye , Morton , in a few rapid words , expressed his gratitude ; adding that if the corporal would help him to escape , and go with him to America , he would make him rich for life . 
His interest was inflamed to enthusiasm , when , being ordered to guard Morton to his execution , he saw the calmness with which the latter faced his expected fate . 
Indeed , his soldier heart was moved so deeply , that in the flush of the moment he conceived the idea of helping Morton to escape , and going with him to the land of promise . 
It was an idea more easily conceived than executed ; and before he could find an opportunity , his corps was removed from the castle , and sent on duty elsewhere . 
In this state of his mind , the duty of visitor was assigned to him , thus bringing him in contact with Morton , reviving his half-forgotten feeling , and , at the same time , promising him an opportunity to carry his former scheme into effect . 
To this time , Morton had borne his troubles with as much philosophy as could reasonably have been expected ; but now that something like a tangible hope began to open on him , the excitement became intense . 
He waited the daily visits of the soldier with a painful eagerness and suspense . 
Illness and long confinement had wrought upon Morton 's system in a manner which made it doubly difficult to preserve the coolness which the emergency demanded ; but he summoned his utmost resolution to meet this crisis of his fate . 
The jailer was nowise addicted to conversation ; and how to engage him in it , was a problem of some difficulty . 
There was only one topic on which Morton had ever seen him at all animated . 
This was the battle of Wagram , in which , in his youth , he had taken part , and where he had received a sabre cut , which had left a ghastly blue scar across his cheek . 
In dilating on this momentous passage of his life , the old German would sometimes be roused into a great excitement ; and Morton had often amused himself with trying to comprehend the jargon which he poured out , in thick gobbling tones , about cannonading and charging , sabres and bombshells , pointing continually at his scar , and laboring to impress his hearer with the conviction , immovably fixed in his own mind , that he , Jacob , was one of the chief heroes of the day . 
At his usual hour , about the middle of the afternoon , Jacob appeared . 
The jailer turned and stared at him for a moment with open eyes and mouth . 
Then , as his wrath slowly mounted , he began to pour forth a flood of denial , mixed with invective against his assailant , appealing to his scar as proof positive of his valor . 
`` A sabre never made that scar , '' said Morton , as the other paused in his eloquence . 
At this Jacob 's rage seemed to choke his utterance ; and Morton thought he would attack him bodily , as he stood before him , shaking his fists , and stamping on the pavement . 
They accordingly took off the jailer 's outer garments , which Morton substituted for his own , drawing the deepvisored cap over his eyes . 
Morton , in his jailer 's dress , went out , and , looking back , reported that the coast was clear . 
Max began to descend , and Morton followed at his heels . 
The fresh wind , the open view , the unwonted sense of treading mother earth , wrought on him strangely ; not , as on the wrestler of old , to nerve him with renewed force . 
Towards this , therefore , he walked , with an air of great nonchalance , Morton following , his heart in his throat . 
Morton gave it one look , prayed it might be the last , and motioned his companion forward again . 
The sense came upon him that his fate was now in his own hands ; the resolve that he would never be taken alive . 
He called Max to stop . 
It seemed to Morton as if time and space were done away ; as if the prison were a dream ; and as if , once more on some college ramble , he were seated by a camp fire in the familiar forests of America . 
As Morton looked on his manly face , and thought of the boundless debt he owed him , his heart warmed towards him , and he poured forth his gratitude as well as he could , in the patchwork of languages which Max himself had used as his medium of communication . 
The exchange made , he signed to the man to give him the hatchet which he carried ; but the boor hesitated , scowling very sullenly . 
Body and mind , he was formed for hardship , and toils which would have broken a weaker frame had nerved and strengthened his . 
Morton 's courage , unlike that of his companion , was the result more of his mental habits than of a native constitutional intrepidity , and was therefore much less subject to the changes of his bodily condition . 
He had proved Max , and knew him to be brave as he was warm and true-hearted ; but the corporal 's valor , like that of Homer 's heroes , was best displayed on a full stomach . 
Having dulled the edge of his appetite , he began to grow uneasy at the landlord 's long absence . 
he exclaimed , recoiling , his face ghastly with dismay . 
Morton followed in time to escape two or three bayonet thrusts which were made after him . 
Breathless and half spent , he was clinging to a sapling on the edge of a steep pitch of the hill . 
One of the soldiers saw him . 
A musket shot rang from below , the hollow hum of the ball passing high above his head . 
Morton kneeled by his side ; turned him on his back ; lifted him by main strength into a sitting posture . 
Both his hands were clutched full of grass and earth . 
It was a change like this that he saw in the eyes of Max . 
Morton hurled the pistol at his face . 
The iron barrel clashed against his teeth , and sent him reeling backward , bleeding and half stunned . 
Griping his hatchet , his best remaining friend , Morton turned for the woods , gained them at three bounds , and tore through the cover like a hunted wolf . 
Over rocks , among trees , through thickets and brambles , he struggled and clambered on , seeking safety , like the Rocky Mountain goat , in the rudest and wildest refuge . 
Morton threw himself on the ground , and commended his desperate fortunes to the God of the waste and the mountain . 
Thither Morton made his way ; but not by so smooth an access . 
Ignorant of the country , and guided chiefly by the sun , he had pushed blindly forward by paths best known to the chamois and those who chase them . 
His best hope had been to meet some of his travelling countrymen , from whom he could gain help . 
To this end he had once and again approached the highways , and as often some real or seeming danger had driven him back to the mountains . 
For a day or more , the food he had taken from the inn served to support him . 
He had flung away Max 's pistol , but still had his own . 
It served him to kindle a fire ; and by loading it with gravel , in place of shot , he contrived to kill thrushes and other small birds . 
Their nests , too , full at this time of eggs and young , supplied a meagre resource ; and once , being hard pressed , he made a Gallic banquet on a party of serenaders who were croaking and trilling their evening concert about the edge of a shallow pool . 
Upon fare like this , he wandered on , till he stumbled upon the valley of Ferrera . 
The mind of the latter shared , in some sort , the changes of his outer man . 
Proscribed and hunted , starved into fierceness , his best friend murdered at his side , his mood was , to say the least , none of the most benign . 
But , as he toiled on his way , he turned aside to rest in a sunny nook , deep sheltered among rocks . 
Here , where the fresh grass tempted him , and where , from a jutting crag , the water , trickling from some hidden spring , fell in rapid drops , tinkling into a pool below , and , as they fell , flashing in the sun like a string of diamonds , -- here , in this quiet nook , he sat down ; and , as he did so , he saw by his side , close nestled in the young grass , a little family of white and purple blossoms . 
As he looked , there came in upon him such a surge of recollection , such a memory of New England gardens , such a vision of loved faces , and , chief before them all , the face he best loved , such an awakening of every tender thought that had once possessed him , and all in such overpowering contrast with his present misery , that the famished outlaw burst into a flood of tears . 
Morton , in his wandering , had the good luck to kill a straggling sheep ; and being twice as hungry as the Honorable Charles Augustus Murray , it may be set down largely to his credit , if he did not follow that gentleman 's example . 
Morton had woodcraft enough to turn the fleece into a receptacle for carrying such parts of the flesh as best answered his purposes ; and thus he was well provisioned for several days . 
After various roamings , by night and by day , he came upon a broad road , clearly one of the great alpine passes . 
Which of them he could not tell . 
He would have given the world to learn ; for he knew nothing of his whereabouts , and thought himself still in Tyrol , or , at the best , in Bormio . 
His attempts to gain information from the peasants had always failed , and , in one or two instances , had seemed to threaten serious consequences . 
Though brave enough in the front of an open danger , the secret toils which had been about him so long had taught him to shrink from the face of man . 
Morton watched her for a time , then , taking heart of grace , walked towards her from his lurking-place , holding between his fingers , as a talisman , a piece of silver , part of the scanty trust which Max had left him . 
Thus far successful , Morton next tried to learn something touching the country and the routes ; but here his failure was signal . 
Where food and drink were the topics in hand , and especially when her wits were quickened by the sight of silver , she had contrived to understand him ; but with matters more abstruse her faculties had never been trained to grapple . 
to all his questions indiscriminately . 
With this he had to content himself . 
He bade her `` addio , '' received a friendly nod and grin in return , and went on his way , much less bitter against mankind than he had been ten minutes before . 
By my hand , I had thought to have strucken him with a cudgel ; and yet my mind gave me his clothes made a false report of him . 
By day , he found some safe retreat where he could rest and sleep in tolerable ease and warmth . 
His night progress was , for the most part , on a broad , clear road , very different from that rugged path by the Cardinel , where , some forty-seven years before , the avalanches cut through Macdonald 's columns , and swept men and horses to bottomless ruin . 
His bread and bacon had given out , and the phantom of an Austrian sbirrorode him like a nightmare . 
Mustering his best recollections of geography , he came to the belief that he was either on the Lake of Como , or , as seemed to him much more likely , on the lake farther eastward , that of Garda . 
Morton took a coin from his pocket , walked forth from his hiding-place , and was approaching , still unnoticed , when he was startled by the sound of a horse 's tread , on the road beyond the house . 
The young man rode on , passing Morton , as he stood by the roadside . 
He walked after the retiring horseman , and when an angle of the road concealed him from the inn , quickened his pace almost to a run . 
Morton soon gained sight of him again , and kept him in view for about a mile , when he saw him enter the gateway belonging to a small villa , between the road and the water . 
At length he saw a female domestic , evidently Italian , passing through the shrubbery before the house , and disappearing behind it . 
In a few minutes more , a solemn personage appeared at the door , whom he would have known at a mile 's distance for an old English servant . 
He stood looking with great gravity out upon the grounds . 
Morton approached , and accosting him in Italian , asked to see his master . 
Indeed , in his intercourse with the natives , he had seen occasion for one phrase alone , and that a somewhat pithy and repellant one , -- Andate al diavolo . 
He glared with supreme and savage scorn on the tatterdemalion stranger , and uttered his talismanic words , -- `` Andarty al devillio ! '' 
Morton changed his tactics ; and , looking fixedly at the human mastiff , said in English , -- `` Go to your master , sir , and tell him that I wish to speak with him . '' 
Morton in his absence opened several books which lay upon a table ; and in one of them he saw , pencilled on the fly leaf , the name of the owner , Robert Wentworth . 
The pen , ink , and paper arriving , he wrote as follows , John meanwhile keeping a vigilant guard over him : -- Sir : I am a native of the United States , who , for the past four years , have been a prisoner in the Castle of Ehrenberg , confined for no offence , political or otherwise , but on a groundless suspicion . 
Morton followed him to the door of a small room looking upon the lake . 
Morton entered , inclining his head slightly . 
The other returned his salutation , looked at him for an instant without speaking , and then , coming forward , gave him his hand , and bade him welcome with the utmost frankness . 
Astonished , and half overcome , Morton could only stammer his acknowledgments for such a reception of one who came with no passport but his own word . 
Morton gave a short outline of his story , to which his host listened with unequivocal signs of interest . 
If you will go with John , he will help you to get rid of that villanous disguise . '' 
Morton followed the old man into an adjoining room , where he found a bath , a suit of clothes , and the various appliances of the toilet prepared for him . 
And here he was left alone to indulge his reflections and revolutionize his outward man . 
Meanwhile Wentworth sat musing by the window : `` His face haunts me ; and yet , for my life , I can not remember where I have seen him before . 
I would stake all on his truth and honor . 
It seemed as if , in casting off his squalid livery of misery and peril , a burden of care had fallen with it ; as if the sullen cloud that had brooded over him so long had been pierced at length by a gladdening beam of sunlight , and the sombre landscape were smiling again with pristine light and promise . 
His buoyant and defiant spirit resumed its native tone ; and a strange confidence sprang up within him , as if a desperate crisis of his destiny had been safely passed . 
He seated himself at the table , and addressed himself to the repast provided for him with the keenness of a mountain trapper , while his entertainer played with his knife and fork to keep him in countenance . 
Morton shook his head . 
Morton paused a moment in doubt ; then sprang to his feet with a joyful exclamation , -- `` The prairies ! 
There was a change , as he spoke , in his voice and manner , so marked that Morton forbore to pursue the subject farther . 
He studied the picture in silence . 
It was a young and beautiful face , delicate , yet full of fire ; and by some subtilty of his craft , the artist had given to the eyes an expression which reminded him of the restless glances which he had seen a caged falcon at the Garden of Plants cast upwards at the sky , into which he was debarred from soaring . 
Morton warmly expressed his gratitude , but protested against Wentworth 's undertaking the journey on his account . 
They conversed for an hour , when Morton withdrew to adjust his new disguise . 
Wentworth was in the coupé , and on the top sat Morton , as his servant . 
Morton reported himself to the American consul , and told his story . 
Escaping as soon as he could from this demonstration , Morton bade his fervid countrymen good morning , and went out with Wentworth , who introduced him to his banker . 
He learned from the consul that a merchant brig was in port , nearly ready to sail for home , and gladly took passage in her . 
Wentworth smiled as Morton tried to express his gratitude . 
Morton went with him past the gates , and , with a heavy heart , watched him on his way northward . 
The cliffs behind Gibraltar came in sight at last , and a fresh levanter blew her out like an arrow upon the Atlantic . 
Morton called a boat alongside , embarked his luggage , and went on shore . 
And , in spite of that depression which follows long and deep excitement , in spite of the anxieties that engrossed him , he felt a thrill of delight as his foot pressed American soil . 
The thought of Edith Leslie had been so long the solace of his confinement , that it seemed to have grown into a part of himself ; at all events , now that his doubts were on the verge of decision , for good or evil , it drove every other thought from his mind . 
Reaching his hotel , he found that he could not set out for Boston till the afternoon ; and to get rid of the interval , he turned over the Boston newspapers in the reading room , searching for the mention of any familiar names . 
Here he was more successful than he cared to be ; for he presently discovered the name of Horace Vinal , figuring in the list of directors of a joint stock company . 
And leaving the hotel , he walked up the crowded sidewalk of Broadway , in a mood any thing but tranquil . 
Hehad not gone far , when he became aware of a footstep closely following him . 
He was about to look back , when a little man passed before him , glancing furtively in his face with a ludicrous expression of doubt , amazement , and curiosity . 
`` Charley , '' he exclaimed , `` how do you do ? '' 
Shingles , who had a taste for the horrible , took the assertion literally , and dilated his eyes like an owl on the lookout for a mouse . 
`` By Jove , '' exclaimed Shingles , whose amazement was still strong upon him , `` I was never so much astonished in my life as when I saw you just now . 
Morton briefly recounted his imprisonment and escape , interrupted by the wondering ejaculations of his auditor . 
The tattle of his rustic companion was become intolerable to Morton . 
He had received his stab , and wished to hear no more . 
In a few minutes , he rose from the table . 
Mortonwalked down Broadway at a rapid pace , entered his hotel , mounted to his room , seated himself , rested his forehead on his hand , and , with fixed eyes and compressed lips , remained in this position for some minutes , motionless as if carved out of oak . 
Then , rising , he paced the room , buried his face in his hands , and groaned with irrepressible anguish . 
This is his card , sir . '' 
Morton looked at the card , and read the name of his classmate Rosny . 
-- No , -- here , '' -- as the servant was retreating along the passage , -- `` where is he ? '' 
`` Tell him I will come down in a moment . '' 
Morton adjusted his dress , strove to banish from his features all traces of the emotion which had just overwhelmed him , went down stairs , and met Rosny with an air of as much cordiality as if there were nothing in his mind but the pleasure of seeing an old friend . 
Rosny , his first welcome over , surveyed him from head to foot . 
`` Youhave changed your outward man , too , since I saw you last , '' said Morton , looking at his companion 's costume , which consisted of a gray volunteer uniform . 
And , with his usual celerity of motion , Rosny left the hotel . 
Morton slowly remounted to his room , locked the door this time , to keep out intruders , seated himself , and gave himself up to his dark and morbid reveries . 
Morton rose abruptly , went to the window , and stood looking out with a fixed gaze , wholly unconscious of what was before him . 
In a moment he turned again , and there was a wild and deadly light in his eyes . 
A thought had struck him , shooting an electric life through all his veins , and kindling him into a kind of fierce ecstasy . 
He would go to Vinal , charge him with his perfidy , challenge him , and put him to death . 
He paced the room in great disorder . 
A resistless power seemed to have seized upon him , sweeping him forward with the force of a torrent . 
He clinched his teeth and breathed deeply . 
The thought of action and of vengeance lighted up his perturbed and gloomy mind as the baleful glare of a conflagration lights up a stormy midnight . 
Suddenly he stopped , seated himself again , and remained for some minutes in violent mental conflict . 
`` I thank God , '' he murmured at length , apostrophizing his enemy , `` that you were not just now within my reach . 
He walked the room again , calmly enough , but in great dejection . 
`` It may be , '' he thought , `` that I am not his only victim . 
He looked from the window upon the keen and busy crowds passing below in unbroken streams , to and from their places of business ; and his mind tinged them with its own moody coloring . 
In such distempered reflections he passed some time . 
Even in the darkest passages of his imprisonment , his mind had scarcely been shaken so far from its habitual poise . 
Growing weary at length of solitude , he went out of the house ; and , avoiding the great thoroughfares , where he might perhaps meet an acquaintance , he threaded at a rapid pace those meaner streets and lanes , where even the best balanced mind may find abundant food for gloomy meditation . 
From time to time , as the image of his enemy rose before him , the desire for vengeance came upon him afresh , like a fever fit . 
He burned to seize Vinal by the throat , and , at least , force him to unmask his iniquity to the world . 
As he was passing down Water Street , he recollected , with some vexation , that Rosny had promised to call for him at four o'clock , and retraced his steps to the hotel , where , true to the minute , that punctual adventurer presently appeared . 
Morton , over his companion 's claret , was obliged to recount the circumstances of his imprisonment . 
Rosny , on his part , gave an outline of his own fortunes since they had last met . 
He had been once or twice on the point of very considerable success , but his vaulting ambition had always overleaped itself , and by too great eagerness and grasping at too much , he had repeatedly failed of his prize , only , however , to rally after every reverse with undiminished confidence and spirit . 
Such , at least , were the conclusions which Morton drew from his companion 's somewhat inflated account of himself . 
After the cloth had been removed , Rosny bit off the end of a cigar , lighted it , puffed at it two or three times , and then , holding it between his fingers , went on with an harangue which the operations of the waiter had interrupted . 
Rosny relighted his cigar , which , in the fervor of his declamation , he had allowed to go out , gave a vigorous whiff or two , and proceeded . 
`` It 's a temptation , '' said Morton , his eyes lighted with a sudden gleam , -- `` I am in a mood for any thing , I do not care what . '' 
`` I could storm Hell Gates to-day , '' exclaimed Morton , giving a momentary vent to his long pent up emotion . 
-- Here a slight grin flickered for an instant about the corners of his mouth ; but he grew serious again at once . 
`` Glory , '' -- exclaimed his military friend , summing up the advantages of a Mexican campaign , -- `` glory , -- preferment , -- life , of the fastest kind , -- what more would you have ? '' 
In his present frame of mind , he felt violently impelled to cut loose from all his old ideas and scruples , and launch at once upon a new life , fresh , unshackled , and reckless , -- to plunge headlong into the tumult of the active world ; fight its battles , run its races , give and take its blows , strain after its prizes , -- forget the past and all its associations in the fever of the present . 
Mexico rose before his thoughts -- snowy volcanoes , and tropical forests ; the cocoa , the palm , and the cactus ; bastioned cities and intrenched heights ; the rush and din of battle ; war with its fierce excitements and unbounded license . 
To his disordered mood , the scene had fascinations almost resistless , and he burned to play his part in the fiery drama . 
-- so his thoughts ran , -- `` why not obey what fate and nature dictate ? 
Rosny , his uniform coat half unbuttoned for the sake of ease , sat lolling back in his chair , puffing wreaths of cigar smoke from his lips , eying Morton as he paced the room , and throwing out , from time to time , a word of encouragement to stimulate his resolution . 
He was about to lose all patience at his companion 's pertinacious silence , when the latter stopped , and turned towards him with the air of one whose mind is made up . 
Rosny finished his cigar , and they left the restaurant together . 
`` Captain Rumbold , my friend Mr. Morton , '' said Rosny , who soon after , however , entered into an earnest conversation with the officer upon some affair of business , leaving Morton at leisure to observe six or eight volunteers , who were about to be sent to Governor 's Island , in charge of a sergeant . 
Morton , following the direction of his companion 's eye , saw , a little in advance , a tall man , slenderly but gracefully formed , walking slowly , with a listless air , as if but half conscious of what was going on around him . 
Changed as he was , he had that air of quiet and graceful courtesy which can only be acquired by habitual intercourse with polished society in early life ; and Morton saw in him the melancholy wreck of a highly-bred gentleman . 
Having urgent business on his hands , he soon after took leave of his two companions . 
Buckland was , as Rosny had described him , moody and abstracted , often seeming at a loss to collect his thoughts . 
He sipped his chocolate in silence , and , even when spoken to , sometimes returned no answer . 
Morton , in little better spirits than his companion , sat leaning his forehead dejectedly on his hand . 
`` I am sorry , '' said Buckland , after one of his silent fits , `` to be so wretched a companion ; but I am not the man I used to be . '' 
He had practised self-control till he was tired of it ; and he allowed a shade of emotion to pass across his face . 
`` There is a woman in it , '' said Buckland , regarding him with a scrutinizing eye . 
Buckland raised his head quickly , and looked in his companion 's face . 
`` It may be so , '' he said , after a moment 's pause . 
Morton , for reasons of his own , did not care to pursue the subject , and his companion relapsed into his former silence . 
Morton observed that , as he did so , his fingers trembled in a manner which showed that his whole nervous system was shattered and unstrung . 
He had grown reckless whether he injured himself or not . 
They seated themselves near the window ; but Buckland soon grew uneasy , alternately looking at his watch and gazing into the street . 
At length he rose , and asked Morton to walk out with him . 
This they repeated several times , Morton 's companion constantly resisting every movement on his part to vary in the least the course of their promenade . 
While their walk was up the street , Buckland , though evidently restless and uneasy , had the same abstracted air as before ; but when they moved in the opposite direction , his whole manner changed , and he seemed anxiously on the watch , as if for some person whom he expected every moment to meet . 
They were passing a large bookstore , when Morton felt his companion suddenly press the arm on which he was leaning . 
Hastily stepping aside , and dragging Morton with him , he ensconced himself behind the board on which the bookseller pasted his advertising placards , which partially concealed him , and , together with the projection over the shop door , screened him from the light of the neighboring gas lamp . 
Here he stood motionless , his eyes riveted on some approaching object . 
Following the direction of his gaze , Morton saw a tall man in the uniform of an army officer of rank , and , leaning on his arm , a light and delicate female figure , elegantly , but not showily dressed . 
They were close at hand when he discovered them , and in a moment they had passed on under the glare of the lamp , and mingled with the throng beyond ; but Morton retained a vivid impression of features beautifully moulded , and a pair of restless dark eyes , roving from side to side with piercing , yet furtive glances . 
Buckland , stepping from his retreat , made a hesitating , forward movement , as if undecided whether to follow them or not . 
He stopped with a kind of suppressed groan , and taking Morton 's arm again , moved slowly with him down the street . 
Two or three times , Morton spoke to him , but he seemed not to hear , or , at best , answered in monosyllables , with an absent air . 
`` You must think very strangely of me , '' said Buckland , at length breaking his long silence ; `` in fact , I scarcely know myself . 
Buckland shook his head . 
``` Could he minister to a mind diseased ? ' 
Morton looked with deep compassion on his old comrade , and wondered what follies or misfortunes could have sunk his former gallant spirit so far . 
In his weakened and depressed condition , Buckland seemed to lean for support on his friend 's firmer and better governed nature , and to draw strength from the contact . 
`` After all , '' he said in a livelier tone , `` what right have I to bore you with this story of mine ? '' 
`` I hadan old friend , '' Buckland began , with some glimmering of his former vivacity , -- `` De Ruyter , -- I do n't think you ever knew him . 
Buckland hesitated at first , slowly shaking his head ; but in a moment he said , with some animation , `` Yes , I will go , on one condition ; you must promise to go with me . '' 
The will , the motive power , -- never very strong in him , -- was now completely relaxed . 
He was unfitted for action of any kind , and was , as he himself said , no better than a sea weed drifting on the water . 
Morton walked the streets with him for some hours . 
He seemed to cling to his companion , like an ivy to the supporting trunk , and was evidently reluctant to resign his company . 
At length , Morton , who was exhausted with the excitements of the day , pleaded fatigue , and bade him good night . 
He turned again , however , and , by the blaze of the gas lamps , followed with his eye Buckland 's slowly receding figure . 
`` A few hours ago , '' he said to himself , `` I thought myself unhappy ; but what is my suffering compared to his ? 
Consequently , Morton had scarcely risen from breakfast , when he was visited by half a dozen persons , editors and others , eager to hear his adventures , for the gratification of their own curiosity , or that of the public . 
As he detested such visitations , and as several of his callers , from their countenances alone , inspired him with an earnest longing to kick them down stairs , he hastened to avoid the nuisance by escaping into the street . 
Since the tidings he had heard from Shingles , his native town had lost all attraction for him ; in fact he shrank from going thither , and willingly lingered another day in New York . 
Going to Buckland 's lodgings , he renewed his persuasions of the evening before , and strongly urged him to leave New York . 
Buckland assented to every thing he said ; and , hearing of a ship about to sail for the East Indies , Morton went with his friend to the merchant to whom she belonged , and induced him to engage a passage in her . 
Returning to his hotel at about two o'clock , a waiter brought him a card , telling him that a boy had just left it for him . 
Morton went to the recruiting office where he had been with Rosny on the day before , learned the time and place of the embarkation , was on the spot at the hour named , and in a few minutes saw Rosny striding down the wharf in most unmilitary haste , his hair fluttering in the wind . 
He was so engrossed in making certain arrangements , and issuing his mandates to the soldiers who were to row him and some other officers to Governor 's Island , that he did not observe Morton , who stood quietly leaning against a post . 
Rosny turned , in great surprise , and greeted him most emphatically . 
`` Come , Morton , '' he said , as he was stepping into the boat , `` you 'll change your mind after all , -- wo n't you ? 
Morton watched the receding boat till it was almost out of sight , waved his hat to Rosny , who waved his own in return , and walked back to the hotel , wondering what would be the issue of his old classmate 's ambitious schemes . 
How , among a throng of brave men , Rosny gained a name for determined daring ; -- how , on every occasion that offered , he displayed the fire of the Frenchman , and the stubborn mettle of the Saxon , whose blood mingled in his veins ; -- how , though sick and wounded , he dragged himself from the hospital at Puebla , and , mounting his horse , pushed forward with the advancing columns ; -- how gallantly , under the murdering storm of musketry and grape , he led his intrepid blackguards up the rocks of Chapultepec ; -- how , while shouting among the foremost , he climbed the hostile rampart , a bullet plunged into his brain , and dashed him , quivering and dead , to the foot of the scaling ladders ; -- all this , and more likewise , is it not written in the New York Herald ? 
About a year after Rosny 's departure , Morton chanced to be again in New York , when , in going out one morning , he beheld all the symptoms of some impending solemnity . 
They were all unknown to him ; but as the fifth approached , he looked , started , and looked again ; for wrought in white upon the sable drapery he saw , distinct and clear , the name of Rosny . 
Descending to the street , he joined the procession ; he even underwent the funeral oration at the City Hall ; and when it was over , shouldering through the crowd , he stood by the side of all that remained of his old classmate . 
Rosny 's cap , and the sword he had used so well , lay on the lid of the coffin ; and Morton turned away , with eyes not quite dry , as he recalled his many genial traits and his undaunted spirit . 
On returning to his hotel after taking leave of Rosny , Morton found a note awaiting him , directed in a female hand . 
He opened it , and read the signature , -- Ellen Ashland , -- the name of a lady whom he had well known in Boston , and who , just before he had sailed for Europe , had been married to an eminent lawyer of his acquaintance . 
She wrote that she had seen an account of his escape from prison , and arrival in New York , in the morning paper , -- expressed an earnest wish to see him , and invited him to visit her at the New York Hotel , where she was spending a few days with her husband . 
His friend received him with a peculiar warmth and earnestness of manner . 
He greatly liked and esteemed her , and her presence disarmed him , in a great degree , of his usual reserve . 
`` It is five years since I have spoken to a lady , '' said Morton , as he seated himself at the tea table . 
As he was not scrupulous to wear a mask before her , she quickly discovered the depressed condition of his mind ; and on her charging him with being very much out of spirits , he admitted that he was so . 
`` You have heard , then -- '' And she bent her eyes upon his face , with a look searching but full of kindness , as if studying his thoughts . 
Morton did not look up ; but an undefined expression passed across his face , like the shadow of a black cloud . 
When , a moment after , he raised his eyes , he saw those of Mrs. Ashland fixed upon him with the same earnest gaze as before . 
Such scrutiny from another would have been intolerable to him ; but in her it gave him no uneasiness . 
A quarter of an hour afterwards they were again alone , and Morton was seated near the window , when his friend approached him , her features kindling with a look of ill-suppressed feeling , laid her hand on his shoulder , and said , `` Vassall , '' -- she had always before addressed him as Mr. Morton , -- `` my heart bleeds for you -- for you and for Edith Leslie . '' 
Morton looked up till he met her eyes . 
The surprise , the sudden consciousness that she was privy to his grief , the warm and heartfelt woman 's sympathy that he read in every line of her face , were too much for his manhood , and he burst into tears . 
Morton ` sevening with Mrs. Ashland , and the story which she told him , removed at least one pain from his breast . 
He learned that Edith Leslie was not in fault ; and that , great as his misfortune might be , his idol was not turned to clay . 
His friend 's narrative , however , was very defective . 
She could give results merely , not knowing , or suspecting , the hidden springs which produced them ; and Morton was left to form his own conclusions . 
Leslie , seeing his daughter 's deep distress , made a journey to Europe ; but his search was fruitless . 
Morton , before his departure , had made his will , and in the ardor of his attachment , had left the bulk of his property to his betrothed , distributing a comparatively small residue among a number of poor relations , none of whom had either the means or the worldly knowledge to take measures for ascertaining his fate . 
Meanwhile , Leslie had fallen into a decline ; and there was no hope that his life could be protracted beyond a year or two . 
He became more than ever dependent upon Vinal , who now assumed nearly the whole charge of his affairs , acquitting himself with great ability , and , in this instance , with entire faithfulness . 
As , in process of time , the conviction of Morton 's death was confirmed , Leslie 's old wish for a union between his daughter and Vinal began again to grow strong within him . 
At length , however , certain of her father 's countenance , and assuming Morton 's death as now beyond a doubt , he began , with all possible delicacy and caution , to renew his former addresses . 
He was not long in discovering that his cause was quite hopeless , unless he could produce some positive proof that Morton was no longer alive . 
On returning to America , he told Leslie that he had inquired after Morton , on all sides , without the least success , but had taken measures which , he thought it not impossible , might in time lead to some discovery . 
In various parts of Germany , there was , as he affirmed , a class of travelling merchants and commercial agents , who , from the nature of their avocations , had every facility for making inquiries within the districts which they frequented . 
He had taken pains , he said , to become acquainted with a large number of these men , to whom he had stated the case of Morton 's disappearance , and promised a reward for any information concerning him . 
Some time after this , he told Leslie that he had had word from one of these correspondents . 
The latter , he affirmed , had heard that a young man , said to be an Englishman , had died very suddenly three or four years before , in an unfrequented part of Bohemia . 
`` Then , '' said Leslie , `` you would not receive this as a proof of Mr. Morton 's death ? '' 
His betrothed stored his image in her thoughts , as that of one lost for this world ; and Vinal saw the field clear before him . 
`` Goodmorning , Ned , '' said Morton to his friend Meredith . 
He had come to Boston the day before , and had already seen Meredith more than once . 
The signature was not that of Speyer ; but at the first glance , Morton was sure that the small , neat handwriting was the same with that of the treacherous notes of introduction given him by Vinal at Paris . 
Here , again , Mrs. Ashland promised to mediate for him , and in the afternoon he received a note from her , saying that Vinal 's wife would see him on the next morning . 
He advanced towards her , and took her hand in both his own . 
She raised her eyes to his face in silence . 
He tried to speak , but tried in vain . 
At length he found utterance . 
`` I would to God , '' he said , `` I could bear your burden for you . '' 
Grief , mixed with more ardent emotion , wrought with such violence in Morton 's breast , that he scarcely restrained his impulse to throw himself at her feet . 
A passionate denial rose to Morton 's lips ; but he did not utter it . 
Morton pressed her hand to his lips . 
He knows on what terms he takes me . 
I feel respect , esteem , confidence , warm friendship for him . '' 
Morton shook his head . 
When Morton left the house , after a half hour 's interview , the agitation with which he had entered it had sunk into quiet ; for an influence had fallen upon him as soothing and elevating as if he had been listening to the paschal music in the chapel of the choir at St. Peter 's . 
Onthe next morning he was walking near the Court House , when a man accosted him , touching his hat with one hand , and holding out the other in the way of friendly salutation . 
Morton , however , was at a loss to recognize him . 
He had an air which may most conveniently be described as raffish , a hat set on one side of his head , and a good-natured , easy , devil-may-care face . 
Morton , who had repeatedly revolved all the circumstances connected with his arrest , at once recalled the accident by which he had discovered Richards and Vinal , on their way together to visit Speyer . 
And taking Morton 's arm , he proceeded to catechize him touching his imprisonment and escape , of which he said he had first read in the New York Herald . 
Morton satisfied his curiosity , taking care to give him no suspicion of Speyer 's connection with the affair , and allowing him to infer that the arrest was caused by an accidental concurrence of suspicious circumstances . 
`` By the way , '' said Morton , when his companion 's heat had subsided , `` do you happen to remember a man called Speyer , or something like it , -- a republican propagandist , at Paris ? 
Before leaving his new companion , Morton obtained from him the name and direction of the person of whom he had spoken as likely to know where Speyer was to be found . 
Vinalsat alone , propped and cushioned in an arm chair , when a clerk from his office came to bring him his morning letters . 
He looked over the superscriptions till he saw one in a foreign hand . 
Then I can breathe again ; unless Morton should have suspected the trick I played him , or -- what if he should meet with Speyer ! 
He proved to be a German , of respectable appearance enough ; but Morton could learn nothing from him . 
He admitted that he had once known Speyer ; but stubbornly denied all present knowledge concerning him ; and after various inquiry elsewhere , which brought him into contact with much vile company , without helping him towards his end , Morton gave over the search , and returned to Boston . 
A day or two after , he met Richards in the street . 
While Richards occupied himself with these reflections , Morton repaired to his lodgings and made his preparations . 
On the next morning , he was in New York again . 
He went to the jail where Speyer was confined , and readily gained leave to see him . 
`` So much the better , '' thought Morton , who hoped that this impatience would aid him in his intended negotiation . 
he asked . 
He knew that if he tried to manœuvre with his antagonist , the latter would outflank him in a moment , and he had therefore resolved on a sudden and direct attack . 
But when he saw Speyer , he could not repress a lingering doubt whether he were in fact the person of whom he was in search . 
There was no direct evidence that he had any such letters ; yet Morton thought that the only hope of success lay in assuming his having them as a certainty , and pretending a positive knowledge , where , in truth , he had no other ground of action than conjecture . 
So he smothered his doubts , and as soon as the policeman was gone , made a crashing onset on the enemy . 
If Morton were in doubt before , all his doubts were now scattered , for a look of irrepressible surprise passed across Speyer 's features , mingled with as much dismay as his nature was capable of feeling . 
At the next instant , every trace of it had disappeared ; and slowly shaking his head , to indicate unconsciousness , he looked at Morton inquiringly , with an eye perfectly self-possessed and impenetrable . 
He came to the conclusion that Morton did not mean to expose Vinal ; but only , like himself , to extort money from him ; and wished that he , Speyer , should leave the country in order to get rid of a competitor . 
He could not foresee to what extremities Speyer 's extortion might drive its victim ; and he aimed to check it , by no means out of any tenderness for Vinal , but lest his wife might suffer from its consequences . 
His doubts were strong whether the other would keep faith with him ; but he amply consoled himself with the thought that , at the worst , he still had means to bring Vinal to terms . 
This notion consoled his disturbed thoughts not a little . 
Still he was abundantly anxious and harassed . 
He has not come to see me ; but that is natural enough , under the circumstances . 
And if he does suspect , he can have no proof . 
As his thoughts ran in this strain , he looked up , and his eye caught that of his wife . 
She was struck with his troubled expression . 
But Morton stood without taking his proffered hand . 
He made no answer , but still sat , or rather crouched , in the depths of his easy chair , where the thick bounding of his heart almost choked him . 
Morton stood for some time longer , looking at him . 
He had not reached such a point of Christian forgiveness as not to find pleasure in his enemy 's tortures , and he saw that his silence tortured him more than words . 
`` Vinal , '' he said at length , `` I used to know you in college for a liar and a coward ; and since then you have grown well in both ways . 
If he could have seen the condition of Vinal 's mind and body , he might , between pity and contempt , have spared him . 
Vinal seemed confused and stupefied , and Morton was forced to be more explicit in his demands . 
At length , the former signed a note for the amount , though not without stammering objections to his name appearing on it in connection with Speyer 's . 
`` Here is your pay , '' he said to Speyer . 
There was something in his appearance at once so abject and so piteous , that a changed feeling came over Morton as he looked on him . 
By a sudden impulse , akin to pity , he stepped towards him , and took his wrist . 
The pen dropped from his pale fingers , which quivered like an aspen bough ; and as Morton stood gazing on him , Vinal 's upturned eyes met his , as if riveted there by a helpless fascination . 
Mortontook possession again of his house in the country , which still remained in the keeping of one of his humble relatives , into whose charge he had given it . 
He turned the key of his long-deserted library . 
A loving influence had presided here in his absence , and , even when he was given up for lost , every thing had been scrupulously kept as he had left it . 
Here he immured himself ; avoided all society but that of a few personal friends ; and by plunging into the studies which had formerly engrossed him , tried to escape the persecution of his own thoughts . 
The marks in his books , the pencil notes on their margins , his voluminous piles of memoranda , were all so many sharp memorials of the past , to remind him that he was resuming in darkness and despondency the work that he had left in sunshine . 
In process of time , however , his ancient interest in his favorite pursuit began to rekindle . 
He began to feel that the years of his imprisonment had not been the dead and barren blank which he had inclined to think them . 
His mind had ripened in its solitude , and the studies which he had before followed with the zeal of a boy , more eager than able to deal with the broad questions which they involved , he could now grasp with the matured intellect of a man . 
Such rumors found their currency among the busier gossips of the town ; but Morton , secluded among his books , remained wholly ignorant of them . 
Itwas nearly a year since he had landed at New York , and Morton still remained a literary hermit . 
Society was stale and distasteful to him . 
He passed three fourths of his day in his library , and the rest on horseback . 
He drove to town in the afternoon ; and walking through a somewhat obscure street , suddenly , on turning a corner , saw , some four or five rods before him , a well-remembered face . 
Morton quickened his pace , and reached the head of the lane in time to see the broad shoulders of the patriot in full retreat . 
He soon lost sight of him among a wilderness of back yards and squalid houses . 
The incident greatly disturbed and exasperated him . 
`` A broken oath is nothing to him , '' he thought to himself ; `` he is at Vinal again , dragging at his veins like a vampire . '' 
The evening drew on , and he entered the ball room in a gloomy and dejected frame of mind . 
After a few words to his relatives , he took his stand among a group who were watching the dancers ; and had scarcely done so , when he saw a young lady , simply , but very richly dressed , whose fine figure and powerfully expressive beauty arrested his eye at once . 
The indifference and listlessness with which he had entered vanished . 
He soon observed that she was not an object of attention to him alone ; for near him stood a certain old beau , well known about town , and a young collegian , both following her with their eyes . 
Glancing at his two neighbors , Morton saw that they were in the act of moving towards her ; but he , being nearer , had the advantage . 
The eyes of his companion , as they met his , assumed a peculiar softness . 
ejaculated Morton , bitterly , as a sharp memory of the anguish which had met him on the threshold came over him . 
The words , equivocal as they were , were scarcely spoken , when he had repented them . 
thought Morton , on his part , as , raising his eyes , he saw those of his friend fixed on him in a gaze in which a woman 's curiosity was mingled with a fully equal share of a woman 's kindliness and sympathy . 
He hastened to escape from the critical ground which he had approached . 
`` I can retort upon you , '' he said . 
asked his friend , in some discomposure . 
`` That is very strange , '' said Fanny Euston , who was looking at him intently . 
Morton knew that , restrained and governed as it might be , there was quicksilver enough in his companion 's veins to enable her to understand what he had said , and prevent her being startled at it . 
But he was by no means prepared for the close attack she proceeded to make on him . 
Morton was taken by surprise ; and , as he struggled to frame an answer , his features betrayed an emotion which he could not hide . 
Fanny Euston hastened to relieve his embarrassment , and assuage , as far as she could , the tumult she had called up . 
Her words struck a chord in Morton 's nature , and roused his early enthusiasm , dormant for years . 
`` Fanny , '' he said , `` I thank you . 
She was visible to those in the room ; while he , standing opposite , was hidden by a curtain . 
This sudden apparition , breaking in upon the brightening mood of the moment , incensed Morton almost to fury ; and his anger , absurdly enough , was a little tinged with a feeling not wholly unlike jealousy . 
He made an involuntary movement to follow his enemy , but recollecting himself , smoothed his brow and calmed his ruffled spirit as he best might . 
`` You seem to know that man very well , '' he said to Miss Euston . 
she asked , in great astonishment . 
During the dance , Morton looked for his enemy , but could not discover him till it was over , and he had led his partner to a seat . 
`` Look , '' he said , `` there is our friend again ; in the next room , just beyond the folding doors , talking with Mrs. -- and Mrs. -- . 
Fanny Euston looked at him doubtingly . 
And passing into the adjoining room , he approached Vinal , who no sooner saw the movement , than he showed a manifest uneasiness . 
His forced animation ceased , his manner became constrained , and while Morton stood near , waiting an opportunity to speak to him , he withdrew to another part of the room . 
Morton followed , and pronounced his name . 
Morton again tried to accost him , and again Vinal moved away . 
Impatient and exasperated , Morton stepped behind him , touched his shoulder , and whispered in his ear , -- `` You fool , do you know your danger ? 
But he drew back without a word , and soon left the room . 
It flushed of a sudden as Morton appeared , and his whole look and mien showed an irrepressible agitation . 
`` Vinal , '' he said , `` you need not fear that I have come with any hostile purpose . 
Morton took his silence for assent . 
Morton left the room ; but his words had brought no relief to the wretched Vinal . 
He felt himself at the mercy of a miscreant as rapacious , fierce , and pitiless , as a wolverene dropping on its prey . 
Somefew days after , riding , as usual , in the afternoon , Morton saw on the road before him a lady on horseback , riding in the same direction . 
At a glance , he recognized the air and figure of Fanny Euston . 
Morton checked his horse , reflected for a little , then touched him with the spur , and in a moment was at her side . 
And , taking leave of his companion , he turned his horse homeward . 
A fewdays later , Morton was seated with his friend Meredith . 
`` Ned , '' he said , at length , `` I heard a rumor yesterday . 
His hand was on the door as he spoke , and bidding his friend good morning , he left him to his meditations . 
Mortonmounted his horse , and rode to the house of Mrs. Euston . 
He found her daughter alone . 
Morton gave the outline of his journey . 
And he launched into an emphatic eulogy of his friend , to which Fanny Euston listened with a pleasure which she could not wholly hide . 
As Morton spoke , he was studying his companion 's features , and she , conscious of his scrutiny , visibly changed color . 
`` Dear cousin , '' he said , with a changed tone , `` if I must lose my friend , let me find , when I return , that my loss has been overbalanced by his gain . 
He told her of his proposed journey ; told her that he should leave the country within a few days , to be absent for a year or two at least , and asked her mediation to gain for him a parting interview with Edith Leslie . 
Morton 's passion glowed upon him with all its early fervor . 
Morton assented to his friend 's reasons , and leaving his farewell for Edith Leslie , mournfully took his leave . 
Lesliewas dead ; beyond the reach of wounds and sorrow ; and the only tie which held his daughter to Vinal was at last broken . 
She left him , as she had promised , and made her abode with Mrs. Ashland , in her cottage by the sea shore . 
Morton was at the antipodes ; while the unknown divulger of the mystery eluded all attempts to trace him . 
Morton seated himself on a jutting edge of the rock over-hanging the bay , and gave himself up to his thoughts . 
These dismal forebodings weighed upon him , and his desire to have them resolved soon grew so importunate , that mounting his horse , he followed Buckland 's track towards the town . 
Threading the busy streets , he stopped before a door adorned with the effigy of a spread eagle wearing a striped shield about his neck , and clutching thunderbolts and olive boughs in his claws . 
He threw the rein to his servant , mounted the consular stair , and at the head met Buckland emerging . 
And he gave Morton a formidable packet . 
In it , he told his friend the whole course of his story ; and these were the closing words : -- `` One thing you may well believe -- that , before you will have had this letter many days , I shall follow it . 
Driving from one hotel to another , he found , at length , the latter 's resting-place . 
He knocked at the door . 
He knocked again , and a voice replied suddenly , like that of a man roused from a revery . 
He entered ; and at the next moment , Morton grasped his hand . 
He passed under the shadowy verdure of the pines , and approached the old family mansion of the Leslies . 
It was years since he had seen it . 
His imprisonment , his escape , his dreary greeting home , all lay between . 
He was the same man , yet different ; -- with a mind calmed by experience , and strong by action and endurance ; an ardor which had lost all of its intoxication , but none of its force ; and which , as the past and the present rose upon his thoughts , was tempered with a melancholy which had in it nothing of pain . 
The hall door stood open , as if to welcome him . 
Morton dismounted ; his foot was on the porch ; but he had no time for thought ; for a step sounded in the hall , and Edith met him on the threshold . 
