And now Mr. Clennam , perhaps I may ask you whether you have yet come to a decision where to go next ? '' 
`` My unknown course is easier and more hopeful than I had expected to find it then , '' said Clennam , shaking his head with his grave smile . 
Father and Mother Meagles sat with their daughter between them , the last three on one side of the table : on the opposite side sat Mr. Clennam ; a tall French gentleman with raven hair and beard , of a swart and terrible , not to say genteelly diabolical aspect , but who had shown himself the mildest of men ; and a handsome young Englishwoman , travelling quite alone , who had a proud observant face , and had either withdrawn herself from the rest or been avoided by the rest -- nobody , herself excepted perhaps , could have quite decided which . 
Pet had moved up to her -LRB- she had been the subject of remark among her family and Mr. Clennam , who were now the only other occupants of the room -RRB- , and was standing at her side . 
`` Very glad , '' said Mr. Meagles , coming forward with his wife and Clennam . 
`` This is the last good bye upon the list , for Mother and I have just said it to Mr. Clennam here , and he only waits to say it to Pet . 
At such a happy time , so propitious to the interests of religion and morality , Mr. Arthur Clennam , newly arrived from Marseilles by way of Dover , and by Dover coach the Blue-eyed Maid , sat in the window of a coffee house on Ludgate Hill . 
Mr. Arthur Clennam sat in the window of the coffee house on Ludgate Hill , counting one of the neighbouring bells , making sentences and burdens of songs out of it in spite of himself , and wondering how many sick people it might be the death of in the course of a year . 
said Clennam , when the hour struck , and the bell stopped . 
`` Heaven forgive me , '' said he , `` and those who trained me . 
There was the dreary Sunday of his childhood , when he sat with his hands before him , scared out of his senses by a horrible tract which commenced business with the poor child by asking him in its title , why he was going to Perdition ? 
-- a piece of curiosity that he really in a frock and drawers was not in a condition to satisfy -- and which , for the further attraction of his infant mind , had a parenthesis in every other line with some such hiccupping reference as 2 Ep . 
There was the sleepy Sunday of his boyhood , when , like a military deserter , he was marched to chapel by a picquet of teachers three times a day , morally handcuffed to another boy ; and when he would willingly have bartered two meals of indigestible sermon for another ounce or two of inferior mutton at his scanty dinner in the flesh . 
said Clennam , rousing himself . 
He sat in the same place as the day died , looking at the dull houses opposite , and thinking , if the disembodied spirits of former inhabitants were ever conscious of them , how they must pity themselves for their old places of imprisonment . 
Presently the rain began to fall in slanting lines between him and those houses , and people began to collect under cover of the public passage opposite , and to look out hopelessly at the sky as the rain dropped thicker and faster . 
Mr. Arthur Clennam took up his hat , and buttoned his coat , and walked out . 
He crossed by Saint Paul 's and went down , at a long angle , almost to the water 's edge , through some of the crooked and descending streets which lie -LRB- and lay more crookedly and closely then -RRB- between the river and Cheapside . 
`` Ah , Mr. Arthur ? '' 
Mr. Arthur stepped in and shut the door . 
Keeps her room when not actually bedridden , and has n't been out of it fifteen times in as many years , Arthur . '' 
`` I doubt if your mother will approve of your coming home on the Sabbath , Arthur , '' he said , shaking his head warily . 
`` Yes Arthur , yes . 
`` How weak am I , '' said Arthur Clennam , when he was gone , `` that I could shed tears at this reception ! 
He not only could , but did . 
He subdued it , took up the candle and examined the room . 
There was the old cellaret with nothing in it , lined with lead , like a sort of coffin in compartments ; there was the old dark closet , also with nothing in it , of which he had been many a time the sole contents , in days of punishment , when he had regarded it as the veritable entrance to that bourne to which the tract had found him galloping . 
There was the large , hard-featured clock on the sideboard , which he used to see bending its figured brows upon him with a savage joy when he was behind-hand with his lessons , and which , when it was wound up once a week with an iron handle , used to sound as if it were growling in ferocious anticipation of the miseries into which it would bring him . 
But , here was the old man come back , saying , `` Arthur , I 'll go before and light you . '' 
Arthur followed him up the staircase , which was panelled off into spaces like so many mourning tablets , into a dim bedchamber , the floor of which had gradually so sunk and settled , that the fireplace was in a dell . 
On a black bier-like sofa in this hollow , propped up behind with one great angular black bolster , like the block at a state execution in the good old times , sat his mother in a widow 's dress . 
She and his father had been at variance from his earliest remembrance . 
To sit speechless himself in the midst of rigid silence , glancing in dread from the one averted face to the other , had been the peacefullest occupation of his childhood . 
She gave him one glassy kiss , and four stiff fingers muffled in worsted . 
This embrace concluded , he sat down on the opposite side of her little table . 
`` The world has narrowed to these dimensions , Arthur , '' she replied , glancing round the room . 
I have not been outside this door for -- tell him for how long , '' she said , speaking over her shoulder . 
said Arthur , looking towards it . 
`` Good night , Arthur . 
`` It 's no , reason , Arthur , '' said the old woman , bending over him to whisper , `` that because I am afeared of my life of 'em , you should be . 
You 're clever , Arthur , a n't you ? '' 
He 's clever one -- oh he 's a clever one ! 
-- and he gives it her when he has a mind to ` t , he does ! '' 
It makes me shake from head to foot , to hear him give it her . 
Ca n't you find Master Arthur something or another to pick at ? '' 
Master Arthur repeated his recent refusal to pick at anything . 
`` You 'll have bitter words together to-morrow , Arthur ; you and your mother , '' said Jeremiah . 
only do n't expect me to stand between your mother and you , Arthur . 
Arthur Clennam helped her by carrying the load himself , wished the old man good night , and went upstairs with her to the top of the house . 
Arthur opened the long low window , and looked out upon the old blasted and blackened forest of chimneys , and the old red glare in the sky which had seemed to him once upon a time but a nightly reflection of the fiery environment that was presented to his childish fancy in all directions , let it look where it would . 
He drew in his head again , sat down at the bedside , and looked on at Affery Flintwinch making the bed . 
Seeing , as she patted the pillow into its place on the bolster , that he was still looking at her , as if waiting for the rest of her reply , she gave it a great poke in the middle , and asked , `` How could I help myself ? '' 
`` The Lord bless you , Arthur , and forgive me the wish ! '' 
said Arthur again . 
`` And so you may , Arthur . '' 
Mrs. Flintwinch had introduced into the web that his mind was busily weaving , in that old workshop where the loom of his youth had stood , the last thread wanting to the pattern . 
It is well for me , Arthur , that I know it and can bear it . '' 
`` Am I inclined , Arthur ? 
You can inspect them when you like , Arthur ; now , if you please . '' 
`` Do you consider , '' she returned , without answering his question , `` that a house serves no purpose , Arthur , in sheltering your infirm and afflicted -- justly inform and righteously afflicted -- mother ? '' 
`` Have you finished , Arthur , or have you anything more to say to me ? 
`` In the days of old , Arthur , treated of in this Commentary ; there were pious men , beloved of the Lord , who would have cursed their sons for less than this : who would have sent them forth , and sent whole nations forth , if such had supported them , to be avoided of God and man , and perish , down to the baby at the breast . 
`` Take your version of it , '' returned Arthur , finding it left to him to speak , `` from my mother . 
That 's not dutiful , Mr. Arthur . 
Have you told Mr. Arthur , that he must n't lay offences at his father 's door ? 
That he has no right to do it ? 
That he has no ground to go upon ? '' 
`` I tell him so now . '' 
`` You tell him so now . 
You had n't told him so before , and you tell him so now . 
You know I stood between you and his father so long , that it seems as if death had made no difference , and I was still standing between you . 
Arthur , you please to hear that you have no right to mistrust your father , and have no ground to go upon . '' 
`` Now , '' he resumed , standing behind her : `` in case I should go away leaving things half done , and so should be wanted again when you come to the other half and get into one of your flights , has Arthur told you what he means to do about the business ? '' 
`` He has relinquished it . '' 
Now that he had an opportunity of observing her , Arthur found that her diminutive figure , small features , and slight spare dress , gave her the appearance of being much younger than she was . 
For these particulars or generalities concerning Little Dorrit , Mr. Arthur was indebted in the course of the day to his own eyes and to Mrs. Affery 's tongue . 
In the course of the day too , Arthur looked through the whole house . 
Dull and dark he found it . 
The room Arthur Clennam 's deceased father had occupied for business purposes , when he first remembered him , was so unaltered that he might have been imagined still to keep it invisibly , as his visible relict kept her room up-stairs ; Jeremiah Flintwinch still going between them negociating . 
`` And do n't you lay offences at your father 's door , Mr. Arthur , '' added Jeremiah , `` once for all , do n't do it ! 
Thus refreshed , he tucked up his shirt-sleeves and went to work again ; and Mr. Arthur , watching him as he set about it , plainly saw that his father 's picture , or his father 's grave , would be as communicative with him as this old man . 
`` You had n't made Mr. Arthur 's bed when I was up there last . 
But Mr. Arthur found the house so blank and dreary , and was so unwilling to assist at another implacable consignment of his mother 's enemies -LRB- perhaps himself among them -RRB- to mortal disfigurement and immortal ruin , that he announced his intention of lodging at the coffeehouse where he had left his luggage . 
The business hours , allowing for intervals of invalid regimen of oysters and partridges , during which Clennam refreshed himself with a walk , were from ten to six for about a fortnight . 
This was the life , and this the history , of Little Dorrit ; now going home upon a dull September evening , observed at a distance by Arthur Clennam . 
Arthur Clennam stood in the street , waiting to ask some passer-by what place that was . 
He suffered a few people to pass him in whose faces there was no encouragement to make the inquiry , and still stood pausing in the street , when an old man came up and turned into the court-yard . 
Under one arm he carried a limp and worn-out case , containing some wind instrument ; in the same hand he had a pennyworth of snuff in a little packet of whitey-brown paper , from which he slowly comforted his poor old blue nose with a lengthened-out pinch , as Arthur Clennam looked at him . 
To this old man , crossing the court-yard , he preferred his inquiry , touching him on the shoulder . 
`` Pray , sir , '' said Arthur , repeating his question , `` what is this place ? '' 
returned the old man , staying his pinch of snuff on its road , and pointing at the place without looking at it . 
`` I beg your pardon , '' said Arthur , stopping him once more , `` but will you allow me to ask you another question ? 
Arthur pulled off his hat to him . 
He went on again , Arthur accompanied him . 
Arthur followed him down a narrow entry , at the end of which a key was turned , and a strong door was opened from within . 
`` I found this gentleman , '' said the uncle -- `` Mr. Clennam , William , son of Amy 's friend -- at the outer gate , wishful , as he was going by , of paying his respects , but hesitating whether to come in or not . 
`` I hope , '' said Arthur , very doubtful what to say , `` that my respect for your daughter may explain and justify my desire to be presented to you , sir . '' 
`` Mr. Clennam , '' returned the other , rising , taking his cap off in the flat of his hand , and so holding it , ready to put on again , `` you do me honor . 
Pray sit down , Mr. Clennam . '' 
He put his black cap on again as he had taken it off , and resumed his own seat . 
There was a wonderful air of benignity and patronage in his manner . 
These were the ceremonies with which he received the collegians . 
`` I -- so I have understood , '' said Arthur , dashing at the assertion . 
Amy , my dear , put the dish on ; Mr. Clennam will excuse the primitive customs to which we are reduced here . 
Is it a compliment to ask you if you would do me the honor , sir , to -- '' `` Thank you , '' returned Arthur . 
He felt himself quite lost in wonder at the manner of the man , and that the probability of his daughter 's having had a reserve as to her family history , should be so far out of his mind . 
She filled his glass , put all the little matters on the table ready to his hand , and then sat beside him while he ate his supper . 
Evidently in observance of their nightly custom , she put some bread before herself , and touched his glass with her lips ; but Arthur saw she was troubled and took nothing . 
`` Tip -- as you may know -- is my son , Mr. Clennam . 
He has been a little wild , and difficult to settle , but his introduction to the world was rather '' -- he shrugged his shoulders with a faint sigh , and looked round the room -- `` a little adverse . 
Mr. Clennam , as I have happened to mention a handsome and delicate action , you may like , perhaps , to know what it was . '' 
`` Very much , '' said Arthur , withdrawing his eyes from the delicate head beginning to droop , and the pale face with a new solicitude stealing over it . 
A -- well -- a -- it 's of no use to disguise the fact -- you must know , Mr. Clennam , that it does sometimes occur that people who come here , desire to offer some little -- Testimonial -- to the Father of the place . '' 
To see her hand upon his arm in mute entreaty half repressed , and her timid little shrinking figure turning away , was to see a sad , sad sight . 
`` Sometimes , '' he went on in a low , soft voice , agitated , and clearing his throat every now and then ; `` sometimes -- hem -- it takes one shape and sometimes another ; but it is generally -- ha -- Money . 
This gentleman that I refer to , was presented to me , Mr. Clennam , in a manner highly gratifying to my feelings , and conversed not only with great politeness , but with great -- ahem -- information . '' 
All this time , though he had finished his supper , he was nervously going about his plate with his knife and fork , as if some of it were still before him . 
`` It appeared from his conversation that he had a garden , though he had a garden , though he was delicate of mentioning it at first , as gardens are -- hem -- are not accessible to me . 
But it came out , through my admiring a very fine cluster of geranium -- beautiful cluster of geranium to be sure -- which he had brought from his conservatory . 
On my taking notice of its rich color , he showed me a piece of paper round it , on which was written ` For the Father of the Marshalsea , ' and presented it to me . 
I assure you , Mr. Clennam , I have received -- hem -- Testi-monials in many ways , and of many degrees of value , and they have always been -- ha -- unfortunately acceptable ; but I never was more pleased than with this -- ahem -- this particular Testimonial . '' 
Arthur was in the act of saying the little he could say on such a theme , when a bell began to ring , and footsteps approached the door . 
`` Mr. Clennam , Fanny . 
My eldest daughter and my son , Mr. Clennam . 
Girls , Mr. Clennam will excuse any household business you may have together . 
He knows , I dare say , that I have but one room here . '' 
Clennam heard the sister ask in a whisper . 
He had risen now , and took the opportunity of glancing round the room . 
`` Now , Mr. Clennam , '' said the uncle , looking back as he shuffled out after them , `` the lock , sir , the lock . '' 
Mr. Clennam had two things to do before he followed ; one , to offer his testimonial to the Father of the Marshalsea , without giving pain to his child ; the other to say something to that child , though it were but a word , in explanation of his having come there . 
`` Mr. Clennam , '' said the Father , `` I am deeply , deeply -- '' But his visitor had shut up his hand to stop the chinking , and had gone down-stairs with great speed . 
It 's you , is it , Mr. Clennam ? '' 
`` But you are locked in too , '' said Arthur . 
asked Arthur . 
As they passed down the yard , Arthur looked up at the window of the room he had lately left , where the light was still burning . 
`` Yes , sir , '' said Tip , following his glance . 
In this strange scene , and with these strange spectres flitting about him , Arthur Clennam looked on at the preparations , as if they were part of a dream . 
Arthur Clennam would have been little disposed to linger in bed , though his bed had been in a more private situation , and less affected by the raking out of yesterday 's fire , the kindling of to-day 's under the collegiate boiler , the filling of that Spartan vessel at the pump , the sweeping and sawdusting of the common room , and other such preparations . 
Heartily glad to see the morning , though little rested by the night , he turned out as soon as he could distinguish objects about him , and paced the yard for two heavy hours before the gate was opened . 
The walls were so near to one another , and the wild clouds hurried over them so fast , that it gave him a sensation like the beginning of seasickness to look up at the gusty sky . 
The rain , carried aslant by flaws of wind , blackened that side of the central building which he had visited last night , but left a narrow dry trough under the lee of the wall , where he walked up and down among waifs of straw and dust and paper , the waste droppings of the pump , and the stray leaves of yesterday 's greens . 
It was too early for her brother ; to have seen him once , was to have seen enough of him to know that he would be sluggish to leave whatever frowsy bed he occupied at night ; so , as Arthur Clennam walked up and down , waiting for the gate to open , he east about in his mind for future rather than for present means of pursuing his discoveries . 
At last the lodge-gate turned , and the turnkey , standing on the step , taking an early comb at his hair , was ready to let him out . 
With a joyful sense of release he passed through the lodge , and found himself again in the little outer courtyard where he had spoken to the brother last night . 
As these people passed him standing still in the courtyard , and one of them turned back to enquire if he could assist him with his services , it came into Arthur Clennam 's mind that he would speak to Dorrit again before he went away . 
She would have recovered her first surprise , and might feel easier with him . 
He asked this member of the fraternity -LRB- who had two red herrings in his hand , and a loaf and a blacking-brush under his arm -RRB- , where was the nearest place to get a cup of coffee at . 
The nondescript replied in encouraging terms , and brought him to a coffee-shop in the street within a stone 's throw . 
The nondescript had known her many years . 
said he , very slowly remembering Arthur , `` you were shut in last night ? '' 
`` I was glad , '' said Arthur , very much at a loss , for his thoughts were on the brother before him ; `` to find him so well and cheerful . '' 
Arthur wondered what he could possibly want with the clarionet case . 
He did not want it at all . 
He discovered , in due time , that it was not the little paper of snuff -LRB- which was also on the chimney-piece -RRB- , put it back again , took down the snuff instead , and solaced himself with a pinch . 
He was as feeble , spare , and slow in his pinches as in everything else , but a certain little trickling of enjoyment of them played in the poor worn nerves about the corners of his eyes and mouth . 
`` Amy , Mr. Clennam . 
`` My brother would have been quite lost without Amy , '' he returned . 
Arthur fancied that he heard in these praises , a certain tone of custom which he had heard from the father last night , with an inward protest and feeling of antagonism . 
It was not that they stinted her praises , or were insensible to what she did for them ; but that they were lazily habituated to her , as they were to all the rest of their condition . 
He fancied that although they had before them , every day , the means of comparison between her and one another and themselves , they regarded her as being in her neccessary place ; as holding a position towards them all which belonged to her , like her name or her age . 
He fancied that they viewed her , not as having risen away from the prison atmosphere , but as appertaining to it ; as being vaguely what they had a right to expect , and nothing more . 
Her uncle resumed his breakfast , and was munching toast sopped in coffee , oblivious of his guest , when the third bell rang . 
`` Mr. Clennam , Amy , '' said her uncle , `` has been expecting you some time . '' 
In the midst of this homage , Mr. Arthur Clennam offered his arm to Little Dorrit , and Little Dorrit took it . 
`` Will you go by the Iron Bridge , '' said he , `` where there is an escape from the noise of the street ? '' 
Little Dorrit answered , if he pleased , and presently ventured to hope that he would `` not mind '' Mr. Cripples 's boys , for she had herself received her education , such as it was , in Mr. Cripples 's evening academy . 
`` I asked you last night , '' said Clennam , `` how you had become acquainted with my mother . 
He met her eyes raised to his with so much wonder in them -LRB- she was scared when that encounter took place , and shrunk away again -RRB- , that he felt it necessary to say : `` I have a reason for asking , which I can not very well explain ; but you must , on no account , suppose it to be of a nature to cause you the least alarm or anxiety . 
And you think that at no time of your father 's life was my name of Clennam ever familiar to him ? '' 
He felt , from the tone in which she spoke , that she was glancing up at him with those parted lips ; therefore he looked before him , rather than make her heart beat quicker still by embarrassing her afresh . 
`` Let me put you in a coach , '' said Arthur Clennam , very nearly adding , `` my poor child . '' 
He knew it to be so , and was touched with more pity ; thinking of the slight figure at his side , making its nightly way through the damp , dark , boisterous streets , to such a place of rest . 
`` Not , '' she said , with a prouder air , as the misgiving evidently crept upon her that she might seem to be abandoning him , `` Not that he has anything to be ashamed of for himself , or that I have anything to be ashamed of for him . 
`` It can do no harm , '' thought Arthur , `` if I see this Mr. Tite Barnacle . '' 
She forgot to be shy at the moment , in honestly warning him away from the sunken wreck he had a dream of raising ; and looked at him with eyes which assuredly , in association with her patient face , her fragile figure , her spare dress , and the wind and rain , did not turn him from his purpose of helping her . 
Arthur took down the address and gave her his . 
He had now done all he sought to do for the present , except that he wished to leave her with a reliance upon him , and to have something like a promise from her that she would cherish it . 
he said , putting up his pocket-book . 
`` As I take you back , '' the word home jarred upon him , `` let me ask you to persuade yourself that you have another friend . 
Yet it was not a common passage through common rain , and mire , and noise , to Clennam , having this little , slender , careful creature on his arm . 
How young she seemed to him , or how old he to her ; or what a secret either to the other , in that beginning of the destined interweaving of their stories , matters not here . 
He thought of her having been born and bred among these scenes , and shrinking through them now , familiar yet misplaced ; he thought of her long acquaintance with the squalid needs of life , and of her innocence ; of her old solicitude for others , and her few years and her childish aspect . 
Maggy was not hurt , but picked herself up immediately , and then began to pick up the potatoes , in which both Dorrit and Arthur Clennam helped . 
Maggy then smeared her muddy face with her shawl , and presenting it to Mr. Clennam as a type of purity , enabled him to see what she was like . 
Arthur Clennam looked at Dorrit , with the expression of one saying , `` May I ask who this is ? '' 
asked Clennam . 
`` She had never been at peace before , sir , '' said Dorrit , turning towards Arthur for an instant and speaking low , `` and she always runs off upon that . '' 
But Arthur would have known what was wanting to its completeness , though he had never heard the words Little mother ; though he had never seen the fondling of the small spare hand ; though he had had no sight for the tears now standing in the colorless eyes ; though he had had no hearing for the sob that checked the clumsy laugh . 
The dirty gateway with the wind and rain whistling through it , and the basket of muddy potatoes waiting to be spilt again or taken up , never seemed the common hole it really was , when he looked back to it by these lights . 
For Mr. Tite Barnacle , Mr. Arthur Clennam made his fifth enquiry one day at the Circumlocution Office ; having on previous occasions awaited that gentleman successively in a hall , a glass case , a waiting room , and a fire-proof passage where the department seemed to keep its wind . 
The present Barnacle , holding Mr. Clennam 's card in his hand , had a youthful aspect , and the fluffiest little whisker , perhaps , that ever was seen . 
Such a downy tip was on his callow chin , that he seemed half fledged like a young bird ; and a compassionate observer might have urged , that if he had not singed the calves of his legs , he would have died of cold . 
He had a superior eye-glass dangling round his neck , but unfortunately had such flat orbits to his eyes , and such limp little eyelids , that it would n't stick in when he put it up , but kept tumbling out against his waistcoat buttons with a click that discomposed him very much . 
`` You are very good , '' said Arthur Clennam . 
`` No , '' said Arthur Clennam . 
Barnacle Junior in that state of search after it , that Mr. Clennam felt it useless to reply at present . -RRB- 
`` No , '' said Arthur , `` it is nothing about tonnage . '' 
-LRB- The misguided young Barnacle evidently going blind on his eye-glass side , but ashamed to make any further alteration in his painful arrangements . -RRB- 
With which assurance , and rather wondering what might have taken place if it had been anything about tonnage , Mr. Clennam withdrew to pursue his inquiries . 
Arthur Clennam came to a squeezed house , with a ramschackle bowed front , little dingy windows , and a little dark area like a damp waistcoat-pocket , which he found to be number twenty-four , Mews Street , Grosvenor Square . 
A sallow flabbiness was upon him , when he took the stopper out , and presented the bottle to Mr. Clennam 's nose . 
`` Mr. Clennam ? '' 
Mr. Clennam became seated . 
`` I want to know , '' said Arthur Clennam , who had made up his mind to persistence in one short form of words , `` the precise nature of the claim of the Crown against a prisoner for debt named Dorrit . '' 
`` I want to know , '' said Arthur . 
And repeated his case . 
The effect of that upon Arthur Clennam was to make him repeat his enquiry in exactly the same words and tone as before . 
The effect of that upon young Barnacle was to make him a wonderful spectacle of failure and helplessness . 
You had better try the Secretarial Department , '' he said at last , sidling to the bell and ringing it . 
Arthur Clennam , who now felt that he had devoted himself to the storming of the Circumlocution Office , and must go through with it , accompanied the messenger to another floor of the building , where that functionary pointed out Mr. Wobbler 's room . 
`` I want to know -- '' and Arthur Clennam again mechanically set forth what he wanted to know . 
`` I want to know , '' said Arthur Clennam , -- and again stated his case in the same barrel-organ way . 
As number one referred him to number two , and as number two referred him to number three , he had occasion to state it three times before they all referred him to number four . 
To whom he stated it again . 
This was such a new point of view that Arthur Clennam found himself at a loss how to receive it . 
`` But surely this is not the way to do the business , '' Arthur Clennam could not help saying . 
This airy young Barnacle was quite entertained by his simplicity in supposing for a moment that it was . 
This touch and go young Barnacle had `` got up '' the Department in a private secretaryship , that he might be ready for any little bit of fat that came to hand ; and he fully understood the Department to be a politico diplomatico hocus pocus piece of machinery , for the assistance of the nobs in keeping off the snobs . 
Arthur Clennam looked very doubtful indeed . 
`` But I am obliged to you , at any rate , '' said he , `` for your politeness . '' 
Arthur Clennam put his forms in his pocket gloomily enough , and went his way down the long stone passage and the long stone staircase . 
He had come to the swing doors leading into the street , and was waiting , not over patiently , for two people who were between him and them to pass out and let him follow , when the voice of one of them struck familiarly on his ear . 
He looked at the speaker and recognised Mr. Meagles . 
It was such an unexpected hearing , and it was also such an unexpected sight to see Mr. Meagles burst the swing-doors open , and emerge into the street with the short man , who was of an unoffending appearance , that Clennam stood still for the moment exchanging looks of surprise with the porter . 
He followed , however , quickly ; and saw Mr. Meagles going down the street with his enemy at his side . 
Clennam wondered within himself , as they took the nearest way to the Park , what this unknown -LRB- who complied in the gentlest manner -RRB- could have been doing . 
At length , they being among the trees , Mr. Meagles stopped short , and said : `` Mr. Clennam , will you do me the favour to look at this man ? 
`` I should say , '' returned Arthur Clennam , observing a faint smile in Daniel Doyce 's face , `` not one of them . '' 
Arthur looked at the man himself , who only shook his head . 
Well , Mr. Clennam . 
He addresses himself to the Government . 
The moment he addresses himself to the Government , he becomes a public offender ! 
Sir , '' said Mr. Meagles , in danger of making himself excessively hot again , `` he ceases to be an innocent citizen , and becomes a culprit . 
He is treated , from that instant , as a man who has done some infernal action . 
`` Do n't stand there , Doyce , turning your spectacle-case over and over , '' cried Mr. Meagles , `` but tell Mr. Clennam what you confessed to me . '' 
`` You must have great patience , '' said Arthur Clennam , looking at him with some wonder , `` great forbearance . '' 
`` No , '' he returned , `` I do n't know that I have more than another man . '' 
Doyce smiled , as he said to Clennam , `` You see , my experience of these things does not begin with myself . 
With that he put up his spectacle-case , and said to Arthur , `` If I do n't complain , Mr. Clennam , I can feel gratitude ; and I assure you that I feel it towards our mutual friend . 
Arthur could not but glance at Daniel Doyce in the ensuing silence . 
`` Mr. Clennam wo n't be deterred by its being in Bleeding Heart Yard . '' 
said Clennam . 
As they went along , certainly one of the party , and probably more than one , thought that Bleeding Heart Yard was no inappropriate destination for a man who had been in official correspondence with my lords and the Barnacles -- and perhaps had a misgiving also that Britannia herself might come to look for lodgings in Bleeding Heart Yard , some ugly day or other , if she over-did the Circumlocution Office . 
Down into the Yard , by way of the steps , came Daniel Doyce , Mr. Meagles , and Clennam . 
Here Arthur Clennam stopped to look about him for the domicile of Plornish , plasterer : whose name , according to the custom of Londoners , Daniel Doyce had never seen or heard of to that hour . 
Parting from his companions , after arranging another meeting with Mr. Meagles , Clennam went alone into the entry , and knocked with his knuckles at the parlor-door . 
Arthur entered the rather dark and close parlor -LRB- though it was lofty too -RRB- , and sat down in the chair she placed for him . 
He was at a loss to understand what she meant ; and by expressing as much in his looks , elicited her explanation . 
Clennam returned , with an uncomfortable feeling in so very slight a courtesy being unusual , Was that all ! 
And stooping down to pinch the cheek of another young child who was sitting on the floor , staring at him , asked Mrs. Plornish how old that fine boy was ? 
asked Arthur Clennam . 
Really he was . 
He was one of those many wayfarers on the road of life , who seem to be afflicted with supernatural corns , rendering it impossible for them to keep up even with their lame competitors . 
`` I came , '' said Clennam , rising , `` to beg the favor of a little conversation with you , on the subject of the Dorrit family . '' 
`` I know you better , '' said Clennam , smiling , `` than you suppose . '' 
Plornish observed , not smiling in return , And yet he had n't the pleasure of being acquainted with the gentleman , neither . 
`` No , '' said Arthur , `` I know of your kind offices at second hand , but on the best authority . 
-- I mean , '' he explained , `` Miss Dorrit . '' 
`` Mr. Clennam , is it ? 
`` And I of you , '' said Arthur . 
-- Why , yes , '' said Plornish , taking a chair , and lifting the elder child upon his knee , that he might have the moral support of speaking to a stranger over his head , `` I have been on the wrong side of the Lock myself , and in that way we come to know Miss Dorrit . 
`` Without admiring him for that , '' Clennam quietly observed , `` I am very sorry for him . '' 
`` The landlord of the Yard , '' said Arthur Clennam , `` is -- '' `` He is Mr. Casby , by name , he is , '' said Plornish , `` and Pancks , he collects the rents . 
returned Clennam , thoughtful in his turn . 
As there truly was no reason why he should have the least interest in it , Arthur Clennam went on to the present purport of his visit ; namely , to make Plornish the instrument of effecting Tip 's release , with as little detriment as possible to the self-reliance and self-helpfulness of the young man , supposing him to possess any remnant of those qualities : without doubt a very wide stretch of supposition . 
Plornish , having been made acquainted with the cause of action from the Defendant 's own mouth , gave Arthur to understand that the Plaintiff was `` a Chaunter '' -- meaning , not a singer of anthems , but a seller of horses -- and that he -LRB- Plornish -RRB- considered that ten shillings in the pound `` would settle handsome , '' and that more would be a waste of money . 
`` Mr. Plornish , '' said Arthur , `` I trust to you , if you please , to keep my secret . 
Finding himself unable to balance his sentence after two efforts , Mr. Plornish wisely dropped it . 
He took Clennam 's card , and appropriate pecuniary compliment . 
On the way , Arthur elicited from his new friend , a confused summary of the interior life of Bleeding Heart Yard . 
The mention of Mr. Casby again revived , in Clennam 's memory , the smouldering embers of curiosity and interest which Mrs. Flintwinch had fanned on the night of his arrival . 
Flora Casby had been the beloved of his boyhood ; and Flora was the daughter and only child of wooden-headed old Christopher -LRB- so he was still occasionally spoken of by some irreverent spirits who had dealings with him , and in whom familiarity had bred its proverbial result perhaps -RRB- , who was reputed to be rich in weekly tenants , and to get a good quantity of blood out of the stones of several unpromising courts and alleys . 
After some days of enquiry and research , Arthur Clennam became convinced that the case of the Father of the Marshalsea was indeed a hopeless one , and sorrowfully resigned the idea of helping him to freedom again . 
He had no hopeful enquiry to make , at present , concerning Little Dorrit either ; but he argued with himself that it might , for anything he knew it might be serviceable to the poor child , if he renewed this acquaintance . 
It is hardly necessary to add , that beyond all doubt he would have presented himself at Mr. Casby 's door , if there had been no Little Dorrit in existence ; for we all know how we all deceive ourselves -- that is to say , how people in general , our profounder selves excepted , deceive themselves -- as to motives of action . 
`` The house , '' thought Clennam , as he crossed to the door , `` is as little changed as my mother 's , and looks almost as gloomy . 
When his knock , at the bright brass knocker of obsolete shape , brought a woman-servant to the door , those faded scents in truth saluted him like wintry breath that had a faint remembrance in it of the bygone spring . 
He stepped into the sober , silent , air-tight house -- one might have fancied it to have been stifled by Mutes in the Eastern manner -- and the door , closing again seemed to shut out sound and motion . 
The servant-maid had ticked the two words `` Mr. Clennam '' so softly that she had not been heard ; and he consequently stood , within the door she had closed , unnoticed . 
Arthur Clennam moved to attract his attention , and the grey eyebrows turned towards him . 
`` I beg your pardon , '' said Clennam , `` I fear you did not hear me announced ? '' 
Mr. Clennam ? '' 
`` Mr. Clennam , I am glad to see you . 
Without thinking it worth while to explain that in the course of some quarter of a century he had experienced occasional slight fluctuations in his health and spirits , Clennam answered generally that he had never been better , or something equally to the purpose ; and shook hands with the possessor of `` that head , '' as it shed its patriarchal light upon him . 
`` We are older , Mr. Clennam , '' said Christopher Casby . 
`` We are -- not younger , '' said Clennam . 
After this wise remark he felt that he was scarcely shining with brilliancy , and became aware that he was nervous . 
I was grieved to hear it , Mr. Clennam , I was grieved . '' 
Arthur implied in the usual way that he felt infinitely obliged to him . 
`` I have heard that you were kind enough on one of those occasions , '' said Arthur , catching at the opportunity as it drifted past him , `` to mention Little Dorrit to my mother . '' 
`` My daughter Flora , '' said Mr. Casby , `` as you may have heard probably , Mr. Clennam , was married and established in life , several years ago . 
`` By all means , '' returned Clennam . 
Immediately after wards , a quick and eager short dark man came into the room with so much way upon him , that he was within a foot of Clennam before he could stop . 
Clennam saw no reason why he should not say `` Halloa ! '' 
`` I have not heard that anything is the matter , '' returned Clennam . 
This elicited a word or two of explanation from Clennam , during the delivery of which the short dark man held his breath and looked at him . 
said he , when Arthur had told him how he came to be there . 
And so , with a snort and a puff , he worked out by another door . 
Now , in the old days at home , certain audacious doubts respecting the last of the Patriarchs , which were afloat in the air , had , by some forgotten means , come in contact with Arthur 's sensorium . 
He was aware of motes and specks of suspicion , in the atmosphere of that time ; seen through which medium , Christopher Casby was a mere Inn signpost without any Inn -- an invitation to rest and be thankful , when there was no place to put up at , and nothing whatever to be thankful for . 
In a word , it was represented -LRB- Clennam called to mind , alone in the ticking parlor -RRB- that many people select their models , much as the painters , just now mentioned , select theirs ; and that , whereas in the Royal Academy some evil old ruffian of a Dogstealer will annually be found embodying all the cardinal virtues , on account of his eyelashes , or his chin , or his legs -LRB- thereby planting thorns of confusion in the breasts of the more observant students of nature -RRB- , so , in the great social Exhibition , accessories are often accepted in lieu of the internal character . 
Calling these things to mind , and ranging Mr. Pancks in a row with them , Arthur Clennam leaned this day to the opinion , without quite deciding on it , that the last of the Patriarchs was the drifting Booby aforesaid , with the one idea of keeping the bald part of his head highly polished : and that , much as an unwieldy ship in the Thames river may sometimes be seen heavily driving with the tide , broadside on , stern first , in its own way and in the way of everything else , though making a great show of navigation , when all of a sudden , a little coaly steam-tug will bear down upon it , take it in tow , and bustle off with it ; similarly , the cumbrous Patriarch had been taken in tow by the snorting Pancks , and was now following in the wake of that dingy little craft . 
Clennam 's eyes no sooner fell upon the object of his old passion , than it shivered and broke to pieces . 
Such was Clennam 's case . 
In his youth he had ardently loved this woman , and had heaped upon her all the locked-up wealth of his affection and imagination . 
That wealth had been , in his desert home , like Robinson Crusoe 's money ; exchangeable with no one , lying idle in the dark to rust , until he poured it out for her . 
Ever since that memorable time , though he had , until the night of his arrival , as completely dismissed her from any association with his Present or Future as if she had been dead -LRB- which she might easily have been for anything he knew -RRB- , he had kept the old fancy of the Past unchanged , in its old sacred place . 
Flora , whom he had left a lily , had become a peony ; but that was not much . 
`` I am sure , '' giggled Flora , tossing her head with a caricature of her girlish manner , such as a mummer might have presented at her own funeral , if she had lived and died in classical antiquity , `` I am ashamed to see Mr. Clennam , I am a mere fright , I know he 'll find me fearfully changed , I am actually an old woman , it 's shocking to be so found out , it 's really shocking ! '' 
That must be a long time hence , Arthur considered . 
`` Oh Mr. Clennam you insincerest of creatures , '' said Flora , `` I perceive already you have not lost your old way of paying compliments , your old way when you used to pretend to be so sentimentally struck you know -- at least I do n't mean that , I -- oh I do n't know what I mean ! '' 
Here Flora tittered confusedly , and gave him one of her old glances . 
`` You must n't think of going yet , '' said Flora -- Arthur had looked at his hat , being in a ludicurous dismay , and not knowing what to do ; `` you could never be so unkind as to think of going , Arthur -- I mean Mr. Arthur -- or I suppose Mr. Clennam would be far more proper -- but I am sure I do n't know what I 'm saying -- without a word about the dear old days gone for ever , however when I come to think of it I dare say it would be much better not to speak of them and it 's highly probable that you have some much more agreeable engagement and pray let Me be the last person in the world to interfere with it though there was a time , but I am running into nonsense again . '' 
Could there have been anything like her present disjointed volubility , in the fascinations that had captivated him ? 
`` I am not , '' returned Arthur , smiling in spite of himself , `` married to any lady , Flora . '' 
Flora gave him another of her old glances . 
Instantly she went on again , as if he had spoken in reply for some time . 
good gracious Arthur ! 
-- pray excuse me -- old habit -- Mr. Clennam far more proper -- what a country to live in for so long a time , and with so many lanterns and umbrellas too how very dark and wet the climate ought to be and no doubt actually is , and the sums of money that must be made by those two trades where everybody carries them and hangs them everywhere , the little shoes too and the feet screwed back in infancy is quite surprising , what a traveller you are ! '' 
In his ridiculous distress , Clennam received another of the old glances , without in the least knowing what to do with it . 
`` Dear dear , '' said Flora , `` only to think of the changes at home Arthur -- can not overcome it , seems so natural , Mr. Clennam far more proper -- since you became familiar with the Chinese customs and language which I am persuaded you speak like a Native if not better for you were always quick and clever though immensely difficult no doubt , I am sure the tea chests alone would kill me if I tried , such changes Arthur -- I am doing it again , seems so natural , most improper -- as no one could have believed , who could have ever imagined Mrs. Finching when I ca n't imagine it myself ! '' 
asked Arthur , struck , in the midst of all this , by a certain warmth of heart that expressed itself in her tone when she referred , however oddly , to the youthful relation in which they had stood to one another . 
`` No one could dispute , Arthur -- Mr. Clennam -- that it 's quite right you should be formally friendly to me under the altered circumstances and indeed you could n't be anything else , at least I suppose not you ought to know , but I ca n't help recalling that there was a time when things were very different . '' 
`` My dear Mrs. Finching , '' Arthur began , struck by the good tone again . 
`` No , no , '' Clennam entreated , `` do n't say that . '' 
The inconsistent and profoundly unreasonably way in which she instantly went on , nevertheless , to interweave their long-abandoned boy and girl relations with their present interview , made Clennam feel as if he were lightheaded . 
`` One remark , '' said Flora , giving their conversation , without the slightest notice and to the great terror of Clennam , the tone of a lovequarrel , `` I wish to make , one explanation I wish to offer , when your Mama came and made a scene of it with my Papa and when I was called down into the little breakfast room where they were looking at one another with your Mama 's parasol between them seated on two chairs like mad bulls what was I to do ! '' 
`` My dear Mrs. Finching , '' urged Clennam -- `` all so long ago and so long concluded , is it worth while seriously to -- '' `` I ca n't , Arthur , '' returned Flora , `` be denounced as heartless by the whole society of China without setting myself right when I have the opportunity of doing so , and you must be very well aware that there was Paul and Virginia which had to be returned and which was returned without note or comment , not that I mean to say you could have written to me watched as I was but if it had only come back with a red wafer on the cover I should have known that it meant Come to Pekin Nankeen and What 's the third place , barefoot . '' 
-- Pray think how long ago , '' gently remonstrated Arthur . 
`` Nothing whatever , '' said Arthur , with the cheerfulest readiness , `` but what you did . 
`` One last remark , '' proceeded Flora , rejecting common-place life with a wave of her hand , `` I wish to make , one last explanation I wish to offer , there was a time ere Mr. F first paid attentions incapable of being mistaken , but that is past and was not to be , dear Mr. Clennam you no longer wear a golden chain you are free I trust you may be happy , here is Papa who is always tiresome and putting in his nose everywhere where he is not wanted . '' 
With these words , and with a hasty gesture fraught with timid caution -- such a gesture had Clennam 's eyes been familiar with in the old time -- poor Flora left herself , at eighteen years of age , a long long way behind again ; and came to a full stop at last . 
As if there were a secret understanding between herself and Clennam of the most thrilling nature ; as if the first of a train of post-chaises and four , extending all the way to Scotland , were at that moment round the corner ; and as if she could n't -LRB- and would n't -RRB- have walked into the Parish Church with him , under the shade of the family umbrella , with the Patriarchal blessing on her head , and the perfect concurrence of all mankind ; Flora comforted her soul with agonies of mysterious signalling , expressing dread of discovery . 
With the sensation of becoming more and more lightheaded every minute , Clennam saw the relict of the late Mr. F enjoying herself in the most wonderful manner , by putting herself and him in their old places , and going through all the old performances -- now , when the stage was dusty , when the scenery was faded , when the youthful actors were dead , when the orchestra was empty , when the lights were out . 
Clennam so wished he could have done more than stay to dinner -- so heartily wished he could have found the Flora that had been , or that never had been -- that he thought the least atonement he could make for the disappointment he almost felt ashamed of , was to give himself up to the family desire . 
returned Clennam , upon whom this impression was so efficiently made by a mere gleam of the polished head , that he spoke the ship instead of the Tug . 
`` True enough , '' said Arthur . 
said Clennam , doubtful which of the two to address . 
She broke upon the visitor 's view under the following circumstances : Flora said , when the first dish was being put on table , perhaps Mr. Clennam might not have heard that Mr. F had left her a legacy ? 
Clennam in return implied his hope that Mr. F had endowed the wife whom he adored , with the greater part of his worldly substance , if not with all . 
But the effect of this mysterious communication upon Clennam , was absolutely to frighten him . 
Every man retired from the spoon , as Clennam did , cowed and baffled . 
Once upon a time Clennam had sat at that table taking no heed of anything but Flora ; now the principal heed he took of Flora was , to observe , against his will , that she was very fond of porter , that she combined a great deal of sherry with sentiment , and that if she were a little overgrown , it was upon substantial grounds . 
All through dinner , Flora combined her present appetite for eating and drinking , with her past appetite for romantic love , in a way that made Clennam afraid to lift his eyes from his plate ; since he could not look towards her without receiving some glance of mysterious meaning or warning , as if they were engaged in a plot . 
Flora had just said `` Mr. Clennam , will you give me a glass of port for Mr. F 's Aunt ? '' 
As Flora 's good nature shone in the case , Clennam had no fault to find with the old lady for eliciting it , now that he was relieved from the terrors of her presence ; and they took a glass or two of wine in peace . 
said Arthur . 
said Arthur . 
said Clennam . 
It packed up , in the smallest compass , a weight that had rested on Clennam 's life ; and he made no answer . 
sighed Clennam . 
When they had walked a little further in silence , Clennam said : `` Have you no taste for anything , Mr. Pancks ? '' 
said Clennam . 
You 're not of the Clennams of Cornwall , Mr. Clennam . '' 
`` There 's a Cornish property going a begging , sir , and not a Cornish Clennam to have it for the asking , '' said Pancks , taking his note-book from his breast pocket and putting it in again . 
said Clennam . 
They had crossed Smithfield together , and Clennam was left alone at the corner of Barbican . 
He had no intention of presenting himself in his mother 's dismal room that night , and could not have felt more depressed and cast away if he had been in a wilderness . 
He turned slowly down Aldersgate Street , and was pondering his way along towards Saint Paul 's , purposing to come into one of the great thoroughfares for the sake of their light and life , when a crowd of people flocked towards him on the same pavement , and he stood aside against a shop to let them pass . 
As they came up , he made out that they were gathered round a something that was carried on men 's shoulders . 
He soon saw that it was a litter , hastily made of a shutter or some such thing ; and a recumbent figure upon it , and the scraps of conversation in the crowd , and a muddy bundle carried by one man , and a muddy hat carried by another , informed him that an accident had occurred . 
The speaker having folded his arms , and set in comfortably to address his depreciation of them Mails to any of the bystanders who would listen , several voices , out of pure sympathy with the sufferer , confirmed him ; one voice saying to Clennam , `` They 're a public nuisance , them Mails sir ; '' another , `` I see one on 'em pull up within half a inch of a boy , last night ; '' anther , `` I see one on 'em go over a cat , sir -- and it might have been your own mother ; '' and all representing , by implication , that if he happened to possess any public influence , he could not use it better than against them Mails . 
said Clennam , leaning forward to look . 
In the midst of such replies as `` Frenchman , sir , '' `` Porteghee , sir , '' `` Dutchman , sir , '' `` Prooshan , sir , '' and other conflicting testimony , he now heard a feeble voice asking , both in Italian and in French , for water . 
Clennam begged to be allowed to pass , as he understood the poor creature . 
He was immediately handed to the front , to speak to him . 
`` First , he wants some water , '' said he , looking round . 
he asked the man on the litter , in Italian . 
It was at a convenient height from the ground , and by stooping he could lightly raise the head with one hand , and hold the glass to the lips with the other . 
Arthur Clennam turned ; and walking beside the litter , and saying an encouraging word now and then , accompanied it to the neighbouring hospital of Saint Bartholomew . 
`` He hardly knows an English word , '' said Clennam ; `` is he badly hurt ? '' 
`` Let us know all about it first , '' said the surgeon , continuing his examination with a business-like delight in it , `` before we pronounce . '' 
Which Clennam interpreted to the patient , who was full of gratitude , and , in his demonstrative way , kissed both the interpreter 's hand and the surgeon 's , several times . 
said Clennam . 
`` Yes-es , '' replied the surgeon , with the thoughtful pleasure of an artist , contemplating the work upon his easel . 
He gave the patient a friendly clap on the shoulder again , as if he really felt that he was a very good fellow indeed , and worthy of all commendation for having broken his leg in a manner interesting to science . 
Clennam remained until everything possible to be done had been skilfully and promptly done -- the poor belated wanderer in a strange land movingly besought that favor of him -- and lingered by the bed to which he was in due time removed , until he had fallen into a doze . 
Even then he wrote a few words for him on his card , with a promise to return to-morrow , and left it to be given to him when he should awake . 
All these proceedings occupied so long , that it struck eleven o'clock at night as he came out at the Hospital Gate . 
He had hired a lodging for the present in Covent Garden , and he took the nearest way to that quarter , by Snow Hill and Holborn . 
`` From the unhappy suppression of my youngest days , through the rigid and unloving home that followed them , through my departure , my long exile , my return , my mother 's welcome , my intercourse with her since , down to the afternoon of this day with poor Flora , '' said Arthur Clennam , `` what have I found ! '' 
His door was softly opened , and these spoken words startled him , and came as if they were an answer : `` Little Dorrit . '' 
Arthur Clennam rose hastily , and saw her standing at the door . 
This history must sometimes see with Little Dorrit 's eyes , and shall begin that course by seeing him . 
Little Dorrit looked into a dim room , which seemed a specious one to her , and grandly furnished . 
`` And I have no fire , '' said Clennam . 
`` And you are -- '' He was going to say so lightly clad , but stopped himself in what would have been a reference to her poverty , saying instead , `` And it is so cold . '' 
Putting the chair from which he had risen , nearer to the grate , he made her sit down in it ; and hurriedly bringing wood and coal , heaped them together and got a blaze . 
`` Your foot is like marble , my child ; '' he had happened to touch it , while stooping on one knee at his work of kindling the fire ; `` put it nearer the warmth . '' 
Little Dorrit thanked him hastily . 
It smote upon his heart to feel that she hid her thin , worn shoe . 
He knew her story , and it was not that . 
Little Dorrit had a misgiving that he might blame her father , if he saw them ; that he might think , `` why did he dine-to-day , and leave this little creature to the mercy of the cold stones ! '' 
Arthur was rejoiced to hear it , and hoped he would do well . 
He would probably need no thanks , Clennam said . 
Very likely he would be thankful himself -LRB- and with reason -RRB- , that he had had the means and chance of doing a little service to her , who well deserved a great one . 
Little Dorrit had put his hand to her lips , and would have kneeled to him ; but he gently prevented her , and replaced her in her chair . 
Her eyes , and the tones of her voice , had thanked him far better than she thought . 
He was not able to say , quite as composedly as usual , `` There , Little Dorrit ; there , there , there ! 
And now tell me , who am quite another person -- who am nothing more than the friend who begged you to trust him -- why you are out at midnight , and what it is that brings you so far through the streets at this late hour , my slight , delicate , '' child was on his lips again , `` Little Dorrit ! '' 
Let us pass to the second , '' said Clennam , smiling her agitation away , making the blaze shine upon her , and putting wine and cake and fruit towards her on the table . 
returned Clennam , quickly . 
He asked her , after a short consideration , why she supposed so . 
And why , Clennam asked , as he turned his eyes upon the fire , bent his brows , and considered again ; why did she suppose that ? 
mused Clennam , still looking at the fire ; `` it 's always on one side . '' 
He roused himself to persuade her to put some wine to her lips , and to touch something to eat -- it was very difficult , she was so timid and shy -- and then said , musing again : `` Is my mother at all changed to you ? '' 
I wondered , '' said Little Dorrit , looking at him in a suppliant way , and gradually withdrawing her eyes as he looked at her , `` whether you would advise me what I ought to do . '' 
`` Little Dorrit , '' said Clennam ; and the phrase had already begun , between those two , to stand for a hundred gentle phrases , according to the varying tone and connexion in which it was used ; `` do nothing . 
Nor , '' said Little Dorrit , as he softly put her glass towards her , `` nor thirsty . 
`` We will make her find pockets presently for all there is here , '' said Clennam ; `` but before we awake her , there was a third thing to say . '' 
`` Can you guess , '' said Little Dorrit , folding her small hands tight in one another , and looking at him with all the earnestness of her soul looking steadily out of her eyes , `` what I am going to ask you not to do ? '' 
Clennam said -- not very plainly , seeing those tears glistening in her anxious eyes -- that her wish should be sacred with him . 
`` Pray , '' said Clennam , `` do not be so distressed . 
Maggy being broad awake , and in the act of distantly gloating over the fruit and cakes with chuckles of anticipation , Clennam made the best diversion in his power by pouring her out a glass of wine , which she drank in a series of loud smacks ; putting her hand upon her windpipe after every one , and saying , breathless , with her eyes in a very prominent state , `` Oh ai n't it d'licious ! 
When she had finished the wine and these encomiums , he charged her to load her basket -LRB- she was never without her basket -RRB- with every eatable thing upon the table , and to take especial care to leave no scrap behind . 
`` But the gates will have been locked long ago , '' said Clennam , suddenly remembering it . 
`` I must accompany you there , '' said Clennam . 
She was so earnest in the petition , that Clennam felt a delicacy in obtruding himself upon her : the rather , because he could well understand that Maggy 's lodging was of the obscurest sort . 
Arthur Clennam suffered them to pass the corner of the street , before he followed at a distance ; not with any idea of encroaching a second time on Little Dorrit 's privacy , but to satisfy his mind by seeing her secure , in the neighbourhood to which she was accustomed . 
So diminutive she looked , so fragile and defenceless against the bleak damp weather , flitting along in the shuffling shadow of her charge , that he felt , in his compassion , and in his habit of considering her a child apart from the rest of the rough world , as if he would have been glad to take her up in his arms and carry her to her journey 's end . 
In course of time she came into the leading thoroughfare where the Marshalsea was , and then he saw them slacken their pace , and soon turn down a bye-street . 
He stopped , felt that he had no right to go further , and slowly left them . 
He had no suspicion that they ran any risk of being houseless until morning ; had no idea of the truth , until long , long afterwards . 
And if Mr. Clennam was one of our visitors , and we were dancing to delightful music , and were all as gay and lighthearted as ever we could be ! 
`` I dropped down upon you , then , you ill-conditioned man , '' -LRB- Jeremiah chuckled at having forced her to adopt his phrase -RRB- , `` for having been needlessly significant to Arthur that morning . 
Because , before you took your own part , I thought you ought to have taken the part of Arthur 's father . 
Arthur 's father ! 
I had no particular love for Arthur 's father . 
I served Arthur 's father 's uncle , in this house , when Arthur 's father was not much above me -- was poorer as far as his pocket went -- and when his uncle might as soon have left me his heir as have left him . 
I suppose you are astonished that I should consider it worth my while to have justice done to Arthur 's father ? 
After tea , there came another knock at the door , announcing Arthur . 
Mistress Affery went down to let him in , and he said on entering , `` Affery , I am glad it 's you . 
Affery immediately replied , `` For goodness sake do n't ask me nothing , Arthur ! 
-- and immediately started away from him , and came near him no more . 
Mistress Affery having no taste for reading , and no sufficient light for needlework in the subdued room , supposing her to have the inclination , now sat every night in the dimness from which she had momentarily emerged on the evening of Arthur Clennam 's return , occupied with crowds of wild speculations and suspicions respecting her mistress , and her husband , and the noises in the house . 
The time being come for the renewal of his acquaintance with the Meagles family , Clennam , pursuant to contract made between himself and Mr. Meagles , within the precinets of Bleeding Heart Yard , turned his face on a certain Saturday towards Twickenham , where Mr. Meagles had a cottage-residence of his own . 
said Clennam , overtaking him . 
exclaimed that public criminal , coming out of some mental combinations he had been making , and offering his hand . 
It 's Clennam . 
How do you do , Mr. Clennam ? '' 
`` I have some hope , '' said Arthur , as they walked on together , that we may be going to the same place , Mr. Doyce . '' 
It was at first difficult to lead him to speak about himself , and he put off Arthur 's advances in that direction by admitting slightly , oh yes , he had done this , and he had done that , and such a thing was of his making , and such another thing was his discovery , but it was his trade , you see , his trade ; until , as he gradually became assured that his companion had a real interest in his account of himself , he frankly yielded to it . 
`` It is much to be regretted , '' said Clennam , `` that you ever turned your thoughts that way , Mr. Doyce . '' 
asked Clennam . 
`` That is to say , '' said Arthur , with a growing admiration of his quiet companion , `` you are not finally discouraged even now ? '' 
When they had walked a little way in silence , Clennam , at once to change the direct point of their conversation and not to change it too abruptly , asked Mr. Doyce if he had any partner in his business , to relieve him of a portion of its anxieties ? 
And here 's another thing , '' he said , stopping for a moment with a good-humoured laugh in his eyes , and laying his closed right hand , with its peculiar suppleness of thumb , on Clennam 's arm , `` no inventor can be a man of business , you know . '' 
said Clennam . 
`` Why , so the men of business say , '' he answered , resuming the walk and laughing outright . 
Arthur Clennam could not help joining in the good-humoured laugh , for he recognised the truth of the description . 
As he knew the house well , he conducted Arthur to it by the way that showed it to the best advantage . 
`` Here we are , you see , '' said Mr. Meagles , `` boxed up , Mr. Clennam , within our own home-limits , as if we were never going to expand -- that is , travel -- again . 
said Clennam , looking about him . 
We are delighted to see you , Clennam -LRB- if you 'll allow me , I shall drop the Mister -RRB- ; I heartily assure you , we are delighted . '' 
`` I have not had so pleasant a greeting , '' said Clennam -- then he recalled what Little Dorrit had said to him in his own room , and faithfully added `` except once -- since we last walked to and fro , looking down at the Mediterranean . '' 
Clennam 's eyes had strayed to a natural picture on the wall , of two pretty little girls with their arms entwined . 
`` Yes , Clennam , '' said Mr. Meagles in a lower voice . 
said Arthur . 
`` Should you have known , Mr. Clennam , that one of them was meant for me ? '' 
Indeed , '' said Clennam , glancing from the fair original to the picture and back , `` I can not even now say which is not your portrait . '' 
`` It 's always the same , Clennam ; nobody can decide . 
As Arthur looked at it again , he saw , by the reflection of the mirror , Tattycoram stop in passing outside the door , listen to what was going on , and pass away with an angry and contemptuous frown upon her face that changed its beauty into ugliness . 
asked Daniel , with a significant smile at Clennam . 
Clennam could not help speculating , as he seated himself in his room by the fire , whether there might be in the breast of this honest , affectionate , and cordial Mr. Meagles , any microscopic portion of the mustard-seed that had sprung up into the great tree of the Circumlocution Office . 
Arthur Clennam was a retiring man , with a sense of many deficiencies ; and he so exalted the merits of the beautiful Minnie in his mind , and depressed his own , that when he pinned himself to this point , his hopes began to fail him . 
He came to the final resolution , as he made himself ready for dinner , that he would not allow himself to fall in love with Pet . 
An impatient glance from Tattycoram seemed , as Clennam saw it , to answer `` With my eyes ! '' 
This was Clennam 's reflection , notwithstanding the final conclusion at which he had arrived up-stairs . 
In making it , he revoked . 
Nothing , '' returned Clennam . 
said Arthur Clennam . 
As they broke up for the night , Arthur overheard Doyce ask his host if he could give him half-an-hour 's conversation before breakfast in the morning ? 
The host replying willingly , Arthur lingered behind a moment , having his own word to add on that topic . 
`` Mr. Meagles , '' he said , on their being left alone , `` do you remember when you advised me to go straight to London ? '' 
`` Clennam , I accept the trust with readiness , '' said Mr. Meagles . 
Clennam went back to his room , sat down again before his fire , and made up his mind that he was glad he had resolved not to fall in love with Pet . 
She was so beautiful , so amiable , so apt to receive any true impression given to her gentle nature and her innocent heart , and make the man who should be so happy as to communicate it , the most fortunate and enviable of all men , that he was very glad indeed he had come to that conclusion . 
Before breakfast in the morning , Arthur walked out to look about him . 
As the morning was fine , and he had an hour on his hands , he crossed the river by the ferry , and strolled along a footpath through some meadows . 
When he came back to the towing-path , he found the ferry-boat on the opposite side , and a gentleman hailing it and waiting to be taken over . 
As Arthur came over the stile and down to the water 's edge , the lounger glanced at him for a moment , and then resumed his occupation of idly tossing stones into the water with his foot . 
There was something in his way of spurning them out of their places with his heel , and getting them into the required position , that Clennam thought had an air of cruelty in it . 
Clennam followed the man and the dog into the boat , and took his seat . 
The dog did as he was ordered . 
The man remained standing , with his hands in his pockets , and towered between Clennam and the prospect . 
Clennam was glad to be rid of them . 
The church clock struck the breakfast hour , as he walked up the little lane by which the garden-gate was approached . 
The moment he pulled the bell , a deep loud barking assailed him from within the wall . 
`` I heard no dog last night , '' thought Clennam . 
Then she said to the master of the dog , `` Mr. Clennam , sir , '' and tripped away . 
`` Odd enough , Mr. Clennam , that we should have met just now , '' said the man . 
The manner was easy , and the voice agreeable ; but still Clennam thought , that if he had not made that decided resolution to avoid falling in love with Pet , he would have taken a dislike to this Henry Gowan . 
said this Gowan , when Arthur had extolled the place . 
But for that resolution so often recalled , Clennam might have wished him in the crater of Mount Etna , in return for this civility . 
It was -LRB- at least it might have been , always excepting for that wise resolution -RRB- like his dexterous impudence to call it a Paradise . 
He only called it a Paradise because he first saw her coming , and so made her out within her hearing to be an angel , Confusion to him ! 
And ah , how beaming she looked , and how glad ! 
How she caressed the dog , and how the dog knew her ! 
How expressive that heightened color in her face , that fluttered manner , her downeast eyes , her irresolute happiness ! 
When had Clennam seen her look like this ? 
Not that there was any reason why he might , could , would , or should have ever seen her look like this , or that he had ever hoped for himself to see her look like this ; but still -- when had he ever known her do it ! 
He stood at a little distance from them . 
This Gowan , when he had talked about a Paradise , had gone up to her and taken her hand . 
The dog had put his great paws on her arm and laid his head against her dear bosom . 
She had laughed and welcomed them , and made far too much of the dog , far , far , too much -- that is to say , supposing there had been any third person looking on who loved her . 
She disengaged herself now , and came to Clennam , and put her hand in his and wished him good morning , and gracefully made as if she would take his arm and be escorted into the house . 
Neither it , nor the touch of uncasiness on Mrs. Meagles as she directed her eyes towards it , was unobserved by Clennam . 
Then he told how he had met Mr. Clennam at the ferry , and they had come over together . 
-LRB- Clennam became attentive . -RRB- 
-LRB- Clennam became inattentive . -RRB- 
I could n't very well get out of it , '' he explained , turning to the latter . 
In the beginning of this dialogue , Clennam had expected some great harmless outburst from Mr. Meagles , like that which had made him burst out of the Circumlocution Office , holding Doyce by the collar . 
Clennam looked at Doyce ; but Doyce knew all about it beforehand , and looked at his plate , and made no sign , and said no word . 
The cloud that Clennam had never seen upon his face before that morning , frequently overeast it again ; and there was the same shadow of uneasy observation of him on the comely face of his wife . 
More than once or twice when Pet caressed the dog , it appeared to Clennam that her father was unhappy in seeing her do it ; and , in one particular instance when Gowan stood on the other side of the dog , and bent his head at the same time , Arthur fancied that he saw tears rise to Mr. Meagles 's eyes as he hurried out of the room . 
He appeared to be an artist by profession , and to have been at Rome some time ; yet he had a slight , careless , amateur way with him -- a perceptible limp , both in his devotion to art and his attainments -- which Clennam could scarcely understand . 
He applied to Daniel Doyce for help , as they stood together , looking out of window . 
he said in a low voice . 
asked Clennam , with a smile . 
Pursuing his inquiries , Clennam found that the Gowan family were a very distant ramification of the Barnacles ; and that the paternal Gowan , originally attached to a legation abroad , had been pensioned off as a Commissioner of nothing particular somewhere or other , and had died at his post with his drawn salary in his hand , nobly defending it to the last extremity . 
Such was the substance of Clennam 's discoveries concerning him , made that rainy Sunday afternoon and afterwards . 
Young Barnacle was in the last degree amazed and disconcerted at sight of Arthur , and had murmured involuntarily , `` Look here ! 
before his presence of mind returned . 
Even then , he was obliged to embrace the earliest opportunity of taking his friend into a window , and saying , in a nasal way that was a part of his general debility : `` I want to speak to you , Gowan . 
Conversationless at any time , he was now the victim of a weakness special to the occasion , and solely referable to Clennam . 
He was under a pressing and continual necessity of looking at that gentleman , which occasioned his eye-glass to get into his soup , into his wine-glass , into Mrs. Meagles 's plate , to hang down his back like a bell-rope , and be several times disgracefully restored to his bosom by one of the dingy men . 
Weakened in mind by his frequent losses of this instrument , and its determination not to stick in his eye , and more and more enfeebled in intellect every time he looked at the mysterious Clennam , he applied spoons to his eye , forks , and other foreign matters connected with the furniture of the dinner-table . 
His discovery of these mistakes greatly increased his difficulties , but never released him from the necessity of looking at Clennam . 
And whenever Clennam spoke , this ill-starred young man was clearly seized with a dread that he was coming , by some artful device , round to that point of wanting to know , you know . 
Pet had taken the most amiable pains all day to be friendly with Clennam , but Clennam had been a little reserved since breakfast -- that is to say , would have been , if he had loved her . 
When he had gone to his own room , and had again thrown himself into the chair by the fire , Mr. Doyce knocked at the door , candle in hand , to ask him how and at what hour he purposed returning on the morrow ? 
`` Those are not good prospects for a painter , '' said Clennam . 
said Clennam . 
said Clennam . 
`` There -- '' Clennam choked , and coughed , and stopped . 
said Clennam airily . 
cried Arthur . 
Such tone was probably a part of his oddity , as one of a crotchetty band ; for how could he have heard anything of that kind , without Clennam 's hearing it , too ? 
If Clennam had not decided against falling in love with Pet ; if he had had the weakness to do it ; if he had , little by little , persuaded himself to set all the earnestness of his nature , all the might of his hope , and all the wealth of his matured character , on that cast ; if he had done this , and found that all was lost ; he would have been , that night , unutterably miserable . 
Little Dorrit had not attained her twenty-second birthday without finding a lover . 
He had troubled himself so little as to the means of his release , that Clennam scarcely needed to have been at the pains of impressing the mind of Mr. Plornish on that subject . 
Mr. Clennam did not increase in favor with the Father of the Marshalsea in the ratio of his increasing visits . 
His obtuseness on the great Testimonial question was not calculated to awaken admiration in the paternal breast , but had rather a tendency to give offence in that sensitive quarter , and to be regarded as a positive shortcoming in point of gentlemanly feeling . 
An impression of disappointment , occasioned by the discovery that Mr. Clennam scarcely possessed that delicacy for which , in the confidence of his nature , he had been inclined to give him credit , began to darken the fatherly mind in connection with that gentleman . 
The father went so far as to say , in his private family circle , that he feared Mr. Clennam was not a man of high instincts . 
He was happy , he observed , in his public capacity as leader and representative of the College , to receive Mr. Clennam when he called to pay his respects ; but he did n't find that he got on with him personally . 
There appeared to be something -LRB- he did n't know what it was -RRB- wanting in him . 
In the threefold capacity , of the gentleman from outside who had been accidentally locked in on the night of his first appearance , of the gentleman from outside who had enquired into the affairs of the Father of the Marshalsea with the stupendous idea of getting him out , and of the gentleman from outside who took an interest in the child of the Marshalsea , Clennam soon became a visitor of mark . 
He was not surprised by the attentions he received from Mr. Chivery when that officer was on the lock , for he made little distinction between Mr. Chivery 's politeness and that of the other turnkeys . 
Mr. Chivery , by some artful exercise of his power of clearing the Lodge , had contrived to rid it of all sauntering Collegians ; so that Clennam , coming out of the prison , should find him on duty alone . 
She 's wishful to say a word to you , sir , upon a point respecting -- yes , '' said Mr. Chivery , answering Clennam 's look of apprehension with a nod , `` respecting her . '' 
Arthur Clennam , with the card in his hand , betook himself to the address set forth upon it , and speedily arrived there . 
Arthur mentioned his name , and his having promised to call , on the solicitation of Mr. Chivery . 
Not to be deficient in interest , Clennam asked what he might be doing there ? 
`` I have been so habituated , '' returned Arthur , at a loss , `` during the short time I have known her , to consider Little -- I have been so habituated to consider Miss Dorrit in a light altogether removed from that in which you present her to me , that you quite take me by surprise . 
She was so confident in her exposition of the case , and it was so undeniably founded on correct premises in so far as the relative positions of Little Dorrit and her family were concerned , that Clennam could not feel positive on the other side . 
He had come to attach to Little Dorrit an interest so peculiar -- an interest that removed her from , while it grew out of , the common and coarse things surrounding her -- that he found it disappointing , disagreeable , almost painful , to suppose her in love with young Mr. Chivery in the back yard , or any such person . 
They then parted good friends , and Arthur walked away . 
The crowd in the street jostling the crowd in his mind , and the two crowds making a confusion , he avoided London Bridge , and turned off in the quieter direction of the Iron Bridge . 
He had scarcely set foot upon it , when he saw Little Dorrit walking on before him . 
He had left her in her father 's room within an hour . 
It was a timely chance , favorable to his wish of observing her face and manner when no one else was by . 
He quickened his pace ; but , before he reached her , she turned her head . 
he asked . 
They walked together , and she recovered her confiding manner with him , and looked up in his face , as she said , after glancing around : `` It is so strange . 
He gathered from a tremor on her lip , and a passing shadow of great agitation on her face , that her mind was with her father . 
They turned , and Clennam said , Here was Maggy coming ! 
Arthur read , in Little Dorrit 's downcast eyes , to whom she foresaw that the letters were addressed . 
It a n't you , Little Mother , that 's got anything to do with it -- it 's you , you know , '' said Maggy , addressing Arthur . 
Give them me here , '' said Clennam , in a low voice . 
Clennam crossed to the other side , and hurriedly opened the letters . 
That from the father , mentioned that most unexpectedly finding himself in the novel position of having been disappointed of a remittance from the City on which he had confidently counted , he took up his pen , being restrained by the unhappy circumstance of his incarceration during three and twenty years -LRB- doubly underlined -RRB- , from coming himself , as he would otherwise certainly have done -- took up his pen to entreat Mr. Clennam to advance him the sum of Three Pounds Ten Shillings upon his I.O.U. , which he begged to enclose . 
That from the son , set forth that Mr. Clennam would , he knew , be gratified to hear that he had at length obtained permanent employment of a highly satisfactory nature , accompanied with every prospect of complete success in life ; but that the temporary inability of his employer to pay him his arrears of salary to that date -LRB- in which condition said employer had appealed to that generous forbearance in which he trusted he should never be wanting towards a fellow-creature -RRB- , combined with the fraudulent conduct of a false friend , and the present high price of provisions , had reduced him to the verge of ruin , unless he could by a quarter before six that evening raise the sum of eight pounds . 
This sum , Mr. Clennam would be happy to learn , he had , through the promptitude of several friends who had a lively confidence in his probity , already raised , with the exception of a trifling balance of one pound seventeen and fourpence ; the loan of which balance , for the period of one month , would be fraught with the usual beneficent consequences . 
`` These letters Clennam answered with the aid of his pencil and pocket-book , on the spot ; sending the father what he asked for , and excusing himself from compliance with the demand of the son . 
`` Do n't be distressed , '' said Clennam . 
The agonised way in which she poured this out as if it burst of itself from her suppressed heart , made it difficult for Clennam to keep the tears from his eyes as he saw and heard her . 
he entreated . 
He felt that it was better to respect her entreaty , and did not move while her slight form went quickly away from him . 
When it had fluttered out of sight , he turned his face towards the water , and stood thinking . 
Mr. Meagles bestirred himself with such prompt activity in the matter of the negociation with Daniel Doyce which Clennam had entrusted to him , that he soon brought it into business train , and called on Clennam at nine o'clock one morning to make his report . 
`` Doyce is highly gratified by your good opinion , '' he opened the business by saying , `` and desires nothing so much as that you should examine the affairs of the Works for yourself , and entirely understand them . 
He has handed me the keys of all his books and papers -- here they are jingling in this pocket -- and the only charge he has given me is , ` let Mr. Clennam have the means of putting himself on a perfect equality with me as to knowing whatever I know . 
If it should come to nothing after all , he will respect my confidence . 
Unless I was sure of that to begin with , I should have nothing to do with him . ' 
Now , would you believe , Clennam , '' said Mr. Meagles , with a hearty enjoyment of his friend 's eccentricity , `` that I had a whole morning in What 's - his-name Yard -- '' `` Bleeding Heart ? '' 
`` A whole morning in Bleeding Heart Yard , before I could induce him to pursue the subject at all ? '' 
`` I no sooner mentioned your name , Clennam , than he said ` that will never do ! ' 
What did he mean by that ? 
I asked him . 
You 'll hardly believe it , Clennam , '' said Mr. Meagles , laughing within himself , `` but it came out that it would never do , because you and he , walking down to Twickenham together , had glided into a friendly-conversation , in the course of which he had referred to his intention of taking a partner , supposing at the time that you were as firmly and finally settled as Saint Paul 's Cathedral . 
` Whereas , ' says he , ` Mr. Clennam might now believe , if I entertained his proposition , that I had a sinister and designing motive in what was open free speech . 
Which I ca n't bear , ' says he , ` which I really am too proud to bear . 
''' `` I should as soon suspect -- '' `` Of course you would , '' interrupted Mr. Meagles , `` and so I told him . 
Well , Clennam . 
This business-like obstacle surmounted , he then stipulated that before resuming with you I should look over the books , and form my own opinion . 
says he . 
` For , ' says I. ` Then , ' says he , ` you may now , my good friend , give Mr. Clennam the means of forming his opinion . 
To enable him to do which , without bias and with perfect freedom , I shall go out of town for a week . ' 
And he 's gone , '' said Mr. Meagles ; `` that 's the rich conclusion of the thing . '' 
`` Leaving me , '' said Clennam , `` with a high sense , I must say , of his candor and his -- '' `` Oddity , '' Mr. Meagles struck in . 
It was not exactly the word on Clennam 's lips , but he forbore to interrupt his good-humoured friend . 
It occurred to Arthur that a far more elaborate and taking show of business -- such as the records of the Circumlocution Office made perhaps -- might be far less serviceable , as being meant to be far less intelligible . 
Three or four days of steady application rendered him master of all the facts it was essential to become acquainted with . 
`` And I may now avow , Mr. Clennam , '' said he , with a cordial shake of the hand , `` that if I had looked high and low for a partner , I believe I could not have found one more to my mind . '' 
`` I say the same , '' said Clennam . 
You keep him in check , Clennam , with your common sense , and you stick to the Works , Dan , with your -- '' N2509015 `` Uncommon sense ? '' 
It left Arthur in possession of private personal means not exceeding a few hundred pounds ; but it opened to him an active and promising career . 
Two months had barely gone by in all , when Bleeding Heart Yard had become so familiar with short-commons again that the treat was forgotten there ; when nothing seemed new in the partnership but the paint of the inscription on the door-posts , Doyce And Clennam ; when it appeared even to Clennam himself , that he had had the affairs of the firm in his mind for years . 
The little counting-house reserved for his own occupation , was a room of wood and glass at the end of a long low workshop , filled with benches , and vices , and tools , and straps , and wheels ; which , when they were in gear with the steam engine , went tearing round as though they had a suicidal mission to grind the business to dust and tear the factory to pieces . 
A communication of great trapdoors in the floor and roof with the workshop above and the workshop below , made a shaft of light in this perspective , which brought to Clennam 's mind the child 's old picture-book , where similar rays were the witnesses of Abel 's murder . 
The whole had at once a fanciful and practical air in Clennam 's eyes which was a welcome change ; and , as often as he raised them from his first work of getting the array of business documents into perfect order , he glanced at these things with a feeling of pleasure in his pursuit that was new to him . 
Though not altogether enraptured at the sight of these visitors , Clennam lost no time in opening the counting-house door , and extricating them from the workshop ; a rescue which was rendered the more necessary by Mr. F 's Aunt already stumbling over some impediment , and menacing steam-power as an Institution with a stony reticule she carried . 
`` Good gracious , Arthur , -- I should say Mr. Clennam , far more proper -- the climb we have had to get up here and how ever to get down again without a fire-escape and Mr. F 's Aunt slipping through the steps and bruised all over and you in the machinery and foundry way too only think , and never told us ! '' 
`` Most unkind never to have come back to see us since that day , though naturally it was not to be expected that there should be any attraction at our house and you were much more pleasantly engaged , that 's pretty certain , and is she fair or dark blue eyes or black I wonder , not that I expect that she should be anything but a perfect contrast to me in all particulars for I am a disappointment as I very well know and you are quite right to be devoted no doubt though what I am saying Arthur never mind I hardly know myself Good gracious ! '' 
`` And to think of Doyce and Clennam , and who Doyce can be , '' said Flora ; `` delightful man no doubt and married perhaps or perhaps a daughter , now has he really ? 
`` Dear Arthur -- force of habit , Mr. Clennam every way more delicate and adapted to existing circumstances -- I must beg to be excused for taking the liberty of this intrusion but I thought I might so far presume upon old times for ever faded never more to bloom as to call with Mr. F 's Aunt to congratulate and offer best wishes , A great deal superior to China not to be denied and much nearer though higher up ! '' 
`` I am very happy to see you , '' said Clennam , `` and I thank you , Flora , very much for your kind remembrance . '' 
`` More than I can say myself at any rate , '' returned Flora , `` for I might have been dead and buried twenty distinct times over and no doubt whatever should have been before you had genuinely remembered Me or anything like it in spite of which one last remark I wish to make , one last explanation I wish to offer -- '' `` My dear Mrs. Finching , '' Arthur remonstrated in alarm . 
With such mortal hostility towards the human race did she discharge this missile , that Clennam was quite at a loss how to defend himself ; the rather as he had been already perplexed in his mind by the honor of a visit from this venerable lady , when it was plain she held him in the utmost abhorrence . 
He could not but look at her with disconcertment , as she sat breathing bitterness and scorn , and staring leagues away . 
And , with a rigid movement of her stony reticule -LRB- an appendage of great size , and of a fossil appearance -RRB- , indicated that Clennam was the unfortunate person at whom the challenge was hurled . 
`` One last remark , '' resumed Flora , `` I was going to say I wish to make one last explanation I wish to offer , Mr. F 's Aunt and myself would not have intruded on business hours Mr. F having been in business and though the wine trade still business is equally business call it what you will and business habits are just the same as witness Mr. F himself who had his slippers always on the mat at ten minutes before six in the afternoon and his boots inside the fender at ten minutes before eight in the morning to the moment in all weathers light or dark -- would not therefore have intruded without a motive which being kindly meant it may be hoped will be kindly taken Arthur , Mr. Clennam far more proper , even Doyce and Clennam probably more business-like . '' 
`` Pray say nothing in the way of apology , '' Arthur entreated . 
`` Very polite of you to say so Arthur -- can not remember Mr. Clennam until the word is out , such is the habit of times for ever fled and so true it is that oft in the stilly night ere slumber 's chain has bound people fond memory brings the light of other days around people -- very polite but more polite than true I am afraid , for to go into the machinery business without so much as sending a line or a card to papa -- I do n't say me though there was a time but that is past and stern reality has now my gracious never mind -- does not look like it you must confess . '' 
`` It 's perfectly clear you think so , '' returned Flora , `` for you take it very coolly , if I had n't known it to be China I should have guessed myself the Polar regions , dear Mr. Clennam you are right however and I can not blame you but as to Doyce and Clennam papa 's property being about here we heard it from Pancks and but for him we never should have heard one word about it I am satisfied . '' 
`` What nonsense not to say it Arthur -- Doyce and Clennam -- easier and less trying to me than Mr. Clennam -- when I know it and you know it too and ca n't deny it . '' 
and she gave him another of the old looks . 
`` When you say Her , '' observed Clennam , by this time pretty well bewildered , `` do you mean Mr. F 's -- '' `` My goodness , Arthur -- Doyce and Clennam really easier to me with old remembrances -- who ever heard of Mr. F 's Aunt doing needlework and going out by the day ! '' 
`` Then , Flora , '' said Arthur , with a sudden interest in the conversation , `` Mr. Casby was so kind as to mention Little Dorrit to you , was he ? 
`` Oh you know what papa is , '' rejoined Flora , `` and how aggravatingly he sits looking beautiful and turning his thumbs over and over one another till he makes one giddy if one 's eyes upon him , he said when we were talking of you -- I do n't know who began the subject Arthur -LRB- Doyce and Clennam -RRB- but I am sure it was n't me , at least I hope not but you really must excuse my confessing more on that point . '' 
`` Certainly , '' said Arthur . 
said Arthur , a little disappointed . 
`` Except that when Pancks told us of your having embarked in this business and with difficulty persuaded us that it was really you I said to Mr. F 's Aunt then we would come and ask you if it would be agreeable to all parties that she should be engaged at our house when required for I know she often goes to your Mama 's and I know that your Mama has a very touchy temper Arthur -- Doyce and Clennam -- or I never might have married Mr. F and might have been at this hour but I am running into nonsense . '' 
Poor Flora rejoined with a plain sincerity which became her better than her youngest glances , that she was glad he thought so . 
She said it with so much heart , that Clennam would have given a great deal to buy his old character of her on the spot , and throw it and the mermaid away for ever . 
`` I think , Flora , '' he said , `` that the employment you can give Little Dorrit , and the kindness you can show her -- '' `` Yes and I will , '' said Flora , quickly . 
Once more he put out his hand frankly to poor Flora ; once more poor Flora could n't accept it frankly , found it worth nothing openly , must make the old intrigue and mystery of it . 
As much to her own enjoyment as to his dismay , she covered it with a corner of her shawl as she took it . 
Hush , Arthur , for Mercy 's sake ! '' 
Also , when he said to Clennam , seating himself in the proffered chair , `` And you are in a new business , Mr. Clennam ? 
`` Mrs. Finching has been telling me , sir , '' said Arthur , after making his acknowledgments ; the relict of the late Mr. F meanwhile protesting , with a gesture , against his use of that respectable name ; `` that she hopes occasionally to employ the young needlewoman you recommended to my mother . 
said Clennam . 
`` You are not acquainted , then , '' said Arthur , hazarding a random question , `` with any of her family ? '' 
Despite his presence of mind , however , the speech of Mr. F 's Aunt produced a depressing effect on the little assembly ; firstly , because it was impossible to disguise that Clennam 's unoffending head was the particular temple of reason depreciated , and secondly , because nobody ever knew on these occasions whose Uncle George was referred to , or what spectral presence might be invoked under that appellation . 
But , Mr. F 's Aunt proyed so lively as to take the suggestion in unexpected dudgeon and declare that she would not go ; adding , with several injurious expressions , that if `` He '' -- too evidently meaning Clennam -- wanted to get rid of her , `` let him chuck her out of winder ; '' and urgently expressing her desire to see `` Him '' perform that ceremony . 
Alone again , Clennam became a prey to his old doubts in reference to his mother and Little Dorrit , and revolved the old thoughts and suspicions . 
They were all in his mind , blending themselves with the duties he was mechanically discharging , when a shadow on his papers caused him to look up for the cause . 
Clennam replied with a nod of his head in the affirmative . 
said Clennam . 
`` I am so unfortunate as to have awakened a strong animosity in the breast of that lady , '' said Clennam . 
`` Mr. Clennam , '' he then began , `` I am in want of information , sir . '' 
asked Clennam . 
Arthur looked searchingly at him ; he returned the look . 
This comprehensive summary of his desires was not discharged without some heavy laboring on the part of Mr. Pancks 's machinery . 
With his former doubt whether this dry hard personage were quite in earnest , Clennam again turned his eyes attentively upon his face . 
Say , at my proprietor 's I hear name -- name of young person Mr. Clennam wants to serve . 
Say , both refer to Mr. Clennam . 
`` Well , sir , '' returned Pancks , `` say , I come to him . 
With those prongs of hair sticking up all over his head , and his breath coming and going very hard and short , the busy Pancks fell back a step -LRB- in Tug metaphor , took half a turn astern -RRB- as if to show his dingy hull complete , then forged ahead again , and directed his quick glance by turns into his hat where his note-book was , and into Clennam 's face . 
Mr. Pancks fished up his note-book before the question was put , and buttoning it with care in an inner breast pocket , and looking straight at Clennam all the time , replied with a pause and a puff , `` I want supplementary information of any sort . '' 
Clennam could not withhold a smile , as the panting little steam tug , so useful to that unwieldy ship the Casby , waited on and watched him as if it were seeking an opportunity of running in and rifling him of all it wanted , before he could resist its manoeuvres ; though there was that in Mr. Pancks 's eagerness , too , which awakened many wondering speculations in his mind . 
`` In conclusion , Mr. Pancks , '' said Arthur , `` I have but to say this . 
It may not give you a very flattering idea of my business habits , that I failed to make my terms beforehand , '' continued Clennam ; `` but I prefer to make them a point of honor . 
After that , he stood a little while looking at Clennam , and biting his ten nails all round ; evidently while he fixed in his mind what he had been told , and went over it carefully before the means of supplying a gap in his memory should be no longer at hand . 
said Clennam . 
`` I am , '' said Clennam , `` and I will answer for him . '' 
`` I have been shown so too , '' said Clennam , coldly . 
She was a old and a dear friend , she said particular , of Mr. Clennam , and hoped for to prove herself a useful friend to his friend . 
`` Really so sorry that I should happen to be late on this morning of all mornings because my intention and my wish was to be ready to meet you when you came in and to say that any one that interested Arthur Clennam half so much must interest me and that I gave you the heartiest welcome and was so glad , instead of which they never called me and there I still am snoring I dare say if the truth was known and if you do n't like either cold fowl or hot boiled ham which many people do n't I dare say besides Jews and theirs are scruples of conscience which we must all respect though I must say I wish they had them equally strong when they sell us false articles for real that certainly ai n't worth the money I shall be quite vexed , '' said Flora . 
`` You are come here on the footing of a friend and companion you know if you will let me take that liberty and I should be ashamed of myself indeed if you could come here upon any other , besides which Arthur Clennam spoke in such terms -- you are tired my dear . '' 
`` Romance , however , '' Flora went on , busily arranging Mr. F 's Aunt 's toast , `` as I openly said to Mr. F when he proposed to me and you will be surprised to hear that he proposed seven times once in a hackney coach once in a boat once in a pew once on a donkey at Tunbridge Wells and the rest on his knees , Romance was fled with the early days of Arthur Clennam , our parents tore us asunder we became marble and stern reality usurped the throne , Mr. F said very much to his credit that he was perfectly aware of it and even preferred that state of things accordingly the word was spoken the flat went forth and such is life you see my dear and yet we do not break but bend , pray make a good breakfast while I go in with the tray . '' 
`` You see my dear , '' said Flora , measuring out a spoonful or two of some brown liquid that smelt like brandy , and putting it into her tea , `` I am obliged to be careful to follow the directions of my medical man though the flavor is anything but agreeable being a poor creature and it may be have never recovere the shock received in youth from too much giving way to crying in the next room when separated from Arthur , have you known him long ? '' 
As soon as Little Dorrit comprehended that she had been asked this question -- for which time was necessary , the galloping pace of her new patroness having left her far behind -- she answered that she had known Mr. Clennam ever since his return . 
`` To be sure you could n't have known him before unless you had been in China or had corresponded neither of which is likely , '' returned Flora , `` for travelling-people usually get more or less mahogany and you are not at all so and as to corresponding what about ? 
that 's very true unless tea , so it was at his mother 's was it really that you knew him first , highly sensible and firm but dreadfully severe -- ought to be the mother of the man in the iron mask . '' 
I am sure I am glad to hear it because as Arthur 's mother it 's naturally pleasant to my feelings to have a better opinion of her than I had before , though what she thinks of me when I run on as I am certain to do and she sits glowering at me like Fate in a gocart -- shocking comparison really -- invalid and not her fault -- I never know or can imagine . '' 
`` You must know my dear , '' said Flora , `` but that I have no doubt you know already not only because I have already thrown it out in a general way but because I feel I carry it stamped in burning what 's his names upon my brow that before I was introduced to the late Mr. F I had been engaged to Arthur Clennam -- Mr. Clennam in public where reserve is necessary Arthur here -- we were all in all to one another it was the morning of life it was bliss it was frenzy it was everything else of that sort in the highest degree , when rent asunder we turned to stone in which capacity Arthur went to China and I became the statue bride of the late Mr. F. '' Flora , uttering these words in a deep voice , enjoyed herself immensely . 
`` I revere the memory of Mr. F as an estimable man and most indulgent husband , only necessary to mention Asparagus and it appeared or to hint at any little delicate thing to drink and it came like magic in a pint bottle it was not ecstacy but it was comfort , I returned to papa 's roof and lived secluded if not happy during some years until one day papa came smoothly blundering in and said that Arthur Clennam awaited me below , I went below and found him ask me not what I found him except that he was still unmarried still unchanged ! '' 
`` Ask me not , '' said Flora , `` if I love him still or if he still loves me or what the end is to be or when , we are surrounded by watchful eyes and it may be that we are destined to pine asunder it may be never more to be reunited not a word not a breath not a look to betray us all must be secret as the tomb wonder not therefore that even if I should seem comparatively cold to Arthur or Arthur should seem comparatively cold to me we have fatal reasons it is enough if we understand them hush ! '' 
repeated Flora , `` I have now told you all , confidence is established between us hush , for Arthur 's sake I will always be a friend to you my dear girl and in Arthur 's name you may always rely upon me . '' 
`` It is only that I feel a little overcome by your kindness , and by Mr. Clennam 's kindness in confiding me to one he has known and loved so long . '' 
Quietly pursuing her task , she asked Flora if Mr. Clennam had told her where she lived ? 
When Flora replied in the negative , Little Dorrit said that she understood why he had been so delicate , but that she felt sure he would approve of her confiding her secret to Flora , and that she would therefore do so now with Flora 's permission . 
`` Why , o'course Mr. Clennam . 
He 's in your father 's room and he says to me , Maggy , will you be so kind as go and say it 's only me . '' 
Against these obstacles , the lame foreigner with the stick had to make head as well as he could ; not absolutely single-handed , because Mr. Arthur Clennam had recommended him to the Plornishes -LRB- he lived at the top of the same house -RRB- , but still at heavy odds . 
However , the Bleeding Hearts were kind hearts ; and when they saw the little fellow cheerily limping about with a good-humoured face , doing no harm , drawing no knives , committing no outrageous immoralities , living chiefly on farinaceous and milk diet , and playing with Mrs. Plornish 's children of an evening , they began to think that although he could never hope to be an Englishman , still it would be hard to visit that affliction on his head . 
Mr. Clennam got it him to do , and gives him odd jobs besides , in at the Works next door -- makes 'em for him , in short , when he knows he wants 'em . '' 
`` And what does he do with himself , now , when he ai n't hard at it ? '' 
`` Why , not much as yet , sir , on accounts I suppose of not being able to walk much ; but he goes about the Yard , and he chats without particular understanding or being understood , and he plays with the children , and he sits in the sun -- he 'll sit down anywhere , as if it was a armchair -- and he 'll sing , and he 'll laugh ! '' 
`` He looks to me as if every tooth in his head was always laughing . '' 
`` But whenever he gets to the top of the steps at t ` other end of the Yard , '' said Mrs. Plornish , `` he 'll peep out in the curiousest way ! 
So that some of us thinks he 's peeping out towards where his own country is , and some of us thinks he 's looking for somebody he do n't want to see , and some of us do n't know what to think . '' 
If Arthur Clennam had not arrived at that wise decision firmly to restrain himself from loving Pet , he would have lived on in a state of much perplexity , involving difficult struggles with his own heart . 
Therefore Mr. Henry Gowan would have clouded Clennam 's mind , and would have been far oftener present to it than more agreeable persons and subjects , but for the great prudence of his decision aforesaid . 
As it was , Mr. Gowan seemed transferred to Daniel Doyce 's mind ; at all events , it so happened that it usually fell to Mr. Doyce 's turn , rather than to Clennam 's , to speak of him in the friendly conversations they held together . 
Clennam had excused himself . 
He put in his head at the door of Clennam 's sitting-room to say Good night . 
said Clennam . 
But for the notable resolution he had made , Clennam really might not have known what he had been reading ; really might not have had his eyes upon the book for an hour past , though it lay open before him . 
He shut it up , rather quickly . 
he asked . 
asked Clennam , gaily . 
`` There were five of us , '' returned his partner . 
said Clennam . 
cried Clennam , with unusual vivacity . 
`` Yes , yes , '' returned Clennam ; `` I remember now . '' 
`` Miss Meagles is quite attached to -- the -- dog , '' observed Clennam . 
`` Quite so , '' assented his partner . 
There was a gap in the conversation , which Clennam devoted to winding up his watch . 
`` Perhaps you are a little hasty in your judgment , '' he said . 
`` Not difficult for me , I think , Clennam , '' returned his partner . 
`` I see him bringing present anxiety , and , I fear , future sorrow , into my old friend 's house . 
I see him wearing deeper lines into my old friend 's face , the nearer he draws to , and the oftener he looks at , the face of his daughter . 
In short , I see him with a net about the pretty and affectionate creature whom he will never make happy . '' 
`` We do n't know , '' said Clennam , almost in the tone of a man in pain , `` that he will not make her happy . '' 
`` We do n't know , '' returned his partner , `` that the earth will last another hundred years , but we think it highly probable . '' 
said Clennam , `` we must be hopeful , and we must at least try to be , if not generous -LRB- which , in this case , we have no opportunity of being -RRB- , just . 
`` That , '' said Clennam , `` would be far beyond our power of correction . '' 
`` Therefore , in a word , '' said Clennam , `` we should make up our minds that it is not worthy of us to say any ill of Mr. Gowan . 
`` But , if I am not sure of myself , I am sure of you , Clennam , and I know what an upright man you are , and how much to be respected . 
He shook his hand in saying this , as if there had been something serious at the bottom of their conversation ; and they separated . 
If Clennam had ever admitted the forbidden passion into his breast , this period might have been a period of real trial ; under the actual circumstances , doubtless it was nothing -- nothing . 
Equally , if his heart had given entertainment to that prohibited guest , his silent fighting of his way through the mental condition of this period might have been a little meritorious . 
In the constant effort not to be betrayed into a new phase of the besetting sin of his experience , the pursuit of selfish objects by low and small means , and to hold instead to some high principle of honor and generosity , there might have been a little merit . 
He preserved his perfect serenity of manner on all occasions , as if the possibility of Clennam 's presuming to have debated the great question were too distant and ridiculous to be imagined . 
He had always an affability to bestow on Clennam and an ease to treat him with , which might of itself -LRB- in the supposititious case of his not having taken that sagacious course -RRB- have been a very uncomfortable element in his state of mind . 
`` I quite regret you were not with us yesterday , '' said Mr. Henry Gowan , calling on Clennam next morning . 
So he had heard , Arthur said . 
Here was one of the many little rough points that had a tendency to grate on Clennam 's hearing . 
He put it aside by merely repeating that he had a high regard for Mr. Doyce . 
Upon my life , Mr. Clennam , one feels desperately worldly and wicked , in comparison with such an innocent creature . 
`` Thank you for the compliment , '' said Clennam , ill at case ; `` you are too , I hope ? '' 
`` I had rather thought , '' said Clennam , `` that the principle you mention was chiefly acted on by -- '' `` By the Barnacles ? '' 
Very much , '' said Clennam , drily . 
`` And after all , '' cried Gowan , with that characteristic balancing of his which reduced everything in the wide world to the same light weight , `` though I ca n't deny that the Circumlocution Office may ultimately shipwreck everybody and everything , still , that will probably not be in our time -- and it 's a school for gentlemen . '' 
`` It 's a very dangerous , unsatisfactory , and expensive school to the people who pay to keep the pupils there , I am afraid , '' said Clennam , shaking his head . 
I want to present you to my mother , Mr. Clennam . 
In nobody 's state of mind , there was nothing Clennam would have desired less , or would have been more at a loss how to avoid . 
What could Clennam say after this ? 
His retiring character included a great deal that was simple in the best sense , because unpractised and unused ; and , in his simplicity and modesty , he could only say that he was happy to place himself at Mr. Gowan 's disposal . 
Under the influence of this injury -LRB- and perhaps of some little straitness and irregularity in the matter of wages -RRB- , he had grown neglectful of his person and morose in mind ; and now beholding in Clennam one of the degraded body of his oppressors , received him with ignominy . 
But , as they had all been in the British Embassy way in sundry parts of the earth , and as a British Embassy can not better establish a character with the Circumlocution Office than by treating its compatriots with illimitable contempt -LRB- else it would become like the Embassies of other countries -RRB- , Clennam felt that on the whole they let him off lightly . 
It was then that Clennam learned for the first time what little pivots this great world goes round upon . 
And this was the feature of the conversation which impressed Clennam , as a man not used to it , very disagreeably : making him doubt if it were quite right to sit there , silently hearing a great nation narrowed to such little bounds . 
Mr. Henry Gowan seemed to have a malicious pleasure in playing off the three talkers against each other , and in seeing Clennam startled by what they said . 
Having as supreme a contempt for the class that had thrown him off , as for the class that had not taken him on , he had no personal disquiet in anything that passed . 
His healthy state of mind appeared even to derive a gratification from Clennam 's position of embarrassment and isolation among the good company ; and if Clennam had been in that condition with which Nobody was incessantly contending , he would have suspected it , and would have struggled with the suspicion as a meanness , even while he sat at the table . 
He finished by freezing a cup of tea for his own drinking , and retiring at his lowest temperature . 
Then Mrs. Gowan , who had been accustomed in her days of state to retain a vacant arm-chair beside her to which to summon her devoted slaves , one by one , for short audiences as marks of her especial favor , invited Clennam with a turn of her fan to approach the presence . 
He obeyed , and took the tripod recently vacated by Lord Lancaster Stiltstalking . 
`` Mr. Clennam , '' said Mrs. Gowan , `` apart from the happiness I have in becoming known to you , though in this odiously inconvenient place -- a mere barrack -- there is a subject on which I am dying to speak to you . 
Clennam inclined his head , as a generally suitable reply to what he did not yet quite understand . 
`` First , '' said Mrs. Gowan , `` now is she really pretty ? '' 
In nobody 's difficulties , he would have found it very difficult to answer ; very difficult indeed to smile , and say `` Who ? '' 
`` Miss Meagles , '' said Clennam , `` is very beautiful . '' 
Clennam replied `` Excuse me , I doubt if I understand your expression . '' 
`` I really can not say , '' said Clennam , `` where my friend Mr. Meagles first presented Mr. Henry Gowan to his daughter . '' 
`` Really , ma'am , '' returned Clennam , `` I am so undoubtedly plebeian myself , that I do not feel qualified to judge . '' 
Clennam , after a moment 's stiffness , bowed . 
You see , Mr. Clennam , this thing has been going on for a long time , and I find no improvement in it . 
`` Pardon me , '' returned Clennam , `` but I am not in Mr. Henry Gowan 's confidence . 
But there are unexpressed confidences , Mr. Clennam ; and as you have been together intimately among these people , I can not doubt that a confidence of that sort exists in the present case . 
shrugging her shoulders , `` a very respectable pursuit , I dare say , and some artists are , as artists , quite superior persons ; still , we never yet in our family have gone beyond an Amateur , and it is a pardonable weakness to feel a little -- '' As Mrs. Gowan broke off to heave a sigh , Clennam , however resolute to be magnanimous , could not keep down the thought that there was mighty little danger of the family 's ever going beyond an Amateur , even as it was . 
`` Henry , '' the mother resumed , `` is self-willed and resolute ; and as these people naturally strain every nerve to catch him , I can entertain very little hope , Mr. Clennam , that the thing will be broken off . 
As she shrugged her shoulders , Clennam stiffly bowed again . 
With an uneasy flush upon his face , and hesitation in his manner , he then said , in a still lower tone than he had adopted yet : `` Mrs. Gowan , I scarcely know how to acquit myself of what I feel to be a duty , and yet I must ask you for your kind consideration in attempting to discharge it . 
You have supposed Mr. Meagles and his family to strain every nerve , I think you said -- '' `` Every nerve , '' repeated Mrs. Gowan , looking at him in calm obstinacy , with her green fan between her face and the fire . 
`` Now that is so far , '' said Arthur , `` from being the case , that I know Mr. Meagles to be unhappy in this matter ; and to have interposed all reasonable obstacles , with the hope of putting an end to it . '' 
Mrs. Gowan shut up her great green fan , tapped him on the arm with it , and tapped her smiling lips . 
Arthur watched her face for some explanation of what she did mean . 
`` Are you really serious , Mr. Clennam ? 
Arthur did not see ; and said so . 
Oh , shrewd people , Mr. Clennam : evidently people of business ! 
It ought to have been a very profitable Bank , if he had much to do with its management . 
`` I beg and entreat you , ma'am -- '' Arthur interposed . 
`` Oh Mr. Clennam , can you really be so credulous ! '' 
It made such a painful impression upon him to hear her talking in this haughty tone , and to see her patting her contemptuous lips with her fan , that he said very earnestly , `` Believe me , ma'am , this is unjust , a perfectly groundless suspicion . '' 
`` Not suspicion , Mr. Clennam , Certainty . 
At this opportune moment , the cards were thrown up , and Mr. Henry Gowan came across the room saying , `` Mother , if you can spare Mr. Clennam for this time , we have a long way to go , and it 's getting late . '' 
Mr. Clennam thereupon rose , as he had no choice but to do ; and Mrs. Gowan showed him , to the last , the same look and the same tapped contemptuous lips . 
`` Not at all , '' said Clennam . 
Gowan , driving , lighted a cigar ; Clennam declined one . 
Do what he would , he fell into such a mood of abstraction , that Gowan said again , `` I am very much afraid my mother has bored you ? '' 
He would have thought of the morning when he first saw him rooting out the stones with his heel , and would have asked himself `` Does he jerk me out of the path in the same careless , cruel way ? '' 
Then , looking at the dark road and its uncertain objects , he would have gradually trailed off again into thinking , `` Where are we driving , he and I , I wonder , on the darker road of life ? 
`` Believe me , not at all , '' said Clennam . 
A frequently recurring doubt , whether Mr. Pancks 's desire to collect information relative to the Dorrit family could have any possible bearing on the misgivings he had imparted to his mother on his return from his long exile , caused Arthur Clennam much uneasiness at this period . 
That he had a specific object Clennam could not doubt . 
On his opening the door , Mr. Meagles stopped , faced round , and said , `` Clennam ! 
cried Clennam , in amazement . 
I 'll not disguise from you , Clennam , that those conversations have not been of as bright a kind as I could wish ; they have referred to our going away again . 
`` An object , '' said Mr. Meagles , after a moment 's pause , `` that I will not disguise from you , either , Clennam . 
Mother and I have done all we could to get the better of it , Clennam . 
Clennam said that he could easily believe it . 
continued Mr. Meagles in an apologetic way , `` I admit as a practical man , and I am sure Mother would admit as a practical woman , that we do , in families , magnify our troubles and make mountains of our molehills , in a way that is calculated to be rather trying to people who look on -- to mere outsiders you know , Clennam . 
`` I do indeed think so , '' returned Clennam , in most emphatic recognition of this very moderate expectation . 
`` Thank you , Clennam , '' said Mr. Meagles , shaking him by the hand ; `` you have often seen them together . 
`` She was so used to do it , Clennam , that even then , such a picture of passion as you never saw , she stopped short , looked me full in the face , and counted -LRB- as I made out -RRB- to eight . 
You want , '' said Clennam , after a moment 's reflection , `` to see her ? 
You yourself , '' said Mr. Meagles , persuasively , as if the provocation to be angry were not his own at all , `` want to give the poor passionate girl another chance , I know , Clennam . '' 
`` It would be strange and hard indeed if I did not , '' said Clennam , `` when you are all so forgiving . 
`` Here is no number , '' said Arthur , looking over it . 
`` No number , my dear Clennam ? '' 
returned his friend . 
However , it 's worth an inquiry ; and as I would rather make it in company than alone , and as you too were a fellow-traveller of that immovable woman 's , I thought perhaps -- '' Clennam finished the sentence for him by taking up his hat again , and saying he was ready . 
Perhaps because they kept the house separate in his mind , or perhaps because Mr. Meagles and himself had twice agreed in passing , `` It is clear she do n't live there , '' Clennam now proposed that they should go back and try that house before finally going away . 
`` Once more , '' said Clennam , and knocked again . 
`` Excuse our troubling you , '' said Clennam . 
`` This is odd , Clennam , '' said Mr. Meagles , softly . 
`` Odd enough , '' assented Clennam , in the same tone , `` but we have succeeded ; that 's the main point . 
`` I think my friend would say , Miss Wade , '' Arthur Clennam interposed , seeing Mr. Meagles rather at a loss , `` for the passionate sense that sometimes comes upon the poor girl , of being at a disadvantage . 
She stood by the table so perfectly composed and still after this acknowledgment of his remark , that Mr. Meagles stared at her under a sort of fascination , and could not even look to Clennam to make another move . 
After waiting , awkwardly enough , for some moments , Arthur said : `` Perhaps it would be well if Mr. Meagles could see her , Miss Wade ? '' 
`` When you have concluded -- Mr. Clennam , perhaps you will induce your friend -- '' `` Not without another effort , '' said Mr. Meagles , stoutly . 
`` Do not reject the hope , the certainty , this kind man offers you , '' said Clennam , in a low emphatic voice . 
As Clennam followed , she said to him , with the same external composure and in the same level voice , but with a smile that is only seen on cruel faces : a very faint smile , lifting the nostril , scarcely touching the lips , and not breaking away gradually , but instantly dismissed when done with : `` I hope the wife of your dear friend , Mr. Gowan , may be happy in the contrast of her extraction to this girl 's and mine , and in the high good fortune that awaits her . '' 
Not resting satisfied with the endeavours he had made to recover his lost charge , Mr. Meagles addressed a letter of remonstrance , breathing nothing but goodwill , not only to her , but to Miss Wade too . 
That worthy lady being unable to obtain one , and being stedfastly denied admission , Mr. Meagles besought Arthur to essay once more what he could do . 
Mr. Meagles and his family , under these combined discouragements , had begun reluctantly to give up Tattycoram as irrecoverable , when the new and active firm of Doyce and Clennam , in their private capacities , went down on a Saturday to stay at the cottage until Monday . 
Clennam had stopped , not for the first time by many times , to look about him and suffer what he saw to sink into his soul , as the shadows , looked at , seemed to sink deeper and deeper into the water . 
He was slowly resuming his way , when he saw a figure in the path before him which he had , perhaps , already associated with the evening and its impressions . 
She had some roses in her hand , and seemed to have stood still on seeing him , waiting for him . 
Her face was towards him , and she appeared to have been coming from the opposite direction . 
There was a flutter in her manner , which Clennam had never seen in it before ; and as he came near her , it entered his mind all at once that she was there of a set purpose to speak to him . 
She gave him her hand , and said , `` You wonder to see me here by myself ? 
As Clennam said that it was his favourite way , he felt her hand falter on his arm , and saw the roses shake . 
`` Will you let me give you one , Mr. Clennam ? 
His own hand shook , as he accepted a rose or two from hers , and thanked her . 
Whether they turned into it on his movement or on hers , matters little . 
He never knew how that was . 
`` It is very grave here , '' said Clennam , `` but very pleasant at this hour . 
In her simple garden-hat and her light summer dress , with her rich brown hair naturally clustering about her , and her wonderful eyes raised to his for a moment , with a look in which regard for him and trustfulness in him were strikingly blended with a kind of timid sorrow for him , she was so beautiful , that it was well for his peace -- or ill for his peace , he did not quite know which -- that he had made that vigorous resolution he had so often thought about . 
She broke a momentary silence by enquiring if he knew that papa had been thinking of another tour abroad ? 
He said he had heard it mentioned . 
`` Mr. Clennam , '' she said , hesitating more timidly yet , and speaking so low that he bent his head to hear her . 
`` Mr. Gowan , '' said Arthur Clennam , `` has reason to be very happy . 
She wept , as she tried to thank him . 
He reassured her , took her hand as it lay with the trembling roses in it on his arm , took the remaining roses from it , and put it to his lips . 
At that time , it seemed to him , he first finally resigned the dying hope that had flickered in nobody 's heart , so much to its pain and trouble ; and from that time he became in his own eyes , as to any similar hope or prospect , a very much older man who had done with that part of life . 
Then he asked her , in a voice of cheerful kindness , was there anything else that she would say to him as her friend and her father 's friend , many years older than herself ; was there any trust she would repose in him , any service she would ask of him , any little aid to her happiness that she could give him the lasting gratification of believing it was in his power to render ? 
She was going to answer , when she was so touched by some little hidden sorrow or sympathy -- what could it have been ? 
-- that she said , bursting into tears , again : `` O , Mr. Clennam ! 
Good , generous , Mr. Clennam , pray tell me you do not blame me . '' 
said Clennam . 
After clasping both her hands upon his arm , and looking confidentially up into his face , with some hurried words to the effect that she thanked him from her heart -LRB- as indeed she did , if it be the source of earnestness -RRB- , she gradually composed herself , with now and then a word of encouragement from him , as they walked on slowly and almost silently under the darkening trees . 
`` And , now , Minnie Gowan , '' at length , said Clennam , smiling ; `` will you ask me nothing ? '' 
You can hardly think it perhaps , dear Mr. Clennam , '' she spoke with great agitation , `` seeing me going from it of my own free will and choice , but I do so dearly love it ! '' 
`` I am sure of that , '' said Clennam . 
`` My dear girl , '' said Clennam , `` it is in the natural progress and change of time . 
Pet 's affectionate heart was overcharged , and she sobbed while she pictured what would happen . 
And it is then , Mr. Clennam , then more than at any time , that I beg and entreat you to remember him , and sometimes to keep him company when you can spare a little while ; and to tell him that you know I was fonder of him , when I left him , than I ever was in all my life . 
For there is nobody -- he told me so himself when he talked to me this very day -- there is nobody he likes so well as you , or trusts so much . '' 
A clue to what had passed between the father and daughter dropped like a heavy stone into the well of Clennam 's heart , and swelled the water to his eyes . 
He said , cheerily , but not quite so cheerily as he tried to say , that it should be done : that he gave her his faithful promise . 
`` If I do not speak of mamma , '' said Pet , more moved by , and more pretty in , her innocent grief , than Clennam could trust himself even now to consider -- for which reason he counted the trees between them , and the fading light as they slowly diminished in number -- `` it is because mamma will understand me better in this action , and will feel my loss in a different way , and will look forward in a different manner . 
Let Minnie trust him , Clennam said , let Minnie trust him to do all she wished . 
`` And , dear Mr. Clennam , '' said Minnie , `` because papa and one whom I need not name , do not fully appreciate and understand one another yet , as they will by-and-by ; and because it will be the duty , and the pride , and pleasure of my new life , to draw them to a better knowledge of one another , and to be a happiness to one another , and to be proud of one another , and to love one another , both loving me so dearly ; O , as you are a kind , true man ! 
So Clennam thought . 
So he did not say ; it was too late . 
He bound himself to do all she asked , and she knew full well that he would do it . 
Speaking to him with her eyes lifted up to his , and with the hand that had lately rested on his sleeve tremblingly touching one of the roses in his breast as an additional appeal to him , she said : `` Dear Mr. Clennam , in my happiness -- for I am happy , though you have seen me crying -- I can not bear to leave any cloud between us . 
He stooped to meet the guileless face that met his without shrinking . 
He kissed it , and answered , Heaven knew that he had nothing to forgive . 
As he stooped to meet the innocent face once again , she whispered `` Good bye ! '' 
and he repeated it . 
It was taking leave of all his old hopes -- all nobody 's old restless doubts . 
Hearing Pet 's name among them , Clennam called out `` She is here , with me . '' 
Mr. Meagles , Doyce , and Clennam , without speaking , walked up and down on the brink of the river , in the light of the rising moon , for a few minutes ; and then Doyce lingered behind , and went into the house . 
Mr. Meagles and Clennam walked up and down together for a few minutes more without speaking , until at length the former broke silence . 
`` Arthur , '' said he , using that familiar address for the first time in their communication , `` do you remember my telling you , as we walked up and down one hot morning , looking over the harbor at Marseilles , that Pet 's baby sister who was dead seemed to Mother and me to have grown as she had grown , and changed as she had changed ? '' 
`` Arthur , '' said Mr. Meagles , much subdued , `` I carry that fancy further to-night . 
`` Thank you , '' murmured Clennam , `` thank you ! '' 
And pressed his hand . 
Do you know such a name as Clennam about here ? '' 
Mr. Rigaud , not at all put out by this omission on the part of the correspondents of the house of Clennam and Co , took his pocket-book from his breast pocket , selected a letter from that receptacle , and handed it to Mr. Flintwinch . 
arose and went back to the house of Clennam and Co. . 
Mr. Flintwinch presented the gentleman commended to the consideration of Clennam and Co. . 
They ascended to the great garret bedroom , which Arthur had occupied on the night of his return . 
He postponed looking at Mr. Rigaud again until this accidental inequality was removed by their having entered the late Mr. Clennam 's room . 
But , then twisting himself suddenly round upon him , he found his look unchanged . 
`` Mr. Clennam , deceased . 
`` The letter is from Mr. Clennam , sir -- it 's the answer -- and the message was , sir , that Mr. Clennam also sent his compliments , and word that he would do himself the pleasure of calling this afternoon , hoping to see you , and likewise '' attention more distracted than before `` Miss Amy . '' 
Go to your room , Amy , and make your face look comfortable and pleasant to receive Mr. Clennam . '' 
`` I would far rather not see Mr. Clennam . '' 
Mr. Clennam is a very gentlemanly man -- very gentlemanly . 
I could n't think of your not being here to receive Mr. Clennam , my dear , especially this afternoon . 
These preparations were in an advanced stage of progress , and his daughter Amy had come back with her work , when Clennam presented himself . 
Whom he most graciously received , and besought to join their meal . 
`` Amy , my love , you know Mr. Clennam even better than I have the happiness of doing . 
Fanny , my dear , you are acquainted with Mr. Clennam . '' 
Fanny acknowledged him haughtily ; the position she tacitly took up in all such cases being that there was a vast conspiracy to insult the family by not understanding it , or sufficiently deferring to it , and here was one of the conspirators . 
`` This , Mr. Clennam , you must know , is an old pensioner of mine , old Nandy , a very faithful old man . '' 
-LRB- He always spoke of him as an object of great antiquity , but he was two or three years younger than himself . -RRB- 
said Arthur Clennam . 
`` You would be more glad if you knew his many good qualities , Mr. Clennam . '' 
`` I hope I shall come to know them , through knowing him , '' said Arthur , secretly pitying the bowed and submissive figure . 
`` It is a holiday with him , and he comes to see his old friends who are always glad to see him , '' observed the Father of the Marshalsea . 
Then he added behind his hand , `` Union , poor old fellow . 
Clennam had never seen anything like his magnanimous protection by that other Father , he of the Marshalsea ; and was lost in the contemplation of its many wonders . 
I wish you good-night , Mr. Clennam . '' 
With that he stood on the landing , watching the old man down ; and when he came into the room again , said , with a solemn satisfaction on him , `` A melancholy sight that , Mr. Clennam , though one has the consolation of knowing that he does n't feel it himself . 
As Clennam had a purpose in remaining , he said what he could responsive to these sentiments , and stood at the window with their enunciator , while Maggy and her Little Mother washed the tea-service and cleared it away . 
He noticed that his companion stood at the window with the air of an affable and accessible Sovereign , and that , when any of his people in the yard below looked up , his recognition of their salutes just stopped short of a blessing . 
Arthur , still having his purpose , still remained . 
If you refer to the presence of any visitor you have here -- I say , if you refer to that , '' answered Tip , jerking his head with emphasis towards his shoulder nearest Clennam , `` I see ! '' 
No , Mr. Clennam , I beg , sir . 
With those words he put on his hat and went out , accompanied by Miss Fanny ; who did not consider it spirited on her part to take leave of Clennam with any less opposing demonstration than a stare , importing that she had always known him for one of the large body of conspirators . 
It was the gentleman Clennam had seen on the night of his own accidental detention there , who had that impalpable grievance about the misappropriated Fund on which the Marshal was supposed to batten . 
`` Such , you see , Mr. Clennam , '' said the Father , `` are the incongruities of my position here . 
Clennam besought him not to delay a moment . 
`` Amy , my dear , if you can persuade Mr. Clennam to stay longer , I can leave the honors of our poor apology for an establishment , with confidence in your hands , and perhaps you may do something towards erasing from Mr. Clennam 's mind the -- ha -- untoward and unpleasant circumstance which has occurred since tea-time . 
Clennam assured him that it had made no impression on his mind , and therefore required no erasure . 
`` My dear sir , '' said the Father , with a removal of his black cap and a grasp of Clennam 's hand , combining to express the safe receipt of his note and enclosure that afternoon , `` Heaven ever bless you ! '' 
So , at last , Clennam 's purpose in remaining was attained , and he could speak to Little Dorrit with nobody by . 
As Arthur Clennam moved to sit down by the side of Little Dorrit , she trembled so that she had much ado to hold her needle . 
Clennam gently put his hand upon her work , and said `` Dear Little Dorrit , let me lay it down . '' 
She yielded it to him , and he put it aside . 
Her hands were then nervously clasping together , but he took one of them . 
`` But I heard only to-day , '' said Clennam , `` by mere accident , of your having been with those good people close by me . 
He saw her trembling little form and her downeast face , and the eyes that drooped the moment they were raised to his -- he saw them almost with as much concern as tenderness . 
Softly withdrawing her hand , and laying it in her other hand , she sat before him with her head bent and her whole form trembling . 
`` My own Little Dorrit , '' said Clennam , compassionately . 
Clennam waited some little while before he spoke again . 
`` I can not bear , '' he said then , `` to see you weep ; but I hope this is a relief to an overcharged heart . '' 
said Clennam , smiling and touching her lips with his hand . 
In raising her eyes with these words , she observed his face more nearly than she had done yet , and said , with a quick change of tone , `` You have not been ill , Mr. Clennam ? '' 
she asked him , anxiously . 
It fell to Clennam , now , to be not quite certain how to answer . 
He said in reply : `` To speak the truth , I have been a little troubled , but it is over . 
He never thought that she saw in him what no one else could see . 
He never thought that in the whole world there were no other eyes that looked upon him with the same light and strength as hers . 
`` But it brings me to something that I wish to say , '' he continued , `` and therefore I will not quarrel even with my own face for telling tales and being unfaithful to me . 
Did you think -- '' `` I never quite thought so , '' said Little Dorrit , more to herself than him . 
said Clennam , abiding by the feeling that had fallen on him in the avenue on the night of the roses , the feeling that he was an older man , who had done with that tender part of life , `` I found out my mistake , and I thought about it a little -- in short , a good deal -- and got wiser . 
If he had known the sharpness of the pain he caused the patient heart , in speaking thus ! 
While doing it , too , with the purpose of easing and serving her . 
If he had known , if he had known ! 
If he could have seen the dagger in his hand , and the cruel wounds it struck in the faithful bleeding breast of his Little Dorrit ! 
He heard the thrill in her voice , he saw her earnest face , he saw her clear true eyes , he saw the quickened bosom that would have joyfully thrown itself before him to receive a mortal wound directed at his breast , with the dying cry , `` I love him ! '' 
and the remotest suspicion of the truth never dawned upon his mind . 
He saw the devoted little creature with her worn shoes , in her common dress , in her jail-home ; a slender child in body , a strong heroine in soul ; and the light of her domestic story made all else dark to him . 
They had been speaking in low voices ; more because it was natural to what they said , to adopt that tone , than with any care to reserve it from Maggy at her work . 
said Clennam , in some surprise . 
Arthur looked at Little Dorrit for help to comprehend this , and was struck by seeing her so timid and red . 
But , when she told him that it was only a Fairy Tale she had one day made up for Maggy , and that there was nothing in it which she would n't be ashamed to tell again to anybody else , even if she could remember it , he left the subject where it was . 
However , he returned to his own subject , by first entreating her to see him oftener , and to remember that it was impossible to have a stronger interest in her welfare than he had , or to be more set upon promoting it than he was . 
When she answered fervently , she well knew that , she never forgot it , he touched upon his second and more delicate point -- the suspicion he had formed . 
`` Little Dorrit , '' he said , taking her hand again , and speaking lower than he had spoken yet , so that even Maggy in the small room could not hear him , `` another word . 
She shook her head , after each slow repetition of the word , with an air of quiet desolation that he remembered long afterwards . 
The time came when he remembered it well , long afterwards , within those prison walls ; within that very room . 
She said this , looking at him with her work-worn hands folded together , and in the same resigned accents as before . 
She seemed to catch at these words -- that he remembered , too , long afterwards -- and said , more brightly , `` Yes , Mr. Clennam ; yes , you may ! '' 
Before Maggy could open the door , Mr. Pancks , opening it from without , stood without a hat and with his bare head in the wildest condition , looking at Clennam and Little Dorrit , over her shoulder . 
At first , Clennam supposed him to be intoxicated . 
But , he soon perceived that though he might be a little the worse -LRB- or better -RRB- for ale , the staple of his excitement was not brewed from malt , or distilled from any grain or berry . 
Mr. Clennam I heard was here , from Mr. Dorrit . 
Clennam thanked him , and said he was glad to see him so gay . 
He seemed to have an insatiate delight in appealing to her , and looking at her ; excitedly sticking his hair up at the same moment , like a dark species of cockatoo . 
She was half afraid of him , and irresolute what to say . 
He laughed , with a nod towards Clennam . 
We agreed that you should n't take on to mind me before people , but we did n't mean Mr. Clennam . 
He 's one of us . 
He 's in it . 
A n't you , Mr. Clennam ? 
The excitement of this strange creature was fast communicating itself to Clennam . 
`` Very generous of you , '' she returned , noticing another of the quick looks between the two . 
She was thrown into such a confusion by his manner , or rather by Clennam 's growing understanding of his manner -LRB- for she looked to him after every fresh appeal and cockatoo demonstration on the part of Mr. Pancks -RRB- , that she only moved her lips in answer , without forming any word . 
Mr. Clennam , you and I made a bargain . 
He rapidly shook her by both hands , and puffed down stairs . 
Arthur followed him with such a hurried step , that he had very nearly tumbled over him on the last landing , and rolled him down into the yard . 
Arthur demanded , when they burst out there both together . 
With those words he presented another man without a hat , and also with a cigar , and also surrounded with a halo of ale and tobacco smoke , which man , though not so excited as himself , was in a state which would have been akin to lunacy but for its fading into sober method when compared with the rampancy of Mr. Pancks . 
`` Mr. Clennam , Mr. Rugg , '' said Pancks , `` Stop a moment . 
`` I am the clearer for that , '' he gasped to Clennam standing astonished . 
Alighting on his feet , he took Clennam by the button-hole , led him behind the pump , and pantingly produced from his pocket a bundle of papers . 
said Clennam in a whisper . 
said Clennam to himself . 
You shall tell her , Mr. Clennam . 
Resigning herself to inevitable fate , by making the best of those people the Miggleses , and submitting her philosophy to the draught upon it , of which she had foreseen the likelihood in her interview with Arthur , Mrs. Gowan handsomely resolved not to oppose her son 's marriage . 
She had already called Arthur Clennam to bear witness to this fable , as a friend of the Meagles family ; and she followed up the move by now impounding the family itself for the same purpose . 
This guest was Clennam . 
But , Clennam had made a promise he held sacred , among the trees that summer night , and , in the chivalry of his heart , regarded it as binding him to many implied obligations . 
In forgetfulness of himself , and delicate service to her on all occasions , he was never to fail ; to begin it , he answered Mr. Meagles cheerfully , `` I shall come , of course . '' 
His partner , Daniel Doyce , was something of a stumbling-block in Mr. Meagles 's way , the worthy gentleman being not at all clear in his own anxious mind but that the mingling of Daniel with official Barnacleism might produce some explosive combination , even at a marriage breakfast . 
To Mr. Henry Gowan , as the time approached , Clennam tried to convey by all quiet and unpretending means , that he was frankly and disinterestedly desirous of tendering him any friendship he would accept . 
`` You see , Clennam , '' he happened to remark in the course of conversation one day , when they were walking near the Cottage within a week of the marriage . 
`` Upon my word , '' said Clennam , a little embarrassed , `` I scarcely know how . '' 
Clennam was beginning , `` But on the other hand -- '' when Gowan took him up . 
Clennam thought . 
And as he thought it , felt ashamed of himself . -RRB- 
Clennam thought -LRB- and as he thought it , again felt ashamed of himself -RRB- , was this notion of being disappointed in life , an assertion of station which the bridegroom brought into the family as his property , having already carried it detrimentally into his pursuit ? 
`` It lies fair before you now , '' said Arthur . 
`` Full of interest and ambition , I conceive , '' said Clennam . 
asked Clennam . 
Arthur reasoned . 
`` What a good fellow you are , Clennam ! '' 
exclaimed the other , stopping to look at him , as if with irrepressible admiration . 
It would have been so cruel if he had meant it , that Clennam firmly resolved to believe he did not mean it . 
Gowan , without pausing , laid his hand upon his shoulder , and laughingly and lightly went on : `` Clennam , I do n't like to dispel your generous visions , and I would give any money -LRB- if I had any -RRB- to live in such a rose-colored mist . 
Whatever he had heard , and whether it deserved that name or another , it sank into Clennam 's mind . 
It so took root there , that he began to fear Henry Gowan would always be a trouble to him , and that so far he had gained little or nothing from the dismissal of Nobody , with all his inconsistencies , anxieties , and contradicitions . 
Before Pet , or before Gowan , Mr. Meagles was radiant ; but , Clennam had more than once found him alone , with his view of the scales and scoop much blurred , and had often seen him look after the lovers , in the garden or elsewhere when he was not seen by them , with the old clouded face on which Gowan had fallen like a shadow . 
The pleasantest part of the occasion , by far , to Clennam , was the painfullest . 
And so , with last sobs and last loving words , and a last look to Clennam of confidence in his promise , Pet fell back in the carriage , and her husband waved his hand , and they were away for Dover . 
A miserable blank remained in the house , and in the hearts of the father and mother and Clennam . 
`` It 's very gratifying , Arthur , '' he said , `` after all , to look back upon . '' 
said Clennam . 
It had made him much more low and unhappy at the time , but now it really did him good . 
`` It 's very gratifying , '' he said , often repeating the remark in the course of the evening . 
It was at this time , that Mr. Pancks , in discharge of his compact with Clennam , revealed to him the whole of his gipsey story , and told him Little Dorrit 's fortune . 
Clennam , who had been almost incessantly shaking hands with him throughout the narrative , was reminded by this to say , in an amazement which even the preparation he had had for the main disclosure scarcely smoothed down , `` My dear Mr. Pancks , this must have cost you a great sum of money . '' 
repeated Clennam . 
shaking his hand again . 
`` I am sorry for it , '' said Clennam ; `` not that it matters now , though . 
said Clennam . 
Arthur felt an awkward consciousness of having , in his exultant condition , been a little premature . 
Arthur for his life could not have said with confidence whether Pancks really thought so or not . 
`` Your own recompense for all this , Mr. Pancks , '' said Clennam , `` ought to be a large one . '' 
This conversation took place in Clennam 's bedroom , while he was yet in bed . 
He now said he would `` go and look up Mr. Rugg , '' from whom his excited state of mind appeared to require another back ; and bundling up his papers , and exchanging one more hearty shake of the hand with Clennam , he went at full speed down-stairs , and steamed off . 
Clennam , of course , resolved to go direct to Mr. Casby 's . 
He dressed and got out so quickly , that he found himself at the corner of the patriarchal street nearly an hour before her time ; but he was not sorry to have the opportunity of calming himself with a leisurely walk . 
When he returned to the street , and had knocked at the bright brass knocker , he was informed that she had come , and was shown up-stairs to Flora 's breakfast-room . 
Little Dorrit was not there herself , but Flora was , and testified the greatest amazement at seeing him . 
`` Good gracious , Arthur -- Doyce and Clennam ! '' 
`` I ought to make an apology , '' said Arthur , `` for so early and abrupt a visit ; but you will excuse it when I tell you the cause . '' 
`` In times for ever fled Arthur , '' returned Mrs. Finching , `` pray excuse me Doyce and Clennam infinitely more correct and though unquestionably distant still 't is distance lends enchantment to the view , at least I do n't mean that and if I did I suppose it would depend considerably on the nature of the view , but I 'm running on again and you put it all out of my head . '' 
She glanced at him tenderly , and resumed : `` In times for ever fled I was going to say it would have sounded strange indeed for Arthur Clennam -- Doyce and Clennam naturally quite different -- to make apologies for coming here at any time , but that is past and what is past can never be recalled except in his own case as poor Mr. F said when he was in spirits Cucumber and therefore never ate it . '' 
She was making the tea when Arthur came in , and now hastily finished that operation . 
Arthur then told her , in the fewest words , that it was their little friend he came to see ; and what he had to announce to their little friend . 
and might I mention it to Mr. F 's aunt Arthur not Doyce and Clennam for this once or if objectionable not on any account . '' 
Arthur nodded his free permission , since Flora shut out all verbal communication . 
Flora nodded in return to thank him , and hurried out of the room . 
Do what he would to compose his face , he could not convey so much of an ordinary expression into it , but that the moment she saw it she dropped her work , and cried `` Mr. Clennam ! 
They stood in a window , and her eyes , full of light , were fixed upon his face . 
He put an arm about her , seeing her likely to sink down . 
She put a hand upon that arm , partly to rest upon it , and partly so to preserve their relative positions as that her intent look at him should be shaken by no change of attitude in either of them . 
He repeated it again , aloud . 
He would have clasped the little figure closer , but he saw that the eyes appealed to him not to be moved . 
She seemed to entreat him for a little time . 
He held her in his arm , and , after a pause , bent down his ear to listen . 
As he kissed her , she turned her head towards his shoulder , and raised her arm towards his neck ; cried out `` Father ! 
Upon which , Flora returned to take care of her , and hovered about her on a sofa , intermingling kind offices and incoherent scraps of conversation in a manner so confounding , that whether she pressed the Marshalsea to take a spoonful of unclaimed dividends , for it would do her good ; or whether she congratulated Little Dorrit 's father on coming into possession of a hundred thousand smelling-bottles ; or whether she explained that she put seventy-five thousand drops of spirits of lavender on fifty thousand pounds of lump sugar , and that she entreated Little Dorrit to take that gentle restorative ; or whether she bathed the foreheads of Doyce and Clennam in vinegar , and gave the late Mr. F more air ; no one with any sense of responsibility could have undertaken to decide . 
all designed to disparage Clennam 's share in the discovery , and to relieve those inveterate feelings with which Mr. F 's Aunt regarded him . 
`` I declare , '' she sobbed , `` I never was so cut up since your mama and my papa not Doyce and Clennam for this once but give the precious little thing a cup of tea and make her put it to her lips at least pray Arthur do , not even Mr. F 's last illness for that was of another kind and gout is not a child 's affection though very painful for all parties and Mr. F a martyr with his leg upon a rest and the wine trade in itself inflammatory for they will do it more or less among themselves and who can wonder , it seems like a dream I am sure to think of nothing at all this morning and now Mines of money is it really , but you must you know my darling love because you never will be strong enough to tell him all about it upon teaspoons , might n't it be even best to try the directions of my own medical man for though the flavor is anything but agreeable still I force myself to do it as a prescription and find the benefit , you 'd rather not why no my dear I 'd rather not but still I do it as a duty , everybody will congratulate you some in earnest and some not and many will congratulate you with all their hearts but none more so I do assure you than from the bottom of my own I do myself though sensible of blundering and being stupid , and will be judged by Arthur not Doyce and Clennam for this once so good-bye darling and God bless you and may you be very happy and excuse the liberty , vowing that the dress shall never be finished by anybody else but shall be laid by for a keepsake just as it is and called Little Dorrit though why that strangest of denominations at any time I never did myself and now I never shall ! '' 
Little Dorrit thanked her , and embraced her , over and over again ; and finally came out of the house with Clennam , and took coach for the Marshalsea . 
When Arthur told her that she would soon ride in her own carriage through very different scenes , when all these familiar experiences would have vanished away , she looked frightened . 
But , when he substituted her father for herself , and told her how he would ride in his carriage , and how great and grand he would be , her tears of joy and innocent pride fell fast . 
Seeing that the happiness her mind could realise was all shining upon him , Arthur kept that single figure before her ; and so they rode brightly through the poor streets in the prison neighbourhood , to carry him the great news . 
His glasses were in his hand , and he had just looked round ; surprised at first , no doubt , by her step upon the stairs , not expecting her until night ; surprised again , by seeing Arthur Clennam in her company . 
As they came in , the same unwonted look in both of them which had already caught attention in the yard below , struck him . 
He did not rise or speak , but laid down his glasses and his newspaper on the table beside him , and looked at them with his mouth a little open , and his lips trembling . 
When Arthur put out his hand , he touched it , but not with his usual state ; and then he turned to his daughter , who had sat down close beside him with her hands upon his shoulder , and looked attentively in her face . 
`` By Mr. Clennam , father . 
He brought me such joyful and wonderful intelligence about you ! 
If he had not , with his great kindness and gentleness , prepared me for it , father -- prepared me for it , father -- I think I could not have borne it . '' 
He put his hand suddenly to his heart , and looked at Clennam . 
`` Compose yourself , sir , '' said Clennam , `` and take a little time to think . 
`` Mr. Clennam ? 
Not at an end for -- '' He touched himself upon the breast , instead of saying `` me . '' 
`` No , '' returned Clennam . 
`` What surprise , '' he asked , keeping his left hand over his heart , and there stopping in his speech , while with his right hand he put his glasses exactly level on the table : `` what such surprise can be in store for me ? '' 
He looked stedfastly at Clennam , and , so looking at him , seemed to change into a very old haggard man . 
`` It is down , '' said Clennam . 
He remained in the same attitude , looking stedfastly at him . 
`` And in its place , '' said Clennam , slowly and distinctly , `` are the means to possess and enjoy the utmost that they have so long shut out . 
With those words , he pressed his hand and released it ; and his daughter , laying her face against his , encircled him in the hour of his prosperity with her arms , as she had in the long years of his adversity encircled him with her love and toil and truth ; and poured out her full heart in gratitude , hope , joy , blissful ecstacy , and all for him . 
He yielded himself to her kisses and caresses , but did not return them , except that he put an arm about her . 
Neither did he say one word . 
His stedfast look was now divided between her and Clennam , and he began to shake as if he were very cold . 
Explaining to Little Dorrit that he would run to the coffee-house for a bottle of wine , Arthur fetched it with all the haste he could use . 
While it was being brought from the cellar to the bar , a number of excited people asked him what had happened ; when he hurriedly informed them , that Mr. Dorrit had succeeded to a fortune . 
After this had lasted a while , Clennam thought it a good season for diverting his attention from the main surprise , by relating its details . 
Slowly , therefore , and in a quiet tone of voice , he explained them as he best could , and enlarged on the nature of Pancks 's service . 
`` Assure yourself , Mr. Clennam , that everybody concerned shall be -- ha -- shall be nobly rewarded . 
No one , my dear sir , shall say that he has an unsatisfied claim against me . 
I particularly wish , and intend , to act munificently , Mr. Clennam . '' 
`` Will you allow me , '' said Arthur , laying his purse on the table , `` to supply any present contingencies , Mr. Dorrit ? 
His hand had closed upon the money , and he carried it about with him . 
A mere verbal statement of the gross amount is all I shall -- ha -- all I shall require , '' His eye fell upon his daughter at this point , and he stopped for a moment to kiss her , and to pat her head . 
This was the first intimation he had ever given , that he was privy to the fact that they did something for a livelihood . 
He was still jogging about the room , with the purse clutched in his hand , when a great cheering arose in the yard . 
`` The news has spread already , '' said Clennam , looking down from the window . 
`` I -- hum -- ha -- I confess I could have desired , Amy my dear , '' he said , jogging about in a more feverish flutter than before , `` to have made some change in my dress first , and to have bought a -- hum -- a watch and chain . 
Mr. Clennam , would you oblige me -- hum -- with a blue neckcloth you will find in that drawer at your elbow . 
With his trembling hand he pushed his grey hair up , and then , taking Clennam and his daughter for supporters , appeared at the window leaning on an arm of each . 
The Collegians cheered him very heartily , and he kissed his hand to them with great urbanity and protection . 
When he withdrew into the room again , he said `` Poor creatures ! '' 
Little Dorrit was deeply anxious that he should lie down to compose himself . 
On Arthur 's speaking to her of his going to inform Pancks that he might now appear as soon as he would , and pursue the joyful business to its close , she entreated him in a whisper to stay with her , until her father should be quite calm and at rest . 
She took her faithful place beside him , fanning him and cooling his forehead ; and he seemed to be falling asleep -LRB- always with the money in his hand -RRB- , when he unexpectedly sat up and said : `` Mr. Clennam , I beg your pardon . 
`` It is but a few hours , sir , '' Clennam cheerfully urged upon him . 
`` A few hours , sir , '' he returned in a sudden passion . 
It was his last demonstration for that time ; as , after shedding some more tears and querulously complaining that he could n't breathe , he slowly fell into a slumber . 
Clennam had abundant occupation for his thoughts , as he sat in the quiet room watching the father on his bed , and the daughter fanning his face . 
After softly putting his grey hair aside , and touching his forehead with her lips , she looked towards Arthur , who came nearer to her , and pursued in a low whisper the subject of her thoughts . 
`` Mr. Clennam , will he pay all his debts before he leaves here ? '' 
`` All the debts for which he has been imprisoned here , all my life and longer ? '' 
He wondered to detect it , and said : `` You are glad that he should do so ? '' 
`` It seems to me hard , '' said Little Dorrit , `` that he should have lost so many years and suffered so much , and at last pay all the debts as well . 
It seems to me hard that he should pay in life and money both . '' 
`` My dear child -- '' Clennam was beginning . 
Engendered as the confusion was , in compassion for the poor prisoner , her father , it was the first speek Clennam had ever seen , it was the last speek clennam ever saw , of the prison atmosphere upon her . 
He thought this , and forbore to say another word . 
With the thought , her purity and goodness came before him in their brightest light . 
Clennam rose softly , opened and closed the door without a sound , and passed from the prison , carrying the quiet with him into the turbulent streets . 
Among other items , Messrs. Peddle and Pool , solicitors , of Monument Yard , were instructed by their client Edward Dorrit , Esquire , to address a letter to Mr. Arthur Clennam , enclosing the sum of twenty-four pounds nine shillings and eightpence , being the amount of principal and interest computed at the rate of five per cent per annum , in which their client believed himself to be indebted to Mr. Clennam . 
In making this communication and remittance , Messrs. Peddle and Pool were further instructed by their client to remind Mr. Clennam , that the favor of the advance now repaid -LRB- including gate-fees -RRB- had not been asked of him , and to inform him that it would not have been accepted if it had been openly proffered in his name . 
With which they requested a stamped receipt , and remained his obedient servants . 
And by that Mr. Clennam too ! '' 
Clennam appeared at the carriage-door , bearing the little insensible figure in his arms . 
The attendant , getting between Clennam and the carriage-door , with a sharp `` By your leave , sir ! '' 
`` I do n't so much mind that , once in a way , '' remarked Mr. Edward ; `` but your Clennam , as he thinks proper to call himself , is another thing . '' 
We then come to -- ha -- to Mr. Clennam . 
I am free to say that I do not , Amy , share your sister 's sentiments -- that is to say altogether -- hum -- altogether -- in reference to Mr. Clennam . 
Nor will I enquire whether Mr. Clennam did , at any time , obtrude himself on -- ha -- my society . 
He knew my society to be -- hum -- sought , and his plea might be that he regarded me in the light of a public character . 
But there were circumstances attending my -- ha -- slight knowledge of Mr. Clennam -LRB- it was very slight -RRB- , which , '' here Mr. Dorrit became extremely grave and impressive , `` would render it highly indelicate in Mr. Clennam to -- ha -- to seek to renew communication with me or with any member of my family , under existing circumstances . 
If Mr. Clennam has sufficient delicacy to perceive the impropriety of any such attempt , I am bound as a responsible gentleman to -- ha -- defer to that delicacy , on his part . 
If , on the other hand , Mr. Clennam has not that delicacy , I can not for a moment -- ha -- hold any correspondence with so -- hum -- coarse a mind . 
In either case , it would appear that Mr. Clennam is put altogether out of the question , and that we have nothing to do with him or he with us . 
Dear Mr. Clennam . 
Dear Mr. Clennam , I dare say you think little of having been a friend to me when I had no other -LRB- not that I have any other now , for I have made no new friends -RRB- , but I think much of it , and I never can forget it . 
For instance , when we were among the mountains , I often felt -LRB- I hesitate to tell such an idle thing , dear Mr. Clennam , even to you -RRB- , as if the Marshalsea must be behind that great rock ; or as if Mrs. Clennam 's room where I have worked so many days , and where I first saw you , must be just beyond that snow . 
Dear Mr. Clennam , I have written a great deal about myself , but I must write a little more still , or what I wanted most of all to say in this weak letter would be left out of it . 
He was about -LRB- connecting the accrediting with an obtrusive person of the name of Clennam , whom he imperfectly remembered in some former state of existence -RRB- to blackball the name of Gowan finally , when Edward Dorrit , Esquire , came into the conversation , with his glass in his eye , and the preliminary remark of `` I say -- you there ! 
While the waters of Venice and the ruins of Rome were sunning themselves for the pleasure of the Dorrit family , and were daily being sketched out of all earthly proportion , lineament , and likeness , by travelling pencils innumerable , the firm of Doyce and Clennam hammered away in Bleeding Heart Yard , and the vigorous clink of iron upon iron was heard there through the working hours . 
The younger partner had , by this time , brought the business into sound trim ; and the elder , left free to follow his own ingenious devices , had done much to enhance the character of the factory . 
Clennam , cheering him with a hearty co-operation , was a moral support to him , besides doing good service in his business relation . 
So Clennam thought , when he sometimes observed him of an evening looking over the models and drawings , and consoling himself by muttering with a sigh as he put them away again , that the thing was as true as it ever was . 
To show no sympathy with so much endeavour , and so much disappointment , would have been to fail in what Clennam regarded as among the implied obligations of his partnership . 
`` A totally uneducated one , I am sorry to add , '' said Clennam . 
`` At all events , '' said Clennam -- `` this sounds as if we were exchanging compliments , but we know we are not -- I shall have the advantage of as plain an explanation as can be given . '' 
Not only that evening , but for several succeeding evenings , Clennam was quite charmed by this investigation . 
The more he pursued it , and the oftener he glanced at the grey head bending over it , and the shrewd eye kindling with pleasure in it and love of it -- instrument for probing his heart though it had been made for twelve long years -- the less he could reconcile it to his younger energy to let it go without one effort more . 
At length he said : `` Doyce , it came to this at last -- that the business was to be sunk with Heaven knows how many more wrecks , or begun all over again ? '' 
said Clennam , bitterly . 
mused Clennam . 
`` Then , my friend , '' cried Clennam , starting up , and taking his work-roughened hand , `` it shall be begun all over again ! '' 
You forget , my good Clennam ; I have put it by . 
`` Yes , Doyce , '' returned Clennam , `` at an end as far as your efforts and rebuffs are concerned , I admit , but not as far as mine are . 
But it was natural that he should gradually allow himself to be over-persuaded by Clennam , and should yield . 
Yield he did . 
So Arthur resumed the long and hopeless labor of striving to make way with the Circumlocution Office . 
The waiting-rooms of that Department soon began to be familiar with his presence , and he was generally ushered into them by its janitors much as a pickpocket might be shown into a police-office ; the principal difference being that the object of the latter class of public business is to keep the pickpocket , while the Circumlocution object was to get rid of Clennam . 
With sufficient occupation on his hands , now that he had this additional task -- such a task had many and many a serviceable man died of before his day -- Arthur Clennam led a life of slight variety . 
Regular visits to his mother 's dull sick room , and visits scarcely less regular to Mr. Meagles at Twickenham , were its only changes during many months . 
One wintry Saturday when Clennam was at the cottage , the Dowager Mrs. Gowan drove up , in the Hampton Court equipage which pretended to be the exclusive equipage of so many individual proprietors . 
Mr. Meagles looked at his wife , and at Clennam ; bit his lip ; and coughed . 
If Mr. Meagles had submitted to a glance of entreaty from Mrs. Meagles , and an expressive gesture from Clennam , he would have left her in the undisturbed enjoyment of this state of mind . 
But Pet was the darling and pride of his heart ; and if he could ever have championed her more devotedly , or loved her better , than in the days when she was the sunlight of his house , it would have been now , when , in its daily grace and delight , she was lost to it . 
Arthur ! 
`` As you have appealed to Mr. Clennam , I may appeal to Mr. Clennam , too . 
He knows whether I did or not . '' 
`` I am very unwilling , '' said Clennam , looked to by all parties , `` to take any share in this discussion , more especially because I wish to preserve the best understanding and the clearest relations with Mr. Henry Gowan . 
Clennam stepped forward to hand her to the Pill-Box , which was at the service of all the Pills in Hampton Court Palace ; and she got into that vehicle with distinguished serenity , and was driven away . 
`` Arthur , my dear boy , '' said Mr. Meagles , on the evening of the following day , `` Mother and I have been talking this over , and we do n't feel comfortable in remaining as we are . 
That elegant connexion of ours -- that dear lady who was here yesterday -- '' `` I understand , '' said Arthur . 
We could bear a great deal , Arthur , for her sake ; but we think we would rather not bear that , if it was all the same to her . '' 
`` Good , '' said Arthur . 
`` Yes indeed , '' returned Arthur , `` there is much reason in what you say . '' 
He had glanced at Mrs. Meagles , who was always on the good and sensible side ; and a petition had shone out of her honest face that he would support Mr. Meagles in his present inclinings . 
`` And I do n't think , '' replied Arthur , touched by the motherly anticipation in the bright face of Mrs. Meagles -LRB- she must have been very like her daughter , once -RRB- , `` that you could do better . 
Mother , with a look which thanked Clennam in a manner very agreeable to him , answered that it was indeed . 
`` The fact is , besides , Arthur , '' said Mr. Meagles , the old cloud coming over his face , `` that my son-in-law is already in debt again , and that I suppose I must clear him again . 
It may be as well , even on this account , that I should step over there , and look him up in a friendly way . 
It 's undeniably a long way off , Arthur , and a strange place for the poor love under all the circumstances . 
`` All perfectly true , '' observed Arthur , `` and all sufficient reasons for going . '' 
We have lost our pleasant interpreter -LRB- she spoke three foreign languages beautifully , Arthur ; you have heard her many a time -RRB- , and you must pull me through it , Mother , as well as you can . 
I require a deal of pulling through , Arthur , '' said Mr. Meagles , shaking his head , `` a deal of pulling through . 
I stick at everything beyond a noun-substantive , -- and I stick at him , if he 's at all a tight one . '' 
`` Now I think of it , '' returned Clennam , `` there 's Cavalletto . 
He shall go with you if you like . 
I could not afford to lose him , but you will bring him safe back . '' 
No , Arthur , I 'll be pulled through by Mother . '' 
They would do best by themselves perhaps , after all , Clennam thought ; therefore did not press his proposal . 
You so belong to the spot , and to them , Arthur , and we should every one of us have been so happy if it had fallen out -- but , let us see -- how 's the weather for travelling , now ? '' 
They agreed that the weather was of high promise ; and Clennam kept the talk in that safe direction until it had become easy again , when he gently diverted it to Henry Gowan , and his quick sense and agreeable qualities when he was delicately dealt with ; he likewise dwelt on the indisputable affection he entertained for his wife . 
Clennam did not fail of his effect upon good Mr. Meagles , whom these commendations greatly cheered ; and who took Mother to witness that the single and cordial desire of his heart in reference to their daughter 's husband , was harmoniously to exchange friendship for friendship , and confidence for confidence . 
Within a few hours the cottage furniture began to be wrapped up for preservation in the family absence -- or , as Mr. Meagles expressed it , the house began to put its hair in papers -- and within a few days Father and Mother were gone , Mrs. Tickit and Dr. Buchan were posted , as of yore , behind the parlor blind , and Arthur 's solitary feet were rustling among the dry fallen leaves in the garden walks . 
As he had a liking for the spot , he seldom let a week pass without paying it a visit . 
Sometimes , he went down alone from Saturday to Monday ; sometimes , his partner accompanied him ; sometimes , he merely strolled for an hour or two about the house and garden , saw that all was right , and returned to London again . 
On one of his visits Mrs. Tickit received him with the words , `` I have something to tell you , Mr. Clennam , that will surprise you . '' 
So surprising was the something in question , that it actually brought Mrs. Tickit out of the parlor window and produced her in the garden walk , when Clennam went in at the gate on its being opened for him . 
said he . 
`` Sir , '' returned that faithful housekeeper , having taken him into the parlor and closed the door ; `` if ever I saw the led away and deluded child in my life , I saw her identically in the dusk of yesterday evening . '' 
`` Mr. Clennam , '' returned Mrs. Tickit , `` I was a little heavy in my eyes , being that I was waiting longer than customary for my cup of tea which was then preparing by Mary Jane . 
Without entering upon an enquiry into this curious abnormal condition , Clennam said , `` Exactly . 
`` Precisely so , '' said Clennam . 
`` And when I do think of one thing and do think of another , '' pursued Mrs. Tickit , `` I hardly need to tell you , Mr. Clennam , that I think of the family . 
Arthur subscribed to this discovery with a nod . 
It a n't our stations in life that changes us , Mr. Clennam ; thoughts is free ! 
He nodded again ; afraid to utter a word , lest it should present any new opening to Mrs. Tickit 's conversational powers . 
said Clennam . 
`` I ran out , '' assented Mrs. Tickit , `` as fast as ever my feet would carry me ; and if you 'll credit it , Mr. Clennam , there was n't in the whole shining Heavens , no not so much as a finger of that young woman . '' 
Passing over the absence from the firmament of this novel constellation , Arthur enquired of Mrs. Tickit if she herself went beyond the gate ? 
He then asked Mrs. Tickit how long a space of time she supposed there might have been between the two sets of ocular quiverings she had experienced ? 
She was so plainly at sea on this part of the case , and had so clearly been startled out of slumber , that Clennam was much disposed to regard the appearance as a dream . 
It was then that Clennam saw his face ; as his eyes lowered on the people behind him in the aggregate , without particularly resting upon Clennam 's face or any other . 
He had scarcely turned his head about again , and it was still bent down , listening to the girl , when the stoppage ceased , and the obstructed stream of people flowed on . 
Still bending his head and listening to the girl , he went on at her side , and Clennam followed them , resolved to play this unexpected play out , and see where they went . 
He had hardly made the determination -LRB- though he was not long about it -RRB- , when he was again as suddenly brought up as he had been by the stoppage . 
Such was the hour when Clennam stopped at the corner , observing the girl and the strange man as they went down the street . 
Whether the girl hung behind because she was not to hear the business , or as already knowing enough about it , Clennam could not determine . 
There happened , by good fortune , to be a lounger really waiting for some one ; and he sometimes looked over the railing at the water , and sometimes came to the dark corner and looked up the street , rendering Arthur less conspicuous . 
Clennam ventured to look at the girl as they moved away . 
Clennam lounged into the road , towards the railing ; and the man passed at a quick swing , with the end of his cloak thrown over his shoulder , singing a scrap of a French song . 
Clennam , no less steadily , kept them in sight . 
Clennam was quite at home here , in right of Flora , not to mention the Patriarch and Pancks , and kept them in view with ease . 
After looking at the surrounding objects for assurance that he was not in an odd dream , and after pacing a little while before the house , Arthur knocked at the door . 
It was opened by the usual maid-servant , and she showed him up at once , with her usual alacrity , to Flora 's sitting-room . 
It would seem from the foregoing exclamation that this uncompromising relative of the lamented Mr. F , measuring time by the acuteness of her sensations and not by the clock , supposed Clennam to have lately gone away ; whereas at least a quarter of a year had elapsed since he had had the temerity to present himself before her . 
`` My goodness Arthur ! '' 
cried Flora , rising to give him a cordial reception , `` Doyce and Clennam what a start and a surprise for though not far from the machinery and foundry business and surely might be taken sometimes if at no other time about mid-day when a glass of sherry and a humble sandwich of whatever cold meat in the larder might not come amiss not taste the worse for being friendly for you know you buy it somewhere and wherever bought a profit must be made or they would never keep the place it stands to reason without a motive still never seen and learnt now not to be expected , for as Mr. F himself said if seeing is believing not seeing is believing too and when you do n't see you may fully believe you 're not remembered not that I expect you Arthur Doyce and Clennam to remember me why should I for the days are gone but bring another teacup here directly and tell her fresh toast and pray sit near the fire . '' 
Arthur was in the greatest anxiety to explain the object of his visit ; but was put off for the moment , in spite of himself , by what he understood of the reproachful purport of these words , and by the genuine pleasure she testified in seeing him . 
`` And now pray tell me something all you know , '' said Flora , drawing her chair near to his , `` about the good dear quiet little thing and all the changes of her fortunes carriage people now no doubt and horses without number most romantic , a coat of arms of course and wild beasts on their hind legs showing it as if it was a copy they had done with mouths from car to car good gracious , and has she her health which is the first consideration after all for what is wealth without it Mr.F himself so often saying when his twinges came that sixpence a-day and find yourself and no gout so much preferable , not that he could have lived on anything like it being the last man or that the precious little thing though far too familiar an expression now had any tendency of that sort much too slight and small but looked so fragile bless her ! '' 
While pursuing this routine , she looked at Clennam with an expression of such intense severity that he felt obliged to look at her in return , against his personal inclinations . 
Arthur tried to edge a word in , but Flora hurried on again . 
`` Venice Preserved too , '' said she , `` I think you have been there is it well or ill preserved for people differ so and Maccaroni if they really eat it like the conjurors why not cut it shorter , you are acquainted Arthur -- dear Doyce and Clennam at least not dear and most assuredly not Doyce for I have not the pleasure but pray excuse me -- acquainted I believe with Mantua what has it got to do with Mantua-making for I never have been able to conceive ? '' 
`` I believe there is no connexion , Flora , between the two '' -- Arthur was beginning , when she caught him up again . 
`` Upon your word no is n't there I never did but that 's like me I run away with an idea and having none to spare I keep it , alas there was a time dear Arthur that is to say decidedly not dear nor Arthur neither but you understand me when one bright idea gilded the what 's - his-name horizon of et cetera but it is darkly clouded now and all is over . '' 
Arthur 's increasing wish to speak of something very different was by this time so plainly written on his face , that Flora stopped in a tender look , and asked him what it was ? 
`` Papa sees so many and such odd people , '' said Flora rising , `` that I should n't venture to go down for any one but you Arthur but for you I would willingly go down in a diving-bell much more a dining-room and will come back directly if you 'll mind and at the same time not mind Mr. F 's Aunt while I 'm gone . '' 
With those words and a parting glance , Flora bustled out , leaving Clennam under dreadful apprehensions of his terrible charge . 
Finding it impossible to avoid construing this demonstration into a defiance of himself , its gloomy significance being unmistakeable , Clennam looked plaintively at the excellent though prejudiced lady from whom it emanated , in the hope that she might be disarmed by a meek submission . 
Clennam accepted the boon with a look of gratitude , and held it in his hand under the pressure of a little embarrassment , which was not relieved when Mr. F 's Aunt , elevating her voice into a cry of considerable power , exclaimed `` He has a proud stomach , this chap ! 
`` Such an inconvenient staircase and so many corner-stairs Arthur , '' whispered Flora , `` would you object to putting your arm round me under my pelerine ? '' 
With a sense of going downstairs in a highly ridiculous manner , Clennam descended in the required attitude , and only released his fair burden at the dining-room door ; indeed , even there she was rather difficult to get rid of , remaining in his embrace to murmur , `` Arthur for mercy 's sake do n't breathe it to papa ! '' 
She accompanied Arthur into the room , where the Patriarch sat alone , with his list shoes on the fender , twirling his thumbs as if he had never left off . 
`` Mr. Clennam , I am glad to see you . 
`` I had hoped , sir , '' said Clennam , doing so , and looking round with a face of blank disappointment , `` not to find you alone . '' 
`` Pray , sir , '' demanded Clennam anxiously , `` is Miss Wade gone ? '' 
Arthur quickly returned , `` What do you call her ? '' 
After looking at the philanthropic visage , and the long silky white hair for a few seconds , during which Mr. Casby twirled his thumbs , and smiled at the fire as if he were benevolently wishing it to burn him that he might forgive it , Arthur began : `` I beg your pardon , Mr. Casby -- '' `` Not so , not so , '' said the Patriarch , `` not so . '' 
I observed the young woman , Mr. Clennam . 
A fine full-colored young woman , Mr. Clennam , with very dark hair and very dark eyes . 
Arthur assented , and said once more with new expression , `` If you will be so good as to give me the address . '' 
Miss Wade mostly lives abroad , Mr. Clennam . 
She has done so for some years , and she is -LRB- if I may say so of a fellow creature and a lady -RRB- fitful and uncertain to a fault , Mr. Clennam . 
Clennam saw , now , that he had as much hope of getting assistance out of the Portrait as out of the Patriarch ; but he said nevertheless : `` Mr. Casby , could you , for the satisfaction of the friends I have mentioned , and under any obligation of secresy that you may consider it your duty to impose , give me any information at all touching Miss Wade ? 
`` Truly none at all , '' said Clennam . 
`` Truly , '' assented the Patriarch , with a shining face as he philanthropically smiled at the fire , `` none at all , sir . 
You hit the wise answer , Mr. Clennam . 
His turning of his smooth thumbs over one another as he sat there , was so typical to Clennam of the way in which he would make the subject revolve if it were pursued , never showing any new part of it nor allowing it to make the smallest advance , that it did much to help to convince him of his labor having been in vain . 
He might have taken any time to think about it , for Mr. Casby , well accustomed to get on anywhere by leaving everything to his bumps and his white hair , knew his strength to lie in silence . 
With this spectacle before him , Arthur had risen to go , when from the inner Dock where the good ship Pancks was hove down when out in no cruising ground , the noise was heard of that steamer laboring towards them . 
It struck Arthur that the noise began demonstratively far off , as though Mr. Pancks sought to impress on any one who might happen to think about it , that he was working on from out of hearing . 
Mr. Pancks in shaking hands merely scratched his eyebrow with his left forefinger and snorted once , but Clennam , who understood him better now than of old , comprehended that he had almost done for the evening and wished to say a word to him outside . 
Therefore , when he had taken his leave of Mr. Casby , and -LRB- which was a more difficult process -RRB- of Flora , he sauntered in the neighbourhood on Mr. Pancks 's line of road . 
Mr. Pancks shaking hands again with another expressive snort , and taking off his hat to put his hair up , Arthur thought he received his cue to speak to him as one who knew pretty well what had just now passed . 
`` Does he know where to find that lady ? '' 
`` I think , '' observed Clennam musing , `` I by chance know what occasion -- I mean into whose pocket the money is to go . '' 
Arthur , hurriedly reviewing his own observation of her , found it to tally pretty nearly with Mr. Pancks 's view . 
Arthur started and said , `` Dear me , Pancks , do n't say that ! '' 
`` Understand me , '' said Pancks , extending five cropped coaly finger-nails on Arthur 's arm ; `` I do n't mean , cut his throat . 
The shady waiting-rooms of the Circumlocution Office , where he passed a good deal of time in company with various troublesome Convicts who were under sentence to be broken alive on that wheel , had afforded Arthur Clennam ample leisure , in three or four successive days , to exhaust the subject of his late glimpse of Miss Wade and Tattycoram . 
He had been able to make no more of it and no less of it , and in this unsatisfactory condition he was fain to leave it . 
During this space he had not been to his mother 's dismal old house . 
One of his customary evenings for repairing thither now coming round , he left his dwelling and his partner at nearly nine o'clock , and slowly walked in the direction of that grim home of his youth . 
It always affected his imagination as wrathful , mysterious , and sad ; and his imagination was sufficiently impressible to see the whole neighbourhood under some tinge of its dark shadow . 
As he went along , upon a dreary night , the dim streets by which he went seemed all depositories of oppressive secrets . 
The deserted counting-houses , with their secrets of books and papers locked up in chests and safes ; the banking-houses , with their secrets of strong rooms and wells , the keys of which were in a very few secret pockets and a very few secret breasts ; the secrets of all the dispersed grinders in the vast mill , among whom there were doubtless plunderers , forgers , and trust-betrayers of many sorts , whom the light of any day that dawned might reveal ; he could have fancied that these things , in hiding , imparted a heaviness to the air . 
The shadow thickening and thickening as he approached its source , he thought of the secrets of the lonely church-vaults , where the people who had hoarded and secreted in iron coffers were in their turn similarly hoarded , not yet at rest from doing harm ; and then of the secrets of the river , as it rolled its turbid tide between two frowning wildernesses of secrets , extending , thick and dense , for many miles , and warding off the free air and the free country swept by winds and wings of birds . 
The shadow still darkening as he drew near the house , the melancholy room which his father had once occupied , haunted by the appealing face he had himself seen fade away with him when there was no other watcher by the bed , arose before his mind . 
The street was a sharp descent and was crooked too , and the man -LRB- who although not drunk had the air of being flushed with some strong drink -RRB- went down it so fast that Clennam lost him as he looked at him . 
With no defined intention of following him , but with an impulse to keep the figure in view a little longer , Clennam quickened his pace to pass the twist in the street which hid him from his sight . 
On turning it , he saw the man no more . 
Standing now , close to the gateway of his mother 's house , he looked down the street : but it was empty . 
Clennam 's surprise was not so absorbing but that he took his resolution without any incertitude . 
He went up to the door too , and ascended the steps too . 
His friend looked at him with a braggart air , and sang to himself : `` Who passes by this road so late ? 
After which he knocked again . 
`` You are impatient , sir , '' said Arthur . 
`` Why , Arthur ! '' 
she added with astonishment , seeing him first . 
To Arthur 's increased surprise , Mistress Affery , stretching her eyes wide at himself , as if in warning that this was not a gentleman for him to interfere with , drew back the chain , and opened the door . 
The stranger , without any ceremony , walked into the hall , leaving Arthur to follow him . 
`` Pray tell me , Affery , '' said Arthur , aloud and sternly , as he surveyed him from head to foot with indignation ; `` who is this gentleman ? '' 
Arthur , come straight to me ! '' 
`` Arthur ? '' 
Arthur looked at him again in no more flattering manner than before , and , turning on his heel without acknowledgment , went up stairs . 
Arthur did not fail to observe this ; though the difference between the present occasion and the former was not within his power of observation . 
`` Sir , '' said Arthur , striking in expeditiously , `` whoever you are , and however you come to be here , if I were the master of this house I would lose no time in placing you on the outside of it . '' 
`` But you are not , '' said his mother , without looking at him . 
`` Unfortunately for the gratification of your unreasonable temper , you are not the master , Arthur . '' 
If I object to this person 's manner of conducting himself here , and object to it so much , that if I had any authority here I certainly would not suffer him to remain a minute , I object on your account . '' 
The subject of their dispute , who had seated himself , laughed loud , and rapped his leg with his hand . 
`` I hope so , '' returned Arthur . 
`` Therefore , Arthur , '' said his mother , `` the gentleman comes here as an acquaintance , and no stranger ; and it is much to be regretted that your unreasonable temper should have found offence in him . 
The amazement , suspicion , resentment , and shame , with which Arthur looked on at all this , struck him dumb . 
Mr. Flintwinch , who had spun backward some two or three yards under the impetus last given to him , brought himself up with a face completely unchanged in its stolidity except as it was affected by shortness of breath , and looked hard at Arthur . 
As Mrs. Clennam never removed her eyes from Rigaud -LRB- on whom they had some effect , as a steady look has on a lower sort of dog -RRB- , so Jeremiah never removed his from Arthur . 
Thus , in the ensuing silence , Jeremiah stood scraping his chin and looking at Arthur , as though he were trying to screw his thoughts out of him with an instrument . 
Thereupon Mrs. Clennam said , moving one of her hands for the first time , and moving it very slightly with an action of dismissal : `` Please to leave us to our business , Arthur . '' 
`` I leave your -- your business acquaintance in my mother 's room , Mr. Flintwinch , '' said Clennam , `` with a great deal of surprise and a great deal of unwillingness . '' 
The person referred to snapped his finger and thumb again . 
`` I had a friend once , my good comrade Flintwinch , '' said Rigaud , standing astride before the fire , and so evidently saying it to arrest Clennam 's retreating steps , that he lingered near the door ; `` I had a friend once , who had heard so much of the dark side of this city and its ways , that he would n't have confided himself alone by night with two people who had an interest in getting him under the ground -- my faith ! 
Disdaining to speak , and indeed not very well able , for he was half-choking , Clennam only glanced at the visitor as he passed out . 
`` For Heaven 's sake , Affery , '' whispered Clennam , as she opened the door for him in the dark hall , and he groped his way to the sight of the night-sky , `` what is going on here ? '' 
Her own appearance was sufficiently ghastly , standing in the dark with her apron thrown over her head , and speaking behind it in a low , deadened voice . 
`` Do n't ask me anything , Arthur . 
He went out , and she shut the door upon him . 
He looked up at the windows of his mother 's room , and the dim light , deadened by the yellow blinds , seemed to say a response after Affery , and to mutter , `` Do n't ask me anything . 
Dear Mr. Clennam . 
He was telling her a long story -LRB- of robbers outside the walls , being taken up by a stone statue of a Saint -RRB- , to entertain her -- as he said to me when I came out , `` because he had a daughter of his own , though she was not so pretty . '' 
Dear Mr. Clennam , it is possible that I have thought of you -- and others -- so much by day , that I have no thoughts left to wander round you by night . 
God bless you , dear Mr. Clennam . 
P.S. Particularly remember that Minnie Gowan deserves the best remembrance in which you can hold her . 
You can not think too generously or too highly of her . 
The object of this last manoeuvre was only apparent , when his entering the shop with a sudden twist , from the steps again , explained that he had made a wide and obscure circuit round to the other , or Doyce and Clennam , end of the Yard , and had come through the Yard and bolted in . 
He was out of breath by that time , as he might well be ; and his heart seemed to jerk faster than the little shop-bell , as it quivered and jingled behind him with his hasty shutting of the door . 
Tea was over , and the children were abed , and Mrs. Plornish was feeling her way to the dutiful proposal that her father should favor them with Chole , when the bell again rang , and Mr. Clennam came in . 
Clennam had been poring late over his books and letters ; for , the waiting-rooms of the Circumlocution Office ravaged his time sorely . 
Over and above that , he was depressed and made uneasy by the late occurrence at his mother 's . 
He looked worn and solitary . 
He felt so , too ; but , nevertheless , was returning home from his counting-house by that end of the Yard , to give them the intelligence that he had received another letter from Miss Dorrit . 
She was particularly delighted when Clennam assured her that there were hospitals , and very kindly conducted hospitals , in Rome . 
Everybody was pleased and interested , and Clennam was well repaid for his trouble . 
Arthur , with less formality , expressed himself gratified by their high appreciation of so very slight an attention on his part ; and explained as to the tea that he had not yet dined , and was going straight home to refresh after a long day 's labor , or he would have readily accepted the hospitable offer . 
`` If you will come home with me , Pancks , '' said Arthur , when they got into the street , `` and will share what dinner or supper there is , it will be next door to an act of charity ; for , I am weary and out of sorts to-night . '' 
Between this eccentric personage and Clennam , a tacit understanding and accord had been always improving since Mr. Pancks flew over Mr. Rugg 's back in the Marshalsea Yard . 
The second letter , at that moment in Clennam 's breast-pocket , particularly remembered him by name . 
Though he had never before made any profession or protestation to Clennam , and though what he had just said was little enough as to the words in which it was expressed , Clennam had long had a growing belief that Mr. Pancks , in his own odd way , was becoming attached to him . 
`` I am quite alone , '' Arthur explained as they walked on . 
Arthur was quite unprepared for them , and quite unable to suggest an explanation of them . 
returned Clennam . 
`` I ought first to see for myself that he has something on his mind , I think , '' said Clennam . 
You ought n't to be anybody 's proprietor , Mr. Clennam . 
`` For the matter of that , '' returned Clennam laughing , `` I have not a large proprietary share in Cavalletto . 
His carving is his livelihood . 
He keeps the keys of the Factory , watches it every alternate night , and acts as a sort of housekeeper to it generally ; but , we have little work in the way of his ingenuity , though we give him what we have . 
I am rather his adviser than his proprietor . 
To call me his standing counsel and his banker would be nearer the fact . 
Speaking of being his banker , is it not curious , Pancks , that the ventures which run just now in so many people 's heads , should run even in little Cavalletto 's ? '' 
His quick way of replying caused Clennam to look at him , with a doubt whether he meant more than he said . 
As it was accompanied , however , with a quickening of his pace and a corresponding increase in the laboring of his machinery , Arthur did not pursue the matter , and they soon arrived at his house . 
So that when Clennam produced his Eastern pipe , and handed Mr. Pancks another Eastern pipe , the latter gentleman was perfectly comfortable . 
Clennam , with his former look , said `` Ah ! '' 
I see you are going back to it , '' returned Clennam , wondering why . 
`` Very strange how these runs on an infatuation prevail , '' said Arthur . 
`` Not a bit , '' assented Clennam . 
`` If they had -- '' Clennam was going on to say ; when Mr. Pancks , without change of countenance , produced a sound so far surpassing all his usual efforts , nasal or bronchial , that he stopped . 
`` I thought you -- spoke , '' said Arthur , hesitating what name to give the interruption . 
`` If they had , '' observed Clennam , who was a little at a loss how to take his friend , `` why , I suppose they would have known better . '' 
`` How so , Mr. Clennam ? '' 
Relieved by having got to this , Mr. Pancks took as long a pull as his lungs would permit at his Eastern pipe , and looked sagaciously and steadily at Clennam while inhaling and exhaling too . 
`` Do you mean , my good Pancks , '' asked Clennam , emphatically , `` that you would put that thousand pounds of yours , let us say , for instance , out at this kind of interest ? '' 
Mr. Pancks took another long inhalation , another long exhalation , another long sagacious look at Clennam . 
`` I tell you , Mr. Clennam , I 've gone into it , '' said Pancks . 
`` He 's a man of immense resources -- enormous capital -- government influence . 
returned Clennam , looking first at him gravely , and then at the fire gravely . 
Mr. Pancks might , or might not , have caught the illness himself from a subject of this class ; but , in this category he appeared before Clennam , and the infection he threw off was all the more virulent . 
`` And you have really invested , '' Clennam had already passed to that word , `` your thousand pounds , Pancks ? '' 
Now , Clennam had two subjects lying heavy on his lonely mind that night ; the one , his partner 's long-deferred hope ; the other , what he had seen and heard at his mother 's . 
In the relief of having this companion , and of feeling that he could trust him , he passed on to both , and both brought him round again , with an increase and acceleration of force , to his point of departure . 
Quitting the investment subject , after an interval of silent looking at the fire through the smoke of his pipe , he told Pancks how and why he was occupied with the great national Department . 
`` But you manage for him , Mr. Clennam ? '' 
`` Recompense him for his toils and disappointments . 
Give him the chances of the time . 
He 'll never benefit himself in that way , patient and pre-occupied workman . 
He looks to you , sir . '' 
`` I do my best , Pancks , '' returned Clennam , uneasily . 
Hear him , hear him ! '' 
The positive refusal expressed in Mr. Pancks 's continued snorts , no less than in these exclamations , to entertain the sentiment for a single instant , drove Arthur away from it . 
Indeed , he was fearful of something happening to Mr. Pancks , in the violent conflict that took place between the breath he jerked out of himself and the smoke he jerked into himself . 
Arthur shook the hand warmly . 
He then , softening the nature of his old apprehensions as much as was possible consistently with their being made intelligible , and never alluding to his mother by name , but speaking vaguely of a relation of his , confided to Mr. Pancks a broad outline of the misgivings he entertained , and of the interview he had witnessed . 
`` Brings me back , sir , '' was his exclamation then , with a startling touch on Clennam 's knee , `` brings me back , sir , to the Investments ! 
Arthur shook his head , but looked at him thoughtfully too . 
`` Be as rich as you can , sir , '' Pancks adjured him with a powerful concentration of all his energies on the advice . 
returned Arthur . 
`` One word more , Mr. Clennam , '' retorted Pancks , `` and then enough for to-night . 
said Arthur . 
On taking his leave , Mr. Pancks , when he had shaken hands with Clennam , worked completely round him before he steamed out at the door . 
This , Arthur received as an assurance that he might implicitly rely on Pancks , if he should ever come to need assistance ; either in any of the matters of which they had spoken that night , or on any other subject that could in any way affect himself . 
`` The dear little thing , '' said Flora , `` having gone off perfectly limp and white and cold in my own house or at least papa 's for though not a freehold still a long lease at a peppercorn on the morning when Arthur -- foolish habit of our youthful days and Mr. Clennam far more adapted to existing circumstances particularly addressing a stranger and that stranger a gentleman in an elevated station -- communicated the glad tidings imparted by a person of the name of Pancks emboldens me . '' 
`` Mr. Dorrit , '' said Flora , `` you are very kind in giving me permission and highly natural it seems to me that you should be kind for though more stately I perceive a likeness filled out of course but a likeness still , the object of my intruding is my own without the slightest consultation with any human being and most decidedly not with Arthur -- pray excuse me Doyce and Clennam I do n't know what I am saying Mr. Clennam solus -- for to put that individual linked by a golden chain to a purple time when all was ethereal out of any anxiety would be worth to me the ransom of a monarch not that I have the least idea how much that would come to but using it as the total of all I have in the world and more . '' 
`` To the foreigner from Italy who disappeared in the City as no doubt you have read in the papers equally with myself , '' said Flora , `` not referring to private sources by the name of Pancks from which one gathers what dreadfully ill-natured things some people are wicked enough to whisper most likely judging others by themselves and what the uneasiness and indignation of Arthur -- quite unable to overcome it Doyce and Clennam -- can not fail to be . '' 
`` Pray , madam , '' said Mr. Dorrit , referring to the handbill again , `` who is Clennam and Co. ? 
I see the name mentioned here , in connexion with the occupation of the house which Monsieur Blandois was seen to enter : who is Clennam and Co. ? 
`` Clennam and Co. a -- hum -- a mother ! '' 
He therefore resolved that he would take advantage of that evening 's freedom to go down to Clennam and Co. 's , easily to be found by the direction set forth in the handbill ; and see the place , and ask a question or two there , himself . 
Mr. Dorrit 's satisfaction in remembering that it had not been necessary for him to announce himself to Clennam and Co. or to make an allusion to his having ever had any knowledge of the intrusive person of that name , had been damped over-night , while it was still fresh , by a debate that arose within him whether or no he should take the Marshalsea in his way back , and look at the old gate . 
Clennam , harassed by more anxieties than one , was among this devoted band . 
Even this hospitable person , however , was left behind at last , and Clennam pursued his way , unmolested . 
He met new groups of his countrymen , who had all a straggling air of having at one time over-blown themselves , like certain uncomfortable kinds of flowers , and of being , now , mere weeds . 
They had all an air , too , of lounging out a limited round , day after day , which strongly reminded him of the Marshalsea . 
But , taking no further note of them than was sufficient to give birth to the reflection , he sought out a certain street and number , which he kept in his mind . 
`` So Pancks said , '' he murmured to himself , as he stopped before a dull house answering to the address . 
However , the door jarred open on a dead sort of spring ; and he closed it behind him as he entered a dull yard , soon brought to a close at the back by another dead wall , where an attempt had been made to train some creeping shrubs , which were dead ; and to make a little fountain in a grotto , which was dry ; and to decorate that with a little statue , which was gone . 
Clennam , replying in French , said the English lady ; he wished to see the English lady . 
`` Monsieur Rigaud , '' said Clennam . 
Thereupon the woman withdrew , and left him to look at the room . 
She manifested great surprise on seeing Clennam , and her glance went round the room in search of some one else . 
`` Pray , '' she returned , motioning him to a chair so coldly , that he remained standing , `` what name was it that you gave ? '' 
`` It is strange , '' she said , frowning , `` that you should still press an undesired interest in me and my acquaintances , in me and my affairs , Mr. Clennam . 
`` If you will allow me , '' said Clennam , `` I will tell you my reason for pressing the subject . 
`` Well , sir , '' she returned , repeating , a little less haughtily than before , her former invitation to him to be seated : to which he now deferred , as she seated herself . 
`` First , to identify the person of whom we speak , '' said Clennam , `` let me observe that it is the person you met in London some time back . 
`` You mix yourself most unaccountably with my business , '' she replied , looking full at him with stern displeasure . 
It occurred to me , '' and the handsome face looked bitterly at him , `` that your manner was softened , Mr. Clennam . '' 
He was content to protest against this by a slight action without contesting it in words . 
He then referred to Rigaud ' disappearance , of which it was probable she had heard ? 
However probable it was to him , she had heard of no such thing . 
Let him look round him -LRB- she said -RRB- , and judge for himself what general intelligence was likely to reach the ears of a woman who had been shut up there while it was rife , devouring her own heart . 
When she had uttered this denial , which he believed to be true , she asked him what he meant by disappearance ? 
That led to his narrating the circumstances in detail , and expressing something of his anxiety to discover what had really become of the man , and to repel the dark suspicions that clouded about his mother 's house . 
She heard him with evident surprise , and with more marks of suppressed interest than he had before seen in her ; still they did not overcome her distant , proud , and self-secluded manner . 
When he had finished , she said nothing but these words : `` You have not yet told me , sir , what I have to do with it , or what the favor is . 
`` I assume , '' said Arthur , persevering in his endeavour to soften her scornful demeanour , `` that being in communication -- may I say , confidential communication ? 
-- with this person -- '' `` You may say , of course , whatever you like , '' she remarked ; `` but I do not subscribe to your assumptions , Mr. Clennam , or to any one 's . '' 
`` -- that being , at least , in personal communication with him , '' said Clennam , changing the form of his position , in the hope of making it unobjectionable , `` you can tell me something of his antecedents , pursuits , habits , usual place of residence . 
Can give me some little clue by which to seek him out in the likeliest manner , and either produce him , or establish what has become of him . 
`` You chanced to see me in the street with the man , '' she observed , after being , to his mortification , evidently more occupied with her own reflections on the matter than with his appeal . 
He handed her one of the printed bills , which she read with a steady and attentive face . 
Clennam 's looks expressed his heavy disappointment , perhaps his incredulity ; for , she added in the same unsympathetic tone : `` You do n't believe it . 
A sufficiently expressive hint of suspicion was conveyed in these words , and in the smile by which they were accompanied , to bring the blood into Clennam 's cheeks . 
She took her revenge for her old grudge in thus turning his subject against him . 
Her 's was not the nature to spare him , and she had no compunction . 
`` My mother , let me remind you , '' said Clennam , `` was first brought into communication with him in the unlucky course of business . '' 
`` You imply , '' said Arthur , smarting under these cool-handed thrusts , of which he had deeply felt the force already , `` that there was something -- '' `` Mr. Clennam , '' she composedly interrupted , `` recollect that I do not speak by implication about the man . 
Wrung by her persistence in keeping that dark side of the case before him , of which there was a half-hidden shadow in his own breast , Clennam was silent . 
With a heavy sigh and a despondent air , Arthur Clennam slowly rose . 
She did not rise also , but said , having looked at him in the meanwhile with a fixed look of suspicion , and lips angrily compressed : `` He was the chosen associate of your dear friend , Mr. Gowan , was he not ? 
The denial that he was a dear friend rose to Arthur 's lips ; but , he repressed it , remembering his old struggles and resolutions , and said : `` Further than that he has never seen Rigaud since Rigaud set out for England , Mr. Gowan knows nothing additional about him . 
The anger with which she said it , the more remarkable for being so much under her restraint , fixed Clennam 's attention , and kept him on the spot . 
It flashed out of her dark eyes as they regarded him , quivered in her nostrils , and fired the very breath she exhaled ; but her face was otherwise composed into a disdainful serenity , and her attitude was as calmly and haughtily graceful as if she had been in a mood of complete indifference . 
`` All I will say is , Miss Wade , '' he remarked , `` that you can have received no provocation to a feeling in which I believe you have no sharer . '' 
`` I am scarcely on those intimate terms with my dear friend , '' said Arthur , in spite of his resolutions , `` that would render my approaching the subject very probable , Miss Wade . '' 
Arthur begged her to give it to him . 
Without any conciliation of him , scarcely addressing him , rather speaking as if she were speaking to her own looking-glass for the justification of her own stubbornness , she said , as she gave them to him : `` Now you may know what I mean by hating ! 
`` Here is Mr. Clennam , '' said Miss Wade ; `` not come for you ; he has given you up . 
`` Having no authority or influence -- yes , '' assented Clennam . 
He wants that Rigaud man . '' 
`` With whom I saw you in the Strand in London , '' hinted Arthur . 
`` If you know anything of him , Harriet , except that he came from Venice -- which we all know -- tell it to Mr. Clennam freely . '' 
`` I know nothing more about him , '' said the girl . 
Miss Wade enquired of Arthur . 
He had no reason to disbelieve them ; the girl 's manner being so natural as to be almost convincing , if he had had any previous doubts . 
He replied , `` I must seek for intelligence elsewhere . '' 
He was not going in the same breath ; but , he had risen before the girl entered , and she evidently thought he was . 
She looked quickly at him , and said : `` Are they well , sir ? '' 
As each of the two handsome faces looked at the other , Clennam felt how each of the two natures must be constantly tearing the other to pieces . 
Hereupon Clennam said that he was sure they would still receive her kindly , if she should ever desire to return . 
Arthur Clennam looked at them , standing a little distance asunder in the dull confined room , each proudly cherishing her own anger ; each , with a fixed determination , torturing her own breast , and torturing the other 's . 
He said a word or two of leave-taking ; but , Miss Wade barely inclined her head , and Harriet , with the assumed humiliation of an abject dependant and serf -LRB- but not without defiance for all that -RRB- , made as if she were too low to notice or to be noticed . 
He came down the dark winding stairs into the yard , with an increased sense upon him of the gloom of the wall that was dead , and of the shrubs that were dead , and of the fountain that was dry , and of the statue that was gone . 
Pondering much on what he had seen and heard in that house , as well as on the failure of all his efforts to trace the suspicious character who was lost , he returned to London and to England by the packet that had taken him over . 
On the way , he unfolded the sheets of paper , and read in them what is reproduced in the next chapter . 
Arthur Clennam had made his unavailing expedition to Calais , in the midst of a great pressure of business . 
The preparations for his departure , and the conscientious arrangement for him of all the details and results of their joint business , had necessitated labor within a short compass of time , which had occupied Clennam day and night . 
Him Arthur now showed , with pains and care , the state of their gains and losses , responsibilities and prospects . 
`` It 's all beautiful , Clennam , in its regularity and order . 
`` Though , as I often tell you , '' returned Clennam , `` you unreasonably depreciate your business qualities . '' 
`` But you should n't call it a prejudice , '' said Clennam . 
`` I am glad you think so , '' returned Doyce , with his grey eye , looking kind and bright . 
`` It so happens , '' said Clennam , `` that just now , not half an hour before you came down , I was saying the same thing to Pancks , who looked in here . 
`` He is a very cautious fellow indeed , '' returned Arthur . 
-- Except , '' Clennam was quick with his exception , for his partner 's face was quick in suggesting it , `` except that I will abandon your invention . '' 
`` At least , I 'll try , '' said Clennam . 
`` Private anxieties may have done that for the moment , '' said Clennam , `` but not official harrying . 
`` Decidedly , No , '' said Clennam . 
As there was no moving him , Daniel Doyce returned the grasp of his hand , and , casting a farewell look round the counting-house , went down-stairs with him . 
Mr. Baptist had been in a manner whirled away before the onset , and was taking his breath in quite a scared condition when Clennam beckoned him to follow up-stairs , and return the books and papers to their places . 
In the lull consequent on the departure -- in that first vacuity which ensues on every separation , foreshadowing the great separation that is always overhanging all mankind -- Arthur stood at his desk , looking dreamily out at a gleam of sun . 
But , his liberated attention soon reverted to the theme that was foremost in his thoughts , and began , for the hundredth time , to dwell upon every circumstance that had impressed itself upon his mind , on the mysterious night when he had seen the man at his mother 's . 
`` The last time I heard it , '' returned Arthur , `` was in a voice quite the reverse of pretty , and quite the reverse of innocent . '' 
He said it more to himself than to his companion , and added to himself , repeating the man 's next words . 
`` In the name of Fate and wonder , '' said Clennam , `` what do you mean ? 
cried Clennam , spreading out the hand-bill on his desk . 
Mr. Baptist approached , followed every word with his quick eyes , saw and heard it all out with the greatest impatience , then clapped his two hands flat upon the bill as if he had fiercely caught some noxious creature , and cried , looking eagerly at Clennam , `` It is the man ! 
`` This is of far greater moment to me , '' said Clennam , in great agitation , `` than you can imagine . 
Clennam fell back as if the word had struck him a blow : so terrible did it make his mother 's communication with the man appear . 
When he had related this , with an emphasis and poise on the word , assassin , peculiarly belonging to his own language , and which did not serve to render it less terrible to Clennam , he suddenly sprang to his feet , pounced upon the bill again , and with a vehemence that would have been absolute madness in any man of Northern origin , cried `` Behold the same assassin ! 
On his remembering it , it suggested hope to Clennam that the recognition might be of later date than the night of the visit at his mother 's ; but , Cavalletto was too exact and clear about time and place , to leave any opening for doubt that it had preceded that occasion . 
`` Listen , '' said Arthur , very seriously . 
said Cavalletto , raising his eyes piously . 
`` Not so , '' returned Clennam ; `` for , until something more is heard of him , I can never know an hour 's peace . '' 
`` Now , Cavalletto , '' said Clennam , gently turning him by the arm , so that they looked into each other 's eyes . 
`` I know not where to look , '' cried the little man , kissing Arthur 's hand in a transport . 
Left alone , with the expressive looks and gestures of Mr. Baptist , otherwise Giovanni Baptista Cavalletto , vividly before him , Clennam entered on a weary day . 
It was in vain that he tried to control his attention , by directing it to any business occupation or train of thought ; it rode at anchor by the haunting topic , and would hold to no other idea . 
As though a criminal should be chained in a stationary boat on a deep clear river , condemned , whatever countless leagues of water flowed past him , always to see the body of the fellow creature he had drowned lying at the bottom , . 
immovable , and unchangeable , except as the eddies made it broad or long , now expanding , now contracting its terrible lineaments ; so Arthur , below the shifting current of transparent thoughts and fancies which were gone and succeeded by others as soon as come , saw , steady and dark , and not to be stirred from its place , the one subject that he endeavoured with all his might to rid himself of , and that he could not fly from . 
The assurance he now had , that Rigaud , whatever his right name , was one of the worst of characters , greatly augmented the burden of his anxieties . 
Though the disappearance should be accounted for tomorrow , the fact that his mother had been in communication with such a man , would remain unalterable . 
That the communication had been of a secret kind , and that she had been submissive to him and afraid of him , he hoped might be known to no one beyond himself ; yet , knowing it , how could he separate it from his old vague fears , and how believe that there was nothing evil in such relations ? 
Her resolution not to enter on the question with him , and his knowledge of her indomitable character , enhanced his sense of helplessness . 
It was like the oppression of a dream , to believe that shame and exposure were impending over her and his father 's memory , and to be shut out , as by a brazen wall , from the possibility of coming to their aid . 
The purpose he had brought home to his native country , and had ever since kept in view , was , with her greatest determination , defeated by his mother herself , at the time of all others when he feared that it pressed most . 
His advice , energy , activity , money , credit , all his resources whatsoever , were all made useless . 
If she had been possessed of the old fabled influence , and had turned those who looked upon her into stone , she could not have rendered him more completely powerless -LRB- so it seemed to him in his distress of mind -RRB- than she did , when she turned her unyielding face to his , in her gloomy room . 
But , the light of that day 's discovery , shining on these considerations , roused him to take a more decided course of action . 
Confident in the rectitude of his purpose , and impelled by a sense of overhanging danger closing in around , he resolved , if his mother would still admit of no approach , to make a desperate appeal to Affery . 
If she could be brought to become communicative , and to do what lay in her to break the spell of secresy that enshrouded the house , he might shake off the paralysis of which every hour that passed over his head made him more acutely sensible . 
This was the result of his day 's anxiety , and this was the decision he put in practice when the day closed in . 
His first disappointment , on arriving at the house , was to find the door open , and Mr. Flintwinch smoking a pipe on the steps . 
`` Good evening , '' said Arthur . 
said Arthur . 
`` I mean of the foreign man , '' Arthur explained . 
He looked so grim , as he stood askew , with the knot of his cravat under his ear , that the thought passed into Clennam 's mind , and not for the first time by many , could Flintwinch for a purpose of his own have got rid of Rigaud ? 
Could it have been his secret , and his safety , that were at issue ? 
He was small and bent , and perhaps not actively strong ; yet he was as tough as an old yew tree , and as crafty as an old jackdaw . 
While , in the morbid condition of his thoughts , these thoughts drifted over the main one that was always in Clennam 's mind , Mr. Flintwinch , regarding the opposite house over the gateway with his neck twisted and one eye shut up , stood smoking with a vicious expression upon him ; more as if he were trying to bite off the stem of his pipe , than as if he were enjoying it . 
`` You 'll be able to take my likeness , the next time you call , Arthur , I should think , '' said Mr. Flintwinch , drily , as he stooped to knock the ashes out . 
Rather conscious and confused , Arthur asked his pardon , if he had stared at him unpolitely . 
`` But my mind runs so much upon this matter , '' he said , `` that I lose myself . '' 
Yet I do n't see , '' returned Mr. Flintwinch , quite at his leisure , `` why it should trouble you , Arthur . '' 
`` No , '' said Mr. Flintwinch , very shortly and decidedly : much as if he were of the canine race , and snapped at Arthur 's hand . 
But I 'll tell you what I do see , Arthur , '' glancing up at the windows ; `` I see the light of fire and candle in your mother 's room ! '' 
Clennam stood there , following him with his eyes as he dipped for a light in the phosphorus-box in the little room at the side , got one after three or four dips , and lighted the dim lamp against the wall . 
All the while , Clennam was pursuing the probabilities -- rather as if they were being shown to him by an invisible hand than as if he himself were conjuring them up -- of Mr. Flintwinch 's ways and means of doing that darker deed , and removing its traces by any of the black avenues of shadow that lay around them . 
Arthur made no remark upon it , and repaired to his mother 's room , where Mr. Casby and Flora had been taking tea , anchovy paste , and hot buttered toast . 
Seeing this , as he exchanged the usual salutations , Clennam decided to speak to his mother without postponement . 
Therefore , when Arthur now made such an apology , and such a request , and moved her to her desk and seated himself on the stool , Mrs. Finching merely began to talk louder and faster , as a delicate hint that she could overhear nothing , and Mr. Casby stroked his long white locks with sleepy calmness . 
`` I know nothing of the antecedents of the man you saw here , Arthur . '' 
`` He has been a prisoner in a French jail . '' 
Arthur had no choice but to say that his informant had not become known to him through the agency of any such credentials , or indeed of any credentials at all . 
I say to you , Arthur , for your good , take care how you judge ! '' 
She continued to look at him ; and if , when he entered the house , he had had any latent hope of prevailing in the least with her , she now looked it out of his heart . 
Glancing at Jeremiah , Clennam saw in his very gaiters that his attention was closely directed to them , though he stood leaning against the wall scraping his jaw , and pretending to listen to Flora as she held forth in a most distracting manner on a chaos of subjects , in which mackarel , and Mr. F 's Aunt in a swing , had become entangled with cockchafers and the wine trade . 
Casby , Arthur tells me -- '' `` Stay , mother ! 
It is you , Arthur , who bring here doubts and suspicions and entreaties for explanations , and it is you , Arthur , who bring secrets here . 
After several abortive attempts to get Affery to look at him while she cleared the table and washed the tea-service , Arthur thought of an expedient which Flora might originate . 
To whom he therefore whispered , `` Could you say you would like to go through the house ? '' 
Now , poor Flora , being always in fluctuating expectation of the time when Clennam would renew his boyhood , and be madly in love with her again , received the whisper with the utmost delight ; not only as rendered precious by its mysterious character , but as preparing the way for a tender interview in which he would declare the state of his affections . 
`` Ah dear me the poor old room , '' said Flora , glancing round , `` looks just as ever Mrs. Clennam I am touched to see except for being smokier which was to be expected with time and which we must all expect and reconcile ourselves to being whether we like it or not as I am sure I have had to do myself if not exactly smokier dreadfully stouter which is the same or worse , to think of the days when papa used to bring me here the least of girls a perfect mass of chilblains to be stuck upon a chair with my feet on the rails and stare at Arthur -- pray excuse me -- Mr. Clennam -- the least of boys in the frightfullest of frills and jackets ere yet Mr. F appeared a misty shadow on the horizon paying attentions like the well-known spectre of some place in Germany beginning with a B is a moral lesson inculcating that all the paths in life are similar to the paths down in the North of England where they get the coals and make the iron and things gravelled with ashes ! '' 
`` Not that at any time , '' she proceeded , `` its worst enemy could have said it was a cheerful house for that it was never made to be but always highly impressive , fond memory recalls an occasion in youth ere yet the judgment was mature when Arthur -- confirmed habit -- Mr. Clennam -- took me down into an unused kitchen eminent for mouldiness and proposed to secrete me there for life and feed me on what he could hide from his meals when he was not at home for the holidays and on dry bread in disgrace which at that halcyon period too frequently occurred , would it be inconvenient or asking too much to beg to be permitted to revive those scenes and walk through the house ? '' 
Mrs. Clennam , who responded with a constrained grace to Mrs. Finching 's good nature in being there at all , though her visit -LRB- before Arthur 's unexpected arrival -RRB- was undoubtedly an act of pure good nature and no self-gratification , intimated that all the house was open to her . 
Flora rose and looked to Arthur for his escort . 
`` Certainly , '' said he , aloud ; `` and Affery will light us , I dare say . '' 
Affery was excusing herself with `` Do n't ask nothing of me , Arthur ! '' 
Clennam looking back , and seeing him following , three stairs behind , in the coolest and most methodical manner , exclaimed in a low voice , `` Is there no getting rid of him ! '' 
Flora re-assured his mind , by replying promptly , `` Why though not exactly proper Arthur and a thing I could n't think of before a younger man or a stranger still I do n't mind him if you so particularly wish it and provided you 'll have the goodness not to take me too tight . '' 
Wanting the heart to explain that this was not at all what he meant , Arthur extended his supporting arm round Flora 's figure . 
In this preposterous attitude , unspeakably at variance with his anxious mind , Clennam descended to the basement of the house ; finding that wherever it became darker than elsewhere , Flora became heavier , and that when the house was lightest she was too . 
Returning from the dismal kitchen-regions , which were as dreary as they could be , Mistress Affery passed with the light into his father 's old room , and then into the old dining-room ; always passing on before like a phantom that was not to be overtaken , and neither turning nor answering when he whispered , `` Affery ! 
In the dining-room , a sentimental desire came over Flora to look into the dragon closet which had so often swallowed Arthur in the days of his boyhood -- not improbably because , as a very dark closet , it was a likely place to be heavy in . 
Arthur , fast subsiding into despair , had opened it , when a knock was heard at the outer door . 
said Arthur . 
`` In the meantime , I am going to the door , sir , '' returned the old man : so savagely , as to render it clear that in a choice of difficulties he felt he must go , though he would have preferred not to go . 
The moment he was gone , Arthur released Mrs. Finching : with some difficulty , by reason of that lady 's misunderstanding his intentions , and making her arrangements with a view to tightening instead of slackening . 
`` Do n't touch me , Arthur ! '' 
she cried , shrinking from him . 
He 'll see you . 
`` He ca n't see me , '' returned Arthur , suiting the action to the word , `` if I blow the candle out . '' 
`` He ca n't hear me , '' returned Arthur , suiting the action to the word again , `` if I draw you into this black closet , and speak here . 
`` I durst n't do it , '' said Affery , `` I durst n't never , Arthur . 
`` He can not shut the door without my seeing him , '' said Arthur . 
`` I tell you , Arthur , '' she interrupted , `` noises is the secrets , rustlings and stealings about , tremblings , treads overhead and treads underneath . '' 
His old sweetheart , being in fact so near at hand that she was then reclining against him in a flutter , a very substantial angle of forty-five degrees , here interposed to assure Mistress Affery with greater earnestness than directness of asseveration , that whatever she heard should go no further , but should be kept inviolate , `` if on no other account on Arthur 's -- sensible of intruding in being too familiar Doyce and Clennam 's . '' 
`` Why , then I 'll tell you , Arthur , '' returned Affery -- `` Jeremiah 's a coming ! '' 
`` No , indeed he is not . 
The door is open , and he is standing outside , talking . 
`` I 'll tell you then , '' said Affery , after listening , `` that the first time he ever come he heard the noises his own self . 
he said to me . 
` I do n't know what it is , ' I says to him , catching hold of him , ` but I have heard it over and over again . ' 
While I says it , he stands a looking at me , all of a shake , he do . '' 
`` Has he been here often ? '' 
`` What did you see of him on the last night , after I was gone ? '' 
`` Them two clever ones had him all alone to themselves . 
`` Do n't I tell you I was sent to-bed , Arthur ! 
Here he is ! '' 
`` I assure you he is still at the door . 
Do n't ask me nothing about 'em , Arthur . 
`` You said that , before , '' returned Arthur . 
It was equally vain for Arthur to entreat , and for Flora to protest . 
I 'll call out to him , Arthur , if you do n't give over speaking to me . 
Now here 's the very last word I 'll say afore I call to him . 
The shutting of the door stopped Arthur from replying . 
They glided into the places where Jeremiah had left them ; and Clennam , stepping forward as that old gentleman returned , informed him that he had accidentally extinguished the candle . 
Flora , now permanently heavy , did not release Arthur from the survey of the house , until it had extended even to his old garret bedchamber . 
His thoughts were otherwise occupied than with the tour of inspection : yet he took particular notice at the time , as he afterwards had occasion to remember , of the airlessness and closeness of the house ; that they left the track of their footsteps in the dust on the upper floors ; and that there was a resistance to the opening of one room door , which occasioned Affery to cry out that somebody was hiding inside , and to continue to believe so , though somebody was sought and not discovered . 
When they at last returned to his mother 's room , they found her , shading her face with her muffled hand , and talking in a low voice to the Patriarch as he stood before the fire . 
With a precursory sound of hurried breath and hurried feet , Mr. Pancks rushed into Arthur Clennam 's Counting-house . 
`` I persuaded you to it , Mr. Clennam . 
returned Clennam , `` do n't speak of deserving . 
`` I , '' pursued Clennam , without attending to him , `` who have ruined my partner ! 
`` If you had never yielded to this fatal mania , Pancks , '' said Clennam , more in commiseration than retaliation , `` it would have been how much better for you , and how much better for me ! '' 
cried Pancks , grinding his teeth in remorse . 
`` If you had never gone into those accursed calculations , and brought out your results with such abominable clearness , '' groaned Clennam , `` it would have been how much better for you , Pancks , and how much better for me ! '' 
Clennam , however , finding him already beginning to be pacified , had said all he wanted to say , and more . 
`` I know it , '' returned Clennam , `` too well . '' 
`` Only yesterday , Pancks , '' said Arthur ; `` only yesterday , Monday , I had the fixed intention of selling , realising , and making an end of it . '' 
`` Mr. Clennam , had you laid out -- everything ? '' 
`` My course , '' said Clennam , brushing away some tears that had been silently dropping down his face , `` must be taken at once . 
`` Shall I fetch Rugg , Mr. Clennam ? '' 
While he was gone , Arthur never raised his head from the desk , but remained in that one position . 
`` He is not unlike what my daughter was , sir , when we began the Breach of Promise action of Rugg and Bawkins , in which she was Plaintiff , '' said Mr. Rugg . 
`` If the money I have sacrificed had been all my own , Mr. Rugg , '' sighed Clennam , `` I should have cared far less . '' 
`` Now , Mr. Clennam , by your leave , let us go into the matter . 
`` That is not the question with me , Mr. Rugg , '' said Arthur . 
`` Mr. Rugg , '' said Clennam , nerving himself to go through with what he had resolved upon , and surprising that gentleman by appearing , in his despondency , to have a settled determination of purpose ; `` you give me the impression that you will not be much disposed to adopt the course I have made up my mind to take . 
Clennam then proceeded to state to Mr. Rugg his fixed resolution . 
He told Mr. Rugg that to clear his partner morally , to the fullest extent , and publicly and unreservedly to declare that he , Arthur Clennam , of that Firm , had of his own sole act , and even expressly against his partner 's caution , embarked its resources in the swindles that had lately perished , was the only real atonement within his power ; was a better atonement to the particular man than it would be to many men ; and was therefore the atonement he had first to make . 
With this view , his intention was to print a declaration to the foregoing effect , which he had already drawn up ; and , besides circulating it among all who had dealings with the House , to advertise it in the public papers . 
Because such a declaration as Clennam 's , made at such a time , would certainly draw down upon him a storm of animosity , rendering it impossible to calculate on forbearance in the creditors , or on unanimity among them ; and exposing him a solitary target to a straggling cross-fire , which might bring him down from half a dozen quarters at once . 
To all this Clennam merely replied that , granting the whole protest , nothing in it lessened the force , or could lessen the force , of the voluntary and public exoneration of his partner . 
Upon that , Mr. Rugg fell to work ; and Arthur , retaining no property to himself but his clothes and books , and a little loose money , placed his small private banker 's - account with the papers of the business . 
`` I must take the consequences of what I have done , '' said Clennam . 
On the very next morning , as he was turning into Bleeding-Heart Yard by Mrs. Plornish 's corner , Mrs. Plornish stood at the door waiting for him , and mysteriously besought him to step into Happy Cottage . 
There he found Mr. Rugg . 
`` It can not be too soon over , '' said Clennam . 
They 'll take you soon enough , Mr. Clennam , I do n't doubt ; but , hear reason . 
asked Clennam . 
`` Mr. Rugg , '' said Arthur in his dejection , `` my only wish is , that it should be over . 
`` I would rather , '' said Clennam , `` be taken to the Marshalsea than to any other prison . '' 
The Bleeding Hearts were more interested in Arthur since his reverses than formerly : now regarding him as one who was true to the place and had taken up his freedom . 
There was nobody visibly in waiting when Arthur and Mr. Rugg arrived at the Counting-house . 
-- Mr. Clennam , I think this is the gentleman I was mentioning . '' 
`` Shall I accompany you , Mr. Clennam ? '' 
`` Where I little thought , Heaven forgive me , '' said Clennam to himself , `` that I should ever enter thus ! '' 
The younger Mr. Chivery , more distant , did not shake hands with him at all ; he stood looking at him in a state of indecision so observable , that it even came within the observation of Clennam with his heavy eyes and heavy heart . 
As Clennam knew enough of the place to know that he was required to remain in the Lodge a certain time , he took a seat in a corner , and feigned to be occupied with the perusal of letters from his pocket . 
They did not so engross his attention , but that he saw , with gratitude , how the elder Mr. Chivery kept the Lodge clear of prisoners ; how he signed to some , with his keys , not to come in , how he nudged others with his elbow to go out , and how he made his misery as easy to him as he could . 
Arthur was sitting with his eyes fixed on the floor , recalling the past , brooding over the present , and not attending to either , when he felt himself touched upon the shoulder . 
Arthur stretched out his hand . 
Surprise at this inconsistent behaviour yielded when he was gone -LRB- he went away directly -RRB- , to the feelings which the empty room awakened in Clennam 's wounded breast , and to the crowding associations with the one good and gentle creature who had sanctified it . 
Her absence in his altered fortunes made it , and him in it , so very desolate and so much in need of such a face of love and truth , that he turned against the wall to weep , sobbing out , as his heart relieved itself , `` O my Little Dorrit ! '' 
Arthur Clennam dropped into a solitary arm-chair , itself as faded as any debtor in the jail , and yielded himself to his thoughts . 
In the unnatural peace of having gone through the dreaded arrest , and got there , -- the first change of feeling which the prison most commonly induced , and from which dangerous resting-place so many men had slipped down to the depths of degradation and disgrace , by so many ways , -- he could think of some passages in his life , almost as if he were removed from them into another state of existence . 
Taking into account where he was , the interest that had first brought him there when he had been free to keep away , and the gentle presence that was equally inseparable from the walls and bars about him and from the impalpable remembrances of his later life which no walls nor bars could imprison , it was not remarkable that everything his memory turned upon should bring him round again to Little Dorrit . 
Yet it was remarkable to him ; not because of the fact itself ; but because of the reminder it brought with it , how much the dear little creature had influenced his better resolutions . 
It came to Clennam in his adversity , strongly and tenderly . 
`` When I first gathered myself together , '' he thought , `` and set something like purpose before my jaded eyes , whom had I before me , toiling on , for a good object 's sake , without encouragement , without notice , against ignoble obstacles that would have turned an army of received heroes and heroines ? 
So always , as he sat alone in the faded chair , thinking . 
Until it seemed to him as if he met the reward of having wandered away from her , and suffered anything to pass between him and his remembrance of her virtues . 
His door was opened , and the head of the elder Chivery was put in a very little way , without being turned towards him . 
`` I am off the Lock , Mr. Clennam , and going out . 
Rousing himself , Clennam observed that the prison had awakened from its noontide doze , that the inmates were loitering about the shady yard , and that it was late in the afternoon . 
He had been thinking for hours . 
Mr. Clennam , could I say a word to you ? '' 
`` Pray come in , '' said Arthur ; for , Mr. Chivery 's head was still put in at the door a very little way , and Mr. Chivery had but one ear upon him , instead of both eyes . 
Mr. Clennam , do n't you take no notice of my son -LRB- if you 'll be so good -RRB- , in case you find him cut up anyways difficult . 
`` Here 's your portmanteau , '' he said to Arthur , putting it carefully down . 
`` Why are you angry with me , '' said Clennam , `` and yet so ready to do me these kind services ? 
If I was at all fairly equal to your weight , Mr. Clennam -- which I am not ; and if you were n't under a cloud -- which you are ; and if it was n't against all rules of the Marshalsea -- which it is ; those feelings are such , that they would stimulate me , more to having it out with you in a Round on the present spot , than to anything else I could name . '' 
Arthur looked at him for a moment in some wonder , and some little anger . 
he said . 
Turning away , he sat down , with a heavy sigh , in the faded chair again . 
`` Freely granted , '' said Clennam , waving his hand , without raising his sunken head . 
Arthur raised his head again , to thank him , and to say he could not accept the favor . 
said Arthur . 
Arthur looked at him again , in vain , for any explanation of his behaviour . 
After a while , Arthur turned away his head again . 
Arthur drew the little table nearer , rested his arm upon it , and kept it there . 
`` I have not felt the want of anything yet , '' returned Clennam . 
Feeling that Young John would impose that trouble on himself if he refused , and also feeling anxious to show that he bore in mind both the elder Mr. Chivery 's entreaty , and the younger Mr. Chivery 's apology , Arthur rose and expressed his willingness to take a cup of tea in Mr. John 's apartment . 
It was the room to which Clennam had hurried , on the day when the enriched family had left the prison for ever , and where he had lifted her insensible from the floor . 
He foresaw where they were going , as soon as their feet touched the staircase . 
The room was so far changed that it was papered now , and had been repainted , and was far more comfortably furnished ; but , he could recal it just as he had seen it in that single glance , when he raised her from the ground and carried her down to the carriage . 
`` I see you recollect the room , Mr. Clennam ? '' 
The room was so eloquent to Clennam , in the changed circumstances of his return to the miserable Marshalsea ; it spoke to him so mournfully of her , and of his loss of her ; that it would have gone hard with him to resist it , even though he had not been alone . 
Clennam tried to do honor to the meal , but unavailingly . 
It was so like handing green meat into the cage of a dull imprisoned bird , and John had so evidently bought the little basket as a handfull of fresh relief from the stale hot paving-stones and bricks of the jail , that Clennam said , with a smile , `` It was very kind of you to think of putting this between the wires ; but , I can not even get this down to-day . '' 
When he had folded it into a number of layers , one over another , so that it was small in the palm of his hand , he began to flatten it between both his hands , and to eye Clennam attentively . 
`` Truly , '' returned Arthur , with a sigh and a smile , `` I do n't know for whose . '' 
`` Mr. Clennam , '' said John , warmly , `` I 'm surprised that a gentleman who is capable of the straightforwardness that you are capable of , should be capable of the mean action of making me such an answer . 
Mr. Clennam , I am surprised that a gentleman who is capable of having a heart of his own , should be capable of the heartlessness of treating mine in that way . 
Having got upon his feet to emphasise his concluding words , Young John sat down again , and fell to rolling his green packet on his right leg ; never taking his eyes off Clennam , but surveying him with a fixed look of indignant reproach . 
All amazement , Arthur gazed at him , like one lost , only saying `` What is it ? 
cried Arthur . 
Ridiculous as the incoherence of his talk was , there was yet a truthfulness in Young John 's simple , sentimental character , and a sense of being wounded in some very tender respect , expressed in his burning face and in the agitation of his voice and manner , which Arthur must have been cruel to disregard . 
He turned his thoughts back to the starting-point of this unknown injury ; and in the meantime Young John , having rolled his green packet pretty round , cut it carefully into three pieces , and laid it on a plate as if it were some particular delicacy . 
`` It seems to me just possible , '' said Arthur , when he had retraced the conversation to the water-cresses and back again , `` that you have made some reference to Miss Dorrit ? '' 
His chivalrous feeling towards all that belonged to her , made him so very respectable , in spite of his small stature and his rather weak legs , and his very weak hair , and his poetical temperament , that a Goliath might have sat in his place demanding less consideration at Arthur 's hands . 
He was quick with this unexpected retort , and it again made Arthur regard him with a wondering expression of face . 
When I say to you , Mr. Clennam , take care of yourself for some one else 's sake , why not be open though a turnkey ? 
`` Unaffectedly , John , '' said Clennam , `` you are so good a fellow , and I have so true a respect for your character , that if I have appeared to be less sensible than I really am , of the fact that the kind services you have rendered me to-day are attributable to my having been trusted by Miss Dorrit as her friend , -- I confess it to be a fault , and I ask your forgiveness . '' 
`` I declare to you , '' returned Arthur , `` that I do not understand you . 
He rose , backed into the garret-window of the room , beckoned Arthur to come there , and stood looking at him thoughtfully . 
`` Mr. Clennam , do you mean to say that you do n't know ? '' 
Clennam looked at the spikes , and looked at John ; and looked at the spikes , and looked at John . 
said Clennam . 
If he had dealt Clennam a heavy blow , instead of laying that light touch upon him , its effect could not have been to shake him more . 
No , Mr. Clennam , do n't tell me so . 
The touch was still in its influence so like a blow , that Arthur could not get many words together to close the subject with . 
He assured John Chivery when he had returned his handkerchief to his pocket , that he did all honor to his disinterestedness and to the fidelity of his remembrance of Miss Dorrit . 
As to the impression on his mind , of which he had just relieved it -- here John interposed , and said , `` No impression ! 
It may have arisen out of her softened state of mind , out of her sex 's wit , out of a woman 's quick association of ideas , or out of a woman 's no association of ideas , but it further happened somehow that Mrs. Plornish 's intelligibility displayed itself upon the very subject of Arthur 's meditations . 
`` The way father has been talking about you , Mr. Clennam , '' said Mrs. Plornish , `` you hardly would believe . 
It 's made him quite poorly . 
As to his voice , this misfortune has took it away . 
`` But what I say is , Mr. Clennam , '' the good woman went on , `` there 's always something to be thankful for , as I am sure you will yourself admit . 
Arthur thought she looked at him with particular expression . 
Of a certainty , Mrs. Plornish did look at him now , with a sort of quivering defiance in her friendly emotion . 
Mr. Plornish , as being of a more laconic temperament , embraced this opportunity of interposing with the suggestion that she should now leave Mr. Clennam to himself . 
The opinion of the community outside the prison gates bore hard on Clennam as time went on , and he made no friends among the community within . 
He arose and opened it , and an agreeable voice accosted him with `` How do you do , Mr. Clennam ? 
`` You are surprised to see me , Mr. Clennam , '' he said , taking the seat which Clennam offered him . 
Clennam again assured him that he absolved it of the responsibility . 
`` Without giving an unqualified assent to what you say , '' returned Arthur , gloomily , `` I am much obliged to you for your interest in me . '' 
`` I do not , '' said Clennam . 
asked Clennam . 
said Clennam . 
Clennam asked what became of the bowlers ? 
`` And this occasions me to congratulate myself again , '' he pursued , `` on the circumstance that our place has had nothing to do with your temporary retirement . 
Mr. Clennam , I am quite unreserved with you . 
`` I am not likely to have the opportunity , '' said Clennam . 
said Clennam . 
Believe me , Mr. Clennam , '' said the sprightly young Barnacle , in his pleasantest manner , `` our place is not a wicked Giant to be charged at full tilt ; but , only a windmill showing you , as it grinds immense quantities of chaff , which way the country wind blows . '' 
`` If I could believe that , '' said Clennam , `` it would be a dismal prospect for all of us . '' 
With this hopeful confession of his faith as the head of the rising Barnacles who were born of woman , to be followed under a variety of watchwords which they utterly repudiated and disbelieved , Ferdinand rose . 
`` Is it fair to ask , '' he said , as Clennam gave him his hand with a real feeling of thankfulness for his candour and good humour , `` whether it is true that our late lamented Merdle is the cause of this passing inconvenience ? '' 
Arthur , not being in a mood to extol the memory of the deceased , was silent . 
`` I hope , '' said Arthur , `` that he and his dupes may be a warning to people not to have so much done with them again . '' 
`` My dear Mr. Clennam , '' returned Ferdinand , laughing , `` have you really such a verdant hope ? 
The cost of being moved to the Bench is almost insignificant , and if the general feeling is strong that you ought to be there , why -- really -- '' `` I thought you had settled , Mr. Rugg , '' said Arthur , `` that my determination to remain here was a matter of taste . '' 
Arthur 's thoughts had once more wandered away to Little Dorrit , and the question remained unanswered . 
So errant had the prisoner 's attention already grown in solitude and dejection , and so accustomed had it become to commune with only one silent figure within the ever-frowning walls , that Clennam had to shake off a kind of stupor before he could look at Mr. Rugg , recall the thread of his talk , and hurriedly say , `` I am unchanged , and unchangeable , in my decision . 
`` That 's well , '' returned Arthur . 
`` I suppose I have no resource but to see him , '' sighed Clennam , wearily . 
The gentleman of military exterior had so imperfectly awakened Clennam 's curiosity , in the existing state of his mind , that a half forgetfulness of such a visitor 's having been referred to , was already creeping over it as a part of the sombre veil which almost always dimmed it now , when a heavy footstep on the stairs aroused him . 
Before Arthur could speak to him in his indignant wonder , Cavalletto followed him into the room . 
said Arthur . 
Monsieur Rigaud , after frowning at him for a moment , laughed . 
interposed Cavalletto , also addressing Arthur : `` for to commence , hear me ! 
he cried in conclusion , addressing Arthur again . 
At the close of this recital , Arthur turned his eyes upon the impudent and wicked face . 
As it met his , the nose came down over the moustache , and the moustache went up under the nose . 
When nose and moustache had settled into their places again , Monsieur Rigaud loudly snapped his fingers half a dozen times ; bending forward to jerk the snaps at Arthur , as if they were palpable missiles which he jerked into his face . 
`` I want to know , '' returned Arthur , without disguising his abhorrence , `` how you dare direct a suspicion of murder against my mother 's house ? '' 
`` I want that suspicion to be cleared away , '' said Arthur . 
White to the lips , Rigaud stroked his moustache , muttering `` By Heaven , my small boy , but you are a little compromising of my lady your respectable mother '' -- and seemed for a minute undecided how to act . 
His indecision was soon gone . 
He sat himself down with a threatening swagger , and said : `` Give me a bottle of wine . 
`` Fetch him what he wants , Cavelletto , '' said Arthur scornfully , producing the money . 
The contraband beast , however , assuring all present , with his significant finger , that he peremptorily declined to leave his post at the door , Signor Panco offered his services . 
He soon returned , with the bottle of wine : which , according to the custom of the place , originating in a scarcity of corkscrews among the Collegians -LRB- in common with a scarcity of much else -RRB- , was already opened for use . 
Signor Panco put a tumbler before him ; not without a visible conflict of feeling on the question of throwing it at his head . 
He half filled the tumbler as he said it , and drank off the contents when he had done saying it . 
smacking his lips . 
He tossed off another half glass : holding it up both before and afterwards , so as to display his small , white hand . 
`` To business , '' he then continued . 
Now that he was confronted with Cavalletto , and knew that his story was known -- whatever thin disguise he had worn , he dropped ; and faced it out , with a bare face , as the infamous wretch he was . 
`` No , my son , '' he resumed , with a snap of his fingers . 
He threw out the lees of his glass on the ground , so that they nearly spattered Cavalletto . 
This seemed to draw his attention to him anew . 
He set down his glass and said : `` I 'll not fill it . 
The little man looked at Clennam , whose eyes were occupied with Rigaud , and , seeing no prohibition , got up from the ground , and poured out from the bottle into the glass . 
The blending , as he did so , of his old submission with a sense of something humorous ; the striving of that with a certain smouldering ferocity , which might have flashed fire in an instant -LRB- as the born gentleman seemed to think , for he had a wary eye upon him -RRB- ; and the easy yielding of all , to a good-natured , careless , predominant propensity to sit down on the ground again ; formed a very remarkable combination of character . 
Never had Clennam felt more acutely that he was a prisoner in bonds , than when he saw this man before him , and could not accompany him to his mother 's house . 
All the undiscernible difficulties and dangers he had ever feared , were closing in , when he could not stir hand or foot . 
`` Perhaps , my friend , philosopher , man of virtue , Imbecile , what you will ; perhaps , '' said Rigaud , pausing in his drink to look out of his glass with his horrible smile , `` you would have done better to leave me alone ? '' 
At least , '' said Clennam , `` you are known to be alive and unharmed . 
`` But will not produce me before one , '' said Rigaud , snapping his fingers again with an air of triumphant menace . 
Cavalletto got up again as before , and laid them before him in his former manner . 
`` I kiss the hands of Madame F. '' When he had finished this epistle , Rigaud folded it , and tossed it with a flourish at Clennam 's feet . 
`` Cavalletto , '' said Arthur . 
But , Cavalletto 's significant finger again expressing that his post was at the door to keep watch over Rigaud , now he had found him with so much trouble , and that the duty of his post was to sit on the floor backed up by the door , looking at Rigaud and holding his own ankles , -- Signor Panco once more volunteered . 
His services being accepted , Cavalletto suffered the door to open barely wide enough to admit of his squeezing himself out , and immediately shut it on him . 
`` You know , '' returned Clennam , with a bitter sense of his helplessness , `` that when I sought you , I was not a prisoner . '' 
`` To the Devil with you and your prison , '' retorted Rigaud , leisurely , as he took from his pocket a case containing the materials for making cigarettes , and employed his facile hands in folding a few for present use ; `` I care for neither of you . 
Again Cavalletto got up , and gave him what he wanted . 
There had been something dreadful in the noiseless skill of his cold , white hands , with the fingers lithely twisting about and twining one over another like serpents . 
Clennam could not prevent himself from shuddering inwardly , as if he had been looking on at a nest of those creatures . 
He smoked his cigarette out , with his ugly smile so fixed upon his face , that he looked as though he were smoking with his drooping beak of a nose , rather than his mouth ; like a fancy in a weird picture . 
When he had lighted a second cigarette at the still-burning end of the first , he said to Clennam : `` One must pass the time in the madman 's absence . 
`` I neither know nor ask , '' said Clennam , `` of whom you speak . '' 
Rigaud took his cigarette from his mouth , and eyed him with a momentary revelation of surprise . 
But , he put it between his lips again , as he answered with coolness : `` I sell anything that commands a price . 
Clennam turned away from him towards the window , and sat looking out at the wall . 
He received no answer , but could easily discern that he had hit the mark . 
he went on , `` that handsome lady and strong spirit addresses me in the street , and I am not insensible . 
Though Clennam 's back was turned while he spoke , and thenceforth to the end of the interview , he kept those glittering eyes of his that were too near together , upon him , and evidently saw in the very carriage of the head , as he passed , with his braggart recklessness , from clause to clause of what he said , that he was saying nothing which Clennam did not already know . 
he said , lighting a third cigarette with a sound as if his lightest breath could blow her away . 
`` I earnestly hope , '' cried Arthur aloud , `` that Pancks may not be long gone , for this man 's presence pollutes the room . '' 
But he 'll flourish here , and everywhere , '' said Rigaud , with an exulting look and snap of his fingers . 
Stretching his body out on the only three chairs in the room besides that on which Clennam sat , he sang , smiting himself on the breast as the gallant personage of the song : `` Who passes by this road so late ? 
Partly in his old habit of submission , partly because his not doing it might injure his benefactor , and partly because he would as soon do it as anything else , cavalletto took up the Refrain this time . 
Rigaud laughed , and fell to smoking with his eyes shut . 
Possibly another quarter of an hour elapsed before Mr. Pancks 's step was heard upon the stairs , but the interval seemed to Clennam insupportably long . 
`` Well , Arthur . 
You have brought your pigs to a very indifferent market , Arthur . '' 
If Arthur had patience , Rigaud had not . 
He took his little Flintwinch , with fierce playfulness , by the two lappels of his coat , and cried : `` To the Devil with the Market , to the Devil with the Pigs , and to the Devil with the Pig-Driver ! 
`` If you can make it convenient to let go a moment , sir , '' returned Mr. Flintwinch , `` I 'll first hand Mr. Arthur a little note that I have for him . '' 
Your affectionate M. C. '' Clennam read this twice , in silence , and then tore it to pieces . 
In answer to Cavalletto 's look of enquiry , Clennam made him a sign to go ; but he added aloud , `` unless you are afraid of him . '' 
Rigaud took no notice of either remark , until he had lighted his last cigarette and was quite ready for walking . 
`` Afraid of him , '' he said then , looking round upon them all . 
With this adaptation of the Refrain to himself , he stalked out of the room , closely followed by Cavalletto , whom perhaps he had pressed into his service because he tolerably well knew it would not be easy to get rid of him . 
Mr. Flintwinch , after scraping his chin and looking about with caustic disparagement of the Pig-Market , nodded to Arthur , and followed . 
Mr. Pancks , still penitent and depressed , followed too ; after receiving with great attention a secret word or two of instructions from Arthur , and whispering back that he would see this affair out , and stand by it to the end . 
Next morning , Clennam felt that his health was sinking , as his spirits had already sunk , and that the weight under which he bent was bearing him down . 
Night after night , he had arisen from his bed of wretchedness at twelve or one o'clock , and had sat at his window watching the sickly lamps in the yard , and looking upward for the first wan trace of day , hours before it was possible that the sky could show it to him . 
Now , when the night came , he could not even persuade himself to undress . 
For , a burning restlessness set in , an agonised impatience of the prison , and a conviction that he was going to break his heart and die there , which caused him indescribable suffering . 
His dread and hatred of the place became so intense that he felt it a labor to draw his breath in it . 
The sensation of being stifled , sometimes so overpowered him , that he would stand at the window holding his throat and gasping . 
At the same time , a longing for other air , and a yearning to be beyond the blind blank wall , made him feel as if he must go mad with the ardor of the desire . 
Many other prisoners had had experience of this condition before him , and its violence and continuity had worn themselves out in their cases , as they did in his . 
A desolate calm succeeded ; and the middle of the week found him settled down in the despondency of low , slow fever . 
Through all these changes of unhappiness , however , it had never lost its hold on Clennam 's mind . 
With an aching head and a weary heart , Clennam had watched the miserable night out , listening to the fall of rain on the yard pavement , thinking of its softer fall upon the country earth . 
A blurred circle of yellow haze had risen up in the sky in lieu of sun , and he had watched the patch it put upon his wall , like a bit of the prison 's raggedness . 
He had heard the gates open ; and the badly shod feet that waited outside shuffle in ; and the sweeping , and pumping , and moving about , begin , which commenced the prison morning . 
So ill and faint , that he was obliged to rest many times in the process of getting himself washed , he had at length crept to his chair by the open window . 
In it he sat dozing , while the old woman who arranged his room went through her morning 's work . 
Light of head with want of sleep and want of food -LRB- his appetite , and even his sense of taste , having forsaken him -RRB- , he had been two or three times conscious , in the night , of going astray . 
He had heard fragments of tunes and songs , in the warm wind , which he knew had no existence . 
Now that he began to doze in exhaustion , he heard them again ; and voices seemed to address him , and he answered , and started . 
Dozing and dreaming , without the power of reckoning time , so that a minute might have been an hour and an hour a minute , some abiding impression of a garden stole over him -- a garden of flowers , with a damp warm wind gently stirring their scents . 
It required such a painful effort to lift his head for the purpose of enquiring into this , or enquiring into anything , that the impression appeared to have become quite an old and importunate one when he looked round . 
Beside the tea-cup on his table he saw , then , a blooming nosegay : a wonderful handful of the choicest and most lovely flowers . 
Nothing had ever appeared so beautiful in his sight . 
He took them up and inhaled their fragrance , and he lifted them to his hot head , and he put them down and opened his parched hands to them , as cold hands are opened to receive the cheering of a fire . 
It was not until he had delighted in them for some time , that he wondered who had sent them ; and opened his door to ask the woman who must have put them there , how they had come into her hands . 
But , she was gone , and seemed to have been long gone ; for the tea she had left for him on the table was cold . 
He tried to drink some , but could not bear the odour of it ; so he crept back to his chair by the open window , and put the flowers on the little round table of old . 
When the first faintness consequent on having moved about had left him , he subsided into his former state . 
One of the night-tunes was playing in the wind , when the door of his room seemed to open to a light touch , and , after a moment 's pause , a quiet figure seemed to stand there , with a black mantle on it . 
It seemed to draw the mantle off and drop it on the ground , and then it seemed to be his Little Dorrit in her old , worn dress . 
He roused himself , and cried out . 
And then he saw , in the loving , pitying , sorrowing , dear face , as in a mirror , how changed he was ; and she came towards him ; and with her hands laid on his breast to keep him in his chair , and with her knees upon the floor at his feet , and with her lips raised up to kiss him , and with her tears dropping on him as the rain from Heaven had dropped upon the flowers , Little Dorrit , a living presence , called him by his name . 
Dear Mr. Clennam , do n't let me see you weep ! 
In the sound of her voice , in the light of her eyes , in the touch of her hands , so Angelically comforting and true ! 
As he embraced her , she said to him , `` They never told me you were ill , '' and drawing an arm softly round his neck , laid his head upon her bosom , put a hand upon his head , and resting her cheek upon that hand , nursed him as lovingly , and God knows as innocently , as she had nursed her father in that room when she had been but a baby , needing all the care from others that she took of them . 
Looking round , he saw Maggy in her big cap which had been long abandoned , with a basket on her arm as in the bygone days , chuckling rapturously . 
`` I have thought of you -- '' he hesitated what to call her . 
She perceived it in an instant . 
He saw the bright delight of her face , and the flush that kindled in it , with a feeling of shame . 
She looked something more womanly than when she had gone away , and the ripening touch of the Italian sun was visible upon her face . 
But , otherwise she was quite unchanged . 
The same deep , timid earnestness that he had always seen in her , and never without emotion , he saw still . 
If it had a new meaning that smote him to the heart , the change was in his perception , not in her . 
She took off her old bonnet , hung it in the old place , and noiselessly began , with Maggy 's help , to make his room as fresh and neat as it could be made , and to sprinkle it with a pleasant smelling water . 
To see the modest head again bent down over its task , and the nimble fingers busy at their old work -- though she was not so absorbed in it but that her compassionate eyes were often raised to his face , and , when they dropped again , had tears in them -- to be so consoled and comforted , and to believe that all the devotion of this great nature was turned to him in his adversity , to pour out its inexhaustible wealth of goodness upon him , did not steady Clennam 's trembling voice or hand , or strengthen him in his weakness . 
Yet , it inspired him with an inward fortitude , that rose with his love . 
And how dearly he loved her , now , what words can tell ! 
As they sat side by side , in the shadow of the wall , the shadow fell like light upon him . 
She would not let him speak much , and he lay back in his chair , looking at her . 
Now and again , she would rise and give him the glass that he might drink , or would smooth the resting-place of his head ; then she would gently resume her seat by him , and bend over her work again . 
The shadow moved with the sun , but she never moved from his side , except to wait upon him . 
She had done her work now , and her hand , faltering on the arm of his chair since its last tending of him , was hesitating there yet . 
He laid his hand upon it , and it clasped him with a trembling supplication . 
`` Dear Mr. Clennam , I must say something to you before I go . 
She nervously moved her hand towards his lips as if to stop him ; then it dropped , trembling , into its former place . 
He would have spoken ; but she put up her trembling hand again , and he stopped . 
Dear Mr. Clennam , make me of all the world the happiest , by saying Yes ! 
The star had shone on her face until now , when her face sank upon his hand and her own . 
It had grown darker when he raised her in his encircling arm , and softly answered her . 
She besought him , more pathetically and earnestly , with her little supplicatory hand , than she could have done in any words . 
He took her in his arms , as if she had been his daughter . 
He took her mantle from the wall , and tenderly wrapped it round her . 
Again tenderly wrapping her mantle about her , and taking her on his arm -LRB- though , but for her visit , he was almost too weak to walk -RRB- , Arthur led Little Dorrit down-stairs . 
With the funeral clang that it sounded into Arthur 's heart , his sense of weakness returned . 
It was a toilsome journey up-stairs to his room , and he re-entered its dark solitary precincts , in unutterable misery . 
When it was almost midnight , and the prison had long been quiet , a cautious creak came up the stairs , and a cautious tap of a key was given at his door . 
He glided in , in his stockings , and held the door closed , while he spoke in a whisper . 
Clennam , much affected , stretched out his hand to this honest spirit . 
Clennam shook his head . 
``` Tell him , ''' repeated John , in a distinct , though quavering voice , ``` that his Little Dorrit sent him her undying love . ' 
We have done all we undertook to do for Mr. Clennam . 
His constant anxiety has been -LRB- and it grew worse upon him when he became a prisoner -RRB- , that this agreeable gentleman should be brought back here , to the place from which he slipped away . 
`` I am sorry not to leave you in better company , ma'am , '' said Pancks ; `` and sorry , too , that Mr. Clennam ca n't be present . 
`` You mean his own , '' she returned . 
`` No , I mean mine , ma'am , '' said Pancks , `` for it was my misfortune to lead him into a ruinous investment . '' 
Mr. Clennam ought to have been at this moment in his carriage-and-pair , and I ought to have been worth from three to five thousand pound . '' 
It was this officious refugee , '' said Jeremiah to Mrs. Clennam , `` who came knocking at the door , on the night when Arthur and Chatterbox were here , and who asked me a whole Catechism of questions about Mr. Rigaud . '' 
If Mr. Clennam was here -- but unfortunately , though he has so far got the better of this fine gentleman as to return him to this place against his will , he is ill and in prison -- ill and in prison , poor fellow -- if he was here , '' said Mr. Pancks , taking one step aside towards the window-seat , and laying his right hand upon the stocking ; `` he would say , ` Affery , tell your dreams ! 
I told Arthur when he first come home , to stand up against you . 
I told him it was no reason , because I was afeard of my life of you , that he should be . 
I 'll up for Arthur when he has nothing left , and is ill , and in prison , and ca n't up for himself . 
`` How do you know , you heap of confusion , '' asked Mrs. Clennam sternly , `` that in doing what you are doing now , you are even serving Arthur ? '' 
I 've heerd in my dreams , of Arthur 's father and his uncle . 
He 's a talking of them . 
It was before my time here ; but I 've heerd in my dreams that Arthur 's father was a poor , irresolute , frightened chap , who had had everything but his orphan life scared out of him when he was young , and that he had no voice in the choice of his wife even , but his uncle chose her . 
`` But it was one of my dreams that you told her , when you quarrelled with her one winter evening , at dusk -- there she sits and you looking at her -- that she ought n't to have let Arthur , when he come home , suspect his father , only ; that she had always had the strength and the power ; and that she ought to have stood up more , to Arthur , for his father . 
She tried again to repress herself , but broke out vehemently , `` Not Arthur 's mother ! '' 
When old Mr. Gilbert Clennam proposed his orphan nephew to my father for my husband , my father impressed upon me that his bringing-up had been , like mine , one of severe restraint . 
If the presence of Arthur was a daily reproach to his father , and if the absence of Arthur was a daily agony to his mother , that was the just dispensation of Jehovah . 
Arthur 's father and I lived no further apart , with half the globe between us , than when we were together in this house . 
`` Wretch , that you are , '' she answered , and now her hands clasped her head ; `` through what fatal error of Flintwinch 's , through what incompleteness on his part , who was the only other person helping in these things and trusted with them , through whose and what bringing together of the ashes of a burnt paper , you have become possessed of that codicil , I know no more than how you acquired the rest of your power here -- '' `` And yet , '' interrupted Rigaud , `` it is my odd fortune to have by me , in a convenient place that I know of , that same short little addition to the will of Monsieur Gilbert Clennam , written by a lady and witnessed by the same lady , and our old intriguer ! 
`` If Gilbert Clennam , reduced to imbecility , at the point of death , and laboring under the delusion of some imaginary relenting towards a girl , of whom he had heard that his nephew had once had a fancy for her , which he had crushed out of him , and that she afterwards dropped away into melancholy and withdrawal from all who knew her -- if , in that state of weakness , he dictated to me , whose life she had darkened with her sin , and who had been appointed to know her wickedness from her own hand and her own lips , a bequest meant as a recompense to her for supposed unmerited suffering ; was there no difference between my spurning that injustice , and coveting mere money -- a thing which you , and your comrades in the prisons , may steal from any one ? '' 
Then Arthur 's father , who has all along been secretly pining in the ways of virtuous ruggedness , for those accursed snares which are called the Arts , becomes acquainted with her . 
`` Lastly , '' she continued , `` for I am at the end of these things , and I will say no more of them , and you shall say no more of them , and all that remains will be to determine whether the knowledge of them can be kept among us who are here present ; lastly , when I suppressed that paper , with the knowledge of Arthur 's father -- '' `` But not with his consent , you know , '' said Mr. Flintwinch . 
`` Who said with his consent ? '' 
`` You were often enough between us , when he would have had me produce it and I would not , to have contradicted me if I had said , with his consent . 
The rest of the Gilbert property being left to Arthur 's father , I could at any time , without unsettling more than the two sums , have made a pretence of finding it . 
The person as this man has spoken of , was Jeremiah 's own twin brother ; and he was here in the dead of the night , on the night when Arthur come home , and Jeremiah with his own hands give him this paper , along with I do n't know what more , and he took it away in an iron box . 
At last , when we are expecting Arthur home every day , and when any day may bring him home , and it 's impossible to say what rummaging he may make about the house , I recommend you five thousand times , if you ca n't get at it , to let me get at it , that it may be put in the fire . 
On a Sunday night , Arthur comes home . 
He has not been in this room ten minutes , when he speaks of his father 's watch . 
You know very well that the Do Not Forget , at the time when his father sent that watch to you , could only mean , the rest of the story being then all dead and over , Do Not Forget the suppression . 
Arthur 's ways have frightened you a bit , and the paper shall be burnt after all . 
So , before that jumping jade and Jezabel , '' Mr. Flintwinch grinned at his wife , `` has got you into bed , you at last tell me where you have put the paper , among the old ledgers in the cellars , where Arthur himself went prowling the very next morning . 
When Arthur 's mother had been under the care of him and his wife , she had been always writing , incessantly writing , -- mostly letters of confession to you , and Prayers for forgiveness . 
Convinced that it was advisable to get the paper out of the place , with Arthur coming about it , I put it into this same box , and I locked the whole up with two locks , and I trusted it to my brother to take away and keep , till I should write about it . 
I can do poor Arthur no good now , that I see ; and you need n't be afraid of me . 
Ask Flintwinch -- ask him . 
They can both tell you that she died , when Arthur went abroad . '' 
`` Mr. Clennam 's mother ? '' 
She had better be told it is his mother . '' 
`` You have had a packet left with you , which you were to give to Arthur if it was not reclaimed before this place closed to-night . '' 
`` The great petition that I make to you -LRB- there is another which grows out of it -RRB- , the great supplication that I address to your merciful and gentle heart , is , that you will not disclose this to Arthur until I am dead . 
If I should be quite sure that to be acquainted with it will do Mr. Clennam no good -- '' `` I know you are attached to him , and will make him the first consideration . 
It is right that he should be the first consideration ; I ask that . 
But , having regarded him , and still finding that you may spare me for the little time I shall remain on earth , will you do it ? '' 
-- For , she did wrong me ! 
She not only sinned grievously against the Lord , but she wronged me . 
What Arthur 's father was to me , she made him . 
From our marriage day I was his dread , and that she made me . 
I was the scourge of both , and that is referable to her . 
You love Arthur -LRB- I can see the blush upon your face ; may it be the dawn of happier days to both of you ! -RRB- 
, and you will have thought already that he is as merciful and kind as you , and why do I not trust myself to him as soon as to you . 
`` No thought , '' said Little Dorrit , `` can be quite a stranger to my heart , that springs out of the knowledge that Mr. Clennam is always to be relied upon for being kind and generous and good . '' 
Yet Arthur is , of the whole world , the one person from whom I would conceal this , while I am in it . 
I can keep this from Arthur , only by buying him off . 
He asks a large sum ; more than I can get together to pay him , without having time . 
He refuses to make any abatement , because his threat is , that if he fails with me he will come to you . 
Will you return with me , and show him that you already know it ? 
Will you return with me and try to prevail with him ? 
Will you come and help me with him ? 
Do not refuse what I ask in Arthur 's name , though I dare not ask it for Arthur 's sake ! '' 
Arthur continuing to lie very ill in the Marshalsea , and Mr. Rugg descrying no break in the legal sky affording a hope of his enlargement , Mr. Pancks suffered desperately from self-reproaches . 
If it had not been for those infallible figures which proved that Arthur , instead of pining in imprisonment , ought to be promenading in a carriage and pair , and that Mr. Pancks , instead of being restricted to his clerkly wages , ought to have from three to five thousand pounds of his own , at his immediate disposal , that unhappy arithmetician would probably have taken to his bed , and there have made one of the many obscure persons who turned their faces to the wall and died , as a last sacrifice to the late Mr. Merdle 's greatness . 
Besides calling much too often to inquire for Mrs. Clennam , Mrs. Clennam , who is not just now in circumstances that are by any means calculated to -- to be satisfactory to all parties , she goes , Mr. Pancks , unless I am much deceived , to inquire for Mr. Clennam in jail . 
`` He 's laid up , you know , '' said Pancks . 
The Marshalsea walls , during a portion of every day , again embraced her in their shadows as their child while she thought for Clennam , worked for him , watched him , and only left him still to devote her utmost love and care to him . 
Arthur being far too ill to be spoken with on subjects of emotion or anxiety , and his recovery greatly depending on the repose into which his weakness could be hushed , Little Dorrit 's sole reliance during this heavy period was on Mr. Meagles . 
He was still abroad ; but , she had written to him , through his daughter , immediately after first seeing Arthur in the Marshalsea , and since , confiding her uneasiness to him on the points on which she was most anxious , but especially on one . 
At Paris , Mr. Meagles found a letter from Little Dorrit , lying waiting for him ; in which she mentioned that she had been able to talk for a minute or two with Mr. Clennam , about this man who was no more ; and that when she told Mr. Clennam that his friend Mr. Meagles who was on his way to see him had an interest in ascertaining something about the man if he could , he had asked her to tell Mr. Meagles that he had been known to Miss Wade , then living in such a street at Calais . 
`` I have heard from my friend Clennam , who , you will be sorry to hear , has been and still is very ill -- '' He paused again , and again she was silent . 
But , the question is , '' Mr. Meagles 's voice here became comfortable again , `` did he , on his way to England last time , leave a box of papers , or a bundle of papers , or some papers or other in some receptacle or other -- any papers -- with you : begging you to allow him to leave them here for a short time , until he wanted them ? '' 
`` And not only mine , but Clennam 's question , and other people 's question . 
Mr. Clennam was slowly mending ; and Maggy and Mrs. Plornish and Mr. Baptist took care of him by turns . 
Mistrustful that it might be hazardous to Arthur to see him without preparation , Mr. Meagles accepted the offer ; and they were left shut up in the room , looking down through its barred window into the jail . 
Had I better see Arthur to-night ? '' 
I will go to his room and ascertain how he is . 
But I think it will be better not to see him to-night . '' 
`` I am much of your opinion , my dear , '' said Mr. Meagles , `` and therefore I have not been any nearer to him than this dismal room . 
Then I shall probably not see him for some little time to come . 
She was soon in the room , and recommended that Arthur , whom she had left calm and composed , should not be visited that night . 
This place has taken my breath away , and I shall never get it back again until Arthur is out of this place . '' 
Go at once I must , it stands to reason ; because I ca n't live , without breathing freely ; and I ca n't breathe freely , until Arthur is out of this Marshalsea . 
`` You remind me of the days , '' said Mr. Meagles , suddenly drooping -- `` but she 's very fond of him , and hides his faults , and thinks that no one sees them -- and he certainly is well connected , and of a very good family ! '' 
Yet Clennam , listening to the voice as it read to him , heard in it all that great Nature was doing , heard in it all the soothing songs she sings to man . 
`` This will soon be over now , dear Mr. Clennam . 
Arthur was more shocked than surprised to hear it . 
`` I had hoped it might not be so bad , '' he said : `` but I had feared a heavy loss there , knowing the connexion between her husband and the defaulter . '' 
As Arthur looked at her enquiringly , with a new apprehension on him , she withdrew her hand , and laid her face down on the spot where it had rested . 
Locked in his arms , held to his heart , with his manly tears upon her own cheek , she drew the slight hand round his neck , and clasped it in its fellow-hand . 
`` Never to part , my dearest Arthur ; never any more until the last ! 
`` Painfully aware , Miss Dorrit , I am sure , '' said Flora , `` that to propose an adjournment to any place to one so far removed by fortune and so courted and caressed by the best society must ever appear intruding even if not a pie-shop far below your present sphere and a backparlor though a civil man but if for the sake of Arthur -- can not overcome it more improper now than over late Doyce and Clennam -- one last remark I might wish to make one last explanation I might wish to offer perhaps your good nature might excuse under pretence of three kidney ones the humble place of conversation . '' 
`` If Fancy 's fair dreams , '' she began , `` have ever pictured that when Arthur -- can not overcome it pray excuse me -- was restored to freedom even a pie as far from flaky as the present and so deficient in kidney as to be in that respect like a minced nutmeg might not prove unacceptable if offered by the hand of true regard such visions have for ever fled and all is cancelled but being aware that tenderer relations are in contemplation beg to state that I heartily wish well to both and find no fault with either not the least , it may be withering to know that ere the hand of Time had made me much less slim than formerly and dreadfully red on the slightest exertion particularly after eating I well know when it takes the form of a rash it might have been and was not through the interruption of parents and mental torpor succeeded until the mysterious clue was held by Mr. F still I would not be ungenerous to either and I heartily wish well to both . '' 
`` Call it not kindness , '' returned Flora , giving her an honest kiss , `` for you always were the best and dearest little thing that ever was if I may take the liberty and even in a money point of view a saving being Conscience itself though I must add much more agreeable than mine ever was to me for though not I hope more burdened than other people 's yet I have always found it far readier to make one uncomfortable than comfortable and evidently taking a greater pleasure in doing it but I am wandering , one hope I wish to express ere yet the closing scene draws in and it is that I do trust for the sake of old times and old sincerity that Arthur will know that I did n't desert him in his misfortunes but that I came backwards and forwards constantly to ask if I could do anything for him and that I sat in the pie shop where they very civilly fetched something warm in a tumbler from the hotel and really very nice hours after hours to keep him company over the way without his knowing it . '' 
`` Over and above which , '' said Flora , `` I earnestly beg you as the dearest thing that ever was if you 'll still excuse the familiarity from one who moves in very different circles to let Arthur understand that I do n't know after all whether it was n't all nonsense between us though pleasant at the time and trying too and certainly Mr. F did work a change and the spell being broken nothing could be expected to take place without weaving it afresh which various circumstances have combined to prevent of which perhaps not the least powerful was that it was not to be , I am not prepared to say that if it had been agreeable to Arthur and had brought itself about naturally in the first instance I should not have been very glad being of a lively disposition and moped at home where papa undoubtedly is the most aggravating of his sex and not improved since having been cut down by the hand of the Incendiary into something of which I never saw the counterpart in all my life but jealousy is not my character nor ill-will though many faults . '' 
As she was observed at this time to direct baleful glances towards the Marshalsea , it has been supposed that this admirably consistent female intended by `` him , '' Arthur Clennam . 
One morning , as Arthur listened for the light feet , that every morning ascended winged to his heart , bringing the heavenly brightness of a new love into the room where the old love had wrought so hard and been so true ; one morning , as he listened , he heard her coming , not alone . 
`` Dear Arthur , '' said her delighted voice outside the door , `` I have some one here . 
He answered `` Yes , '' and she came in with Mr. Meagles . 
Sunbrowned and jolly Mr. Meagles looked , and he opened his arms and folded Arthur in them , like a sunbrowned and jolly father . 
Arthur , my dear fellow , confess at once that you expected me before . '' 
`` I did , '' said Arthur ; `` but Amy told me -- '' `` Little Dorrit . 
-LRB- It was she who whispered it -RRB- . 
sighed Arthur . 
cried Arthur . 
`` If you had brought me -LRB- except for Doyce 's sake -RRB- twice what I have lost , '' cried Arthur , `` you would not have given me the pleasure that you give me in this news . '' 
exclaimed Arthur . 
The long and the short of it is , Arthur , we have both been in England this fortnight . 
And if you go on to ask where Doyce is at the present moment , why , my plain answer is -- here he is ! 
Doyce darted in from behind the door , caught Arthur by both hands , and said the rest for himself . 
`` There are only three branches of my subject , my dear Clennam , '' said Doyce , proceeding to mould them severally , with his plastic thumb on the palm of his hand , `` and they 're soon disposed of . 
My dear Clennam , I thoroughly confide in you ; you have it in your power to be quite as useful to me , as I have , or have had , it in my power to be useful to you ; your old place awaits you , and wants you very much ; there is nothing to detain you here , one half-hour longer . '' 
There was a silence , which was not broken until Arthur had stood for some time at the window with his back towards them , and until his little wife that was to be , had gone to him and stayed by him . 
I said there was nothing to detain you here , Clennam , half an hour longer . 
`` You do , '' returned Arthur . 
`` I think , Arthur , you will not want Mother and me in the morning , and we will keep away . 
`` My dear love , '' said Arthur . 
`` It is any thing you like best , my own , '' she answered , laughing with glistening eyes and standing on tiptoe to kiss him , `` if you will only humour me when the fire burns up . '' 
So they stood before the fire , waiting : Clennam with his arm about her waist , and the fire shining , as fire in that same place had often shone , in Little Dorrit 's eyes . 
said Arthur . 
asked Arthur , as he held the paper over the flame . 
And there , Mr. Pancks -LRB- destined to be chief clerk to Doyce and Clennam , and afterwards partner in the house -RRB- , sinking the Incendiary in the peaceful friend , looked in at the door to see it done , with Flora gallantly supported on one arm and Maggy on the other , and a back ground of John Chivery and father , and other turnkeys , who had run round for the moment , deserting the parent Marshalsea for its happy child . 
