Be advised by me , and profit by it , Mr. Trevor . 
If you please , I will attend you to his lordship . 
You conceive me , Mr. Trevor ? ' 
I had acuteness enough to conceive the selfishness of his motives , which was more than he intended ; but I acceded to the proposal , for I was almost as averse to giving as to receiving pain : beside I was a stranger , and he would be my conductor . 
` Will you have the goodness to begin again , Mr. Trevor ? ' 
We have made up a little conversazione party of our own , and you want to spoil it by taking Mr. Trevor from us ! 
` Yes , Mr. Trevor , ' continued he , ` government is indeed corrupt ! 
I am exceedingly happy , Mr. Trevor , to find you reason so justly on these subjects ; and to say the truth I shall be-very glad of your assistance . ' 
I answered his lordship that I should be equally glad , if I could contribute to the good government and improvement of mankind by correcting their present errors ; and that the vices I had mentioned , and every other vice that I could discover , I should always think it my duty to oppose . 
` That , ' answered his lordship , ` is right , Mr. Trevor ! 
Your principles and mine are the same , and I am resolved he shall repent of having made me his enemy ! 
I communicated much of the torture which I felt , but collecting himself he looked at me with some compassion and much stedfastness , and answered -- ` I most sincerely wish , Mr. Trevor , that what I have to say , since you require me to speak , were exactly that which you expected I should say . 
-- ` I am sorry to observe , Mr. Trevor , that my candour has already been offensive to your feelings . 
He made no reply , and I repeated my requisition , that he should point out all the defects of my manuscript : once more , all , all ! 
` The defects , Mr. Trevor , ' said he , ` are many of them such as are common to young writers ; but some of them are peculiar to writers whose imagination is strong , and whose judgment is unformed . 
-- ` Your importunity , Mr. Trevor , and my desire to do you service have extorted an opinion from me . 
He was once more silent for a few seconds , and then assuming a less serious tone , endeavoured to turn the conversation by inquiring if I were come to reside in London , and to live with his lordship ? 
I took care to inform him that I considered myself as a visitor in the house ; and that I meant to take my degrees , be ordained , and devote myself to the church . 
` You have enjoined me a task , ' said he , ` Mr. Trevor , which I do not know how to execute to my own satisfaction . 
` Not but it is a great pity , ' added she , aside , ` that you are such a rake , Mr. Trevor . ' 
His lordship would therefore perhaps be glad to hear that Mr. Trevor had particularly devoted himself to polemics , was intimately acquainted with the writings of the fathers and the known orthodox divines , and was qualified to be a powerful advocate and champion of conformity . 
Have you written any thing , Mr. Trevor , on these subjects ? ' 
-- ` By all means , Mr. Trevor ! 
Turl paused for a moment , and then replied : ` I would most willingly , Mr. Trevor , comply with your desire , were I not convinced of its absolute inutility . 
` Christians , Mr. Trevor , ' answered he , ` are so different from each other , that what the act of a Christian may be is more than I know : but , if I may speak as a philosopher , it is an immoral act to waste time in doing any one thing , if there can be any other done that will contribute more to the public good . ' 
-- ` No , Mr. Trevor : but , I repeat , I have examined the question ; and whenever the public good shall make it my duty , am willing to examine it again . 
His lordship soon made his appearance ; and , having first paid his obedience to the dean , he took the lady by the hand , and presenting her to me said -- ` This , Mr. Trevor , is my niece ; who I dare say will be glad to be acquainted with you . ' 
` You do n't eat , Mr. Trevor ! ' 
` You do n't eat , Mr. Trevor ! ' 
Mr. Trevor ! 
` Try , Liddy , if you can entertain Mr. Trevor : we will stay by our bottle . ' 
Perhaps , Mr. Trevor , you never heard the story of my first appearing in my canonicals ? 
His lordship then began the story again . 
He had not a single circumstance to add ; yet he would not be stopped in his career by my assuring him that I had heard the whole . 
His lordship and the dean then began a discourse concerning the clubs , of which they were both members ; with inquiries after and annotations on prebends , archdeacons , and doctors , that had the honour to gluttonize together on these occasions . 
` Yes , ' said his lordship ; ` your defence is very well written , Mr. Trevor ; and I have something to say to you about that matter . 
If you will be with me to-morrow morning at ten o'clock , Mr. Trevor , we 'll talk the thing over . ' 
I then bade the lady and his lordship good night , and returned to Bruton-street , with my brain swimming with cogitations concerning bishops , nieces , deans , articles , sound divines , the church , the sons of the church , sensuality , obscenity , and innumerable associating but discordant ideas , that bred a strange confusion and darkness of intellect . 
` I assure you , Mr. Trevor , ' said he , ` she thinks very well of you ! ' 
You are a likely young man , Mr. Trevor ; and may be a promising young man . 
He continued -- ` You have been to Oxford , Mr. Trevor , and you have studied . 
I was at Oxford , and I studied , and read Greek , and the fathers , and the schoolmen , and other matters : but all that there wo n't do alone , Mr. Trevor . 
We have all of us a right to look forward ; and so I would have you look forward , Mr. Trevor . 
More and more impatient , I answered his lordship , I would be as prudent as I could ; and again requested he would explain himself . 
` Why yes , Mr. Trevor ; that is what I mean . 
-- ` Nay , Mr. Trevor , you write very prettily . 
That is a main point of prudence , Mr. Trevor ; never disoblige your superiors . 
I will be one of them ; and I will recommend you , Mr. Trevor , and introduce you , and every thing may be to the satisfaction of all parties . ' 
-- ` A work , Mr. Trevor , would not sell the worse , or be less read , or less famous , for having a dignified name in the title-page . ' 
I thought you had been a prudent young man , Mr. Trevor ! 
` I hinted to you , Mr. Trevor , ' said he , ` that I should probably have something agreeable soon to communicate ! ' 
His words gave certainty to expectation ! 
-- ` Certainly , Mr. Trevor ; certainly . 
-- ` By no means , Mr. Trevor ! 
A good casuist you know , Mr. Trevor , can defend both sides of a question ; and I have no doubt but that you will appear with as much brilliancy , as a panegyrist , as you have done , as a satirist . ' 
-- ` Mr. Trevor , I find you are a young man : you do not know the world ' -- The scene with the bishop was acting over again , and I felt myself bursting once more with indignation . 
With ineffable contempt in every feature of my face , I answered -- ` If a knowledge of the world consists in servility , selfishness , and the practice of deceit , I hope I never shall know it ' -- ` You strangely forget yourself , Mr. Trevor ! ' 
` Why , Mr. Trevor ! 
` Ay , ' added Miss ; ` what did that mean , Mr. Trevor ? ' 
-- ` Pray speak , Mr. Trevor . 
My heart was full , my passions , like the arrow in the bent bow , were with force restrained , and I snatched his hand and pressed it with great fervour . 
He then said -- ` Mr. Trevor , you are already acquainted with the plainness , and what you perhaps have thought the bluntness , of my character . 
` I can make no answer to such an accusation , Mr. Trevor , except that I must speak and think as that understanding directs me . 
I repeat , you may be better employed , Mr. Trevor . ' 
Mr. Trevor ! 
So said my mamma well but , Eliza , have you any reason to think that Mr. Trevor has any notions of marriage ? 
So I boldly answered yes , I had ; for you know , Mr. Trevor , what passed between us at the play-house , and the kind squeeze of the hand you gave me at parting with me : and so why should I be afraid to speak , and tell the truth ? 
` Well Eliza , ' said the matron , ` have you and Mr. Trevor been talking ? 
I have told it all over to him just now , every syllable the same as I told it to you , and he does not contradict a word of it . ' 
Mr. Trevor ! ' 
-- ` Why will you pretend to deny , Mr. Trevor , that all that I have been rehearsing here , about the play-house ; and about the kindness with which you paid your addresses to me there , and indeed elsewhere , often and before time ; and about your leading me to the chair ; and then your tenderly taking my hand and squeezing it ; and then the look you gave with your eyes ; and more than all the loving manner in which you said good night ? 
You are not such a deceiver as that comes to I am sure , Mr. Trevor : you have a more generous and noble heart ! ' 
Here Miss burst into a flood of tears , and mamma exclaimed -- ` I am very much afraid , Mr. Trevor , there have been some improper doings ! ' 
And after the true friend that I have been to you , Mr. Trevor ! 
Oh shame , Mr. Trevor ! 
` Exactly so , Mr. Trevor , ' said the president , with a formal dismissing inclination of the head ; and so we parted . 
In an instant , her sympathetic feelings caught the infection : she feebly pronounced , ` I am glad to see you , Mr. Trevor ! ' 
` You came upon me so suddenly , Mr. Trevor ! 
Sister and he will match best . 
He will tell her what is Greek for a gauze cap , and she will teach him how to make it up . 
She saw me and called ` Mr. Trevor ! ' 
I am personally concerned , and you have asked my opinion ; otherwise , Mr. Trevor , I should have been cautious of giving it . ' 
She perceived the effect she had produced , and in a soft and relenting tone added -- ` I do not seek to wound your feelings , Mr. Trevor . 
-- She paused for a moment and replied -- ` The incidents of to-day , Mr. Trevor , have but confirmed the character which was long since given me of you , and which I began to hope was not strictly true . 
Were I your sister , Mr. Trevor , I should be in continual alarms , and the most unhappy creature existing . ' 
Give me leave to introduce you to Mr. Trevor , a friend of mine ; a gentleman and a scholar ; just come from Oxford . 
But that perhaps is a phrase you do not understand , Mr. Trevor ? 
` I beg pardon , Sir , ' said she , ` for my boldness , but your name I believe is Mr. Trevor ? ' 
` Go , Mary , ' said I , ` and tell Miss Wilmot that Mr. Trevor presents his compliments to her , and will be glad to speak to her the moment she is at leisure . ' 
` And now , Mr. Trevor , I am coming to events in which you , without any knowledge or interference of your own , may be said to be a partaker . ' 
` If you feel sorrow , Mr. Trevor , what must my feelings be ? 
` The kind part you take in my affliction , Mr. Trevor , affords me greater relief than any that perhaps I have felt for years . 
` You must not wonder , Mr. Trevor , that I do not tell my story in a connected manner . 
He began with caution , but when he had accustomed me to such discourse , and after I had heard it repeated even in the presence of his clerical companions , of which you , Mr. Trevor , were once a witness , my surprize wore away ; the pain it gave me was diminished , and he became less and less reserved . 
` Still however he did not venture openly to declare himself ; and Mr. Wakefield was too busy , in wasting your mother 's fortune and gratifying his own desires , to attend to those of the bishop . 
At last he wrote once again , informing me that you , Mr. Trevor , were come to London ; characterizing you as ignorant of the world and easily deceived ; telling me that you were intimate with the bishop ; and advising me to promote a plan of marriage between us , which he had proposed to the prelate as the best way , in his own phrase , of making all things smooth ! 
Mr. Trevor , what a world is this ! 
Had he offered me money , I should have rejected it with disdain ! 
but he had not even that much charity . 
He replied , ` you , Mr. Trevor , are well acquainted with my answer : `` Socrates is my friend , Plato is my friend , but truth is more my friend . '' 
This subject ended , he made some kind and cordial inquiries concerning my present pursuits , and these furnished the opportunity of unburthening my heart . 
I related to him , with all the indignation which resentment inspired , my whole history ; and ended with informing him of my determination to publish the vice and infamy of all the parties to the world . 
` For my own part , Mr. Trevor , I am at present under a cloud . 
That is my study , Mr. Trevor . 
But can you tell me why players , by following their profession , act in some places contrary to all law , and are called strollers , vagabonds , and vagrants , and in others are protected by the law , and dignified with the high and mighty title of his Majesty 's Servants ? ' 
He continued : ` Mark my words ; the day will come , Mr. Trevor , when you will discover that there are greater jugglers in the world than your players , wonderful as their art of transformation is . 
The world is all a cheat ; its pleasures are for him who is most expert in legerdemain and cajolery ; and he is a fool indeed who is juggled out of his share of them . 
He then turned the conversation to me , and what had happened during my visit in the country . 
` You have this ingenuity yourself , Mr. Trevor ; talents which you have exerted , in your own way . 
I was silent , and after a moment 's pause he added -- ` Come , come ! 
The pleasantness of his humour , and the manner in which he had gained upon me , were sufficient to insure him a compliance with this request . 
I had the money in my pocket , gave it him , and we bade each other adieu ; with a promise on his part that ` he would soon be in town again , new moulted and full of feather . ' 
I must not omit to notice that , having had occasion to hint at Miss Wilmot , in the story I had told him , but without mentioning her name , which he never indeed seemed desirous to know , he put many questions relating to her . 
He inquired too concerning her brother ; and , though he gave no tokens of deep passion , was evidently interested in the whole narrative . 
His queries extended even to the bishop , and the earl ; and he discovered a great desire to be minutely informed of all that related to me . 
His interrogatories were answered without reserve , for I understood them as tokens of friendship . 
In less than a fortnight , I met him again , at the usual place : for he had always been averse to visit me at my lodgings . 
This I had attributed to motives of vanity ; for example , his not having apartments perhaps , such as he wished , to invite me to in return . 
His appearance , the moment I saw him , spoke his success . 
His dress was much improved , he sported his money freely , and being engaged at play more than once betted ten pounds upon the hazard . 
He was successful in his match , in high spirits , welcomed me heartily , and was full of those flights in which his vigorous imagination was so happy . 
` Life , ' said he , ` Trevor , ' putting on his coat after he had done play , ` life is a game at calculation ; and he that plays the best of it is the cleverest fellow . 
For , said she , my good Mary , for she often calls me good , which I be very sure is her kindness and not my desarts , my good Mary , said she , I do n't wonder that you do love Mr. Trevor for having a saved your life . 
He once saved my life ; which , says she , I shall remember the longest day I have to breathe : and -- ' ` It is she ! ' 
He it was who borrowed the ten guineas from me , by the aid of which he robbed me of five hundred ; and then returned to observe how I endured the goad , laugh at my restive antics , and revel in the plunder which he had purloined with so much facility from foolish Trevor , and his still more foolish mother ! 
But this was not the only trick he had to play me . 
Secure in the resources of an invention that might have been occupied in pursuits worthy of his powers , his perverted philosophy taught him to employ these resources only for the gratification of passions which he thought it folly to control , and to exult over men whose sordid selfishness he despised , and whose limited cunning was the subject of his derision . 
He professed himself the disciple of La Rochefoucault and Mandeville , and his practice did not belie his principles . 
From the tenor of his discourse , I am persuaded that , had he found me apt at adopting his maxims , he would have unbosomed himself freely , have initiated me in his own arts , and , by making me the associate of his projects , have induced me to look back on the past rather with merriment than anger . 
As it was , he reserved himself to act with me as with the rest of mankind ; to watch circumstances , and turn them to his own purposes whenever opportunity should offer . 
Trevor , ' replied he , with a glance of half contemptuous pity , ` you are yet young : you are but at the beginning of your troubles . 
` The narrative given by my sister , which you , Mr. Trevor , have already repeated , precludes the necessity of any detail concerning my origin . 
I therefore worked and starved till they were all discharged : after which I returned to the country , and became usher at the school where I first knew you , Mr. Trevor . 
` If I do not mistake , you , Mr. Trevor , are hurrying into the very errors that have misled your noble minded friend and instructor . 
` Do you consider the danger , the possible consequences , of the doctrine you are now inculcating , Mr. Trevor ? ' 
Too much devoured by passion to attend to his reproof , in the sense he meant it , I retorted in a still louder key . 
` You should rather say , Mr. Trevor , you are pushing your want of philosophy to an extreme . 
` Disprove the facts , Mr. Trevor . 
` I therefore once more warn you , Mr. Trevor , that law is a pernicious mass of errors ; and that the practitioners of it can only thrive by the mischiefs which they themselves produce , the falsehoods they propagate , and the miseries they inflict ! ' 
-- ` It is Mr. Trevor , Madam ; the grandson of the rector of -- . ' 
` I have heard a great deal about your family , Mr. Trevor ; and of the ridiculous opposition which your grandfather pretended to make to my late brother , Mowbray . 
Many families , of much greater consequence than ever yours was , Mr. Trevor , have been brought low by such foolish and wicked doings . 
The aunt fixed her eye on me , ` Look you , ' said she , ` Mr. Trevor , you are a handsome young fellow , and I do not want handsome young fellows about my niece . 
I was further informed that a sealed paper , addressed to Mr. Trevor , had been received , and opened in the presence of the physician , containing another twenty-pound bank-bill ; but the paper that inclosed it was blank : and that Clarke , unable to go immediately to work , and reflecting on what he had heard from me concerning the destitute state in which I , a stranger in Bath , was left by the robbery of my servant , had walked out the next day , had come with fear and diffidence to enquire after me , and that , finding me in a high fever , his wife had been my first nurse . 
`` I did not think , Mr. Trevor , you could have believed me to be such a base villain . '' 
`` I am a man , Mr. Trevor , engaged in a trust which I find it very difficult conscientiously to discharge . 
`` Well , Mr. Trevor , you will own at least that , since I can talk with all this seeming wisdom , a small share of the practice will be becoming in me ; and what you and all mankind would expect . '' 
I hesitated , Hector turned upon us , we were approaching the light , and , with a suddenness which fear and passion inspired , knowing that Mowbray did not understand Italian , I said in an under voice -- '' Il Signor Hugo Trevor non é morto , bellissima Signora ; Mr. Trevor is not dead , dearest lady '' -- At the same instant I snatched her hand , pressed it , was about to raise it to my lips , but recollecting myself , turned short round , and added , `` Addio ! '' 
But , when we were seated in a room with lights , and my mind was no longer diverted by other objects , the reveries into which I fell , the interjections that broke from me , the hasty and interrupted manner in which I ate and drank , the expressions of extreme joy which altered my countenance at one moment , and the solemn seriousness which it assumed the next , with my eyes fixed , while the tears rolled down my cheeks , at last so agitated poor Clarke that he exclaimed -- `` For God 's sake , Mr. Trevor , what is the matter with you ? '' 
Rudge , whose temper was more placid but who had an enquiring mind , said , `` You do not know my friend Trottman yet , Mr. Trevor . 
He cares but little who has the most reason , so that he may have the most laughter . '' 
`` But this practice , you must know ; '' said Trottman , with a wink to Stradling , `` Mr. Trevor means to reform . '' 
Mr. Trevor , you are a young man ! 
`` Excuse me , Mr. Trevor , for not too hastily crediting hasty assertions . 
thundered Stradling : and , after a pause , added -- '' It is my opinion , those words are liable to a prosecution , Mr. Trevor ; and , by G -- , if you were to be cast in any one of our Courts for them , it would be no fault either of the bench or the bar if the sentence of the law , which you are defaming , did not shut you up for life ! '' 
`` My friend Trevor mistakes the nature of the profession he is studying , '' added Trottman . 
`` He forgets that the question before a Court is not , what is this , that , or the other ; which he may think proper to call justice ; but , what is the law ? '' 
`` How you stare , Mr. Trevor ! '' 
Why , Mr. Trevor , you imagine yourself in Turkey , telling your tale to a Cady , who decides according to his notions of right and wrong ; and not pleading in the presence of a bench of English judges , who have twice ten thousand volumes to consult as their guides which leave them no opinion of their own . 
Just as he repeated the last sentence , '' 'T is folly to despond , '' so full a rememberance of his former trains of thought came over him , and there was so divine a mixture of hope and melancholy in his face , which seemed so to reproach himself and to encourage me , that , divided as my feelings were between the generous emanations of Turl and these torrents of affection from a man who had suffered so deeply , I seized the hand of each , pressed them both to my heart , instantly dropped them again , covered my face , fell against the wall , and sobbed with something like hysteric passion . 
`` Nay , but Mr. Trevor delivers his sentiments with rather an unguarded freedom , and with peculiar energy , or indeed he would be ill qualified to rise in the assembly of which I wish to see him a member , and undauntedly oppose the arrogant assertions that are there daily made . '' 
`` Bless me , '' said she , `` Mr. Trevor ! 
`` I congratulate you , Mr. Trevor , '' said he , with a momentary gravity , `` on your noble and moral pursuits ! 
I found Miss Wilmot alone ; and her first words were -- `` Oh , Mr. Trevor ! 
Have you lately seen Mr. Trevor ? ' 
` I never fail to see him every day . 
I have a letter from him , for you ; which he has disdained to take any clandestine means of conveying to you . 
` Before I dare think about his letter , answer me one question . 
Is he a murderer ? ' 
He almost adores Mr. Trevor . ' 
I wish you knew all I could tell you about Mr. Trevor : but it is quite unpossible that I should remember it one half . 
` You appear to know of a battle , that Mr. Trevor fought ? ' 
Though the hot-headed fools and rabble , that got hold of me , did use me ill enough , I must say : for which I was so angry with Mr. Trevor ; and it was therefore that Old Nick put it into my head that I would beat him . 
` And is there no truth whatever in the story that two men were killed , by the ungovernable passion and malice of Mr. Trevor ? ' 
` Killed by Mr. Trevor , madam ! 
He is not that sort of man . 
He would rather be killed himself than be the death of any christian soul : ` specially if he was a poor body . 
I can say that for him . 
Why he fought like a mad man , to save me from the mob ; when they were hustling me , and dragging me along . 
But , while one part of them gathered round him , the other had got far enough off with me . 
It being all a mistake about a handkerchief : which he told them . 
And , though I heard him and saw him beat about just as if he had been a lion to save me , I could not forget how I had been used , when I met him the next day . 
which I do believe he will , for Mr. Trevor has shewn him the example . 
I only mean that , though Mr. Trevor is a good gentleman , the Lord of heaven must be a better ; and even more charitable and melting in his heart . 
Because there was the sham-Abraham friends of Mr. Trevor : one of which kicked him , when he was down ! ' 
And then after he had done this cowardly trick , why he durst not stand up to Mr. Trevor , like a man . 
For if there be a gentleman on the face of the earth that loves a lady to desperation , why , Mr. Trevor is he ; as you would have been satisfied , if you had set by his bedside when as he was down in the fever ; like as I and my Sally did ; and had heard him rave of nobody but you . 
And then if you had seen him too the night after he took you out of the coach ! 
Which , as he said , seeing it was parting with you , was worse than tearing his heart out of his body ! 
But he was so afraid of doing you harm ! 
For he would suffer death rather than anger you . 
So that , while I have breath to draw , I shall never forget , when we came to the inn , how he looked ! 
and while his face was as set as stone , the tears kept trickling down his cheeks ! 
For which , as he knows you to be so good a lady , I am sure you must see all these particulars just in the same light . ' 
And as for saving your lives , I was as willing I own as another : but I was not half so quick in thought as Mr. Trevor . 
Because , as the coachman said , if he had not catched hold of the horses in that very instant nick of the moment , it would have been all over ! 
`` Here he instantly left the room : by which he intended to shew that he was determined . 
And how melting , how overflowing with affection , the heart of woman is , Mr. Trevor , I think you know . 
I almost hate myself , for the injustice which I , as well as others , have done Mr. Trevor -- I , who had heard from his lips a thousand sentiments that ought to have assured me of the generous and elevated virtues by which his actions were directed ! 
He has twice saved my life ; and yet , because on some occasions he has happened to act differently from what I have supposed he ought to have acted , I have taken upon me to treat him with coldness that was affected , with reproof when I owed him thanks , and with rudeness such as I supposed became my sex . 
` For me he has risked his life again and again , without hesitation : while I have sat in timid silence , and countenanced calumnies which it was impossible I could believe ; though I seem as if I had endeavoured to believe them , from the disgrace which I knew would justly light on me , should these calumnies prove false . 
False I could not but think them , false they have proved , and I am unworthy of him . 
I have presumed upon the prejudices which I knew would protect me , in the opinions of the foolish , and gain me their applause , and have treated him with a haughtiness which he ought to despise . 
Has he deserved it ? 
Has he been guilty of one mean or seductive art , that might induce me to betray a duty , and gratify him at the expence of myself and others ? 
Has he entered into that base warfare of the sexes by which each in turn endeavours to deceive ? ' 
`` I presented the letter , and replied , Mr. Trevor instructed me to tell you , when I delivered it , that it contains nothing which he wishes you to conceal , should you think fit to shew it ; that it does not invite you to any improper correspondence ; and that it is the only one which , under his present circumstances , he means to obtrude upon you . ' 
`` Evidently overcome by the generous rectitude of your conduct , and more dissatisfied with her own , she broke the seal and began to read . 
She hurried it once over with great eagerness , and trepidation . 
She then paused ; debating whether she should unburthen her mind immediately of a crowd of thoughts : but , finding they crossed and disturbed each other , she began again and read aloud ; interrupting herself by remarks , as she proceeded . 
` My reproof and anger ' -- Yes , yes , I have taught him to treat me like a Sultana . 
He punishes me justly without intending it . 
` You have supposed me dead ' -- `` Here , addressing herself to me , she added -- ` It was his servant , Philip , who being hired by a gentleman that came to Scarborough brought us this false intelligence . 
His story was that he saw Mr. Trevor 's distraction , on the morning after he had lost his money at a gaming-table ; to which rashness as it should seem he was driven by despair ; that Mr. Trevor ran into the fields , in a fit of frenzy , and threw himself into the Avon : that he , Philip , who had followed as fast as he could , hastened to the place but never saw him more ; and that consequently and beyond all doubt he was there drowned . 
` Yet this accounts in part for his running away : which he did that very night after I suppose he had discovered it was Mr. Trevor , at Cranford-bridge ; and I have never seen or heard of him since . 
` I am persuaded he thought Mr. Trevor dead : for , after I had heard my brother 's account of the battle , I thought the time and the circumstances contradictory , and repeatedly questioned Philip ; who persisted in declaring he saw Mr. Trevor jump into the river and drown himself . 
And , as I say , the flight of Philip from Cranford-bridge persuades me that he actually had believed Mr. Trevor dead . 
` I am sorry the poor fellow has done this wrong thing , and been frightened away : for I never before heard a servant speak with so much warmth and affection of a master , as he did of Mr. Trevor . ' 
`` She replied , ` I was last night at the opera ; where I saw Mr. Trevor , with Lady Bray . 
Having so lately met with him under circumstances so different , and apparently disadvantageous , you may imagine that the joy I felt and the hope I conceived were not trifling . '' 
` My aunt saw him , likewise : but , as she was not so familiar with his person as to have no doubt , she first watched and then questioned me : though , as she upbraidingly told me , she needed only to have enquired of my looks . 
` When she was told that the gentleman , of whom she had been speaking with so much warmth , had a peculiar motive for being silent , and that this gentleman was no other than Mr. Trevor , she was very much moved . 
The recollection of the manner in which she had been treating his character , and of the alacrity with which he had afterward saved her life , was exceedingly strong ; and far from unmixed with pain . 
Before she was aware of herself , she exclaimed , This Mr. Trevor is a very extraordinary young man ! 
` Unfortunately for Mr. Trevor , our servant , Philip , had absconded ; and a train of suspicions immediately arose in her mind . 
` In this supposition she confirmed herself by every possible surmise : each and all resting upon the assumed league between Philip and Mr. Trevor . 
` I vainly urged that the sudden disappearing of both entirely contradicted such a conjecture ; that Mr. Trevor , if he were capable of an action like this , must be as wicked as he was mad ; and that I had every reason to believe him a man of the most generous and elevated principles . 
` But , that I might do every thing in my power to prove that one part of her surmises was false , I determined cautiously to avoid , for the present , seeing or even hearing any thing concerning Mr. Trevor . 
I debated on the propriety of listening to the daily defamation of Mr. Trevor , when there were so many presumptive facts in his favour , and not endeavouring to prove that it was false ; and I accused my conduct of apparent hypocrisy : of assuming a calm unconcern which my heart belied . 
` The sight of him at the Opera renewed my self-reproaches , in full force ; and , likewise , fortunately awakened my aunt 's curiosity . 
` Accordingly , one of our morning visits , to day , has been to a friend of Lady Bray 's ; and there we learned that Mr. Trevor had been introduced , by Sir Barnard , to his lady and their common friends ; as a young gentleman coming into parliament , and supposed to be possessed of extraordinary talents . 
` This I find by his letter is untrue ; and there still appears to be some mystery which perhaps , as you see him so often , you may be able to unravel . ' 
a heart to match your own , Mr. Trevor . 
How it delights my heart that Mr. Trevor accords with me in opinion , and advises me to that open sincerity after which I have long been struggling , and which I am at length resolved to adopt ! 
I will tell her where I have been , shew her this letter , repeat every thing I have heard , and add my fixed purpose not to admit the addresses of any man on earth ; till my family shall authorise those of Mr. Trevor . 
` Tell Mr. Trevor that my heart is overwhelmed by the sense it feels of his generous and noble conduct ; that it exults in his manly forbearance , which so cautiously guards my rectitude rather than his own gratification ; that I will obey his injunction , and that we will have no clandestine correspondence ; but that our souls shall commune : they shall daily sympathise , and mutually excite us to that perseverance in fidelity and virtue which will be their own reward , and the consolation and joy of our lives . 
` If my aunt , my brother , or any of their acquaintance , should again calumniate Mr. Trevor , I will forewarn them of my further determination to inform him , and enquire into the facts . 
` Of misinterpretation from Mr. Trevor I am in no fear . 
But different indeed has been the lesson I have learned from Mr. Trevor . 
What a god-like morality has he adopted ! 
` But Mr. Trevor 's friends are all of this uncommon stamp ; and I own that to look into futurity , and to suppose myself excluded by prejudice and pride from the enjoyment of such society , is perhaps the most painful idea that can afflict the mind . 
I am almost afraid of owning even to you , my kind and sympathising friend , the torrent of emotions I feel at the thought of the pure pleasures I hope for hereafter ; from a life spent with a partner like Mr. Trevor , heightened by the intercourse of the generous , benevolent , and strong-minded men who share his heart . ' 
It instantly provokes the offended person to enquire -- ` What kind of being is it , that takes upon him to brave , insult , and despise me ? 
Has he more strength , more activity , more understanding than myself ? ' 
In numerous instances , he is imbecile in body , more imbecile still in mind , and contemptible in person . 
Nay he is often little better than a driveller . 
He , whom the hauteur of fashion has compelled to reason thus , will soon be led to further and more serious inferences . 
`` You , Mr. Trevor ! 
`` I wrote certain letters that were printed in the -- '' `` What , Mr. Trevor ! 
Addressing himself to me , with a simper that anticipated the pain he intended to give , he said -- `` Do you know , Mr. Trevor , that your friend the bishop of -- is to dine with us ? 
His lordship however eased me of farther trouble on this head , by asking the bishop -- `` Have you forgotten your old acquaintance Mr. Trevor , my lord ? '' 
The president ; however , hearing this , thought proper to bow : though very slightly , till the earl added , with a significant emphasis on the two last words -- `` Sir Barnard is become Mr. Trevor 's particular friend , '' which was no sooner pronounced than the countenances of both the bishop 's supporters changed , to something which might be called exceedingly civil , in the tutor , and prodigiously condescending , in the president . 
`` I approve that sentiment very much , Mr. Trevor , '' interrupted Enoch . 
`` To be sure it would , Mr. Trevor ! '' 
Here Glibly , attentive to the plan he had pursued , began by informing Mr. Quisque , the lawyer , that he had come at the request of his dear friend , Trevor , to entreat his aid in an affair of some moment . 
`` Mr. Trevor is a yong gentleman , my dear Quisque , that you will be proud to be acquainted with ; a man of talents ; a poet ; an orator ; an author ; a great genius ; an excellent scholar ; a fine writer ; turns a sentence or a rhyme with exquisite neatness ; very prettily I assure you . 
The barren-pated Ellis caught one of the favourite diminutives of Glibly ; and finished my panegyric by adding that , `` he must say , his friend , Mr. Trevor , was a prodigious pretty genius . '' 
Glibly returned to the business in hand ; and again repeated that he was come at the request of his dear friend , Trevor , to procure an injunction : that should prevent the publication of a pamphlet , which had been written against his friend , Idford . '' 
He that wantonly attacks the characters of others does but strike at his own . '' 
After waiting some time without any reply from me , he added `` Let us suppose , Mr. Trevor , a whimsical , or if you please a strange , coincidence between the man with whom you have been so angry and myself . 
`` If , Mr. Trevor , you are the man of that eminent virtue which I have sometimes thought you , and to which by your discourse to me you have certainly made very lofty pretensions , I would advise you to reflect on what I shall once more state . 
She no sooner saw me than she exclaimed -- `` I am very glad you are come , Mr. Trevor ! 
`` You are intimate with Mr. Trevor , You know that his mother , my late wife , is dead ; and you have heard of a will , said to have been left by my uncle . 
On the contrary , I write this letter purposely that you may shew it to Mr. Trevor . 
`` By certain whimsical accidents , I have become acquainted with Mr. Trevor 's principles . 
I believe , or I rather know , him to be possessed of a heart and understanding equally excellent . 
When he shall read this , he will have had a conversation relating to me ; which may have led him to expect the language I am about to use . 
In an argument concerning property he can not forget that he lately delivered himself thus : ` If I strictly adhere to the principle of justice , I must not singly consider my own wishes ; which may create innumerable false wants , and crave to have them gratified . 
`` Supposing Mr. Trevor to be convinced that the law will decide the property contested in his favour , the sacrifice demanded of him is perhaps too great to be expected from any man . 
A momentary wildness , such as I had formerly witnessed , flashed in her eyes ; she started from her seat , griped my hand , then bursting into tears exclaimed -- `` Oh Mr. Trevor ! '' 
I am the young man that lived with my honoured master Mr. Trevor ; in the same house , madam , that you are pleased to live . 
But I had no more thought that Mr. Trevor was living than the child unborn : which since I discovered I have never been at rest ; being out of place , and having nobody now to ask for a character , which is the greatest misfortin that can behappen a poor servant that never was guilty of such an action as breaking open his master 's box , and running away with his money and things , in all my life before , or since . 
So that I was tempted to lift for a soldier ; but that I happened , honoured madam , to meet your maid Mary , and she persuaded me to write to Mr. Trevor : which I durst not do , though I know his goodness . 
So she said your honoured ladyship would be so kind and tender hearted as to lay my case before Mr. Trevor , and my dear and honoured mistress , Miss Mowbray , both of which I would run to the world 's end to serve . 
`` Accused of what , Mr. Trevor ? '' 
`` And were you not influenced by me , Mr. Trevor ? '' 
`` Do you mean , Mr. Trevor , that your heart condemns me ? '' 
`` Then you pretend to set up for yourself , Mr. Trevor ; and to have no deference whatever for me , and my opinions . '' 
`` Very well , Mr. Trevor . 
`` Very well , Mr. Trevor . 
`` No , Mr. Trevor . 
I shall give no explanations , till I am sure I am talking to my friend : my fast friend , Mr. Trevor : that will think and act with me . 
`` If by thinking and acting together , Sir Barnard , you mean that you expect I should blindly and implicitly conform to any tergiversation -- I mean to any change -- '' `` You need explain yourself no farther , Mr. Trevor . 
My friend is my friend , Mr. Trevor ; and he is no other man 's friend , Mr. Trevor . 
`` Nay , nay , Mr. Trevor , I want no quarrelling . '' 
`` I hope I do , Mr. Trevor . 
`` You must excuse me , Mr. Trevor . 
Good morning to you , Mr. Trevor . '' 
After which , you know , all will be safe , Matthew ; and they can never harm Mr. Trevor . 
You love Mr. Trevor , Matthew : do not you ? '' 
Because Mr. Trevor is in the country . 
For I think I shall die ; and he will then have no friend on earth to secure him the poll . '' 
But still he kept raving about the parchment ; and his cousin , Sir Barnard ; and you , Mr. Trevor : all which the Doctor said we must not heed , because he did not know what he said . 
Clarke was asked to partake ; but answered with a `` no thank you , Mr. Trevor . '' 
He had a more refined and feeling motive : for , when I pressed him very earnestly , he replied -- `` At another time , Mr. Trevor , such a favour would make me happy ; and you know I have not refused : but , just now , why it would look as if , because you are under misfortunes , I might take liberties . '' 
In one part of his argument , Mr. Trevor is undoubtedly right . 
If he can relieve himself , by his abilities and industry , which he is persuaded he can , it is his duty . 
For it will not only increase his immediate happiness , but it will give confidence to his efforts , and strength to his mind : qualities that are inestimable . 
If Mr. Trevor can be rendered most happy and useful by accepting your offer , it will then be just in him to cede . 
but remember once more we are friends , that know each other 's worth ; and it will be just that I should partake in his release . 
Having agreed to follow their advice , Wilmot and Turl left me ; with a promise to return early in the evening : but poor Clarke said `` he had no heart for work that day ; and he could not abide to leave me shut up by myself . 
He saw plainly enough I had true friends ; such as would never forsake me : and no more would he , though he could do me no good . '' 
`` In what temper of mind was he ? '' 
Mr. Trevor ! 
