Itwas getting toward `` the small hours '' of a summer 's night in 1830 , when Paul Fane tapped at the closely shuttered window of the house which had always been his home . 
The admitted moonlight shone for a moment upon the placid features of the mother , and , as the door closed again , and left the unlighted staircase in darkness , Paul passed on without speaking ; for their customary good-night was a half hour or more in his far-up study in the attic -- where their voices would be unheard , and where the son 's history of his day , and the mother 's tender sympathy and counsel , could be freely exchanged . 
The small room in the attic story , with its one gable window to the north , had , for years , been allowed to Paul for his nominal study ; and , as it contained no bed , and there was no excuse for intrusion of servant or other person , it was reasonable for him to keep the key , and preserve it sacred to the sole use and knowledge of his mother and himself . 
Paul had an unconquerable passion for Art , and his every leisure hour was spent in the endeavor to make skill of hand keep pace with his maturing taste and knowledge ; and the necessity to conceal this , was in the complete disapproval , by his father , of `` any such unprofitable mode of life '' -- a disapproval he had expressed so harshly , at the first efforts of the boy 's pencil , that it was evidently a choice between concealment and an open opposition , of which the mother well knew the consequences . 
The lamp was arranged with its shade , for the hour or two of reading which it helped to borrow from the night , and Paul , closing the door and receiving then his mother 's kiss of welcome , sat down to his confessional of love . 
With her hand clasped in his , he made the tender inquiries as to her own passing of the time , her spirits for the evening , her visitors and her books , and then went on to tell her of his engagements for the day , its occurrences , etc. . 
He had come last from a gay party at the Cleverlys , given to some strangers who had brought letters to them as bankers ; and of these and of his acquaintances who were present , he gave sketches with his usual graphic power , and of the festivities and what he had seen ludicrous or beautiful . 
The town clock struck one , as he came to a pause in his descriptions ; and his startled mother , rising and taking his forehead between her hands , impressed a good-night kiss upon it , with a murmured `` God bless you , '' reminded him of his need of rest , and passed out at the noiselessly opened door . 
TheCleverlys ' was the house , on his visiting list , where Paul was most at home . 
An introduction to the strangers for whom the party had been made , that evening , and of the cordial kind which would ensure full attention , would be a matter of course ; and it was with curiosity on the alert and his best manners in readiness , that Paul walked through the rooms with his friend 's mother leaning on his arm , and awaited the opportunity to be presented . 
She was of slight and graceful figure , rather tall , and , except that she was particularly quiet and deliberate in her movements -- walking and looking , indeed , as if she felt entirely alone in the room -- Paul saw nothing to distinguish her , at the first glance . 
she said , approaching her , and phrasing her introduction with a demolition of ceremony at which she was usually very successful , `` this young gentleman -LRB- allow me to present him to you -- Mr. Fane -RRB- , is our walking dictionary of beautiful things , and will tell you the names of any flowers you may not recognise . '' 
`` Will you excuse me , '' continued Mrs. Cleverly , `` if I commission him to do the honors of my conservatory , while I look up some music for my other guests ? 
Paul ! 
And , with this groundwork of conversation provided , left quite alone with the fair stranger , his presentment flattering , and the surroundings particularly inspiring and beautiful , Paul 's task of making himself agreeable seemed not very difficult . 
The transition from this to other topics was easy ; for Paul was , of course , at home , as to the associations around them , and the young lady was too thoroughly at home in her own self-possession to have an awkwardness , either from silence or abruptness , any way probable . 
She half turned to Paul , after a step toward her father , as if she had nearly forgotten even to take leave of her new acquaintance , thus ending an interview that was to change the whole current of life , for him , while , for her , it was but the touch of the swallow 's wing to the calm surface of the lake . 
The summons , by Mr. Ashly , was to some music in the reception-room , which was promised to be worth the hearing -- but Paul turned back into the conservatory , and , following the marble floor to the balcony at the end , stepped out into the moonlight . 
There was a new , strange feeling in his bosom , with which he wished to be alone . 
He began by shutting out , with a half-conscious resentment of thought , the accustomed softness of the summer night -- out of harmony , somehow , for once -- and then proceeded to call the last half hour rigidly to account . 
It was not her beauty ; he knew a hundred women more beautiful . 
Her features were even plain , as he came to recall them . 
Was there any especial grace or queenliness in her manner ? 
No ; she was quite inelegant , he thought , in the management of her hands ; and , with that forward bend of her neck and half neglectful indolence of gait , her impression upon most persons would be anything but imposing . 
The large grey eye -- it was fine , certainly , with its motionless cloud of dark uplifted lashes that seemed never to close , but -- Paul tightened his lips , and concentrated mind and memory on that feature of Miss Ashly 's . 
something had flashed upon his consciousness as that cold grey eye rested on his face -- a something that had never fallen on him from a human look before -- yet so evasive and unreal , though his whole soul was up in arms with it , that , with all his effort , he could neither define nor confront it . 
She had become a creature of intense interest to him , but it was no beginning , ever so remote , of a passion . 
There was more distaste than love in his sentiment towards her . 
Yet to know her better -- to understand that look , and find the plummet that would sound the depths to which it had reached -- this seemed now the troubled fever , before the sudden thirst of which all other feelings were inexplicably swept away . 
Unfitted for the gayety within , and unwilling to see any one with whom he must exchange indifferent words that night , Paul stepped from the balcony into the garden below , and without taking leave of his friends , made his way homeward . 
The usual happiness of a talk with his mother had a constraint in it for once , as has been already described ; but , that over , he turned his key , and , with the new thought that he must master before sleeping , he was glad to be alone . 
The daylight that looked in upon Paul 's sleepless eyes the next morning , however , brought with it , for him , a shape and semblance for his new thought , which , though he still wondered at its power . 
Itwas not without a slight heightening of color that Paul met the calm eye of Mary Evenden , that afternoon . 
She sat at the parsonage window , as usual , waiting his coming , and wiling the time with her drawing-book and pencil , and his first impulse -- her hand left so confidingly in his , while he seated himself at her side -- was to avow that he had something critical to confess , bespeaking , however , her kind suspension of judgment , till he could modify her inevitable first impression . 
He began with the utterance of her beautiful name -- hesitated -- stammered . 
he must turn his thought over , and present it differently . 
It was , somehow , difficult to find words in which what he had to say would seem worthy to follow after that sainted name -- Mary ! 
As he looked at her face again , it occurred to him that he was about to confess to at least a curiosity as to whether there might not be finer clay than she -- a thirst to know whether he had yet seen Nature 's best -- herself included in the misgiving disparagement of what he already knew . 
`` Get bonnet and shawl , and come out for a walk , '' he abruptly proposed , after a moment more of vain entanglement and hesitation , `` my thoughts are of this world , and you look so superfluously good in this religious little domicil -- come ! '' 
But there were drawings to put away , and it would be a minute or two before she would rejoin him at the garden gate , and so he had gained a breathing time to put his confused thoughts into order . 
Mary Evenden stood almost in the relation of a sister to young Fane ; for , by her own dying mother she had been committed to his , in her early childhood -- the invalid condition of her father 's health , making it probable at the time , that she would soon be an orphan . 
The separate roof which each child called a home , was , indeed , the only reminder that they were not children of the same mother , their amusements and studies having been mingled entirely , up to Paul 's departure for college ; and the return to intimacy in his vacations , and now that he was graduated , being as simply free and frank as if the tie of blood were between them . 
Paul had a favorite theory of two or more souls inhabiting one body , and it was mainly fed and strengthened by the perfectly single-hearted exclusiveness with which Mary Evenden maintained a recognition only of his inner nature -- a nature which , though he felt conscious it was his truer and stronger self , was not at all seen into by many who knew him otherwise well . 
To her and to his mother he was veritably one manner of man , and to his common acquaintances he was just as veritably another ; and the two , separately described , would hardly have been thought reconcilable . 
It was Paul 's riddle of human nature -- not that he was in any way contradictory or other than single-minded to himself ; but that , with daily conduct and manners as studiously truthful and natural as he could jealously and almost resentfully make them , he was to different eyes still so different . 
There was no denying , Paul confessed himself now , however , that the temptation to a first insincerity was very strong . 
He was trying the strength of the temptation with rather a wilful perversity , when Mary stepped from the low threshold of the parsonage . 
Why tell her of allthe motive he might have for an errand to foreign lands ? 
But another claim for his new problem seemed to present itself as he looked upon the form that came towards him . 
Paul had often tried in vain to define the artistic charm which there lay in Mary Evenden 's beauty . 
Its effect fell upon the eye only in surprises -- revealable , apparently , only to the after look , when common standards had been first put aside -- but of that beauty , it now seemed to him that he might reasonably wish to know the comparative rarity and value . 
The tempter had gone down into the unlighted corner of his heart for the apology that he needed ! 
More critically than ever before , he studied the air and movement of the unconscious girl during that moment of approach . 
It was the first trial of the new assay with which , he had now become aware , Nature 's coinage must be tested . 
The reading of the clear stamp on the face and form before him was easy . 
He knew it better than it could ever be learned by another eye . 
But there were standards of which his imagination was tremblingly foreshadowing the demands for beauty of noble presence . 
Easily as it flowed , it was communing of which Paul did not yet know the value . 
Her habitual happiness was to mirror his inner nature ; and their intercourse , long and well as they had known each other , was the exchange of thoughts and sympathies on ground only where he was earnest and gifted . 
With his genius strengthening and demanding , each day , more and more recognition and encouragement , her eagerness for exchange with the pure ore of his mind had wonderfully aided in melting out and coining it ; though , so ready and instinctive had been this rare and precious reciprocity , that each seemed to the other to be imparting that which was easiest and most natural . 
Nor was Paul aware , either , that , by the sufficing of Mary Evenden and his mother for these more sacred sympathies , he was insensibly keeping his inner nature for their loving and sharing only -- the more volatile and worldly qualities of his character being , by mere rotation of mood , the change of weapons and armor , with which he went out for his lighter skirmishings with the world . 
As Paul coaxed up his unwilling confession once more to the light , he forgot that he had looked at the matter only from his somewhat culprit point of view . 
To Mary , his proposition to go abroad -- particularly if he should withhold from her the new and more worldly motive which was now superadded to his purposes of Art -- would be but a leaning toward the bent of her own constant counsel . 
She had read with Paul , on these subjects till both their minds were artistic in taste and enthusiasm . 
Without his skill of hand ; and the fine intuition of form and color , which constituted his peculiarity of genius , she had done her best to discipline her judgment by assiduous practice in drawing , and she was , at least , an entire appreciator of what he did , and a charming encourager of his every effort and victory . 
said Mary , looking up with an inquiring smile , after a few minutes of silence , and thus reminding Paul of the something he had to say . 
His magnanimity sprang to the throne with a bound , at the liberal and confiding nobleness of that look and smile . 
How could he conceal from such a soul-mirror , the remotest impulse of so important a step ? 
He would not ! 
`` Mary , '' he said , `` I have resolved , at last , to go to Europe . '' 
She started , and drew his arm closer to her side . 
`` But that is not all , '' he continued . 
He hesitated a moment , and Mary , who had stopped and resumed her walk , took the opportunity to come in with what she thought was the encouraging word critically needed to confirm a great resolution . 
`` The very sunshine without which your genius must languish , my dear Paul , '' she said , in a low , strong , steady tone . 
said the loving voice of Mrs. Fane , who , as they walked slowly along the Mall , had entered from a side street and overtaken them , `` shall I interrupt your downcast eyes in their study of those broken shadows , if I take Paul 's other arm ? 
And , with that chance interruption , Paul 's confession sank back into silence -- to be resummoned and honestly achieved to the satisfaction of his conscience , but not till days had elapsed , and not till the life-long passion for Art had again found its supremacy and become the absorbing and main interest of his plans . 
Strong and keen motive as his new pride-thirst of social curiosity still continued to be , it fell to its secondary and subordinate place ; and , when avowed to Mary , it seemed to her but a side-interest of travel , incidental to his youth and sex . 
With her broad and unselfish appreciation , the new knowledge he thus wished was included in the outline of Taste , and accredited to the larger want and more instinctive completeness of his Nature . 
Paul had his misgiving as to receiving all of this generous estimate . 
But he marked the mental reservation with a tear of grateful tenderness at his heart , and a prayer for strength to be even what he was thought to be . 
With Mr. Fane 's unwavering justice and truth , his severity and practical angularity of judgment had always been borne with , hitherto , and till this unexpected proposition , by his son , no wish or decision of the father had ever needed to be openly opposed . 
By this calm dissent , known well to be wholly inflexible , Paul 's future separation of interest and support was to commence with his departure from the paternal roof . 
The respectfully dispassionate expression , by Mrs. Fane , of a regret at his difference of opinion , softened his departure from the room as he left for his evening walk , and the mother and son together once more , laid their plans for the future . 
She had , happily , a small income of her own , which , with close management and economy , might suffice for his mere wants , till he should find resources in the productions of his genius , and , with this assured , the new path might at least be entered upon . 
It was a late hour when they parted that night , at his study-door . 
Intending , with this chapter , to have taken a single flying leap to the fair city of Florence , and there -LRB- with the omission of a year in our story -RRB- to commence the history of our hero 's adventures in Europe , we found a difficulty -- unable to alight , that is to say within any very close neighborhood of Mr. Paul Fane , at Florence , without jostling a gentleman , who was , then and there , the sole sharer of the secrets of his domestic life , and to whose familiar acquaintance the reader would thus be too precipitately introduced . 
On entering college -LRB- five or six years previous to present date -RRB- Paul had obediently taken the `` room-mate '' assigned to him by `` The Faculty , '' and had thus found himself in sudden and bivalve familiarity with an equally astonished young gentleman from Indiana . 
With `` Bosh Blivins '' for a room-mate , Paul was not , at first , very particularly pleased . 
His manners , though based on heroic principles , were , as yet , matters of very general outline , the particulars to be filled in , according to individual need and circumstances . 
He would `` pitch into '' any Sophomore who tried a trick upon his slenderer room-mate , for instance , but he could not be made to understand the relative privacies of boots and hair-brushes . 
Then he mortified Paul , in their daily promenades to the Post-office , by his hoosier habit of resting -- squatting flat upon his heels , if his friend stopped to speak to a lady or look in at a shop window , and with his arms hung collapsedly over his knees , sitting motionless in this Western attitude of repose , till called to go on again . 
His vital electricity , also , had the Western peculiarity of becoming vocal with excitement . 
In his backwoods ' early education poetry had not chanced to fall much in his way , and now , as he sat up late at night , very much worked upon by Byron and Tom Moore , his various utterances of emotion at the exciting passages -- whistling , squealing , howling , or yelling , according to the sentiment to be sympathized with -- was very disturbing to Paul 's slumbers . 
Paul was an absorbent -- eager only to receive the magnetism of other minds , and expressing himself always with modest deference ; Blivins was a demonstrative -- eager only to impress , and saying all he meant , if not considerably more . 
Then , while Paul had a very keen sense of the ludicrous , habitually moderating his own language and manners by his knowledge of laugh-shot distance , Blivins was sublimely safe among his superlatives , and , though ready enough for broad fun when explained to him , wholly without natural recognition of that element in the intellectual atmosphere , and blissfully unconscious of being by any possibility in danger of ridicule himself . 
It is not unlikely , that , in the very contradiction of the two characters , lay half the secret of the friendship that soon grew up between them ; but they had some strong qualities in common , besides , and , after rooming together for the Freshman year , they were more than content to send in their names as `` chums '' in perpetuam.And so , for Sophomore year , Fane and Blivins hooked arms and vicissitudes . 
And with deductions like these , drawn from his long arguments with Paul , Blivins brought his college education to a close with the end of the Sophomore year , and was off for what he called a `` faster place , '' his native Indiana . 
With no capital except sanguine for one , Bosh 's first pick of customers for his imaginative goods was of course somewhat experimental , and , after various unsuccessful trials of the different professions , he found himself , in the second year after parting with Paul , profiting by some taste he had caught , and some little instructions he had received from his room-mate in his favorite occupation of drawing . 
He had become scene-painter to a dramatic company who had a floating theatre in a flat-boat on the Mississippi . 
With his hand thus got in , he looked around for what was wanted in that line , and soon found that such patriotic or pious pictures as he could paint -- say two per week , more or less -- found a ready sale . 
He worked at it a while , till the demand came in faster than he could finish off , and he then raised his prices , and began to think of fame . 
Italy was a country where he could work cheaper , and , at any rate , a better place for his pictures to hail from . 
To make sure , however , he began with a tour through the back settlements ; and , calling on the religious farmers and leading politicians , p746-043 he procured commissions for such subjects as they severally preferred , established an agency in Cincinnati , and so organized his market . 
`` Right , and fair , my dear Bosh , '' said Paul , `` though Giulietta 's ` ten cents an hour ' is for letting onepair of eyes drink of her beauty , and there are twoof us having that pleasure . 
Blivins stood half way between the two pictures , looking first at his strapping Hagar receiving her doom of exile from old Sarah , at the door of Abraham 's tent , and then at the timid Psyche just venturing , with her half-shaded lamp , upon the slumber of the yet unseen Cupid . 
interrupted Paul , who kept up a daily hammering upon Bosh 's exaggerations of fancy . 
That moonshine woman of yours would n't do for mycustomers , Mr. Paul ! 
`` No , '' said his friend , who had resumed his study of Giulietta ; and Paul went on sketching , while Blivins , with his attention mostly occupied with his work , entered upon a careless and interrupted narrative of one of his Western experiences -- showing the good influence of criticism , however , by shading away , as he talked , some of the superfluous plumptitude of his Hagar . 
* * * `` Topics , pork and lumber , I suppose , '' said Paul , breaking the silence , while Bosh became abstracted for a minute or two in gazing at a new turn of the light upon the superb shoulders of Giulietta . 
`` But the Abraham that is to serve for his likeness , there , had two wives at a time , '' suggested Fane . 
`` Then it was his Sarahdriven into the wilderness , not his Hagar , '' observed Paul . 
said Paul . 
`` And so , Giulietta , my dear , '' said Paul with a tone of compassion , as he walked across the room to lay away one of the waves of raven hair that was hiding the arch of her beautiful throat , `` you are not to be Mrs. Deacon Nash , after all ! '' 
murmured the half couchant peasant-girl , on hearing her name -- but with a look of tender earnestness in her large dark eyes , though she got no answer , which showed that the voice and manner of Paul even in a strange language , were very sweet to hear . 
Rather low water for Captain Nash 's family to drift in , Mr. Paul ! '' 
`` But , persisted Fane , who was beginning to have his own ideas about comparative happiness , `` do you think Giulietta would be happier and more innocent if she could change places even with Mrs. Sarah Nash ? '' 
`` All very well , out here , '' Blivins partly knocked under , by saying , as Paul took breath , `` but it 'll be a long time before they 'll turn it to account that way , if a girl is born handsome out West ! '' 
`` You 're putting it strong , Paul , '' said Bosh , giving more eyes than before , however , to the beauty that was so discoursed upon , `` for I do n't believe Giulietta cares a fig what the artists copy , or what they think while they 're doing it . '' 
And Giulietta stepped from the platform and drew up p746-051 the shoulder-straps of the coarse petticoat that had fallen around her hips , twisted her heavy masses of long raven hair into a knot , and , with her mantle drawn modestly around her faultless form , and her straw hat gracefully set upon her nymph-like head , courtesied her `` Addio , '' and gave a last sweet smile to Paul . 
Thereader is not aware , perhaps , that he was let into a secret , in the last chapter , by the description there given of Blivins ' studio , and of his and his friend Fane 's artistic morning with the fair model , Giulietta . 
Of course we should prefer to proceed , as we were about to do , and finish the story of that day by a description of our friends ' disposal of their evening -- Bosh being engaged to dine with the Fitz-Firkins , the wealthy American family resident at Florence , and Paul going to a Court ball at the Pitti -- but , as they both followed the custom of the country and took the afternoon nap -LRB- which goes by the pretty name of `` la siesta '' -RRB- , we have an interval of time , for which , without violation of probability , our story may leave them by themselves . 
On Fane 's first arrival at Paris , with a warm letter of introduction from his friend Mrs. Cleverly , to the wife of the American Minister , who chanced to be a special intimate of her own , he had been very kindly received ; and , with but time enough to confirm the favorable programme of his mind and manners given in the letter , had been taken under the especial wing of his distinguished lady-consignee , by his appointment as attachéto the Legation . 
By this nominal honor , with neither emoluments nor duties , Paul was put at his ease in the court society of the gay capital ; but it involved the necessity , also , that , in accordance with the usual proprieties of the position , he should appear , in all other respects , a gentleman of leisure . 
His studies for the main ambition of his life -- as an artist -- were again , therefore , as at home , put under a chance seal of privacy . 
For the secondary object of his visit to Europe -- the strong though unconfessed desire to look close upon the world 's finer or prouder clay , and know wherein it differed from himself and those he loved -- Paul 's horoscope seemed most favorably cast . 
It was with a secret satisfaction which he scarce dared acknowledge to himself , that he accepted the advantage thus held out to him , and with the magic `` open sesame '' of a diplomatic title on his card , entered upon the dazzling labyrinths of Parisian life , with its world-pick society of the high-born and brilliant . 
Fortunately for the effect of this giddy intoxication upon his impressible and plastic mind , the correspondence with his mother called him faithfully to account , day by day , before conscience and her calm , sweet eyes ; and , in his genius and what it found to appreciate and select in the glitter around him , there was still another pure spirit , unseen but ever silently separative and rejective ; and of these influences -LRB- the latter more particularly -RRB- , we may , perhaps , better trust one of his own letters to explain the value . 
He thus wrote from Paris : -- That little twitch at the lock of hair over my left temple tells me that you are here , just as certainly as when you crept behind me at my easel at home , and by that bell-pull to my abstracted brain , informed me that I was to come out of my picture and attend to you . 
It was three months after the date of this letter that Fane found himself in Florence -- his six months in Paris having given him all the knowledge of the gay capital of which he felt he could make conscientious use at that stage of his artistic progress , and his errand to Italy being the need he felt of the apprenticeship to its higher schools , combined with its better facilities for practical study . 
By the advice of his kind friend , the Minister , however , he had retained his appointment as attaché -- the diplomatic passport giving him the same privileges at other courts as at Paris -- and , on his arrival , he had duly gone through the form of a presentation to the hospitable sovereign of Tuscany , and , with his court position , and the letters he had brought , was very readily at his ease as a supposed traveller for pleasure . 
But Florence is a small capital , and the arrangement of means for a very devoted yet still necessarily secret pursuit of his professional studies , seemed to offer , at first , formidable embarrassments to Paul . 
He had occupied himself for a week or two in forming acquaintances and visiting the Galleries , his mind very much troubled with plans for which his small resources seemed quite unequal , when he chanced , one evening , to stroll into the caféof the Piazza Trinita . 
As usual , this favorite resort of artists and idlers was thronged with guests -- the wandering musicians , flower-girls , cigar-venders , and begging monks , all in lively circulation among the crowd -- and Paul seated himself at one of the marble tables , dispirited and lonely . 
He called for his coffee , and sat stirring away at his sugar very thoughtfully , when , carelessly looking up , he encountered a pair of eyes fastened upon him , the owner sitting on the other side of the café , in a petrified stare , head and arms thrown back , mouth wide open , and the power of motion , apparently , suspended for the moment by an asphyxia of speechless astonishment . 
Paul leaned suddenly forward , and as he shaded his eyes with his hand , the just visible parting of his lips with the inaudible question `` Bosh ! '' 
expressed his own incredulous amazement at what he saw . 
Paul Fane , by all that 's navigable ! '' 
And crouching into a figure 4 , like a hard-pushed bear clearing the chasm of a water-course , Blivins started on an air-line across the caféto Paul , overturning first the supper on his own round table , and then with a touch-and-go wipe of his foot over the top of the next one , carrying away the coffee and maraschino of a couple of thunder-struck French artists . 
The mutual miscellany of limbs and exclamations that the friends went into -- -LRB- for Paul 's own recognition of Bosh was a rebound from loneliness and depression , and he had embraced and re-embraced his old room-mate before he thought of the probable impression on those around -RRB- -- was a spectacle gazed on with apprehensive amazement . 
The waiters hesitated about taking hold of such a looking customer as Bosh , and , with the time thus gained , Paul settled his disturbed clothes and put on his habitual look of propriety ; and , with an apology to the two gentlemen who had been walked over , and an explanation to the landlord that his friend was from the Rocky Mountains and had the precipitate manners of the steep side of the American Continent , he paid the breakages , etc. , and walked Bosh off -- the track made for them by the distrustful crowd , as they gained the street , being considerably wider than the respect for Bosh 's personal presence usually commanded . 
Besides the pleasure of renewing their old intimacy , each happened to supply exactly the most pressing want of the other -- Paul 's counsel and tutorship in Art being very necessary to Blivins and Blivins 's nominal tenantship of a studio , and confidential agency in the procuring of all the belongings of an artist , being the very screen for retired application which Paul was puzzled to contrive . 
It was an accident favorable to Paul 's wishes , also , that Blivins , from some glimmer which his dignity had received of the probable misappreciation of his pictures by his brother artists in Florence , had , after the first week , jealously kept his sanctumto himself . 
`` I will make no engagement for to-morrow morning , '' said Paul , to his friend Bosh , as they parted at the door of their lodgings ; `` to a night with such an atmosphere as this , a man can only deliver himself over . '' 
`` Too pure a presence to bring such polluted eyes to , '' said Paul , thoughtfully . 
The passing vetturino , to whom Paul had beckoned , drove up at this moment , and the two friends parted for their different engagements -- Blivins to proceed on foot to the splendid `` Palazzo Firkin , '' and Fane directing the driver of the hired vehicle to pass out at the city gate toward San Miniato . 
He was to take tea with the Palefords , at their vineyard cottage among the neighboring hills , and come in with them to the court ball , at a later hour . 
With alternate crawl and scamper , after the fashion of the country , the vetturinopursued his way toward Casa F -- , and the yellow of the fading sunlight was contending with the silver of a full moon new risen , when they stopped at the rude old gateway . 
`` Porter or portress , whichever you please , my dear Fane , '' said Colonel Paleford , stepping out from under the roofed lintel , with his daughter upon his arm , and giving Paul a hand as he alighted , `` Sybil and I came down to share the honor of opening the gate for you . '' 
And warmly returning the grasp of the soldierly Englishman , and raising his hat with the most deferential homage as he bowed low to take the proffered hand of the daughter , Paul joined them on their return to the house . 
`` This is rather al fresco , for an invalid , '' said Mrs. Paleford , as she nodded familiarly to Paul , and went on pouring out the tea that had been waiting for them , `` but a house , in this climate , is such a different thing ! 
`` So defined in the bird-dictionary , '' said Paul . 
Paul was seated at the round table , by this time , with one of the younger children upon his knee , and Miss Paleford leaned upon her father 's shoulder , looking alternately into his face as he talked , and at the broad disk of the moon as it lifted among the olive-trees beyond . 
The beautiful girl took little or no part in the conversation , except by a worshipping attention to her father , which seemed to Paul to partake almost of the character of a fascination . 
`` And where bread and wine may be had at any vineyard gate for the asking , '' added Paul . 
`` But it is not merely in the climate and its prodigality of what will sustain life , '' continued his friend , `` but see how much more is free of cost than elsewhere -- say of luxuries , and to those who are poor , like us ! '' 
Paul glanced at the lofty impress of feature and manner on the family around him , and admired once more the English-ism of making no secret of reduced circumstances or necessary economy . 
`` The Duke 's galleries are of unheard of cost -- so are his gardens -- the galleries and gardens of his nobility -- yet neither he nor any one of his court is more at liberty to enjoy them than you or I , Fane -- and without the cost of a farthing ! 
`` But I have thought , even in my own country , where there is less ` luxury gratis ' than any where else , '' said Paul , `` that the rich man is often the care-worn manager of the theatre where others enjoy the play . '' 
asked the listening Sybil , turning her calm blue eyes from the moon upon Paul , with an effect , in their lustre and in the slow motion which he admiringly likened in his own mind to the priestess-like pouring out of vases-full of moonlight upon a worshipper of Dian . 
Busy with storing away the chance-gleam of so much beauty in his artistic memory -- observing , too , that the earnest study of his voicelessly responsive look had started the color into the cheek of the reserved girl -- Paul did not immediately answer . 
`` It would seem as if it must be so , '' replied Paul , and probably would be , but that wealth is brought into less esteem by two or three chance influences , that are also American . 
`` Undoubtedly -- nowhere more certainly , '' answered Paul -- `` though there would be different ground to be shown for the higher social standing , in each particular case . 
`` No , '' said Paul , hesitating and coloring slightly as he ventured upon a remark which only its entire truthfulness redeemed from being too directly complimentary , `` there is nothing which gives such unquestioned social standing in America as just what I have the happiness to see before me -- Nature 's mark and mould of superiority . 
The father playfully smoothed off the golden-edged tress from the forehead of his child so superbly beautiful , and she , in turn , looked into his clear-cut and noble features -- each finding in the other a confirmation of Paul 's bold venture of appreciation . 
`` And it is a privileged country , in that respect , '' continued Paul , `` for those who represent our first classes commonly have the look of it ; and when the stranger is called upon to recognise the leaders of society , it may be tolerably certain that he finds them to be Nature 's nobility also . '' 
`` Oftenest , '' said Paul smiling , `` though it is hardly looked upon as a sacrifice . 
Miss Paleford lifted her head from her father 's shoulder , and gave an attention to the conversation which Paul interpreted as only an amused interest in the novelty of the view . 
`` Oh , '' he continued , laughing , `` you should go to America to see the difference that little trifle makes in the manners of the young ladies ! 
`` There is not much complaint made , '' he continued , turning to Paul as the stately girl disappeared under the rough trellis-work which made the vestibule to their vineyard cottage -- `` not much that we hear of , at least , as to the subjection of the sex to this destiny of ` bought-and-sold , ' which , in our high European society , is scarce avoidable -- but there is occasionally a proud spirit that makes bitter rebellion against it ! '' 
Paul understood , from the degree more than usual of subdued distinctness with which the Colonel uttered this remark -LRB- at the same time so undertoning it as not to be overheard by his retiring daughter -RRB- that a point had been inadvertently approached where the pride of the queenly girl had made its resistance to what might be looked forward to as her lot , under the reduced circumstances of her family . 
Mrs. Paleford had , in the meantime , left them to assist at the toilettewithin ; and , putting his arm through the Colonel 's , Paul led off for a stroll through the vineyard , changing the subject as they turned away . 
We may leave the two gentlemen to their conversation , while we give the reader a hint or two , by which these -- Paul 's most intimate friends in Florence -- will have a fairer introduction to our story . 
Paul had first met the Palefords at court , where they had a position quite peculiar to themselves . 
To Paul , when first presented to her by his friend the Chamberlain , the stately Sybil had seemed simply a bewildering marvel of beauty . 
As the different foreigners left them , however , and the conversation fell into English , their common language , the Colonel had taken sufficient interest in his new acquaintance to propose that they should find a corner for a chat at their ease ; and so , with the inseparable father and daughter , Paul had commenced a `` wall-flower '' intercourse , which soon -LRB- between the gentlemen , at least -RRB- ripened into a friendship . 
In the quiet and deferential tone of the young stranger 's mind , the Colonel found something for which he insensibly formed a liking , and it increased as they met and exchanged thoughts , night after night , in the luxurious halls of the Pitti ; though upon Paul 's silent and artistic but still very evident study and appreciation of the fair girl who was the listener as they talked , he put only the interpretation of an unconscious homage to purity and loveliness , such as might easily be the ground-work of a passion -- though of another secret of Paul 's manner toward them both , the deeply-buried curiosity in his heart which they had powerfully re-awakened , and which they , of all persons , seemed most likely to gratify , neither Colonel Paleford nor his daughter had the means to form even a conjecture . 
There was a police arrest , immediately , of course , and it took some intercession of Paul , through his friend the Chamberlain , and some considerable `` damages '' from Mr. Firkin , for the damaged dragoon , to get Bosh out of the scrape ; but it established the tall hoosier in the favor of the Kentucky-bred girl -- one man , at least , who would `` go the whole '' for her -- and , at the Firkin dinners he became thereafter indispensable . 
I hear of a Mr. Fane that I mean to set my cap for , but he 's an attaché , and so finds enough to do at Court . 
No more at present , dear Kitty , from And , having thus introduced the reader to the company with whom prosperous Bosh was eating his distinguished dinner , while Paul was on his evening visit to the p746-087 Palefords , let us resume our friend 's history by overtaking him , later that night , on his way to the court ball at the Pitti . 
The Palefords had come late ; and the father having transferred his daughter to Paul 's arm , they loitered leisurely through the long galleries and ante-rooms , wondering over the profusion of rare flowers , and now and then listening in breathless silence to some more exquisite turn of the music in the distance ; but they reached the reception-room at last -- unwillingly , on Paul 's part -- and at a critical moment , as it chanced . 
The Grand Duke , for the first time since the death of the duchess , had consented to lay aside his saddened reserve , and was about to mingle in the dance . 
As Miss Paleford appeared upon the threshold , it seemed to decide a question in his mind ; and , meeting the trio half-way as they advanced to be presented , he took the hand of the English girl -- his royal invitation , of course overruling what , to one of any lesser rank , would have been a refusal -- and led her out for the quadrille . 
she said to Paul , with a slight retention of his arm , and in a voice intended to express a wish for the duke 's hearing . 
But Paul followed rather an instinct of his own . 
He did not take advantage of the consent that was in the duke 's momentary hesitation and look of inquiry ; and the quadrille , in the next instant , being made up without him , he found a stand where he could be alone and unobserved . 
It was a chance tableau , upon which the whole court was now bending its eye ; but Paul felt , the moment his gaze took in the lovely vision , that , in the artistic atmosphere of the Pitti Palace , the world 's inner sanctuary of Genius 's recognition of Beauty , it was impossible for any but one thought to be suggested by the figure of Sybil . 
Paul thought not . 
But while Fane 's earnest eyes were looking with their utmost intensity upon the picture that so occupied the court , he became aware that he was closely observed by Colonel Paleford ; and it flashed across his mind -LRB- as he afterwards had occasion to remember -RRB- that , though his absorbed manner had told truly of the entireness of his admiring homage , the causes and character of that homage might still be misunderstood . 
Of the two interests which he felt in the scene , either of which might give to his gaze the apparent concentration of enamored worship , his friend had no means of forming even a single conjecture . 
As an artist only , Paul would have been sufficiently engrossed . 
That Paul was the artist to see , in this unpainted picture of real life , a more adorable masterpiece than ever stood upon an easel -- that a morbid secret of his own heart gave him the key to read , in all its force and meaning , that poem of breathing beauty , so far deeper and more dazzlingly inspired than was ever moulded into verse -- were two unseen fires burning under the glow of his gaze ; and , that it looked , to the watchful-eyed father of that beautiful girl , like the unmistakable entrancement of a passion undeclared -- one upon the strength of which , at least , the happiness of a beloved child might safely be staked -- was in no way wonderful . 
As a parent keenly alive to the uncertain provision which his own pensioned life gave to his daughter , and anxious therefore that she should marry , but who , still , above all worldly requirements in a suitor , would demand the elevating romance of a most genuine natural attachment , such appearances would , of course , be stored away . 
Taken as Miss Paleford had been from the arm of Mr. Fane , to be led to the dance , he might , without any violation of propriety , receive her again , or she might , a little more etiquettically , perhaps , be handed to the charge of her father . 
Such was the degree of possible confidingness between herself and Paul , however , that to prefer being consigned to her father 's charge , was to avoid at least an opportunity to resume the conversation interrupted by the dance , and this , again , might be construed as indifference . 
And while this dilemma was presenting itself to her mind , she was not unaware of the intense interest with which , it will be remembered , Paul was gazing on her beauty . 
But , in Fane 's part of this wordless drama , there were conflicting elements which the others did not quite understand . 
He had been made aware -LRB- as was mentioned -RRB- , by a chance-seen expression in Colonel Paleford 's face , that , whatever was thought to be the motive of his own absorbed gaze at Miss Sybil , there was no disapproval of it . 
This suggested a possibility of which Paul had not hitherto dreamed , that his own assiduous cultivation of the friendship of the high-bred Englishman -- mainly the following out of an unavowed interest in him as the finest specimen he had yet seen of lofty courtliness of nature -- might have been interpreted , by his inseparable daughter , as the betrayal of a passion for herself . 
The quadrille was within an instant of breaking up , and Paul observed that Colonel Paleford had not left the side of the duchess-mother . 
His eyes were eagerly fixed on his daughter , however , and it was evidently his intention to leave it to her own look to decide whether he should step forward to receive her from her royal partner . 
`` Does Mr. Fane ever expect to get his eyes back from that charming vision ? '' 
at this moment said a low musical voice just behind him . 
Paul turned to the Princess C -- , whose slightly accented but pure and fluent English was familiar to him , and he was but half through the response which civility required , when the music stopped ! 
He was but half too late ! 
With the well-known character of his companion for willful lawlessness and fascination , Paul could not possibly have been in more unlucky company for the aggravation of his contrarieties of position . 
The look he exchanged with his friends in passing could explain nothing . 
He even felt , a moment after , that , with the apparent misunderstanding of his feelings toward themselves , it would be but an embarrassment to offer explanation , were he to be alone with them again . 
Better to have time , at least , for some clearer light upon it , he thought ; and it was with this need for seeing no more of the Palefords , that night , that he accepted an invitation from the princess , of which our next chapter will say more . 
Towind up a ball with a breakfast-party was one of the specialitiesof the eccentric princess who had taken Paul 's arm after the quadrille ; and , while he was yet puzzling his brain over his dilemma with the Palefords , he was bespoken for a gathering of choice spirits to whose table the sunrise should be the lamp . 
The villa G -- , amid whose witcheries of rural beauty and luxury these untimely gaieties were held , was on the slope of one of the eminences beyond Fiesolé , four or five miles from Florence ; and , Paul having accepted the offered seat in her Highness 's britzka , they whirled punctually away from the Palace gate as the morning star rose in the east -- the carriages crowding to the door for the departing guests , but the music still measuring gay vigils for the dancers within . 
As the only person of very high rank whom he had yet seen who differed from other people by acting out an every-day consciousness of birthright -LRB- eccentricity , it was called by her friends , and less amiably designated by common rumor -RRB- , the Princess C -- had an additional interest to Paul . 
By natural character , she seemed , to him , simply eagle-born among the sparrows of society . 
Quite idolized by the few with whom she chose to be intimate , and pleasing nobody else , the fascinating princess could hardly appear , to any court eyes , otherwise than dangerous to one of Fane 's age and inexperience -- the merely being seen in attendance upon her , when , by propriety , he should have remained -LRB- as he had intended to do -RRB- at the disposal of another , having the look of a neglect which was the result of a self-evident preference . 
The endeavor to convince himself that the Palefords must have understood the awkwardness of his position , and , with this , a half-conscious comparison of the exquisite beauty of Sybil with the reclining form thrown back in the carriage , and just visible by the gray light of the dawn , as they whirled along , was the counter-current of thought , which , for the moment , somewhat hindered Paul 's flow of conversation . 
Though wholly of another mould than the English girl , there was beauty in what he looked upon , however . 
Paul thought this repose , at first , to be the language of a period of life -- thinking there might be an emotional lull , for a woman of thirty , corresponding to the calm of mid-forenoon after the breezes of a summer 's morning . 
But however this might have confirmed it , the temperament itself , he soon found , was the tranquillity of a nature in which the nerves , as well as the coarser sensibilities , had felt the control of pride . 
With the few minutes of solitude thus gained , Paul 's buoyant health rallied from fatigue and care , and , as he stepped out upon the lawn , it was in spirits with which the just waked lark sung in tune . 
As she made her appearance presently , in her favorite costume of turban and négligé , her profusion of black locks over her shoulders , and her girdle of golden cord swinging from her waist -- -LRB- the tassels kissing each arching instep as it appeared , as if to call attention to the exquisite beauty of those deliberate little feet -RRB- -- Paul could not but give a sigh for his pencil . 
It was a picture of the inexplicably patrician air -- beauty made unimportant by the elegance and maintienthat out-did it -- of which he would have well liked to use that morning light in making a study . 
Paul , as a comparative stranger , was understood to be the object of interest for the moment to the hostess herself ; and , after a turn or two in groups around the fountains and statuary in the centre , each couple took its separate path for a ramble . 
`` The sun is like other every-day visitors , '' said Paul , while the servant was bringing cushions for the stone seat at which the princess was halting for a lounge ; `` his coming and his going are more agreeable than his stay . 
`` Few , except people of genius , see things with first eyes , '' he replied . 
`` And yet indebted to your Highness , I presume , '' said Paul , `` for its very first admission into polite society . 
`` My recognition of the day 's best hour , then , '' recommenced the princess , after a reverie which Paul had respected , `` is something like my preferences , in society . 
`` You like us , I suppose , '' said Paul , `` men or mornings , when we are not past blushing ? '' 
`` Nor will any one ideal , certainly , '' he suggested again . 
`` It is probably more because heis badly gloved , than because sheis badly educated , '' said Paul . 
`` Is it not vanity that makes the choice , '' asked Paul ; `` or , at least , an instinctive dread that intellectual conversation may demand too much , or otherwise have less flattery in it ? '' 
`` It would delight an artist to listen to your highness , '' said Paul , almost afraid that his concealed allusion to his profession would betray itself in his smile . 
A favorably true reading of her qualities of mind and character is exquisite pleasure to her '' -- `` Even though it be a surprise , '' interrupted Paul . 
`` I am mentally reversing the picture , '' said Paul , with his eyes cast to the ground and his mind far away for the moment , `` thinking how exquisite , in turn , to the man of genius , would be such appreciation of himself by the woman he admired -- appreciation '' -LRB- he continued , remembering to whom he was speaking , and meeting her dark eyes as he looked up -RRB- `` such as could be given to a superior mind by perceptions and powers of analysis like your own . '' 
`` The which perceptions and powers , '' she said , with one of the most delicious of her indolent smiles , I have been bestowing very industriously upon you , Mr. Fane ! 
`` Happily not introduced to you as one , however , '' said Paul , feeling the discovery thus far to be very agreeable , but still acting upon his habit of keeping his profession to himself . 
asked his friend with a more closely scrutinizing look . 
`` According to court usage , '' he replied , -LRB- seeking the cover of ceremony from a discussion that might endanger his secret -RRB- , `` my position behind my diplomatic button is better than it might be behind an easel ; and I could not presume to suppose that your highness would make an exception in my favor . '' 
Paul 's sensitiveness as to his secret began to grow nervous . 
He feared from the leaning of the last remark , that the princess knew more than she had admitted ; but , thinking he would make one more effort to throw the artist into the background , he rushed into a digression that proved suggestive : `` I should have supposed , '' he said , `` that your preference would have been quite the other way , and simply for a woman 's strongest of reasons -- pride of monopoly . 
`` Better the half of a gold ring than the whole of a brass one , '' impatiently interrupted his listener , `` even if your theory were altogether true . 
ejaculated Paul . 
There is something without language , Mr. Fane , which tells how we seem to others ; and it degrades us to be admired by some minds -- they so vulgarize and materialize all they look upon ! 
Paul , by this time , was studying with very genuine wonder and admiration the effect given to high-born grace and distinction by natural abandonand passionateness . 
She had stopped for a moment and stood , silently before him , lost in thought -- the warmth of her tone and action betraying that the subject had turned a chance key to the chamber of her heart hidden from the world , and her flashing eyes and the expansion of her thin nostrils most forgetfully expressive and beautiful . 
`` Pardon me , '' said Paul , with the enthusiasm of the most natural homage in his voice , `` pardon me if , in turn , I recognize genius out of place -- an improvisatricewho has been cradled for a princess ! '' 
She offered him her hand with a sudden change to gaiety of manner , and allowed him to raise it respectfully to his lips . 
`` Madame , '' commenced Paul , with an embarrassed inclination of the head -- but , at this moment , two of the other guests approached , returning from their ramble . 
That is our own world , remember , my dear Fane ! '' 
And preceding the other couple to the drawing-room -- -LRB- Paul the sudden sharer in a confidence which he had not the time , even if he had had the skill to control or modify -RRB- -- the curtains were dropped , and amid the in-door twilight now made more agreeable by the strengthening sun , the conversation became general between guests and hostess . 
It was an hour or two after this that Paul was whirling back to Florence , alone in the princess 's britzka , but with a brain very thickly peopled with contending thoughts . 
That he was under a spell of fascination , new and bewildering , he could not but confess to the two spirits that his consciousness compelled him to know were now looking down upon him -- his mother and Mary Evenden -- but the chain that bound him was not thus altogether broken ! 
The secret weakness of his ambition -- the unconfessed and secondary , but still powerful , motive of his visit abroad , had been doubly touched and tempted , within the past night . 
How resist sometrial , at least , of the intoxicating tests , now so apparently within reach -- tests of what sympathy was possible between his own and the world 's very finest and proudest clay ? 
Sybil Paleford -- should he risk the dangers of a friendship with such peerless beauty ? 
The Princess C -- , and her strange , bold defiance of the world -- could he fly from her already bewildering spells to be alone with his home memories and his pencil ? 
The wheels rattled over the flag-stone pavements of the Piazza Trinita , while he turned over these busily conflicting thoughts , and , landed at the door of his lodgings by the liveried servants of the princess , he was glad to darken his room for early siesta , and seek the troubled mind 's blessed refuge of sleep . 
Paul thanked God for June , as he stood before his easel . 
Not a pore in his frame that was reluctant to let his soul out upon his work -- his eyes feeling largely willing , his hand breadthy and dexterous , his consciousness throughout proportionate and full -- even Blivins , in the other corner of the vast room , conscious of the same delicious influence . 
`` Paul ! '' 
said he , `` my dear boy , did you ever feel such a unanimous morning ? '' 
But Paul would have had too busy a heart , if his genius had not put it in harness . 
The subject on his easel gave it work . 
In a crayon sketch of three female heads grouped like the Graces , he was trying to bring in the light shadows that haunted him ; for , in the dim background of his imagination , with changing prominence and brightness -- fading into indistinctness at one hour , and all powerful the next -- dwelt three visions of beauty . 
To each , in turn , as its bewildering influence swept over his sleeping or waking dreams , he felt strangely and irresistibly subject . 
But so different looked they , near or distant , and , in the changing light of mere memory so impossible to bring into comparison , that he felt compelled to call his genius to his aid . 
If his pencil would but compel to the light those three viewless enchantresses , and so place them in contrast that one loveliness might be controlled and measured by the other -- if he could sketch them , each at its best , as it appeared to him , and , in one unchanging picture , by which his outward eye could call to reason the capricious and evasive fancy , take refuge from the strangely alternating supremacy of one or another -- he felt that he should be less hopelessly adrift . 
As he elaborated more exquisitely an expressive line in the features of one of these beautiful heads , the intercourse that had passed between him and the Palefords , since the duke 's ball , came freshly to his mind . 
We will leave him to re-touch , also , his crayon memories of Mary Evenden and the princess , while we outline for the reader one portion of the shadowy background to which his thoughts now wandered . 
From his siesta , after the breakfast with the Princess C -- , Paul had waked , with his English friends uppermost in his mind . 
To his cooler eyes , his position , with reference to them , seemed more embarrassing . 
In their secret thoughts he was undoubtedly accused of an inattention that had the character of a slight ; yet it was one that it would be extremely difficult either to explain or apologize for . 
By nothing that had happened to Paul , since his residence abroad , had his pride been so substantially gratified as by this courteous and lofty-minded soldier 's preference for his society . 
It had given him an invaluable self-confidence as to his own quality of nature . 
If only from grateful attachment to the father , should he not run every risk to show that any conscious inattention to the daughter was impossible ? 
And another thought came up with this -- a question that had occurred to his own mind more than once -- was there not a degreeof acquaintance , at which the maintenance of his own false position , as an apparent diplomatist , became an unfairness ? 
Was it not quite time that he threw aside his borrowed consequence as an attaché -LRB- the mere title , by foreign usage , implying just what he had no claim to , fortune , high connections and certainty of preferment -RRB- ; and would not the two explanations seem natural together ? 
He seized his pen , at this thought , and , instead of his usual sunset stroll toward the Boboli gardens , indited the following leter : -- Not quite sure that I have anything to write to you about -- or rather , seeing very distinctly that what may seem important for meto write may not be important enough for youto take the trouble to read -- I still venture to intrude upon you , as you see . 
that my title as attachéis nominal only.Miss Paleford , of course , gives me the full benefit of the word in its common acceptation ; but , instead of being the young man of fortune and family for whom this door to a courtly career is usually thrown open , I am simply Paul Fane , an obscure youth , with no diplomatic or other promotion in prospect , and dependent wholly on my own efforts for future support -- the American minister at Paris having done me the kindness to put this title on my passport merely as a facility of form , by which I might better see society . 
With thanks -LRB- thanks of which you will now better understand the full meaning -RRB- for your kind hospitalities and friendly attentions , and , with my most respectful and grateful compliments to Mrs. Palesford and your daughter , I remain , my dear colonel , Chancing to know that Colonel Paleford was to be at the English embassy that evening , Paul sent round his letter , with the ink scarce dry ; but was a little mystified by the answer , brought him by his own messenger . 
In the friendly informality of this there was , at least , negative evidence that his letter had given no offence to his friend ; but Miss Paleford was still to see it , and whether it was to improve or damage his position in that delightful family circle , was the main question in his thoughts for the following day . 
One point he felt secretly more easy upon -- the liberty he should now feel to address conversation to the daughter , and otherwise pay her such attentions as were natural . 
It was always at least possible , before , that he might be numbere damong the attachés , who are proverbially eligible as suitors ; and this , even as a possibility being set aside by his avowal of poverty and obscurity , he could be freer to exchange thoughts with her , or even to express his admiration . 
Whatever the footing upon which he should find himself , after this trying visit , the field to cultivate would be one of friendship only , and free of all chance of misunderstanding . 
Paul crossed the Arno as the afternoon light grew more golden , and took the southerly road winding into the hills -- the difficulty of getting any conversation out of the thoughtful signore , who was usually so frank and courteous , acting very depressingly on the spirits of the favorite vetturino.But the passenger 's perplexity of mind would have been vainly confided even to so affectionate a driver as Giuseppe . 
It was on what artists call `` a vanishing line '' -- so imperceptible its change from light to shade -- that Paul balanced the crisis of the coming hour . 
The sun dipped at the horizon as Paul walked up the trellised lane to the old stone casa , and , as the sound of his approaching footsteps was heard , he was called to , from around the angle of the house . 
In the shade of the eastern front stood the tea-table as usual ; and here , in their easy-chairs , with books and papers , work and playthings , lounged the family , expecting him -- the general acclamation with which he was received , strange to say , suddenly putting to flight all remembrance of what he meant particularly to observe ! 
With the `` How are you , my dear Fane ? '' 
It is not too much to say that it almost took away Paul 's breath to look upon that approaching vision . 
He had never seen Sybil Paleford before , except with the severest simplicity of dress -- her hair made the least of , and her pride of coldness and unostentatiousness having guarded so closely against ornament or effect , in her exterior , as to give it the air of a rebuke to admiration . 
From under a most exquisitely becoming cap broke loose a wealth of the golden edged locks usually so closely put away ; and , with this additional shade heaped so massively over temples and cheek , the eyes , to Paul 's artistic perception , were made unfathomably deeper . 
With the absolutely new disclosure made by this costume of intimacy , Paul was completely bewildered ! 
With Miss Paleford , heretofore , Paul had always felt that he conversed , through the mind and mood of the father , on whose arm she so habitually leaned . 
There was a difference , now , however , which he could scarce explain . 
As she took her place between Paul and her mother , giving him her hand with the usual first commonplaces of greeting , there was a slight heightening of color -- but , this over , her features and manner gave an impression like the light in a just un-shuttered room . 
Never before to him had that smile shone clear through , with no barrier between heart and lips . 
She was as childlike and playful as she was largely and nobly beautiful ; and while , in the pride-forgetting joyousness of her every accent , Paul felt an electric exhilaration , he still struggled in strange bewilderment at the change ! 
It was a rapid review of these circumstances and thoughts which coursed through the mind of Paul , as he followed with his pencil a gleam of deeper insight into the features of Sybil Paleford . 
As his study of that face , and the other two , in the sketch upon his easel , had much to do with the moulding of his destiny , we shall bring the reader to find him again at work upon them , farther on . 
Itwas an interesting day at the Blivins ' studio -- -LRB- some two weeks after the date of the preceding chapter -RRB- -- Miss Firkin being expected at twelve to give Mr. Blivins her first sitting for a portrait , and Paul having yielded a point to his friend in consenting to be present . 
This latter circumstance had been the subject of some argument , Paul having begun to attach a certain poetical charm to the secrecy of his artistic life , and finding , besides , that the possession of an unproclaimed accomplishment , such as the discipline of taste and eye which belongs to an artist , gave him a magnetism , like a sympathy of freemasonry , over the superior minds met with in society . 
With Miss Firkin , who had attached great interest to the making of Paul 's acquaintance , it would be a vast accession to Mr. Blivins 's character as an artist , if Mr. Fane were known to be his daily visitor -- showing either a sympathy of taste , or still better , an amateur desire to take advantage of the facilities of his friend 's studio to pursue a study of drawing . 
The commissions for portraits which might grow out of this -- Miss Firkin being , as it were , the controlling axle to a large circle of titled subjects for his pencil -- Blivins declared to be a prospect equal to the `` good will '' of a freighting-line on the Mississippi . 
Business first with Bosh , of course ; but there was another argument which he did not openly press , though it followed very close on the heels of the other in his secret thoughts , and , with a friend 's tender interest in matters of feeling , Paul would have felt even more bound to make the sacrifice . 
It was the arbitress of his fate who was to sit for her portrait to him ; and , with the light and shade of hope and trepidation was that picture -- the picture of the possibly future Mrs. Blivins -- to be drawn and colored ! 
Long before the appointed hour , the palette was set with its colors ; the canvas stood ready upon the easel ; and Paul 's still assiduous pencil was left at work alone upon the beauty of the patient Giulietta . 
said Bosh , coming behind Paul 's easel with amiably concealed impatience , and looking upon his sketch as if to see what it was that so unaccountably engrossed him ; `` do n't you think you could leave off , now ? 
Paul pulled out his watch . 
`` But , Paul ! 
You see these two figures -- the younger Rimini , just stabbed by his jealous brother , is soaring away into ghost-land , with the spirit of the dead Francesca striving to cling to him . 
It has been a sinful love , you understand , for which he has lost his life , and the attempted caress , therefore , is received in the other world with reluctance . 
`` Oh , I 'll arrange that , '' said Paul , proceeding to get Blivins 's tall figure into pose -- `` something must be imagined , in every picture . 
By showing his sketch to Giulietta , Paul had easily explained , to her accustomed eye , what was to be the combination of attitude between her and Bosh . 
said Paul , `` excellent ! '' 
And the horror-stricken mother had half succeeded in dragging her daughter back to the landing-place of the stairs , before the petrified Blivins -LRB- for Paul did not feel sufficiently acquainted to interfere -RRB- could utter a syllable of remonstrance . 
Paul came forward also , and paid his respects with a formal deference , in which there was no consciousness of anything wrong or unusual ; and so , at last , the unexpected commotion was allayed . 
`` My friend , Mr. Fane , '' said Blivins , as the ladies took seats and looked around , `` is an amateur of the Arts , in addition to his other distinguished accomplishments , and -- -LRB- you see by his easel in the corner , ladies ! -RRB- 
`` Particularly a privilege to-day , '' said Paul , with a complimentary inclination of his head , `` as I am to have the honor , I believe , of giving an opinion upon the costume and attitude in which my friend is to paint Miss Firkin ! 
he continued , addressing the young lady with the tone of the most simple desire for knowledge on the important point . 
`` What do you think is my style , Mr. Fane ? 
`` Miss Firkins is right , '' said Paul , putting in a timely word . 
`` A female figure in a helmet and tunic , '' said Paul . 
`` You have not favored us with your own opinion , yet , Mr. Fane ! '' 
With a glance at Miss Firkin 's slight change of attitude -- her chest a little thrown forward , and the left cheek turned off so as to give plenty of room to the shoulder below -- Paul saw at once that there were natural advantages of figure to which that picture was , in some way , to be made to do justice . 
`` As to faces , Miss Firkin , '' said Paul , in reply to her question , `` I have found that they change in their impression upon us , almost invariably with closer study -- particularly with study under the pencil . 
Exactly my idea , Mr. Fane ! 
-- `` But this is only a suggestion , '' continued Paul , `` and it would be better , at least , to give Mr. Blivins ' own higher order of imagination its natural precedence . 
Blivins bowed affectionately to Paul . 
I have the consent of my friend , '' Paul added with grave humility , `` to occupy my usual place at the other easel , and share his subject with him -- Miss Firkin consenting '' -- `` Certainly ! 
`` And as I stand at a different point of view , '' he continued , `` it will not be surprising if I see the expression differently . 
This last proposition was altogether too delightful to be objected to -- Miss Firkin enchanted , Blivins relieved of `` immediate first pressure , '' and Mrs. Firkin considerably flattered with the interest taken in the matter by `` that very polite Mr. Fane . '' 
Mr. Fane , Blivins 's friend , is studying drawing , in the same room ; and he offered to `` make a study , '' as they call it , by painting me , at the same time , as Cleopatra poisoning herself . 
And he made a beginning . 
But you know , to find her heart -LRB- where the poisonous serpent is to be applied -RRB- , Cleopatra is obliged to get below her figure , a little -- -LRB- rather more , at any rate , than I could sit for -RRB- -- and , though Mr. Fane offered very politely to paint as much of me as might be thought proper , and then finish his study from an Italian model -LRB- a pretty girl that is made very much like me -RRB- , mamma would not allow it . 
Well , here I am at the bottom of my fourth page ; and half my object , when I sat down to write , was to tell you all about Mr. Fane , whom I have scarce mentioned . 
So , good-night for now , dearest Kitty , and to bed will go And here , dropping the curtain for the present , upon the Blivins side-scene in Paul 's artistic life , we will pass to his more personal experiences in another chapter . 
Itwas mid-forenoon ; and -LRB- with a very unusual irregularity -- for he made a religion of his Art , and ordinarily suffered no engagement of pleasure or ceremony to interrupt his habitual industry -RRB- -- Paul was not at his studio . 
He paced up and down the little parlor of his lodgings , awaiting the carriage of the Princess C -- , but with very conflicting feelings for his thought-company , meanwhile . 
His own heart had called him to account . 
In his pocket was a letter from his mother -- unopened . 
It had been brought him as he waited to fulfil the engagement of the morning ; and , making the excuse to himself that probably there would not be time to read it before he should be called away , he had thus deferred what he never had deferred before . 
But that letter had arrived just as he was summoned to the same bar of self-examination by another twinge of conscience . 
And the note of this morning was to request Paul to stay at home till she should call and take him there . 
But what meant the uneasiness with which he waited to comply with this invitation ? 
Why could he not go , with such a lover of Art as the princess , to give his admiration , with hers , to the genius of a youthful sculptor , without a jealous unwillingness so foreign to his usual generous appreciation ? 
As the rattle of wheels announced the stop of a rapidly driven carriage at the door , Paul stood self-convicted of two charges from which he was very glad to escape -- first , a jealousy which betrayed a deeper interest in that lady than he had been willing to confess , and , second , a consciousness that to the nature of this jealous interest the mere presence of his mother 's letter was a reproof . 
He dreaded that the reading of it might break the charm , even of the doubtful pleasure of that morning . 
To get rid of an oppressive solitude , as well as to prevent the princess from waiting , Paul made haste below ; but the well-appointed equipage was at the door without her . 
The footman 's message was to say that her highness had been passing the morning at Signor Valerio 's , and the carriage would bring Mr. Fane to her highness at the Galeria Secchi . 
Away dashed those proud blood horses , and discontentedly alone upon the cushions of the luxurious britzka rode Paul . 
He was struggling to disbelieve and make light of his fascination by the princess ; but that did not prevent his feeling something exceedingly like resentment , that she should have anticipated an engagement with himself in her eagerness to get earlier to his rival . 
His preparation to seem unconcerned , and the endeavoring to smother all that should interfere with a proper estimate of the sculptor 's work and a liberal commendation of it , occupied quite all the time which it took the gay equipage to thread the narrow streets to its destination . 
It struck Paul that her highness 's `` tiger '' seemed very much at home , as , on arriving , he led the way into the galeriaof Signor Secchi ; and , without asking for the polite old sculptor , pursued his way past the larger workshops , and through passages and side-doors , to the hidden haunt of his pupil . 
The mysterious Signor Valerio must be very often visited , Fane thought , when the confidential servant knew the way so trippingly ! 
But , to what a luxurious studio was Paul suddenly introduced ! 
There was no one in the room when he entered ; and , as the door closed behind and left him in silence , he looked around with an increased tumult of wonder and jealousy . 
Paul felt -- he did not dare , for the moment , to ask himself why -- boundlessly relieved . 
He looked around him with fresh eyes , and admiration inexpressibly more willing , as she described to him the secret culture of her artistic tastes in this chamber of enchantment . 
`` You doubted my capability of appreciating it , '' said Paul . 
`` But there must be few of your friends , who , even by waiting , have gained the privilege of entrance here , '' he said , `` for I am surprised never to have heard a hint of such a delicious mystery . '' 
The princess , meantime , was unwinding the wet cloth from the figure on the easel ; and -LRB- deferring for the moment his closer look at the statues -RRB- Paul went on with his inquiries into the intellectual portion of the mystery . 
`` With so exquisite a piece of work as this which you are unveiling , '' said he -LRB- for the admirable lines of a most lovely figure , nearly completed , now became visible -RRB- , `` how are you content with secresy ? 
`` The higher beauties among birds and flowers have no such exclusiveness , '' said Paul , smiling . 
`` But , to return to my simile , '' said Paul ; `` the light of the star is lost , unless the few and the many are shone upon together ; and the influences of genius are as varied as the uses of starlight -- the boor and his sweetheart promising to remember each other by the same star that inspires the poet and instructs the astronomer . 
`` I have embodied something of this feeling , '' said the princess , without directly meeting Paul 's argument , `` in my modelling of Daphne , here . 
`` Why , '' said Paul , laughing at the artistic earnestness with which the fair sculptress maintained her theory , `` they are certainly perfections that might pass unobserved in a Venus who did not turn her back upon us ! '' 
asked Paul , with a smile . 
Paul approached nearer , and looked upon what he thought one of the most exquisite creations he had ever seen in marble . 
It was the figure of a youth who had fallen asleep after slaking his thirst at the fountain flowing past his lip -- his arm thrown neglectfully over his head , the proportions of his form ethereally delicate , and an expression , both in the unalarmed abandonment of posture and in the delicately intellectual features , telling of a never-troubled spirituality of repose . 
`` But this divine model of Indifference -- you have made it of our sex , '' said Paul , after gazing on it for some time in silent admiration . 
`` But , in the excessive beauty of this creation , you have made Indifference more attractive than it is in real life , '' said Paul . 
`` Why , '' said Paul , `` I think our sex borrows more safely of yours than you of us . 
The princess held up the skirt of her artistic tunic with a look of inquiry ; and , as Paul looked at her in her male attire , he could not but confess that the inference to be drawn from his remark would be but true . 
`` In the intoxicating presence of these triumphs of your genius , '' said he , slightly coloring , `` it is of little importance how your outward person is attired ; but I must still own that I have seen your highness dressed more becomingly . '' 
`` I had already found the features to be very like your own , '' he said , as they turned to the nearly finished clay figure on the easel . 
Paul looked in silence on the clay figure while the thoughtful artist , now interested again in her work , touched , with the imperceptible elaboration of her moulding pencil , the round of the forward thrown shoulder . 
The poetic meaning of the conception -- beauty unchanged except by the utter withdrawal of all expression of what it had lived for -- the lamp unbroken but unlit -- was carried out , Paul thought , with a fineness of discrimination possible only to inspired genius . 
But there was an expression in the statue to which his mind kept returning ; and of which he tried in vain to understand the secret . 
Paul found words , after a while , to express what was his embarrassment in the study of the sad Hermione ; and the princess , to whom the remark seemed new , entered with him upon an analysis of the proportions of the figure -- without success , however , as to the solution of the problem in his mind . 
`` Even without the likeness to your own features , '' he said , `` it would have seemed to me that your own undeniable presence breathes through the complete whole -- as recognisable as a spirit-portrait might be to spirit-eyes . '' 
The discussion reverted again to the other statues , and from a critical analysis of the Antinoüs , Paul picked out , in that creation also , proofs of the fascinating artist 's unconscious reproduction of herself . 
Paul ceased to find fault with the male costume of the gifted woman , when he found how thoroughly and enthusiastically she became an artist with that convenient outward transformation -- how magically complete was the sculptress , with those firmly held pencils of boxwood , and the light shaded from those earnest eyes with the slouched p746-154 hat ! 
In the glow of her genius she forgot , and almost made Paul forget , the woman and the princess . 
The princess retired to her dressing room to reappear in her costume better known ; and as the sun set over Florence , the two artists -- Paul irresistibly happy with the spells thus magically wove around him -- were driven rapidly out of the gate toward Fiesolé , on their way to their tête-à-têtedinner at the Villa G -- -- . 
Paul ` sthoughts , on the morning after his tête-à-têtedinner with the princess , were not , where they might easily have been , amid the memories of that bewildering day . 
In the visit to the strangely hidden studio of the eccentric sculptress and in the few dream-like hours which he had afterwards passed at her luxurious villa , there were remembrances enough to give full employment to a mind at leisure ; but he was doubly pre-occupied , that morning and with things very differently exciting . 
On the table before him , as he dressed , lay two missives , either of which , without the other , would have been sufficient to monopolize his attention -- the letter from his mother , which he had read , after his return home , the night before ; and a note from Miss Paleford , just received , and running thus : Papa has commissioned me to act as his amanuensis , his only hand being disabled by the neuralgic trouble to which he is liable , and I obey -- only with a little uncommissioned variation of my own . 
We shall look for you at our usual early tea-hour , and , meantime , dear Mr. Fane , I remain The nerve out of tune in Paul 's heart was struck by that well-remembered name . 
And the excitement was not alone from what it recalled -- the cold eye from which he had received his first humiliation . 
One evening at the Palefords , the conversation turning upon their home associations in England , there had been a chance mention of the Ashlys as their wealthiest neighbors ; and , by a question or two , he identified them with those he had seen . 
Miss Paleford 's note was flattering -- assuming , as it did , that there could be no doubt of the agreeableness , to Mr. Ashly , of the proposed frank offer of a service from the new acqaintance ; and , had the stranger borne any other name , Paul would have taken this for granted without giving it a second thought . 
Being a close student of men , as well as of the gentler sex , Paul had become interested , very soon after his arrival in Florence , in an Englishman who , by his own countrymen , was called `` a character . '' 
He was first pointed out to Paul as the man who had refused to be presented at court -- the English ambassador having taken a great fancy to him , and proposing it , but Mr. Tetherly declining on the ground that he was the son of a tradesman , not presentable at his own court at home , and therefore not entitled to it abroad . 
Between Paul and him there had grown up , from their first introduction , a cordial understanding . 
To Paul , with his republican newness to that part of foreign life which was artificial , this was an invaluable quality in a mind to which he had daily access ; and it was therefore with a happy sense of relief that he now turned to his English friend for advice as to the execution of Miss Paleford 's commission . 
`` Just in time for a cup of tea , my dear Fane ! '' 
exclaimed the bachelor , as Paul opened the door . 
and give that chair to Mr. Fane ! '' 
`` Allow me to wonder at this lonely breakfast of yours , '' said Paul , as he took the vacated seat -- the terrier becoming his vis-à-vis , by occupying his master 's lap , with his paws again on the edge of the table -- `` you might so easily come round to the café , and give us the pleasure of your company every morning . '' 
`` Surely , '' said Paul , looking at the well-spread table , `` you could breakfast for much less '' -- `` Pardon me , '' interrupted Tetherly , `` I forgot that you were not aware of what I am obliged to economize most . 
`` Why , '' said Paul , laughing , `` I might confess to a more sentimental cherishing of the same idea . 
-- that is putting rather too fine an edge upon it , '' said Tetherly , smiling at Paul 's poetical innocence , `` or , at least , I never came so near breakfasting , that way , with a nice woman , as to inquire what made it agreeable . 
`` Yes , '' said Paul , whose artistic finger of thought was immediately laid upon the nice line of the definition , `` I have once or twice in my life seen faces which owed their charm to that expression -- looking always sacredly fresh from privacy -- and it has occurred to me whether it might not be cultivated as a beauty . '' 
`` It would require to be so well done , '' said Paul , `` that it must be classed among the reserved weapons of the gifted . 
asked Tetherly -- both he and Paul lapsing into a reverie of a moment or two , the silence of which was broken , at last , by the barking of the terrier . 
quietly said the master , as he reprovingly pulled the ear of his dog ; `` pray pardon the Baronet 's lack of discrimination , my dear Fane ! 
He has been taught to vary conversation , when visitors are dull , by barking in the ` awkward pauses . ' 
He did not appreciate the resting on our oars while thought was under headway . '' 
`` If he lack discrimination , he lacks what his master is very rich in , '' replied Paul , laughing at the novelty of dog-supply for the gaps of conversation ; `` and , if you will pardon the digression , my dear Tetherly , it is just that volume of wisdom which I have called to consult , this morning . '' 
`` You will laugh at the commonplaceness of my ` myth , ' '' said Paul . 
`` Social distinctions , '' answered Paul -- `` or that part of them which may be described as the ethics of introductions between gentlemen.We are a prairie on this subject , as yet -- with here and there an obstinate squatter , perhaps , or a temporary encampment . '' 
As Paul hesitated a moment , turning over in his mind how he might best present the handle of his dilemma , `` You-Sir '' broke the silence with his inquisitive bark . 
`` Bow , says the baronet , you observe , '' replied Paul -LRB- `` though , with a slight stammer , he prolongs it into bowwow -RRB- , and he is right , as far as he goes . 
`` Two points disposed of , '' said Paul . 
`` An illustration that contains a forcible argument , I admit , '' said Paul . 
Paul mentioned Miss Paleford 's commission , and the necessity it put him under , of breaking his own rule as to asking introductions , still reserving to himself , however , the secret which linked a separate nervousness with the stranger 's name . 
Paul felt more relieved than he could explain to his p746-168 friend , for the apt and ready suggestion ; but his thanks were very abundant , and he took his leave with half the load , at least , gone from his heart . 
Too uneasy , still , for his accustomed work , he took his mother 's letter for company , and , in the lonely and luxurious solitudes of the duke 's gardens , wiled away , with meditative idleness , the day that was to precede the evening of trial Paul ` smother 's letter had lain open on the table while he was dressing for the soiréeat the English embassy , and it was with somewhat a complex feeling that he now gave himself up to it for five minutes before going out for the evening . 
In any newly opened letter from her hand , there was the presence of a guardian spirit which he had hesitated to confront with his promise of adventure of the evening before -- delaying therefore the reading of this one till he should have returned from the visit with the princess to the mysterious artist -- but it was not altogether as a delinquent trying to make amends for a neglect , that he now re-conned the already well-studied syllables . 
There was another very important ministration , for which the spirit of his mother 's letters had grown , insensibly , with his European experiences , to be the reliance . 
Though a general human want for which it thus furnished the supply , it was so far American that it was one to which the atmosphere of monarchical countries for the first time made him sensitive . 
The more sacred world than society -- the something of his own to which all the exterior of his present life should be secondary -- was the need which he found supplied in those letters . 
He read his thoughts back into his mother 's presence , before going out , to be reassured of what , more precious than the errand out of doors , he had to come home to . 
The association so constantly with those who had rank , station or resources , like nests to which they could at any moment return -- to whom society was but the air when idly on the wing -- had awakened in Paul 's mind , gradually , a dread of the heart-sinking sense of vagrancy . 
Bound , for the evening , to a scene where his habitual welcome was particularly friendly and familiar , there was still to be an encounter with eyes akin to the first that had ever looked coldly on him -LRB- an introduction to an Ashly -RRB- -- and it was perhaps with the vague shadow of association with this name that Paul lingered more sensitively than usual over what was dearest to him . 
He once more turned to make certain upon what better treasure , than his errand without , he was to lock the door of memory within.Thus ran the concluding pages with which his mother wound up her gossip of home matters : * * * Your accounts of gaieties and intimacies are very amusing , and , to us at this distance at least , they seem to be throwing very attractive spells upon you as you pass . 
The wisdom enough for any one day , or its choice of conduct , my dear Paul , will come easy . 
The chatty letters we get are not from that portion of you which she knew best -- the Paul of whose genius she loved the features -- and she is only afraid of being outgrown by this inner physiognomy which is thus lost sight of while fastest maturing . 
* * * It was with his inner eyes thus brightened -- his consciousness of a life , for which another sky furnished him with the light and air , renewed and made familiar -- that Paul drew on his gloves and strolled slowly out to his evening 's engagement . 
Paul turned from one of the narrower cross thoroughfares , and entered upon the glare of the porch-way , where the equipages were dashing in and out with the guests for the festivities at the English Embassy , not feeling that , in his own solitary walk hither , he had loitered through the hushed shadows altogether alone . 
The guests of the small dinner-party which had preceded the general reception , were just from table ; and one of the two or three strangers who were gathered immediately around the ambassador , Paul supposed must be Mr. Ashly . 
After making his bow to the lady of the house , he made the tea-tray an errand for approaching this group of gentlemen ; and it needed but half a look for his well-prepared eye to select the face which should be the brother 's of her whom he had such occasion to remember ! 
After shaking hands with the ambassador , Paul fell into conversation with an acquaintance who was one of the group , and , seeing Tetherly occupied at a little distance with a lady , he thought he would thus wait his time till that friend should come along , as proposed , for the incidental introduction . 
He observed directly , however , that Mr. Ashly was taken aside by Sir Cummit Strong , who had been one of the dinner-guests at the Embassy , and , if he was not very much mistaken , he was himself pointed out to the stranger immediately after . 
Even if the baronet attributed his unsuccessfulness of suit to Paul 's hindrance , however , there could be no sufficient reason for calling a stranger 's attention so directly to the offender . 
By a movement among the company , a moment after , the gentlemen in that quarter of the room were drawn into a circle around the ambassadress , and , at the same instant that Paul discovered himself in close neighborhood to the stranger , her frank ladyship chose to remove the ceremony from between them by the exercise of her privilege as hostess . 
`` Mr. Ashly , Mr. Fane , '' and , for the moment , it appeared as if those chance-uttered words had removed the only obstacle to the fulfilment of the commands of the lovely Sybil . 
But there was a sudden check to the impulse with which Paul was about to follow up the first phrase of courtesy with an allusion to their mutual acquaintance , and her commission for the morrow evening . 
To the smile on his own lip there was no answer ! 
It was the Ashly look again which Paul felt in the passive-lidded turn of that reluctant eye upon him ! 
One of the reigning belles of the court of Florence fell into the line of Paul 's look at the moment , and to give her an arm for a waltz was the sudden diversion of purpose with which he covered the embarrassment of the smile so suddenly checked ; and , as he glided away to the measure of the enchanting music , leaving Mr. Ashly with an apparent recognition of their introduction which seemed only more careless than his own , he found time to struggle with the phantom that so strangely had re-found to re-haunt him . 
Why should the brother or his acquaintance outlast , to-night , in Paul 's mind , a single turn of the waltz with that titled beauty upon his arm ? 
The waltz over , and the conspicuous countess and her bouquet taking breath together at the head of the room , Paul took advantage of the approach of an admirer or two , and made his escape from the glaring rooms to the fresh air of one of the balconies over the garden . 
He was joined here by Tetherly , after a few minutes . 
`` This is diplomatic air , my dear fellow , '' he said ; `` but we are not all born to it ! 
`` Then , perhaps the reason for your reserve will explain the manner of the gentleman , said Paul , `` for his evident unwillingness to accept of her ladyship 's courtesy prevented my even speaking to him of Miss Paleford -- the only use I had for his acquaintance , you know . '' 
asked Paul , with a smile . 
`` Thanks , for your championship , '' said Paul ; `` but of what shape was Mr. Ashly 's rejoinder . '' 
`` Now we come to your mistake , my dear Fane ! 
asked Paul , with a laugh . 
But , '' added Paul , after a moment , `` even such a dull abuser may be listened to by refined ears . 
Paul balanced for an instant the unconfessed secret that gave the eye of that passing stranger its caprice of power , but despairing of making it understood , or , more probably , dreading the self-ridicule that might follow his bringing it from the shadow of his own mind fairly to the light , he let the remark pass in silence . 
Miss Paleford 's exceeding beauty had come under discussion , and , by way of preparing the ground for introduction to Paul and the coming excursion , he had alluded to him as a friend of Colonel Paleford 's , but in a general mention of the Americans at Florence . 
Tetherly had waited for the stormy baronet to give him an opportunity to take his friend 's part ; but at the height of his unaccountable tirade , he had observed the ambasador rising from the table ; and so Mr. Ashly had gone into the drawing-room with rather one-sided impressions of Mr. Fane 's desirableness as an acquaintance . 
`` I am sorry I do not looka refutation of the baronet 's slanders or disparagements , '' said Paul , still writhing under the infliction of the slight by that eye of mysterious power ; `` but there is at least an error or so , that may be corrected , and about this I will call on you in the morning . 
And , taking his friend 's arm into the drawing room , Paul left him with a lady of their mutual acquaintance , and made his own way back to his own busy thought-world at home . 
Come , eat a roll , my dear Paul , if only for bread-and-butter corroboration that I have you back again . '' 
Blivins and Paul had taken their place at one of the marble tables on the sidewalk in front of the café , and , with dozens of artists and travellers , they were having their morning meal served to them in the street . 
`` I see Tetherly coming yonder , '' said Paul , `` and he has been doing an errand for me this morning , about which I wish to have a chat with him alone . 
`` Pardon me , if I refresh the gift of speech with a cup of coffee , '' said he , taking Bosh 's vacated chair and giving Paul 's hand a shake with the two fingers he had to spare from his stick , `` though my exhaustion is not far from what I have said . 
It 's what I have n't saidthat has used me up , my dear Fane ? 
asked Paul , as the beckoned Botega held high his silver pots , and poured the hot milk and the coffee in two well-aimed cataracts at the cup . '' 
`` I should fail to make you understand , '' said Paul , after a moment 's hesitation ; `` for I am not sure that I understand it altogether myself -- how it is that I look to that man 's cold grey eye for recognition of my quality as a gentleman . 
Paul 's eyes dropped upon the table , as if , from thinking aloud , he had fallen into a reverie . 
interrupted Paul , `` I have seen but one Mr. Ashly , and I begin to doubt whether I ever shall see another . 
In another half-hour Paul was on his way to the Casa G -- , and , as his vetturinotook a more thoughtful pace , commencing the ascent from the bank of the Arno into the hills , his mood and the glorious completeness and contentment of the forenoon seemed scarce in harmony . 
There was a gay birth-day celebration before him , and a hearty welcome to it ; but the reaction of a trying and eventful week was on his spirits -- a week which had been passed in the care for what society would call his `` honor , '' but the memory of which , he found , was not to be given over like a carelessly-turned leaf to the past . 
The refusal of the English baronet to be put courteously right , had driven Paul to seek vindication by the detestable extremity of the duel , and , with Tetherly 's counsel and service , the hard-wrung reparation had been ample enough -- but the conscience to which he had been educated was not at ease with his pride . 
To the subdued manner and the languid eye which Paul brought to the festivity , there was the instant response of a twofold tenderness of reception by its lovely queen . 
Prepared to find fault with him for his non-compliance with her written request , and his since unexplained long absence , the beautiful Sybil felt , at the very first sight of his saddened features , that her thought of reproach had been unjust to him . 
The lingering and kindly pressure of her hand , and the softened tone of her inquiries as she welcomed him back , expressed this to him with a charm for which his depressed spirits had prepared the want and the welcome . 
Made lighter-hearted by it for the moment , he did not ask himself why the soft smile of that faultlessly moulded mouth seemed less in need of a certain expressional sweetness than ever before ! 
Paul had noticed that this gentleman , arrived before him , stood leaning leisurely against the porch of the casa , watching every movement of the lovely Sybil , and scarce attending at all to Mrs. Paleford , who talked to him from her easy-chair near by . 
Paul felt that he was more scrutinized than he would otherwise have been , and was so far pleased that he was sure , now , of commanding at least the attention of Mr. Ashly . 
That Sybil might have awakened a tender interest in the new visitor -LRB- who now first saw her since her childhood -RRB- , was a natural possibility , which , strange to say , had not before occurred to Paul , and he saw in it the sudden prospect of a level upon which he and Mr. Ashly would more fairly meet . 
`` I think you said you knew Mr. Fane , '' said Mrs. Paleford to her half-abstracted neighbor , as Paul paid his respects to her , after leaving Sybil . 
Both gentlemen bowed a recognition , and Paul endeavored , as before , to measure the indifference of his address by the stranger 's ; though he could but perceive that , with no relaxation of distant coldness , there was , still , a certain non-withdrawal of the look that met his own -- differing , thereby , from the reluctant half glance at their previous introduction -- which he took to be proof of the effect of his friend Tetherly 's errand . 
But as the breakfast gaieties went on , Paul found himself again balancing one of those embarrassing choices of conduct , in the light shadings of which , visible only to himself , rather than in any tangible trial or adventure , seemed to lie the shaping of his destiny . 
To his quick eyes it became soon evident that the white dress moving so actively about , carried with it the completely absorbed interest and attention of Mr. Ashly . 
On easy terms of acquaintance with most of the company present , Paul was of course at liberty to bestow his time and attention in more than one way , acceptably . 
He needed not to see , unless he pleased , that there was a continual opportunity to be the aid and attendant of the active Sybil -- sharing her services gaily when occasion required , and meantime excusably lingering near her and breathing the spell of her charming presence . 
But it became clear enough to Paul , at the same time , as the morning wore on , that just the portion which he might thus relinquish of the smiles and near society of the fair Sybil , would fall to the lot of Mr. Ashly . 
Paul could not but understand that Mr. Ashly was what the world would consider a very desirable `` match , '' and -LRB- where that point was any way brought in question -RRB- a man to be given way to . 
But such magnanimity , just now , on Paul 's part , was not to be altogether spontaneous . 
He did not feel sufficiently kindly , or even sufficiently indifferent , to Mr. Ashly , to yield the path without summons -- before he should be seen , indeed , to stand at all in the way . 
Tothe reader who is keeping in view the key to our story -- that it portrays only the vanishing and usually overlooked shades of the coloring of a destiny -LRB- the `` parts of a life yet untold '' -RRB- -- it will not seem strange that we dwell thus principally on what was but a hidden and unconfessed thought of Paul 's mind during this birth-day breakfast . 
But , while Paul felt all this with the others , and was busy laying away in his memory its many artistic contrasts and combinations , the haunting spectre-thought in the background of his mind was still visible . 
Trifling as it might have been , to all present , and improbable as the existence of such a thought would have seemed to her who believed herself -LRB- for him , at least -RRB- , the sole magnet of the hour , it still had its perpetual place , and acted , with more or less influence , upon his every look and movement . 
The movement , of course , involved some new arrangements , for which the fair Sybil must call upon her aids ; and Paul saw immediately , that , in the joint attendance which would thus fall upon him and Mr. Ashly , there would be a familiar contact with that gentleman , which would throw light enough for his own quick eyes upon his secret point of curiosity . 
`` Mr. Fane ! 
Paul stepped promptly forward , and , with a slight inclination of the head , to express his consent to the proposed partnership , laid his hand upon the tray . 
With a single glance at Paul -LRB- but no word of courtesy or other sign of willing fellowship with him in the lady 's service -RRB- he then hurriedly recovered as if from a delay that had grown awkward , lifted his part of the burthen and walked on . 
Now , while there was nothing in this at which Paul could reasonably take offence -- no proffer of his own rejected , no advance of his own repelled -- there was still enough in that look of an instant , and the trifling action that accompanied it , to decide , incontrovertibly , for him , the visionary uncertainty at his heart . 
Circumstances had combined to present him fairly and fully to the fatal eye in which lay the power of pronouncing what was his grade in nature ; and by the unprompted instinct of that eye , he had been looked down upon as inferior . 
The disparagement of his quality by the same tribunal once before -- the sister 's cold eye , in which resided the same power -- was thus confirmed . 
Even as they walked , now , side by side -- through the vibrations of the senseless burthen borne between his and Mr. Ashly 's united grasp -- there passed , it seemed to him , a magnetism of rejection and depreciation . 
He was denied to be of the world 's finer clay . 
The moss-covered stones of the old well were not reached , before the gates of his heart closed upon the admitted secret , so long held at arms ' - length , and like a barbed arrow , it was shut in to rankle in his pride . 
And it would have been difficult for Mr. Ashly not to see that the conjuror of this fresh spell of gaiety was Mr. Fane . 
In the confident aptness of his attendance upon Miss Paleford , his ready tact of courtesy , his respectful but eager promptness , his abandonment altogether to the mirth and impulse of the moment , it was evident that he was exercising a natural gift of becoming the ruling spirit of the hour . 
Whatever might be Mr. Ashly 's opinion as to its assumption or forwardness , it was undeniably successful in superseding and throwing into the shade his own dignity and reserve ; and he could not but see , also , that it sat exceedingly well upon Mr. Fane . 
But , for Sybil , there was a magnetism , in this change of Paul 's manner , which reached farther . 
Exhilarated as she might easily have been with such magic anticipation of her wants , such skillful service , and such aid of herself as a centre to shine and diffuse brightness to her circle of guests , there was a contrast in it all , which was alone visible to her , and which stirred a thoughtfulness deeper than any exhilaration was likely to have thrown its light She had but vaguely realized , before , what was wanting in Paul 's manner to her . 
With all the charm she had secretly thought to possess over him , there was a reserved depth in his heart , which his manner , hitherto , in some inexplicable way , assured her she did not reach . 
Without fairly reasoning upon it -- dismissing it , indeed , with some easily found excuse as often as it presented itself -- she had been , still , perseveringly haunted by this uncertainty of her power over him . 
There was an entireness of purpose in every look , word , and action -- a welcome to that and more -- which was new in Paul 's manner . 
But , in thus playing the lover for the first time to this beautiful girl , Paul was madly unaware both of the character of his motive , and of the extent to which he was successful . 
His apparent coolness and self-possession might have made him seem more than usually conscious of what responsibility he was incurring ; yet these were but the outer workings of an inner tumult that , in its present first waking , was wholly ungovernable . 
The power of concentration that was his leading quality of mind -- enabling him now , as it did , to bend every faculty with almost unnatural aptitude and quickness to the accomplishment of his object -- was , for the present , but a withdrawal of all light from conscience and motive . 
The slight which his visionary sensibility had received from Mr. Ashly forced the long-gathered darkness of the cloud in his mind to a lightning point . 
He had been pronounced of coarser clay -- and by any possible assertion of a superiority of his own he must lessen the contempt of that verdict ! 
With his stung and turbulent feeling he did not stop to ask himself why this doom -LRB- a doom to which he had so strangely and unresistingly assented -RRB- should be revenged upon the one who had unconsciously pronounced it ; nor did he realize , as he certainly would have done , with time for reflection , how the retaliatory exercise of a momentary mastery over his censor -- staking all , to win , for an hour of resentful rivalry , the preference of the young heart aspired to by the other -- was , in its possible injury to the best hopes of that young heart , at least , wanton and unworthy . 
Colonel Paleford himself had watched with mingled feelings the more thoughtful and assured contentment of his daughter 's manner , and her complete absorption in Paul 's every look and word . 
But , to the exhilarating liveliness with which Paul -- still in untiring spirits -- was successfully giving the tone to the conversation at the tea-table , there was presently an interruption . 
Paul alone was in the secret of what that box contained . 
It was a copy of Sybil 's portrait , taken from the study of the group of three , drawn from memory , on which he had spent such careful elaboration . 
Wholly unsuspected to be the artist , even by Sybil herself , Paul 's conversation -- -LRB- between the awkwardness of giving an opinion of his own work , and the necessity of still playing a leading part while listening for the criticisms and watching for the first impressions he so wished to store away in his memory -RRB- -- became a matter of some embarrassment . 
Paul mentally thanked him for that much . 
It was a negative approval of one of his chief aims in the design . 
Paul thanked the mother in his heart for what , to him , was very sweet praise of his picture . 
`` It is a fine piece of work , '' said the English ambassador , who had scrutinized it very carefully through his glass -- `` a masterly drawing , I think , if only for what it has left undone . 
Standing a little apart from the company , meantime with Sybil left to his more especial attention , Paul was thoughtfully treasuring up the last very precious commendation of his drawing , when the fair original herself , somewhat overpowered with the discussion of her beauty , turned to him with a criticism for his ear alone . 
Paul made an evasive reply ; but , in that chance remark was expressed the difficulty he had found in the picture -- the want , indeed , which there was for him in the magnetism and character of Miss Paleford . 
It explained where he had departed from the likeness , and why he had been compelled to make the expression rather what it might have been than what it was . 
But , though he treasured and remembered these few significant words of hers , his attention was awakened the next moment , by what was far more a surprise . 
The conversation he had addressed to him , from time to time , had but partially withdrawn him from his still persevering and unequal contest with Paul , however , till , on the appearance of the picture , he became in that entirely and abstractedly absorbed . 
was the question from Colonel Paleford which had arrested Paul 's ear , and made him a listener to the reply , so wholly unexpected . 
`` I should like very much to know the artist , '' he said , with the slow enunciation of one thinking aloud . 
-LRB- Paul began to feel that what he had tried to believe of Miss Paleford 's character of mind , and painted accordingly , was , to her more real lover , a full faith . -RRB- 
-LRB- Could Paul believe his ears ? 
Was the utterer of these words the man from whom he thought he had received unpardonable contempt ? 
-- could he forgive himself for the revenge he had taken for what was now so evidently but a passing impression of himself , acted upon with no knowledge of his inner and better nature ? -RRB- 
The movement was a signal for dispersion , however , and Paul , with scarce self-command enough left under this new reaction , to make a farewell consistent at all with his doings for the day , said adieu under cover of the general stir , and took his way , with the thickening twilight , toward town . 
He needed solitude . 
He saw life getting tangled before him ; and , to be at peace with himself again , there was much of what he had lately done that he must mourn over and undo . 
The leaves clung with less constancy to the trees , and Paul seemed to adhere with less and less flourishing perpetuity of vegetation to his faithful Bosh . 
From passing every day , and the whole day , at the Blivins studio , Paul was now but an occasional visitor there -- his work at that neglected easel on the other side of the room , indeed , becoming daily more uncertain and brief . 
If it had been only that Paul was growing idle , or had more studying to do at the Galleries , or if , for any reason but the apparently real one , he was now bestowing less time and talk on his old chum and crony , the consolation might have been easier to find . 
Upon this new intimacy and its peculiar attraction , Paul was , somehow , curiously incommunicative . 
He not only would not introduce Blivins to his friend the sculptor , but , in their still daily conversations at their common lodgings , he could not be hinted into a discussion of his style of genius and works , nor into any description of his person and manners . 
That his name was `` Signor Valerio , '' and that he was the favorite student of old Secchi the copyist , was all that the reluctant Paul seemed willing to communicate ; and this to one from whom he never before had a secret ! 
Paul 's intimacy with the Princess -LRB- Signor Valerio -RRB- had taken a new character from the moment of his confessing himself an artist . 
The privacy with which both she and Paul were devoting life to the pursuit of art , while apparently interested only in the gaieties of a court , made a common bond of sympathy ; and , with an inquiry into his working habits , it was very natural that she should propose to place an easel for him where she could share his artistic hours , in her own well-lighted and luxurious studio . 
That there was any reason why those hours of inspired industry -- apparently thrown away on his countryman Blivins , as far as companionship went -- should not be linked with her own daily life , in a retreat thus hidden from the world , was a doubt not likely to occur to the Princess , with her habitual defiance of appearances . 
It was not till the coming on of the summer that the Palefords had taken their departure -LRB- the invalid mother of Sybil ordered by the physician to the Baths of Lucca -RRB- ; and this , with the return of Mr. Ashly to England , had left Paul , for the first time , at full leisure , and with interest and thought to spare , for the cultivation of a friendship . 
With time and sensibilities to dispose of , the studio of the gifted and high-born woman became more and more agreeable as a resort , and there was no alarm in Paul 's mind at the nature of the new intimacy thus commencing . 
Some indirect light is thrown , upon Paul 's experience in the matter , by the following passage from one of his letters to his mother : -- * * * The path of Art which , in glowing and sanguine moments , I mark out for myself as peculiarly my own , becomes very indistinct under depression and discouragement . 
* * * As our chapter was going on to say -LRB- before this letter 's occurring to us as throwing some light on the character of Paul 's new friendship -RRB- , there was a sudden suspension of the neglect about which Blivins had grown disconsolate . 
The pacified Bosh would not have liked to know , however , why that same Signor Valerio was under the necessity of dispensing with Paul 's society for a while ! 
In the course of some conversation on the subject of models , the princess had spoken of the difficulty she found in the coarseness of the forms of the Italian lower classes ; and , with Paul 's incidental mention of the slighter and more graceful American type of female beauty , Miss Firkin 's defeated ambition -LRB- as to her portrait and its justice to her figure -RRB- had been naturally alluded to . 
Paul , since the discomfiture and departure of the fortune-hunting and dinner-seeking baronet , had become a great favorite with the Firkins . 
It was on the days for these tête-à-têtesittings that Paul was of course excluded from the princess 's studio , and returned , as we have already mentioned , to his friend Blivins ; and as the only eye-witness to give us an account of what took place in his absence is the fair sitter herself , we will borrow what she is willing to tell of it from one of her confidential letters . 
Of course you love it more because it has lately seen me ; though , when Mr. Fane happened to mention Europe 's getting the first call from the sun and moon , Pa was quite disgusted with the whole affair . 
He said the Declaration of Independence ought to have arranged that our glorious Republic should have the `` first cut '' of daylight and everything else . 
But , talking of Mr. Fane and me , Kitty , what do you think of this charming man 's having managed to gratify my little pet wickedness of a wish , after all ? 
My sorrows on this point touched the heart of Mr. Fane . 
He has an artist 's eye , and had observed my `` proportions , '' -LRB- such a nice , useful word , proportions ! -RRB- 
and not wishing me to be the `` full many a flower that 's born to blush unseen , '' he set about contriving how I shouldbe seen -- in marble , which is not expected to blush , you know ! 
But -LRB- not to keep you longer in suspense -RRB- it appeared that Mr. Fane had a friend whose profession was sculpture , and who , when at work , was as like a naughty man as possible ; but who had only to undress to be a lady ! 
So Mr. Fane assured us on his honor -- though mamma had seen boys with smooth faces , and would trust no apparent young man to be left alone with my `` proportions , '' till she had first put her two good Ohio eyes upon him . 
She watched him as he walked round , and saw him sit down and get up ; and heard him speak , and looked at his chin and under his hat -- and , finally , she was content to go away , with Mr. Fane , and leave me alone with `` Signor Valerio . '' 
What she saw that convinced her , I have no idea , for , to my eyes , it was exactly as any slender young man would begin by behaving and looking ; but there I was -- left unchaperoned with that suit of clothes and its contents -- and nothing but Mr. Fane 's `` solemn honor '' to satisfy methat it was a woman ! 
And -- to `` sit '' to him , presently ! 
As to Mr. Fane 's having seen it , the dear honest fellow loves him so much that he would not mind , I think , even if it had been the original ! 
I have a deal to learn myself , for I have not yet made out who or what this `` Signor Valerio '' is , or how she and Mr. Fane happen to be so very well acquainted . 
Ofanother new thread that had been strangely braided into Paul 's web of tangled life , during this month of October , we must unravel the windings a little . 
It was not that Paul meant to maintain his incognitobeyond the first surprise ; but the apt occasion for confessing himself the painter had not come , amid the hurry and embarrassments of leave-taking ; and as , among the friendly commissions given him to do in their absence , one was , to look around upon the walls of the various studios and find other works by which to identify this unknown pencil , a continuance of the mystification , built upon his imaginary adventures in search of it , became an amusing spice for his correspondence . 
In reply to one of Paul 's letters , in which he had hinted at coming upon some traces of the unknown , Colonel Paleford had somewhat enlarged his commission . 
The Colonel 's letter enclosed a note of introduction for the artist -LRB- the name left in blank -RRB- to Miss Winifred Ashly ; and the new request to Paul was , that he would take some additional pains to find the said artist , deliver to him the instructions with the note , and inform him that the lady-subject for his pencil was already arrived and at the Hotel Europa . 
Paul 's first impulse was to confess to the authorship of the sketch of Sybil , and put an end to the mystification at once , by the return of Mr. Ashly 's introductory note . 
The filling up of the blank in the note of introduction , the morning after the travesty was resolved upon , cost Paul a puzzled twirl or two of his finger . 
It was , at last , fairly written , however -- Evenden -- the association with his simplest and most honest of friends seeming to serve as the apology demanded by his conscience for the assumption of a fictitious name . 
And with a courage that , for several reasons , required the bracing of a strong will , `` Mr. Evenden , '' at an early calling hour , sent up his card and note of introduction to Miss Ashly . 
The lady whom Paul was presently to see -LRB- we will make use of his momentary delay in the ante-room to inform the reader -RRB- was the maiden aunt of the two of the name who have already taken part in our story -- the only sister of Mr. Ashly , their father . 
With the announcement that Miss Ashly would receive him , Paul followed the servant , and was ushered into the presence of a tall lady in mourning -- the light of the room so subdued , however , that he could distinguish only the general outline of her features . 
Unable to decide , at first , therefore , whether he was sitting for his own picture as well as she for hers -- whether or no it was the dreaded look of an Ashly that was now bent upon him -- his anticipations of embarrassment naturally gave place to his habitual ease of manner . 
Her voice made him formal , however . 
`` Now and here , '' said Paul , who had anticipated her probable wishes for promptness in the matter ; `` a servant is below with my drawing-board and easel , and if you will allow me to ring your bell and order them up , we can commence at once . 
But with the re-appearance of that tall figure , in the full light with which the un-shuttered windows had flooded the room in her absence , Paul did not resume his previous readiness for his task . 
By his first clear look at her now undisguised features , the lamp of genius within him seemed suddenly extinguished ! 
Yet she had even more beauty than he had supposed . 
But the Ashly eye was there , with its indescribable superiority , cold , fastidious , disdainful ; and , under its steady look , Paul felt his powers as an artist -- the evasive ideality of conception and the subtle dexterity of hand -- palsied as by a spell . 
An hour passed -- and another -- and they were hours of failure and vain effort , as to his work . 
She sat before him , and he had an artist 's privilege to gaze upon her face and analyze it . 
It seemed to him as if it were the very face from which he had received the look that turned the whole current of his life , so strong was the likeness . 
He sketched and erased , making little or no progress , even in completing the outline ; and pausing as long between the touches of his pencil as was possible without exciting her attention . 
To her inquiries from time to time as to his success , he pleaded artistic difficulties , changes of design in the pose , or of conception in the expression and character . 
Paul had none but mechanical powers to bring to his work -- no inspiration and no caprices of thought or handling -- but he had the dogged industry of an iron will , and as much skill of pencil as had become habitual ; and , with these , there was necessarily a progress in the portrait . 
It approached a likeness ; and Miss Ashly was apparently as content with it as she had expected to be , praising it more than Paul knew it deserved -- but another solution of his secret and visionary problem was meantime working out ; and while he meant that this should be watched to its extremest development , the intention to finally abandon his picture , as a task he could not complete to his liking , grew stronger and stronger . 
With the close of the third day 's sitting , Paul turned from the steps of the hotel , for a solitary stroll in the Ducal Gardens . 
He had a thought of discontent with which he wished to be alone . 
The three long and favorable opportunities of which he had now fully availed himself -- the interviews with Miss Ashly under circumstances best calculated to test fully the question at his heart -- had confirmed his humiliation once more . 
As an artist , known to her only by his manners and his introduction , he had stood again before the tribunal of that cold grey eye ; and , this time with complete impartiality of position . 
If odds there were , in the scale , they were in his favor . 
Yet , up to the closing of the door , on that day 's long interview , he had never , for one minute , been acknowledged as an equal . 
With the best courtliness he could command , in his own manners , his best tact of address , and a watchfulness too nervously awake to be mistaken as to the effect , he had tried his magnetism of presence . 
There was nothing to prevent its being felt and acknowledged , as the presence of a gentleman in her own rank in life . 
The morning of the fourth sitting found Paul on his way to the Hotel Europa -- but with no intention of resuming his work . 
His errand , now , was merely to gather up his materials and take a polite leave of Miss Ashly , with , perhaps , a passing explanation , if necessary , as to the artistic difficulties he had found , in obtaining a likeness , and consequent discouragement and abandonment of it . 
His mortification was already given over to the past ; for , with the intensity of concentration which was his leading quality of mind , trouble was speedily plummeted , and , as he crossed the bridge of the Arno , he was thinking less of the spoiled picture and his bitter lesson , than of work in which he could complete his forgetfulness of it , and which he should hurry back to resume at his own easel . 
Arriving at the hotel , and impatient of delay , he did not send up his name ; but , presuming that he was expected , according to engagement , he passed on , at once , to the drawing-room ; and a servant chancing to be coming out at the moment , the door was thrown open , and he entered , unannounced . 
An apology for intrusion was just coming to his lips -LRB- for Miss Ashly was at the piano , and the low soft air which she was playing seemed to be so interrupted by the noise of the door closing behind him that he expected her momently to turn -RRB- , when his movement was arrested by the sweetness of the melody . 
He stood for an instant -- observing , at the same time , that the player was wholly unconscious of his entrance -- but , as he listened to the music , willing to prolong his knowledge of what seemed to him unusual skill upon the instrument , another call was suddenly made upon his attention . 
Paul glanced incidentally at the upturned face -- but his gaze suddenly became fixed ! 
Was this the same face with which he had become familiar ? 
Did that mirror reflect truly the face upon which he had spent weary days of study , and , with the deeper look into which -LRB- as he believed -RRB- he had but found confirmation of his dislike ? 
Paul took a step forward . 
Paul thought no more of abandoning his picture . 
But Paul mentally closed his eyes to the Miss Ashly now preparing for her morning 's unwilling occupation ; and saying little as she took her accustomed place , hurried only to prepare his pencils , erase what he had previously drawn , and begin anew . 
Paul ` slabor upon the portrait he had been ready to abandon , was by no means lost . 
His obstinate industry for three days had supplied the correctness and relativeness of proportion without which the most inspired picture would be incomplete . 
He did not propose to change the position of the figure or the aspect of the head and features . 
The upturned face , which he had seen in the mirror , though it might have formed a beautiful conception for a St. Cecilia , would have seemed affected , to English eyes , as a literal portrait . 
And Paul 's haunting phantom was forgotten as he pursued his task on this fourth morning . 
Yet he might well have remembered it , but for his knowledge of a look deeper than the exterior features from which he drew . 
Miss Ashly had been interrupted at her impassioned music -- called away from the happiness of a pleasanter world -- for the business of this reluctant hour ; and the cold grey eye , if he had stopped at its forbidding and outer threshold of expression , would have , more than before , seemed to shrink from his companionship . 
But , in the far-reaching enthusiasm with which he struggled to bring to light the once-seen beauty beyond , he forgot the pride that was nearer ; and what that deeper nature 's estimate of his own quality of clay might be , was a question left unasked , and unthought of , by his present glowing imagination . 
`` Thanks to boththe Misses Ashly , '' replied Paul , bowing ceremoniously as if to two persons ; `` though it is not often that the slighted lady gives way with so good a grace to her rival ! '' 
His sitter seemed mystified , but waited silently , with a very confiding look of inquiry , for an explanation . '' 
`` I fear I shall scarce make you understand , '' continued Paul , `` that I was mistakenly employed for three days upon the portrait of another Miss Ashly -- one , at least , with a very different face , from this now upon my easel . 
Paul balanced , in his mind , for a moment , whether he was well acquainted enough , yet , with the lady , to make a frank avowal of his first impression -- tempting as was the opportunity it might give for a question as to the Ashly look . 
But he deferred it . 
`` Why , I suppose , '' he said , evading the personality by a general remark , `` that , to every character of any depth or variety , there is an inner as well as an outer nature -- the character being none the less estimable because these are apparently very different . 
`` That would be true , '' said Paul , continuing to apologize to her for herself , `` if the bad world we live in gave a frank and full response to this whole expression . 
`` Why , chance -LRB- as we have found to-day -RRB- may reveal the secret , '' he argued , `` even if to the quicker sense that could best appreciate it , there be no betrayal of the hidden nature , by sympathy or physiognomy . 
`` And , when portrayed , it should certainly be by one who can get at that same inner likeness , '' she added , smiling on Paul very genially , `` though , by the way , as I have not seen your work of this morning , I do not know whether my own inner countenance , as you are pleased to consider it , is preferable to the outer and usual one . 
`` No , '' said Paul , `` for , curiously enough , we are better judges of any face than of our own . 
But , '' added Paul , rising from his work and setting back his easel , `` it is time to come to the ` improvement ' of my long sermon . 
Miss Ashly looked silently on the sketch , while Paul busied himself with laying away his materials for the day . 
But while she saw that it differed from her face as she knew it in the glass , there was still the likeness of which he had discoursed to her so artistically -- the likeness of what she feltto be herself -- and this grew upon her as she gazed . 
And it grew more and more wonderful to her how he should have seen what was there portrayed . 
`` I shall leave you alone with your other self , '' said Paul , approaching to take his leave ; `` for I prefer not to hear your criticism on my sketch till you have compared it with the original -- an original which it will require solitude to see truly . 
She held out her hand to him with a smile instead of a reply , and , in the cordial pressure which he received from those delicate fingers , he found approval enough for his picture , without words . 
And with the glow of successful genius -- of hard-won triumph over obstacles and embarrassments -- Paul made his way , for the first time , content , from that place of trial , homewards , across the Arno . 
It was in a long and earnest conversation , preparatory to the next sitting , that the incident of the mirror was told -- explaining to Miss Ashly the mystery of Paul 's sudden change of conception as to her character and expression of face ; and , with some little entreaty on his part , music was now mingled in their morning 's interview , as a renewal of his inspiration . 
With this , and the peculiarity of Paul 's nature , which has been already explained -LRB- his disposition wholly to forget what impression he might himself make , when once interested to absorb the meaning or sweetness of another 's mind -RRB- , it is not wonderful that friendship grew apace . 
But these eight or ten days of constant and confiding intimacy had not passed without peril to Paul 's incognito.It was very evident that Miss Ashly 's curiosity , as to the history and circumstances of the young artist , increased with her friendship for him . 
Conversation without restraint , each day for hours , gave naturally many opportunities for allusions and leading remarks , and these , with the positive questions which good-breeding allowed from time to time , Paul parried , of course , as he best could , but with imminent risk of detection . 
Miss Ashly made arrangements for having it retouched , before she should take possession of it , on her return through Florence -LRB- for she modestly insisted that he had made it much too young for the portrait of an old maid , but Paul thought not -RRB- , and , after some delaying and deferring , she took her departure for Rome . 
The following letter , which Paul received from her , a fortnight after , will -LRB- with what we have narrated -RRB- explain the share she had in what forms the cobweb thread of our story -- the exorcising , through contact and more familiar knowledge , of the spell that had seemed so formidable to Paul 's self-appreciation , and which had fortunately taken definite shape , at his first starting in life , as the phantom of the Ashly eye . 
Paul ` sembarrassment , on receiving the letter from the stately spinster with the offer of her hand , was almost enough to counterbalance the triumph it chanced to contain , over his vampire thought of an Ashly . 
He became conscious , now , for the first time , how exclusively he had followed his own whim in the whole matter -- the subtle flattery of a happily idealized likeness having been thoughtlessly sustained by his equally flattering deference and conversation . 
He felt guilty . 
He would have made an individual sacrifice , and not a small one , to repair the wrong . 
But there were others interested , on both her side and his own , for whose sake he must decline the offer , while at the same time , he was not ready to reveal all the motives upon which he had acted . 
The portrait stood against the wall , and Paul sat before it with his writing materials prepared for an answer to the letter -- his heart fairly on trial before the calm and noble look which he had himself given to the features of Miss Ashly -- when , by the measured step on the stair , he recognized the approach of his friend Tetherly . 
Regretting , with his first thought , that his present trouble involved the secret of a lady , and so could not be submitted to the everready counsel and sympathy of his friend , he closed his portfolio , and was sitting unemployed before the portrait when Tetherly entered . 
`` Found at your devotions , I am ready to testify , '' he said , as he gave Paul his two fingers , and pointed with his stick at the drawing . 
asked Paul , without answering his question , but with his curiosity enlivened by praise so unqualified from one usually so fastidious . 
Paul felt that what he had most labored to copy with his pencil was thus put into language . 
interrupted his visitor , turning full upon him with a look of incredulous surprise ; `` rather too well for your character of an ` amateur artist , ' my dear Fane ! '' 
asked Paul , laughing heartily at the allusion to the quarrel out of which his friend had helped him ; `` but you have penetrated at once to the main-spring of the lady 's character , my dear Tetherly ! 
`` No , '' said Paul , `` for I had nearly finished her portrait , as I thought , before I saw it at all . 
And here Paul explained to his friend the circumstances which had brought Miss Ashly to him as a sitter , and gave him the details , for the first time , of the early passage in his own history , which was the key to his interest in the Ashly physiognomy . 
With the closing of the door upon him , Paul re-opened his portfolio to resume the interrupted task . 
But as he sat and turned over in his mind the match he had the ungrateful necessity of declining , it suddenly flashed upon him that there was a singular suitableness -- in age , taste , and character , and now by manifest predilection at first sight of her portrait -- between Miss Ashly and his friend . 
Itwas during the week that intervened between the dispatch of the foregoing letter and the return of Miss Ashly to Florence ; and Paul was using his privilege , for the morning , at the easel placed for him in the private studio of the Princess C . 
The hours waxed on , toward noon , and he was ostensibly busy with his pencil ; but he had gone there with a burden on his thoughts which was not to be unladen through his Art , and to give utterance to which , as yet , he had not found the apt first word required by his sensitiveness . 
With any mere embarrassment of distinctions in politeness , or question calling for more practised knowledge of the world , Paul had a reference both kindly and reliable in his friend Tetherly ; but he had received two letters , the previous evening , involving , between them , a point of feeling , such as only the heart of a woman could give counsel upon . 
`` I wish the pencil were as successful as its rival , '' replied Paul . 
`` And I must ask leave , '' he continued , turning from his drawing to come in front of the mouldingstand , `` while the model is still nominally unfinished , to flatter my chum Blivins with an introduction to it . 
`` Yet we are about to show you a higher model of one , '' said Paul , one of whose pent-up subjects was thus approached . 
inquired his friend , with a smile . 
The countenance of the princess assumed the look of truthful earnest which was so prompt to appear , at any call , keeping her eccentricities , as well as her rank and fashion , subject to the language of her genuine human heart ; and Paul , with his confidence fully responsive to the large , calm eyes bent upon him , proceeded to tell his story . 
With so melancholy an event for exchange of sympathy , the correspondence had both saddened and lessened , and Paul was looking for one of the colonel 's brief and friendly missives from the sick-room , when , to his great surprise , he received , from the invalid herself , a letter , evidently written at intervals , and forwarded at last without the knowledge of those around her . 
It was scarce legible , from the weakness with which the pen had been held , but Paul had conned well its broken periods , and he read thus to his thoughtful listener : Without dating my letter precisely from Spirit-land , I may almost claim a hearing from thence -- so nearly arrived thither that I begin to see with the unworldly eyes of that better existence , and finding something to look back and say , which you will first read probably , when I am already there . 
I am not sure , my dear Mr. Fane , that , in the fitness which I see in you , as the match which my heart requires for that faultless child , I have not given great weight to your genius . 
`` Have I said enough , dear Mr. Fane ? 
While this trembling hand can write it , The princess drew her hat more over her eyes , as Paul laid the letter on his knee , but there was a gleam of light upon their moist surface , which flashed out of the shadow . 
`` Which I fear it is not , '' said Paul , `` though , upon the possibility -LRB- if it were for Miss Paleford 's happiness -RRB- , I should be ready , of course , to stake all that is involved merely of my own . 
And Paul opened his mother 's letter , and read from the two concluding pages as follows : -- Mrs. Cleverly will remain for some time in Florence ; and , for you to have Mary Evenden there , in the midst of objects and associations of such common interest to you both , will , of course , be delightful . 
But , my dear Paul , a thought here takes shape , which has been to me , for some time , `` a shadow on the wall . '' 
Your secret devotion to Art was , to her , the life and presence of your second and inner nature ; and if this could have been found separately embodied from what others knew as my son Paul , I think your mere outward person would have been easily estranged from her thoughts . 
That which Mary loved in you is , more than before , your outward identity -- you are , much more completely and admirably , Paul the artist . 
The time of her absence from you has been passed in the studious heightening of the taste by which she appreciates your genius ; she will be as much readier than before to give her whole soul to Paul the artist , as he is worthier than before to be so absorbingly worshipped . 
Paul closed the letter from his mother , and placed it , with the one he had previously read , in the hand of the princess -- the two strangely co-incident appeals to his decision , upon which he so needed counsel -- but the conversation was not readily resumed . 
How would any likeness of you , for instance , resemble both Mr. Fane the attachéand my friend Paul the artist -- two very separate gentlemen , who have inspired , it appears , very different passions in two wholly unlike and separate ladies ! 
`` Yet , '' said Paul , with a still very abstracted air , `` I have not willingly concealed , either the man of society or the artist -- though it would appear that I am but one of these at a time . 
`` Possibly a very incorrect opinion on the part of Mrs Paleford , '' said Paul -LRB- contending , as he spoke , with his self-reproving memory of the birthday breakfast -RRB- , `` for , though chance circumstances may have given me a temporary favor in the young lady 's eyes , her ideal of me -LRB- as you just now said -RRB- is but a partial and imperfect one . 
asked his friend . 
`` The good taste of a refined education , undoubtedly , '' proceeded Paul , with the monotone of one thinking aloud ; `` she could scarce be her mother 's daughter without that . 
`` That Miss Sybil entertains for me partly the fancy or natural liking upon which girls oftenest marry , '' said Paul , `` I think very probable . 
`` But the contrary , at least , gives the means of trying other resources for happiness , '' insisted Paul . 
Paul gave the history of the rivalry at the birthday breakfast -LRB- narrated in a previous chapter -RRB- , but without confessing fully to the motive which had prompted his own successful playing of the lover . 
`` Pardon me , '' said his friend -LRB- as he concluded with the account of Mr. Ashly 's appreciation of the portrait -RRB- , `` pardon me , my dear Mr. Fane , but you seem to me , now , to have incurred a responsibility I had not before soen . 
replied Paul , somewhat perplexed , but giving voice to his secret hope of repairing his wrong to Mr. Ashly . 
there you express what offers a loophole of escape for you , '' assented his reproving listener ; `` though young ladies ' hearts are not very transferable commodities , especially by the holders themselves . 
Paul smiled , and balanced his pencil upon his finger for a moment or two of silence . 
`` I have had , '' he said at last , `` what most lovers have not -- a fair trial of my promised happiness . 
Paul pressed his hand upon his eyes , and forced back all his memory upon the days in his hidden studio at home . 
`` It may be an abstraction of a somewhat visionary boyhood , '' he thoughtfully went on to say , `` but , to me the most dream-craved sweetness of love , as well as its coldly measured best dignity and elevation , consists in its being inspired by the qualities of the mind only . 
`` It was the reasonableness of my happiness which made part of its charm , '' Paul pursued his confession by insisting . 
Intimate as you were , it is my impression that there is a Miss Evenden and a Mr. Fane who are yet to make each other 's acquaintance . 
Paul shook his head incredulously , while he smiled at the princess 's scepticism of what , to him , was like a religion . 
`` You must excuse me , '' she continued -LRB- moulding indolently upon her model as she gave vent to her speculations on the problem he had submitted to her -RRB- , `` but I think your coming renewal of intimacy , with your old playmate , a little critical . 
`` Love not often found , '' said Paul , musingly , as he strove to lay aside his own theory and adopt , for the sake of frank argument , that of his companion . 
interrupted Paul , deprccatingly . 
`` You make genius out to be naturally the most unhappy of lovers , '' said Paul , beginning to be amused with the generalizing that had digressed from his own more special troubles . 
`` Of which higher philosophy you , yourself , my dear princess , '' said Paul , with a low inclination of his head , `` are a charming proof and illustration . 
There was generous and kindly considerateness , as well as wisdom , in this thought of the princess 's ; and Paul took his leave , after gratefully accepting both the advice and its proffered aid . 
And to this eventful morrow he looked forward , for the remainder of the day , with thoughts of far less sadness and perplexity than before . 
Itwas not for several days , after the interview described in the last chapter , that Paul received , from one of the hotels upon the Arno , the expected message , announcing the arrival of his friends . 
The death of Mrs. Paleford had meantime occurred , as anticipated ; and , with the proffer of aid and sympathy which his intimacy with the family called upon him to make -- his reception of them on their return with the body to Florence , and his almost filial share in the melancholy arrangements and last offices to the dead -- the delay and its leisure had been timely , and the interval had been sufficiently en grossed with thought and feeling . 
He had followed the lost mother to the grave with an emotion which the two chief mourners -LRB- ignorant of the dying bequest that was now so heavy on his heart -RRB- could but little understand . 
Like the parting of a dark cloud , however , was the sudden gleam of light into his mind with the news that Mary Evenden had come ; and it was not difficult for one of his elastic temperament to throw all sad thoughts behind him as he hurried rapidly to the hotel where he was to see , once more , the face that had been dearest to him through years of romantic boyhood . 
It was not in Florence that he walked , as he made his way eagerly through the crowd . 
A memory of home glowed like a halo around him , shutting out all that was not filled with the presence of his mother 's voice and smile . 
On arriving at the hotel , Paul impatiently followed the waiter by whom he sent up his name , and a glimpse through the opening door showing him the well-known features of Mrs. Cleverly , he entered at the same moment that he was announced . 
A rush forward , and a kiss of respectful tenderness upon the held-out hand of the dear and kind matron , and he turned hurriedly to take Mary like a sister to his arms -- but the movement was suddenly paralysed , and , with an instant 's hesitation , a bow of ceremony took the place of the intended caress ! 
There were twoladies beside his old friend at the breakfast-table -- one of them Mary , but the other the Miss Ashly of his long-cherished dread -- the cold-eyed English girl who had first given the alarm to his boyish pride of nature ! 
said Mrs. Cleverly , thinking it necessary to reintroduce Paul , as she saw his hesitation . 
He relinquished the warm pressure of Mary 's hand which he now held in his own , and very formally renewed his salutation to the politely undisturbed lady . 
With the icy bar which her presence had so abruptly put upon his overflowing heart , conversation , even with Mary , was now stiffened to the formalities of courtesy . 
Mrs. Cleverly , during her short stay in London -LRB- it was afterwards explained to Paul -RRB- had fallen in with her old friends the Ashlys , and , with the pleasant accounts which they had been lately receiving from Florence , Miss Mildred expressed a desire to put herself under the convoy of the American party and join her aunt in Italy -- a proposition , of course , very readily acceded to . 
In their letters written on the way , this addition to their company had not been mentioned , however ; and thus , accidentally and without warning , Mary had brought with her the very barrier which mysteriously divided her from Paul at his departure for Europe ! 
Paul , when his first greetings were over , made a fourth at the table ; but , in spite of the glow of affectionate welcome at his heart , longing for expression , he was conscious of an irresistible influence upon his manners . 
He was the polished and indifferent attaché , even in questioning and listening to Mary Evenden alone . 
There was a presence at the table which no one else felt or understood , and to which he had been mysteriously subject , before , and was now subject , again . 
Miss Ashly had very quietly confessed to not remembering having met Mr. Fane ; and to her , for the first half hour , he was evidently but a stranger -- an American gentleman with whom she had no topic in common -- though one to whom she was bound to be civil , from his intimacy with her friends . 
At one of the rotations of politeness , however , by which it became due to the third lady that some remark should be addressed to her also , Paul alluded to the Palefords , and their bereavement . 
The mention of the mourning scenes in which he had taken part led to other matters in connection with the subject , and it soon became evident to Miss Ashly that Mr. Fane had a very minute intimacy of knowledge as to her old friends and their circumstances . 
Paul could not but notice , however , as he made some reference to the celebration of the birth-day , that his listener 's eagerness to hear something of her brother 's share in that festivity became very keen , and that her interest in Sybil was of an affectionate tenderness which betrayed , to his sharpened perception , a sympathy in the secret of a love . 
He was very sure , from an incidental remark or two , that young Ashly had taken his sister into his confidence , and it was encouraging to the hopes of Paul for the brother 's success , that there had evidently been no mention to her of himself , the rival of that day . 
With the account of the entertainments at the English embassy , and the many particulars relative to Colonel Paleford , and to her brother 's gaieties in Florence , it grew clearer every moment that the points of mutual interest between Miss Mildred and Mr. Fane were more numerous than was at first anticipated ; and the conversation at the breakfast-table , at last , was entirely given over to these two , so much the least acquainted . 
There was a little gratification of a love of mischief in the grave quietness with which Paul showed his confidential knowledge of Miss Winifred -- her plans of travel , her manner of passing her time , her recent impressions of Italy , her newest likings and dislikings , health , spirits , and other matters upon which her habitually reserved letters left her relatives rather annoyingly in the dark . 
`` By her last letter to me , '' said Paul , `` I am to expect her a week from to-day ; and , by the way , I was to engage for her the very apartments into which the landlord has chanced to put you . 
`` Pardon me , Mr. Fane ! '' 
Paul did not feel quite ready to give up the more agreeable indefiniteness of his position as a chance acquaintance of Miss Ashly 's . 
Paul rang for a servant , and , writing a line to Blivins upon a card , dispatched him for the crayon -- perseveringly addressing his conversation to his American friends , during the man 's absence , so as not to be embarrassed with further questions as to the unknown painter . 
`` You will excuse me , '' said Paul , closing all except one shutter , `` if , as an amateur artist myself , I do my friend the justice to arrange the windows artistically . 
`` Yes ; and I chanced to be consulted as to the poseof the head , '' Paul added , quietly , `` so I can arrange it for you with great precision ! '' 
And , setting a chair on the spot where , a few days before , had stood his easel , he placed the crayon in the exact light in which it had been drawn . 
It was Paul 's policy , of course , to show no more than a third person 's natural desire for the expression of her opinion , but it was with difficulty he could now conceal his eagerness of curiosity . 
Paul did not immediately remember that the picture was to impress mainly by the character of its resemblance to the original , and that his friends , having never seen Miss Winifred Ashly , could be judges only of its mechanical execution . 
He felt , somehow , a resentment at what seemed to him the inappreciative coldness of Mary 's remark . 
Paul asked , merely to cover , by an indifferent question , his eagerness to hear her talk more upon the subject . 
said Paul . 
`` Not at all untrulyflattered , '' proceeded Miss Ashly , seeing , evidently , with very much her brother 's eyes , and hitting , by this discriminating remark , the very edge of Paul 's demand for appreciation of his picture ; `` nothing is added to the original elements of the expression . 
That such delicious praise could be uttered by the lips he saw before him , was to Paul a surprise for which he could scarce credit his senses ! 
The indifference -- almost the scorn -- of her whom he had felt to be the coldest and proudest of her sex , changed to the very elixir of flattering appreciation ! 
He looked at Miss Ashly . 
The calm , grey eye , which had seemed so icy and distant , was now fixed softly and admiringly on his work -- the very arch of pride in that mouth so haughtily immovable was unbent to an expression of susceptibility and sweetness . 
`` I have seen your brother 's face when it had somewhat of the same character , '' said Paul , so bewildered that he scarce knew what he uttered . 
`` This , '' she said , opening and handing it to Paul , `` was taken by one of the first miniature painters of Paris , and we have thought it a good likeness of my brother . 
But a sudden thought entered Paul 's brain , as he heard these charming words , holding the miniature in his hand . 
`` Could you spare this little work of art , '' he asked , `` for the few days of your proposed visit to the Palefords ? 
she interrupted Paul by exclaiming ; `` pray take it to him , if you please , for it will show him exactly what I do not want , in his picture of me.In my dull face '' -LRB- she continued , smiling -RRB- `` he might not find it so easy to overcome the literalness of the Ashly features . '' 
echoed Paul . 
`` I should lose an invaluable opportunity , if I did not , '' she replied -LRB- as Mrs. Cleverly called to her to get ready for some shopping they were to do together before sight-seeing -RRB- , `` and , if you please , Mr. Fane , I will trouble you , further , with the arrangement of this matter . 
If you will express to him how delighted I am with my aunt 's portrait , and say that I will hold myself ready to sit at any time that suits his convenience , after my return from Colonel Paleford 's , I will really be very much obliged to you . '' 
Enchanted as he was with his success , thus far , Paul buried his eyes in the miniature as the ladies left the room -- his genius fully at work already on the conception with which it had inspired him . 
The color flushed into Paul 's face as he remembered that he was alone with Mary -- for the first time since so long a parting , and requiring to be reminded of it ! 
-- and with a confused vehemence , expressing rather more willingness than was quite natural , he sprang to his feet with an assent . 
Of mere information to exchange , there was quite sufficient to occupy the time -- precluding , at least , the risk against which was given the warning of his mother 's letter -- but , over and above the choice of topics , and with no approach to love-making any way likely or possible , there was still room for a sympathy of the most tender confidingness and frankness ; and this , inexplicably and mortifyingly , Paul felt to be wanting ! 
One vampire thought after another was struggled with , in the voiceless background of his mind , during that haunted walk . 
The chance disparagement of the work of his pencil by Mary , while another had so keenly appreciated it -- the presence of Miss Ashly with its unrevealable secret of influence -- the solemn bond resting upon him with the dying words of Sybil 's mother , and binding him not to love the unsuspecting creature at his side -- the plot , which he had framed with the princess to prolong or secure her sisterly indifference , and the policy that would now be necessary for his own conduct , with these sacred and opposing claims calling equally upon his most delicate honor -- these were phantoms present at his reunion with Mary , and not the less chilling in their influence upon the happiness of the hour , because her share in them must be untold . 
He felt reproached by every look from her soft eyes . 
In spite of every effort , he was conscious that he seemed , to her , abrupt and unlike himself . 
And , at her first expression of fatigue he was relieved , to turn once more toward the streets , where the novel objects of a strange city would preclude thought -- leaving , presently , at her room-door , the one whom , but a few hours before , he would have said he most wished to see , of all persons in the world , and -LRB- to his own astonishment as he realized it -RRB- , rejoicing to be alone . 
Paul 's friend the princess had kindly offered to present his two countrywomen , while the English minister was to present Miss Ashly ; and they were all here assembled , as the most convenient point of reunion , and were to have a cup of tea together before starting for the palace . 
The stiffness of the court costumes , seeming so out of place around a private tea-table , had something to do with it -- the English minister and Paul , of course , in their full diplomatic uniforms , and Mrs. Cleverly and the princess in an array of ornament unusual even for themselves . 
Of that spiritual elevation of beauty , which Paul had described so glowingly a few days before to the princess , and which his imagination had kept so long , as the cherished ideal by which all others were excluded from his heart , there was now scarce a trace ! 
Mary Evenden -- he was mortified and irritated to see -- looked even common-place and inferior . 
But , with every effort to shut at least the eyes of his taste and imagination , it was impossible not to see the contrast that was beside her . 
Sybil Paleford , from various incidental causes , had probably never before been so beautiful -- certainly , to Paul , had never seemed so miraculously supplied with all he had before thought possible as heightening additions to her beauty . 
The carriages were announced , and leave was to be taken of the one not included in the gay party ; and the actual resentment that Paul felt , at the disparagement contained in this picture of contrast , might have shown itself in his colder good-night and less cordial pressure of the hand -- but there was a keen observer on the watch . 
The princess , his friend and confidant , had seen the comparison , as well as he . 
She knew that , with the natural generosity of affection , he would seek to compensate to Mary for the chance wrong she was thus suffering , and that this , both as a tenderness to her and an undeserved slight to Sybil , would be a hindrance to their well-laid plans for present neutrality . 
Taking Paul by the arm , therefore , she became an inevitable interruption to anything but a formal good-night , while she prevented his very possible offering of that arm to Mary -- and -LRB- quite unconscious of the dramatic extent of the chaperonagewhich she was thus sharing with the princess -RRB- Mrs. Cleverly , in an eventful minute or two more , was on her way to the palace , with her party . 
To the imaginative sculptress , the web of destiny , thus being woven , had assumed quite the excitement of a romance ; but her sympathies had changed sides , since the morning over their work -- when Paul had made confession of his embarrassments . 
She had , at that time , felt more interested for his fate as connected with Miss Paleford -- thinking it the love with which , on a whole , he was likeliest to be happy . 
But , on the first day after the arrival of his friends , Paul had taken Mary to the studio of `` Signor Valerio , '' with full initiations into the secrets of the place ; and to the spells of Art which there had all their magic , and for which her whole life had so prepared her , he had delivered her over -- his own engrossing work at the other studio -LRB- according to the princess 's plan -RRB- being pleaded as his excuse for long mornings of absence . 
To the wild-flower American girl , the precious gem of character which so imitated her own was as natural as herself ; and , with the most confiding unconsciousness , she made herself as much at home in the studio of the high-born sculptress as she would have done in Paul 's attic with his mother . 
Paul was the first , from her own level of society , who had been admitted to the full knowledge of her artistic life ; but -LRB- of the other sex , and a citizen of the gay world which she strove to shut out -RRB- -- he was , of course , somewhat to be guarded against as a flatterer -- who might turn into a lover ; and , particularly as an admirer of her genius , whose admiration of beauty in statuary might be colored insensibly by passion . 
She commenced her first lesson , in moulding the clay , on the first day that Paul left her with `` Signor Valerio ; '' and , in the three or four long mornings that she had now passed in an atmosphere so exquisitely to her taste , there had been compressed almost the happiness of a life-time . 
The arrival and entreehad their usual routine of awkwardness for the inexperienced , and , in looking on at the presentation , Paul could not but see a second contrast very unfavorable to Mary in the quiet ease and self-possessed grace and dignity of Miss Ashly ; but , the ceremony over , he had thought to draw aside his embarrassed playmate and friend , and , stationed at some unobserved point of view , pass his evening in diverting her thoughts with comments on the scene and its characters . 
He made his way , accordingly , to the side where the presented guests fell back from the immediate neighborhood of the Grand Duke , and was about offering his arm to Mary . 
And , my dear Fane , '' she continued , in an under tone , as he made room for her , `` please , do not approach us again till the close of the ball . 
Paul discovered , presently , after a short fit of absent-mindedness , that he was in very close neighborhood to Miss Ashly . 
She smiled as his eyes met hers . 
`` You look very inconsolable , Mr. Fane ! '' 
`` Consolable , I assure you , '' said Paul , offering his arm very promptly , `` if I may be allowed to plead that the same barrier does not prevent my playing the happy shadow to Miss Ashly . '' 
`` I was just going to propose the same thing to you , in substance , '' she said , emphasizing the play of words upon his expression -- `` that is to say , I was wishing your company , and for more substantial reasons than either making you happy as a shadow , or securing attention to myself . 
Paul expressed his assent simply by a grave earnestness of look and movement , as he led the way to a promenade through the less crowded rooms . 
He was , for the moment , uncertain of his position . 
Miss Ashly had been three or four days at Casa G -- , and he did not know how much more she had learned , in that time , of his intimacy with the family . 
He was not even certain , as yet , whether they had chanced to mention to her what they themselves knew -- who it was that had painted the portraits of Miss Paleford and Miss Winifred . 
Her first remark relieved him upon this latter point , however . 
Paul drew a breath of relief . 
It was important for the completeness of the secret experiment of his life -- -LRB- the experiment he shamed to own , which had been to him of keener zest , thus far , than the trials of love or genius -RRB- -- that , to Miss Ashly 's confidence , and to whatever degree of intimacy she was likely to allow upon a common ground of acquaintance , he should first try his claim as a gentleman . 
Itwas evidently with her mind very much upon something else , that Miss Ashly pursued the conversation , as she and Paul lingered along by the pedestals of the statues , or stopped to look at one and another of the `` old masters '' that lined the walls . 
`` Did I understand you , '' she said , at last , reverting to the subject which Paul had skillfully digressed from , `` that this artist friend of yours speaks English ? '' 
`` It is his native language , '' said Paul , very safely . 
Paul was staggered . 
Here was a direct summons to surrender his secret ! 
He felt the betraying blood flush into his temples , but presently made half a confession , thinking it might be just possible that she would not jump to the conclusion at once . 
`` Why , to tell the truth , he is a former acquaintance of yours , '' he said , `` but I was not to tell you his name . 
Miss Ashly 's answer poured oil upon the long-hidden irritation at Paul 's heart ! 
The contradiction to all this , which had stuck in Paul 's memory like the barb of an arrow -- -LRB- her own lack of recognition of that same artist onceand complete forgetfulness of him now -RRB- -- was not enough to spoil the sweetness of her words . 
`` A myth of consolation very sweet to believe in , '' murmured Paul . 
`` And that reminds me of the request I was intending to make of you , Mr. Fane , '' said Miss Ashly , dropping his arm and taking a seat for a tête-à-tête -- `` a request which I will preface with the apology that Colonel Paleford told me you had more influence than any one else in the matter it refers to . '' 
`` My friend , the colonel , honors me , '' said Paul , `` whatever the matter be -- though I wonder '' -- He hesitated , for -LRB- in his surprise at Colonel Paleford 's frankness in confessing , as well as sagacity in divining that influence -RRB- , he was about to betray his anticipation of what it would be more delicate for Miss Ashly to speak of first . 
But , '' she added , with a smile , after an instant 's hesitation , remembering the discovery I had already made , of your power of magnetizing -- -LRB- my Aunt Winnie 's familiar confidence being a very wonderful conquest , I assure you , Mr. Fane ! -RRB- 
-- I thought the influence he ascribed to you very probable . 
-- inquired Paul , already anticipating her answer . 
As Miss Ashly thus briefly expressed her wish , she looked very scrutinizingly at Paul , evidently with a curiosity as to whether he had any feeling of his own to which this proposition might run counter . 
The tone of his reply , was very reassuring , to her . 
But as he made this mere reference to the portrait of her brother -LRB- which he had been employed upon for four or five days -RRB- , Paul became , for the first time , aware of a lurking reluctance in his hitherto willing task of furthering the love of Mr. Ashly . 
`` I must reserve the disclosure of it , with your permission , '' said Paul -- `` the principal wheel of the machinery not being as yet , very certain of completion . 
Paul scarce confessed to himself the real motive which lay hidden under this apparently very considerate question -- the hope , that , in Miss Ashly 's fuller explanation of the probabilities of the match , he might find some excuse to himself for less zeal in its favor . 
Her reply gave somewhat of a new color to her own interest in it , and -- -LRB- what with the significancy of the gift of which he now found the bestowal in his own hands , and the side-inferences as to his own value by the same standard , in the mind of the Aunt -RRB- -- he listened more attentively even than Miss Ashly was aware of -- interrupting her only by monosyllables of surprise or encouragement . 
Paul turned his inquiring eyes more fully towards her as she paused , for he was not aware that the relative position of the two families was so much in favor of the Palefords . 
But , with the best blood , there should be also the best look of personal superiority ; and this -LRB- I may say to you Mr. Fane , since you have brought me to the confessional -RRB- , is a hobby that amounts to a monomania in our family . 
`` All of which Miss Paleford certainly is , '' echoed Paul . 
As Miss Ashly 's cold eye kindled with the glow of this generous tribute to her friend -- her neck lifting unconsciously from the bend forward that was usually somewhat ungraceful , and her proudly cut mouth changing from its habitual disdain to a less curving arch of genial enthusiasm -- Paul took the imprint upon his memory of what he should reproduce in her portrait . 
But there was more than this , and more than sympathy of homage to beauty , in the apparently absorbed attention of the courteous attaché.In spite of a half-conscious reluctance at his heart , Paul felt that resistless welding of a new link to the heart which comes with timely corroboration by another 's praise . 
His freshly received impression of Sybil 's beauty and character -- as new that evening as if he had never before seen her -- was graven in , by this eloquent homage -LRB- from one who chanced to be , for him , the highest authority of her own sex -RRB- , as by the point of a diamond . 
But his zeal of partnership , in the task of securing her love for another , grew colder as he listened . 
said Paul , giving voice with an effort to a conviction which he could not shut out . 
`` To be overcome , I take it , if at all , by touching the romance of her nature , in some way , '' said Paul , talking very mechanically , but , at the same time , expressing his sincere opinion on the point . 
`` If successful , '' he replied , `` it will cause Mr. Ashly to be seen by Miss Paleford with just that difference -- a romantic sentiment in his face instead of its habitual imperturbability . '' 
said Miss Ashly ; `` and '' -LRB- she continued , turning to Paul with a genial relaxation of her proud features , but in the expression of which his keen eye saw lurking the something still withheld -- the still unsurrendered reservation of an habitual consciousness of superiority -RRB- , `` it is with this excuse that I account to myself for such extraordinary confidence in a stranger . 
Bless me , Mr. Fane ! 
Paul bowed very low , with a mock look of incredulity . 
`` It is my friend the necromancer , however -- not a Mr. Fane of a week 's acquaintance -- whom I thus wonderfully trust , '' she added playfully , as she rose from her seat , `` and , if we eventually owe to you this jewel , so coveted to grace the Ashly name , I shall , at least , feel a life-long gratitude to your kindness -LRB- that is to say , to your hocus-pocus ! -RRB- 
`` Not till we meet at your aunt 's , with the nameless artist , '' answered Paul , very mystifyingly , and the next moment , addressing a remark to Mrs. Cleverly , and so ending the tête-à-têtewith Miss Ashly , leaving her , however , still more puzzled than before by his closing words . 
The remainder of the evening passed off very dreamily to Paul , though he was mechanically and very acceptably unremitting in his attendance upon Mrs. Cleverly . 
In their promenades he came several times in sight of Mary Evenden ; and he was somewhat surprised , with all his abstraction , to see how her eyes failed to follow him , after each sisterly glance of recognition ; but , with the princess and her circle of friends , she seemed absorbed and entirely at her ease ; and Paul could not but feel that his attentions -LRB- which he was to show her but for the peremptory orders to the contrary -RRB- , were anything but missed ! 
`` Signor Valerio , '' to whose side she kept close , was sufficing for her present happiness , without a doubt -- he saw it in the face he knew so well . 
But there was a stronger feeling than jealousy in his heart , which took the uppermost place again , as , each time , she passed out of sight ; and , with this feeling , at last , Paul found himself struggling , as the morning broke on his sleepless eyes after the ball . 
Fromvarious circumstances , there had been a brief calm in the troubled waters of Paul 's destiny . 
The delay of Miss Winifred Ashly in returning to Florence , had deferred , from time to time , the proposed `` sitting , '' which was to be given to Miss Mildred Ashly at her aunt 's rooms ; and a slight illness of Paul 's , with the mourning seclusion of the inhabitants of Casa G -- , had just sufficed to prevent his meeting , for a week or two , with any of the Paleford circle . 
His illness , however , though dispiriting and unfitting him for visits , had not wholly confined him to his lodgings ; and , joining Mrs. Cleverly and Mary Evenden over their breakfast , on his way , he had usually crept around to Blivins 's studio , and beguiled the day with irregular labor at his easel . 
He had thus finished -LRB- with the aid of the miniature -RRB- the portrait of Mr. Ashly , which was to act as his atonement for a rivalry unjustly resentful ; and , though , as a piece of artistic work , it was now very satisfactory to his eye , he had achieved it through many struggles with himself and with very conflicting feelings . 
His friend Tetherly having gone to Rome -LRB- taking with him a note of introduction to Miss Winifred , with whose portrait he had been so captivated -RRB- ; Blivins , silently at work as usual , made happy by the constant company of his brother artist ; Mary Evenden entirely absorbed with `` Signor Valerio 's '' teachings in Art , and Mrs. Cleverly abundantly attended to , by friends of her own whom she had met at court ; Paul was pretty much at the mercy of his own thoughts . 
He had found these , and his comparative solitude , rather more burthensome than he could well bear -- on one cloudy and gloomy day -- and , rather as a relief of desperation than with any feeling of readiness for the task , he sent a note to Casa G -- , making an appointment for the expected `` sitting . '' 
With their leave , he wrote to say , the nameless artist would come out on the morrow and make , there , a commencement of Miss Ashly 's portrait , instead of waiting longer for her aunt 's return from Rome . 
The messenger had returned with a very willing assent to the proposition ; and , early in the forenoon of the next day , Paul was in the vetturino of his friend Giuseppe , going round by Blivins 's studio to pick up his materials , on the way to Casa G -- ; when , at the corner of the Duomo , he was met by the princess , driving in to her own daily occupation . 
On hearing where Paul was bound , with his morning errand , the philosophic sculptress had thought of something it was perhaps timely to speak of , as to the secret of which she had been made the confidant . 
Paul hesitated a little , with the consciousness of the truth of what was thus boldly assumed by the question , for there was a degree of truth in it , at least , of which he had not yet made confession , even to himself . 
he said , with a smile , followed by a look of very puzzled inquiry . 
Paul half stopped in his walk , but she proceeded without noticing his surprise . 
inquired Paul , stopping short , in astonished expectation . 
With all the hidden willingness that there might have been for this news , Paul found its open announcement somewhat staggering . 
Paul could not but admit that better authority was hardly possible . 
It grew evident to Paul that he had been very sagaciously watched . 
asked Paul , rather skeptically . 
`` Yet she is very affectionate in her nature , '' Paul musingly said . 
`` Pleased , of course , with your Daphne -- flying from love , '' Paul added . 
As she stood near the pedestal of Daphne , with the moulding-pencil in her hand , pointing to the refusal expressed in the movement of the shoulders , I hinted at a possible similarity between this and a future consciousness of her own -- at a proposal from Mr. Fane , or somebody else . '' 
Paul asked , very eagerly . 
There was Paul , she said , whom she had every reason in the world to fall in love with . 
She believed , from certain indications , that his mother expected it of her -- she thought it probable , indeed , though he had never spoken on the subject , that Paul expected it himself . 
Yet she had hoped that , in his absence , he would form a passionate attachment to some one else , leaving her to resume her sister 's place in his affection on his return . 
She would have been much happier to have found him married , on her arrival in Florence . 
There was at present a restraint between herself and her old playmate -LRB- she added , after a little hesitation , quite sadly -RRB- , and she could only explain it by the want of sympathy -- her own unavoidable lack of response to some feeling he had been cherishing towards her . '' 
Paul felt that there was light thus thrown on much that he had found inexplicable , in Mary 's manner . 
He listened with expectant attention . 
`` And is it possible , then , '' asked Paul , whose interest in Mary -LRB- as a problem he had failed to decipher -RRB- began to be awakened , `` that there can be a woman 's heart wanting to a nature otherwise of such completeness ? '' 
suggested Paul . 
`` Why , if so , you have strangely failed to awaken it , '' replied his friend , `` but it may be only a stronger instance of that unequal tardiness of Nature which I have often observed . 
Paul might have given an instance of this , if he had been at liberty to speak of Miss Winfred Ashly -- but the passing thought and its association reminded him of the errand he was bound upon , and he hastened to close the conversation by reverting to its main point . 
`` Your kind counsel , then , '' he said , `` releases me altogether from one of my two obligations -- enjoining upon me , of course , to devote myself exclusively to the fulfillment of the other -- not loved by Mary Evenden , I may freely take my chance of being loved by Sybil Paleford ? '' 
Paul had too much on his mind for expression , but he looked inquiringly at the princess . 
asked Paul , with a smile , as he handed his friend into her carriage . 
Paul beckoned to his vetturino , as the princess drove off with this final addition to her tangle of contradictory suggestions ; and , in a few minutes , freighted with his materials from the studio , he was on his way to Colonel Paleford 's ; very little prepared , either by what he had now heard or by his state of health and spirits , for the drama of accumulating events opening before him . 
Onarriving at Casa G -- , Paul found Colonel Paleford sitting solitary and thoughtful under the roofed gateway at the entrance of the vineyard , and it was evidently a relief and pleasure to him to see his friend . 
They had not felt at liberty to speak of it without Paul 's permission -- Miss Ashly , of course , at present , expecting a visit from a stranger . 
They still waited for the appearance of the ladies ; but , in taking up his pencil , as they conversed , Paul found , both how ill he was , and how much his depressed spirits had been already tried , that day . 
By the nicely understood feelof his wand of genius , he was reminded of his trembling hand , and of the doubtfulness of the calm of inner strength that was to be particularly needed for the critical ordeal before him . 
With the long-cherished dream of his youth just crushed in his heart -- a fresh touchstone to be applied to the point of his secret pride and weakness -- the cause of his now most dreaded rival to be magnanimously forwarded by a plot of his own contriving -- and the skill of the artist , notwithstanding all these deranging and disturbing causes , expected to confirm , by his present work , its previous triumphs of art and discrimination -- he literally felt the strength insufficient . 
He was about to confess as much , at an expression of sympathy from Colonel Paleford , who had remarked his paleness and debility , when Miss Ashly 's step was heard upon the stair . 
The greeting was frank and cordial , as she entered , with the pressure given by her hand to Paul 's . 
Paul took the pencil from the little shelf of the easel standing near him , and , with a bow of mock ceremony , made the sign of the cross upon his own forehead . 
`` Our friend Fane , '' said Colonel Paleford , smiling at the blank incredulity with which the silent announcement was received , `` is the nameless artist we have been admiring all this while ! 
`` Was his work , I believe ! '' 
`` Miss Winifred Ashly did me the honor to sit to me , also , '' said Paul , with the deferential air of an employed artist . 
She looked at the easel and at Paul alternately , and seemed to be trying to identify them with something in her mind . 
Feeling somewhat embarrassed with her scrutiny , he went to his portfolio-case which leaned against the wall . 
`` And here , '' he said , producing his crayon copy of her brother , and setting it upon the drawing-board , `` is a present from the same nameless artist , which I presume will be very welcome to Miss Paleford . 
There was an involuntary utterance of admiring pleasure by Miss Ashly , as she first looked at the drawing ; but a recovery of her attitude of reserve , a moment after , and a just perceptible return of her long-remembered and indescribable impenetrability of countenance , once more staggered Paul . 
He was not reassured or comforted , even by the expressive movement of Colonel Paleford , who , after looking a moment at the portrait of Mr. Ashly , passed near where stood the young friend whom he thus considered generously disinterested , silently pressing the hand that Paul was resting on his hip . 
said Paul , wishing to change the subject , and feeling that he must begin soon upon his morning 's work , or lose the strength for it altogether ; `` I have chanced to see you , also '' -LRB- he added , with forced playfulness -RRB- , `` when the innerface of the Ashlys shone through . '' 
But this significant and rather desperate betrayal of his secret thought , as to the present and outerlook of the Ashly features , seemed but to confirm her hesitating reserve . 
`` Pardon me , Mr. Fane ! '' 
I , really -- you must excuse me , Mr. Fane ! 
`` There was in this broken explanation -LRB- and particularly in the concluding word , and in the accent and look with which it was uttered -RRB- , a whole volume for Paul 's well-prepared comprehension to read . 
He saw at once the full length and breadth of the feelings now struggling in Miss Ashly 's mind , and he felt that the line between himself and her -- the long hated line of difference of rank and position -- was re-drawn as with a pen of fire . 
There was but this softening of it , that , as an attachéand with the opportune power of rendering very important service , he had been unquestionably taken into her confidence ; but even this might be attributed to overruling reasons of interest , and it was an admission of equality and willing obligation , now very suddenly withdrawn , on discovering him to be an artist . 
With the rapid crowding of this unwelcome conviction on his mind , Paul 's natural promptitude at grappling with uncertain shadows came to his aid . 
`` If Miss Ashly chooses to be my first customer , '' he said , quietly , `` she is very welcome to so honor me ! 
Paul caught sight of Colonel Paleford 's face , as he turned to his easel to arrange for a beginning , in apparently undisturbed accordance with Miss Ashly 's wish ; and there was an approval in the old soldier 's calm eye , which repaid him for much that he was suffering unseen . 
`` Suppose we compromise the matter , my dear Mildred , '' said the unsuspecting Sybil , `` by your accepting the portrait from me?I am quite at liberty , I am very sure , to accept it , myself , from Mr. Fane , and we shall thus bridge over the chasm , without calling that hateful ` money ' to our aid . '' 
`` But you are not aware , my child , '' said the Colonel , `` how deeply you are in Mr. Fane 's debt , already . 
He has done a masterpiece of work for you , which you have not yet seen . 
There '' -LRB- the father continued , as Paul set the portrait of Mr. Ashly on his easel -RRB- `` is what , hethinks , represents truly the brother of our friend . '' 
Paul heard -- and saw the look given to his work by the large soft eyes that were now the world to him -- and , by those expressive words , he knew that the dreaded success of his artistic effort was complete , his own genius throwing a new and more favorable light upon the character and features of his rival . 
He forgot , in the anguish of the moment , Miss Ashly and her torture of his pride ! 
He nerved resolution and summoned up the calmness for lip and eye . 
The giddiness of the enfeebled invalid had already reminded him , once or twice , that he had both fasted longer than usual , and passed his accustomed noon hour of repose from mental labor . 
His sight was not clear without an effort , and his brain grew faint . 
Suddenly his feet felt uncertain under him . 
Miss Paleford turned to speak , and he made one struggle to seem as he had been gathering strength to seem at that crisis -- but it was too late . 
Around swam all the objects in the room -- furniture , people , windows -- and Paul fell senseless to the floor . 
He found himself alone , and lying upon the broad cushions of a lounge , in a room that seemed not at first familiar to him ; but which the sight of his easel in the corner , and the portrait of Mrs. Paleford on the wall , soon recalled to him as the drawing-room of Casa G -- . 
He gradually remembered the errand with which he had come thither , and the trials and combining circumstances of that morning , to him so eventful ; and he then recalled his debility by illness , and the sudden failure of his strength , while preparing to take a first sitting from Miss Ashly ; and the truth became evident . 
He had fainted , for the first time in his life , and , falling asleep while yet scarce conscious of his restoration , had been left by the family to his repose . 
Languid and spiritless , Paul lay , struggling with his fast up-crowding thoughts . 
Not a sound was to be heard ; and , as he became more used to the shadows of the dim-lighted room , he once more rallied his remembrance of each well-known article of furniture and ornament ; and , by aid of these associations , recovered , link by link , the chain of resolve and duty which had there been bound about his heart . 
He could not but confess to himself -- more than ever before , as he lay undisturbed , with the atmosphere of that beauty-haunted and dream-hallowed house silent around him -- that he loved her who was the angel of the place . 
The mother , whose tender look now fell upon him from the portrait on the wall , seemed again to offer her dying gift -- the priceless daughter 's love , which it had been his bitter task to assist his rival more certainly to win . 
The release given to him in the knowledge of the indifference of Mary Evenden -- no longer a surprise -- seemed a welcome ordaining of Fate , in his destiny of love . 
His whole soul , as he now lay , re-waking and fancy-wild , upon that invalid couch , sprang to Sybil Paleford . 
But there was a sudden revulsion to the incomplete and wayward tide of his returning thoughts . 
He remembered her countenance and her expressive words as she had looked at his portrait of Mr. Ashly ! 
His heart sickened and grew dark . 
The possibility -- nay , the certainty almost -- that his own unclasping of that locked book , and his own laying open of the hidden leaves of character , had induced her to read with new eyes , and with approval unfelt before ! 
It seemed to him more and more fatally true , as he recalled the scene , that , to the gaze of the admiring mourner , it was a revelation of Mr. Ashly 's countenance and inner nature which was welcomed with delight . 
With these conflicting and darkening feelings brooding over the feeble beatings of his heart , Paul was startled by the scarce perceptible moving of the latch . 
The door opened timidly , and , with the streaming of the dying glow of the west into the darkened room , he saw the outlined form of Sybil in her mourning weeds . 
Paul did not stir . 
It occurred to him that the desk of Colonel Paleford was near the head of the couch on which he lay , and there might be something wanted from this , to bring those gliding feet thus noiselessly into the room . 
With closed lids , and the thought that , by the delicacy which propriety required , he should make no stir , nor speak , except in answer , Paul lay breathlessly still . 
The spirit-ear of love , even without the whisper of her moving dress , would have told him of her approach ! 
His heart beat faster and warm , as the folds of her rustling weeds touched the arm that hung languidly over the couch . 
The desk was near , but she stood turned to his pillow . 
He thought his pulse would become audible ! 
Her gaze was on his face . 
He thrilled with the flood of light from her soft eyes -- his lips and brow bathed as by a magnetism of indescribable thrill . 
He felt her warm breath upon his cheek . 
Two swift kisses were impressed upon his eyes -- and , like a shadow of a cloud , she vanished from the room ! 
To thank God for the night that was before him -- to long for the morning to stay away , and for life to be but p746-334 the prolonging of that sweet dream and the wild joy he had now to be alone with -- to wrap himself in bliss beyond words , with the certainty that Sybil Paleford loved him -- was Paul 's tumult of thought , with those kisses on his eyes ! 
Withthe invalid return of the artist to Florence , the next morning , the first sitting of Miss Ashly for her portrait reverted to its original place of appointment , the apartment of her Aunt Winifred ; and , as Paul was likely to have the earliest knowledge of the arrival of the reserved spinster from Rome , the family at Casa G -- were to depend on him for their news and for the arrangement of their visits to town . 
Looking forward with some dread at present , to any fresh trial of his nerves -- -LRB- such as full control over his pencil would be , in the united presence of the aunt and her niece , and probably Miss Paleford -RRB- -- he was very glad of the respite given him by a few days of unaccountable delay . 
Sitting over his coffee , one morning , however , and giving reins to his sensitive imagination -- wondering whether the eccentric lady might not have flitted rapidly through , on a sudden return to England , or started to refresh her content with single blessedness by a visit to the Orient and Lady Hester Stanhope -- perhaps taken ill with the malaria at Rome , perhaps gone into a convent , perhaps attacked by the banditti in the mountains -- Paul was relieved of his uncertainty by a fresh surprise . 
The servant whom he had sent to the post , returned with the following letter from her : -- I presume it will somewhat startle you to see the signature to this letter -- -LRB- `` Winifred Tetherly , '' if , before arriving at the bottom of the page where I am to write it , I do not first awake from a dream -RRB- -- though , for what is but a prompt following of your advice , you have no very reasonable ground for surprise . 
But , my dear Mr. Fane , the grating of my heart 's long-locked convent cell let you in like the sunshine . 
It was fortunate for Paul that immediate and comparatively simple action -LRB- the visit to Casa G -- -RRB- was his first duty after the reading of this letter . 
He was p746-340 not ready , either with nerves or opinions , to think of all it called upon him to realize . 
He mechanically went about his preparations for a day in the country , with the Palefords . 
And in another hour , he was whirling over the bridge of the Arno , the once-more strangely thoughtful and silent passenger in the vetturino of his friend Giuseppe . 
Anysecret embarrassment that there might have been , in the meeting of Paul with the bride and bridegroom , was quite overlaid by the grateful pleasure with which they acknowledged the success of his delicate mission to Casa G -- . 
The truth was , that Paul had touched the secret spring of family pride with which he had confidentially been made acquainted by the niece herself , dwelling mainly on the perfection of manly proportion , in Tetherly 's person , and on his rare loftiness of nature as to all qualities that contribute most to form the inborn nobleman . 
But this latter part of his artistic engagement was , in more than one way , a critical trial of Paul 's self-control . 
The footing of distance and ceremony on which he now stood with Miss Mildred was very difficult to harmonize with the confiding intimacy of the Tetherlys , and still more with the influence of Miss Paleford 's presence , she coming to town most commonly with her friend . 
It was not uncommon for two artists to make drawings from the same subject ; and , on Paul 's requesting the privilege -- as a favor to a brother student in whom he was interested , and who was to profit especially by the comparison thus made instructive between his own work and his friend 's -- the ladies at once assented . 
He required soothing , from time to time , upon the point of Paul 's having friends and acquaintances who were not also his own . 
With his easel in the rear of Paul 's , at somewhat a different angle of light , but getting pretty much the same view , Bosh went industriously to work , on the morning of the second sitting . 
But Paul soon began to discover that he was to draw an unforeseen advantage from the twin portraiture . 
Of course , between his likeness and Paul 's there was all the difference of a lady painted with a mask or without one . 
But her manner softened very perceptibly to Paul , as she saw the more generous and nobler depths of her nature coming out under his pencil . 
With a constant and self-denying effort , he remembered her as she had looked when speaking to him of Sybil Paleford ; and , while he consulted her present face for its lines and shadows , he drew only upon the countenance in his memory for its language and meaning . 
To the two artists , she was evidently as different a creature as could well be imagined ; but , in feeling provokingly conscious of the fidelity of Mr. Blivins 's likeness , she was far more conscious of the truth of Mr. Fane 's . 
Her heart told her that he had profoundly read what was written on its inmost page ; and , by this proof of his superiority of genius to what constituted a literal copyist , like the other artist , she now understood by what spell he had so controlled her . 
And , that the same spell -- rejected as it had been for a while -- was now resuming its power over her , Paul saw with an inexpressible soothing of his pride . 
Another subject , however , of far deeper interest than either Paul or the two portraits of herself , began to engross the attention of Miss Ashly . 
The different persons who were present at these artistic matinées , were not collectively aware how curiously each had some secret reason for affectionate familiarity and intimacy with Paul . 
In every heart -LRB- except Miss Mildred 's own -RRB- he had a hidden niche of grateful attachment -- giving , in spite of all the commonplace-ness of well-bred gossip , a deeper tone to the words and manner with which he was occasionally addressed . 
Her aunt 's confidingness of look and voice , in conversing with him , was simply an inexplicable wonder to the observing niece . 
But all this might still have been left to pass in silent surprise , as merely another exercise of what she had herself experienced of Mr. Fane 's power of magnetism , but for the atmosphere of unreserve which it created , and in which the unguarded nature of Sybil Paleford expanded with unmistrusting simplicity . 
With each succeeding day , to Miss Ashly , the unconscious betrayal of Sybil 's feelings towards Paul had become clearer ; and , with the kindly softening of the general key-note of conversation , there was an outrunning sympathy , in the frank girl 's face and tone , which brought the long-resisted suspicion almost to the full . 
The effect which this unpleasantly increasing conviction was producing on his subject , as she sat , grew embarrassing to Paul 's pencil , however . 
He was coming to the last touch or two which should set the confirming seal and cipher on the character of the expression . 
With his pencil wavering in the twirl of his fingers , and his power of abstraction fast yielding to the more forcible character of what he saw , Paul thought he would make a last trial to forget the face before him , and recall , for a finishing touch , the memory of its expression which he had once treasured away . 
It cost a struggle , and he became , for a moment , disregardful of all but his inner thought . 
There was a slight wave of his hand , intended , half-consciously , as a courteous intimation to his sitter that she need no longer keep her chair ; and he then stepped quickly back and seated himself , and , with the effort to rally his recollection , pressed his hand before his eyes . 
But , to the watchful and beautiful mourner who had seen his strength fail him , but a few days before , and who had still , secretly , a tender care and remembrance of him as an invalid , this sudden change of posture and the pressure of the fingers on the eyelids , were signs of illness . 
`` Dear Paul ! '' 
she murmured , in sounds that just escaped her lips , as she rushed with one bound across the room , and clasped his head in her hands . 
But , though the instant rise of Paul to his feet made her mistake apparent , and there was a laugh of familiar amusement among the less attentive company , the two expressive words so indistinctly uttered had not escaped the ear of Miss Ashly . 
It was a half-playful assurance of Sybil 's that such would be the loving earnestness with which , if he were indeed ill or sad , she would forget the whole world to spring to his side ; it was an acknowledgment of Paul 's , that , with all his heart , for that moment at least , he gratefully and fondly worshipped her . 
There was an instant 's parting and closing of the tightly compressed lips of Miss Ashly , seen by Paul with a chance turn of his head , at the next moment -- the smothered utterance of an outburst of impatient pride -- but , though wholly inaudible to all around , it was , to his sharpened perception , as clear as if the vibration of air had written it on the wall -- the gasping admission that she knew , at last , that Sybil loved him ! 
The game of cross-purposes of which Paul 's life seemed to be a most obstinately tangled example , was still played on , in the few following days , and with a somewhat trying , but more quiet variation . 
With the finishing of the portraits for his friends , and the success with which his genius for Art was now undeniably stamped , the responsibility of the son to his mother , as well as to himself , made its call upon him . 
He felt that it was time to relieve her of the burden of his support -- that , with the timely seizure of opportunity , his ambition demanded that he should commence his profession now . 
There seemed to be both reasons and facilities for his trying his wings first in Europe -- deferring the return to his own country for a couple of years , or till his views of Art had become correctly and definitely confirmed -- but , in the question of where the scene of his first efforts should be , or in what city he should first open his studio as a portrait-painter , he found that his heart must have a share . 
Prompt and uncompromising with himself as Paul was , in his decisions for his own welfare only , there was a few-days ' struggle on this subject , which was , for a while , of very doubtful termination . 
The Tetherlys , since their arrival in Florence , had been occupied very fully with receiving the hospitalities extended to them as bride and bridegroom ; but they seemed to have but one mind as to the necessity of seeing Paul at their table , at least once a day . 
He was very certain to pass the evening with them , in company ; but if they were not to meet at dinner , he must breakfast with them -- Miss Mildred most commonly being one of the party . 
By the pressure of the bride 's engagements , too , or by some apparent accident , it oftenest happened that the niece , after dinner or breakfast , was left to Paul 's attentions exclusively , and a daily tête-à-têtefor an hour or two , seemed , somehow , curiously certain to come to pass . 
As will be easily understood , Paul had only a portion of a mind to give to Miss Ashly , with the struggle of his tenderer interests going on beneath the surface -- his companionship , of course , amounting merely to an exercise of the habitual civility of his manners , with the instinctive earnestness of sincerity , and willingness to be impressed , which formed the language of his nature . 
In proportion to his retiracy and apparent willingness to withdraw from any intricate reciprocation of thought or feeling , however , his proud companion seemed to relax her reserve , and grow kindly and genial . 
Paul became aware , without reasoning upon it , at first , that his footing in Miss Ashly 's regard and confidence , grew daily more assured and agreeable . 
But , while the growing discovery still reached the hidden weakness at the bottom of his heart , it was , for the time , at least , of very secondary interest . 
He hardly realized it enough in fact , even to connect it with the recollection of the good-natured proposal in Mrs. Tetherly 's letter -- the thought of playing the lover to Miss Ashly having been dismissed with a smile ; but still , her aunt having undoubtedly followed up her own wish at present , by the exercise of secret influence in his favor . 
It was a sunset with the promise of a coming spring in its softness and warmth , and Paul sat with Miss Mildred in the balconied window looking down upon the Arno . 
And , aproposof Sybil and my brother , Mr. Fane , '' said Miss Ashly , in whose mind the mention of these two together seemed to break down suddenly a barrier of reserve , `` I was silly enough not to remember , when I once sought your influence for the prospering of Arthur 's passion , that so lovely a girl was most probably , also , a preference of your own . '' 
`` I gave you proof , I believe , '' said Paul , with a smile , that my interest in his behalf was quite sincere . '' 
`` I had no thought of doing so at the time , '' said Paul , `` allowing for the sake of argument , that your supposition is correct . 
Miss Ashly started , and gave Paul a quick and penetrating look . 
The possibility he suggested seemed a new thought to her , but she was doubtful of the willingness for that different result which his words seemed to imply . 
`` You will pardon me , if I do you injustice , '' she said presently , with an effort at frankness , which he saw cost all the self-mastery she possessed , `` but I did not think you -- I do not think any human being in fact -- capable of disinterestedness toward a rival in love . 
-- do you not knowthat she loves you , Mr. Fane ? '' 
`` Allow me to alter your question a little , '' said Paul , `` by the addition of the probability in your brother 's favor which I have just suggested : -- Would Miss Paleford love Mr. Fane -- -LRB- a confession she has never yet framed into words , I give you my honor ! -RRB- 
The hidden qualities of heart that Paul had seen down to , and brought to the surface , in his portrait of her , had surged uppermost , and were now shining brightly through her features . 
He had said little -- he had offered nothing -- but the whole book of his inner nature , and of his feeling as to the subject before them , was read by her at a glance . 
`` Inexpressibly generous to grant , '' she said , taking his hand with a warm grasp in both her own , `` but I will ask it of you ! '' 
With a silent and respectful pressure of his lips to the slight fingers drawn with such nervous closeness to his own , Paul placed in her hand a letter which he already held prepared . 
`` Here , '' he said , `` is what I have written on this very subject to Colonel Paleford . 
Paul bowed , and lifted once more to his lips the hand he held , and in another moment was alone in the street -- alone in the whole world , it seemed to him -- with his overcrowded heart . 
May God bless you and your peerless daughter , my dear colonel , and pray believe me , ever yours most gratefully and devotedly , Withthe next day 's arrangements for departure from Florence , Paul found that his leave-takings of intimate friends were to be less general than he had anticipated . 
The Tetherlys at once concluded to bear him company on his journey . 
Blivins , in a week or two , was to follow the Firkin family to France , where his marriage to Miss Sophia was to take place . 
Miss Ashly came to town to be present at the departure of the Tetherlys , and she was the bearer of a letter to Paul from Colonel Paleford . 
She had evidently relied upon an opportunity to speak to him alone for a moment , probably to acknowledge , in words , the accordance of her feelings with the communication to Sybil 's father , which she had been permitted to read ; but Paul 's heart was too full of all that made up his farewell to Florence , that morning , and he carefully avoided the tête-à-tête , entrenching himself within the forms of kindly ceremony and politeness . 
He took the letter she had brought for himself , as she stood at the carriage-door , at the last moment , and it was not till the first stoppage , at a secluded albergoin the mountains , that he stole away to a lonely spot , under the trees , and had the courage to break the seal . 
But will you allow me to say , also , my dear Fane , that I love my daughter too well to be worldlyin my anxiety for her welfare ? 
A wife , my dear Fane , must live in the same world as her husband to be happy with him ; and it is from the difficulty of this , that the wives of men of genius are seldom happy . 
God bless you for your nobleness to her , and for your truth of friendship to me ; and believe me , my dear Fane , always faithfully yours , The travelling carriage resumed its way , after the noon halt in the mountains ; and Paul , with the secret contained in the foregoing letter to be kept from the Tetherlys , was an absent-minded companion on that journey . 
And so , with the lapse of days that were to Paul like an unrealized dream , they arrived duly in Paris . 
With the proceeding thence , after a short stay , to London , and with Paul 's establishment there , and his first professional year , the reader is not to be troubled . 
Someeighteen months after Paul 's arrival in London , he sat one morning among his pencils . 
He was not very well disposed for work , but it was at least a lesser evil , for he shrank from being left alone with his own thoughts . 
The copy that he was making of his former portrait of Mrs. Tetherly , was to be one in the collection of his drawings which was to grace the boudoirof the bride -- his friend Colonel Paleford 's daughter Sybil , having been married , a month before , to Mr. Arthur Ashly , and this preparatory addition to her new home in England having been among her wishes expressed when first affianced . 
The copy was nearly finished ; but , to give an improving touch to it , Paul had requested a sitting from his friend , the original , her face having very much softened and genialized with the union which had proved to her so happy . 
Arriving in town the previous evening , after an unusually long absence , Mrs. Tetherly had sent word that she would be early at the studio , for the renewed sitting which Paul had written to request ; and he now waited her coming . 
But , pencils were reluctant , with the heart far away ; and , leaving his copy , Paul went to his desk -- remembering a still unread letter of some interest , which had been given to him for his perusal , and , in the press of other matter forgotten . 
An American family , on their first foreign tour , had recently come to him with a note of introduction from his friend Bosh ; and , by the eldest daughter , Miss Katherine Kumletts , he had been indulged with a sight of her friend ` Phia Firkin 's correspondence while abroad -- this last unread letter being at the time mislaid , but afterwards found and handed to Paul , while he was showing his new friends the wonders of the Zoölogical Gardens . 
The groomsman , I should have mentioned to you , was Mr. Fane -- come all the way from London to officiate at his friend Blivins 's wedding . 
He looked paler than I had ever seen him ; and as my Wabash looked considerably redder , the contrast was even more striking than usual . 
And Mr. Fane did everything so beautifully ! 
For me to have set my cap for Mr. Fane -LRB- as I once wrote to you I had some thought of doing -RRB- -- la ! 
We should never sing the same tune , and then he would be jumping out of my reach every minute . 
You should have put your two sharp eyes upon Mr. Fane to understand it , for it is not because he is a bit grander than other people . 
I think , indeed , that my Wabash -LRB- with the present addition to his daily bread , at least -RRB- feels `` some punkins '' above him . 
Then he is so quiet and deferential that you feel quite as tall , if not taller , when he is done looking at you . 
But , still , after talking with him a little , I always have a strange consciousness that he has come out of some inner world to speak to me -- a feeling , somehow , as if he was to return to his unseen parlor friends , when he has done talking with me in the entry . 
Very pleasant , for a change , to see such a man , my dear , but who could tie her nightcap quite at ease in his wonderful company ? 
I know a little more of Mr. Fane than what I have just told you , however . 
Blivins gets very eloquent -LRB- and it is the greatest pleasure to me , in matrimony , thus far , that the dear fellow lies awake at night and tells me all his secrets -RRB- -- very eloquent , indeed , in talking of a certain romantic attachment of his friend Paul 's . 
He -LRB- Blivins , you understand -RRB- quite frightens me -- the way he sits up in bed and bangs his hand down on the counterpane , declaring they will yet be married ! 
But I have an opinion of my own , for I overheard a conversation between Mary Evenden -LRB- the girl he refers to -RRB- and `` Signor Valerio '' -LRB- the lady in disguise , who took my bust -RRB- , on this very subject . 
Why , that she loved Mr. Fane 's genius , but wished some one else to have the rest of him ! 
One little query , by the way , before I bite my lips to stop thinking of Mr. Fane : Might I not have woke up , some morning -LRB- supposing I had married the visible Paul No. 1 -RRB- , and found myself grown intellectual enough to belong to his other world , so as to feel quite at home with the invisible Paul No. 2 ? 
Good-bye , dear Kitty , and with my husband 's second-best love to you , Paul had scarce finished reading the letter of the `` hoosier '' belle and bride , when the pull-up of a carriage at the door of his lodgings announced the arrival of Mrs. Tetherly ; and in the cordial greeting of his unceremonious and genial friend , and in the work for which his pencils were all in readiness , the rather suggestive theories of Mrs. Blivins were soon forgotten . 
`` My dear Fane ! '' 
said Mrs. Tetherly , at last , with an appealing smile , after a few minutes of complete silence , during which he had given his best touch to the new shade of expression in her face , `` I have your forgiveness and something else , to ask of you . '' 
`` Granted , before asking , '' replied Paul , half absently . 
`` How can so worthless and stray a waif as I am , at this present hour , '' sadly and slowly uttered Paul , with a return to the weight that had all day pressed upon his heart , `` be otherwise than willing to be floated anywhere , by any chance tide that should undertake his destiny ? '' 
Paul dropped his pencils , and listened , in puzzled silence and surprise . 
Paul rose to his feet , unable to speak , but the pressure of a cold finger of iron -- hopeless and pitiless -- seemed taken from the life-nerve at his heart . 
He paced the room hurriedly , while his companion went on : `` Pardon me -- a woman and a relative , and knowing Mildred better than you possibly can -- if I prescribe to you the light in which you should look upon this confession . 
Besides , my dear Fane , it reveals the fact that you might win her -- and how worthy Mildred is , of any man 's winning , I need not tell you , after the portrayal of her inmost heart , which you have given with your pencil . 
Paul was too busy with conflicting thoughts to utter a word . 
He stood , with knit fingers and closely-pressed lips , to listen . 
God bless you , my dear Fane ! '' 
And in another moment , and without word or sign from Paul , except only a mechanical return of the pressure of her hand , Mrs. Tetherly was gone . 
Tetherly gave a list of the guests and their peculiar points of character , before leaving Paul in his room to dress for dinner ; and , as he closed the door , Paul fell to wondering how he had so mechanically consented to be brought where he was , and , particularly , how he had given in , ever so tacitly and reluctantly , to Mrs. Tetherly 's improbable scheme . 
The approaching meeting with Miss Ashly , he felt , was to cost him an effort , inestimably as he had prized the confession of preference and esteem for him which she had made to her aunt . 
But , had the removal of that long festering sting from his heart left it more impressible ? 
Would the victory of his pride warm into love ? 
The colder judgment , sitting in the background of his troubled thoughts , said `` no ; '' while , so utterly adrift and unloved did he feel in the world , since the marriage of Sybil Paleford , that even this vague semblance of happiness looked attractive . 
To turn over the blotted leaf of his heart , and forget it if he could , but to offer the next blank page as a tablet whereon Fate was free to write , was the resolve plucked at the last moment from the perplexities of his thoughts , as he descended to the drawing-room . 
The greeting from Miss Ashly , as she stood among eight or ten of her relatives , all strangers to Paul , was , of course , only a friendly cordiality . 
He intended to approach again the hand that pressed his so warmly , but his presentations , right and left , by his host , Sir John Morford , were scarce ended , when the door of the dining-room was thrown open , and he took his chance of neighborhood at dinner by giving his arm to the nearest lady . 
But , with Mrs. Tetherly on the right hand of Sir John , and engrossed of course -- Tetherly between two aunts on the same side of the table with himself -- Miss Ashly directly opposite , and to be talked to , if at all , with an audience of five or six indifferent listeners -- and himself between two profiles , which his artistic eye discovered , at a glance , to belong to two wooden and well-bred mediocrities -- Paul ate his soup with small promise of pleasure . 
He could have taken his thoughts into his own brain -- -LRB- serving out the dried raisins of well-preserved commonplaces , instead of fresh grapes plucked from the vine of the present moment -RRB- -- but that his old pride-wound was still sensitive , though healed . 
Miss Ashly 's cold grey eyes were seeing him in a new light , and trying him , inevitably and for the first time , by the standards among which she had been brought up . 
He was piqued , not only to appear to advantage , but contentedly at his ease . 
Master of appearances , as Paul constitutionally was , however , he was not master of his own nervous susceptibility . 
The respective estimate which he formed of himself and those around him , did not at all agree with their respective estimate of themselves and him ; and this difference , which , under ordinary circumstances , would simply have amused him , acted upon him , while so much was at stake , with the republicanism of Nature . 
He was outvoted . 
It was perfectly evident to him that his neighbors were eating their dinner under the full impression of their social superiority to both Tetherly and his friend the American artist -- and in the very small minority of his own opinion to the contrary , there was no consciousness of power . 
Yet why should she not see -LRB- Paul 's pride insisted on asking -RRB- , that there was insult and contemptuous injustice for him , in the very different sort of kindness -- the condescending toleration -- of the manner of her relatives ? 
He tried in vain to still the gnawing of it . 
He remembered over and over again , that , for the two years he had been in England , he had associated almost only with those who , by court standards , were the superiors of her family -- made quite at home , by his genius , in houses of the more exclusive nobility where the lesser aristocrats around him never set foot -- yet the thought was of no avail . 
They were Ashlys -- of the blood of the proud woman who had given the first life-sting to his pride -- and by that silly yet ineffaceable memory of his boyhood 's mortification , they had the power to humiliate him . 
The dinner seemed interminable to Paul ; but the ladies at last left the table ; and , with Miss Ashly 's disappearance , the `` amusing American artist , '' as her uncles and cousins had all thought him , became suddenly silent . 
With the silver fruit-knife for a pencil , he wrote or sketched , very absently , on the bottom of his plate , his eyes sheltered with the hand that supported his forehead . 
His friend Tetherly was deep in politics , with their host , at the other end of the table . 
How he could ever have consented for an instant to think of marrying Miss Ashly -- binding himself to breathe , even for a second time in his whole life , the hell of such an atmosphere of relationship -- was working the curl of Paul 's lip into something like a smile of bitterness , when , suddenly , along the gravel-path under the window , came the quick rattle and pull-up of a post-carriage , silencing the conversation all around . 
Paul felt his eyes grow hot and blind , with the burning flush to his brain and temples . 
The clenched fingers with which he almost broke in two the knife in his hand -- the bloodless lips of the face bent low to the table -- told the effort that it cost him for self-control . 
To rush from the sight of those around him -- to fly from the house and escape the agony of that meeting -- was the wild , fierce impulse of heart and brain . 
He thanked God that no one spoke to him -- that he could be silent and alone with his anguish , though in the presence of unsympathizing men -- that there was time to rally , and grow calm , and nerve for the bitter trial now inevitable -- the trial of congratulating herupon her marriage ! 
Sybil Ashly , the woman he loved most on earth , a bride -- nay , a wife , and scarce a bride any longer , but already accustomed to the happiness of that new name , and now to be seen presently by him , and watched for hours in the familiar interchange of endearments with another ! 
And yet the secret of what he was to suffer was between herself and him . 
Miss Ashly , it was true , knew the sacrifice he had made to leave that matchless girl for another 's winning ; but she did not know the proof of Sybil 's love for him , hidden -LRB- still wordless and scarce believed -RRB- in the very depths of his soul -- those swift , warm kisses on his eyes , as he lay -LRB- she thought , insensible ! -RRB- 
Ashly , the husband , had looked upon it as a caprice of girlish attachment , which he had only to make serious love to overcome -- even Colonel Paleford having concealed from him the critical improbability of his success , and the full depth of Paul 's magnanimity of relinquishment . 
How was she -- Sybil Paleford , into whose willing eyes he had poured such glowing devotion from his own , under Italy 's love-kindling sunsets , dreamy moonlights , and calm , sweet mornings -- how was she persuaded to forget him ? 
That it was not a resentment , and not because his motives were misunderstood , he was certain . 
Was Paul 's romance of belief in woman 's unworldliness of love to be thus shaken ? 
It was well for Paul , that , in the hour of unobserved self-absorption given him by the gentlemens ' remaining at table , his crowding thoughts had time to traverse their tumultuous circle and come round again to his composure of disappointment . 
Upon the sad misgiving that Sybil was , after all , more like others than he had dreamed her to be -- that she had loved him when near , and soon forgot him for another when he was gone -- he once more became self-possessed , and calm outwardly . 
His love-dream for life was over , but , with the certainty of that , he could at least entomb its wreck in his own memory . 
It was in the past , and he could hide it from the world . 
The long windows to the floor were all open , for it was a warm October night , with a brilliant moon ; and , as the guests followed Sir John into the drawing-room by the folding-doors , Paul stepped out upon the long piazza that ran the length of the house . 
The formidableness of a deliberate approach , to give , with the other gentlemen , his welcome to the new arrivals , rather staggered his courage . 
If he could enter at the side , by one of the windows opening upon the lawn , and speak to the bride -- to Mrs. Ashly -- when the attention of the company was less concentrated upon her , he thought the embarrassment might be less . 
At least , he might bathe his hot eyes in the fresh , calm air of night , and , from the stars , familiar to his happier hours , get a thought , perhaps , to help build the barrier that he needed . 
The brilliant flood of light , from the windows of the drawing-room , made the foliage of the low-hanging trees upon the lawn too golden for even the moonlight to be perceptible ; and the stars , up through the glow of the atmosphere immediately around the house , were scarce visible at all . 
Paul leaned over the railing for a moment ; but the concentration of the light and the sound of voices drew him insensibly onward , and , passing one or two pillars of the colonnade , he came suddenly upon the window commanding a full view of the company within . 
A sense of alarm -- a staggering of the brain-poise for a moment -- but he remembered that he was still outside , in the darkness . 
He was not within the four walls which bounded the light for those in her presence . 
He was not visible , to her!But she , to him , through that open win dow ! 
-- oh God , how beautiful she once more beamed , a wonder , upon his eyes ! 
It was higher beauty , now , than when she had turned from court homage to think only of him -- higher beauty , in England and as an Ashly , than , under the passionate sky of Italy , giving a joyous girl 's first heart-waking to Paul Fane ! 
Waiting his opportunity to speak to her , without all eyes upon the unsuspected trial of his courage , he still stood , an unobserved spectator of the scene , by the column of the piazza . 
In her white evening dress as a bride , and with a coronet of costly pearls circling the shadow of her golden hair -- her exquisitely moulded shoulders and arms fairly dazzling with their glowing and fine-grained whiteness , in the light , and her completed fullness of figure as a woman without a fault , either of sculpture-line or queenliness of mien -- she sat at a slight angle of turn from the window where Paul stood , but , by the next window , apparently , when not occupied with conversation , looking out upon the lawn . 
Paul gave to the happy man one look of his practised and searching eye ! 
He had studied that face too well as an artist to misread it now . 
With his cold and habitual contemptuousness , the bridegroom was blest ! 
But , even on the torturing throe of uncontrollable envy and jealousy , which Paul was guilty of feeling , for the moment , there was a gleam of wicked light . 
A step approached from behind , as this dark thought gave place to nobler feelings ; and Tetherly , coming in from his cigar upon the lawn , slipped his arm into Paul 's , to have his company at the tea-table . 
Mrs. Tetherly presided at the urn in the corner ; but , on their way , the two gentlemen together gave their first greeting to the bride -- the anticipated embarrassment , and scarce controllable emotion of Paul , being fortunately and wholly veiled under the confusion of that double welcome . 
Paul took the tone of his manner , and was ceremonious , too . 
He noticed that Mrs. Ashly 's voice did not utter his name audibly , though her lips moved . 
She replied to his one question of her father 's health , with a tone that , to him , seemed forced and mechanical , but in no way likely to seem other than commonplace to those around ; and , feeling Mr. Ashly 's eye very steadily fixed upon him , Paul shook hands with the bridegroom , and , echoing his friend 's welcome of him to England , passed on . 
The ordeal was over -- he scarce knew when , or how ! 
`` My dear Paul ! '' 
said Mrs. Tetherly , in an under-tone , as she handed him a cup of tea , `` thank God for the old magnetism , as strong as ever ! 
Paul had but one image in his bewildered thoughts , and he looked at his friend in dumb amazement . 
exclaimed Paul , with the expostulatory tone of mere politeness , but scarce collecting his scattered senses sufficiently to comprehend the meaning of his zealous and partial friend . 
But Paul was not equal even to the ordinary effort of conversation -- much less to the difficult exercise of tact and delicacy which would be required by his present position toward Miss Ashly . 
His mind and heart , in spite of all struggle of judgment and principle against it , were now full of burning thoughts of another . 
To escape from looking longer upon that peerless bride was the present prompting of his conscience -- the cruel need of his weakness and passion . 
That he should take an early and unceremonious leave , with the morrow 's morning -- never again to see Sybil Paleford -- Sybil Ashly -- if it were possible to be avoided -- he resolved , of course ; but , for that evening , he was to breathe the air of bewildering nearness to her , and to be included in the same hospitality ; and , that night , he was to pass , under the same roof with her glorious beauty , in all its enchantment -- ay , in all its happiness ! 
And , with this torture of thought crowding on soul and brain , with anguish too intolerable to be concealed , he needed darkness around him . 
The unwitnessing or unrevealing stars were the only company he could bear . 
Like a far-extended floor of the drawing-room , the closely-shaven lawn of Raven-Park extended away , its limits lost in the wilderness of thickets and noble trees ; and , from shadow to shadow of the leafy breaks in the moonlight , Paul now wandered , thanking God to be alone . 
The music of the electric fingers of his friend , pouring from the open windows , was audible in its mellowed and best effect throughout the grounds . 
He was conscious , at last , of being soothed by this continued and unseen ministration ; and seating himself upon the railing of a bridge over a serpentine stream -- the outlet to a sheet of artificial water on the edge of the lawn -- he gave his thoughts up to the music . 
But , a sudden fear began to take possession of Paul 's nervously excited brain . 
Surely she would not play thatromance ! 
Paul had caught , for her portrait , the expression of the rapt genius that found its way to the ivory keys through her nervous and pliant fingers . 
And of this more sympathetic and descriptive improvisation , both Paul and Sybil Paleford had been exceedingly fond , in the days they had passed together at Florence -- one strange romance , particularly , possessing for them a singular fascination , though it was seldom given but at the last hour by the excited player , and with feelings wholly abandoned to the theme . 
The exchange of feeling that had never been made in words , by Paul and Sybil , had been passed and repassed between them , on that music 's electric magnetism , in eloquence of fire ! 
The player , as Paul now recognized , was becoming gradually unconscious of listeners . 
By the flitting forms passing to and fro between himself and the windows , he could see that the company had been enticed out upon the lawn by the loveliness of the night ; and Mrs. Tetherly , left alone in the room , had probably abandoned herself to the witchery of the instrument . 
It was changefully expressive of reverie -- sad for a moment or two , then strong or brilliant ; but , at last -LRB- and it was this which had startled Paul with such sudden alarm -RRB- , hovering with evident absent-mindedness over the commencement of the German story . 
But , as Paul stood , risen to his feet , and listening with the alarm of nervous expectation , a flowing figure in white came with uncertain movement toward the shadow of the gigantic willow overhanging the bridge . 
At the step with which she crossed the line of shade made upon the broad lawn by the clump of trees nearest to him -- emerging suddenly into the radiant light of the clear full moon -- he saw that it was the bride . 
Yet how unlike herself , as he had seen her in that drawing-room , a half hour before ! 
Hid , himself , in the dark shadow of the drooping branches that fell like a curtain around him , Paul checked the impulse to speak and warn her of his neighborhood -- but , on that instant of stillness , burst suddenly the clear melody of the dreaded romance ! 
Another advancing step , to place her hand upon the railing of the bridge , and Paul 's voice broke the silence . 
It was her name only -- her new name -- uttered with the instinctive impulse that he had no right to leave her longer unaware of his presence . 
But , with a single start of surprise , and a syllable -- the one sweet syllable he had never thought to hear from her lips again -- his own familiar name -- the step with which he was about to pass and leave her to her solitude was arrested . 
She looked into his face for one moment -- the wild notes rose upon the air with the despairing madness of the lover -- the madness of which they had both learned to interpret the musical intensity of expression -- and , with a short quick scream , but with terrible suddenness and vehemence , she flung her arms about his neck . 
One long look -- one maddening , clinging kiss to her insensible lips -- and , laying her gently down where the coming friends would find her , Paul fled into the darkness . 
He could not , even for aid to her , meet human faces . 
To be alone -- alone , with his own wicked , but oh ! 
delirious joy of madness -- out-frenzying , in its passionate intensity , even the madness of the music -- he felt to be his thirst , with that kiss upon his lips . 
The night was short . 
With the opening of the doors by the servants , Paul passed to his room ; and , leaving a hurried note of apology and farewell , which Tetherly would make acceptable to their host , but promising to his friend a better explanation p746-391 of his sudden departure when they should meet , he was , in a few minutes , alone on his way to London . 
The Ashlys , among others , who had `` the old place '' to go down to , were `` down in the country ; '' and Tetherly , by every mail or two , was writing urgently to his friend Fane , to accept the invitation to the great family gathering at Ashly Hall , and thus join him for a few weeks of hunting , shooting , and Christmas-keeping . 
But Paul was busy with a purpose which he had not yet communicated to his friends the Tetherlys . 
He was preparing to return to his own country ; and the completion of the various professional commissions which , with his nearly two years in England , had largely accumulated on his hands , occupied his time so fully that he could very easily plead a pressure of engagements . 
As the thought of home grew upon him , even a contemplated trip to Paris , to take his leave of the most intimate friend he had found in Europe , the Princess C -- , was reluctantly abandoned . 
He wrote to her , instead . 
To return to yourself -- it is not altogether the price you are to receive for your pictures -- not that , nor even the quantity of renown with it -- that is to make you happy , my dear Fane ! 
Watch this fair girl , my dear Fane ! 
Part , however , though , it appears , we must -LRB- and , if for more than a year or two , I would rather it should be for ever -RRB- , we have something even more precious to preserve than the hope of meeting again -- the memory , my dear Paul , of a friendship irreproachable!I began , thinking it would not be so , I confess . 
But , farewell , my dear Paul ! 
Thedelay of Paul 's voyage homeward , in consequence of Mrs. Cleverly 's intention of taking passage with him , weighed heavily on his already depressed spirits . 
For to-day , however , farewell , and , that God may preserve you to bless once more these weary eyes , prays fervently , dearest mother , your affectionate With the close of that voyage , and the return of the American artist , Mr. Paul Fane , from Europe , we come upon that part of his history that is already known . 
The entrance upon his profession , after his few years of foreign study and travel , was naturally the earliest point at which Fame , in his own country , would recognise his career , and , with that , commences commonly what knowledge of him is now upon men 's lips . 
His adoption of a style of Art peculiarly his own , his doubtful success for a while , his marriage to Miss Mary Evenden , and his struggles with poverty and misappreciation -LRB- her love and completeness of sympathy forming the whole sunshine of his life , to himself , as it did its most visible beauty and poetry to the eyes of others -RRB- -- all this is in hearsay while he is living , and -LRB- should his pictures live after him -RRB- likely to be written of , by-and-by . 
There were apprenticeships little understood , however -- trainings of his heart and pride , as well as of his pencil -- which , the author has thought it might be curious to tell . 
This book has accordingly confined itself to those secret mouldings of his genius and character `` which were else untold ; '' but , by the reader 's acquaintance with which , he will be enabled to comprehend the impulses to Fane 's artistic career and style , as well as the motives for some peculiarities in his life and manners . 
