IT was three years since old Abel Dane laid down the compass and the chisel on his work-bench in the old shop , and himself on his bed in the new house which he had so lately built for his comfort , and which he never left again until he was carried out by his neighbors . 
Here 's neighbor Dane , been so busy building houses for other people all his life that he never had time till now to build one for himself ; and to think on ` t ! '' 
said the cooper , with mournful , wondering eyes , `` there the house is , and here he is a-goin ' to his final home , and leavin ' everything to his heir ! 
The heir mentioned was Abel Dane the younger , who inherited his father 's trade , the old shop , the new house , and a faithful foster-sister . 
It was three years since that dark day in autumn ; and now just such another dark day in the fall of the year was drawing to a close ; and Abel 's foster-sister , having set the supper-table , took her favorite place at the window to watch for his coming . 
And there , sitting in the cheerful room , which would soon be made more cheerful by his presence ; remembering the sad day of the funeral , so like this day ; thinking of all God 's mercles to her , before and since , -- to her , a poor orphan , so unworthy such a home and such a brother ; looking across the gloomy common , whose very bleakness enhanced her sense of life-warm comfort in house and heart , she saw , through thick tears of happiness , which magnified him into a glimmering seraph , with irregular , shining wings , her `` more than brother , '' returning . 
Then she drew up the invalid 's chair , beat the cushion , and helped the invalid to her seat , -- for this was another important item of Abel 's inheritance which we have neglected to mention , namely , a paralytic mother . 
Abel washed his stout carpenter 's hands at the sink , kicked off his boots , slipped on his slippers , and the three sat around the little table together , Abel opposite Eliza , -- a goodly young man and a strong , browncheeked and chestnut-haired , with a countenance not lacking in brightness generally , and particularly radiant on this occasion . 
Eliza noticed his gayety , and was glad . 
They were not lovers , though she loved him . 
She had never confessed to herself that she hoped in her inmost heart to be nearer and dearer to him some day than she was now . 
To be to him what she was seemed happiness enough , -- his sister , his servant , -- his , whom it was so sweet to serve : preparing his meals , which it was her meat and her drink to see him eat with appetite ; making his bed and smoothing his dear pillow , with hands magnetic with affection ; stealing his boots , and blacking them , with the delight which love lends to the meanest occupation ; reading to him evenings and Sundays , or hearing him read from the books that gave her a twofold pleasure because he enjoyed them ; living thus day after day and year after year in the nourishing atmosphere of his out-going and in-coming , and satisfied to live on thus forever . 
And now , without questioning what made Abel so joyous , she was joyous too ; for this is the blessedness of love , that it annihilates selfishness , and makes us happy in others ' happiness . 
Filling the cups , she poured her own thankful spirit into them with the fragrant beverage , and sweetened them , not with sugar only , but with her own spiritual sweetness , which both Abel and his mother tasted in the tea she made and gave them , and missed in that which others made and gave them , without comprehending the subtle cause . 
Abel roared with mirth . 
Upon which Abel flashed his beaming eyes upon his foster-sister . 
He was going to compliment her wit ; but something better than that , -- something glowing in her face , -- attracted his attention . 
She did not doubt , however , but that Abel saw something pleasing in her face just then , and the delicious consciousness made her blush like a rose . 
cried Abel , with fond enthusiasm . 
`` A beautiful soul makes a beautiful face , they say , '' added Abel . 
-- with a gay , triumphant smile , which Eliza did not understand till two hours later , -- thinking , poor child , that his words referred to her . 
But , two hours later , Mrs. Dane having fallen asleep in her chair , and Abel having shut the book he was reading , and taken Eliza 's work out of her hand , they two sat together before the fire , which blazed up brightly with shavings from the shop , and Abel looked into her face with ardent eyes . 
A sweet tremor rippled all over her , as if she had been a fountain , and his breath the warm south wind . 
She looked through his eyes into his soul , and saw love there ; while he looked -- not into her soul . 
`` It is my heart 's secret , '' he went on ; for she was dumb with fear and gladness . 
He placed it in her hands . 
He stooped to pick up the letter . 
He regarded her a minute in silence , his brows darkening . 
`` You disappoint me , '' he added , heavily ; `` I did n't expect you would receive the news in this way . 
`` Oh , Abel ! '' 
grinned Abel , sarcastic ; for he thought her unreasonable , unkind ; and so he stabbed her with a look to punish her . 
Abel frowned at what he considered a mean insinuation against his beautiful Faustina ; and , holding the letter in his hand , looked moodily at the fire , utterly ignorant and regardless of the agony in the weak woman 's breast at his side . 
`` A girl 's caprice ; a little trait of envy , -- angry , perhaps , because I have n't consulted her before ; but she 'll be sorry for it ; and if she is n't , why , I shall be independent of her '' -- with such a glorious young creature for his wife ! 
And the young man selfishly calculated the slight loss it would be to him , even if Eliza should carry her resentment so far as to leave his house ; not , of course , seriously supposing such an event possible . 
and see the stream of his future flow toward flowery embowered vistas of hope , while yours took a sudden plunge into some chilly , unsunned , melancholy cave ? 
said Abel . 
`` Absent-minded , '' suggested Abel . 
Eliza conducted Mrs. Dane to her chamber ; nor did she return to sit a little while alone with Abel as usual , but went to her own room , unlighted , and shut herself up there with the dark and cold . 
She was the same to Abel , in most outward things , as she had ever been ; but oh , the hidden mind ! 
This Abel could not see . 
He resented her last night 's conduct , and waited for her to come to him humbly and ask his forgiveness , when he intended to pardon her magnanimously , after administering a fitting rebuke , and then be again to her the kind brother he had always been , and always meant to be , in spite of her faults . 
The days passed , the leaves all fell from the trees ; it was now November ; and Eliza , having worked industriously to prepare the house for the coming bride , when all was done , requested Abel , one Sunday afternoon , to grant her a few minutes ' conversation . 
Abel forgot his speech , -- opened his eyes . 
ejaculated Abel , frowningly . 
`` Eliza , '' said Abel , sternly , `` you area strange girl ! 
Abel looked at her a minute , with fixed teeth . 
Her subdued , calm , independent way exasperated him . 
he exclaimed ; though he did not like to own that he needed her to receive and attend his bride . 
Cut to the heart , Eliza did not answer , and he stalked away . 
What gave edge to his reproof was the consciousness that she wasacting unreasonably . 
The entire instinct of the woman rose up and prophesied the unsuitableness of Abel 's chosen bride . 
Not solely for her own sake , but for Abel 's also , and equally for his mother 's , she must regard the wedding-day as an evil one to them all ; and to join in the festivities of that occasion , to mask her misery with smiles , to kiss and congratulate and witness the joy over an event which was worse than death to her , would have been too terrible a mockery . 
What would old Abel Dane have said , I wonder ? 
I knowed old Mis ' Dane when she seemed as fur removed from trouble as anybody . 
`` I see old Mis ' Dane as I come by ; thought I 'd look in ; and there she was , a-cryin ' . 
`` But probably she felt the necessity of doin ' somethin' for herself ; for Abel ca n't afford to support three women in that house , massy knows ! 
For my part , I do n't think she 's any more fit to be Abel Dane 's wife , than you be to be president , John Apjohn . '' 
The book of beauty which Abel Dane had chosen , which he took out of the modest covers of maidenhood , and bound in bridal gilt and velvet , and placed in the closet of his affections , to be his inseparable companion and book of life , -- was now to be tested . 
How soon the gilt began to tarnish , the sumptuous velvet to fade , the contents to belie the title , and Abel to learn how much better Eliza had discerned their true character at a glance , than he with all his admiring attention , let us not too closely inquire . 
And now , in her lonely retreat , she heard again and again how handsome Faustina was , and how much she was admired , and how happy Abel seemed , and what new furniture he had purchased , and what a gay winter they were having , and how almost everybody except the joyous wedded pair often inquired for her , and sent love . 
So the winter passed , and the summer followed ; and she learned that now Abel had especial reason to be tender of his bride ; that he had bought a new carriage to drive her out in ; that , in his devotion , he spared no time or trouble or expense , if a whim of hers was to be gratified . 
Abel , far from her , forgetting her entirely , no doubt , in his separate delight , was the father of a beautiful boy . 
How the child thrived , and grew to look like his mother ; how Faustina once more flashed into society , which she dazzled by her beauty and jewels and dresses ; how envious ones reported that she was running Abel into debt by her extravagance ; how careworn he was really beginning to look ; all this , with many dark hints of things going wrong at home , Eliza heard during the two years that followed . 
But never , directly or indirectly , did she get one word from Abel . 
Others invited her to return to the village ; he never invited her . 
His resentment seemed eternal . 
It was Abel 's hand , -- changed , agitated , hurried , -- but still she knew it well . 
But love , like a strong power , seized upon her , gave her strength , and guided her hands , and sent her , the next day , whirling away upon the train that bore her back to Abel and her home . 
Andnow , what stress of ill-fortune had hurried Abel into sending this alarming missive ? 
Abel Dane sits by his brilliant and showily-dressed wife in their smart pew . 
His mother has also , by a strong resolution and effort , got to church this afternoon , thinking it the last Sunday of the season , and perhaps the last Sunday of her life that she shall be able to hear the good old man preach . 
She is fond of tomatoes , and involuntarily looks over the fence into Abel Dane 's garden , where there are bushels of nice , ripe ones . 
`` Now , old Mis ' Dane , and Abel , too , for that matter , had jest as lives we 'd have some of them tomatuses as not . 
echoes Abel Dane 's shop , as if it were laughing at him . 
To run over to Abel Dane 's and borrow a long carpenter 's ladder is John 's first thought . 
`` I s ` pose I 'm to lay here till doomsday , or till Abel 's folks come home . 
I 'll tell Abel to come and call off his dog . '' 
He can never confront Abel Dane after this ; so he looks about him for something on which to beat out his brains . 
He twists his neck around on his shoulders , as he crouches , softly turns up his timid glance over the cabbages , and beholds the dreaded visage of Abel Dane . 
Abel stops and gazes , too much amazed to speak . 
says the severe voice of Abel . 
Only the rear slope of his little , shining bald crown , his broad , striped suspenders crossed behind over the back of his clean Sunday shirt , and a section of the Sunday trousers , bearing the imprint of the aforesaid over-ripe melon , are visible to the wondering eyes of Abel . 
`` Wal , Abel Dane , this is a pooty sight for Sunday , I ` spose you think ! 
For here he 's kep ' me groanin ' on my back an hour , if he has a minute . '' 
Thus summoned , the petrified man limbers , and rises slowly upon his miserable feet ; glancing , with those woe-begone , large eyes of his , first at his wife , then at Abel Dane , and lastly at the fliched tomatoes . 
`` I am sorry , '' says Abel , `` if my dog has put you to any inconvenience . 
`` The fact is jest this , Abel Dane : if you begrutch me a few tomatuses , it 's what your father never done before ye , and I never expected it of you ; and I 'll cheerfully pay you for 'em , if you 'll accept of any pay ; and my husband here knows I only jest stepped over the fence to save a few that was bein ' wasted , which I thought was sech a pity , and you 'd jest as lives we 'd have 'em ; and I meant all the time to tell ye I took some , when that plaguy dog ! '' 
`` Well , well , neighbors , '' said Abel , `` you 're quite welcome to the tomatoes . 
As he spoke , kindly and consolingly , Prudence only cried the more , and blindly flirted her skirts ; while John , wretchedly bent , with a supplicating countenance , approached his neighbor . 
`` Abel Dane , '' said he , in a voice scarcely audible , it was so weak and hoarse , `` me and you 've knowed each other ever sence you was a child , and I knowed your father ` fore ever you was born ; and I believe I 've always had an honest name with you till now . '' 
`` And so you have now , Mr. Apjohn , '' said Abel , cheeringly . 
I understand you , '' -- and he shook the cooper 's helpless , cold hand with genuine cordiality . 
I aman honest man ; and , though things do n't look jest right , I own , yet you know , Abel Dane , I 'd no more be guilty of takin ' anything that did n't belong to me than I would cut my own head off . '' 
Abel , pitying him sincerely , and seeing well enough that this poor , shaking creature was innocent , whoever was guilty , assured him again and again of his confidence and good-will . 
`` I promise you , '' interrupted Abel , `` nobody shall ever hear of it from me . 
gulped the woman ; `` I 've no words , Abel ! 
And Abel hurried them away ; for he saw Faustina approaching . 
And so , dejected and chagrined , making sickly attempts to utter their thanks to Abel and to be civil to Faustina , who came out , splendid in silk , and stared at them , the cooper and his wife departed through the gate , and went home to their waiting , vacant house , every room of which seemed conscious of the shame that had befallen them , and the very atmosphere to be heavy and depressed therewith . 
`` Abel , '' said the astonished Faustina , `` what has happened to Mrs. Apjohn ? '' 
The cooper and his wife were hardly yet out of hearing , and , as Abel walked slowly toward his own door , with the beautiful face in the beautiful bonnet by his side , he shook his head and was silent . 
`` I did , '' said Abel . 
Abel saw at once how difficult it would be to hide the secret from her . 
`` Yes , '' said he , resolving to trust her , and relying upon her discretion . 
answered Abel . 
Abel sighed , as he did very often lately ; and the weary , care-worn look he gave his wife was nothing new . 
`` I do n't think she meant to steal , I tell you , '' he said , with some impatience . 
It is n't at all likely , '' added Abel , `` that you or I will ever be tempted to commit so foolish a trespass . 
And as Abel looked at her , he saw , as he had seen many times before when he had refused to credit his perceptions , that there was no beauty of soul , no informing loveliness , in that fair shape ; and that hers was a shallow , selfish , merely brilliant face at the best . 
They entered the house , -- a far more showy dwelling now than when Eliza left it , but to Abel a home no longer . 
For houses , like individuals , have their atmosphere , and a sensitive soul entering your abode can discern , before he speaks with its inmates , whether harmony and blessedness dwell there , or whether it is the lodging of discord and mean thoughts . 
Proud and stern as he was , Abel could not hide from himself how much he missed his foster-sister . 
He missed that even and gentle management of his household affairs , which he had never known how to prize until her place was filled by an extravagant wife and wasteful servants . 
He felt the need of her sympathy and counsel in the worldly troubles that were thickening upon him ; for , somehow , he could never open his heart one these subjects to Faustina . 
The holes in his socks , the wandering shirt-buttons , the heavy bread , the want of neatness and order from cellar to garret , reminded him daily of his loss . 
In his mother 's face he saw , under a thin veil of cheerfulness , perpetual sorrow for Eliza 's absence . 
When he came home to his meals , he thought of the tender spirit that had welcomed him once . 
And in the evening he remembered with regret the books they used to read together . 
Faustina did not like to read , and no book had power to interest her , unless it were one of those high-wrought fictions , romances of unreal life , which disgusted Abel . 
Abel hated Tasso Smith . 
So Tasso , when he was in town , frequently favored the Danes with his choice company . 
Faustina expects him this Sabbath evening . 
Grief swells the baby face at the repulse ; and he hastens for refuge and comfort to his father 's bosom . 
Abel 's countenance , a moment since , gentle and tender , darkens as suddenly when the nice young man walks in . 
And it seemed such a decided hit at Tasso , that he could do nothing but look confused and silly , while Faustina reddened with resentment , and Abel just lifted his eyebrows with a smile of surly humor . 
`` Sermons , I call them , '' said Abel . 
Abel , weary of this unworthy Sunday-evening talk , and perceiving that his mother was a subject of ridicule , felt his wrath boiling up within him . 
Think of Jim Locke with a melodeon , Abel ! '' 
sternly demanded Abel . 
said Tasso ; `` he do n't want a melodeon , more 'n a dog wants a walking-stick . '' 
And Abel glanced contemptuously at Mr. Smith 's rattan . 
Melissa , the servant , now came to help the old lady to bed ; performing , as well as such unsympathizing hands could , the task which always painfully reminded both Abel and his mother of Eliza . 
And now , Abel , full of ire and spleen , arose and left the room , hugging little Ebby in his arms . 
Nothing pleases him , '' sighed Faustina . 
And you must n't let Abel know I 've hinted a word about it , nor any one else . 
`` But then , '' laughed Faustina , `` Abel charged me strictly not to mention how we found Mrs. Apjohn on her back among the tomatoes , her apron and basket well filled , and honest Turk holding her down , while John skulked behind the cabbages . '' 
`` Yes , '' said Faustina , `` very pleasant weather indeed , '' as Abel , having tucked Ebby away in his crib , reëntered the room and sat down . 
Morethan one cause was operating , that Sunday evening , to make Abel appear , as Tasso expressed it , crusty . 
if she would only sympathize with me and help me , '' thought Abel , `` I could bear anything ; but she does n't care . 
He glanced at their sleeping child . 
He arose . 
His movements in the room awoke Faustina . 
`` Are you going , Abel ? '' 
`` I have a hard week 's work before me , and I must begin it , '' he answered . 
`` O Abel ! 
A bitter smile contorted Abel 's face . 
he asked . 
`` Do n't you know well enough , '' demanded Abel , `` that I am harassed almost to death with money-matters already ? 
When he was gone , Faustina consoled herself with the reflection that he was the cruelest husband and she the most injured wife in the world ; sighed to think she could n't have a new dress immediately , and went to sleep again . 
For three days Abel struggled manfully with the obstacles in his way ; and when his utmost was done , he wanted still a hundred dollars to make up the necessary amount . 
A small sum to you , flush reader , but an immense one at that time to Abel Dane . 
But on the fourth day he entered the house with tears of joy in his eyes . 
asked his mother . 
exclaimed Abel . 
Faustina , who had not yet got over the feeling that he was an inhuman husband and she an injured wife , and did not neglect to manifest , by her morose conduct , how much she was aggrieved , was almost surprised out of her sulkiness by this strange announcement . 
Whilst he was putting the draft away in the drawer which contained the money he had raised , and his mother was inwardly offering up a prayer of thankfulness for this favor to her son , Faustina was saying to herself , `` Well , I should think he might let me have a new dress now , if I have to run in debt for it . '' 
If Abel was only a man of taste ! '' 
`` Do n't talk of Abel . 
Then , looking once more at the ornaments he had left upon her person , remembering Abel and his payments , and realizing fully , for the first time , what she had done , a guilty fear came over her , and she ran to call Tasso back . 
Too late ; he was already out of sight . 
exclaimed Abel , coming in to dinner . 
Faustina , '' Abel added , with real tenderness , `` if you could know what an ordeal I have passed , and the relief it is now , to feel that I have in the drawer there the means to help myself out of the worst place I was ever in , you 'd forgive me for refusing you money as harshly as I did , and be glad I did refuse you . '' 
The jewels , which she had hastily hidden away at his coming , were no solace now , but only a terror to her soul . 
What would he do when he found he had been robbed ? 
What would he say when he learned how she had squandered the missing money , and for what ? 
Could she hope to pacify him by a display of the baubles which had , in the hour of temptation , seemed to her more precious than his honor and his peace ? 
His scorn and wrath , if he should see them , she could well imagine . 
Abel perceived her flush and agitation ; but , remembering how sullen she had been since he refused her the money she required , he thought her resentment had taken some new form , and was not surprised at it . 
`` The difference would be , '' replied Abel , `` that in helping myself out of the well , the chain I am to climb up by would lack just so much of reaching down to my hand . 
`` Not with you in the house , '' replied the confiding Abel . 
Faustina , '' he said , cheeringly , `` do n't look so gloomy . 
He folded her in his arms . 
He was so thankful and happy that he desired to bless her also with the overflow of his large heart . 
She suppressed her feelings as well as she could till after he was gone . 
He had eaten his dinner , and departed full of joy in his present good fortune and hope for the future . 
She could imagine him unsuspectingly welcoming Mr. Hodge , taking out the money to pay him , and starting suddenly appalled by the discovery of her theft . 
Now , breathless , in her own room she stands ; takes off her things , and arranges her hair before the glass ; incorporates Mrs. Apjohn 's note with the sum which Abel had saved , inventing a score of arguments towards self-justification ; hides away the miserable jewels ; and then , forgetful of her engagement with Tasso , establishes herself at the window to watch , through the curtains , for Mrs. Apjohn 's return . 
Abel comes home to supper , and is , at first , pleased with the change in his fair young wife . 
She greets him with a serene aspect . 
He half-suspects that she means to coax money out of him by putting on these fascinations . 
So that Abel hardly knows whether he ought to feel gratified , or view her behavior with suspicion . 
He therefore concludes that what he said to her at noon has produced a salutary effect . 
She evidently regrets her late extravagance and unreasonableness ; means to be a better wife to him than she has been ; and is now trying hard to appear contented with her lot . 
Regarding in this light the part she is playing , he can well forgive her for overdoing it . 
And once more he hopes -- as he has so often vainly hoped before -- that happier days are at hand . 
Alas , Abel ! 
It is Mr. Hodge , come to have his settlement with Abel . 
Fortunately , Mr. Hodge and Abel are talking and do not observe her . 
There she leaves the candle with Abel and the visitor , and pretends to return to the kitchen , but finds some excuse to linger at the door and listen . 
`` Well , '' exclaimed Abel , looking over his money , `` I did n't know I had a bill on the Manville Bank ! 
`` Yes ; but I do n't see how I could have that bill in my possession , and not know it , '' says the puzzled Abel , while Faustina 's heart throbs suffocatingly . 
Hodge soon after took his departure , which now proved as serious a cause of disturbance to Faustina as his coming had been ; for he carried away with him the irrevocable bank-note , to which his attention had been drawn in such a manner that he could not fail to remember and trace it back to Abel , in case any trouble came of it in future . 
Half the night she lay tormenting herself with fears of detection ; while Abel , for the first time in weeks , slept tranquilly at her side . 
Then she also slept , and dreamed that Mrs. Apjohn 's apron was a huge bank-bill , and that it contained , in place of tomatoes , several red and bleeding hearts , one of which was hers and one Abel 's . 
There was a loud knocking below ; Abel was bestirring himself ; and presently Melissa screamed at their chamber-door , -- `` Mr. Dane ! 
`` Well , well ; I 'm coming , '' answered Abel . 
Abel , half-dressed , hastened to the door , where the cooper met him , with a face as white as chalk and eyes starting from his head . 
`` Good-morning , Mr. Apjohn , '' said Abel . 
said the cooper , with grief , despair , and bitter reproach in his tones ; `` and it 's you that has ruined me . '' 
WhilstAbel is drawing the poor man into the house and getting from him his story , and whilst Faustina , having overheard the alarming outburst at the door , is quaking with consternation , and trying in vain to harden her heart with indifference and stubbornness , it is necessary to go back a few hours in our narrative , and relate how John Apjohn came to be knocking at Abel Dane 's kitchen in the gray morning . 
And now , while I 'm puttin ' away my things , and the fire 's kindlin ' , you run over to Abel 's and see what time it is . '' 
Not even his wife 's energetic wishes could induce him to face one of the Dane family , after his last humiliating errand to their garden . 
That 's Abel Dane 's work , John ! '' 
Abel Dane would n't do sich a thing as that , '' moaned the cooper . 
If he did n't do it , he has told somebody ; and did n't he promise never to tell ? 
And which is the wust for us , I 'd like to know , -- to have him insult us in this way , or tell all over town , and send somebody else to do it ? '' 
`` It 's Abel Dane , or he 's to the bottom o n't , take my word ! '' 
He never 'd have da 's ' t to do it if I 'd had a man for a husband ! 
I 'll see Abel , and know the truth . 
`` I 'll live to be even with Abel Dane ! '' 
`` I sha n't think of dyin ' till I 've come up with him ! 
`` If he had n't been so ` ily-tongued and ready to promise , I would n't mind . 
I 'll give you that watered silk -- I 'll get Abel to raise your wages -- you shall have those satin shoes you like so . 
there 's Abel calling , and I must go . 
The cooper was sitting with his feet upon the chairround , brooding dejectedly over his knees ; and Abel was endeavoring to soothe and reassure him , when she entered . 
`` Here she is , '' said Abel . 
John lifted his colorless and woe-begone countenance . 
He spoke earnestly . 
He was convinced of her guilt , she thought . 
Abel fixed upon her an expression of severe disapprobation , believing that this vociferous denial of an offence with which she had not been charged , was only a feint to parry the real point at issue . 
`` These are useless words , Faustina , '' he said . 
Flushed with passion , and chafing violently , she turned upon him . 
`` You , Abel Dane ! 
cried Abel , amazed , and utterly at a loss to comprehend her conduct , `` hear me a moment . 
I 'm sorry for you , '' she went on , so rapidly that neither Abel nor the bewildered cooper could put in a word ; `` but you must take care how you accuse innocent people . 
`` Now you touch upon the subject , '' said Abel . 
`` There , Mr. Apjohn , '' said Abel , `` I told you she would clear herself . 
The cooper only groaned , and got down over his knees again , in an attitude of the deepest despondency . 
And he buried his face . 
`` Why , '' said Abel , `` some wretched scamp went last night , -- in the night , was n't it ? '' 
he asked , to divert John Apjohn from his gloom . 
And he thought I had done it , '' continued Abel . 
Thank ye , Abel . 
He bowed with feeble politeness , and , after trying to get into the closet , found his way , with Abel 's assistance , to the outer door . 
cried Abel , encouragingly ; `` do n't take it too much to heart . 
you 're right , Abel , you 're right , and very kind . 
Prudencehad all this while been waiting anxiously for her good-man 's return ; wishing a hundred times , in her impatience , that she had gone herself and settled the affair with Abel . 
The mists were in no hurry to lift from the hills ; the sun took his time to rise , just as if nothing had happened . 
You let Abel soft-soap you to death , I know by your looks ! '' 
`` Prudy , '' answered the cooper , lifting his earnest , melancholy eyes , `` Abel Dane 's an innocent man . 
It 's one of the kivers , -- what ye call 'em s , -- of Abel Dane 's letters . 
Here 's his name o n't , -- do n't ye see ? 
`` Abel Dane ! '' 
It 's jest as plain as day to me now that Abel Dane come here last night and stuck them tomatuses on our door , -- jest as plain as if I 'd seen him do it . 
He had his label ready to put on to ' em , but in takin ' it out of his pocket , he dropped this . 
Who else should have one of his letters ? 
she exclaimed , wiping her eyes with the corner of her apron , `` as I said afore , I ai n't a goin ' to die till I 'm even with Abel Dane , if I have to live to be as old as Methusalem . 
My business is ruther private ; but if Mis ' Dane wants to stay and hear it , I 've no petic ` lar objection . '' 
it 's well for Abel Dane that he hai n't been meddlin ' with our cash . 
only give me a chance , and I 'll make her and Abel smart ! 
I 'd be willin ' to lose a little money , if I could prove Abel Dane had stole it . 
I left it in Parker 's hands ; he must look to Hodge , and Hodge must look to Abel ; and Abel , -- let him be prepared to give a pretty strict account of how he come by that bill , or it 'll go hard with him ! 
He 'll have trouble , or I 'll miss my guess ! 
Abel , flattering himself that his pecuniary difficulties were ended , sat down that evening to enjoy himself . 
Fancy Faustina 's alarm at hearing that name , and seeing Abel 's honest eyes look over the tea-table at her , as he put the question . 
`` You need n't be so frightened , '' he laughed . 
But what is curious , '' added Abel , `` I ca n't remember receiving that particular bill , though I noticed it when I was settling with Hodge last night . 
`` I should think youhad been accused of stealing , and might be guilty , '' Abel jestingly said . 
Then , as he watched her , a grave suspicion crossed his mind , -- that , notwithstanding her positive denial of the fact in the morning , it might be through some complicity or indiscretion on her part that the affront for which vengeance was now threatened had been put upon the Apjohns , and that her agitation arose from the consciousness of having thus brought him into danger . 
`` Faustina , '' said he , with deep seriousness and kindliness , `` if we are aware of having committed any fault by which our neighbors are aggrieved , we ought to acknowledge it , and , if possible , make reparation for it . 
These words she recalled , and again the dread of Abel 's condemnation dismayed her , and Tasso 's prediction , that the Apjohns , though they should try , could prove nothing , comforted her ; and the false wife , in an evil moment , looked up at her deceived husband with feigned wonder , and replied , -- `` I ca n't think of anything I 've done , Abel . 
`` Well , then , never mind , '' said Abel . 
Abel was convinced ; for that creature could assume a seeming that might have deceived even the elect ; and , shoving back his chair with satisfaction , he called to Melissa , who showed her face at the door with Ebby in her arms . 
-- tickling him . 
-- standing him up on his knees in a royal attitude ; for he was a proud and splendid child . 
And , with a sense of his own blessedness , and with a gush of affection , he clasped the happy boy to his heart . 
said Ebby , with his chubby fingers in the paternal hair . 
Abel had risen , and was carrying Ebby gayly on his arm , when , as they passed the door , there came a rap upon it . 
But Abel , joyous of countenance , and free of soul , feeling , like Romeo , `` his bosom 's lord sit lightly in his throne , '' -- ignorant that the gleam , which illumined that moment in his life , was not sunshine , but a flash out of the gathering thunder-cloud , -- the young father , holding up his boy with one hand , threw open the door with the other , and met the sheriff face to face . 
He shook hands with Abel , -- for they were well acquainted , -- and gave a hard finger to the fat little hand which , at the paternal instigation , Ebby bashfully stuck out to him . 
cried Abel , thinking of him only as friend Wilkins , and not once connecting him with his commission . 
cried Abel . 
And mamma had no word or look for baby , in the consternation of thinking the sheriff was there to arrest some one , -- it might be Abel , -- it might be herself ! 
crowed Ebby , throwing up his arms with delight . 
He liked papa best of anybody at all times ; and now he and papa were going to have an adventure . 
Then Abel , bearing the babe , returned into the house ; and Faustina , like the guilty creature she was , started back from the window , and stood , white and still as the moonlight without , waiting to hear the worst . 
Abel came up to her , with a curious expression of amusement and disgust , -- a smile married to a scowl . 
he said . 
growled Abel . 
added Abel , with mocking levity . 
For an instant , Faustina thought she was arrested too , and that this was his mild way of breaking it to her . 
he laughed ; `` do n't take it so seriously . 
She may as well not know it , '' continued Abel , the smile dying , and leaving the scowl a grim widower . 
O Abel ! '' 
said Faustina , relieved to learn that it was he , and not herself , who must go , yet terrified at the consequences of her folly . 
Abel put his right arm about her tenderly , still holding Ebby with the other . 
exclaimed Abel . 
`` No , Abel ! 
he answered , haughtily . 
`` But -- you forgave Mrs. Apjohn , '' she reminded him , almost pleadingly . 
-- I could no more take my neighbor 's cash than I could take his life ; and I do n't suppose anybody really thinks I could . 
And she put her lovely arms about his neck and kissed him . 
`` Good-by , '' he said , more convinced than ever of late that she loved him . 
she murmured , kissing him again with lips as chill as dew . 
`` Now , mamma , take Ebby , '' said Abel , with moist eyes . 
And he flirted his ungrateful hands , and kicked his unfilial feet , when she reached to receive him ; and lamented , and screamed `` Ebby go ! 
said Abel , with strong parental emotion . 
And Abel looked proud and gratified , though perplexed , when the subtle-sensed child , shunning the guilty parent with all his might , put his arms about the neck of the innocent , and hugged him with all his heart and strength . 
cried Abel , with laughter and tears , little guessing how much more there was in the divine instincts of the infant than even his words had expressed . 
Then Ebby loosed his hold , stayed only to kiss the father he loved , one long kiss over his whiskers , put out his hands to Melissa , and , without a murmur , only the corners of the little serious mouth drawn down , went to her unresistingly , though he still refused the hospitality of the maternal bosom . 
These were Abel 's parting words ; and , rejoining the sheriff , he walked off gayly with him to the magistrate 's . 
`` O Mis ' Dane ! '' 
`` Seein ' Abel 's off , thought I 'd drop in . 
`` He wo n't come home to-night , I suppose . 
It was Abel Dane . 
He was softly whistling a lively air , to which his feet kept time . 
He had not yet seen the inside of the big stone jug , as the jail was called , and did n't think now that he ever would . 
He had had the good fortune to gain a hearing before the magistrate that night , and to get admitted to bail . 
And Abel was happy ; congratulating himself that Mrs. Apjohn 's malice was baffled , and enjoying , in pleasant anticipation , Faustina 's surprise and delight at his unexpected return . 
For Abel , poor fellow , was so eager to snatch at every bubble of circumstance in which his hope of fancy saw glimmer some floating , unsubstantial image of domestic happiness ! 
He was rushing to grasp a very large and extremely flattering bubble of this description now . 
His wife 's distress , on seeing him torn from her embrace and dragged away to jail , -- so to speak , -- had moved him greatly . 
`` After all , '' he thought , `` she loves me . 
he murmured aloud , his eyes upturned mistily to the moonbeams , his features glowing and surcharged with the emotion of his prayer . 
He hurried on . 
He saw a light in his own house . 
He drew near . 
He heard -- what ? 
That did not please him so well . 
He listened . 
He went to the kitchen door ; it was unfastened . 
He entered , and closed it after him . 
The moon lighted his steps , and he advanced , stepping noiselessly , to the sitting-room door . 
His purpose to afford Faustina a surprise had become a dark and deadly purpose , and the blackness of darkness clothed his soul . 
He waited ; for , in that first terrible revulsion , he felt that Tasso could not fall into his hands without danger , and he feared the violence of his own rage in confronting Faustina . 
Do you think this dishonorable in Abel ? 
In his place you would very likely have acted dishonorably too . 
Over him stood Abel , and in Abel 's hand was the chair which had been jerked from beneath him . 
And there was danger in the atmosphere , as the sagacious youth sniffed readily when once he put out his head carefully from under the table and carefully drew it back again . 
He had done curing the toothache , and done tittering , too , for that night . 
`` Abel ! 
Abel stood motionless and white , still clinching the chair , as if diabolically tempted to break it over the head of Tasso , rising from behind the table and retreating , with the grimace of a scared monkey , to the door . 
`` Why -- Abel -- what 's the matter ? '' 
Do n't cast me off , Abel , -- do n't ! 
`` I bought them , Abel . '' 
Oh , I 'll be so true always , always , Abel ! 
said Abel , -- hoarse , bewildered , chills of a strange new terror creeping over him . 
Abel dropped her arm and staggered back . 
He knew all . 
No need for her to tell him more . 
But she was n't there when I took it ; and I did n't dare to go and tell her of it , -- and you had paid the money to Mr. Hodge , -- and , -- O Abel ! 
Abel had sat down . 
Under the calamity that had smitten him , he could not stand . 
He felt weak and shattered and lost . 
she prayed , creeping toward him . 
She is nothing to you , and I am your wife ; and such a wife I will be to you , O Abel ! 
It was Tasso 's glass , which had been thrown down and broken when he fell . 
Sobered more and more , she felt now how unpardonable that scene must have appeared in Abel 's eyes . 
It was the brandy , it was the brandy , Abel ! 
Do n't , do n't look at me so , Abel ! '' 
And she grovelled at his feet . 
Still he made no motion , but sat as he had fallen , with a blind and frozen look , which well might awe Faustina . 
`` Abel ! 
dear Abel ! 
She kissed his feet . 
-- looking up in his face with pleading sweetness and tears . 
`` You are so good , Abel ! '' 
And she flung herself upon his bosom , kissing and clinging with the witchery she knew so well how to use . 
But Abel was inexorable . 
Her caresses -- he loathed them . 
said he . 
She turned from him with such semblance of despair that he could not but relent a little . 
she answered , fawning upon him , and covering his hand with kisses . 
Then he stooped , sternly commanding her , and lifted her up . 
`` Oh , you hurt me , Abel ! 
said Abel . 
`` Pity me , pity me , Abel ! '' 
`` Dear Abel , Ipity you . 
For a minute he stood in a sort of trance , his visage pallid and awful , his eyes fixed on vacancy . 
She watched him , in dread and distress , waiting for him to look at her and speak . 
`` Faustina , '' he said , with deep and strange calmness -- but there was something sepulchral in his voice , -- `` do you know that I am under bonds to answer for your crime ? '' 
he repeated . 
And you will spare me , Abel ! 
dear Abel ! 
`` No , no , Abel . 
He smiled ; but his smile was even more frightful to her than his frown . 
`` Do n't frighten me so , Abel ! 
answered Abel . 
A powerful emotion shook him , as he looked upon her , so young and beautiful and proud , and thought of her ruin and disgrace . 
`` I will certainly kill myself , Abel ! '' 
he answered . 
She followed him , walking in a sullen stupor . 
He conducted her to her chamber , -- their chamber heretofore , -- where Ebby lay sweetly slumbering . 
He led her to the bedside ; and there they both stood for some moments gazing upon the lovely little sleeper , each with what different thoughts ! 
`` Go to bed , '' then said Abel . 
She obeyed him without word or resistance . 
He waited till she had lain down . 
Then he put his arms gently about the unconscious babe , and took him from her side . 
But leave me my child , -- ourchild , Abel , -- wo n't you ? '' 
And bearing the dewy-cheeked infant in his arms , Abel went out , closed the door behind him gently and firmly , and entered another room . 
In the bed that had been Eliza 's he laid down his precious burden , and threw himself heavily down beside him . 
said Ebby , waking , and glad to find the whiskers he loved on his face . 
And stretching up his little arms , he hugged the dear good head of his father to his sweet moist bosom . 
Abel sobbed . 
And there he lay , thinking of his desolation and remembering his sins . 
Who could help him ? 
Abel longed for human sympathy and aid . 
And he thought of one whom he had wronged . 
he said , and gnashed his teeth . 
he repeated , thinking of those who , out of all the world , might be of service to him then . 
A soothing influence stole over him , as he thought of her . 
Something of her spirit seemed still to pervade the room ; and he found rest in it . 
His longing for her , the cry of his inmost soul became irresistible . 
He arose , and penned the brief letter which called her home ; then returned to bed , drew Ebby to his heart , and slept the sleep of the innocent . 
It is a plain , earnest face you see under the brown bonnet , -- pale , in the moonlight , and full of anxious thought , -- gazing toward Abel 's house . 
The feeling of the old , frequented paths under her feet ; the familiar scent of the soil and trees ; Abel 's shop , Cooper John 's shop , and Cooper John 's squatty house , which always to her mind bore such a ludicrous likeness to good Mrs. Apjohn ; again , the night-fog stealing up from the hollow , mingled with which comes an indefinable , tantalizing sense of change in the native atmosphere of the town ; something , after all , foreign and forbidding in the features of the landscape lying dim in the moonlight ; -- all this makes her strangely afraid and strangely glad . 
Will Abel 's face be the first to meet her , or the beautiful Faustina 's , which she somehow dreads , or dear old Mrs. Dane 's , benevolent and beloved ? 
`` Is Abel -- Mr. Dane -- at home ? '' 
Abel did not expect she would be , it is evident . 
Since he had been so long reticent and cold , ought she not to be ashamed of her ready and ardent zeal ? 
`` Abel ! 
Abel ! '' 
This , then , is Abel 's trouble , Eliza thinks . 
His wife is ill , -- perhaps dying , -- and she has been sent for to save for him that precious life . 
`` Will Abel be home soon ? '' 
and I 'm kind o ' skeery , folks bein ' sick so , and Abel away from home . 
`` I was lonesome , so I kep ' him up for comp ` ny ; but , la ! 
he dropt right off to sleep , jest as he never willevenings when we want him to . '' 
O fortunate Abel , parent of that darling boy ! 
Then she says , calmly , -- `` He looks like Abel , I think . '' 
`` Yes 'm , '' assents Melissa , `` he dooes . 
Most folks thinks he favors his pa the most . '' 
`` How long has his mother been sick ? '' 
`` And Abel is in jail to-night ! 
`` Oh , he ai n't ! 
He 's innocent , ye know . 
And they ca n't keep him in jail , can they ? 
`` How do you know he is innocent ? '' 
`` Oh , I do n't know -- only -- his wife says he is ! '' 
`` If she says so , and thinks so , why does she give up to the shame and misery of the thing , and keep her bed , instead of rising , like a woman , to cheer and help him ? '' 
My Abel ! 
Has she heard about Abel ? '' 
`` I guess he told her yesterday , '' answered Melissa , finding a dry edge of her apron to wipe up with . 
Now , with slow footsteps and a leaden heart , Abel Dane came home to his dishonored house . 
For some moments he stood gloomily outside , without the courage to enter . 
His wife sullen and mad with he knew not what remorse or shame , his child worse than motherless , his own mother broken-hearted by the disgrace of his arrest , though she knew not all ; -- what was then left to him ? 
And Eliza had not come , as he believed , and would not come , he feared . 
He opened the door . 
`` Implicitly , Abel . '' 
Abel was strangely affected . 
insisted Ebby , trying to put his thumb into her nose . 
Abel trembled , and clinched his teeth hard , and tried to fix his features , which worked and quivered in spite of him . 
interrupted Abel . 
-- a new revelation had suddenly broken in upon Abel , -- `` one mystery is explained ! 
And Abel bent his face upon her hand , which he wrung and kissed with mingled gratitude and self-reproach . 
And somehow the emotion he betrayed thrilled a nerve of joy in her breast . 
said Abel , `` do n't heap such coals on my head ! '' 
Abel 's forehead gloomed . 
He thought of the guilty woman , cowering in the bedclothes in the chamber , waiting to hear her doom from him . 
He remembered her anguish and her prayers , and knew that he held her destiny in his hands . 
It was easier to bear himself the obloquy , and , if needful , suffer punishment in her stead ; for she was still his wife , -- the mother of his boy . 
He could not forget that ; and what would life be worth to him after giving her up to ignominy ? 
She might more than recompense him for the loss of a selfish , shallow-hearted wife . 
But he chased instantly the unworthy thought from his mind . 
`` Sister , '' he said solemnly , lifting his head , after a moment 's heavy thought , -- and there was an ague in his voice as he spoke , -- `` I shall tell you all I can honorably tell you , be sure ; for I must have your sympathy and trust . 
While she was speaking , Eliza delivered Ebby to Abel , and prepared to accompany her . 
And the night passes over them and over all , -- aged watcher , youthful dreamer ; Abel in the chamber apart , at peace , with Ebby at his side ; and Faustina , moaning in her sleep with evil dreams , or starting awake by fits , to find herself alone , and bite her pillow with convulsive teeth until she sleeps again . 
`` I ca n't see a sign of their gittin ' out to meetin ' , '' she observes , looking out of the window towards Abel 's house . 
In the meanwhile very different scenes are passing in Abel 's house . 
And , but for Ebby prattling yonder , watching his new `` mamma '' with pleased eyes , Abel could almost fancy his married life a wild dream . 
he thinks . 
No such day of rest has he known for months . 
The light of Eliza 's countenance is joy to him ; the sense of her presence is a balm to all his hurts . 
He looks at his mother 's dear old face , freshly washed with dews of gladness and gratitude , and shining in the morning brightness of a new hope ; he sees Melissa inspired with unwonted activity and cleverness ; he observes even the dumb inmate , Turk , thumping his susceptible tail against every object he passes , in his restless delight at Eliza 's coming ; he almost forgets the guilty , despairing woman in the chamber , and her crime , which he must answer for ; and still he says in his soul , `` Oh , this indeed is Sunday ! '' 
And the muffins , -- Abel would have known they were of her cooking . 
Taste them wherever he might , he could not have been deceived . 
They had the real Eliza flavor.No such muffins had been eaten in his house since she left it ; and as for that unmistakable flavor , how often had he longed for it , sitting down to an ill-furnished table , and turning heart-sick from the uninviting edibles ! 
Then , sometimes , in the midst of his thankfulness , the recollection of Faustina and of her crime crosses his spirit like an eclipse ; and all the future is darkened . 
Then , too , the aching thought of what might have been , had Eliza never gone and Faustina never come , pierces him . 
And the thought of what may be still , if he will but decide to sacrifice his wife , agitates him like a temptation . 
For he knows now , with certainty , that all hope of happiness with her is shattered ; that , under the thin veneering of her beauty , there is no true grain of character ; that what the deep heart of man forever hungers for , and can find only in the deep heart of woman , -- what he has sought so ardently and long in her , and sought always in vain , -- can never be his so long as she is his ; and that to be her husband now , in aught but the name and outward form , will be a sin against his own divine instinct of marriage . 
It avails not for Abel to put away these thoughts . 
They return : when the small , sprightly , electric form moves before him , or he catches the flash of her sunny glances ; when his ears drink the soft music of her conversation or laughter ; when once more , as in bygone years , in the mild Sunday afternoon , they read together , aloud , in the consolatory Gospels , or the mighty poem of Job ; when their voices blend in singing again the old beloved tunes , and their spirits blend also in a more subtile and delicious harmony ; continually the wishes , the regrets , the passionate yearnings return , with their honey and their stings . 
After supper , Abel went out to walk , to calm his emotions , to cool his spirit in the bath of the evening air , -- to read the riddle of his life , if possible , in the light of the sunset and the stars . 
And as he walked , thinking of the two women , -- her he loved , and her he loathed , -- doubting , hoping , in anguish and humility ; he remembered the prayer of Jesus , and a part of it , which had always been dark , suddenly became clear . 
And he prayed within himself , -- `` O Father in Heaven ! 
This day it had been revealed to him that , by the deeper law of marriage , he and Eliza belonged to each other , -- and that she , with her woman 's nature , supreme in matters of the heart , had recognized the truth , long since , and been moved by it when he deemed her conduct so strange and unpardonable . 
If he had hitherto repented of his unkindness to her , how did he now gnash his teeth at the recollection of his own blindness and madness ! 
At sunset he stood upon a hill , and overlooked a landscape which had all his life been familiar to him ; -- the same earth , the same sky , the spectacle of the sundown . 
But now , for the first time , by some chance , bending his head , he discovered a phenomenon , known to every shrewd lover of nature . 
His eyes inverted , looking backwards under his shoulder , saw the world upsidedown . 
In the cloudless purity of the sky , which had scarcely attracted his attention before , burned the most exquisitely beautiful belts of color , more splendid than any rainbow . 
And Abel said , `` How blind we are to the glories that are always before our eyes ! 
So saying , or rather thinking , or rather feeling , -- for his emotions did not shape themselves in words , -- he turned to descend the hill . 
he repeatedly asked himself , in the sweating agony of his heart . 
He walked far . 
He returned by the common , and stood struggling with himself in sight of his house . 
He could see the windows , behind which his wife lay writhing with terror and shame . 
He could see the door of his house , once more rendered dear to him by her , the very thought of whom could agitate and swell his breast . 
Abelwalked on , strong in his new resolution , and was near his own door , when it opened , and some one came out . 
She was hurrying past him , when he spoke . 
`` Abel ? '' 
she said , with a start , not glad to meet him then . 
Yet she spoke with a hesitation and reserve which dampened his ardor . 
said Abel . 
`` No ; it is natural ; but all will come out right , Abel , I am sure . 
asked Abel , falteringly . 
`` I am happy , Abel . '' 
He was startled . 
That she could be happy , and at peace , while before him was tempestuous darkness , gave him a pang . 
`` Your happiness is not my happiness , '' he said despondingly . 
Reach out to him ? 
And you warned me , '' groaned Abel . 
he exclaimed . 
`` We are sometimes permitted to go very , very wrong , for the benefit the experience will bring with it , Abel . '' 
demanded Abel , with a bitter outburst . 
`` Which you can not answer , '' cried Abel , `` any more than I can . '' 
She spoke with generous sympathy , yet out of the depths of a spirit whose tranquillity and firm faith seemed to remove her farther and farther from his troubled sphere . 
For she perceived his fever and weakness ; perhaps , also , she knew his temptation ; and had fortified herself . 
So that Abel might well exclaim , -- `` You seem nearer to the cold stars up there than to me . 
-- Emotions crowded his voice . 
She stepped aside to drop a letter in the box , then rejoined him . 
murmured Abel . 
A jealous fear overshadowed him . 
He took her hands ; he stood looking down at her pale face in the moonlight for a minute , without a word . 
And the pale face met his gaze with a frank smile in the moonlight . 
`` A man , Abel . 
He gave her wrist a convulsive pressure , then dropped it , and , with a tremendous sigh , drew back from her , almost staggering . 
She took his hand . 
`` What is the matter , Abel ? '' 
She leaned upon his arm , too full of love and pity and regret for the mockery of words . 
`` I am glad you have found friends in your absence , '' he said , after a brief silence . 
`` I think it is better you should know , Abel . '' 
This was not the reply he hoped for . 
Every minute and every word seemed to sharpen the fangs that gnawed his heart . 
He could not endure suspense . 
he demanded , abruptly . 
`` I beg of you , '' said Abel , `` do n't let your regard for us interfere with your happiness , '' -- with something of his irrespressible despair writhing in his voice . 
`` I hope he is worthy of you , '' he added . 
`` I wish , '' she replied , `` that I was half as worthy of him . '' 
They passed on in silence ; his hot thoughts almost stifling him . 
`` But you were to tell me something , '' she reminded him . 
`` It is this , '' said Abel . 
`` I am sure you will , Abel ! '' 
She loved Abel too well , she sympathized with his sorrow too much , to answer now with calm words of counsel . 
Because Abel was married , should she forever obstinately shun the high destiny of woman , -- wifehood and motherhood ? 
Excepting only Abel , this other , of all men , stood highest in her regard . 
She had acquainted him with all the doubts of her heart ; nor had she left him to enter this ordeal of danger without his consent and blessing . 
And in all things , so noble did he appear to her , so dear had he rendered himself by his generosity and truth , that she knew she could make him a true and happy wife . 
Yet once more , to-night by Abel 's side , stirred by his love and grief , the old perturbations arise . 
She was glad that the gate was near , and that Abel did not offer to go in with her . 
`` I shall walk a little further , '' he said . 
muttered Abel , with angry and bitter scorn of himself . 
He walked in the placid and smiling moonlight . 
And something of the silence and vastness and chasteness of the night glided into him . 
His thoughts grew great and solemn and tender . 
To go to prison for another 's sake did not seem much to him then . 
He murmured Eliza 's name with a prayer for her happiness . 
He thought of Faustina with gentleness and compassion . 
He remembered how near his mother 's feet were to the still portals of eternity , and smiled . 
Only when he thought of his child he wept . 
For his child 's sake he would willingly humble himself ; and , seeing a light in the cooper 's house , he bethought him to go in , and try if it were possible to conciliate the enemy . 
He looked aghast at Abel . 
he said . 
Prudy came out of the bedroom , presently , in her petticoat , with a shawl over her shoulders , nodding sarcastically . 
she carelessly inquired , arranging a corner of the shawl the better to cover her portliness . 
said Abel , holding out his hand . 
`` Peace , Abel Dane ? 
But you 'll see , -- you 'll see , Abel Dane ! 
Abel commenced , protesting his innocence of the string of `` tomatuses . '' 
`` My worthy woman , '' then said Abel , seating himself , and speaking candidly and earnestly , `` I have come to talk with you as neighbors should talk , and I beg of you to hear me with patience and without prejudice . '' 
`` Furthermore , '' said Abel , `` I pledge you my honor that whatever reparation can be made for the injuries you complain of , shall be made . 
Question your own conscience before you answer , '' said Abel , foreboding evil from the grimace and toss with which she prepared to reply ; `` and consider whether you can afford to be unmerciful ; remembering that what mercy we show shall be shown to us . '' 
Prudence pulled her shawl together nervously and compressed her lips , and elevated her chin and said , -- `` Wal , Abel Dane , you 've had your say ; now hear me.Nobody can accuse me of havin ' an Injin temper ; and you ca n't say ' t ever in all my life I spoke of you one misbeholden word . 
I feel bad for you , Abel Dane ; and , as I said , I only wish it was her that I could prove took the money ; then if she would n't smart for ` t , I miss my guess . '' 
Abel sighed ; for now he saw how vain it would be to shift the responsibility of the theft from himself to his wife , in the hope that their enemy would be more merciful to her than to him . 
`` You are a hard-hearted woman , '' said Abel , sadly smiling , as he rose to go . 
`` I tell ye , I never laid up anything ag ` in you , Abel ; and if it wa 'n' t for that stuck-up critter , your wife , we never 'd quarrel ; though I do n't know but you 're ` bout as bad as she is now . 
The emotion in Abel 's voice would have shaken Prudence , if it had been possible to shake her . 
`` Very well , '' answered Abel , sternly and impressively . 
And , with sarcastic courtesy , Mrs. Apjohn lighted him from the door with the candle . 
Eliza had retired with the old lady to her room , when Abel returned home . 
He found the kitchen forsaken , silent , and lighted only by the pale shimmer of the moon . 
He entered the sitting-room ; that , too , was forsaken , silent , and lighted only by the pale shimmer of the moon . 
There was something in the aspect of his house that struck like desolation to his soul . 
Half an hour later , he opened gently the door of Faustina 's chamber , and stood at the threshold . 
There he stood , dark and stern , for a minute or two , and looked in . 
said Abel . 
Abel was touched ; as no doubt Faustina meant he should be , when he should learn what the yearning , maternal heart of her had prompted . 
she heard his deep voice demand . 
`` Take him to bed , '' said Abel . 
Then Abel shut the door , and sat down by the bed . 
Abel gazed at the vortex of bedclothes in which she had coiled herself , and sighed , and clenched his teeth hard , and waited . 
was this his marriage-bed ? 
he continued . 
He was in no hurry ; he took his time ; deliberate was Abel , -- a good deal more so , she thought , than he would have been , had his own head been under the blanket . 
`` If you have nothing to say to me , '' Abel resumed , at last , `` I have still a few words which I want you to listen to . 
At that , the arms were suddenly disengaged , the clothes thrown back , and staring eyes rolled up wildly at Abel , from a tragic face still half concealed by rumpled pillows and tangled hair . 
exclaimed Abel , astonished and heartsick at the sight . 
Abel sighed deeply , and waited patiently for her to come up to breathe again , which she was not slow in doing , then said , -- `` When you are calm , and in your right mind , I will speak . '' 
What if she could convince him she was insane , -- overwhelm him with a spectacle of the wreck his hard-heartedness had made of her ? 
This is what she did : She sat up in bed , swept her hair from her face with both hands , in a terrific frizzled mass , stared at Abel again frightfully , rolled her eyes hideously , grinned idiotically , chattered her teeth , and burst into a laugh of frenzy . 
And Abel thought her dead . 
He stood like one stunned , gazing at her with a stony wonder , his lips parted , and his hair lifting with horror . 
Deep , solemn gladness , an awful hope , mingled with his fear . 
He looked across the bed at Eliza , for she was there , -- all the women in the house having been summoned by the hysteric shrieks . 
'T is pity , for now might we bring our tale joyfully to a close , would she but revive enough to make a free confession , before witnesses , of her sins against the Apjohns , murmur her repentance , ask to see a clergyman , place Eliza 's hand in Abel 's , declare they are for each other , smile contentedly , and die at a most convenient season . 
ejaculated Abel , remembering that a few drops of his little store of spirits had been saved by his timely interruption of a certain convivial entertainment , not many nights ago . 
And the result was that Faustina came duly back to consciousness , without having been stood upon her head ; and Abel had -- shall we say the satisfaction ? 
But by this time all his unworthy thoughts and wicked wishes regarding her had given place to repentance and pity . 
And as soon as he could dispense with assistance , he sent the rest away , and remained alone to watch by her bedside . 
`` No , no , '' said Abel , confidently , `` you shall not die . '' 
`` I know you did n't , '' he answered , kindly . 
She looked up gratefully into his face . 
`` Oh , you are good , Abel ! 
And he touched his lips to her cheek . 
`` I hope so , '' he replied , to quiet her . 
`` Oh , and you will not '' -- He knew what she would say . 
`` No , I will not , '' he promised . 
and she covered his hand with kisses . 
she cried , in an ecstasy of gratitude ; `` you are such a good Abel ! 
But Abel 's brow was dark . 
`` You must keep quiet , Faustina , '' he said . 
`` I want you to live , '' replied Abel , in a low voice , out of a conscience grim as night . 
`` Come to bed then , -- wo n't you , my Abel ? '' 
Abel 's hand pressed his bosom . 
And he watched by her side all night . 
And the lamp burned out , and the moon set upon his watching , and the sun rose . 
And Abel had not said to her what he entered her room that night to say ; but he kept that also locked in his breast . 
He promptly and generously replied : -- `` Your place seems to be there for the present ... I trust all to you ; for I know you will do what is right . '' 
And more , -- she placed what was left of her savings at Abel 's disposal . 
It was a grief for him to be obliged to accept still further pecuniary assistance from her . 
And she forced her earnings into his hands . 
he exclaimed . 
`` But your marriage , '' said Abel . 
`` I -- am glad he is well off , '' faltered Abel , with an indescribable contraction of the heart . 
And for ours , too , Abel , '' she added , frankly . 
`` For you will need more than I have , to pay your lawyers ; he mentions that in his letter , and offers to lend you . '' 
This was rather too much for proud Abel Dane . 
He choked upon it a minute , and wrung her hand . 
`` Thank him for me . 
So it was settled that Eliza should remain till after Abel 's trial . 
And there was need ; for the old lady could not endure even the thought of her going ; and Ebby clung to his new mamma ; and Faustina continued a prey to depression and nervous caprice ; and both the management and cheerfulness of the household depended upon Eliza . 
With the feverish details of those days , -- how Abel bore himself in that shameful public position , confronting the abusive attorneys , the grave judges , the silent twelve , and the open-mouthed multitude ; what his mother suffered , awaiting the result which was to decide not his fate only , but which would also prove a word of life or death to her ; and how Faustina experienced a plentiful lack of amusement during those two days and nights , -- it is needless to weary the reader . 
It was the wish of Abel 's lawyers to have both his wife and mother present in the court-room . 
But old Mrs. Dane was already worn out with anxiety in his behalf , and he knew that it was not possible for her to support the fatigue and agitation of witnessing his arraignment . 
With two invalids to care for , Eliza could not easily leave , to go and sit by Abel 's side in this hour of doubt and peril . 
`` They say his wife used to be a great belle , '' said a red-cheeked maiden . 
Unlucky day for her , though , when she married that sneaking Abel Dane . '' 
`` So you set it down he 's guilty , '' whistled the old woman . 
`` Nobody doubts that , that knows him as well as I do . '' 
`` They say his conduct has broke her heart . '' 
`` She 's been sick a-bed ever since he was took up , -- apprehended , ye know , '' -- hastening to amend his speech with the more elegant word that occurred to him . 
`` What a shame , to disgrace his family that way ! '' 
`` He might at least have had some regard for his wife ! '' 
Nobody mean enough to -- perpetrate such a thing , without it 's Abel Dane ; as anybody that knows him '' -- `` Tasso Smith , you are a liar ! '' 
-- this Abel Dane ? '' 
Give way a little there , you square-shouldered fellers ; let this young woman pass in ; she 's the man 's sister , -- Abel Dane 's sister ! '' 
Eliza almost forgot to breathe , and leaned faintly upon the rail before her , as she thought that the fate of Abel lay in the voice of these twelve men , and that in another instant she might hear his doom pronounced . 
When Eliza recovered the mastery of her senses , she saw , as in a dream , Abel standing up in court , erect and pale ; and heard some one inquiring if he had anything to say why sentence should not be passed upon him . 
Abel 's voice was deep and agitated , as he answered , -- `` I have nothing to say , but once more to protest my innocence , and that is idle now . 
Abel , after hesitating a moment , as if there was more he would have said , passed his hand across his forehead , and sat down . 
But he was presently required to stand up again , and receive the sentence of the court . 
Abel hid his face with his hand for a minute , struggling with the emotions that had well-nigh mastered him , then stood up , stern and calm . 
In the midst of the hushed and crowded court-room , -- confronting the jury that had pronounced him guilty , and the judge who was to declare his sentence , -- the focus of a thousand eyes which well might burn his cheeks to coals , or whiten them to ashes , -- the one absorbing object of pity , or wonder , or gloating satisfaction , to all those packed benches , and thronged windows and doorways , -- a spectacle also , no doubt , to bands of angels , weeping over the weakness of human judgments , or tenderly smiling with joy at the divine wisdom which underlies them , and works through them , and changes the bitterness of wrong into the sweetness of mercy at last , -- there , on that wild December day , which blinded the windows with snow , and darkened all the air with storm , Abel Dane , the carpenter , stood up to receive the doom of a felon . 
Next , the enormity of Abel 's crime against society was duly made clear to him . 
He was also reminded of the obligation he was under to feel grateful for the enlightened process of law by which he had been convicted , and for the patience and impartiality with which his case had been heard . 
It now remained to determine the punishment , which should be at once a just retribution for his offence , and serve as a solemn warning to other wrong-doers . 
This was the doom of Abel Dane . 
Abel bowed his head , and sat down , and the sentence was irrevocably recorded against his name . 
He was committed to the charge of the sheriff , to be taken from the court to the jail , and thence to be conveyed to the place of his long , weary , ignominious confinement . 
He was marched away by the officers . 
The distant door opened before him and closed again behind him . 
And Eliza , forced into something like calmness by the very intensity of her despair , or stunned by the awfulness of the stroke , or held by a ghastly unbelief , looked about her , -- saw the soulless visage of the judge still sitting there ; the misty sea of faces around ; the windows streaming , as it were , with tears ; the vast , dim , empty space under the dome , but nowhere Abel ; receiving , in that instant of time , upon the tablet of her brain , a picture of blurred desolation , of sickening unreality , to haunt her days thenceforward , and to wake her by night from harrowing dreams . 
And the affairs of the great world went on , and there was joy , and there was laughter , just the same now as when Abel Dane , the convict , was a free and happy man . 
And Abel was innocent ; but what if he had been guilty ? 
On the other hand , how many comparatively honest men , like Abel Dane , have been subjected to punishment and life-long dishonor more by the iniquity of others than their own ? 
If these be riddles to the wise , well may they puzzle the poor wits of honest Abel Dane . 
But was Abel Dane so comforted ? 
Staggering and heavy within him was the soul of Abel , as he stood and looked around him in the jail , and tried to understand , to feel , to be assured of himself . 
Abel indulged in these miserable fancies , as sometimes men , in the most utter hopelessness , will play with the phantoms of hope , -- as the child at its mother 's funeral will gaze on the pallid face ; and though it knows what death is , and that this is death , thinks it impossible but that the closed eyes shall open again and the cold lips smile once more . 
`` Abel ! 
O Abel ! '' 
`` O Abel ! 
`` I say , I try to believe it , '' returned Abel ; `` and I suppose this is all right , if we could only see it so . 
Eliza could only wring his hand and weep . 
he asked . 
I would die for you now , Abel ! 
Abel , you never knew how I loved you , -- I never told you , -- but I will tell you now ; and , oh , if my love could only give you strength and comfort ! 
`` And his ways are best , Abel . 
`` O Abel , how can you say so ? '' 
My horse is at the tavern ; you can drive him home . 
Abel , it will kill her ; she loves you so , and you are all she has ! '' 
I will be his mother ; and I will love him for your sake , Abel . '' 
He may call you mother ; but , darling , do not forget , nor let him forget , that I am his father . 
I could not bear to have him learn to call any one else father , -- even so good a man as your husband . 
`` I am told I shall not be removed till to-morrow , '' said Abel ; `` so any one that wishes to visit me , can do so this afternoon . 
And now , consoled by the thought of returning to him again in the afternoon , she found strength to take leave . 
`` I hope mother will not think of coming with you , '' said Abel . 
Yet '' -- a spasm twitched the muscle of his mouth -- `` perhaps I shall never see her again . 
And he looked up at the gusts of snow driving by the jail-windows . 
She gave the necessary signal ; it was soon opened again , and closed again ; and Abel was alone and she was gone . 
MeanwhileFaustina waited , in torments of anxiety , to learn the result of the trial , -- Abel 's fate and her own . 
Now she went to the window , and looked out upon the tempestuous snow-storm , straining her eyes to see , through the white , driving cloud , Abel or Eliza , or at least some friendly neighbor coming with the news . 
But no Abel appeared ; and nevermore would she behold , in storm or shine , that goodly form of manhood returning home to her as she had seen it countless times and cared not , in the by-gone , wasted years . 
He is nowhere in the storm . 
He is not just beyond the corner of the common , where you could see him but for the dim vortex of snow , as you sometimes fancy . 
He will never come to you again , he will never smile kindly upon you again , at noon or evening , coming from his work , in all this weary world . 
Up to the last she could not believe that Abel would really sacrifice himself for her . 
If conviction became certain , then surely he would save himself by giving her up . 
It was for his interest to preserve her good name , if possible to do so and at the same time avoid suffering the penalty of the law in her place . 
`` Abel ? '' 
Faustina whispered , `` did he -- has he come ? '' 
And whether it was chiefly grief for Abel , or remorse for her own misconduct , or only a selfish sorrow and alarm , who shall judge ? 
It was not her own affliction , it was not jealousy , or vindictive hatred , because of the irremediable wrong she knew this woman had done to her and to Abel , which made her shrink away and close her lips ; but rather a sense of falsehood , and of a deeper wrong concealed , which her sensitive nature scented like a corruption in the very air Faustina breathed . 
Fromthe window of his shop John Apjohn had seen Abel Dane 's wagon arrive and depart again . 
He had been in a measure diverted from his own shame by his conscientious concern for Abel . 
Why , he 's stoppin ' into Abel Dane 's gate , sure 's the world . 
`` I 've seen Abel 's mother . 
For Abel , Prudy , Abel -- he 's sent to State 's prison for five year ' ! 
I 'm as sorry for ol' Mis ' Dane as anybody , and for her little gran ` child , -- he 's a re ' l pooty little boy , and I pity him . 
`` Abel . 
I 'm a goin ' with ol' Mis ' Dane . 
` Lizy and Faustiny and the boy had gone off ; and she was in a dreffle state , sayin ' they 'd insisted on her stayin ' to hum ; but she know 'd she never 'd see Abel agi 'n in the world , if she did n't see him to-day , and she did n't keer for the storm , nor for sickness , nor for nothin ' ; but go she must and would ; and if I 'd harness up and carry her over , she 'd be obliged . 
Old Mis ' Dane ai n't fit to stir out of the house , in the best weather , ` cordin ' to all accounts ; and to start off in sech a storm '' -- `` I 'm a goin ' , Prudy , '' said the voice from the tomb . 
Me and Mis ' Dane I guess 'll about fill up the seat . '' 
Before her was the grated door , through the bars of which he called Abel to approach ; and she heard his slow footsteps coming along the floor of the hollow cell , -- tramp , tramp , -- while each moment there was danger that the swoon she had had in contemplation so long , and kept in reserve , would take vengeance for being trifled with , and master her in good earnest . 
And Faustina , bowing her face upon Abel 's shoulder , clung and wept there until her limbs fairly failed beneath her , and she sank down helplessly upon the jail-floor . 
It was excellent Mr. Wilkins , whom we remember ; the same who went to arrest Abel , and was sorry to see him come out of the house with Ebby in his arms , that moonlight night in autumn . 
He was not one of the brutal , relentless turnkeys you read about in romances , but a man . 
Abel assisted his wife to arise , and led her , reluctant and sobbing , to a bench . 
There they sat down , silent both , a long time , -- he with Ebby in his arms , Faustina weeping still . 
`` Papa , '' said the child , frowning with dislike at the walls , as he glanced furtively around , `` go home , papa ! 
Abel heaved a tremendous sigh . 
Papa ca n't go home any more , '' he said , in a convulsed voice . 
he entreated . 
`` Hush , my boy , '' answered Abel , soothingly , stroking the child 's hair , and kissing again and again his beautiful white forehead . 
`` O Abel , '' uttered Faustina , with wild and stifling grief , `` I ca n't have it so ! 
`` Hard and unjust , truly , '' said Abel ; `` but it must be borne . 
She threw her face down despairingly upon his lap , uttering moan after moan . 
At length she lifted her head , and , with wet , flashing eyes , whispered passionately , -- `` Abel , I am determined ! 
And she made a motion towards rising , -- thinking , no doubt , that Abel , the devoted , would detain her . 
But he did n't . 
Whether he suspected the sincerity of her declaration , or was indeed willing that she should assume the responsibility and odium of her own act , he sat seemingly content to let her do as she pleased . 
She had no more than half-risen when she fell again upon his breast . 
He regarded her with a dreary smile and head-shake , but said nothing . 
she inquired , embracing him . 
`` Ask your conscience , not me , '' said Abel . 
`` It is not to kill yourself , but to live , -- if not for yourself nor for me , for our child here , '' said Abel . 
Faustina eagerly cried ; for truly she had no very lively wish to die ; and to promise that she would devote herself to Ebby out of prison , whilst Abel devoted himself to her in it , struck her as an easy and reasonable compromise . 
`` As for your acknowledging to the world the error for which I suffer , I have no advice to give , '' he went on . 
And he continued : -- `` So this awful calamity may be made a blessing to us all . 
he entreated her . 
He laid his hand upon her head ; and for the moment something of his own overmastering earnestness seemed to pass into her . 
`` I think you will try , '' said Abel . 
said Abel , very heavy-hearted , but full of the tenderness of mercy . 
Ebby cried again , shrinking from his mother , and nestling in Abel 's bosom . 
Vehemently , then , Faustina pledged herself to do all he required of her . 
She would do everything he could wish . 
And once more Abel almost believed in her , and almost hoped . 
`` And Abel ! '' 
`` Speak , and I will say all I can , '' replied Abel . 
`` You know , '' murmured the sorrowful one , -- resuming more and more of her old winsome ways , which became marvellously her depressed and tearful state , -- `` you know , Abel , you have n't been to me what you were before '' -- -LRB- with a shudder -RRB- . 
Abel kept silent a moment , mightily shaken by this appeal . 
He thought of Eliza , -- a wife . 
He recalled his first hopeful and fresh passion for this erring daughter of Eve , -- `` His life and sole delight Now at his feet , submissive , in distress . '' 
And the wreck of himself thrown back upon the world , broken , despised , after five years of shame and insult to his manhood , he well enough foresaw . 
Who would love him , who would comfort him then ? 
She kissed his hand ; she pleaded . 
Oh , would he not give her one word of hope ? 
said Abel , with quivering lips . 
With a cry of joy and gratitude Faustina clasped him , and entered into this strange second engagement with plenteous vows . 
Then Abel spoke to her of his worldly affairs , and finally came to the subject which he had reserved for the last , because what he had to say on that he wished especially to be remembered and esteemed sacred , -- her duty to his mother . 
But hardly had he commenced his earnest charges when , greatly to his amazement and alarm , Mr. Sheriff Wilkins reappeared , jingling keys and opening doors , followed by Eliza and excellent Mrs. Apjohn , who supported between them the feeble , tottering form of old Mrs. Dane . 
Abel , at sight of his mother , set Ebby hastily down and rose to his feet . 
He extended his arms , and , with a cry , she fell forward upon his neck . 
And now Abel , emerging , as it were , from the sea and tempest of his grief , lifted his head , and addressed the Apjohn pair . 
Abel sat with his arms about his mother , endeavoring to solace and soothe her . 
And she was guiltless of any wrong towards Abel : what , then , must have been her pangs had she felt upon her conscience the burden which Mrs. Apjohn was trying to carry off so stoutly , or that which Faustina was laboring to conceal ? 
DEAR mother , '' said Abel , `` it is not so bad as it might be . 
replied his mother , convulsively . 
`` Wal , Mis ' Dane , '' she began , `` I ` spose you mean that for a hit at me and my husband here '' -- `` Not your husband ! 
`` Come , come , mother , '' said Abel , smoothing her thin , gray hair with his troubled hands , as he strove to pacify her ; `` we will blame nobody ; we will bear all patiently , and blame nobody . '' 
I jest as much believed Abel hung them tomatuses on to my door , and stole my money , as that my name is Prudence Apjohn ; and I hai n't seen no good reason yit for changin ' my mind . 
But as for wishin ' Abel Dane to go to State 's prison for five year ' , my husband here he knows I never wished any sech thing ; and I 'm as sorry for ' t as anybody . '' 
Abel had started with surprise ; and the suspicion that alarmed him had entered Mrs. Apjohn 's mind also . 
demanded Abel . 
Abel breathed thick and hard , restraining himself , as he looked upon her and listened to these words . 
Abel was indicted then , and I knew nothing could prevent his having a trial . '' 
Abel groaned . 
Abel groaned again . 
Meanwhile , Abel seized his pitcher -LRB- the prisoner 's solitary pitcher -RRB- , and besprinkled the white face with its contents . 
And she screamed for help , not perceiving that Abel was doing all in his power to summon assistance . 
I 'll listen to his advice always , -- which if I 'd done it in this affair of Abel 's , we would n't none of us be here now ! 
The `` blessedest man '' had been laid upon his back , with Abel 's coat for a pillow . 
`` And O Mis ' Dane ! '' 
Whuther you took the money or not , Abel , I do n't know , and I do n't keer ; for we 're all on us liable to be tempted , '' -- as that virtuous woman knew from experience . 
And as for you , Abel Dane , I 've always sot by you from a boy , and my husband here , he knows '' -- What the sad , gaping , half-stupefied cooper knew did not appear , for the good wife 's speech was lost in inward convulsion ; the snow-mountains of her breast -LRB- to compare great things with things which can hardly be called small -RRB- had melted , and avalanche and torrent were plunging . 
Abel and Eliza had simultaneously observed her sinking . 
`` Abel -- children , '' -- faintly fell the voice of the dying , -- `` where am I ? '' 
Abel lifted up the boy . 
Abel placed him softly there . 
She kissed him with her pallid lips ; she caressed him with her pallid hands , and murmured a blessing ; and Abel took him gently away . 
`` Abel -- my son ! '' 
His hand was taken also ; and , now in the blindness of death not seeing what she did -LRB- though I think the spirit saw , and knew -RRB- , the parting mother placed Eliza 's hand in Abel 's . 
Astounded , plunged in deepest affliction , Abel could not withdraw his hand ; nor could Eliza hers . 
And Abel and Eliza lifted up their eyes , and looked at each other with emotion unutterable ; while Faustina crouched again at the foot of the bed , white and shivering , like an outcast . 
Abel stood and gazed long ; his countenance emerging from its cloud and agitation into a strange , almost smiling tranquility . 
-- He turned to his wife : `` You have now no care but our child ; be faithful and remember . '' 
-- Then , laying his hand upon Eliza 's forehead : `` You are free now . 
Dimmer still grew the afternoon ; and the hour came when the corpse must be carried out , and Abel must look his last upon it , and behold Eliza go with it , to return to him no more . 
And Abel was left alone . 
Where was Abel then ? 
When the sexton tramped through the drifts with pick and spade to the graveyard ; when the customary sermon was preached , and the psalm sung , and the prayer said ; when the little procession followed the corpse to the fresh heap of earth thrown up beside the snowy mound beneath which mouldered the ashes of old Abel Dane , the carpenter , -- the dog Turk walking seriously through the snow by Eliza 's side , leaving the prints of his feet ; when Eliza lifted Ebby up to take a last look of what had been his good old grandmamma 's face , before the coffin-lid was closed and screwed down ; when the coffin was lowered , and the gravel shovelled in upon it , to the sound of the tolling bell ; and the mourners and neighbors returned , dazzled by the sudden glitter of sunshine on the pure , new-fallen snow ; and Eliza entered once more the hollow house , and listened to the drip of the eaves , and the blue sky smiled overhead , and neighbors came and went ; -- where , all this time , was Abel ? 
Side by side now , in the white and quiet field , under the pacified December weather , slept all that was mortal of old Abel Dane the carpenter , and of Abigail his wife ; while Abel , son of the preceding , was buried , mortal part with the immortal , in a very different tomb . 
Would you penetrate that mausoleum of the living , -- behold him with shaven crown , in convict 's cap and coat , the livery of the doomed , -- visit him when he eats , in his whitewashed solitary cell , the crust by the state provided , -- stand by when he subdues his spirit to work under an overseer , at the work-bench of condemed horse-thieves and burglars , his predecessors and companions , -- witness the sweat of his body and the sweat of his soul , the days and nights of his long death ? 
For the first time since the memorable night of his discomfiture , he stops at Abel 's gate , and rings the door-bell with complacent mien ; considering that , by consummate diplomacy and strategic skill , he has , without loss to himself , but through the agency of others , routed his enemy , Abel , whose castle now lies at his mercy ; never suspecting that he himself , like all the rest , is the agent of a Power above them all . 
they think 't was Abel , to this day ! '' 
`` Yes ; in the jail , before Abel , she declared that it was you , as she had certain means of knowing . '' 
`` From Abel ? '' 
Thus Faustina had made haste to break one of her solemn promises to Abel , -- that she would avoid all unprofitable associates ; and it could hardly be expected that her other promises would be kept more sacredly . 
The remainder of the day , and the night that followed , when she should have remembered Abel , in prison for her sake , and have had no care but for his child , what was she feverishly dreaming ? 
I suppose I can live with them , and this house can be let until Abel -- until we want it again . '' 
-- Ebby , -- I was about to say , -- I suppose -- I 'd better not take him with me ; for I do n't know yet what I am going to do . 
If I make such arrangements as I hope to , I will either return for him , or have Melissa bring him to me . 
With regard to Ebby , I have had it in my mind to say to you , that , if you can not conveniently keep him with you , I shall be only too glad to take him . '' 
`` Abel would never consent to such a thing ! '' 
Eliza suppressed some words of bitter truth that rose from her heart almost to her lips ; and , after a little pause , replied calmly , -- `` I ventured to speak to Abel about it . 
And he said that in case you should find it too hard to take care of Ebby , he was willing that I should have him . '' 
`` I 'm not willing , if he is , '' retorted Faustina , decidedly . 
She could not hear the objurgations hurled by her flatterers at the villain husband , the utterly remorseless Abel , who had ruined the hopes and happiness of so beautiful a being . 
She possessed no means to penetrate that beautiful being 's breast , and discover , among the selfish purposes there cherished , the secret determination never to return to the convict 's home again , and never to be troubled with the maintenance of his child . 
So Eliza remained in doubt , and did her duty to Ebby , and wrote to Abel as cheerful and comforting letters as she could , -- letters , by the way , which were not nearly so abundant in protestations of affection and fidelity as those he was at the same time receiving from Faustina . 
Especially since the morning when she returned from Abel in the jail , and entered the room where his wife lay expecting Melissa , had she been conscious of extraordinary confidences between mistress and maid , in which , perhaps , Abel 's honor was concerned . 
If what you know has any connection with Abel 's being in prison , where we are so sure he ought not to be , then , as you fear God more than you do Mrs. Dane , speak ! '' 
By George , I thought she meant to serve me as she did Dane 's tomatoes , -- steal me and cook me and eat me for dinner ! 
Remember what you were saying of Abel at the very time , -- and of Faustina , -- when you knew every word you said was false . 
`` Abel Dane felt himself safe against a false charge , trusting in his own innocence . 
`` Abel is a innocent man , arter all ! 
And he is in for five year ' ! 
and his mother has been killed by it ! 
They were to stop on their way for Melissa ; and Mrs. Apjohn eagerly volunteered to `` run over and take care of the baby , '' during the girl 's absence ; for that solid and sterling woman was now enlisted with her whole body and soul in Abel 's cause , showing herself even more anxious for his deliverance than she had ever been for his condemnation . 
Then , how to proceed , with these instruments , to effect Abel 's liberation , became the important question . 
For now Eliza could not rest , day or night , until the requisite steps had been taken to restore him to honor , and freedom , and happiness . 
Individuals might be easily convinced of Abel 's inocence ; but the law was not an individual . 
She would rely upon the human heart , and upon the justice of her cause ; and nothing should divert her from her purpose , or induce her to waste an hour in idle delay , till Abel was free . 
In addition to the affidavits of Tasso and Melissa , she procured those of John and Prudence Apjohn , in which they , as chief witnesses against Abel , now declared their conviction of his innocence , for reasons assigned . 
She also visited the attorneys who had prosecuted him , the judge who had sentenced him , and each individual of the twelve who had found him guilty . 
To these names she found no difficulty in adding the signatures of a hundred of Abel 's townsmen , including three ministers , a congressman , two ex-members of the State legislature , together with several selectmen , deacons , and other prominent citizens . 
And , armed with her affidavits , her petition , and a formidable legal document which Abel 's counsel had furnished , she set out , one memorable morning , on a journey . 
And so , tremblingly , yet with a brave and resolute heart , she entered the warmly-lighted hall of the house in which she felt that the question of Abel 's destiny was to be finally decided . 
But now the grief she had held back , the suffering of nights and days , kept down by constant activity , the hope and fear she felt , and her deep conviction of Abel 's innocence , -- deeper and stronger than any reason she could give , -- found utterance in a few broken but fervent words of thanks and of entreaty . 
There rose the impassive gray walls , somewhere within which she knew her Abel breathed the air of captivity , that calm winter 's morning , while she breathed the air of freedom without . 
How mournfully and hopefully she walked by them , and far around , viewing them on every side ; with what memories and thrills of tenderness she thought of him there immured , hopelessly plodding , never suspecting how near she was to him ; with what stifled aspiration and rapture she anticipated their next meeting ; and how she lingered , feeling a strange satisfaction in being there , though she could not see him nor make her presence known , -- all this may be imagined , but not told . 
Andnow Abel Dane was summoned from the prison workshop . 
And at the first sound of his voice , at a look out of those deep , glad eyes , she recognized , in the grotesque wight before her , the transformed manhood of Abel . 
How they met ; how she revealed to him the cause of her coming , and put with her own hands into his the governor 's pardon ; and he knew that he was raised from the dead , and that she , his best-beloved was also his deliverer ; -- I am aware what a moving scene might be made of all this . 
Abel was taken in charge by the warden for the last time . 
The clothes he put off at his entrance into prison were restored to him ; and he left behind his convict 's costume , for the benefit of some sad successor . 
Then he rejoined Eliza ; and they quitted the prison together . 
But it was all like a dream to him yet . 
Explanations were needed to relieve his uncertainty and suspense . 
And as they walked the street together , and he tasted with her the sweet air of liberty , and knew that his brief , terrible nightmare of prison life was indeed shaken off , she told him how his redemption had been achieved . 
Abel was troubled . 
In the midst of his gratitude and joy he was grieved for Faustina . 
She was his wife still . 
`` And I had hoped , '' -- he began . 
And , Abel , she is no longer your wife . '' 
said Abel . 
He said this with a great sigh ; hoping perhaps for some word of comforting assurance from Eliza . 
She could hardly control her voice to answer him . 
`` Yes , Abel . 
Abel , I have brought this to show you . '' 
And she gave him the governor 's newspaper , putting her finger on the paragraph his Excellency had pointed out to her . 
Abel read as they walked the street . 
It was a notice of divorces granted ; among which was one to Faustina Dane , from her husband , Abel Dane . 
Grief and indignation convulsed him a moment . 
So saying , with a deep breath of the pure electric air , a sense of relief , a new sense of freedom , and of something deeply and divinely great and glad , entered into him . 
`` Yes , Abel ; it is better . 
Not from the prison of stone alone , but also from the bondage of a false marriage , Abel saw himself , this day , as it were miraculously delivered . 
And he could see how Tasso 's meanness , and Mrs. Apjohn 's spite , and Faustina 's perfidy , -- how all his misfortunes , even that which had seemed the greatest , -- had tended steadily , by sure degrees , to this consummation . 
And here he was , a free man , superior to disaster and disgrace , walking by the side of the woman he loved , and to whom he owed his rescue ; and she , -- her work was now done , and nothing remained but for her to go and bless the husband who had been so long waiting for her , in the home he had proffered , and which she had promised to accept . 
Abel was deeply moved ; and Eliza , it must be owned , felt heavy misgivings as she pressed it unopened into her pocket . 
Then Abel and Eliza alone , -- the clock telling the minutes of midnight ; the long , earnest , tender , sorrowful talk ; -- she , yielding to him one all too sympathetic trembling hand , while with the other she clasps the still unopened letter in her pocket , as if that alone could keep her true to the absent one ; there parting at last , in anguish , after all the joy and triumph of the day , -- he lonely and bereft , she faithful still in purpose to her affianced , despite her most unfaithful heart ; the sound of the door that closed between them , and the utter silence and solitude of the night that followed ; -- at which closing scenes of our drama we can only hint , for were we to relate in detail all that passed , Early the next morning , Abel , `` wrapped in dismal thinkings , '' having vainly endeavored to sleep , sat alone by the fire , in the home to which he had been restored , only , as it seemed , to feel its vacancy , -- Faustina lost , his mother gone , Eliza about to go . 
So Abel thought , disconsolately enough ; reflecting ungratefully that even his saddest night in prison had been happier than this ; when he heard the door softly open , and , looking up , saw Eliza . 
he cried ; -- `` I knew you could not ! 
And the letter of her betrothed , which , after much unhappy delay , she had summoned the resolution to read , she placed in Abel 's hand . 
Ah , different now the times from those long ago , when heplaced in herhand the letter of his love , the beautiful Faustina , and she could not read it for the wrong that was wringing her heart ! 
Abel read with interest , which darkened into pain as he proceeded , then kindled into surprise , and brightened at last into a blaze of triumph . 
Eliza 's letters had not satisfied him ; that she cared more for Abel in prison than for him in the home he had offered her , was but too evident ; and so , without penning a single reproach -LRB- for , indeed , she had dealt truly with him from the first , as he acknowledged -RRB- , but not without profound regret on his part , he begged leave to release her from her engagement . 
`` But , Abel ! '' 
suddenly exclaimed Eliza , disengaging herself from his arms ; and a shadow fell upon her glowing , suffused face . 
Abel asked , starting from the dream that their bliss was perfect now . 
whistled Abel , pursing up his brows ; for he knew this debt had been incurred for his sake , and that she had impoverished herself to fee his lawyers , and could not pay it , and that he had never a cent . 
`` He must be paid , '' said Eliza . 
`` Certainly , he must be paid , '' Abel muttered , plunged in thought , `` but how ? 
He is a noble man : he certainly deserved you , ` Liza , better than I do , I 'm afraid , -- I know ! '' 
feeling with deep humility how selfishly he had acted towards her from the first . 
They sat talking until the morning was well advanced , -- Abel 's mind still perplexed . 
There came a knock at the door , and , Melissa opening it , in walked John Apjohn the cooper , and Prudence Apjohn his wife ; who , having heard of Abel 's return , had hastened to be the first to congratulate him . 
Prudence was radiant , and John was gay and smiling , all his melancholy having been dissipated by the glad tidings of Abel 's release from prison . 
`` And , I was a goin ' for to say , '' said John , with boyish eagerness , -- `` knowin ' as how you was put to ' t for money ` fore the trial , -- I was a goin ' for to say , '' -- `` Fact is , '' -- Prudence snatched the thread of his discourse , -- `` me and my husband here has got three or four hunderd dollars a comin ' in jest about this time , -- money we 've lent in years past , -- an ' as we 've no ' airthly use for it right away , '' -- `` An ' knowin ' ' t you sold off everything , '' struck in the cooper , -- `` an ' you must stand in need o ' somethin' for to give ye a start , '' -- `` An ' if ` twould be any sort o ' ` commodation to you , '' resumed Prudence , `` to have the use o ' that money , ' thout interest , for a year or so , or as long as ye want , till ye git a little ` forehanded agin , -- ' thout interest , '' she repeated , emphatically , -- `` why , you 're welcome to it , you 're welcome to it , Abel Dane , as much as if you was my own son ! '' 
`` O Abel ! 
Abel shook his neighbors heartily by the hand , and thanked them with deeper joy and gratitude than he could express , and of course consented to relieve them of their superfluous hundreds ; sending them home rejoicing . 
The debt was paid , and Abel began life anew . 
And so all things came duly round at last : the circle grew complete , -- Abel obtaining without long delay a divorce from his already divorced wife , and entering with Eliza the path of blessedness into which the devious ways of difficulty and the sometimes dark ways of duty had led them . 
But while Abel consoled himself , and Ebby found indeed a mother in Eliza , she , the beautiful one , married a second time , and lives , as I learn , a gay life . 
