The other young clerk in this office to whom we alluded is Alaric Tudor . 
He is a year older than Henry Norman , though he began his official career a year later , and therefore at the age of twenty-one . 
Of hydraulic pressure and the differential calculus young Tudor knew nothing , and pretended to know nothing . 
He told the chief-clerk that he was utterly ignorant of all such matters , that his only acquirements were a tolerably correct knowledge of English , French and German , with a smattering of Latin and Greek , and such an intimacy with the ordinary rules of arithmetic and with the first books of Euclid as he had been able to pick up while acting as a tutor , rather than a scholar , in a small German university . 
He did not , however , send in a medical certificate , nor apply for a pension ; and the first apparent effect of the little lecture which he had received from the Chairman , was the admission into the service of Alaric Tudor . 
Mr. Hardlines was soon forced to admit that the appointment was not a bad one , as before his second year was over , young Tudor had produced a very smart paper on the merits -- or demerits -- of the strike bushel . 
Alaric Tudor when he entered the office was by no means so handsome a youth as Harry Norman ; but yet there was that in his face which was more expressive and perhaps more attractive . 
Tudor wore no whiskers , and his light brown hair was usually cut so short as to give him something of the appearance of a clean puritan . 
But in manners he was no puritan ; nor yet in his mode of life . 
He was fond of society , and at an early period of his age strove hard to shine in it . 
He was ambitious ; and lived with the steady aim of making the most of such advantages as fate and fortune had put in his way . 
Tudor was perhaps not superior to Norman in point of intellect ; but he was infinitely his superior in having early acquired a knowledge how best to use such intellect as he had . 
His education had been very miscellaneous , and disturbed by many causes , but yet not ineffective or deficient . 
His father had been an officer in a cavalry regiment , with a fair fortune , which he had nearly squandered in early life . 
He had taken Alaric when little more than an infant , and a daughter , his only other child , to reside in Brussels . 
Here Alaric remained till he had perfectly acquired the French pronunciation , and very nearly as perfectly forgotten the English . 
He was then sent to a private school in England , where he remained till he was sixteen , returning home to Brussels but once during those years , when he was invited to be present at his sister 's marriage with a Belgian banker . 
At the age of sixteen he lost his father , who on dying , did not leave behind him enough of the world 's wealth to pay for his own burial . 
His half-pay of course died with him , and young Tudor was literally destitute . 
His brother-in-law , the banker , paid for his half-year 's schooling in England , and then removed him to a German academy , at which it was bargained that he should teach English without remuneration , and learn German without expense . 
Whether he taught much English may be doubtful , but he did learn German thoroughly ; and in that , as in most other transactions of his early life , certainly got the best of the bargain which had been made for him . 
At the age of twenty he was taken to the Brussels bank as a clerk ; but here he soon gave visible signs of disliking the drudgery which was exacted from him . 
Not that he disliked banking . 
He would gladly have been a partner with ever so small a share , and would have trusted to himself to increase his stake . 
But there is a limit to the good-nature of brothers-in-law , even in Belgium ; and Alaric was quite aware that no such good-luck as this could befall him , at any rate until he had gone through many years of servile labour . 
His sister also , though sisterly enough in her disposition to him , did not quite like having a brother employed as a clerk in her husband 's office . 
The nomination was procured ; but when it was ascertained how very short a way this went towards the attainment of the desired object , and how much more difficult it was to obtain Mr. Hardlines ' approval than the Board 's favour , young Tudor 's friends despaired , and recommended him to abandon the idea , as , should he throw himself into the Thames , he might perhaps fall beyond the reach of the waterman 's hook . 
Alaric himself , however , had no such fears . 
He could not bring himself to conceive that he could fail in being fit for a clerkship in a public office , and the result of his examination proved at any rate that he had been right to try . 
The close of his first year 's life in London , found him living in lodgings with Henry Norman . 
To say that Tudor selected his companion because of his income would be to ascribe unjustly to him vile motives and a mean instinct . 
He had not done so . 
But it may probably be said that had Norman been as poor as Tudor , Tudor might probably have shrunk from rowing in the same boat with him . 
Tudor , at his friend 's solicitation , had occasionally attempted to pull an oar from Searle 's step to Battersea Bridge . 
Tudor , when he arrived in London , regarded himself as somewhat of a free-thinker in matters of religion ; but he was of that age when men 's opinions are easily changed without loss of self-respect . 
Thus Henry Norman was respectable and Puseyistical , and Alaric Tudor after a while found it suitable to become so also . 
The acquaintance originally belonged to Norman , and he had first cemented his friendship with Tudor by introducing him at the house of Mrs. Woodward . 
As regards Alaric Tudor it need only be further said , by way of preface , of him as of Harry Norman , that the faults of his character must be made to declare themselves in the course of our narrative . 
And it were well that it was so some few years since , for young Charley Tudor , a cousin of our friend Alaric ; for Charley Tudor could never have passed muster at the Weights and Measures . 
Old Mr. Tudor knew that a clerkship in the Civil Service meant , or should mean , a respectable maintenance for life , and having many young Tudors to maintain himself , he was only too glad to find one of them provided for . 
Charley Tudor was some few years younger than his cousin Alaric when he came up to town , and Alaric had at that time some three or four years ' experience of London life . 
said the Secretary , `` your name is Tudor , is n't it ? '' 
`` Quite right -- it is a very fair ambition , '' continued the great official functionary -- `` quite right -- but , mind you , Mr. Tudor , if you come to us you must come to work . 
Come , Mr. Tudor , let us see what you can do . '' 
`` That wo n't do , Mr. Tudor , that wo n't do -- come , let us look ; '' and stretching over again , the Secretary took up the copy . 
Why , Mr. Tudor , you must be very fond of ` i 's ' down in Shropshire . '' 
`` And now , Mr. Tudor , what do you know of arithmetic ? '' 
`` Well , I believe it 's quite a new thing ; '' said Alaric Tudor . 
And yet young Tudor was a lad of a kindly heart , of a free honest , open disposition , deficient in no proportion of mind necessary to make an estimable man . 
Bills arrived there requiring payment ; and worse than this , letters also came through Sir Gilbert de Salop from Mr. Oldeschole , the Secretary , saying that young Tudor was disgracing the office , and lowering the high character of the Internal Navigation ; and that he must be removed , unless he could be induced to alter his line of life , & c. Urgent austere letters came from the father , and fond heart-rending appeals from the mother . 
He could not get up in the morning and say that he would at once be as his cousin Alaric , or as his cousin 's friend , Mr. Norman . 
Now young Tudor 's credit for virtue was very slight , and he did not know how to extend it . 
At last papa and mama Tudor came up to town to make one last effort to save their son ; and also to save , on his behalf , the valuable official appointment which he held . 
He had now been three years in his office , and his salary had risen to # 110 per annum . 
The plan adopted by Mrs. Tudor was that of beseeching their cousin Alaric to take Charley under his especial wing . 
When Charley first arrived in town , the fact of Alaric and Norman living together had given the former a good excuse for not offering to share his lodgings with his cousin . 
Alaric , with the advantage in age of three or four years -LRB- at that period of life the advantage lies in that direction -RRB- , with his acquired experience of London life , and also with all the wondrous éclat of the Weights and Measures shining round him , had perhaps been a little too unwilling to take by the hand a rustic cousin who was about to enter life under the questionable auspices of the Internal Navigation . 
And now it became a difficult question with Alaric how he was to answer the direct appeal made to him by Mrs. Tudor : -- `` Pray , pray let him live with you , if it be only for a year , Alaric , '' the mother had said , with the tears running down her cheeks . 
`` You are so good , so discreet , so clever -- you can save him . '' 
Alaric promised , or was ready to promise , anything else , but hesitated as to the joint lodgings . 
`` How could he manage it , '' said he , `` living , as he was , with another man ? 
He feared that Mr. Norman would not accede to such an arrangement . 
To tell the truth , Alaric thought much , perhaps too much , of the respectability of those with whom he consorted . 
He had already begun to indulge ambitious schemes , already had ideas stretching even beyond the limits of the Weights and Measures , and fully intended to make the very most of himself . 
`` I think we ought to do it , '' said he to Alaric . 
The mother 's tears had hardly touched his heart , but his sense of duty had prevailed . 
Alaric , of course , could now make no further objection , and thus Charley the Navvie became domesticated with his cousin Alaric and Harry Norman . 
Mrs. Richards the landlady , when she made ready the third bedroom for the young gentleman , would , as was her wont in such matters , have put a latch key on the toilet table as a matter of course , had she not had some little conversation with Mama Tudor regarding her son . 
Mama Tudor had implored and coaxed , and probably bribed Mrs. Richards to do something more than `` take her son in and do for him ; '' and Mrs. Richards , as her first compliance with these requests , had kept the latch key in her own pocket . 
As none of the three men ever dined at home , Alaric and Norman having clubs which they frequented , and Charley eating his dinner at some neighbouring dining house , it may be imagined that this change of residence did our poor navvy but little good . 
But perhaps the most salutary effect made by this change on young Tudor was this , that he was taken by his cousin one Sunday to the Woodwards . 
When Tudor and Norman came to live together , it was natural enough that Tudor also should be taken down to Surbiton Cottage . 
Tudor accordingly went there , and it soon came to pass that he also very frequently spent his Sundays at Hampton . 
It must be remembered that at this time , the time that is of Norman and Tudor 's first entrance on their London life , the girls at Surbiton Cottage were mere girls -- that is , little more than children ; they had not , as it were , got their wings so as to be able to fly alone when the provocation to do so might come ; they were , in short , Gertrude and Linda Woodward , and not the Miss Woodwards : their drawers came down below their frocks , instead of their frocks below their drawers ; and in lieu of studying the French language , as is done by grown-up ladies , they did French lessons , as is the case with ladies who are not grown-up . 
Under these circumstances there was no embarrassment as to what the young people should call each other , and they soon became very intimate as Harry and Alaric , Gertrude and Linda . 
It is not , however , to be conceived that Alaric Tudor at once took the same footing in the house as Norman . 
In the first place he never slept there , seeing that there was no bed for him ; and the most confidential intercourse in the household took place as they sat cosy over the last embers of the drawing-room fire , chatting about everything and nothing , as girls always can do , after Tudor had gone away to his bed at the Inn , on the opposite side of the way . 
And then Tudor did not come on every Saturday , and at first did not do so without express invitation ; and although the girls soon habituated themselves to the familiarity of their new friend 's Christian name , it was some time before Mrs. Woodward did so . 
But still Alaric Tudor and Harry Norman came to Hampton not less frequently than of yore , and the world resident on that portion of the left bank of the Thames found out that Harry Norman and Gertrude Woodward were to be man and wife , and that Alaric Tudor and Linda Woodward were to go through the same ceremony . 
Not that Mrs. Woodward gave them no advice ; not but that she advised them well and often -- but she did so , perhaps , too much as an equal , too little as a parent , But , be that as it may -- and I trust my readers will not be inclined so early in our story to lean heavily on Mrs. Woodward , whom I at once declare to be my own chief favourite in the tale -- but , be that as it may , it so occurred that Gertrude , before she was nineteen , had listened to vows of love from Harry Norman , which she neither rejected nor repudiated ; and that Linda had , before she was eighteen , perhaps unfortunately , taught herself to think it probable that she might have to listen to vows of love from Alaric Tudor . 
said Alaric , who was perhaps a little bolder than his friend , and a little less romantic . 
said Alaric ; `` what you mean is , that you wish I could bring Linda to consent to be made up to . '' 
`` I think her by far the prettier of the two , '' said Alaric . 
It was just at this time that fortune and old Mr. Tudor of the Shropshire Parsonage , brought Charley Tudor to reside with our two heroes . 
As a matter of course , both Norman and Tudor spoke much of their new companion to the ladies at Surbiton Cottage , and as by degrees they reported somewhat favourably of his improved morals , Mrs. Woodward , with a woman 's true kindness , begged that he might be brought down to Hampton . 
`` I am afraid you will find him very rough , '' said his cousin Alaric . 
said Alaric . 
He could have a bed at the inn as well as Alaric and Charley . 
The following day was Friday , and on the Saturday Norman and Tudor were to come down as a matter of course . 
Their advent had been of course spoken of , and Mrs. Woodward had explained to Uncle Bat that her cousin Harry usually spent his Sundays at Hampton , and that he usually also brought with him a friend of his , a Mr. Tudor . 
The girls felt themselves called upon , they hardly knew why , to be somewhat less intimate in their manner with the young men than they customarily were ; and Harry and Alaric , with quick instinct , reciprocated the feeling . 
So while Katie went off to the island , Alaric and the two girls sat under a spreading elm tree and watched the little boat as it shot across the water . 
`` We must only make the best of him , '' said Alaric . 
`` Well , now I 'll tell you what , Gertrude , '' said Alaric , `` I am quite sure that he looks on me , especially , as an interloper ; and yet I 'll bet you a pair of gloves I am his favourite before a month is over . '' 
You ca n't conceive , Alaric , what the drawing-room smelt like . 
I suppose he 'll do the same every evening . '' 
Norman was a little inclined to be sulky , for Katie had got the better of him ; when she had got out of the boat he could not get her into it again , and as he could not very well leave her in the island , he had been obliged to remain paddling about , while he heard the happy voices of Alaric and the two girls from the lawn . 
Alaric was in high good-humour , and entered the room intent on his threatened purpose of seducing Captain Cuttwater 's affections . 
`` Hush , '' said Alaric , pointing to the Captain who was thoroughly enjoying himself , and uttering sonorous snores at regular fixed intervals . 
The girls exchanged looks with Alaric ; and Norman , who had not yet recovered his good-humour , went on sipping his tea . 
said Alaric . 
`` Well , indeed , I do n't know , '' said Alaric , not a bit abashed . 
`` I have done with that game , and I 'll tell you what , Mr. Tudor , if I had a dozen sons to provide for to-morrow -- . '' 
`` You 're quite right , Captain Cuttwater , '' said Alaric , `` at least as far as the present moment goes ; but the time is coming when things at the Admiralty will be managed very differently . '' 
`` I do n't know what you mean , Alaric , '' said Harry Norman , who was just at present somewhat disposed to contradict his friend , and not ill-inclined to contradict the captain also ; `` as far as I can judge , the Admiralty is the very last office the Government will think of touching . '' 
`` It 's the pressure from without that must do the work , '' said Alaric . 
Here I am , Captain Cuttwater -- with sixty years ' service -- and I 've done more perhaps for the Queen 's navy than -- than -- '' `` It 's too true , Captain Cuttwater , '' said Alaric , speaking with a sort of mock earnestness which completely took in the captain , but stealing a glance at the same time at the two girls who sat over their work at the drawing-room table , `` it 's too true ; and there 's no doubt the whole thing must be altered , and that soon . 
said Alaric . 
`` Well , I think I have done something towards carrying my point , '' said Alaric . 
said Alaric . 
`` Alaric wants to do all he can to ingratiate himself with Uncle Bat , '' said Gertrude ; `` and I am sure he 's going the right way to work . '' 
`` It 's very good-natured on his part , '' said Mrs. Woodward . 
Katie was so thoroughly shocked that she did not know which way to look ; Norman , who had recovered his good-humour , and Alaric , could not refrain from smiling as they caught the eyes of the two girls ; and Mrs. Woodward made sundry little abortive efforts to wake her uncle with her foot . 
It was a great thing for the London citizens to come down there with their wives and children , and eat their dinners in the open air under the spreading trees ; and both Harry and Alaric agreed with him . 
It was seldom , indeed , that Norman could induce his Dulcinea to be so complacent in his favour , but either accident or kindness on her part favoured him on this occasion , and as Katie went on eliciting from Uncle Bat fresh promises as to the picnic , Harry and Gertrude found themselves together under one avenue of trees , while Alaric and Linda were equally fortunate , or unfortunate , under another . 
`` Alaric you saw was able to make himself happy , and I am sure he is not more indifferent to us than you are . '' 
`` Alaric seemed to me to be bent on making a fool of the old man ; and , to tell the truth , I can not approve of his doing so . '' 
`` It seems to me , Harry , that you do not approve of what any of us are doing , '' said she ; `` I fear we are all in your black books -- Captain Cuttwater , and mama , and Alaric , and I , and all of us . '' 
If you get cross because Captain Cuttwater has come here , and snub Alaric and Linda , as you did last night , and scold at mama because she chooses to let her own uncle live in her own house , why , to tell you the truth , I do n't think I ever shall . '' 
He would not probably have been annoyed had he not been found fault with for snubbing his friend Tudor . 
Let her say what she chose for her mother , or even for her profane , dram-drinking , vulgar old uncle , but it was too much that she should take up the cudgels for Alaric Tudor . 
`` Well , '' said he , `` I was annoyed last night , and I must own it . 
It grieved me to hear Alaric turning your uncle into ridicule , and that before your mother 's face ; and it grieved me to see you and Linda encourage him . 
In what Alaric said about the Admiralty he did not speak truthfully . '' 
`` Do you mean to say that Alaric said what was false ? '' 
`` Inasmuch as he was pretending to express his own opinion , he did say what was false . '' 
`` Then I must and will say that I never yet knew Alaric say a word that was not true ; and , which is more , I am quite sure that he would not accuse you of falsehood behind your back in a fit of jealousy . '' 
It so turned out that Alaric got on better last night with Captain Cuttwater than you did , and that makes you jealous . '' 
Alaric Tudor had certainly come out with no defined intention of making love , as Harry Norman had done ; but with such a companion it was very difficult for him to avoid it . 
Alaric Tudor had no defined intention of making love ; but he had a sort of suspicion that he might , if he pleased , do so successfully ; and he had no defined intention of letting it alone . 
He was a far-seeing prudent man ; for his age perhaps too prudent ; but he was nevertheless fully susceptible of the pleasure of holding an affectionate close intercourse with so sweet a girl as Linda Woodward ; and though he knew that marriage with a girl without a dowry would for him be a death-blow to all his high hopes , he could hardly resist the temptation of conjugating the verb to love . 
Had he been able to choose from the two sisters , he would probably have selected Gertrude in spite of what he had said to Norman in the boat ; but Gertrude was bespoken ; and it therefore seemed all but unnatural that there should not be some love passages between him and Linda . 
Linda was quite content to be told by her friend what she ought to do , and how she ought to think about her uncle ; and Alaric had a better way of laying down the law than Norman . 
But they had soon done with Captain Cuttwater , and Alaric had to choose another subject . 
`` Look at Harry , '' said Alaric ; `` I know from the motion of his shoulder that he is at this moment saying something very tender . '' 
`` You must not call them lovers , Alaric ; mama would not like it , nor indeed would Gertrude , I am sure . '' 
`` Indeed she is , very , very beautiful , '' repeated Alaric , speaking with an absent air as though his mind were fully engaged in thinking of the beauty of which he spoke . 
But yet there was something in Alaric 's warm tone of admiration which gave her a feeling of unhappiness which she would have been quite unable to define , even had she attempted it . 
But seeing that Norman was Gertrude 's lover , was it not natural that Alaric should be hers ? 
And , then , though Harry was the handsomer and the richer , she liked Alaric so much the better of the two . 
But now that Alaric was alone with her , the only subject he could think to talk of , was Gertrude 's beauty ! 
They walked on side by side , perfectly silent for a minute or two , and an ill-natured tear was gathering itself in the corner of Linda 's eye ; she was afraid even to raise her hand to brush it away for fear Alaric should see her , and thus it went on gathering , till it was like to fall . 
`` How singular it is , '' said Alaric , `` how very singular , the way in which I find myself living with you all ! 
said Linda , who having remembered Alaric since the days of her short frocks and lessons , looked on him as a very old friend indeed . 
said he ; `` well , indeed , I hope I am ; for your mother is at any rate a dear friend to me . 
`` But , Alaric , surely you would not interfere with Harry , '' said Linda , whose humble innocent heart thought still of nothing but the merits of her sister ; and then remembering that it was necessary that she should admit nothing on Gertrude 's behalf , she entered her little protest against the assumption that her sister acknowledged Norman for her lover . 
said Alaric , switching the heads off the bits of fern with the cane he carried . 
`` Interfere with Harry , '' Alaric repeated again , and renewed his attack on the ferns . 
Alaric saw his advantage , but was too generous to push it closely ; nor indeed did he choose to commit himself to all the assured intentions of a positive declaration . 
He wished to raise an interest in Linda 's heart , and having done so , to leave the matter to chance . 
Something , however , it was necessary that he should say . 
He walked awhile by her in silence , decapitating the ferns , and then coming close to her he said -- `` Linda , dear Linda ! 
`` Pray do n't , Alaric ; pray do n't . '' 
And Alaric , was he also happy ? 
At the moment he doubtless enjoyed the triumph of his success . 
But still he had a feeling of sad care at his heart . 
How was he to marry a girl without a shilling ? 
Were all his high hopes , was all his soaring ambition to be thrown over for a dream of love ? 
Uncle Bat had become tired with his walk , and crawled home so slowly that Alaric and Linda caught the party just as they reached the small wicket which leads out of the park on the side nearest to Hampton . 
The elder one soon took the matter in his own hand by going to sleep ; and Harry and Alaric being thus at liberty , sauntered out down the river side . 
When , therefore , Linda began to question her about her lover , and to make little hints of her desire to tell what Alaric had said of her and Norman , Gertrude gave her no encouragement . 
In all their conferences she took the cue of the conversation from her sister ; and though she could have talked about Alaric by the hour if Gertrude would have consented to talk about Harry , she did not know how to start the subject of her own lover , while Gertrude was so cold and uncommunicative as to hers . 
I should be as wrong to engage myself with Harry as you would be with Alaric . 
For though Harry has property of his own while poor Alaric has none , he has a very insufficient income for a married man , and I have no fortune with which to help him . 
She no longer panted to tell her sister of Alaric 's love . 
When Sir Gregory , as we must now call him , was first invited to give his attendance at another office , he found it expedient to take with him one of the young men from the Weights and Measures , and he selected Alaric Tudor . 
Now this was surprising to many , for Tudor had been brought into the office not quite in accordance with Sir Gregory 's views . 
But during his four years of service Alaric had contrived to smooth down any acerbity which had existed on this score ; either the paper on the strike-bushel , or his own general intelligence , or perhaps a certain amount of flattery which he threw into his daily intercourse with the chief clerk , had been efficacious , and when Sir Gregory was called upon to select a man to take with him to his new temporary office , he selected Alaric Tudor . 
The main effect which such selection had upon our story rises from the circumstance that it led to an introduction between Tudor and the Honorable Undecimus Scott , and that this introduction brought about a close alliance . 
We will postpone for a short while such description of the character and position of this gentleman as it may be indispensable to give , and will in this place merely say that the Honorable Undecimus Scott had been chosen to act as secretary to the temporary commission that was now making inquiry as to the proposed Civil Service examinations , and that , in this capacity he was necessarily thrown into communication with Tudor . 
He was a man who had known much of officialities , had filled many situations , was acquainted with nearly all the secretaries , assistant-secretaries , and private secretaries in London , had been in Parliament , and was still hand-and-glove with all young members who supported Government . 
Tudor , therefore , thought it a privilege to know him , and allowed himself to become , in a certain degree , subject to his influence . 
There was but one other named as likely to stand with any probability of success , and he was Alaric Tudor . 
But no one had yet heard Tudor say that he intended to compete with his seven seniors -- none yet knew whether he would put himself forward as an adversary to his own especial friend , Norman . 
For some few days not a word was spoken , even between the friends themselves , as to Tudor 's intention . 
`` Oh no , '' said Alaric , `` nothing half so high as that . 
I am only an outsider , '' said Alaric . 
`` Indeed I can hardly say that I was either in jest or in earnest , '' said Alaric . 
Alaric made no answer . 
repeated Alaric . 
Harry laughed slightly , for he knew it had been asked by many how such men as Uppinall and Minusex could think of putting themselves in competition with Alaric Tudor . 
`` That is something like mock-modesty , is it not , Alaric ? '' 
said Alaric . 
`` I shall only be creating fuel for a feud , '' said Alaric . 
said Alaric , pushing the matter further than he perhaps should have done . 
Believe me , Alaric , that though I shall , as others , be anxious for success myself , I should , in failing , be much consoled by knowing that you had succeeded . '' 
Alaric brushed a tear from his eye , and ended by promising to be guided by his friend 's advice . 
And Alaric , he also felt a glow of triumph as he reflected , that come what come might , there would be now no necessity for him to break with Norman or with the Woodwards . 
Norman must now always remember that it was at his own instigation that he , Alaric , had consented to be a candidate . 
As regarded the real fact of the candidature , the prize was too great to allow of his throwing away such a chance . 
Alaric 's present income was # 200 ; that which he hoped to gain was # 600 !! 
Immediately on entering the office , Tudor gave it to be understood that he intended to give in his name as a candidate ; but he had hardly done so when his attention was called off from the coming examinations by another circumstance which was ultimately of great importance to him . 
One of the Assistant-Secretaries sent for him , and told him that his services having been required by Sir Gregory Hardlines for a week or so , he was at once to go over to that gentleman 's office ; and Alaric could perceive , that as Sir Gregory 's name was mentioned , the Assistant-Secretary smiled on him with no aspect of benign solicitude . 
He went over accordingly , and found that Sir Gregory , having been desired to select a man for a special service in the country , had named him . 
`` Nothing whatever , '' said Alaric . 
said Alaric . 
asked Alaric . 
`` He understands Government properties , and will take care that the Crown be not wronged ; but , Tudor , the Government will look to you to get the true common-sense view of the case . 
Alaric of course promised that he would do his best , expressed the deepest gratitude to his patron , and went off to put himself into communication with Mr. Neverbend at the Woods and Forests , having received an asssurance that the examination in his own office should not take place till after his return from Tavistock . 
Sir Gregory , however , perfectly succeeded in his object of imbuing Tudor with a very indifferent opinion of his new colleague 's abilities . 
It was his object that Tudor should altogether take the upper hand in the piece of work which was to be done between them , and that it should be clearly proved how very incapable the Woods and Forests were of doing their own business . 
He , when he was told that a young clerk named Tudor was to accompany him , conceived that he might look on his companion rather in the light of a temporary private secretary than an equal partner , and imagined that new glory was added to him by his being so treated . 
But though Mr. Neverbend was no fool , he was not equal either in tact or ability to Alaric Tudor . 
Alaric had his interview with him , and was not slow to perceive the sort of man with whom he had to act . 
`` Well , Mr. Tudor , '' said he , `` I think of starting on Tuesday . 
`` It will be the same to me , '' said Tudor ; `` I have n't looked at the papers yet , so I can hardly say what may be necessary . '' 
But , Mr. Tudor , there will be a good deal of writing to do when we are there . '' 
`` We are both used to that , I fancy , '' said Tudor , `` so it wo n't kill us . '' 
`` Well , that will be good fun , '' said Alaric . 
The only point settled between them was that of their starting by an early train on the Tuesday named , and then Alaric returned to Sir Gregory 's office , there to read through and digest an immense bulk of papers all bearing on the question at issue . 
Hence had come Alaric 's mission . 
The name of the mine in question was Wheal Mary Jane , and Alaric had read the denomination half a score of times before he learnt that there was no real female in the case . 
The Sunday before he went was of course passed at Hampton , and there he received the full glory of his special appointment . 
Katie pretended that Alaric would certainly marry Mary Jane Wheal , and bring her to Surbiton Cottage , and Captain Cuttwater offered to the hero introductions to all the old naval officers at Devonport . 
`` I fear the pleasure would not repay the trouble , '' said Alaric , laughing . 
I could make you known , you know -- '' `` I could not hear of such a thing , '' said Alaric , trembling at the idea which Uncle Bat had conjured up . 
Alaric , in his own defence , was obliged to declare that the rules of the service especially required that he should hold no friendly communication with any one during the time that he was employed on this special service . 
On the Sunday , going to church , the Captain suggested that Alaric might , at any rate , just call upon Sir Jib on the sly . 
It so turned out that Alaric either avoided , or , at any rate , did not use the privilege , and Linda returned home with an undefined feeling of gentle disappointment . 
She had fully made up her mind to be very staid , very discreet , and very collected ; to take a leaf out of her sister 's book , and give him no encouragement whatever ; she would not absolutely swear to him that she did not now , and never could , return his passion ; but she would point out how very imprudent any engagement between two young persons , situated as they were , must be -- how foolish it would be for them to bind themselves , for any number of years , to a marriage which must be postponed ; she would tell Alaric all this , and make him understand that he was not to regard himself as affianced to her ; but she with a woman 's faith would nevertheless remain true to him . 
This was Linda 's great resolve , and the strong hope , that in a very few weeks , Alaric would be promoted to a marrying income of 600l . 
`` Nothing on the earth , Mrs. Woodward -- it is to be all below the surface , forty fathom deep , '' said Alaric . 
`` So Mr. Neverbend settled it ; but that arrangement may , perhaps , be unsettled again , '' said Alaric , with a certain feeling of confidence in his own strong will . 
On the Monday morning he started with the often expressed good wishes of all the party , and with a note for Sir Jib Boom , which the captain made him promise that he would deliver , and which Alaric fully determined to lose long before he got to Plymouth . 
That evening he and Norman passed together . 
Alaric 's mind was of a different cast ; he panted rather for the great than the beautiful ; and was inclined to ridicule the growing taste of the day for torsos , Palissy ware , and Assyrian monsters . 
Norman , who was apt to examine himself and his own motives more strongly than Alaric ever did , had felt that something like suspicion as to his friend had crept over him ; and he had felt also that there was no ground for such suspicion . 
He had determined to throw it off , and to be again cordial with his companion . 
He had resolved so to do before his last visit at Hampton ; but it was at Hampton that the suspicion had been engendered , and there he found himself unable to be genial , kindly , and contented . 
A year ago he had been the hero of the Hampton Sundays ; he could not but now feel that Alaric had , as it were , supplanted him with his own friends . 
He had been turned out of his bedroom at the cottage , and had therefore lost those last , loving , lingering words , sometimes protracted to so late an hour , which had been customary after Alaric 's departure to his inn -- those last lingering words which had been so sweet because their sweetness had not been shared with his friend . 
He could not be genial and happy at Surbiton Cottage ; but he was by no means satisfied with himself that he should not have been so . 
When he found that he had been surly with Alaric he was much more angry with himself than Alaric was with him . 
Alaric , indeed , was indifferent about it . 
He had no wish to triumph over Harry , but he had an object to pursue , and he was not the man to allow himself to be diverted from it by any one 's caprice . 
`` That is much easier said than done , '' replied Alaric . 
I feel all this ; and Alaric , you must not be surprized that to a certain degree it is painful to me to feel it . 
Alaric was touched ; but there was more triumph than sympathy in his heart . 
It was sweet , much too sweet , to him to hear his superiority thus acknowledged . 
He was superior to the men who worked round him in his office . 
He was made of a more plastic clay than they , and despite the inferiority of his education he knew himself to be fit for higher work than they could do . 
As the acknowledgment was made to him by the man whom of those around him he certainly ranked second to himself , he could not but feel that his heart 's blood ran warm within him , he could not but tread with an elastic step . 
But it behoved him to answer Harry , and to answer him in other spirit than this . 
Education is nothing ; Alaric triumphantly re-echoed the words in his heart -- `` Education is nothing -- mind , mind is everything ; mind and the will . '' 
So he expressed himself to his own inner self ; but out loud he spoke much more courteously . 
`` But Alaric , '' said Norman , going on rather with the threat of his own thoughts , than answering or intending to answer what the other said , `` in following up your high ambition -- and I know you have a high ambition -- do not allow yourself to believe that the end justifies the means , because you see that men around you act as though they believed so . '' 
said Alaric , turning sharply round . 
`` Do n't be angry with me , Alaric ; do n't think that I want to preach ; but sometimes I fancy , not that you do so , but that your mind is turning that way ; that , in your eager desire for honourable success , you wo n't scrutinize the steps you will have to take . '' 
`` Alaric , that which is evil , is evil . 
-- `` What great man ever rose to greatness , '' continued Alaric , after they had walked nearly the length of the building in silence , `` who thought it necessary to pick his steps in the manner you have described ? '' 
`` It is all a quibble about a word , '' said Alaric . 
On the next morning Alaric and his new companion met each other at an early hour at the Paddington station . 
Then he had his ticket to get and his `` Times '' to buy , and he really had not leisure to do more than nod at Alaric till he had folded his rug around him , tried that the cushion was soft enough , and completed his arrangements for the journey . 
`` Well , Mr. Tudor , '' at last he said as soon as the train was in motion , `` and how are you this morning -- ready for work I hope ? '' 
`` Well , not exactly at this moment , '' said Alaric . 
`` Early , Mr. Tudor ! 
Now Alaric had been told of this very report , and was aware that he was going to Tavistock , in order that the joint result of his and Mr. Neverbend 's labours might be communicated to the crown officers in intelligible language . 
The monster report before him contained twenty-six pages of close folio writing , and he felt that he really could not oblige Mr. Neverbend by reading it . 
said Alaric . 
`` But really , Mr. Tudor -- '' `` I need not say how much personal advantage it would be to me to have the benefit of your experience , but my conscience tells me that I should not do it -- so I think I 'll go to sleep . '' 
While he was settling the question in his own mind , Tudor went to sleep , and did not wake till he was invited to partake of ten minutes ' refreshment at Swindon . 
of course , '' said Alaric . 
`` We 'll get a chaise at Plymouth , '' said Alaric . 
`` That wo n't signify much to us , '' said Alaric , `` we sha n't pay the bill . '' 
On getting out of the railway carriage , Alaric at once hired a carriage with a pair of horses ; the luggage was strapped on , and Mr. Neverbend , before his time for expostulation had fairly come , found himself posting down the road to Tavistock , followed at a respectful distance by two coaches and an omnibus . 
He could not at all understand how it was , but even the servants at the hotel seemed to pay more deference to Tudor than to him ; and before the evening was over he absolutely found himself drinking port-wine negus , because his colleague had ordered it for him . 
`` Do , '' said Alaric , who was not at all tired , `` and I 'll go through this infernal mass of papers . 
So Alaric went to work , and studied the dry subject that was before him . 
Acting in accordance with his fixed and conscientious rule in this respect , Undy Scott had struck up an acquaintance with Alaric Tudor . 
He saw that Alaric was no ordinary clerk , that Sir Gregory was likely to have the Civil Service under his thumb , and that Alaric was a great favourite with the great man . 
The Knight Companion of the Bath would have been deaf to his blandishments ; but it seemed probable that the ears of Alaric might be tickled . 
And thus Alaric and Undy Scott had become fast friends ; that is , as fast as such friends generally are . 
Alaric was no more blind to his own interest than was his new ally . 
But there was this difference between them ; Undy lived altogether in the utilitarian world which he had formed around himself , whereas Alaric lived in two worlds . 
When with Undy his pursuits and motives were much such as those of Undy himself ; but at Surbiton Cottage , and with Harry Norman , he was still susceptible of a higher feeling . 
But he took an opportunity of mentioning before Sir Gregory , in a passing unpremeditated way , how excellently adapted Tudor was for the work . 
It so turned out that his effort was successful , and that Tudor was sent . 
The whole of their first day at Tavistock was passed by Neverbend and Alaric in hearing interminable statements from the various mining combatants , and when at seven o'clock Alaric shut up for the evening , he was heartily sick of the job . 
The next morning before breakfast he sauntered out to air himself in the front of the hotel , and who should come whistling up the street , with a cigar in his mouth , but his new friend Undy Scott . 
Alaric Tudor was very much surprised . 
Had he seen Sir Gregory himself , or Captain Cuttwater , walking up the street of Tavistock , he could not have been more startled . 
`` Well , Tudor , my boy , '' said he , `` and how do you like the clotted cream and the thick ankles of the stout Devonshire lasses ? '' 
`` I have neither tasted the one , nor seen the other , '' said Alaric . 
Alaric merely shrugged his shoulders , and laughed slightly . 
said he . 
I did not know the wind blew in that quarter , '' said Alaric , not ill-pleased at the suggestion that he also , on some future day , might have a seat among the faithful Commons . 
`` Well , then , good morning , '' said Alaric . 
Undy went on for a few steps , and then returned , as though a sudden thought had struck him . 
`` But , Tudor , I have bowels of compassion within me , though no pluck . 
Alaric promised that he would come , and then went into breakfast . 
Another day went wearily and slowly on with Alaric and Mr. Neverbend . 
Tedious never-ending statements had to be taken down in writing ; the same things were repeated over and over again , and were as often contradicted ; men who might have said in five words all that they had to say , would not be constrained to say it in less than five thousand , and each one seemed to think , or pretended to seem to think , that all the outer world and the Government were leagued together to defraud the interest to which he himself was specially attached . 
There were points which were as clear as daylight ; but Tudor could not declare them to be so , as by doing so he was sure to elicit a different opinion from Mr. Neverbend . 
`` I am not quite so clear on that point , Mr. Tudor , '' he would say . 
Alaric , till experience made him wise , would attempt to argue it . 
Neverbend had done what he could to keep this crowning honour of the inquiry altogether in his own hands , but he had found that in this respect Tudor was much too much for him . 
Immediately after dinner Alaric announced that he was going to spend the evening with a friend . 
But , Mr. Tudor -- '' `` Well , '' said Alaric , who felt growing within him a determination to put down at once anything like interference with his private hours . 
said Alaric . 
So Tudor went out , and Neverbend prepared himself to sit up for him . 
Three days Alaric Tudor had now passed with Mr. Neverbend , and not only three days but three evenings also ! 
It does not often occur that one is doomed to bear the same bore both by day and night : any change gives some ease ; but poor Alaric for three days had had no change . 
He felt like a liberated convict as he stept freely forth into the sweet evening air , and made his way through the town to the opposition Inn . 
Here he found Undy on the door-steps with a cigar in his mouth . 
`` Here I am , waiting for you , '' said he . 
`` You are fagged to death I know , and we 'll get a mouthful of fresh air before we go up stairs '' -- and so saying he put his arm through Alaric 's , and they strolled off through the suburbs of the town . 
`` You do n't smoke , '' said Undy , with his cigarcase in his hand . 
`` He never indulges in anything , '' said Alaric . 
`` Why , Tudor , what would you think now if he not only bought for himself , but was commissioned to buy by the very men who sent him down here ? '' 
Alaric began to feel uneasy , and to think that there might by possibility be something in what Neverbend had said to him . 
This is my friend , Mr. Tudor . '' 
Come , Tudor , what will you drink ? 
`` I 'll leave you , Scott , '' said Alaric , who did not enjoy the society of Mr. Manylodes , and to whom the nature of the conversation was , in his present position , extremely irksome . 
Alaric allowed himself to be persuaded , and stayed . 
It was a lovely autumn evening , early in September , and Alaric sat himself at an open window , looking out from the back of the hotel on to the Brentor , with its singular parishchurch built on its highest apex , while Undy held deep council with his friend of the mines . 
But from time to time , some word of moment found its way to Alaric 's ears , and made him also unconsciously fix his mind on the irritamenta malorum which are dug from the bowels of the earth in those western regions . 
If , as I hear they -- '' and then there was a very low whisper , and Alaric , who could not keep his eye altogether from Mr. Manylodes ' countenance , saw plainly that that worthy gentleman was talking of himself ; and in spite of his better instincts , a desire came over him to know more of what they were discussing , and he could not keep from thinking that shares bought at # 4 12s . 
`` Well , I 'll manage it ; '' said Scott , still in a sort of whisper , but audibly enough for Alaric to hear . 
-- very well ; '' and he took out his pocket-book and made a memorandum . 
`` Come , Tudor , here 's the bishop . 
Good night , Mr. Scott ; I wishes you good night , sir ; '' and making another slight reference to his hat , which had not been removed from his head during the whole interview , Mr. Manylodes took himself off . 
`` Cornwall and Devonshire , I suppose ; '' said Alaric . 
But , Tudor , you 'll be surprised I suppose if I tell you that I have made a purchase for you . '' 
and he refilled Alaric 's glass . 
`` I must be contented with it , if I can get nothing better , '' said Tudor , weakly . 
`` Why , Tudor , you are the youngest fish I ever met , sent out to swim alone in this wicked world of ours . 
Who the deuce talks openly of his speculations ? 
-- you mean the Devils rather , '' said Alaric , who sat listening , and drinking , almost unconsciously , his doctored tipple . 
But , Tudor , you do n't know the world . 
He wants to be civil to me , and he thinks it wise to be civil to you also . 
He has a hat full of these shares , and he tells me that , knowing my weakness , and presuming that you have the same , he bought a few extra this morning , thinking we might like them . 
'T was thus the devil pleaded for the soul of Alaric Tudor , and , alas ! 
he did not plead in vain . 
Let him but have a fair hearing , and he seldom does . 
'T was but a thin veil that the Hon. Undecimus Scott threw over the bait with which he fished for the honesty of Alaric Tudor , and yet it sufficed . 
One would say that a young man , fortified with such aspirations as those which glowed in Alaric 's breast , should have stood a longer siege ; should have been able to look with clearer eyesight on the landmarks which divide honour from dishonour , integrity from fraud , and truth from falsehood . 
But he had never prayed to be delivered from evil . 
His desire had rather been that he might be led into temptation . 
He had never so prayed -- yet had he daily said his prayers at fitting intervals . 
On every returning Sunday had he gone through , with all the fitting forms , the ordinary worship of a Christian . 
Alaric Tudor had sighed for permission to go forth among worldlings and there fight the world 's battle . 
Power , station , rank , wealth , all the good things which men earn by tact , diligence , and fortune combined , and which were so far from him at his outset in life , became daily more dear to his heart . 
And now his honourable friend twitted him with being a mere clerk ! 
No , he was not , never had been , never would be such . 
Had he not already , in five or six short years , distanced his competitors , and made himself the favourite and friend of men infinitely above him in station ? 
Was he not now here in Tavistock on a mission which proved that he was no mere clerk ? 
Was not the fact of his drinking bishop in the familiar society of a lord 's son , and an ex-M.P. , a proof of it ? 
It would be calumny on him to say that he had allowed Scott to make him tipsy on this occasion . 
Oh , Alaric , Alaric , to what a pass had you conscience come , when it could be so silenced . 
`` # 205 , '' said Tudor , to whom the sum seemed anything but trifling ; `` and when must it be paid ? '' 
Alaric had some portion of the amount himself , and he knew that Norman had money by him ; he felt also a half-drunken conviction that if Norman failed him , Captain Cuttwater would not let him want such a sum ; and so he said that he could , and the bargain was completed . 
When Alaric entered the sitting-room at the Bedford , he found Neverbend still seated at a table covered with official books and huge bundles of official papers . 
He glowered at Alaric when he entered with a severe suspicious eye , which seemed to accuse him at once of the deed which he had done . 
shouted Alaric , in whose brain the open air had not diminished the effect of the bishop , and who remembered with all the energy of pot valour that he was not a mere clerk ; `` copy -- bother -- I 'm going to bed , old fellow ; and I advise you to do the same . '' 
And then taking up a candlestick , and stumbling as he went somewhat awkwardly against a chair , Tudor went off to his room , waiting no further reply from his colleague . 
Mr. Manylodes was , at any rate right in this , that that beverage , which men call bishop , is a doctored tipple ; and Alaric Tudor , when he woke in the morning , owned the truth . 
He could hardly disguise the pleasure with which he asked the waiter whether Mr. Tudor was yet dressed , or the triumph which he felt when he heard that his colleague was not quite ready . 
`` Wo n't you wait for Mr. Tudor ? '' 
Now the landlord , waiter , boots , and chambermaid , the chambermaid especially , had all , in Mr. Neverbend 's estimation , paid Tudor by far too much consideration ; and he was determined to show that he himself was first fiddle . 
`` Mr. Tudor will be down in ten minutes , '' was the waiter 's false reply ; for up to that moment poor Alaric had not yet succeeded in lifting his throbbing head from his pillow . 
The boots was now with him administering soda-water and brandy , and he was pondering in his sickened mind whether , by a manful effort , he could rise and dress himself ; or whether he would not throw himself backwards on his coveted bed , and allow Neverbend the triumph of descending alone to the nether world . 
In the meantime Alaric sat lackadaisical on his bedside , all undressed , leaning his head upon his hand , and feeling that his struggle to dress himself was all but useless . 
The sympathetic boots stood by with a cup of tea -- well-drawn comfortable tea -- in his hand , and a small bit of dry toast lay near on an adjacent plate . 
ejaculated poor Alaric . 
The proposal made Alaric very sick , and nearly completed the catastrophe . 
he said . 
said Alaric , who was now stirred up to instant action . 
`` Please , sir , Mr. Tudor says as how you 're not to go just at present , but to wait ten minutes till he be ready . '' 
Alaric , when he heard the wheels roll off , shook from him his lethargy . 
`` For heaven 's sake put them away , '' said Alaric , to whom the very idea of food was repulsive . 
The boots stuck to him like a man . 
He did not only get him sandwiches , but he procured for him also Mr. Boteldale 's own fast-trotting pony , and just as Neverbend was rolling up to the pit 's mouth fifteen minutes after his time , greatly resolving in his own mind to button his breeches pocket firmly against the recreant driver , Alaric started on his chase after him . 
Let Neverbend descend alone , alone inspect the wonders of that dirty deep , and Tudor might then talk and write as he pleased . 
In such case all the world of the two public offices in question , and of some others cognate to them , would adjudge that he , Neverbend , had made himself master of the situation . 
`` Mr. Tudor is not very well this morning , '' said Mr. Neverbend . 
`` As his going down is not necessary for the inquiry , and is merely a matter of taste on his part , he has not joined me this morning . 
The world receded from his view , but hardly soon enough ; for as the windlass turned and the bucket descended , his last terrestrial glance , looking out among the heaps of mud , descried Alaric Tudor galloping on Mr. Boteldale 's pony up to the very mouth of the mine . 
He grunted , however , in vain ; for in about a quarter of an hour Alaric was close to him , shoulder to shoulder . 
He also wore a white jacket , & c. , with a night-cap of mud , and candle on his head ; but somehow he looked as though he had worn them all his life . 
The fast gallop , and the excitement of the masquerade which for him had charms the sterner Neverbend could not feel , had dissipated his sickness ; and he was once more all himself . 
Tudor was absolutely at work with paper and pencil , taking down notes in that wretched Pandemonium . 
`` There now , sir , '' said the guide ; `` no more of them ugly buckets , Mr. Neverbend ; we can trust to our own arms and legs for the rest of it , '' and so saying , he pointed out to Mr. Neverbend 's horror-stricken eyes a perpendicular iron ladder fixed firmly against the upright side of a shaft , and leading -- for aught Mr. Neverbend could see -- direct to hell itself . 
said Alaric , peeping over . 
`` I 'll go first , '' said the guide ; and down he went , down , down , down , till Neverbend looking over , could barely see the glimmer of his disappearing head light . 
Was it absolutely intended that he should disappear in the same way ? 
Had he bound himself to go down that fiendish upright ladder ? 
And were he to go down it , what then ? 
said Alaric , very civilly . 
Neverbend could only pant and grunt , and Alaric , with a courteous nod , placed himself on the ladder , and went down , down , down , till of him also nothing was left but the faintest glimmer . 
Mr. Neverbend wished that Mr. Tudor 's journey might still be down , and down , and down , till he reached the globe 's centre , in which conflicting attractions might keep him for ever fixed . 
By slow degrees he made such toilet as circumstances allowed , and then had himself driven back to Tavistock , being no more willing to wait for Tudor now than he had been in the early morning . 
But Jehu found him much more reasonable on his return ; and as that respectable functionary pocketed his half-crown , he fully understood the spirit in which it was given . 
Alaric , who of course contrived to see all that was to be seen , and learn all that was to be learnt , in the dark passages of the tin mine , was careful on his return to use his triumph with the greatest moderation . 
His conscience was , alas , burdened with the guilty knowledge of Undy 's shares . 
When he came to think of the transaction as he rode leisurely back to Tavistock , he knew how wrong he had been , and yet he felt a kind of triumph at the spoil which he held ; for he had heard among the miners that the shares of Mary Jane were already going up to some incredible standard of value . 
In this manner , so said he to himself , had all the great minds of the present day made their money , and kept themselves afloat . 
'T was thus he tried to comfort himself ; but not as yet successfully . 
There were no more squabbles between Mr. Neverbend and Mr. Tudor ; each knew that of himself which made him bear and forbear ; and so the two Commissioners returned to town on good terms with each other , and Alaric wrote a report which delighted the heart of Sir Gregory Hardlines , ruined the opponents of the great tin mine , and sent the Mary Jane shares up , and up , and up , till speculating men thought that they could not give too high a price to secure them . 
Alaric returned to town on Friday . 
It had been arranged that he and Charley and Norman should all go down to Hampton on the Saturday ; and then , on the following week , the competitive examination was to take place . 
But Alaric 's first anxiety after his return was to procure the # 205 which he had to pay for the shares which he held in his pocket-book . 
He all but regretted as he journeyed up to town , with the now tame Fidus seated opposite to him , that he had not disposed of them at Tavistock even at half their present value , so that he might have saved himself the necessity of being a borrower , and have wiped his hands of the whole affair . 
After dinner , as they sat over their pint of sherry , Alaric made his request . 
`` Oh , yes -- certainly , '' said he ; but he said it without the eagerness with which Alaric thought that he should have answered his request . 
`` If it 's inconvenient ; or if you do n't like it , '' said Alaric , the blood mounting to his forehead , `` it does not signify . 
Intimate as the two men were , there had hitherto been very little borrowing or lending between them ; and now Alaric felt as though he owed it to his intimacy with his friend to explain to him why he wanted so large a sum in so short a time . 
He felt , moreover , that he would not himself be so much ashamed of what he had done if he could confess it to some one else . 
He could then solace himself with the reflection that he had done nothing secret . 
`` Mines , '' said Alaric , bringing out the dread truth at last . 
`` Yes -- that very identical Mary Jane that I went down , and down about , '' said Alaric , trying to joke on the subject . 
`` Alaric , if it were known -- '' `` Then it must n't be known , '' said Tudor . 
Norman said nothing more ; but he felt that Tudor had done that which , if known , would disgrace him for ever . 
It might , however , very probably never be known ; and it might also be that Tudor would never act so dishonestly again . 
On the following morning the money was paid ; and in the course of the next week the shares were re-sold and the money repaid , and Alaric Tudor , for the first time in his life , found himself to be the possessor of over three hundred pounds . 
During Alaric 's absence at Tavistock , Norman had taken Charley by the hand and been with him a good deal . 
It might have been evident to a watchful bystander that Alaric was growing in favour with all the party , excepting Mrs. Woodward , and that , as he did so , Harry was more and more cherished by her . 
Alaric had brought down with him to Hampton the documents necessary to enable him to draw out his report on Mary Jane . 
Indeed , it was all but necessary that he should do so , as his coming examination would leave him but little time for other business during the week . 
On Saturday night he sat up at his inn over the papers , and on Sunday morning , when Mrs. Woodward and the girls came down , ready bonneted , for church , he signified his intention of remaining at his work . 
`` Alaric is certainly very busy , but I think he should go to church all the same , '' said Harry , who himself never omitted divine worship . 
In the meantime Alaric , unconscious how he had been attacked and how defended , worked hard at his Tavistock notes . 
Harry perfectly sympathised in the feeling ; and even Alaric , though depressed himself by no melancholy forebodings , was at any rate conscious that he should refrain from any apparent anticipation of a triumph . 
They all went to church in the evening ; but even this amendment in Alaric 's conduct hardly reconciled him to Mrs. Woodward . 
`` The jackanapes must learn to put up with ordinary work , '' said Alaric , `` or he 'll soon find himself reduced to his former insignificance . '' 
Alaric , Harry , and Charley , of course , returned to town on the following day . 
Linda was the family tea-maker , and was , therefore , earliest down ; and Alaric being the first on this morning to leave the hotel , found her alone in the dining-room . 
He had never renewed the disclosure of his passion ; but Linda had thought that whenever he shook hands with her since that memorable walk , she had always felt a more than ordinary pressure . 
Now , when he bade her good morning , he certainly held her hand in his longer than he need have done . 
He looked at her too , as though his looks meant something more than ordinary looking ; at least so Linda thought ; but yet he said nothing , and so Linda , slightly trembling , went on with the adjustment of her tea-tray . 
`` It will be all over , Linda , when we meet again , '' said Alaric . 
His mind she found was intent on his examination , not on his love . 
If -- and she was certain in her heart that it would be so -- if he should be successful , then he might speak of love without having to speak in the same breath of poverty as well . 
`` It will be all over when we meet again , '' he said . 
`` I am sure I do , '' said he . 
`` Oh , Alaric ! '' 
He turned into Somerest House , being there regarded on these Monday mornings as a prodigy of punctuality ; and Alaric and Harry walked back along the Strand , arm-in-arm , toward their own office . 
that 's of course , '' said Alaric . 
Harry could not bring himself to have a kindly feeling for his friend , and Alaric by some instinctive sympathy knew that this was the case . 
Norman appeared to the world to be a colder man than Alaric Tudor ; but , of the two , his feelings were in truth much the warmer and much the deeper . 
During the whole week that Alaric had been absent in Devonshire , he had been schooling himself to accept the expected success of his friend and rival as a triumph in which , though beaten , he himself might in part join . 
He had all but brought himself to resolve to retire from the struggle , and had determined to do so if he could learn from the great men of the office that Alaric was likely to distance his other competitors in the struggle . 
He would do more than Nisus did , and , if possible , make the running sure for his Euryalus , even at his own expense . 
'T was thus he thought of the matter when alone ; but yet when he found himself in Alaric 's company he could not bring himself to be genial . 
With him Alaric was always good-humoured ; but he was indifferent as well as good-humoured . 
Had he lost his temper , been perverse , petulant , or overbearing , or even had he shown any intense anxiety as to his promotion , Norman could have borne it and sympathised with him . 
Alaric had told him that he should undoubtedly make money by the speculation , and he could not but look on money so made as foully come by . 
Alaric had accused him of being harsh in his judgment , and he therefore had said nothing further ; but he could not help feeling that his chosen friend , the friend of whom he wished to think so well , had disgraced himself . 
And then when he thought of Gertrude and Surbiton Cottage , he could not bring himself to be happy . 
He was not jealous of Alaric , whom he had fully trusted with the secret of his love ; nor was he doubtful of Gertrude , though he had sufficient reason to be , had he known aught of a woman 's heart . 
But he felt that he was forced to play second fiddle before his lady love ; and it was Harry Norman 's misfortune that though doomed to play second fiddle through life , he could not reconcile himself to that place in the world 's orchestra . 
Alaric the while thought of nothing but his triumphs , past , present , and to come . 
He had thoroughly vanquished Neverbend , and had received honour and glory in doing so ; he had the sure prospect of netting two or three hundred pounds , and he had full confidence in himself in facing Sir Gregory Hardlines ' Board of Examiners . 
Norman and Alaric made up the five who still had health , strength , and pluck to face the stern justice of the new kings ; and they accordingly took their seats on five chairs , equally distant , placing themselves in due order of seniority . 
Alaric , to give him his due , did everything in his power to persuade him to see the task out to the last . 
But the assurance and composure of Alaric 's manner did more than anything else to provoke and increase Norman 's discomfiture . 
And Mr. Uppinall and Alaric Tudor also went on . 
So that when Alaric was declared on the Saturday morning to have gained the prize , there was very little astonishment either felt or expressed at the Weights and Measures . 
Alaric 's juniors wished him joy with some show of reality in their manner ; but the congratulations of his seniors , including the Secretary and Assistant-Secretaries , the new Chief Clerk and the men in the class to which he was now promoted , were very cold indeed . 
It was the nature of Tudor 's disposition that he never for a moment rested satisfied with the round of the ladder on which he had contrived to place himself . 
He had no sooner gained a step than he looked upwards to see how the next step was to be achieved . 
His motto might well have been `` excelsior ! '' 
if only he could have taught himself to look to heights that were really high . 
When he found that the august Secretary received him on his promotion without much empressement , he comforted himself by calculating how long it would be before he should fill that Secretary 's chair -- if indeed it should ever be worth his while to fill it . 
Alaric was already beginning to think that this Weights and Measures should only be a steppingstone to him ; and that when Sir Gregory with his stern dogma of devotion to the service had been of sufficient use to him , he also might with advantage be thrown over . 
On the following Sunday neither Tudor nor Norman were at Hampton . 
He would have been better satisfied if Alaric would have triumphed ; but Alaric seemed to take it all as a matter of course , and never spoke of his own promotion unless he did so in answer to some remark of his companion ; then he could speak easily enough ; otherwise he was willing to let the matter go by as one settled and at rest . 
He had consulted Norman about the purchase of a horse , but he hitherto had shown no other sign that he was a richer man than formerly . 
How was he to get away , even for a time , from Alaric Tudor ? 
And then , was he right in wishing to get away from him ? 
Had he not told himself , over and over again , that it behoved him as a man and a friend and a Christian to conquer the bitter feeling of envy which preyed on his spirits ? 
Had he not himself counselled Alaric to stand this examination , and had he not promised that his doing so should make no difference in their friendship ? 
had he not pledged himself to rejoice in the success of his friend ? 
and now was he to break his word both to that friend and to himself ? 
Schooling himself , or trying to school himself in this way , he made no attempt at escaping from his unhappiness . 
said Alaric , as they walked arm-in-arm under the windows of Whitehall . 
What business had Alaric to utter such words as triumph and disappointment ! 
He could not keep his arm , on which Alaric was leaning , from spasmodically shrinking from the touch . 
He had been beaten by a man , nay worse , had yielded to a man , who had not the common honesty to refuse a bribe ; and yet he was bound to love this man . 
It ran as follows : -- `` My dear Mrs. Woodward , -- `` I write a line to tell you of my discomforture and Alaric 's success . 
No one seemed to doubt that Alaric would get it , as a matter of course . 
Alaric says he will not go down till the Saturday after , when I shall be at Normansgrove . 
And she wrote also , as she was bound to do , a letter of congratulation to Alaric . 
Alaric perceived instantly that it was not cordial . 
He loved Mrs. Woodward dearly , and greatly desired her love and sympathy . 
he could not have everything . 
He determined , therefore , not to trouble his mind . 
If Mrs. Woodward did not sympathise with him , others of the family would do so ; and success would ultimately bring her round . 
Alaric also received a letter from Captain Cuttwater , in which that gallant veteran expressed his great joy at the result of the examination -- `` Let the best man win all the world over , '' said he , `` whatever his name is . 
Alaric did not despise the sympathy of Captain Cuttwater . 
It was natural that their conversation should turn to Alaric and Harry . 
Alaric , however , with his happy prospects was soon dismissed ; but Mrs. Woodward continued to sing the praises of him who , had she been potent with the magi of the Civil Service , would now be the lion of the Weights and Measures . 
`` Alaric says in his letter to Uncle Bat , that had he persevered he would in all probability have been successful . '' 
`` Well , I do n't know , mama ; that of course depends on his motives ; but would n't generosity of that sort between two young men in such a position be absurd ? '' 
`` You mean that such regard for his friend would be Quixotic . '' 
`` Oh , Harry , '' said Katie , `` we are so sorry -- that is , not sorry about Alaric , but sorry about you . 
Alaric is a clever fellow ; everybody gave him credit for it before , and now he has proved that everybody is right . '' 
`` He is older than you , you know , and therefore he ought to be cleverer , '' said Katie , trying to make things pleasant . 
Had Alaric been coming to his wooing , he would have had every faculty at his call . 
But then Alaric could not have loved as Norman loved . 
`` Why , oh why , '' thought she , `` should that greedy Alaric have taken away the only prize ? '' 
But being , as he was , wet through and without clothes , this could not be thought of , and he had nothing for it but to go on and encounter Alaric at the lodgings in London . 
And as he went he reflected that it would be better for him to do so . 
It would be better that Alaric should learn the truth from him than at the Cottage . 
That he must learn the truth sooner or later , Norman felt to be unavoidable . 
Alaric had been in his room for the last two hours , but of Charley and his latch-key Mrs. Richards knew nothing . 
On the following morning Alaric , when he got his hot water , heard that Norman had returned during the night from Hampton , and he immediately guessed what had brought him back . 
As Charley seldom made his appearance at the breakfast table on Sunday mornings , Alaric foresaw that he must undergo a tête-à-tête which would not be agreeable to himself , and which must be much more disagreeable to his companion ; but for this there was no help . 
`` Alaric , '' said he , `` I proposed to Gertrude , last night , and she refused me . '' 
Alaric Tudor was deeply grieved for his friend . 
There was something in the rejected suitor 's countenance , something in his tone of voice , which would have touched any heart softer than stone ; and Alaric 's heart had not as yet been so hardened by the world as to render him callous to the sight of such grief as this . 
For a moment he forgot himself , his own schemes and plans , aye , and his own love , and sympathised with the sorrowing rejected lover . 
`` Take my word for it , Harry , she 'll think better of it in a month or two , '' he said . 
He was lackadaisical and piteous , and Alaric , though he had endeavoured to be friendly , soon found that he had no power of imparting any comfort . 
`` Yes , I know , '' said Alaric . 
Norman left town the same afternoon , and Alaric , with his blushing honours thick upon him , was left alone . 
London was now very empty , and he was constrained to enjoy his glory very much by himself . 
He had never associated much with the Minusexes and Uppinalls , nor yet with the Jones 's and Robinsons of his own office , and it could not be expected that there should be any specially confidential intercourse between them just at the present moment . 
Undy was of course out of town with the rest of the fashionable world , and Alaric , during the next week , was left very much on his own hands . 
`` And so , '' said he to himself , as he walked solitary along the lone paths of Rotten Row , and across the huge desert to the Marble Arch , `` and so poor Harry 's hopes have been all in vain ; he has lost his promotion , and now he has lost his bride -- poor Harry ! '' 
-- and then it occurred to him that as he had acquired the promotion it might be his destiny to win the bride also . 
He had never told himself that he loved Gertrude ; he had looked on her as Norman 's own , and he , at any rate , was not the man to sigh in despair after anything that was out of his reach . 
`` If , '' as Harry had himself said , `` there was no longer any hope for him , why , '' said Alaric to himself , `` why should not I try my chance ? '' 
Of Linda , of ` dear , dearest Linda , ' at this moment he thought very little , or , perhaps , not at all . 
Of what Mrs. Woodward might say , of that he did think a good deal . 
On Saturday Alaric went down , but his arrival hardly made things more pleasant . 
Mrs. Woodward could not bring herself to be cordial with him , and the girls were restrained by a certain feeling that it would not be right to show too much outward joy in Alaric 's success . 
Linda said one little word of affectionate encouragement , but it produced no apparent return from Alaric . 
His immediate object was to recover Mrs. Woodward 's good graces ; and he thought before he went that he had reason to hope that he might do so . 
Alaric followed the captain into the well-known room in which Norman used to sleep , wondering what could be the nature of Uncle Bat 's important communication . 
`` Mr. Alaric , '' said the old man , as soon as they were both seated on opposite sides of a little Pembroke table that stood in the middle of the room , `` I was heartily glad to hear of your success at the Weights and Measures ; not that I ever doubted it if they made a fair sailing match of it . '' 
Alaric had nothing for it but to repeat again that he felt himself grateful for Captain Cuttwater 's good opinion . 
Alaric began to take his friend 's part , and declared what a very worthy fellow Harry was . 
Alaric pricked up his ears . 
So after all Captain Cuttwater was right in calling his communication important . 
`` I have got a little money , Mr. Alaric , '' he went on saying in a low modest tone , very different from that he ordinarily used ; `` I have got a little money -- not much -- and it will of course go to my niece here . '' 
`` Of course , '' said Alaric . 
`` Quite the same thing , '' said Alaric . 
Alaric declared himself aware of the fact . 
`` Not if you do n't marry , '' said Alaric , who felt rather at a loss for a proper answer . 
He could not , however , have made a better one . 
`` It 's a charming place , '' said Alaric . 
Now , Mr. Alaric , I have made up my mind , and who do you think it is ? '' 
Alaric was well aware that it was Gertrude before her name had been pronounced . 
`` No , they have not , '' said Alaric . 
Alaric laughed , and muttered something . 
said Alaric . 
Alaric said nothing . 
He did not feel inclined to tell Norman 's secret , and yet he could not belie Gertrude by contradicting the justice of Captain Cuttwater 's opinion . 
Alaric knew it very well himself also ; but he did not say so . 
This was certainly an important communication , and one to which Alaric found it very difficult to give any immediate answer . 
He said a great deal about his affection for Mrs. Woodward , of his admiration for Miss Woodward , of his strong sense of Captain Cuttwater 's kindness , and of his own unworthiness ; but he left the captain with an impression that he was not prepared at the present moment to put himself forward as a candidate for Gertrude 's hand . 
The truth was , that Alaric had been so much taken by surprise , that he had hardly known how to reply . 
Had he at once jumped at his offer , he would have appeared to be mercenary and to have been too willing to make up his mind to take a wife merely because she was offered to him with money . 
Had he declared that he had for some time loved Gertrude Woodward , he would have been making a confidant of Uncle Bat , which he was by no means willing to do . 
Alaric returned to town without saying anything of his love on the occasion either to Gertrude or to Captain Cuttwater . 
On his return to town Alaric , by appointment , called on Sir Gregory . 
That report had been written exclusively by himself , and poor Neverbend had been obliged to content himself with putting all his voluminous notes into Tudor 's hands . 
Alaric never divulged to official ears how Neverbend had halted in the course of his descent to the infernal gods . 
Alaric thanked Sir Gregory for his good opinion , and as he did so , he thought of his new banker 's account ; and of the # 300 which was lying there . 
Alaric kept his appointment at Hampton , and took Charley with him . 
And on the two following Saturdays he also went there , and on both occasions Charley accompanied him . 
He had told her that he had insisted on Alaric putting himself among the candidates , and that Alaric had strongly dissuaded him when he resolved to give up his chance . 
By degrees Mrs. Woodward allowed herself to be brought round , and to reflect that , though she grieved for Harry , there was no just reason why she should refuse her sympathy and affection to Alaric . 
And so matters went on , and Alaric regained the footing of favour , which he had for a while lost , with the mistress of the house . 
But there was one inmate of Surbiton Cottage who saw that though Alaric spent so much of his time with Mrs. Woodward , he found opportunity also for other private conversation ; and this was Linda . 
Why was it that in the moments before they dressed for dinner Alaric was whispering with Gertrude and not with her ? 
Why was it that Alaric had felt it necessary to stay from church that Sunday evening when Gertrude also had been prevented from going by a head-ache ? 
He had remained , he said , in order that Captain Cuttwater might have company ; but Linda was not slow to learn that Uncle Bat had been left to doze away the time by himself . 
Why , on the following Monday , had Gertrude been down so early , and why had Alaric been over from the inn full half-an-hour before his usual time ? 
But even then she did not , could not think that Alaric could be untrue to her ; that her own sister would rob her of her lover . 
`` I dare say Alaric had a head-ache too . 
Alaric never said he had a head-ache . '' 
`` He said he stayed from church to be with Uncle Bat ; but when we came back we found him with you . '' 
Linda should have remembered that she had never breathed a word to her sister of Alaric 's passion for herself . 
How very little of that passion had Alaric breathed himself ; and yet , alas ! 
On the Monday morning , as soon as Alaric and Charley had started for town -- it was the morning on which Linda had been provoked to find that both Gertrude and Alaric had been up half-an-hour before they should have been -- Gertrude followed her mother to her dressing-room , and , with palpitating heart , closed the door behind her . 
mama , pray do n't set him against Alaric because of this -- '' `` Set him against Alaric ! 
`` No , nor with Alaric , '' said she , almost with indignation . 
`` But you are blaming Alaric . '' 
his friendship for Alaric will be greatly tried . '' 
`` And , mama , has not Alaric 's friendship been tried ? 
`` But you think nothing of Alaric ? '' 
`` Alaric is successful , my dear , and can -- '' think sufficiently of himself , Mrs. Woodward was going to say , but she stopped herself . 
`` Harry told him all , '' continued Gertrude , `` and Alaric -- Alaric said nothing of his own feelings . 
Alaric never said a word to me that he might not have said before his friend -- till -- till -- ; you must own , mama , that no one can have behaved more nobly than Alaric has done . '' 
But then she was not in love with Alaric , and her daughter was . 
She thought that Alaric 's love was a passion that had but lately come to the birth , and that had he been true to his friend -- nobly true as Gertrude had described him -- it would never have been born at all , or at any rate not till Harry had had a more prolonged chance of being successful with his suit . 
Mrs. Woodward understood human nature better than her daughter , or , at least , flattered herself that she did so , and she felt well assured that Alaric had not been dying for love during the period of Harry 's unsuccessful courtship . 
He might , she thought , have waited a little longer before he chose for his wife the girl whom his friend had loved , seeing that he had been made the confidant of that love . 
After all , she had some slight twinge of conscience , some inward conviction that she was prejudiced in Harry 's favour , as her daughter was in Alaric 's . 
Then she had lost all right to object to Alaric , by allowing him to be so constantly at the Cottage ; and then again , there was nothing to which in reason she could object . 
In point of immediate income , Alaric was now the better match of the two . 
She kissed her daughter , therefore , and promised that she would do her best to take Alaric to her heart as her son-in-law . 
yes -- certainly , my dear ; of course he 'll be told . 
`` I think he should be told , mama ; I should not like him to think that he was treated with anything like disrespect . '' 
`` Very well , my dear , I 'll tell him , '' said Mrs. Woodward , who was somewhat surprised at her daughter 's punctilious feelings about Uncle Bat . 
Alaric loves her already as dearly as if she were his own sister . '' 
She had perceived , with a mother 's anxious eye , that her second daughter was not indifferent to Alaric Tudor . 
Mrs. Woodward had always felt sufficiently confident that Alaric would push himself in the world , and she would have made no objection to him as a son-in-law had he been contented to take the second instead of the first of her flock . 
`` She has accepted our dear Alaric . '' 
Our dear Alaric ! 
Either by words , or tears , or little signs of mute confession , she made her mother understand , with all but exactness , what had passed between Alaric and herself , and quite exactly what had been the state of her own heart . 
As matters stood it behoved them to make such a sheep of Alaric as might be found practicable . 
And she had worse than this to do ; she had to encounter Alaric , and to wish him joy of his bride ; she had to protect her female pride from the disgrace which a hopeless but acknowledged love would throw on it ; she had to live in the house with Alaric as though he were her brother , and as though she had never thought to live with him in any nearer tie . 
Her heart was capable of truest love , and she had loved Alaric truly . 
When Alaric first came down , which he did in the middle of the week , she was , as she told her mother , too weak to stand in his presence . 
Her mother strongly advised her not to absent herself ; so she sat gently by , while he kissed Mrs. Woodward and Katie . 
It did come ; Alaric with an assurance which told more for his courage than for his heart , came up to her , and with a smiling face offered her his hand . 
She rose up and muttered some words which she had prepared for the occasion , and he , still holding her by the hand , stooped down and kissed her cheek . 
Mrs. Woodward looked on with an angry flush on her brow , and hated him for his cold-hearted propriety of demeanour . 
It was very grievous to Mrs. Woodward to have to welcome Alaric to her house . 
For Alaric 's own sake she would no longer have troubled herself to do so ; but Gertrude was still her daughter , her dear child . 
For Gertrude 's sake she had to make Alaric welcome ; she forced herself to smile on him and call him her son ; to make him more at home in her house even than Harry had ever been ; to give him privileges which he , wolf as he was , had so little deserved . 
But Captain Cuttwater made up by the warmth of his congratulations for any involuntary coolness which Alaric might have detected in those of Mrs. Woodward . 
It had become a strong wish of the old man 's heart that he might make Alaric , at any rate in part , his heir , without doing an injustice to his niece or her family . 
He had soon seen and appreciated what he had called the ` gumption ' both of Gertrude and Alaric . 
Had Harry married Gertrude , and Alaric Linda , he would have regarded either of those matches with disfavour . 
But now he was quite satisfied -- now he could look on Alaric as his son and Gertrude as his daughter , and use his money according to his fancy , without incurring the reproaches of his conscience . 
`` Quite right , my boy , '' he said to Alaric , slapping him on the back at the same time with pretty nearly all his power -- `` quite right . 
Alaric was , of course , all smiles and good-humour , and Gertrude not less so . 
The day after he heard of the engagement Uncle Bat went to town , and , on his return , he gave Gertrude # 100 to buy her wedding clothes , and half that sum to her mother , in order that the thing might go off , as he expressed himself , `` slip slap , and no mistake . '' 
To Linda he gave nothing , but promised her that he would not forget her when her time came . 
Mrs. Woodward wrote first , and on the following day both Gertrude and Alaric wrote to him , the former from Hampton , and the latter from his office in London . 
Strange to say , though Harry had studiously rejected from his mind all idea of hope as regarded Gertrude , nevertheless the first tidings of her betrothal with Alaric struck him as though he had still fancied himself a favoured lover . 
He felt as though , in his absence , he had been robbed of a prize which was all his own ; as though a chattle had been taken from him to which he had a full right ; as though all the Hampton party , Mrs. Woodward included , were in a conspiracy to defraud him the moment his back was turned . 
He had told Alaric of his rejection , because he had already told him of his love , but he had whispered no word of it to any one besides . 
She had felt , however , that she owed as much , at least , to her daughter , as she did to him , and she failed to call Alaric perjured , false , dishonoured , unjust , disgraced , and treacherous . 
Nothing short of her doing so would have been deemed by Norman fitting mention of Tudor 's sin ; nothing else would have satisfied the fury of his wrath . 
On the next morning he received Gertrude 's letter and Alaric 's . 
The latter he never read -- he opened it , saw that it began as usual , `` My dear Harry , '' and then crammed it into his pocket . 
By return of post it went back under a blank cover , addressed to Alaric , at the Weights and Measures . 
He abstained from making any such oath as to the Woodwards ; but determined that his conduct in that respect should be governed by the manner in which Alaric was received by them . 
But Gertrude 's letter he read over and over again , and each time he did so he indulged in a fresh burst of hatred against the man who had deceived him . 
`` A dishonest villain , '' he said to himself , over and over again ; `` what right had I to suppose he would be true to me when I found that he had been so false to others ? '' 
`` You must not , must not , must not be angry with Alaric , '' she went on to say , as soon as she had told her tale . 
Not be angry with Alaric ! 
`` Their happiness would not be perfect unless he would consent to share it ! '' 
Before Alaric had had time to know his own mind , he had learnt that Norman claimed the beauty as his own . 
The course had been open for Norman ; he had made his effort without hindrance on Alaric 's part , and had failed . 
To him , at any rate , Alaric had in this been no traitor . 
But who could excuse Alaric 's falseness to Linda ? 
And yet Linda had forgiven him . 
Harry Norman made no answer to either of his three letters beyond that of sending Alaric 's back unread ; but this , without other reply , was sufficient to let them all guess , nearly with accuracy , what was the state of his mind . 
Alaric told Gertrude how his missive had been treated , and Gertrude , of course , told her mother . 
To Alaric this , at the moment , was a relief . 
He had dreaded the return of Norman to London . 
All Norman 's things , his books and clothes , his desks and papers and pictures , his whips and sticks , and all those sundry belongings which even a bachelor collects around him , were strewing the rooms in which Alaric still lived . 
He had of course felt that it was impossible that they should ever again reside together . 
And yet some intercourse must be maintained between them ; they must daily meet in the rooms at the Weights and Measures ; and it would now in their altered position become necessary that in some things Norman should receive instructions from Alaric as his superior officer . 
But if Alaric thought of this often , so did Norman ; and before the last fortnight had expired the thinking of it had made him so ill , that his immediate return to London was out of the question . 
Not the slightest allusion was made either to Gertrude or Alaric , except that which might seem to be conveyed in the intimation that he could make no more visits to Hampton . 
Linda said it was very sad ; and Gertrude said , not to her mother but to Alaric , that it was heartless . 
Alaric said nothing ; but he went on with his wooing , and this he did so successfully , as to make Gertrude painfully alive to what would have been , in her eyes , the inferiority of her lot , had she unfortunately allowed herself to become the victim of Norman 's love . 
Alaric went on with his wooing , and he also went on with his share-buying . 
Undy Scott had returned to town for a week or two to wind up the affairs of his expiring secretaryship , and he made Alaric understand that a nice thing might yet be done in Mary Janes . 
Alaric had been very foolish to sell so quickly ; so at least said Undy . 
To this Alaric replied that he had bought the shares thoughtlessly , and had felt a desire to get rid of them as quickly as he could . 
Those were scruples at which Undy laughed pleasantly , and Alaric soon laughed with him . 
Alaric supposed that he might . 
Alaric , pupil as he was to the great Sir Gregory , declared that he also agreed with him . 
Alaric did not sift the matter very deeply , nor ask Undy , or himself either , whether in using the contents of his purse in the purchase of shares he would be justified in turning to his own purpose any information which he might obtain in his official career . 
Nor did he again offer to put that broad test to himself which he had before proposed , and ask himself whether he would dare to talk of what he was doing in the face of day , in his own office , before Sir Gregory , or before the Neverbends of the Service . 
said Alaric to himself with a proud ambition ; and so he attempted to rise by the purchase and sale of mining shares . 
When he was fairly engaged in the sport , his style of play so fascinated Undy that they embarked in a sort of partnership , pro hâc vice , good to last during the ups and downs of Wheal Mary Jane . 
`` Well , I 'll see , '' said Alaric ; and as he said it , he felt that his face was tinged with a blush of shame . 
who would look at the dirt on his gaiters , if he filled his bag with game ? 
She misdoubted Charley 's judgment in the choice of lodgings , and therefore she talked over the matter with Alaric . 
It was at last decided that he , Alaric , should move instead of driving Norman away . 
His final movement would now soon take place ; that movement which would rob him of the freedom of lodginghood and invest him with all the ponderous responsibility and close restraint of a householder . 
Though Charley was related to Alaric , there had always apparently been a closer friendship between him and Norman than between the two cousins ; and now , in his fierce unbridled quarrel with Alaric , and in his present coolness with the Woodwards , he seemed to turn to Charley with more than ordinary affection . 
He had hitherto sat at the same desk with Alaric , each of them occupying one side of it ; on his return he found himself opposite to a stranger . 
Alaric had , of course , been promoted to a room of his own . 
On the next morning Alaric , having acknowledged to himself the necessity of breaking the ice , walked into the room where Norman sat with three or four others . 
`` Pretty well , I believe , sir ; I think I begin to understand them now , '' said the tyro , producing for Alaric 's gratification five or six folio sheets covered with intricate masses of figures . 
yes ; that will do very well , '' said Alaric , taking up one of the sheets and looking at it with an assumed air of great interest . 
Though he acted his part pretty well , his mind was very far removed from Mr. Embryo 's efforts . 
`` By the bye , Norman , '' said Alaric , `` when will it suit you to look through those Scotch papers with me ? '' 
`` My name , sir , is Mr. Norman , '' said Harry , getting up and standing by his chair with all the firmness of a Paladin of old . 
`` With all my heart , '' said Alaric . 
And then Alaric , pushing Mr. Embryo from his chair without much ceremony , sat down opposite to his former friend , and said and did what he had to say and do with an easy unaffected air , in which there was , at any rate , none of the usual superciliousness of a neophyte 's authority . 
Norman was too agitated to speak reasonably , or to listen calmly , but Alaric knew that though he might not do so to-day , he would to-morrow , or if not to-morrow , the next day ; and so from day to day he came into Norman 's room and transacted his business . 
All that he said and all that he thought was exactly what he might have said and thought had Alaric not taken from him his affianced bride . 
No suitor had ever felt his suit to be more hopeless than he had done ; and yet he now regarded himself as one whose high hopes of happy love had all been destroyed by the treachery of a friend and the fickleness of a woman . 
There was no mitigating his anger against Alaric . 
She had taught herself to look on Alaric as her sister 's husband , and though in doing so she had suffered , and did still suffer , she now thought of her own lost lover in no other guise . 
He had given a thousand pounds to Alaric , and settled # 150 a year on Gertrude , payable , of course , after his death . 
He and Alaric had fraternized so greatly of late that the latter had , as a matter of course , asked him to his wedding , and Mrs. Woodward had of course expressed her delight at receiving Alaric 's friend . 
And so Gertrude Woodward became Gertrude Tudor , and she and Alaric were whirled away by a post-chaise and post-boy , done out with white bows , to the Hampton-Court station ; from thence they whisked up to London , and then down to Dover ; and there we will leave them . 
Alaric made a speech , in which he said he was quite unworthy of his present happiness , and Gertrude picked up all the bijous , gold pencil-cases , and silver cream-jugs , which were thrown at her from all sides . 
All the men made speeches , and all the women laughed , but the speech of the day was that celebrated one made by Sir Gregory , in which he gave a sketch of Alaric Tudor as the beau ideal of a clerk in the Civil Service . 
`` His heart , '' said he , energetically , `` is at the Weights and Measures ; '' but Gertrude looked at him as though she did not believe a word of it . 
And so Alaric and Gertrude were whisked away , and the wedding guests were left to look sheepish at each other , and take themselves off as best they might . 
The Woodwards foolishly enough had taught themselves to look forward , during the week , to the coming of the Saturday evening , when their circle was increased and their feminine monotony relieved , by the arrival of their friends from London ; till now , left without Harry Norman and Alaric Tudor , they were dull enough . 
And so for a while Norman was , as it were , divided from his old friends , whereas Tudor , as a matter of course , was one of themselves . 
It was only natural that Mrs. Woodward should forgive Alaric and receive him to her bosom , now that he was her son-in-law . 
In this way Mrs. Woodward was reconciled to Alaric , and the family , for a while , went on quietly , with mutual good-will to each other . 
In this respect indeed Alaric 's commencement of life had somewhat frightened Mrs. Woodward , and the more prudent of his friends . 
Grand as his official promotion had been , his official income at the time of his marriage did not exceed 600l . 
But nevertheless Alaric and Gertrude did `` see their friends . '' 
They kept a man-servant and lived altogether in a comme il faut way , considering that he was only a clerk in the Weights and Measures , without a fortune , and that her addition to their joint income was contingent on the death of uncle Bat . 
The thousand pounds which had been produced immediately had , of course , been expended in honeymooning and furniture ; and , as far as any one knew , there were no other means forthcoming than Alaric 's bare salary . 
On the whole , Alaric had hitherto done pretty well with his shares ; he had made money on some , and had of course lost money on others ; the balance , however , was still considerably on the right side . 
Much of Gertrude 's society had consisted of that into which Alaric was thrown by his friendship with Undy Scott . 
But I want you to arrange about the carriage ; you can do that with Mr. Tudor , and I can settle with you afterwards . 
Captain Scott wo n't go , of course ; but I have no doubt Undecimus and Mr. Tudor will come later and bring us home ; we can manage very well with the one carriage . '' 
Of Undy 's wife Alaric saw nothing and heard little , but it suited Undy to make use of his sister-in-law 's house , and it suited Alaric to be intimate with Undy 's sister-in-law . 
This was nothing to Alaric now , and might not be considered to be much to Undy . 
He was also Alaric 's cousin , and therefore , acceptable . 
Undy did not exactly open his mind to Alaric Tudor in this matter . 
Alaric 's education was going on rapidly ; but his mind had not yet received with sufficient tenacity those principles of philosophy which would enable him to look at this scheme in its proper light . 
He had already learnt the great utility , one may almost say the necessity , of having a command of money ; he was beginning also to perceive that money was a thing not to be judged of by the ordinary rules which govern a man 's conduct . 
So much Alaric had learnt , and had been no inapt scholar . 
But he had not yet appreciated the full value of the latitude allowed by the genius of the present age to men who deal successfully in money . 
As Alaric 's stomach was not yet quite suited for strong food , Undy fitted this matter to his friend 's still juvenile capacities . 
This would only be a mark of true friendship on the part of Undy ; and on Alaric 's part , it would be no more than one cousin would be bound to do for another . 
Looking at it in this light , Alaric saw nothing in the matter which could interfere with his quiet conscience . 
And thus Alaric , intent mainly on the interest of his cousin , and actuated perhaps a little by the feeling that a rich cousin would be more serviceable than a poor one , set himself to work , in connection with Undy Scott , to make prey of Clementina Golightly 's 20,000 l . 
But if Undy had no difficulty in securing the cooperation of Alaric in this matter , Alaric by no means found it equally easy to secure the cooperation of Charley . 
When , therefore , Alaric first spoke to him of marrying 20,000 l. and Clementina Golightly , his surprise was unbounded . 
said Alaric , `` and a doosed fine girl , you know ; '' and he also laid great stress on the latter part of the offer , knowing how inflammable was Charley 's heart , and at the same time how little mercenary was his mind . 
To this Alaric replied that as Clementina had not much sense to speak of , that objection might fall to the ground . 
Then Charley expressed an idea that Miss Golightly 's friends might probably object when they learnt what were the exact pecuniary resources of the expectant husband ; to which Alaric argued that the circumstances of the case were very lucky , inasmuch as some of Clementina 's natural friends were already , prepossessed in favour of such an arrangement . 
Driven thus from two of his strongholds , Charley in the most modest of voices , in a voice one may say quite shame-faced and conscious of its master 's weakness -- suggested that he was not quite sure that at the present moment he was very much in love with the lady in question . 
Alaric had married for love , and was not two years married , yet had his education so far progressed in that short period as to enable him to laugh at such an objection . 
`` And as for loving her , '' continued Alaric , `` that 's all my eye . 
`` But you married for love , Alaric . '' 
But Charley had reasons of his own , reasons which he could not make known to Alaric , for not thinking much of , or trusting much to , Miss Golightly 's fortune . 
In the first place , he regarded marriage on such a grand scale as that now suggested , as a ceremony which must take a long time to adjust ; the wooing of a lady with so many charms could not be carried on as might be the wooing of a chambermaid or a farmer 's daughter . 
At this very moment of Alaric 's proposition , at this instant when he found himself talking with so much coolness of the expedience or inexpedience of appropriating to his own purpose a slight trifle of 20,000 l. , he was in dire strait as to money difficulties . 
He had lately , that is within the last twelve-months , made acquaintance with an interesting gentleman named Jabesh McRuen . 
Mr. Jabesh McRuen was in the habit of relieving the distresses of such impoverished young gentlemen as Charley Tudor ; and though he did this with every assurance of philanthropic regard , though in doing so he only made one stipulation , `` pray be punctual , Mr. Tudor , now pray do be punctual , sir , and you may always count on me , '' nevertheless in spite of all his goodness Mr. McRuen 's young friends seldom continued to hold their heads well up over the world 's waters . 
On the morning after this conversation with Alaric , Charley intended to call on his esteemed old friend . 
And then too Charley had other difficulties , which in his mind presented great obstacles to the Golightly scheme , though Alaric would have thought little of them , and Undy nothing . 
What was he to do with his Norfolk Street lady , his bar-maid houri , his Norah Geraghty , to whom he had sworn all manner of undying love , and for whom in some sort of fashion he really had an affection . 
He was sufficiently disinclined to speak to his cousin Alaric as to the merits either of Mr. Jabesh McRuen or of Miss Geraghty , but he could have been eloquent on either rather than whisper a word as to the third person who stood between him and the 20,000 l . 
This love of his was but a vision , but not the less on that account did it interfere with his cousin Alaric 's proposition in reference to Miss Clementina Golightly . 
On the morning after his conversation with Alaric , Charley left his lodgings with a heavy heart and wended his way towards Mecklenburg Square . 
He turned his head about and smiled and just showed the end of the bill peeping out from among a parcel of others , begged Mr. Tudor to be punctual , he would only ask him to be punctual and would in such case do anything for him , and ended his visit by making an appointment to meet Charley in the little street behind Mecklenburg Square . 
-- `` Only be punctual , Mr. Tudor ; only be punctual , and I will do anything for you , '' Mr. McRuen had said , as Charley left the house ; Charley however never had been punctual , and yet his dealings with Mr. McRuen had gone on from that day to this . 
`` How d'ye do , Mr. Tudor , how d'ye do ? 
`` Oh -- oh -- oh -- oh -- Mr. Tudor -- Mr. Tudor ! 
`` Be punctual , Mr. Tudor , only be punctual , and we shall be all right -- and so you have not any of this ? '' 
`` But you are so unpunctual , Mr. Tudor . '' 
`` I do n't think I can , Mr. Tudor ; not to-day , Mr. Tudor -- some other day , say this day month ; that is , if you 'll be punctual . '' 
`` But you are so unpunctual , Mr. Tudor , '' and Jabesh twisted his head backwards and forwards within his cravat , rubbing his chin with the interior starch . 
If I do n't give a history of your business that will surprise some people , my name is n't Tudor . '' 
`` Well really , Mr. Tudor , I would do more for you than any other young man that I know , if you were only a little more punctual -- How much is it you want now ? '' 
`` Scatterall -- I do n't like Mr. Scatterall , '' said Jabesh ; `` he is very dissipated , and the most unpunctual young man I ever met -- you really must get some one else , Mr. Tudor , you really must . '' 
There 's your cousin , Mr. Alaric Tudor . '' 
`` My cousin Alaric ! 
-- Oh , nonsense ; you do n't suppose I 'd ask him to do such a thing -- you might as well tell me to go to my father . '' 
`` Bring the bill stamp with you , Mr. Tudor , '' said Jabesh , by way of a last parting word of counsel ; `` and let Mr. Scatterall sign it -- that is if it must be Mr. Scatterall ; but I wish you would bring your cousin 's name . '' 
Mr. Snape was standing up at his desk , and the first word which greeted Charley 's ears was an intimation from that gentleman that Mr. Oldeschole had desired that Mr. Tudor , when he arrived , should be instructed to attend in the board-room . 
`` You 'll be good enough to wait a few minutes , Mr. Tudor , '' said Snape . 
`` You had better mind the lock entries at present , Mr. Tudor ; they are greatly in arrear . '' 
`` He is very bad , '' said Snape , `` but I rather think that perhaps , sir , Mr. Tudor is the worst of all . '' 
`` Well , I do n't know , '' said the Secretary , muttering sotto voce to the under secretary , while Mr. Snape read the letter -- `` Tudor , at any rate , is a gentleman . '' 
`` It will , I imagine , be necessary to make more than one example , Mr. Tudor , '' said Mr. Snape with a voice of utmost severity . 
`` Mr. Tudor to attend in the board-room , immediately , '' said a fat messenger , who opened the door wide with a start , and then stood with it in his hand while he delivered his message . 
`` Mr. Tudor -- Mr. Tudor ! '' 
`` And where are you going now , Mr. Tudor ? '' 
`` Mr. Tudor is very kind , but I 'll take beer ; '' and the little man gave a laugh and twisted his head , and ate his chop and drank his stout , as though he found that both were very good indeed . 
`` Not to-day , Mr. Tudor -- I really have n't time to go into it , to-day -- and I have n't brought the other bills with me ; I quite forgot to bring the other bills with me , and I can do nothing without them , '' and Mr. McRuen got up to go . 
do n't swear , Mr. Tudor . '' 
`` But , Mr. Tudor , let me get up , and we 'll talk about it in the street , as we go along . '' 
He knew that Tudor was in a very bad state , that he was tottering on the outside edge of the precipice ; but he also knew that he had friends . 
Would his friends when they came forward to assist their young Pickle out of the mire , would they pay such bills as these , or would they leave poor Jabesh to get his remedy at law ? 
`` I wish to oblige you , Mr. Tudor ; but pray do be punctual ; '' and so saying he slowly spread the little document before him , across which Scatterall had already scrawled his name , and slowly began to write in the date . 
said Jabesh , covering the paper over with his hands ; `` you young men know nothing of filling bills ; just sign it , Mr. Tudor , and I 'll do the rest . '' 
The cheque was for 15l. , and was payable to C. Tudor , Esq. , so that proof might be forthcoming at a future time , if necessary , that he had given to his customer full value for the bill . 
`` Four is quite enough , quite enough for what you want ; and remember my time , Mr. Tudor ; you should remember my time . '' 
laughed Mr. McRuen ; `` I thought you liked a joke , Mr. Tudor . 
It seemed as though he had transferred to Alaric 's cousin all the friendship which he had once felt for Alaric ; and the deeper were Charley 's sins of idleness and extravagance , the wider grew Norman 's forgiveness and the more sincere his efforts to befriend him . 
`` Indeed , Mr. Tudor , I am very sorry you should have taken any trouble on such a trifle . 
`` I do n't want the money at present , Mr. Tudor , '' said the widow . 
for the matter of that , no one knows it better than yourself , Mr. Tudor -- and she 's as well able to keep a man 's house over his head as some others that take a deal of pride in themselves . '' 
`` Well , the long and the short of it is this , Mr. Tudor '' -- And as she spoke the widow got a little red in the face : she had , as Charley thought , an unpleasant look of resolution about her -- a roundness about her mouth , and a sort of fierceness in her eyes . 
`` The long and the short of it is this , Mr. Tudor , what do you mean to do about the girl ? '' 
And if you 've a grain of honour in you , Mr. Tudor , and I think you are honourable , you wo n't go back from your word with the girl now . '' 
Not that I mean to compare him to you , Mr. Tudor , nor yet does n't Norah , not by no means . 
But there he is . 
Well , he comes with the most honourablest proposals , and will make her Mrs. Peppermint to-morrow , if so that she 'll have it . '' 
`` Nothing as you have any right to object to , Mr. Tudor . 
`` Then how did she get talking to him ? '' 
`` She did n't get talking to him . 
But he has eyes in his head , and you do n't suppose but what he can see with them . 
-- `` But , Mr. Tudor , I wo n't see her put upon , that long and the short of it . 
Now , Mr. Tudor , I 've spoke honest ; and if you 're the gentleman as I takes you to be , you 'll do the same . '' 
Of course she knew that such a marriage would be a dreadful misalliance for young Tudor ; of course she knew that all his friends would be heart-broken when they heard of it . 
But what had she to do with his friends ? 
`` Excuse me a minute , Mr. Tudor , '' said Mrs. Davis , who was now smiling , and civil enough . 
`` You need n't be ashamed of coming down to see him ; you have done that often enough before now . '' 
`` Here 's a start , Mr. Tudor , to be brought down stairs at this time of night ; and I 'm sure I do n't know what it 's about ; '' and then she shook her curls , and twitched her dress ; and made as though she were going to pass through the room , to her accustomed place at the bar . 
`` Well , upon my word , Mr. Tudor , '' said Miss Geraghty , `` you 're making very free to-night . '' 
`` If you had n't come down to him , he 'd have been up to you , '' said Mrs. Davis . 
`` Would he though ? '' 
said Norah : `` I think he knows a trick worth two of that ; '' and she looked as though she knew well how to defend herself , if any over zeal on the part of her lover should ever induce him to violate the sanctum of her feminine retirement . 
`` Lawks , Mr. Tudor , you need n't hold me so tight , '' said Norah . 
`` He means to hold you tight enough now , '' said Mrs. Davis . 
`` He 's very angry because I mentioned another gentleman 's name . '' 
`` Well , I just did ; and if you 'd only seen him . 
It 's all settled now , is n't it , Mr. Tudor ? '' 
`` Oh , I 'm sure , I 'm agreeable , if he is . 
I only hope he wo n't think me too forward -- he ! 
he ! 
he ! '' 
`` I 'll have nothing more to do with him , '' said Norah , bursting into tears , as soon as the door was well bolted after Charley 's exit . 
`` I 'm only losing myself with him . 
He do n't mean anything , and I said he did n't all along . 
He 'd have pitched me to Old Scratch , while I was sitting there on his knee , if he 'd have had his own way -- so he would '' -- and poor Norah cried heartily , as she went to her work in her usual way , among the bottles and taps . 
You do n't think he 's to jump down your throat , do you ! 
You can but try it on ; and then if it do n't do , why there 's the other one to fall back on ; only , if I had the choice , I 'd rather have young Tudor , too . '' 
He thought of what Alaric was , of what Norman was , of what he himself might have been -- he that was praised by Mrs. Woodward for his talent , he that was encouraged to place himself among the authors of the day ! 
She knew that his life was not like that of Harry , steady , sober , and discreet ; she knew that he was not gifted with Alaric 's ambition and intense energy ; she knew indeed that he needed to make much amends for past misconduct . 
He had been false to his father and his mother , and had never owned to them the half of what he owed ; he had been false to Alaric , and false to Harry ; but now , now at such a moment as this , he would not allow himself to be false to Mrs. Woodward . 
He never once thought of Clementina Golightly , to whom at that moment he was being married by the joint energies of Undy Scott and his cousin Alaric . 
`` From Alaric , '' said he gruffly , crumpling it up and putting it into his pocket . 
It was almost a question , as he once told Alaric , whether all that he could sell was worth all that he was compelled to buy . 
Having done what he could in the City , he came to Alaric , and prayed for the assistance of all his friend 's energies in the matter . 
Alaric would not have been , and was not , unwilling to assist him to the extent of his own immediate means ; but his own immediate means were limited , and Undy 's desire for ready cash was almost unlimited . 
It has been said that Undy and Alaric were to a certain degree in partnership in their speculations . 
But they aided and abetted and backed each other ; each took shares in the other 's speculations ; they bought and sold as it were in concert , and imparted one to another the secrets of their trade , perhaps with truth on Undy 's part , and certainly with truth as far as Alaric was concerned . 
There was a certain railway or proposed railway in Ireland , in which Undy had ventured very deeply , more so indeed than he had deemed it quite prudent to divulge to his friend ; and in order to gain certain ends he had induced Alaric to become a director of this line . 
He , with his prospect of returning to Parliament , argued that he might be able to render more efficient aid to the concern , or at any rate to his views of the concern , by being apparently independent of any interest in it as it stood before the world . 
Such being the case he had striven , not unsuccessfully , to draw Alaric into the concern . 
Alaric had bought very cheaply a good many shares , which many people said were worth nothing , and had , by dint of Undy 's machinations , been chosen a director on the board . 
Such were the circumstances under , which he came to Alaric with the view of raising such a sum of money as might enable him to overcome the scruples of the Tillietudlem electors , and place himself in the shoes lately vacated by Mr. McBuffer . 
Such were the immediate arrangements of the Tudor and Scott party . 
`` He brought his pigs to a bad market after all . '' 
`` He was an infernal rogue , '' said Alaric . 
`` Well , I suppose he was , '' said Undy . 
`` He was a downright swindler , '' said Alaric . 
`` After all , '' said the other , not paying much attention to Alaric 's indignation , `` he did not do so very badly . 
said Alaric , whom the question of McBuffer 's temporary prosperity made rather thoughtful . 
They both sat silent for awhile , Undy be-thinking himself what arguments would be most efficacious towards inducing Alaric to strip himself of every available shilling that he had ; and Alaric debating in his own mind that great question which he so often debated , as to whether men , men of the world , the great best men whom he saw around him , really endeavoured to be honest , or endeavoured only to seem so . 
Honesty was preached to him on every side ; but did he , in his intercourse with the world , find men to be honest ? 
Or did it behove him , a practical man like him , a man so determined to battle with the world as he had determined , did it behove such a one as he to be more honest than his neighbours ? 
`` It will be a great thing for you , '' said Alaric , who , as well as Undy , had his Parliamentary ambition . 
Alaric looked rather blank ; for he had invested deeply in this line , of which he was now a director of a week 's standing , or perhaps we should say sitting . 
He had sold out all his golden hopes in the Wheal Mury Jane for the sake of embarking his money and becoming a director in this Irish Railway , and in one other speculation nearer home , of which Undy had a great opinion , viz. : the Limehouse Thames Bridge Company . 
said Alaric . 
suggested Alaric . 
said Alaric . 
`` It is not that , '' said Alaric ; `` but I have n't got it . '' 
`` Every shilling I have , '' said Alaric , `` is either in the Ballydehobs or in the Limehouse Bridge . 
asked Alaric . 
`` I would n't have my name on a bill in such a man 's hands on any account , '' said Alaric . 
`` I thought you 'd kept a lot of the Mary Jane 's , '' said Alaric . 
`` I certainly shall not try them , '' said Alaric . 
To this proposition Alaric at first turned a deaf ear ; but by degrees he allowed Undy to talk him over . 
In such case , he would have no alternative at the next general election but to stand for the borough of Strathbogy in Aberdeenshire ; whereas , if he could secure Tillietudlem as a seat for himself , all the Gaberlunzie interest in the borough of Strathbogy , which was supposed to be by no means small , should be transferred to Alaric himself . 
Indeed , Sandie Scott , the eldest hope of the Gaberlunzie family , would , in such case , himself propose Alaric to the electors . 
Overcome by these and other arguments Alaric at last consented to ask from Captain Cuttwater the loan of 700l . 
That sum Undy had agreed to accept as a sufficient contribution to that desirable public object , the re-seating himself for the Tillietudlem borough ; and as Alaric on reflection thought that it would be uncomfortable to be left penniless himself , and as it was just as likely that uncle Bat would lend him 700l . 
In the first place , he liked his money , though not with any over-weening affection ; in the next place , he had done a great deal for Alaric , and did not like being asked to do more ; and lastly , he feared that there must be some evil cause for the necessity of such a loan so soon after Alaric 's marriage . 
Alaric in making his application had not done so actually without making any explanation on the subject . 
He wrote a long letter , worded very cleverly , which only served to mystify the Captain , as Alaric had intended that it should do . 
Captain Cuttwater was most anxious that Alaric , whom he looked on as his adopted son , should rise in the world ; he would have been delighted to think that he might possibly live to see him in Parliament ; would probably have made considerable pecuniary sacrifice for such an object . 
With the design , therefore , of softening Captain Cuttwater 's heart Alaric in his letter had spoken about great changes that were coming , of the necessity that there was of his stirring himself , of the great pecuniary results to be expected from a small present expenditure ; and ended by declaring that the money was to be used in forwarding the election of his friend Scott for the Tillietudlem district Burghs . 
Now , the fact was , that Uncle Bat , though he cared a great deal for Alaric , did not care a rope 's end for Undy Scott , and could enjoy his rum punch just as keenly if Mr. Scott was in obscurity as he could possibly hope to do even if that gentleman should be promoted to be a Lord of the Treasury . 
He was not at all pleased to think that his hard-earned moidores should run down the gullies of the Tillietudlem boroughs in the shape of muddy ale , or vitriolic whisky : and yet this was the first request that Alaric had ever made to him , and he did not like to refuse Alaric 's first request . 
So he came up to town himself on the following morning with Harry and Charley , determined to reconcile all these difficulties by the light of his own wisdom . 
and handed over the money to Alaric Tudor . 
Mrs. Val , Clementina , Gertrude , and Linda were to go in a carriage , for which Alaric was destined to pay , and which Mrs. Val had hired , having selected it regardless of expense , as one which by its decent exterior and polished outward graces conferred on its temporary occupiers an agreeable appearance of proprietorship . 
Slight as had been the intimacy between Fidus Neverbend and Alaric at Tavistock , nevertheless a sort of friendship had since grown up between them . 
Alaric had ascertained that Fidus might in a certain degree be useful to him , that the good word of the Aristides of the Works and Buildings might be serviceable , and that , in short , Neverbend was worth cultivating . 
Neverbend , on the other hand , when he perceived that Tudor was likely to become a Civil-service hero , a man to be named with glowing eulogy at all the Government Boards in London , felt unconsciously a desire to pay him some of that reverence which a mortal always feels for a god . 
Not that Mrs. Val , or even Mrs. A. Tudor , encountered Lactimel and Ugolina Neverbend on equal terms . 
Alaric and Charley were to come down there when their office work was done . 
Undy was by this time on his road to Tillietudlem ; and Captain Val was playing billiards at his club . 
The latter had given a promise that he would make his appearance , a promise , however , which no one expected , or wished him to keep . 
The happy Victoire was dressed up to his eyes . 
That , perhaps , is not saying much , for he was only a few feet high ; but what he wanted in quantity , he fully made up in quality . 
He was a well made , shining , jaunty little Frenchman , who seemed to be perfectly at ease with himself , and all the world . 
He had the smallest little pair of moustaches imaginable , the smallest little imperial , the smallest possible pair of boots , and the smallest possible pair of gloves . 
Nothing on earth could be nicer , or sweeter , or finer than he was . 
But he did not carry his finery like a hog in armour , as an Englishman so often does when an Englishman stoops to be fine . 
But Alaric and Charley were coming she knew ; Alaric was her brother-in-law now , and therefore she would be delighted to meet him ; and Charley , dear Charley , she had not seen him since he went away that morning , now four days since ; and four days was a long time , considering that he had saved her life . 
There was much shaking of hands to be done , and a considerable taking off of hats to be gone through ; and as Alaric and Charley encountered the head of the column first , it was only natural that they should work their way through it gradually . 
Alaric had not seen her yet since her ducking . 
She had to listen to , and to answer his congratulations , Charley standing by and making his comments . 
`` Charley says you took to the water quite naturally , and swam like a duck , '' said Alaric . 
`` All bathers ought to do that , '' said Alaric ; `` and tell me , Katie , did you feel comfortable when you were in the water ? '' 
And then Alaric went on , and Charley and Katie were left together . 
Charley was , of course , one of the party at dinner ; and as there was no other gentleman there , Alaric had an excellent opportunity , when the ladies went up to their toilets , to impress on his cousin the expediency of his losing no time in securing to himself Miss Golightly 's twenty thousand pounds . 
said Alaric , pushing over the bottle to his cousin , as soon as they found themselves alone . 
He had not been in the habit of discussing such matters , but it seemed to him , that if Alaric was about to become in any legal manner the guardian of Miss Golightly 's fortune , that that in itself was reason enough why he , Alaric , should not propose such a match as this . 
Needy men , to be sure , did often marry rich ladies , and the world looked on and regarded it only as a matter of course ; but surely it would be the duty of a guardian to protect his ward from such a fate , if it were in his power to do so . 
Alaric , who saw something of what was going on in his cousin 's mind , essayed to remove the impression which was thus made . 
As he thought of this , he felt horror-stricken with himself at allowing the idea of his becoming a suitor to another to dwell for an instant on his mind , and looking up with all the resolution which he was able to summon , he said -- `` It 's impossible , Alaric , quite impossible ! 
said Alaric , who was angry at having his scheme thus thwarted ; `` do you mean to be a beggar -- or if not , how do you intend to get out of your difficulties ? '' 
and Alaric laughed somewhat cruelly at the poor navvy -- `` do something by writing ! 
And I 'll tell you what , Alaric , I 'd sooner earn 50l . 
said Alaric . 
said Alaric , still sneering -- `` there is no sign of the dishonesty of the age so strong , as the continual talk which one hears about honesty ! '' 
It was quite manifest that Alaric had not sat at the feet of Undy Scott without profiting by the lessons which he had heard . 
`` With what face , '' continued he , `` can you pretend to be more honest than your neighbours ? '' 
`` There are a great many wrong and unmanly men about then , '' said Alaric . 
Charley became very red in the face as he sat silent listening to Alaric 's address -- nor did he speak at once , at the first pause , so Alaric went on . 
And as for you , Alaric , all who know you and love you , watch your career with the greatest hope . 
It must not be supposed from all this that Alaric had inured himself to unjust conduct ; that his conscience was blunted , and his desire for rectitude all quenched . 
He still wished to be an honest man ; but he imagined that he could best show his abhorrence of the humbug of the mock honesty of the age by sailing near the wind ; he would not , so he said to himself , be frightened by shadows ; and , alas ! 
by degrees solid substances became shadows in his sight . 
Charley had at any rate made up his mind to this , that he would not enter the lists as one of Clementina 's suitors ; and Alaric , perceiving that such was the case , had to look about and see how his own object might be attained in another way . 
It would be very desirable that he should for a while have the fingering of Miss Golightly 's money , and as his cousin was so stubborn and stupid some other method must be devised . 
Alaric will be our vis à vis -- he is going to dance with Miss Neverbend , '' and so they stood up . 
who was it , Mr. Tudor ? '' 
`` Oh no , '' said Katie -- `` no they do n't -- mama , and Linda , and Gertrude never do ; nor Harry Norman , he never does , nor Alaric . '' 
He made no êxception to Katie 's list of truth-tellers , but he was thinking within himself whether Alaric had a juster right to be in the catalogue than himself . 
He was half laughing as he spoke , but Katie 's sharp ear knew that he was more than half in earnest , and she felt she had pained him by what she had said . 
she wanted to console him , she wanted to be kind , and yet she could not be dishonest . 
I like you better than either of them , though Alaric is my brother-in-law . 
There was something almost approaching to ferocity in his voice as he said this ; and yet when Katie timidly looked up she saw that he had turned his back to the room , and that his eyes were full of tears . 
He had felt that he was loved by this child , but that he was loved from a feeling of uncalled for gratitude . 
He could not stop to analyze this , to separate the sweet from the bitter ; but he knew that the latter prevailed . 
It was thought better that she should remain in town , and Alaric took Linda down to Hampton . 
As it was a fine night Alaric had declared his intention of walking home from Mrs. Val 's party , and he and Charley started together . 
They soon parted on their roads , but not before Alaric had had time to notice Charley 's perverse stupidity as to Miss Golightly . 
said he . 
`` It was quite impossible , Alaric , '' said Charley , in an apologetic voice . 
Alaric 's suggestion with reference to the heiress was quite correct . 
`` Mr. Tudor , '' she began , not a bit abashed , `` I want to know what it is you are going to do . '' 
`` And , Mr. Tudor , what are you agoing to do about that poor girl there ? '' 
`` Hushing wo n't do no good ; there 's that girl a dying , and her grave 'll be a top of your head , Mr. Tudor ; mind I tell you that fairly ; so now I want to know what it is you 're a going to do . '' 
`` She 's a dying , I tell you , Mr. Tudor , '' continued the landlady , `` and if she do die , be sure of this I wo n't be slow to tell the truth about it . 
`` Well , Mr. Tudor , will you be so good as to tell me what it is you 're going to do about this poor girl ? '' 
On that same day , the day that was to witness Charley 's betrothal to Miss Geraghty , and that of M. Jaquêtanàpe with Miss Golightly , Alaric Tudor had an appointment with Sir Gregory Hardlines at the new office of the Civil Service Examination Board . 
Alaric had been invited to wait upon the great man , in terms which made him perfectly understand that the communication to be made was one which would not be unpleasing or uncomplimentary to himself . 
Indeed , he pretty well guessed what was to be said to him . 
Since his promotion at the Weights and Measures he had gone on rising in estimation as a man of value to the Civil Service at large . 
Nearly two years had now passed since that date , and in these pages nothing has been said of his official career during the time . 
It had , however , been everything that he or his friends could have wished it to be . 
He had so put himself forward , as absolutely to have satisfied the actual chief clerk of his office , and was even felt by some of the secretaries to be treading very closely on their heels . 
Sir Gregory in the meantime was instructed to suggest the name of another colleague ; and , therefore , he sent for Alaric Tudor . 
Alaric , of course , knew well what had been going on at the Board . 
He had been Sir Gregory 's confidential man all through ; had worked out cases for him , furnished him with arguments , backed his views ; and had assisted him , whenever such a course had been necessary , in holding Mr. Jobbles ' head under the pump . 
Alaric knew well on which side his bread was buttered , and could see with a glance which star was in the ascendant ; he perfectly understood the points and merits of the winning horse . 
He went in to win upon Sir Gregory , and he won . 
When Mr. Jobbles made his last little speech at the Board , and retired to his house in the Dean 's yard , Alaric felt tolerably certain that he himself would be invited to fill the vacant place . 
And he was so invited . 
a year , at any rate , '' said he to himself , as with many words of submissive gratitude he thanked his patron for the nomination . 
So he went to his old office , wrote his resignation , and walked home meditating to what next step above he should now aspire to rise . 
he still said to himself , Excelsior ! 
`` Then , Mr. Tudor , I must trouble you to copy these papers for me at once . 
`` I 'm afraid I must trouble you to go with me , Mr. Tudor , '' said the man . 
He declined , however , the assistance of the landlady , which no doubt would have been willingly forthcoming , and was divided between his three friends , Alaric , Harry , and Mr. McRuen . 
Alaric was his cousin , and his natural resource in such a position , but he had lately rejected Alaric 's advice , and now felt a disinclination to call upon him in his difficulty . 
Harry he knew would assist him , would at once pay Mr. Outerman 's bill and relieve him from all immediate danger ; but the sense of what he already owed to Norman made him unwilling to incur further obligations ; -- so he decided on sending for Mr. McRuen . 
`` And what is it that I can do for you , Mr. Tudor ? '' 
You owe me a great deal of money , Mr. Tudor . 
`` Ha -- ha -- ha , '' laughed the good-humoured usurer ; `` ha -- ha -- ha -- well upon my word I do n't know -- you owe me a great deal of money , Mr. Tudor . 
Come , Mr. Tudor , you owe me a great deal of money ; and you are the most unpunctual young man I know ; but yet I do n't like to see you distressed . 
`` Tell us , Mrs. Richards , what is it -- what has happened to Mr. Tudor , '' and as she spoke Mrs. Woodward got up and passed her arm round her younger daughter 's waist -- Linda also got up and joined the group . 
`` Why , ma'am , '' said Mrs. Richards , `` he 's been took by the bailiffs , and now he 's in prison . '' 
He communicated his good fortune to his friend Alaric in the following letter : -- `` Bellenden Arms , `` Tillietudlem , July 185 -- . 
During the month of July Alaric was busy enough . 
He had to do the work of his new office , to attend to his somewhat critical duties as director of the West Cork Railway , to look after the interests of Miss Golightly whose marriage was to take place in August , and to watch the parliamentary career of his friend Undy , with whose pecuniary affairs he was now bound up in a manner which he could not avoid feeling to be very perilous . 
Nor was he altogether happy . 
He had , it is true , much pleasure in taking his seat in a leathern arm-chair , at Sir Gregory 's right hand , and in feeling that by his own unaided exertions he had raised himself to this position , while he was yet under thirty years of age . 
And then Undy Scott became tyrannical in his logic , and sneered at Alaric 's scruples when Alaric had no longer the power , even if he had the will , to pay back the sneers with scorn . 
a share , and as Undy and Alaric held nearly a thousand shares between them , a large amount of money was required . 
Thus Alaric obtained full control of Miss Golightly 's fortune , for Figgs , his co-trustee , was , as has been said , a shadow . 
He obtained the full control of 20,000 l. , and out of it he paid the calls due upon the West Cork shares , held both by himself and Undy Scott . 
We have said that Undy Scott became tyrannical in his logic as soon as he had persuaded Alaric to make use of a portion of Madame Jaquêtanàpe 's marriage portion . 
Alaric was not addressed absolutely in these words ; he would not probably have allowed the veil with which he still shrouded his dishonesty to be withdrawn with so rough a hand ; but that which was said , was in effect the same . 
In September he left town for a few weeks and went down to Scotland , still with Undy Scott . 
Alaric Tudor was now a rogue ; despite his high office , his grand ideas , his exalted ambition ; despite his talent , zeal , and well-directed official labours , he was a rogue , a thief , a villain who had stolen the money of the orphan , who had undertaken a trust merely that he might break it ; a robber , doubly disgraced by being a robber with an education , a Bill Sykes without any of those excuses which a philanthropist can not but make for wretches brought up in infamy . 
And thus Alaric Tudor had , become a rogue , and was obliged , as it were in his own defence , to consort with a rogue . 
He went down to Scotland with Undy leaving his wife and child at home , not because he could thus best amuse his few leisure days , but because this new work of his , this laborious trade of roguery , allowed him no leisure days . 
Among other things to be done in the north , Alaric was to make acquaintance with the constituents of the little borough of Strathbogy , which it was his ambition to represent in the next Parliament . 
Ca ` stocks Cottage , as his residence was called , was but a humble house for a peer 's eldest son ; but Mr. Scott was not ashamed to live there , and there for a while he entertained his brother Undy and Alaric Tudor . 
This , however , was clear , that he did not intend to stand again himself , and that he professed himself ready to put forward Alaric Tudor as a worthy successor , and to give him the full benefit and weight of the Gaberlunzie interest . 
But not for nothing was Alaric to receive such important assistance . 
This was not the first occasion on which Undy had spoken of all that he was doing for his friend , and Alaric therefore , somewhat disgusted with the subject , made no reply . 
`` Well , that will be a comfort , '' said Alaric . 
`` That was a bore for you , '' said Alaric . 
`` If the obligation be so deep , '' said Alaric , becoming very red in the face , `` I would rather not accept it . 
`` Considering that the election will not take place for at least more than twelve months , there will be time enough to settle that , '' said Alaric . 
said he . 
`` None , '' said Alaric . 
Alaric winced , and wished in his heart that Clementina Jaquêtanàpe , née Golightly , with all her money , was buried deep in the bogs of Ballydehob . 
Though he was a rogue , he could not yet bear his rogery with comfort to himself . 
Alaric understood it well ; it made him hate the owner of it , but it made him hate himself still more . 
`` It is as well to be hung for a sheep as for a lamb , '' said Undy 's smile ; `` and , moreover , '' continued the smile , `` is it not ridiculous enough for you , Alaric Tudor , rogue as you are , to profess to me , Undy Scott , rogue as I am , any solicitude as to your ward 's welfare , seeing that you have already taken to yourself , for your own dishonest purposes , a considerable slice of the fortune that has been trusted to your keeping . 
Alaric did not at all like being addressed so uncivilly . 
It seemed to tend but little to that ` Excelsior ' for which his soul panted ; but what could he do ? 
how could he help himself ? 
could he contradict the smile ? 
it was true ; it was useless for him now to attempt even to combat such smiles . 
his future course might now probably be called by some very different designation . 
Before they had returned to Ca ` stocks Cottage Undy had succeeded in persuading his friend that the game must be played on -- on and on , and out . 
All these valuable lessons did Undy Scott teach to Alaric Tudor , and the result was , that Alaric agreed to order -- for self and partner -- a considerable number of shares in the Limehouse Bridge Company . 
And so from morning to morning , and from night to night , they talked over their unholy trade till the price of shares and the sounds of sums of money entered into Alaric 's soul . 
At the Weights and Measures Alaric 's hours of business had been from ten to five . 
In Undy 's office they continued from one noon to the next , incessantly ; even in his dreams he was working in the share market . 
On his return to town Alaric found a letter from Captain Cuttwater pressing very urgently for the re-payment of his money . 
Alaric , when he received the letter , crushed it in his hand , and cursed the strictness of the man who had done so much for him . 
On the next day another slice was taken from the fortune of Madame Jaquêtanàpe ; and his money , with the interest , was remitted to Captain Cuttwater . 
Though those who dwell there be not angels , yet it is better to live with the Woodwards and Harry Norman , with Uncle Bat , or even with the unfortunate Charley , than with such as Alaric and Undy Scott . 
The man who is ever looking after money is fitting company only for the devils , of whom , indeed , he is already one . 
During the last few weeks a bitter estrangement had taken place between the Woodwards and the Tudors , Alaric Tudor that is and Gertrude . 
Two years had now passed since Norman had chosen to quarrel with Alaric , and during all that period the two had never spoken amicably together , though they had met on business very frequently ; on all such occasions Alaric had been imperturbed and indifferent , whereas Norman had been gloomy , and had carried a hostile brow and angry eye . 
He had loved Alaric with a close and manly love ; now he hated him with a close and , I fear I may say , a manly hatred . 
Alaric had , as he thought , answered his love by treachery ; and there was that in Norman 's heart which would not allow him to forgive one who had been a traitor to him . 
Alaric might have been forgiven , though he had taken his friend 's money , distanced him in his office , though he had committed against him all offences which one friend can commit against another , all but this . 
He had confided his love to Alaric , and Alaric had robbed him of his love , and wounded both his pride and his shame . 
Among Alaric 's heavy offences this was by no means , we think , the heaviest . 
There may , indeed , be those who think he committed no offence at all , seeing that Gertrude would never have married Norman . 
Alaric , when summoned to assist his friend to secure a rich treasure , had filched it himself . 
He now looked at all Alaric 's doings through a different glass than that which he had used when Alaric had been dear to him . 
He saw , or thought that he saw , that his successful rival was false , ambitious , treacherous , and dishonest ; he made no excuses for him , gave him no credit for his industry , accorded no admiration to his talent . 
He never spoke ill of Alaric Tudor to others , but he fed his own heart with speaking and thinking ill of him to himself . 
Of Gertrude he thought very differently . 
He had taught himself to disconnect her from the treachery of her husband -- or rather her memory ; for , from the day on which he had learnt that she was engaged to Alaric , he had never seen her . 
He still loved the remembrance of her . 
In his solitary walks with Mrs. Woodward he would still speak of her as he might of one in some distant clime , for whose welfare he was deeply interested . 
He had seen and caressed her baby at Hampton . 
Had Alaric been called to his long account , it would have been his dearest wish to have become at some future time the husband of his widow . 
To all these feelings on Norman 's part Alaric was very indifferent ; but their existence operated as a drawback on his wife 's comfort , and , to a certain degree , on his own . 
Norman , on the other hand , did absent himself when it was understood that Alaric and Gertrude were coming ; and thus the Woodwards kept up their intercourse with both . 
Alaric thought it most probable that Norman would marry one of the younger sisters , and he knew that family quarrels are uncomfortable and injudicious . 
And then she remembered what he was , what was the manner of his life , what his character ; how different he was from Alaric or Harry Norman ; she remembered this , and knew that her love was an unhappy passion . 
Why was he not like Alaric or Norman , so that she might make him welcome to her daughter 's heart ! 
Katie had a well-worn , well-known little work-box , which , in years now long past , had been given to her either by Alaric or Harry . 
Linda knew she was not Norman 's first love , and requited Norman , of course , by telling him something , not much , of Alaric 's falseness to her . 
He would never , he said , be the means of separating two sisters ; she and Gertrude might have such intercourse together as their circumstances might render possible ; but it was quite out of the question that either he , Harry Norman , or his wife should ever again associate with Alaric Tudor . 
`` Ah , Mr. Tudor , and how be you ; a sight of you is good for sore eyes , '' said she of the sausages , rising , with some difficulty , from her chair , and grasping Charley 's hand with all the pleasant cordiality of old friendship . 
`` Them as wills not , when they may , When they wills they shall have nay ; '' said a sarcastic rival bar-maid from a neighbouring public , to whom all Norah 's wrongs and all Mr. Tudor 's false promises were fully known . 
`` Step up to the landing , Mr. Tudor , '' said she ; and Charley stepped up . 
`` Come in here , Mr. Tudor -- you wo n't mind my bed-room for once , '' and Charley followed her in , not minding her bed-room . 
`` Of course you know what has happened , Mr. Tudor ? '' 
`` She 's been and done it now , Mr. Tudor , and no mistake ; and it 's better so , a 'n' t it ? 
`` And now , Mr. Tudor , come down , and drink a glass to their healths , and wish 'em both well , and do n't mind what them women says to you . 
In the meantime another winter and another spring had passed over Alaric 's head , and now the full tide of the London season found him still rising , and receiving every day more of the world 's homage . 
Sir Gregory Hardlines had had every reason to praise his own judgment in selecting Mr. Tudor for the vacant seat among the Magi . 
Alaric was all that was conciliatory and amiable in a colleague . 
This all went on delightfully for a while ; but on one morning , early in May , Alaric somewhat disturbed the equanimity of his chief by communicating to him his intention of becoming a candidate for the representation of the borough of Strathbogy , at the next general election which was to take place very shortly after the close of the session . 
Sir Gregory was dumfounded and expressed himself as incapable of believing that Tudor really meant to throw up 1,200 l. a year on the mere speculation of its being possible that he should get into Parliament . 
For what earthly reason should Alaric again be going to the bottom of the ladder , seeing that he had already attained a rung of such very respectable altitude ! 
Alaric said to himself , `` Excelsior ! '' 
Alaric replied that the constitution had been put upon to as great an extent before this , and had survived . 
Alaric rejoined that something of the same kind had been done at the Poor Law Board . 
Alaric declared that he was perfectly willing to give way if Sir Gregory would go into the House himself . 
The ice was thus broken , and Alaric was quite contented with the part which he had taken in the conversation . 
With his own official prospects , in spite of the hazardous step which he now meditated , he was quite contented . 
He had an idea that in the public service of the Government , as well as in all other services , men who were known to be worth their wages would find employment . 
He was worth his wages . 
With his official career Alaric was , as we have said , well contented ; in his stock-jobbing line of business he also had had moments of great exaltation , and some moments of considerable depression . 
-- to enable Alaric and Undy to continue their speculations . 
Of this Undy was chairman , and Alaric was a director , and at the present moment they looked for ample fortune , or what would nearly be ample ruin , to the decision of a committee of the House of Commons which was about to sit with the view of making inquiry as to the necessity of the bridge in question . 
It may easily be conceived how high were now the hopes both of Undy Scott and Alaric Tudor . 
-- Draw him , bull dog ! 
-- Bite him , badger ! 
Each has his friends , and the interest of the moment is intense . 
He has been doing as it was appointed for him to do , poor badger , in that hole of his . 
the bull-dog returns minus an ear , with an eye hanging loose , his nether lip torn off , and one paw bit through and through . 
Limping , dejected , beaten , glaring fearfully from his one remaining eye , the dog comes out ; and the badger within rolls himself up with affected case , hiding his bloody wounds from the public eye . 
The badger when drawn has to take his place outside the hole and fight again for the home of his love ; while the victorious bull-dog assumes a state of badgerdom , dons the skin of his enemy , and in his turn submits to be baited . 
Sir Gregory Hardlines had been somewhat startled by Alaric 's announcement of his parliamentary intentions . 
It not unnaturally occurred to that great man that should Mr. Tudor succeed at Strathbogy , and should he also succeed in being allowed to hold his office and seat together , he , Tudor , would very soon become first fiddle at the Civil Service Examination Board . 
And when Sir Gregory came to look into it , he hardly knew whether those bugbears with which he had tried to frighten Tudor were good serviceable bugbears , such as would stand the strain of such a man 's logic and reason . 
Would his doing so be subversive of the constitution ? 
Why should he fight Tudor 's battles for him , or put his own head into the lion 's mouth ? 
After Alaric left him he thought over the matter coolly with himself , and resolved that he would employ all the force of his eloquence -- and how great was that ? 
-- and all the weight of his own authority -- and how overpowering was that ? 
-- in inducing his junior colleague to abandon his mad ambition . 
And Alaric thought over the matter coolly also . 
He looked at it till the bugbears shrank into utter insignificance ; till they became no more than forms of shreds and patches put up to frighten birds out of cherry-orchards . 
Sir Gregory resolved in his fear that he would not speak to the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the matter ; Alaric , on the other hand , in his audacity , resolved that he would do so . 
Things had changed much with both of them since Sir Gregory had been chief clerk and Alaric Tudor junior clerk at the Weights and Measures ; much with both of them , but by far the most wonderfully with Alaric . 
He was still a young man , hardly yet thirty , but he had already got greatly beyond the top of his own office , and was already talked of as a name of note in bureaucratic circles . 
He had achieved all this already ; and now , with unappeasable ambition , he was striving to push Sir Gregory from his throne ! 
But Alaric 's soliloquy was very different . 
`` I have got so high , '' said Alaric , `` by my own labour , by my own skill and tact ; and why should I stop here ? 
There was no word in all this of gratitude ; there was no thought in Alaric 's mind that it behoved him to be grateful to Sir Gregory . 
Such was Alaric 's theory of life . 
But not the less would he have expected gratitude from those whom he might serve . 
And so they met , and discussed Alaric 's little proposition . 
`` I am very much obliged to you , '' said Alaric . 
`` I need hardly tell you , Tudor , how anxious I am to further your advancement . 
He endeavoured to assume some of that authority with which he had erst cowed the young Tudor at the Weights and Measures , and as he finished his speech he assumed a profound look which ought to have been very convincing . 
He then rubbed his hands over each other , and leaned back in his arm-chair to watch the effects of his spoken wisdom . 
But the time was gone by with Alaric when such tricks of legerdemain were convincing to him . 
A grave brow , compressed lips , and fixed eyes , had no longer much effect upon him . 
He had a point to gain , and he was thinking of that and not of Sir Gregory 's grimaces . 
`` I am much obliged to you for that , at any rate , '' said Alaric . 
`` By no means , '' said Alaric ; `` I am a poor man , depending altogether on my own exertions for an income . 
`` But I call a seat in Parliament a chance , '' said Alaric ; `` the best chance that a man circumstanced as I am can possibly have . 
`` Yes , Mr. Tudor , that is my opinion . 
Alaric looked very grave , but not a whit angry . 
`` I would give it you , Mr. Tudor , if I could consistently with my duty as a public servant ; but as I can not , I am sure you will not ask for it . '' 
Come , Tudor , think of it that way . 
`` It is considered a high position in this country , that of a member of Parliament , '' said Alaric . 
But , my dear Tudor , you are in none of these positions . 
Abandon the idea , my dear Tudor ; pray abandon it . 
Not a word that he said had the slightest effect on Alaric . 
How was it possible that his words should have any effect , seeing that Alaric was convinced that Sir Gregory was pleading for his own advantage , and not for that of his listener . 
Alaric did listen . 
He received all that Sir Gregory said with the most profound attention ; schooled his face into a look of the most polite deference , and then , with his most cruel tone , informed Sir Gregory that his mind was quite made up , that he did intend to submit himself to the electors of Strathbogy . 
`` Who will to Cupar maun to Cupar , '' said Sir Gregory ; `` I can only say , Mr. Tudor , that I am very sorry for you , and very sorry for your wife , very sorry , very sorry indeed . '' 
`` And who will to Strathbogy maun to Strathbogy , '' said Alaric laughing ; there is certainly an air of truth about the proverb as applied to myself just at present . 
`` Then I have nothing more to say , Mr. Tudor . '' 
`` Of course I shall try to save my place , '' continued Alaric . 
Alaric was not in the least influenced by anything that Sir Gregory had said to him ; he had made up his mind , and was determined to be turned from it by no arguments that his colleague could use ; but nevertheless he could not but be meditative , as , walking home across the parks , he thought of his wife and child . 
Moreover , if Alaric were to push for the money and make himself disagreeable , where would be his seat for Strathbogy ? 
And was it not the fact that this loan of his ward 's money was the price he had paid for the use of the Gaberlunzie interest ? 
Could he reasonably be expected to enjoy the property he had purchased , if he insisted on withdrawing the purchase-money ? 
No ; he must repay the whole of the 10,000 l. himself , and then make the best he could of Undy 's debt to him . 
They were still very dear friends , of course ; but they did not live in each other 's arms as Alaric had intended they should do . 
He returned home after his interview with Sir Gregory , and found his wife in the drawing-room with her child . 
He usually went down from his office to his club , and she was therefore the more ready to welcome him for having broken through his habit on the present occasion . 
She left her infant sprawling on the floor , and came up to greet him with a kiss . 
`` Ger '' -- said he , putting his arm round her and embracing her -- `` I have come home to consult you on business ; '' and then he seated himself on the sofa taking her with him , still in his arms . 
There was but little doubt that she would consent to anything which he could propose to her after such a fashion , in such a guise as this ; that he knew full well . 
`` Yes , Ger ; but this is a very important matter ; '' and then he looked grave , but managed at the same time to look happy and contented . 
`` What is best for you , must be best for me ; '' said Gertrude , kissing his forehead . 
Then he explained to her what had passed between himself and Sir Gregory , and what his own ideas were as regarded the borough of Strathbogy . 
At the end of that time the Chancellor of the Exchequer sent for Alaric , and they had a second interview . 
`` Well , Mr. Tudor , '' said the great man , `` this is a matter of very considerable importance , and one on which I am not even yet prepared to give you a positive answer . '' 
This was very good news for Alaric . 
They doubted , and Alaric was well aware that their doubt was as good as certainty to him . 
And if -- or -- or -- made a row about it in the House and complained , why in that case also Mr. Tudor must take the consequences . 
Alaric assured the great man that he was not so unreasonable as to expect a positive answer . 
Positive answers , as he well knew , were not often forthcoming among official men ; official men , as he had already learnt , prefer to do their business by answers which are not positive . 
He himself had become averse to positive answers since he had become a commissioner , and was quite prepared to dispense with them in the parliamentary career which he hoped that he was now about to commence . 
This much , however , was quite clear , that he might offer himself as a candidate to the electors of Strathbogy without resigning ; and that Sir Gregory 's hostile remonstrance on the subject , should he choose to make one , would not be received as absolute law by the greater powers . 
Accordingly as Alaric was elated Sir Gregory was depressed . 
Alaric , however , showed no triumph . 
He was more submissive , more gracious than ever to his chief . 
It was only to himself that he muttered `` Excelsior ! '' 
Now , then , was the time for Alaric to sell and get out of his difficulties if ever he could do so . 
Shares which he had bought for 30s . 
He was strongly of opinion that they would fall again , and that the final result of the committee would leave them of a less value than their original purchase-money , and probably altogether valueless . 
He could not , however , act in the matter without consulting Undy , so closely linked were they in the speculation ; and even at the present price his own shares would not enable him to pay back the full amount of what he had taken . 
The joint property of the two was , however , at its present market price worth 12,000 l. -- 10,000 l. would make him a free man . 
He was perfectly willing to let Undy have the full use of the difference in amount ; nay , he was ready enough to give it to him altogether , if by so doing he could place the whole of his ward 's money once more in safety . 
They met at the door of the committee-room when Mr. Nogo had just put his 999th question to the adverse witness ; and as the summons to prayers prevented the 1000th being proceeded with at that moment , Undy and Alaric sauntered back along the passages , and then walking up and down the immense space of Westminster Hall , said each to the other what he had to say on the matter mooted between them . 
`` Nothing that he can say , '' said Undy , `` will tell upon the share-market . 
The stock is rising from hour to hour ; and Piles himself told me that he knew from sure intelligence that the Chancellor of the Exchequer is prepared to give way , whatever Vigil may say to the contrary . 
`` Then in God 's name let them buy ours , '' said Alaric . 
`` Indeed I do , and I intend to do so ; just listen to me , Undy -- '' `` I tell you fairly , Tudor , I will not sell a share ; what you may choose to do with your own I can not say . 
`` Listen to me , Undy , '' said Alaric . 
`` I could be as sanguine as you are , and as bold , '' said Alaric , `` were I venturing with my own money . '' 
There was a bitter truth in this which made Alaric 's heart sink low within his breast . 
Alaric felt very desirous of keeping Undy in a good humour . 
He wished , if possible , to persuade him rather than to drive him ; to coax him into repaying this money , and not absolutely to demand the repayment . 
`` Come , '' said he , `` what do you call a good thing , yourself ? '' 
A man may be fishing a long time , Tudor , in these waters , before he gets such a haul as this ; but he must be a great fool to let go his net when he does get it . '' 
They both then remained silent for a time , for each was doubtful how best to put forward the view which he himself wished to urge . 
Their projects were diametrically different , and yet neither could carry his own without the assistance of the other . 
`` Wait a moment , Undy , '' said Alaric ; `` listen to me for one moment . 
Alaric was nearly beside himself ; but he still felt that he should have no chance of carrying his point if he lost his temper . 
said Alaric , looking at him with withering scorn . 
`` Well , so be it , '' said Alaric ; `` but the fact is , the money has been withdrawn . '' 
`` I am not now going to argue whether the fault has been most mine or yours , '' continued Alaric . 
`` I wish at any rate you would let me explain myself , '' said Alaric , who felt that his patience was fast going , and who could hardly resist the temptation of seizing his companion by the throat , and punishing him on the spot for his iniquity . 
Alaric , under these circumstances , found it not very easy to put what he had to say into any words that his companion would admit . 
He fully intended at some future day to thrust Scott 's innocence down his throat , and tell him that he was not only a thief , but a mean , lying , beggarly thief . 
`` I can sell my shares in the Limehouse bridge , '' continued Alaric , `` for 6000l. , and I am prepared to do so . '' 
`` I am ready to sacrifice that and more than that , '' said Alaric . 
Whether it was Alaric 's extreme simplicity in making it , or his own good luck in receiving it , or whether by any possible chance some all but dormant remnant of feeling within his heart was touched , we will not pretend to say . 
But for a while he walked on silent , as though wavering in his resolution , and looking as if he wished to be somewhat more civil , somewhat less of the bully , than he had been . 
There was no one else to whom Alaric could dare to open his heart on this subject of his ward 's fortune ; there was none other but this ally of his to whom he could confide , whom he could consult . 
Unpromising , therefore , though Undy was as a confederate , Alaric , when he thought he saw this change in his manner , poured forth at once the full tide of his feelings . 
`` Undy , '' said he , `` pray bear with me awhile . 
`` I am miserable about it , '' said Alaric . 
He was somewhat gravelled for an answer to Alaric 's earnest supplication , and therefore made none till the request was repeated . 
`` In God 's name let me have this money , '' repeated Alaric . 
`` My dear Tudor , '' said he , `` your stomach is out of order . 
Here was an answer for a man to get to the most earnest appeal which he could make ! 
Here was comfort for a wretch suffering from fear , remorse , and shame , as Alaric was suffering . 
He had spoken of his feelings and his heart ; but these were regions quite out of Undy Scott 's cognizance . 
What was Alaric to say ? 
What could he say to a man who at such a crisis could talk to him of blue pills ? 
For a while he said nothing ; but the form of his face changed , a darkness came over his brow which Scott had never before seen there , the colour flew from his face , his eyes sparkled , and a strange appearance of resolute defiance showed itself round his mouth . 
`` You refuse then , '' said Alaric , still keeping hold of Undy 's coat . 
Alaric took his hand away . 
`` Well , '' said he , `` now tell me what is to hinder you from letting me have the money you owe me ? '' 
Alaric , when he heard these words , could hardly prevent himself from falling in the middle of the hall . 
All his hopes were then over ; he had no chance of shaking this intolerable burden from his shoulders ; he had taken the woman 's money , this money which had been intrusted to his honour and safe keeping , and thrown it into a bottomless gulf . 
`` And now listen to me , '' said Undy , looking at his watch . 
`` I think you 'll find that it is not all nonsense , '' said Alaric . 
said Alaric . 
Alaric was so astonished at this monstrous request , coming as it did after such a conversation , that he did not well know how to take it . 
Was Undy mad , or was he in joke ? 
What man in his senses would think of lending six or seven hundred pounds to Val Scott ! 
` But , ' said he , ` you can get Tudor to do it . ' 
He was playing pool at the time , at the club ; but he came back after his stroke , and whispered to me -- ` You and Tudor , between you , must let me have 250 of those shares , and then it 'll be all right . ' 
Alaric , when he heard this , looked up into his companion 's face to see whether he was talking to the Evil one himself . 
Oh , what a net of ruin was closing round him ! 
-- How inextricable were the toils into which he had fallen ! 
repeated Alaric , almost lost in the consideration of his own misery . 
And , Tudor , you may be sure of this , you know ; you will be quite safe with him . 
Do this for him , and you 'll hear no more about it . 
You may be quite sure that he 'll ask for nothing further , and that he 'll never say a word to annoy you . 
He 's devilish honourable is Val ; no man can be more so ; though , perhaps , you would n't think it . '' 
`` Devilish honourable , '' said Alaric . 
-- Here Alaric turned as pale as a spectre . 
And then Alaric was left alone . 
He had never hitherto realized the true facts of the position in which he had placed himself ; but now he did so . 
He was in the hands of these men , these miscreants , these devils ; he was completely at their mercy , and he already felt that they were as devoid of mercy as they were of justice . 
A cold sweat broke out all over him , and he continued walking up and down the hall , ignorant as to where he was , and what he was doing , almost thoughtless , stunned as it were by his misery , and the conviction that he was a ruined man . 
He had remained there an hour after Undy had left him , before he roused himself sufficiently to leave the hall and think of returning home . 
Then there would be nothing for Alaric but confession and ruin . 
And how could he believe what Undy Scott had told him ? 
`` Are you ill , Alaric ? '' 
Alaric ran up to prepare for dinner , and his wife followed him . 
Alaric , '' said she , `` you are so pale , what is the matter ? 
and she put her arm through his , took hold of his hand and looked up into his face . 
nothing is the matter , a man ca n't always be grinning ; '' and he gently shook her off , and walked through their bed-room to his own dressing-room . 
Having entered it he shut the door , and then sitting down bowed his head upon a small table and buried it in his hands . 
All the world seemed to go round and round with him ; he was giddy , and felt that he could not stand . 
Gertrude paused a moment in the bed-room to consider , and then followed him . 
said he , as soon as he heard the handle turn -- `` do leave me alone for one moment . 
`` Oh , Alaric , I see you are ill , '' said she . 
`` For God 's sake do not send me from you '' -- and coming into the room she knelt down beside his chair . 
`` I know you are suffering , Alaric ; do let me do something for you . '' 
He longed to tell her everything . 
He panted to share his sorrows with one other bosom ; to have one near him to whom he could speak openly of everything , to have one counsellor in his trouble . 
In that moment he all but resolved to disclose everything to her ; but at last he found that he could not do it . 
`` Worldly -- no -- but hellish ; '' said Alaric , `` hellish and damnable and fiendish . '' 
`` Oh , Alaric , what has he done ? '' 
`` Never mind ; I can not tell you ; he has done nothing . 
It is not that he has done anything , or can do anything to me -- but his heart -- but never mind -- I wish -- I wish I had never seen him . '' 
`` Alaric , if it be about money , tell me the worst , and I 'll bear it without a murmur . 
And so they went down to dinner , and Alaric , after taking a glass of wine , played his part almost as though he had no weight upon his soul . 
After dinner he drank freely , and as he drank his courage rose . 
`` Why should he tell her , '' he said to himself as he went to bed . 
On the next morning Alaric went to his office without speaking further as to the trouble on his mind . 
He had resolved during the night that it would be useless for him to make his wife unhappy and to lower himself in her estimation , if by any means this secret could be kept from her , and from the world . 
There were still chances which might befriend him ; those shares , which he now so hated , might possibly rise in value till they would enable him to pay all that he owed ; and it was possible also , in spite of what had occurred , that Undy and Val might both hold their tongues ; nay , it was quite on the cards that Val knew nothing about it , and that all that had been said yesterday was a knavish scheme of Undy 's for raising money . 
She knew Alaric 's deep anxiety to be in Parliament , and how greatly disappointed he would be at any interruption to his projects ; and she conceived that the promises made to him were to be broken , and that the borough interest of the Scotts was to be given to another . 
M. Jaquêtanàpe had since his marriage made himself very agreeable to his honourable mother-in-law , so much so that he now occupied the place in her good graces which Undy had formerly filled , and which after Undy 's reign had fallen to Alaric 's lot . 
`` And so , '' said Mrs. Val , `` Mr. Tudor is thinking of resigning his place at the Civil Service Board ? 
I was told that by a gentleman who has been much longer in the service than Mr. Tudor , and who understands all its bearings . '' 
`` I do not think Mr. Tudor has quite made up his mind yet . '' 
You know the regard I have for you and Mr. Tudor . 
He too is Clementina 's trustee ; that is to say her fortune is partly consigned to his care ; so I can not but have a very great interest about him , and be very anxious that he should do well . 
`` Oh , '' said she , with a slight smile , `` Mr. Tudor will be able to take care of himself ; you will find , I hope , that there is no cause for uneasiness . '' 
`` I do hope Mr. Tudor will think of what he is doing , '' continued Mrs. Val . 
`` It is certainly most good-natured and most disinterested of my dear father-in-law , Lord Gaberlunzie , to place his borough at Mr. Tudor 's disposal . 
But , my dear , it will be a thousand pities if Mr. Tudor should be led on by his lordship 's kindness to bring about his own ruin . '' 
`` It will be a thousand pities if Mr. Tudor should be led on by his lordship 's kindness to bring about his own ruin , '' said Mrs. Val . 
`` I can assure you Mr. Tudor will manage very well for himself -- but should any misfortune happen to him he will not , you may be certain , attribute it to Lord Gaberlunzie . '' 
`` I heard my brother say that as Mr. Tudor 's office is not parliamentary but permanent , and as he has to attend from ten till four -- '' `` Alaric has not to attend from ten till four , '' said Gertrude , who could not endure the idea that her husband should be ranked with common clerks , like Fidus Neverbend . 
`` I dare say you have , '' said Gertrude ; `` Alaric always says that no experience is worth anything that is not obtained by years . '' 
`` Well , my dear , I am glad he has so much wisdom . 
But what I was going to say is this : you know how much we have at stake with Mr. Tudor -- what a very large sum of Clementina 's money lies in his hands . 
Now I really should not have consented to the arrangement had I thought it possible that Mr. Tudor would have given up his income with the idea of going into Parliament . 
`` Do you think that Mr. Tudor intends to use your daughter 's income if he loses a portion of his own ? 
Of course Mr. Tudor would n't have been chosen as trustee , if he had n't had a good income of his own ; and look here , my dear , '' -- and Mrs. Val whispered very confidentially , -- `` Mr. Tudor we all know is greatly concerned in this bridge that the committee is sitting about ; and he and my brother-in-law Undecimus are always dealing in shares . 
But considering all , I hope Mr. Tudor wo n't take it ill if we propose to change our trustee . '' 
`` I am very certain he will not , '' said Gertrude . 
`` It is a laborious business , and he will be glad enough to be rid of it . 
When he was asked to accept it , he thought it would be ill-natured to refuse ; I am certain , however , he will be very glad to give up the work to any other person who may be appointed . 
I will be sure to tell him this evening what you have said . '' 
`` I shall see him myself before long . '' 
Of course you will now take steps to relieve him as soon as possible . '' 
`` Alaric will so understand it I am quite sure ; at any rate I will tell him what you have said . 
who has dared to suspect him of anything not honest or upright ? '' 
Do come , and bring Mr. Tudor with you . '' 
`` As he has not to attend from ten till four , he could come and take lessons too , '' said Lactimel , who now that she was no longer a hanger on of Gertrude 's , could afford to have her little revenge . 
Alaric returned from his office worn and almost as wretched as he had been on the day before . 
He had spent a miserable day . 
`` No , not finally , '' said Alaric , `` but I think I shall do so . '' 
`` Then I must tell you , Tudor , '' said Sir Gregory , speaking more in sorrow than in anger , `` that you will not have my countenance . 
Alaric prepared to make some petulant answer , but Sir Gregory , in the mean time , left the room . 
Alaric felt that he was playing brag , and that his only game was to brag it out . 
He might lose , nay , probably would lose ; but still it was on the cards for him to win . 
Men who play for high stakes , who lead forlorn hopes , who risk all that they may gain much , have ever to undergo , in some point of their career , such torture as that which he now suffered . 
So , at least , he said to himself . 
Such might still be his fate , if only he could be true to himself . 
He therefore made no recantation to Sir Gregory , ate no humble pie , descended in no degree from his high position -- he sat through the day working hard for the service to which he belonged , determined that at any rate no fault should be found with him in that respect ; that no loss of energy should be discovered . 
`` I will never see her again , Alaric ! 
suspect him , her husband , the choice of her heart , her Alaric , the human god whom she worshipped ! 
suspect him of robbery , her lord , her heart , her soul , the strong staff on which she leaned so securely , with such true feminine confidence . 
Suspect him of common vile dishonesty ! 
-- `` You will never ask me to see her again ; will you , Alaric ? '' 
What was he to say to her ? 
how was he to bear this ? 
His heart yearned to tell her all ; he longed for the luxury of having one bosom to whom he could entrust his misery , his slight remaining hope . 
But how could he himself , at one blow , by one word , destroy the high and polished shaft on which she whom he loved had placed him . 
He could not do it . 
He would suffer by himself ; hope by himself , cease to hope by himself , and endure all , till either his sufferings or his hopes should be over . 
He had to pretend that he was indignant at Mrs. Val 's interference ; he had to counterfeit the feelings of outraged honour , which was so natural to Gertrude . 
This he failed to do well . 
Had he been truly honest ; had that woman 's suspicion really done him injustice , he would have received his wife 's tidings with grave displeasure , and have simply resolved to acquit himself as soon as possible of the disagreeable trust which had been reposed in him . 
But such was not now his conduct . 
He contented himself by calling Mrs. Val names , and pretended to laugh at her displeasure . 
`` I will think about it , '' said he . 
`` Oh , Alaric , I do so wish you had nothing to do with these Scotts ! '' 
`` So do I , '' said he , bitterly ; `` I hate them -- but , Gertrude , do n't talk about them now ; my head aches , and I am tired . '' 
He sat at home the whole evening ; and though he was by no means gay , and hardly affectionate in his demeanour to her , yet she could not but feel that some good effect had sprung from his recent dislike to the Scotts since it kept him at home with her . 
Lately he had generally spent his evenings at his club . 
She longed to speak to him of his future career , of his proposed seat in Parliament , of his office-work ; but he gave her no encouragement to speak of such things , and as he pleaded that he was ill she left him in quiet on his sofa . 
On the next morning he again went to his office , and in the course of the morning a note was brought to him from Undy . 
Yours ever , U. S. To this he replied by making an appointment to meet Undy before dinner . 
He resolved as firmly as ever that he would not give a share to Captain Val , and he resolved that he would brazen it out with Undy . 
Alaric had named his own office because he thought that he would there , be the most sure of having quiet possession of an undisturbed room ; had he appointed the meeting at his club , some one might have overheard their dispute . 
At the time fixed Undy came , and was shown by the sole remaining messenger into Alaric 's private room . 
Undy smiled good-humouredly , as he always did ; and Alaric maintained his usual composed and uncommunicative look . 
`` I am glad you have come , '' said Alaric , `` because I want to speak to you with some earnestness . '' 
I tell you , Tudor , you are in the wrong box . 
Alaric felt that he was covered with cold perspiration . 
His courage did not fail him ; he would willingly have taken Undy by the throat could his doing so have done himself or his cause any good ; but he felt that he was nearly overset by the cool deep villany of his companion . 
`` I have treated the girl badly , -- very badly , '' he said , after a pause ; `` whether or no you have done so too I leave to your own conscience , if you have a conscience . 
`` Then tell your brother , '' said Alaric , now losing all control over his temper -- `` tell your brother , if indeed he have any part in this villany , tell your brother that if it were to save me from the gallows , he should not have a shilling . 
`` If you will not now do what I ask you , I may as well go , and you may take the consequences ; '' and he lifted his hat as though preparing to take his leave . 
`` But you shall hear me , '' said Alaric , rising quickly from his seat and standing between Undy and the door . 
`` I have much to answer for , '' continued Alaric , `` but I would not have your sin on my soul , I would not be as black as you are , though by being so , I could save myself with certainty from all earthly punishment . '' 
As he finished , the messenger opened the door . 
`` Show Mr. Scott out , '' said Alaric . 
`` You will probably hear from Mrs. Val and her daughter to-morrow , '' and so saying , he walked jauntily along the passage , and went jauntily to his dinner at his club . 
It was part of his philosophy that nothing should disturb the even tenor of his way , or interfere with his animal comforts . 
He was at the present moment over head and ears in debt ; he was playing a game , which , in all human probability , would end in his ruin ; the ground was sinking beneath his feet on every side ; and yet he thoroughly enjoyed his dinner . 
Alaric could not make such use of his philosophy . 
Not on the next day , or on the next , did Alaric hear from Mrs. Val , but on the following Monday he got a note from her begging him to call in Ebury-street . 
She underscored every line of it once or twice , and added , in a postscript , that he would , she was sure , at once acknowledge the NECESSITY of her request , as she wished to communicate with him on the subject of her DAUGHTER 'S FORTUNE . 
Alaric , immediately sent an answer to her by a messenger . 
`` My dear Mrs. Scott , '' said he , `` I am very sorry that an engagement prevents my going to you this evening , but , as I judge by your letter , and by what I have heard from Gertrude , that you are anxious about this trust arrangement , I will call at ten to-morrow morning on my way to the office . '' 
Having written and despatched this , he sat for an hour leaning with his elbows on the table and his hands clasped , looking with apparent earnestness at the rows of books which stood inverted before him , trying to make up his mind as to what step he should now take . 
Not that he sat an hour undisturbed . 
But on this morning Alaric would see no one ; to every such intruder he sent a reply that he was too deeply engaged at the present moment to see any one . 
After one he would be at liberty , & c. & c. And so he sat and looked at the books ; but he could in nowise make up his mind . 
He could in nowise bring himself even to try to make up his mind -- that is to make any true effort towards doing so . 
His thoughts would run off from him , not into the happy outer-world , but into a multitude of noisy , unpleasant paths , all intimately connected with his present misery , but none of which led him at all towards the conclusions at which he would fain arrive . 
He kept on reflecting , what Sir Gregory would think when he heard of it ; what all those clerks would say at the Weights and Measures , among whom he had held his head so high ; what shouts there would be among the navvies and other low pariahs of the service ; how Harry Norman would exult ; -- but he did not yet know Harry Norman ; -- how the Woodwards would weep , how Gertrude -- and then as he thought of that he bowed his head , for he could no longer endure the open light of day . 
Alaric went into the city , and found that the shares were still rising . 
Alaric found that he could at once realize 7500l . 
Were he to do this , there would be at any rate seven eighths of his ward 's fortune secure . 
Might he not , in such case , calculate that even Mrs. Val 's heart would be softened , and that time would be allowed him to make up the small remainder ? 
Oh , but in such case he must tell Mrs. Val ; and could he calculate on her forbearance ? 
Might he not calculate with much more certainty on her love of triumphing ? 
would he not be her slave if she had the keeping of his secret ? 
And why should he run so terrible a risk of destroying himself ? 
Why should he confide in Mrs. Val , and deprive himself of the power of ever holding up his head again , when , possibly , he might still run out his course with full sails , and bring his vessel into port , giving no knowledge to the world of the perilous state in which she had been thus ploughing the deep ? 
He need not at any rate tell everything to Mrs. Val , at his coming visit on the morrow . 
He consulted his broker with his easiest air of common concern as to his money ; and the broker gave him a dubious opinion . 
Alaric knew that the man was right ; they were ticklish stock ; but nevertheless he made up his mind to hold on a little longer . 
He then got into another cab and went back to his office ; and as he went he began to bethink himself to whom of all his friends he might apply for such a loan as would enable him to make up this sum of money , if he sold his shares on the morrow . 
Captain Cuttwater was good for 1000l. , but he knew that he could not get more from him . 
It would be bad borrowing , he thought , from Sir Gregory . 
Intimate as he had been with that great man , he knew nothing of his money concerns ; but he had always heard that Sir Gregory was a close man . 
He , he Alaric Tudor , he , whose credit had stood , did stand , so high , did not know where to borrow , how to raise a thousand pounds ; and yet he felt that had he not wanted it so sorely , he could have gotten it easily . 
He returned to his office and set himself hard to work . 
His task there was not an easy one ; he , the remodeller of others , could not be allowed to flag himself . 
The really hard work of the office fell chiefly on his shoulders . 
On Alaric rested the harder work of the office , the management of little details , the answering of big men 's letters , the quieting of all difficulties , and such like ; -- and like other new brooms he had gone to it with a will . 
He , resolving to set a good example , had worked in season and out of season ; and now he felt , when men 's eyes were likely to be upon him , that it behoved him more than ever to be true to himself . 
He was in a bad state for work when he got back to the office on that day . 
He was flurried , ill at ease , wretched , all but distracted ; nevertheless he went rigidly to it , and remained there till late in the evening . 
He was a man generally blessed with excellent health ; but now he suddenly found himself ill , and all but unable to accomplish the task which he had prescribed to himself . 
His head was heavy and his eyes weak , and he could not bring himself to think of the papers which lay before him . 
Then at last he went home , and had another sad and solitary walk across the parks , during which he vainly tried to rally himself again and collect his energies for the work which he had to do . 
It was in such emergencies as this , that he knew that it most behoved a man to fall back upon what manliness there might be within him ; now was the time for him to be true to himself ; he had often felt proud of his own energy of purpose ; and now was the opportunity for him to use such energy , if his pride in this respect had not been all in vain . 
Alaric fancied that men stared at him , and sat apart by himself , afraid to stand up among talking circles , or to put himself forward as it was his wont to do . 
He himself avoided other men , and then felt that others were avoiding him . 
He took up one evening paper after another , pretending to read them , but hardly noticing a word that came beneath his eye ; at last , however , a name struck him which riveted his attention , and he read the following paragraph , which was among many others , containing information as to the coming elections . 
Alaric 's first emotion was one of anger at the whole Scott tribe , and his first resolve was to go down to Strathbogy and beat that inanimate fool Captain Val on his own ground ; but he was not long in reflecting that , under his present circumstances , it would be madness in him to bring his name prominently forward in any quarrel with the Scott family . 
`` I requested you to call , Mr. Tudor , '' said Mrs. Val , opening her tale in a most ceremonious manner , `` because we all think it necessary to know somewhat more than has yet been told to us of the manner in which my daughter 's money has been invested . '' 
`` I thought you knew , Mrs. Scott , '' said Alaric , `` that your daughter 's money is in the funds . '' 
asked Alaric . 
`` And , therefore , Mr. Tudor , you must n't be surprised that we should ask you this question . '' 
The amiable Victoire , to tell the truth , was still quite satisfied to leave his wife 's income in Alaric 's hands , and would not have been at all satisfied to remove it to the hands of his respected step-papa-in-law , or even his admired mama-in-law . 
`` When I undertook this trust , '' said Alaric , `` which I did with considerable hesitation , I certainly did not expect to be subjected to any such cross-examination as this . 
You , Mrs. Scott , have of course a right to look after your daughter 's interests , as has M. Jaquêtanàpe to look after those of his wife ; but I will not acknowledge that Captain Scott has any such right whatsoever , nor can I think that his conduct in this matter is disinterested '' -- and has he spoke he looked at Captain Val , but he might just as well have looked at the door ; Captain Val only wiped his mustache with his finger once more . 
I shall , however , on Saturday next , be ready to give up my trust to any other person who may be legally appointed to receive it , and will then produce all the property that has been entrusted to my keeping ; '' and so saying , Alaric got up and took his hat as though to depart . 
`` And do you mean to say , Mr. Tudor , that you will not answer my question ? '' 
`` I mean to say , most positively , that I will answer no questions , '' said Alaric . 
shouted Alaric ; walking across the room , till he closely confronted the captain . 
Victoire took hold of the back of a chair , as though he thought it well that he should be armed in the general battle that was to ensue ; and Alaric , without further speech , walked out of the room , and went away to his office . 
`` I think I have , '' said Alaric ; `` considering all things , I believe it will be the best for me to do so . '' 
`` Not a doubt of it , '' said Sir Gregory -- `` not a doubt of it , my dear fellow ; '' and then Sir Gregory began to evince by the cordiality of his official confidence , that he had fully taken Alaric back into his good graces . 
It was nothing to him that Strathbogy had given up Alaric instead of Alaric giving up Strathbogy . 
He was sufficiently pleased at knowing that the danger of his being supplanted by his own junior was over . 
And then Alaric again went into the weary city , again made inquiries about his shares , and again returned to his office , and thence to his home . 
But on his return to his office , he found lying on his table a note in Undy 's handwriting , but not signed , in which he was informed that things would yet be well , if the required shares should be forthcoming on the following day . 
He crumpled the note tight in his hand , and was about to fling it among the waste paper , but in a moment he thought better of it , and smoothing the paper straight , he folded it , and laid it carefully on his desk . 
That day , on his visit into the city , he had found that the bridge shares had fallen to less than the value of their original purchase-money ; and that evening he told Gertrude everything . 
Alaric had been arrested -- Alaric , their own Gertrude 's own husband , their son-in-law and brother-in-law , the proud , the high , the successful , the towering man of the world , Alaric had been arrested , and was to be tried for embezzling the money of his ward . 
It was not surprising that no tidings of Alaric 's growing quarrel with the Scotts should have reached the Hampton party . 
Nor did Norman hear much of Alaric 's London doings . 
It was known that Alaric was a great commissioner , with 1200l . 
a year , and one of the Magi of the Civil Service ; it was known also that he was talked of as the future member of Parliament for Strathbogy ; and that was all that was known of him at Hampton , when Harry came down one evening with news that was indeed unexpected . 
Though the great men at the Weights were jealous of Alaric , they were not the less proud of him . 
They had watched him rise with a certain amount of displeasure , and yet they had no inconsiderable gratification in boasting that two of the Magi , the two working Magi of the Civil Service , had been produced by their own establishment . 
When therefore tidings reached them that Tudor had been summoned in a friendly way to Bow Street , that he had there passed a whole morning , and that the inquiry had ended in his temporary suspension from his official duties , and in his having to provide two bailsmen , each for 1000l. , as security that he would on a certain day be forthcoming to stand his trial at the Old Bailey for defrauding his ward , -- when I say these tidings were carried from room to room at the Weights and Measures , the feelings of surprise were equalled by those of shame and disappointment . 
It was not in his heart to be gratified at the downfall of an old friend , even though that old friend had so deeply injured him ; but more than this , -- let Alaric be ever so much his enemy , he was still to be his brother-in-law ; he was Mrs. Woodward 's son-in-law ; he was Gertrude 's husband . 
Alaric was then there , and the magistrates had decided on requiring bail ; he had , in fact , been committed . 
It was some minutes before he could decide what he should do under such circumstances . 
It had not been his intention to go on that evening to Hampton ; but he concluded that now he had better do so . 
`` Is Alaric ill then ? 
is there anything the matter with Alaric ? '' 
`` He is not ill , '' said Norman , `` but he is in some trouble . 
First she thought that Alaric was dismissed , then that he was dead ; was it not possible that Harry had named Alaric 's name to deceive her ? 
Has anything happened to Alaric ? '' 
`` It is Alaric , then ? '' 
is it about Alaric ? '' 
Alaric is in trouble . '' 
`` What trouble -- is he ill ? '' 
`` No -- he is not ill . 
`` Has he been arrested ? '' 
Harry is so good , he would do anything , even for Alaric , when he is in trouble . '' 
`` He will do everything for him that he can , '' said Linda , through her tears . 
`` He has not been arrested , '' said Mrs. Woodward ; `` he is still at home ; but he is in trouble about Miss Golightly 's money -- and -- and he is to be tried . '' 
`` Harry , '' said she , `` you must go and see Alaric . '' 
On the previous evening he had spoken of Alaric without bitterness , nay , almost with affection ; of Gertrude , he had spoken with the truest brotherly love ; he had assured Mrs. Woodward that he would do all that was in his power for them ; that he would spare neither his exertions nor his purse : he had a truer idea than she had of what might probably be the facts of the case , and was prepared , by all the means at his disposal , to help his sister-in-law , if such aid would help her . 
But he had not thought of seeing Alaric . 
`` I do not think it would do any good , '' said he . 
`` There can not , I think , be very much wanting , '' said Norman , who had hardly yet realized the idea that Alaric had actually used his ward 's money for his own purposes . 
He had no idea that his own heart was still hard as the nether millstone against Alaric Tudor . 
His money he could give ; he could give also his time and mind , he could lend his best abilities to rescue his former friend and his own former love from misfortune . 
He could do this , and he thought therefore that he was forgiving ; but there was no forgiveness in such assistance . 
There was generosity in it , for he was ready to part with his money ; there was kindness of heart , for he was anxious to do good to his fellow-creatures ; but there were with these both pride and revenge . 
Alaric had outtopped him in everything , and it was sweet to Norman 's pride that his hand should be the one to raise from his sudden fall the man who had soared so high above him . 
Alaric had injured him , and what revenge is so perfect as to repay gross injuries by great benefits ? 
It was then settled that she should go up to Gertrude that morning , travelling up to town together with Norman , and that when she had learned from her daughter , or from Alaric -- if Alaric would talk to her about his concerns -- what was really the truth of the matter , she should come to Norman 's office , and tell him what it would be necessary for him to do . 
They both , as had Linda and Katie done through the night , expressed , over and over again , a conviction that Alaric could not really be guilty ; and yet both had , deep-seated in the bottom of their hearts , a fear , a dread overpowering fear , that things would not go well with that loved household that had been established with so much heartfelt pride . 
Alaric told her of his crime , and in his bitterness he owned that he was no longer worthy of her love . 
She answered by opening her arms to him with more warmth than ever , and bidding him rest his sad and weary head upon her breast . 
Gertrude spoke to herself in the same language ; she would not have changed her Alaric , branded with infamy as he now was , or soon would be , for the proudest he that carried his head high among the proud ones of the earth . 
Alaric 's committal had taken place very much in the manner in which it was told at the Weights and Measures . 
He had received a note from one of the Bow-street magistrates , begging his attendance in the private room at the police-office . 
There he had passed nearly the whole of one day , and he was also obliged to pass nearly the whole of another in the same office . 
On this second day the proceedings were not private , and he was accompanied by his own solicitor . 
It would be needless to describe how a plain case was , as usual , made obscure by the lawyers , how acts of Parliament were consulted , how the magistrate doubted , how indignant Alaric 's attorney became when it was suggested that some insignificant piece of evidence should be admitted , which , whether admitted or rejected , could have no real bearing on the case . 
It ended , however , in Alaric being committed , and giving bail to stand his trial in about a fortnight 's time ; and in his being assured by his attorney that he would most certainly be acquitted . 
That bit of paper on which he had made an entry that certain shares bought by him had been bought on behalf of his ward , would save him ; so said the attorney : to which , however , Alaric answered not much . 
Could any acutest lawyer , let him be made of never so fine an assortment of forensic indignation , now whitewash his name and set him again right before the world ? 
He , of course , communicated with Sir Gregory , and agreed to be suspended from his commissionership till the trial should be over . 
Alaric had sent for him for a purpose , and that purpose at any rate Charley could fulfil ; he went into the city to ascertain what was now the price of the Limehouse bridge shares , and returned with the news that they were falling , falling , falling . 
No one else called at Alaric 's door that day . 
None but Charley called on Alaric that day , and he found himself shut up alone with his wife and child . 
There , however , he was , and Alaric ; before he knew of his presence , had almost stumbled against him . 
said Alaric , starting back . 
`` Hallo , Tudor , what the deuce brings you here ? 
Alaric Tudor could not restrain himself . 
`` You scoundrel , '' said he , seizing Undy by the collar ; `` you utterly unmitigated scoundrel . 
You premeditating wilful villain , '' and he held Undy as though he intended to choke him . 
He let out with his right hand , and struck Alaric twice with considerable force on the side of his jaw , so that the teeth rattled in his mouth . 
But Alaric , at the moment , hardly felt it . 
`` You have brought me and mine to ruin , '' said he ; `` you have done it purposely , like a fiend . 
I have been a villain ; but such villany as yours , -- ugh -- '' and so saying , he flung his enemy from him , and Undy , tottering back , saved himself against the wall . 
In a continued personal contest between the two men , Undy would probably have had the best of it , for he would certainly have been the cooler of the two , and was also the more skilful in such warfare ; but he felt in a moment that he could gain nothing by thrashing Tudor , whereas he might damage himself materially by having his name brought forward at the present moment in connection with that of his old friend . 
said he , preparing to pass on ; `` it has been my misfortune to know you , and one can not touch pitch , and not be defiled . 
When Alaric got home his jaw was so swollen with Undy 's well-directed blows that he could hardly open his mouth . 
On the following morning , at about eleven , a cab drove up to the door , and Alaric , standing at the dining-room window , saw Mrs. Woodward get out of it . 
`` There 's your mother , '' said Alaric to his wife . 
Alaric , will you not see mama ? '' 
`` Dear Alaric , mama will say nothing to you that is not kind ; do see her , for my sake , Alaric . '' 
But misery had not made him docile . 
He merely turned from her , and shook his head impatiently . 
Mrs. Woodward wanted no more words to tell her that Alaric had been guilty . 
`` Do n't say so , Alaric ; we can not tell what may be of use . 
He had received such explanation as Mrs. Woodward had been able to give , and though when he first heard the news he had spoken severely of Alaric , still his money should be forthcoming for the service of the family . 
He could produce some fifteen hundred pounds ; and would , if needs be that he should do so . 
`` Remember , Gertrude , love , in how short a time he will be your brother . '' 
When men such as Alaric Tudor stoop to dishonesty , the penalties of detection are not confined to their own hearthstone . 
And then Mrs. Woodward went her way to Norman 's office , without having spoken to Alaric . 
He was daily in connection with Alaric 's lawyer , and returned sometimes with hope and sometimes without it . 
We need not follow Charley , who was every day with Alaric , and who was , unknown to Alaric , an agent between him and Norman . 
was Alaric 's constant question to him , even up to the very eve of his trial . 
And that day was not long in coming ; indeed , it came with terrible alacrity ; much too quickly for Gertrude , much too quickly for Norman ; and much too quickly for Alaric 's lawyer . 
To Alaric only did the time pass slowly , for he found himself utterly without employment . 
At first these propositions were listened to , and Alaric 's friends were led to believe that the matter would be handled in such a way that the prosecution would fall to the ground . 
Whether or no Alaric 's night attack had anything to do with this , whether Undy had been the means of instigating this rigid adherence to justice , we are not prepared to say . 
And so Alaric and his wife sat down to breakfast on that last morning . 
She had brought their boy down , but as she perceived that the child 's presence did not please his father , he had been sent back to the nursery , and they were alone . 
She poured out his tea for him , put bread upon his plate , and then sat down close beside him , endeavouring to persuade him to eat . 
She had never yet found fault with him , she had never even ventured to give him counsel , but now she longed to entreat him to collect himself and take a man 's part in the coming trial . 
He sat in the seat prepared for him , but , instead of eating , he thrust his hands after his accustomed manner into his pockets and sat glowering at the teacups . 
`` Come , Alaric , wo n't you eat your breakfast ? '' 
He shuddered violently as she spoke , and motioned to her with his hand not to go on with what she was saying . 
He turned away his head , for a tear was in his eye . 
It was the first that had come to his assistance since this sorrow had come upon him . 
`` Do n't turn from me , dearest Alaric ; do not turn from me now at our last moments . 
To me at least you are the same noble Alaric that you ever were . '' 
said he , with all the self-scorn which he so truly felt . 
`` To me you are , now as ever ; but , Alaric , I do so fear that you will want strength , physical strength , you know , to go through all this . 
`` It will be but little matter , '' said he . 
My darling , darling husband , rouse youself , '' and she knelt before his knees and prayed to him ; `` for my sake do it , eat and drink that you may have the power of a man when all the world is looking at you . 
He did not answer her , but he turned to the table and broke the bread , and put his lips to the cup . 
And then she gave him food as she would give it to a child , and he with a child 's obedience ate and drank what was put before him . 
As he did so , every now and again a single tear forced itself beneath his eyelid and trickled down his face , and in some degree Gertrude was comforted . 
He had hardly finished his enforced breakfast when the cab and the lawyer came to the door . 
Alaric rose from his chair and made a faint attempt to smile . 
`` Well , Gertrude , '' said he , `` it has come at last . '' 
She rushed into his embrace , and throwing her arms around him , buried her face upon his breast . 
`` Alaric , Alaric , my husband ; my love , my best , my own , my only love . '' 
said she , starting back , but still holding him and looking up earnestly into his face . 
See you , Alaric ! 
`` But , Alaric , '' she went on , `` do not droop now , love -- will you ? '' 
`` No , not that , Alaric ; I would not have that . 
You have repented , have you not , Alaric ? '' 
`` I think so , I hope so , '' said Alaric , with his eyes upon the ground . 
I would not have you brazen , Alaric ; but be manly , be collected , be your own self , the man that I have loved , the man that I do now love so well , better , better than ever ; '' and she threw herself on him and kissed him and clung to him , and stroked his hair and put her hand upon his face , and then holding him from her , looked up to him as though he were a hero whom she all but worshipped . 
And now , Alaric , you will come up for one moment and kiss him before you go . '' 
`` Never mind ; let him be impatient -- you shall not go away without blessing your boy ; -- come up , Alaric . '' 
-- And she took him by the hand and led him like a child into the nursery . 
`` Where is he , nurse ? 
bring him here -- Papa is going away -- Alley , boy , give papa a big kiss . '' 
Alaric , for the first time for the fortnight , took the little fellow into his arms and kissed him . 
`` God bless you , my bairn , '' said he , `` and grant that all this may never be visited against you , here or hereafter . '' 
And , Alaric , wherever you are I will be close to you , remember that -- I will be quite , quite close to you . 
Now , one kiss -- oh , dearest , dearest Alaric -- there -- there -- and now go . '' 
And so he went , and Gertrude shutting herself into her room threw herself on to the bed , and wept aloud . 
`` Oh , mama -- dear mama , this is so good of you , so very good -- I am better than I was , mama ; better than I hoped to be -- but oh , mama , for his sake , would that this day was done . '' 
We must now follow Alaric to his trial . 
He was of course much too soon at court . 
He was to be tried at the Old Bailey . 
Alaric was the hero of the day , and people made way for him as though he had won a victory in India , and was going to receive the freedom of the city in a box . 
As he passed by , a gleam of light fell on him from a window , and at the instant three different artists had him photographed , daguerreotyped , and bedevilled ; four graphic members of the public press took down the details of his hat , whiskers , coat , trousers , and boots ; and the sub-editor of the `` Daily Delight '' observed , that `` there was a slight tremor in the first footstep which he took within the precincts of the prison , but in every other respect his demeanour was dignified and his presence manly ; he had light brown gloves , one of which was on his left hand , but the other was allowed to swing from his fingers . 
`` Come this way , Mr. Tudor ; follow me and we will get on without any trouble ; just follow me close , '' said Mr. Gitemthruet to his client , in a whisper which was audible to not a few . 
Tudor , who was assaying , and not altogether unsuccessfully , to bear the public gaze undismayed , did as he was bid , and followed Mr. Gitemthruet . 
If you want to insure a man 's life , Mr. Tudor , put him on the bench ; then he 'll never die . 
But Alaric was not at the moment inclined to meditate much on the long years of judges . 
He was thinking , or perhaps trying to think , whether it would not be better for him to save this crowd that was now gathered together all further trouble , and plead guilty at once . 
He knew he was guilty , he could not understand that it was possible that any juryman should have a doubt about it ; he had taken the money that did not belong to him ; that would be made quite clear ; he had taken it , and had not repaid it ; there was the absolute corpus delicti in court , in the shape of a deficiency of some thousands of pounds . 
What possible doubt would there be in the breast of any one as to his guilt ? 
Why should he vex his own soul by making himself for a livelong day a gazing-stock for the multitude ? 
Why should he trouble all those wigged counsellors , when one word from him would set it all at rest ? 
`` Mr. Gitemthruet , I think I 'll plead guilty , '' said he . 
It was the first time that his attorney had shown any sign of disgust , displeasure , or even disapprobation since he had taken Alaric 's matter in hand . 
Alaric endeavoured to explain to him that he was not joking , nor in a mood to joke ; but that he really thought the least vexatious course would be for him to plead guilty . 
But you are in my hands , Mr. Tudor , and you ca n't do ti . 
Think of your friends , Mr. Tudor , if you wo n't think of me or of yourself . '' 
His lawyer 's eloquence converted him , and he resolved that he would run his chance . 
Then up and spoke Mr. Younglad , who was Alaric 's junior counsel . 
Such was Mr. Chaffanbrass , who had been selected by the astute Mr. Gitemthruet to act as leading counsel on behalf of Alaric . 
The usual opening speech was made by the chief man on the prosecuting side , who , in the usual manner , declared `` that his only object was justice ; that his heart bled within him to see a man of such acknowledged public utility as Mr. Tudor in such a position ; that he sincerely hoped that the jury might find it possible to acquit him , but that -- '' And then he went into his `` but '' with so much venom that it was clearly discernible to all , that in spite of his protestations , his heart was set upon a conviction . 
There were ten or twelve witnesses , all much of the same sort , who proved among them that this sum of twenty thousand pounds had been placed at Alaric 's disposal , and that now , alas ! 
It seemed to be a very simple case ; and , to Alaric 's own understanding , it seemed impossible that his counsel should do anything for him . 
But as each impaled victim shrunk with agonized terror from the torture , Mr. Gitemthruet would turn round to Alaric and assure him that they were going on well , quite as well as he had expected . 
Alaric 's guilt was clear as daylight to all concerned ; but a man who had risen to be a Civil Service Commissioner , and to be entrusted with the guardianship of twenty thousand pounds , was not to be treated like a butcher who had merely smothered his wife in an ordinary way , or a housebreaker who had followed his professional career to its natural end ; more than that was due to the rank and station of the man , and to the very respectable retaining fee with which Mr. Gitemthruet had found himself enabled to secure the venom of Mr. Chaffanbrass . 
So the jury retired to regale themselves en masse at a neighbouring coffeehouse ; Alaric was again permitted to be at large on bail -LRB- the amiable policeman in mufti still attending him at a distance -RRB- ; and Mr. Chaffanbrass and his lordship retired to prepare themselves by rest for the morrow 's labours . 
But what was Alaric to do ? 
He soon found himself under the guardianship of the constant Gitemthruet in a neighbouring tavern , and his cousin Charley was with him . 
She had then said nothing as to Alaric 's return to his own house ; it had indeed not occurred to her that he would be at liberty to do so ; Charley at once caught at this , and strongly recommended his cousin to remain where he was . 
Mr. Gitemthruet strongly backed his advice , and Alaric , so counselled , resolved to remain where he was . 
Charley made one more visit to the West , saw Norman at his lodgings , and Mrs. Woodward and Gertrude in Albany Place , and then returned to make a night of it with Alaric . 
The jury were again in their box , ready with pen and paper to give their brightest attention , a brightness which will be dim enough before the long day be over ; the counsel for the prosecution were rummaging among their papers ; the witness for the defence were sitting there among the attorneys , with the exception of the Honourable Undercimus Scott , who was accommodated with a seat near the sheriff , and whose heart , to tell the truth , was sinking somewhat low within his breast in spite of the glass of brandy with which he had fortified himself ; Alaric was again present under the wings of Mr. Gitemthruet ; and the great Mr. Chaffanbrass was in his place . 
-- `` It had never , '' he said , `` been his fate , he might say his misfortune , to hear a case against a man in a respectable position , opened by the Crown with such an amount of envenomed virulence . '' 
Alaric looked up for a moment with surprise , and then averted his eyes . 
This he did speedily , for he had no desire to witness Alaric 's misery . 
`` I borrowed it from Mr. Tudor , '' said Undy , who had prepared himself to answer this question , glibly . 
`` You borrowed it from Mr. Alaric Tudor -- that is , from the gentleman now upon his trial . 
You borrowed it , I believe , just at the time that he became the lady 's trustee ? '' 
`` You have not repaid him as yet ? '' 
Can you at all say when Mr. Tudor may probably get his money ? '' 
Mr. Tudor did not want his money at an early day -- did n't he ? 
But , nevertheless , he has , I believe , asked for it since , and that very pressingly ? '' 
`` He has never asked for it , '' said Undy . 
`` They were bought with the money which I borrowed from Mr. Tudor . '' 
`` And where did Mr. Tudor get that money ? '' 
Now , sir , be good enough to tell the jury whence Mr. Tudor got that money ; or tell them , if you dare do so , that you do not know . '' 
For an instant he glanced up to the jury , and then allowed his eyes to resettle on the face of the witness , as though he might have said , `` There , gentlemen , there he is -- the son of a peer , a member of Parliament ; what do you think of him ? '' 
The judge looked at him with eyes which seemed to read his inmost soul ; the jury looked at him , condemning him one and all ; Alaric looked at him with fierce , glaring eyes of hatred , the same eyes that had glared at him that nigh when he had been collared in the street ; the whole crowd looked at him derisively ; but the eyes of them all were as nothing to the eyes of Mr. Chaffanbrass . 
`` I never saw him so great ; I never did , '' said Mr. Gitemthruet , whispering to his client ; and Alaric , even he felt some consolation in the terrible discomfiture of his enemy . 
`` I do n't know where he got it , '' said Undy , at last breaking the terrible silence , and wiping the perspiration from his brow . 
But this was just at the time that Mr. Tudor became the lady 's trustee ; I think you have admitted that . '' 
You told us just now , Mr. Scott , that some time since Mr. Tudor advised you to sell these shares -- what made him give you this advice ? '' 
`` He meant , he said , to sell his own . '' 
`` And he pressed you to sell yours ? '' 
`` He urged you to do so more than once ? '' 
`` Yes ; I believe he did . '' 
Though he himself made no further statement to the jury , he made it perfectly plain , by Undy 's own extracted admissions , or by the hesitation of his denials , that he had knowingly received this money out of his niece 's fortune , and that he had refused to sell the shares bought with this money , when pressed to do so by Tudor , in order that the trust-money might be again made up . 
There were those who blamed Mr. Chaffanbrass for thus admitting that his client had made away with his ward 's money , by lending it to Undy ; but that acute gentleman saw clearly that he could not contend against the fact of the property having been fraudulently used ; but he saw that he might induce the jury to attach so much guilt to Undy , that Tudor would , as it were , be whitened by the blackness of the other 's villany . 
`` Was it addressed to Mr. Tudor ? '' 
You mean to tell the jury , that you think that that note was not intended by you for Mr. Tudor ? '' 
`` And now , Mr. Scott -- was that note written by you to Mr. Tudor , with reference to certain shares , which you proposed that Mr. Tudor should place in your brother 's hands ? 
Did that note refer to a certain number of bridge shares , which you required Mr. Tudor to hand over to the step-father of this lady ? '' 
At eight o'clock the court again adjourned ; again Charley posted off -- for the third time that day -- to let Gertrude know that , even as yet , all was not over ; and again he and Alaric spent a melancholy evening at the neighbouring tavern ; and then again , on the third morning , all were reassembled at the Old Bailey . 
The judge and jury , however , were there , so were the prosecuting counsel , so were Mr. Chaffanbrass and Mr. Younglad , and so was poor Alaric . 
The work of the day was commenced by the judge 's charge , and then Alaric , to his infinite dismay , found how all the sophistry and laboured arguments of his very talented advocate were blown to the winds , and shown to be worthless . 
That is not the issue which you are called on to decide ; not whether Mr. Scott , for purposes of his own , led Mr. Tudor on to guilt , and then turned against him ; but whether Mr. Tudor himself has , or has not , been guilty under this act of Parliament that has been explained to you . 
`` If it be your opinion that Mr. Tudor be guilty , and that he was unwarily enticed into guilty by Mr. Scott ; that the whole arrangement of this trust was brought about by Mr. Scott or others , to enable him or them , to make a cat 's - paw of this new trustee , and thus use the lady 's money for their own purposes , such an opinion on your part may justify you in recommending the prisoner to the merciful consideration of the bench ; but it can not justify you in finding a verdict of not guilty . '' 
As Alaric heard this , and much more to the same effect , his hopes , which certainly had been high during the examination of Undy Scott , again sank to zero , and left him in despair . 
His words were low in their tone , though very clear , impassive , delivered without gesticulation or artifice , such as that so powerfully used by Mr. Chaffanbrass ; but Alaric himself felt that it was impossible to doubt the truth of such a man ; impossible to suppose that any juryman should do so . 
Mr. Chaffanbrass seemed to have forgotten the very existence of Alaric Tudor , and was deeply engaged in vindicating a city butcher from an imputation of having vended a dead ass by way of veal . 
A verdict , that is a unanimous decision from these twelve men as to Alaric 's guilt , was necessary ; it might be , that three would think him innocent and nine guilty , or that any other division of opinion might take place ; but such divisions among a jury are opposed to the spirit of the British constitution . 
But in Alaric 's case , reason or hunger did prevail at the last moment , and as the judge was leaving the court , he was called back to receive the verdict . 
Alaric , also , was brought back , still under Mr. Gitemthruet 's wing , and with him came Charley . 
Not long since men were crowding for seats , and the policemen were hardly able to restrain the pressure of those who pushed forward ; but now there was no pushing ; the dingy , dirty benches , a few inches of which had lately been so desirable , were not at all in request , and were anything but inviting in appearance ; Alaric , sat himself down on the very spot which had lately been sacred to Mr. Chaffanbrass , and Mr. Gitemthruet seated above him , might also fancy himself a barrister . 
There they sat for five minutes in perfect silence ; the suspense of the moment cowed even the attorney , and Charley , who sat on the other side of Alaric , was so affected , that he could hardly have spoken had he wished to do so . 
Mr. Tudor , I know what has been your career , how great your services to your country , how unexceptionable your conduct as a public servant ; I trust , I do trust , I most earnestly , most hopefully trust that your career of utility is not over . 
Alaric was taken off in custody ; the policeman in mufti was released from his attendance ; and Charley , with a heavy heart , carried the news to Gertrude and Mrs. Woodward . 
Linda 's marriage was put off till the period of Alaric 's sentence should be over , and till something should be settled as to his and Gertrude 's future career . 
But Alaric 's condition , Gertrude 's misery , and Katie 's illness , threw all such matters into the background . 
He is not just like a brother or a brother-in-law , such as Harry and Alaric ; we are not bound to each other as relations are ; but yet I feel that something does bind me to him . 
I know he does n't love me , as I love him ; but yet I think he loves me dearly : and if I speak to him now , mama , now that I am -- that I am so ill , perhaps he will mind me . 
Mama , it will be as though one came unto him from the dead . 
For many reasons she would have done so , had she been able ; in the first place she did not think that all chance of Katie 's recovery was gone ; and then at the present moment she felt no inclination to draw closer to her any of the Tudor family . 
She could not but feel that Alaric had been the means of disgracing and degrading one child ; and truly , deeply , warmly , as she sympathized with the other , she could not bring herself to feel the same sympathy for the object of her love . 
Since Alaric 's conviction Charley had led a busy life ; and as men who have really something to do have seldom time to get into much mischief , he had been peculiarly moral and respectable . 
It is not surprising that at such a moment Gertrude found that Alaric 's newer friends fell off from him . 
`` I need not explain to you , '' she said in her note , `` that we are all in great distress ; poor Katie is very ill , and you will understand what we must feel about Alaric and Gertrude . 
She smiled as though to cheer him , and said that now she saw him she could be quite happy , only for poor Alaric and Gertrude . 
She hoped she might live to see Alaric again ; but if not , Charley was to give him her best -- best love . 
Everything in the house was given up to pay what Alaric owed . 
Independently of his dreadful liability to Madame Jaquêtanàpe , he could not have been said to be in debt ; but still , like most other men who live as he had done , when his career was thus brought to a sudden close , it was found that there were many people looking for money . 
At the moment of Alaric 's conviction there was but a slender stock of money forthcoming for these little bills . 
The necessary expense of his trial , -- and it had been by no means trifling , -- he had , of course , been obliged to pay . 
His salary had been suspended , and all the money that he could lay his hands on , had been given up towards making restitution towards the dreadful sum of 20,000 l. that had been his ruin . 
The bills , however , did not come in till after his trial , and then there was but little left but the furniture . 
As the new trustees employed on behalf of Madame Jaquêtanàpe and Mr. Figgs were well aware that they had much more to expect from the generosity of Tudor 's friends than from any legal seizure of his property , they did not interfere in the disposal of the chairs and tables . 
Some few things , books and trifling household articles , which she thought were dear to Alaric , she packed up ; and such were sent to Hampton . 
Alaric was allowed the use of books and pens and paper , but even with these he found a day in prison to be almost an unendurable eternity . 
This was the real punishment of his guilt ; it was not that he could not eat well , and lie soft , or enjoy the comforts which had always surrounded him ; but that the day would not pass away . 
The slowness of the lagging hours nearly drove him mad . 
He made a thousand resolutions as to reading , writing , and employment for his mind . 
He attempted to learn whole pages by rote , and to fatigue himself to rest by exercise of his memory . 
But his memory would not work ; his mind would continue idle ; he was impotent over his own faculties . 
Oh , if he could only sleep while those horrid weeks were passing over him . 
All hope of regaining his situation had of course passed from him , all hopes of employment in England . 
Emigration must now be his lot ; and hers also , and the lot of that young one that was already born to them , and of that other one who was , alas ! 
Alaric felt that even his utter poverty would be no misfortune if only this captivity were over . 
-- Alaric had so aspired , and how must he have felt during those prison days ? 
Of what nature must his thoughts have been when they turned to Gertrude and his child . 
His sin had indeed been heavy , and heavy was the penalty which he suffered . 
said Alaric , as he stooped to kiss him . 
said Gertrude , looking up to him with a smile upon her face -- `` he is no wretch . 
Both Alaric and Norman had shown a great distaste to meet each other . 
When Mrs. Woodward had expressed a hope that they would do so before Alaric took his final departure for Australia , neither had positively refused to accede to her request ; but it was so clear both to her and to Gertrude that neither wished it , that the idea was abandoned . 
They were to sail on the very day after Alaric 's liberation , so as to save him from the misery of meeting those who might know him . 
It was well for her and Alaric that she could face it all with the true courage of an honest woman . 
Twas thus that Harry Norman consoled himself in the first moment of his first interview with Alaric 's wife . 
Could he have laid bare his heart , he would have declared that Alaric Tudor owed him nothing , that he had never forgiven , never could forgive , the wrongs he had received from him ; but that he had forgiven Alaric 's wife ; and that having done so in the tenderness of his heart , he had been ready to give up all that he possessed for her protection . 
He would have spared Gertrude what pain he could ; but he would not lie , and speak of Alaric Tudor with affection . 
`` It is with Mrs. Woodward , '' said he , coldly , `` and Captain Cuttwater , not with me , that you should speak of that . 
Mr. Tudor owes me nothing . '' 
`` Oh , Harry , Harry , '' said she , `` do not call him Mr. Tudor -- pray , pray ; now that we are going -- now that we shall never wound your sight again ; do not call him Mr. Tudor . 
He has done wrong ; I do not deny it ; but which of us is there that has not ? '' 
`` It was not on that account , '' said he ; `` I could forgive all that . '' 
Gertrude understood him , and her cheeks and brow became tinged with red . 
`` If you have forgiven him that '' -- she would have said , had she thought it right to speak out her mind -- `` if you have forgiven him that , then there is nothing left for further forgiveness . '' 
Gertrude had twice a better knowledge of the world than he had , twice a quicker perception of how things were going , and should be made to go . 
This hardly came well from Gertrude , seeing that Alaric at any rate had never been required to sacrifice any of his individuality . 
But she was determined to hate all the antecedents of his life , as though those antecedents , and not the laxity of his own principles , had brought about his ruin . 
She would , of course , go to Katie and give her a farewell embrace , since Katie was still too weak to come to her ; she would say farewell to Uncle Bat , to whom she and Alaric owed so much ; she would doubtless shed a tear or two , and feel some emotion at parting , even from the inanimate associations of her youth ; but all this would now impress no lasting sorrow on her . 
She was eager to be off , eager for her new career , eager that he should stand on a soil where he could once more face his fellow-creatures without shame . 
She panted to put thousands of leagues of ocean between him and his disgrace . 
On that evening Alaric would be released from his prison ; and then before day-break on the following day they were to take their way to the far-off docks , and place themselves on board the vessel which was to carry them to their distant home . 
Before we put Alaric on board the ship which is to take him away from the land in which he might have run so exalted a career , we must say one word as to the fate and fortunes of his old friend Undy Scott . 
He has indeed been the bad spirit of the tale , the Seeva of our mythology , the devil that has led our hero into temptation , the incarnation of evil , which it is always necessary that the novelist should have personified in one of his characters to enable him to bring about his misfortunes , his tragedies , and various requisite catastrophes . 
The club to which Undy more especially belonged was called the Downing ; and of this Alaric was also a member , having been introduced into it by his friend . 
Here had Alaric spent by far too many of the hours of his married life , and had become well-known and popular . 
At the time of his conviction the summer was far advanced ; it was then August ; but Parliament was still sitting , and there were sufficient club men remaining in London to create a daily gathering at the Downing . 
The proposition was this : that as he had unfortunately been the means of introducing Mr. Alaric Tudor to the club , he considered it to be his duty to suggest that the name of that gentleman should be struck off the books . 
He then expressed his unmitigated disgust at the crime of which Tudor had been found guilty , uttered some nice little platitudes in the cause of virtue , and expressed a hope `` that he might so far refer to a personal matter as to say that his father 's family would take care that the lady , whose fortune had been the subject of the trial , should not lose one penny through the dishonesty of her trustee . '' 
`` He felt it his duty , '' he said , `` to second the proposal made by Mr. Scott for removing Mr. Tudor from amongst them . 
He had watched this trial with some care , and he pitied Mr. Tudor from the bottom of his heart . 
He would not have thought that he could have felt so strong a sympathy for a man convicted of dishonesty . 
But Mr. Tudor had been convicted , and he must incur the penalties of his fault . 
One of these penalties must , undoubtedly , be his banishment from this club . 
He therefore seconded Mr. Scott 's proposal . '' 
`` And now , '' he said , `` he had another proposition to make ; and that was that Mr. Undecimus Scott should also be expelled from the club , '' and having so spoken , in a voice of unusual energy , he then sat down . 
Time had been -- nay , it was but the other day -- when Alaric 's impatient soul would have spurned at such a pace as this . 
But now he sat tranquil enough . 
His wife held one of his hands , and the other he pressed against his eyes , as though shading them from the light . 
Light there was none , but he had not yet learnt to face Mrs. Woodward even in the darkness . 
He had come out of the prison on the day before , and had spent an evening with her . 
It is needless to say that no one had upbraided him , that no one had hinted that his backslidings had caused all this present misery , had brought them all to that wretched cabin , and would on the morrow separate , perhaps for ever , a mother and a child who loved each other so dearly . 
No one spoke to him of this ; perhaps no one thought of it ; he , however , did so think of it , that he could not hold his head up before them . 
Alaric , the meanwhile , stood leaning over the taffrail with Charley , as mute as the fishes beneath him . 
`` And now we had better get off -- you 'll be better when we are gone , Alaric '' -- Charley had some sense of the truth about him -- `` And , Alaric , take my word for it , I 'll come and set the Melbourne Weights and Measures to rights before long - I 'll come and weigh your gold for you . '' 
Alaric came to them at the last moment -- `` Mrs. Woodward , '' said he , `` say that you forgive me . '' 
`` I do , '' said she , embracing him -- `` God knows that I do ; -- but , Alaric , remember what a treasure you possess . '' 
And now , having despatched Alaric and his wife and bairns on their long journey , we must go back for a while and tell how Charley had been transformed from an imprudent , idle , young navvy into a well-conducted , zealous , young Weights . 
When Alaric was convicted , Charley had , as we all know , belonged to the Internal Navigation ; when the six months ' sentence had expired , Charley was in full blow at the decorous office in Whitehall ; and during the same period Norman had resigned and taken on himself the new duties of a country squire . 
There a new broom had been brought in , in the place of our poor friend Alaric , a broom which seemed determined to sweep all before it with an unmitigable energy . 
But at present , Mr. Tudor , you really must be aware that it is quite out of the question . '' 
He went himself to Sir Gregory , and explained , not only his own circumstances , and his former friendship with Alaric Tudor , but also the relationship between Alaric and Charley . 
But the upshot was this : two men bearing equal character -- Mr. Nogo would not say whether the characters of the gentlemen were good or bad -- he would only say equal characters -- sat in the same room at this now defunct office , one was Mr. Corkscrew and the other Mr. Tudor . 
The feeling of disgrace which had fallen upon them all since the days of Alaric 's trial had by no means worn itself away . 
That evil which Alaric had done to them was not to be undone in a few moons . 
Alaric , Alaric , that thou , thou who knewest all this , that thou shouldest have done this thing ! 
They had forgiven his offence against them , but they could not forget their own involuntary participation in his disgrace . 
What would have been Linda 's fate , how unendurable , had she been Alaric 's wife , when Alaric fell ? 
Charley had been there , Charley to whom she had declared her love when lying , as she thought , on her bed of death -- Charley had been there again , and had stood close to her , and touched her hand , and looked -- Oh , how much handsomer he was than Harry , how much brighter than Alaric ! 
-- he had touched her hand , and spoken to her one word of joy at her recovered health . 
There was a sort of compact , Katie knew , that there should be no other Tudor marriage . 
There was already one little rocking shrine , up in that cosy temple opening out of Katie 's bedroom -- we beg her pardon , we should have said Mrs. Charles Tudor 's bed-room -- one precious tabernacle in which was laid a little man-deity , a young Charley , to whom was daily paid a multitude of very sincere devotions . 
Alaric 's path in the land of his banishment had not been over roses . 
He , and with him Gertrude and his children , had been called on to pay the full price of his backsliding . 
His history had gone with him to the Antipodes , and though the knowledge of what he had done was not there so absolute a clog upon his efforts , so overpowering a burden as it would have been in London , still it was a burden and a heavy one . 
`` Thank God , we are once more all well , '' she said ; `` and Alaric 's spirits are higher than they were . 
He has , indeed , had much to try them . 
Alaric was four months in these men 's counting-house , and I am sure another four months would have seen him in his grave . 
Though I knew not then what other provision might be made for us , I implored him , almost on my knees , to give up that . 
He was expected to be there for ten , sometimes twelve hours a day ; and they thought he should always be kept going like a steam-engine . 
You know Alaric never was afraid of work ; but that would have killed him . 
What did they give him for that -- for all his talent , all his experience , all his skill ? 
And he did give them all . 
His salary was two pounds ten a week ! 
And then when he told them of all he was doing for them , they had the baseness to remind him of -- . 
It was that that made me insist that he should leave them . '' 
Alaric 's present path was by no means over roses . 
This certainly was a change from those days in which he had sat , one of a mighty trio , at the Civil Service Examination Board , striking terror into candidates by a scratch of his pen , and making happy the desponding heart by his approving nod . 
His ambition now was not to sit among the magnates of Great Britain , and make his voice thunder through the columns of the `` Times ; '' it ranged somewhat lower at this period , and was confined for the present to a strong desire to see his wife and bairns sufficiently fed , and not left absolutely without clothing . 
He inquired little as to the feeling of the electors of Strathbogy . 
And had he utterly forgotten the stirring motto of his early days ? 
Did he never mutter `` Excelsior '' to himself , as , with weary steps , he dragged himself home from that hated counting-house ? 
he had fatally mistaken the meaning of the word which he had so often used . 
There had been the error of his life . 
When he took such a watchword for his use , he should surely have taught himself the meaning of it . 
He had now learnt that lesson in a school somewhat of the sternest ; but , as time wore kindly over him , he did teach himself to accept the lesson with humility . 
His spirit had been well nigh broken as he was carried from that court-house in the Old Bailey to his prison on the river side ; and a broken spirit , like a broken goblet , can never again become whole . 
`` But his present place , '' continued Gertrude , `` is much -- very much more suited to him . 
He is corresponding clerk in the first bank here , and though his pay is nearly double what it was at the other place , his hours of work are not so oppressive . 
He goes at nine and gets away at five -- that is , except on the arrival or despatch of the English mails . '' 
It will be seen that hope yet remained both for Alaric and his wife ; and hope not without a reasonable base . 
Bad as he had been , it had not been with him as with Undy Scott . 
` Mr. Tudor has acquired some little reputation as a humorist , but as is so often the case with those who make us laugh , his very success will prove his ruin . ' 
` The `` World 's Last Wonder '' is the description of a woman who kept a secret under certain temptations to reveal it , which , as Mr. Tudor supposes , might have moved any daughter of Eve to break her faith . ' 
` This secret , which we shall not disclose , as we would not wish to be thought less trustworthy than Mr. Tudor 's wonderful woman -- ' `` We shall find that he does disclose it , of course ; that is the way with all of them . '' 
` -- And partly because it gives a fair example of the manner in which Mr. Tudor endeavours to be droll even in the midst of his most tender passages . ' 
Why it should be so , we do not pretend to say ; but it certainly does appear to us that Mr. Tudor is more at home in the servants ' hall , than in the lady 's boudoir . ' 
