I. , Introduction , p. xvi. ; and so soft sleep the offended phantom of Dugald Ciar Mohr . 
I. , Introduction , p. xvi. ; and so soft sleep the offended phantom of Dugald Ciar Mohr . 
A cavalier of honour , in search of his fortune , might , for example , change his service as he would his shirt , fight , like the doughty Captain Dalgetty , in one cause after another , without regard to the justice of the quarrel , and might plunder the peasantry subjected to him by the fate of war with the most unrelenting repacity ; but he must beware how he sustained the slightest reproach , even from a clergyman , if it had regard to neglect on the score of duty . 
The above quotation is taken from a work which the author repeatedly consulted while composing the following sheets , and which is in great measure written in the humour of Captain Dugald Dalgetty . 
From this curious book I extract the following passage , as an example of how Captain Dalgetty might have recorded such an incident had he kept a journal , or , to give it a more just character , it is such as the genius of De Foe would have devised , to give the minute and distinguishing features of truth to a fictitious narrative : -- `` Heere I will set doun ane accident befell me ; for thogh it was not a very strange one , yet it was a very od one in all its parts . 
Still Dalgetty , as the production of his own fancy , has been so far a favourite with its parent , that he has fallen into the error of assigning to the Captain too prominent a part in the story . 
The passage occurs in the Edinburgh Review , No. 55 , containing a criticism on Ivanhoe : -- `` There is too much , perhaps , of Dalgetty , -- or , rather , he engrosses too great a proportion of the work , -- for , in himself , we think he is uniformly entertaining ; -- and the author has nowhere shown more affinity to that matchless spirit who could bring out his Falstaffs and his Pistols , in act after act , and play after play , and exercise them every time with scenes of unbounded loquacity , without either exhausting their humour , or varying a note from its characteristic tone , than in his large and reiterated specimens of the eloquence of the redoubted Ritt-master . 
`` Truly , my lord , '' said the trooper , `` my name is Dalgetty -- Dugald Dalgetty , Ritt-master Dugald Dalgetty of Drumthwacket , at your honourable service to command . 
`` It came slow , my lord , dooms slow , '' replied Dalgetty ; `` but as my Scottish countrymen , the fathers of the war , and the raisers of those valorous Scottish regiments that were the dread of Germany , began to fall pretty thick , what with pestilence and what with the sword , why we , their children , succeeded to their inheritance . 
`` And yet , if I understand you , Captain Dalgetty , -- I think that rank corresponds with your foreign title of ritt-master '' -- `` The same grade preceesely , '' answered Dalgetty ; `` ritt-master signifying literally file-leader . '' 
`` It was after his death -- it was after his death , sir , '' said Dalgetty , `` when I was in no shape bound to continue mine adherence . 
`` My lord , '' said Dalgetty , `` I take it on my conscience , that at no period , and by no possible process , could one creutzer of them ever be recovered . 
`` Indubitably , my lord , '' answered Dalgetty , composedly ; `` for it would be doubly disgraceful for any soldado of rank to have his name called in question for any petty delinquency . '' 
`` You are to consider , my lord , that your Spaniard , '' replied Captain Dalgetty , `` is a person altogether unparalleled in his own conceit , where-through he maketh not fit account of such foreign cavaliers of valour as are pleased to take service with him . 
`` I should not have thought , Captain Dalgetty , '' said the young nobleman , `` that an old soldier , who had changed service so often , would have been too scrupulous on that head . '' 
`` As clear as it could be , '' replied Captain Dalgetty , `` considering we had drunk six flasks of Rhenish , and about two mutchkins of Kirchenwasser . 
`` I should have thought , '' said he to Captain Dalgetty , `` that a cavalier of your honourable mark , who hath so long followed the valiant King of Sweden , and entertains such a suitable contempt for the base mechanical States of Holland , would not have hesitated to embrace the cause of King Charles , in preference to that of the low-born , roundheaded , canting knaves , who are in rebellion against his authority ? '' 
`` Ye speak reasonably , my lord , '' said Dalgetty , `` and , cæteris paribus , I might be induced to see the matter in the same light . 
`` And pray , Captain Dalgetty , '' said his lordship , `` since the pretensions of both parties seem to you so equal , will you please to inform us by what circumstances your preference will be determined ? '' 
`` Sir , I shall be amenable to reason , '' said Captain Dalgetty , `` supposing it addresses itself to my honour and my interest . 
`` And I should like well -- very well , to be employed in such service , '' said Dalgetty ; `` the Irish are pretty fellows -- very pretty fellows -- I desire to see none better in the field . 
`` And yet , '' said Captain Dalgetty , `` my second and greatest difficulty remains behind ; for , although I hold it a mean and sordid thing for a soldado to have nothing in his mouth but pay and gelt , like the base cullions , the German lanz-knechts , whom I mentioned before ; and although I will maintain it with my sword , that honour is to be preferred before pay , free quarters , and arrears , yet , ex contrario , a soldier 's pay being the counterpart of his engagement of service , it becomes a wise and considerate cavalier to consider what remuneration he is to receive for his service , and from what funds it is to be paid . 
-- `` I think , my lord , '' he said , `` that , under your lordship 's favour , I could say something to remove Captain Dalgetty 's second objection also . 
said Dalgetty . 
`` I profess , '' said Dalgetty , addressing Lord Menteith , `` your lordship 's servant has a sensible , natural , pretty idea of military matters ; somewhat irregular , though , and smells a little too much of selling the bear 's skin before he has hunted him . 
But Captain Dalgetty refused the proffered assistance of those who wished to relieve him of the charge of his horse . 
`` I differ from you , Anderson , '' said Lord Menteith ; `` I think this fellow Dalgetty is one of those horse-leeches , whose appetite for blood being only sharpened by what he has sucked in foreign countries , he is now returned to batten upon that of his own . 
`` And here she comes , '' said Donald , as Captain Dalgetty entered the hall ; `` and I hope gentlemens will all take bread and cheese , as we say in the glens , until better meat be ready , until the Tiernach comes back frae the hill wi ' the southern gentlefolk , and then Dugald Cook will show himself wi ' his kid and hill venison . '' 
In the meantime , Captain Dalgetty had entered the apartment , and , walking up to the seat placed next Lord Menteith , was leaning on the back of it with his arms folded . 
In the midst of these preparations , Allan suddenly started up , and snatching a lamp from the hand of an attendant , held it close to Dalgetty 's face , while he perused his features with the most heedful and grave attention . 
`` By my honour , '' said Dalgetty , half displeased , as , mysteriously shaking his head , Allan gave up the scrutiny -- `` I trow that lad and I will ken each other when we meet again . '' 
`` If your lordship is assured that he is non compos mentis , '' said Captain Dalgetty , `` the whilk his breeding and behaviour seem to testify , the matter must end here , seeing that a madman can neither give an affront , nor render honourable satisfaction . 
Great joy was expressed by all parties , for Lord Menteith and the English gentlemen were well known to each other ; and on Lord Menteith 's introduction , Captain Dalgetty was well received by the Laird . 
Notwithstanding the proverbial epicurism of the English , -- proverbial , that is to say , in Scotland at the period , -- the English visitors made no figure whatever at the entertainment , compared with the portentous voracity of Captain Dalgetty , although that gallant soldier had already displayed much steadiness and pertinacity in his attack upon the lighter refreshment set before them at their entrance , by way of forlorn hope . 
Captain Dalgetty , however , thought it necessary to enter a protest . 
`` I trust , '' he concluded , `` we shall be able to secure Captain Dalgetty 's assistance to our own party . '' 
Lord Menteith thanked him sincerely , saying , `` It was just the arrangement he would have requested ; for , although he had not the least apprehension of violence from Captain Dalgetty , yet Anderson was a better kind of person , a sort of gentleman , whom he always liked to have near his person . '' 
His host left the apartment after the evening salutation , and was about to pay the same compliment to Captain Dalgetty , but observing him deeply engaged in the discussion of a huge pitcher filled with brandy posset , he thought it a pity to disturb him in so laudable an employment , and took his leave without farther ceremony . 
exclaimed the Captain , turning round in great astonishment , `` here 's a common fellow -- a stipendiary with four pounds a-year and a livery cloak , thinks himself too good to serve Ritt-master Dugald Dalgetty of Drumthwacket , who has studied humanity at the Mareschal-College of Aberdeen , and served half the princes of Europe ! '' 
`` Captain Dalgetty , '' said Lord Menteith , whose lot it was to stand peacemaker throughout the evening , `` please to understand that Anderson waits upon no one but myself ; but I will help Sibbald to undo your corslet with much pleasure . '' 
`` Too much trouble for you , my lord , '' said Dalgetty ; `` and yet it would do you no harm to practise how a handsome harness is put on and put off . 
`` A long story , my lord , '' said Captain Dalgetty , `` is , next to a good evening draught and a warm nightcap , the best shoeing-horn for drawing on a sound sleep . 
Having thus assembled an audience about him , Lord Menteith sat down upon the edge of the four-post bed , while Captain Dalgetty , wiping the relics of the posset from his beard and mustachoes , and repeating the first verse of the Lutheran psalm , Alle guter geister loben den Herrn , & c. rolled himself into one of the places of repose , and thrusting his shock pate from between the blankets , listened to Lord Menteith 's relation in a most luxurious state , between sleeping and waking . 
Her brother , an honourable and spirited young man , obtained from James the Sixth a grant of forestry , and other privileges , over a royal chase adjacent to this castle ; and , in exercising and defending these rights , he was so unfortunate as to involve himself in a quarrel with some of our Highland freebooters or caterans , of whom I think , Captain Dalgetty , you must have heard . '' 
`` Before I left the Mareschal-College of Aberdeen , Dugald Garr was playing the devil in the Garioch , and the Farquharsons on Dee-side , and the Clan Chattan on the Gordons ' lands , and the Grants and Camerons in Moray-land . 
-- But I tire you , Captain Dalgetty , and you seem inclined to sleep . '' 
`` To your right hand , counter-march and retreat to your former ground , '' said Captain Dalgetty ; the military phrase having produced the correspondent word of command ; and then starting up , professed he had been profoundly attentive to every word that had been spoken . 
`` Captain Dalgetty , '' said Lord Menteith , `` the time is come that we must part , or become comrades in service . '' 
said Captain Dalgetty . 
`` Our pay , '' said Lord Menteith , `` must at present be small , since it is paid out of the common stock raised by the few amongst us who can command some funds -- As major and adjutant , I dare not promise Captain Dalgetty more than half a dollar a-day . '' 
`` The parallel will scarce hold , Captain Dalgetty , for I think you would rather consent to the dividing of the dollar , than give it up entire to your competitor . 
said Captain Dalgetty , `` that are always promised , and always go for nothing ! 
`` I can resolve Captain Dalgetty 's question , '' said Sibbald , Lord Menteith 's second attendant ; `` for if his estate of Drumthwacket be , as I conceive , the long waste moor so called , that lies five miles south of Aberdeen , I can tell him it was lately purchased by Elias Strachan , as rank a rebel as ever swore the Covenant . '' 
said Captain Dalgetty , in a rage ; `` what the devil gave him the assurance to purchase the inheritance of a family of four hundred years standing ? 
`` That is more than necessary , '' said Dalgetty , pocketing the money however . 
The army which they had dispatched to England under old Leven comprehended their veteran soldiers , the strength of those armies which had been levied in Scotland during the two former wars '' -- Here Captain Dalgetty endeavoured to rise , for the purpose of explaining how many veteran officers , trained in the German wars , were , to his certain knowledge , in the army of the Earl of Leven . 
Captain Dalgetty looked upon him with a very scornful and indignant air , by which the other 's gravity was in no way moved , and Lord Menteith proceeded without farther interruption . 
He had only farther to add , that considerable funds , both of money and ammunition , had been provided for the army '' -- -LRB- Here Dalgetty pricked up his ears -RRB- -- `` that officers of ability and experience in the foreign wars , one of whom was now present , '' -LRB- the Captain drew himself up , and looked round , -RRB- `` had engaged to train such levies as might require to be disciplined ; -- and that a numerous body of auxiliary forces from Ireland , having been detached from the Earl of Antrim , from Ulster , had successfully accomplished their descent upon the main land , and , with the assistance of Clanranald 's people , having taken and fortified the Castle of Mingarry , in spite of Argyle 's attempts to intercept them , were in full march to this place of rendezvous . 
`` By the honour of a cavalier , '' said Captain Dalgetty , finding at length an opportunity to thrust in his word , `` I am proud and happy in having an opportunity of drawing a sword under your lordship 's command ; and I do forgive all grudge , male-content , and malice of my heart , to Mr Allan M'Aulay , for having thrust me down to the lowest seat of the board yestreen . 
Captain Dalgetty might have construed this into a new affront , had not his attention , as he stood blowing and shaking the injured member , been suddenly called by Montrose himself . 
`` Hear this news , '' he said , `` Captain Dalgetty -- I should say Major Dalgetty , -- the Irish , who are to profit by your military experience , are now within a few leagues of us . '' 
`` And respecting arms , '' said Captain Dalgetty , `` if your lordship will permit an old cavalier to speak his mind , so that the one-third have muskets , my darling weapon would be the pike for the remainder , whether for resisting a charge of horse , or for breaking the infantry . 
In this dilemma , Montrose , who considered the proposed armistice as a mere stratagem on the part of Argyle , although he had not ventured bluntly to reject it in presence of those whom it concerned so nearly , resolved to impose the danger and dignity upon Captain Dalgetty , who had neither clan nor estate in the Highlands upon which the wrath of Argyle could wreak itself . 
`` But I have a neck though , '' said Dalgetty , bluntly ; `` and what if he chooses to avenge himself upon that ? 
`` By my honour , Captain Dalgetty , '' said Montrose , `` should the Marquis , contrary to the rules of war , dare to practise any atrocity against you , you may depend upon my taking such signal vengeance that all Scotland shall ring of it . '' 
`` That will do but little for Dalgetty , '' returned the Captain ; `` but corragio ! 
When he had put Captain Dalgetty in complete possession of his instructions , and when that worthy , making his military obeisance , was near the door of his apartment , Montrose made him a sign to return . 
In short , Captain Dalgetty , you must be un peu clair-voyant . '' 
your Excellency , '' said the Captain , twisting his hard features into an inimitable expression of cunning and intelligence , `` if they do not put my head in a poke , which I have known practised upon honourable soldados who have been suspected to come upon such errands as the present , your Excellency may rely on a preceese narration of whatever Dugald Dalgetty shall hear or see , were it even how many turns of tune there are in M'Callum More 's pibroch , or how many checks in the sett of his plaid and trews . '' 
`` Enough , '' answered Montrose ; `` farewell , Captain Dalgetty : and as they say that a lady 's mind is always expressed in her postscript , so I would have you think that the most important part of your commission lies in what I have last said to you . '' 
Dalgetty once more grinned intelligence , and withdrew to victual his charger and himself , for the fatigues of his approaching mission . 
Captain Dalgetty for an instant looked steadily , first at one of the gentlemen and next at the other , and then asked them , as if in a state of indecision , what they would advise him to do with Gustavus under such circumstances . 
`` In brief , mine honourable friends , '' said Captain Dalgetty , again eyeing them both with an air of comic penetration , `` I find it would not be altogether unacceptable to either of you , to have some token to remember the old soldier by , in case it shall please M'Callum More to hang him up at the gate of his own castle . 
`` Do you think , '' said the Englishman , `` that the Marquis will not respect , in Captain Dalgetty 's person , the laws of civilized war ? '' 
Angus M'Aulay , equally embarrassed and incensed at the charge of inhospitality , which was the greatest possible affront to a Highlander , did not follow Sir Duncan to the court-yard , where , mounting his palfrey , which was in readiness , followed by six mounted attendants , and accompanied by the noble Captain Dalgetty , who had also awaited him , holding Gustavus ready for action , though he did not draw his girths and mount till Sir Duncan appeared , the whole cavalcade left the castle . 
The wind being favourable , they pursued their way rapidly with sails and oars ; and early the next morning it was announced to Captain Dalgetty , then in a small cabin beneath the half-deck , that the galley was under the walls of Sir Duncan Campbell 's castle . 
The eastern sun , rising behind the old tower , flung its shadow far on the lake , darkening the deck of the galley , on which Captain Dalgetty now walked , waiting with some impatience the signal to land . 
Two of the boatmen , in spite of Dalgetty 's resistance , horsed the Captain on the back of a third Highlander , and , wading through the surf with him , landed him high and dry upon the beach beneath the castle rock . 
In the face of this rock there appeared something like the entrance of a low-browed cavern , towards which the assistants were preparing to hurry our friend Dalgetty , when , shaking himself loose from them with some difficulty , he insisted upon seeing Gustavus safely landed before he proceeded one step farther . 
Farther remonstrance on the part of Captain Dalgetty was interrupted by the appearance of Sir Duncan Campbell himself , from the mouth of the cavern which we have described , for the purpose of inviting Captain Dalgetty to accept of the hospitality of Ardenvohr , pledging his honour , at the same time , that Gustavus should be treated as became the hero from whom he derived his name , not to mention the important person to whom he now belonged . 
Notwithstanding this satisfactory guarantee , Captain Dalgetty would still have hesitated , such was his anxiety to witness the fate of his companion Gustavus , had not two Highlanders seized him by the arms , two more pushed him on behind , while a fifth exclaimed , `` Hout awa wi ' the daft Sassenach ! 
Thus impelled , Captain Dalgetty could only for a short space keep a reverted eye towards the galley in which he had left the partner of his military toils . 
Captain Dalgetty knew the world too well to offer any farther remonstrance , whatever uneasiness he might suppress within his own bosom . 
Sir Duncan Campbell made no answer at the time ; but , the moment afterwards , when they had entered the second cavern , he struck with the stick which he had in his hand , first on the one side , and then on the other of the wicket , and the sullen ringing sound which replied to the blows , made Captain Dalgetty sensible that there was a gun placed on each side , for the purpose of raking the gallery through which they had passed , although the embrasures , through which they might be fired on occasion , were masked on the outside with sods and loose stones . 
Captain Dalgetty , too old a soldier to feel such tremors , had no sooner arrived in the court-yard , than he protested to God , the defences of Sir Duncan 's castle reminded him more of the notable fortress of Spandau , situated in the March of Brandenburg , than of any place whilk it had been his fortune to defend in the course of his travels . 
`` To cut this matter short , '' said Sir Duncan , with an expression of voice and countenance somewhat agitated , `` it is unnecessary for you to tell me , Captain Dalgetty , that a castle may be stormed if it is not valorously defended , or surprised if it is not heedfully watched . 
I trust this poor house of mine will not be found in any of these predicaments , should even Captain Dalgetty himself choose to beleaguer it . '' 
`` I will be your surety , Captain Dalgetty , '' said Sir Duncan , who had again approached him without his observing from whence ; `` and we will go together , and see how your favourite charger is accommodated . '' 
Captain Dalgetty became sensible , at the same time , that the side of the castle to the land was rendered totally inaccessible by a ravine , partly natural and partly scarped with great care and labour , so as to be only passed by a drawbridge . 
This invention , Captain Dalgetty owned , he had not yet witnessed , but observed , `` that it would give him particular delectation to witness the same put to the proof against Ardenvohr , or any other castle of similar strength ; '' observing , `` that so curious an experiment could not but afford the greatest delight to all admirers of the military art . '' 
After this duty had been carefully performed , Captain Dalgetty proposed to return to the castle , observing , it was his intention to spend the time betwixt this and dinner , which , he presumed , would come upon the parade about noon , in burnishing his armour , which having sustained some injury from the sea-air , might , he was afraid , seem discreditable in the eyes of M'Callum More . 
But the onslaught , as he would have termed it , was delayed , until the conclusion of a very long grace , betwixt every section of which Dalgetty handled his knife and fork , as he might have done his musket or pike when going upon action , and as often resigned them unwillingly when the prolix chaplain commenced another clause of his benediction . 
The meal was performed almost in carthusian silence ; for it was none of Captain Dalgetty 's habits to employ his mouth in talking , while it could be more profitably occupied . 
But , when the dishes were removed , and their place supplied by liquors of various sorts , Captain Dalgetty no longer had , himself , the same weighty reasons for silence , and began to tire of that of the rest of the company . 
`` Captain Dalgetty , '' answered Sir Duncan very dryly , `` it is not our Highland usage to debate military points with strangers . 
To this exhortation , which seemed intended for her sole behoof , the lady answered by an inclination of her head , more humble than Captain Dalgetty had yet observed her make . 
True it is , they were persons not to be named as parallel to your ladyship , being such quæ quæstum corporibus faciebant , as we said of Jean Drochiels at Mareschal-College ; the same whom the French term curtisannes , and we in Scottish '' -- `` The lady will spare you the trouble of further exposition , Captain Dalgetty , '' said his host , somewhat sternly ; to which the clergyman added , `` that such discourse better befitted a watch-tower guarded by profane soldiery than the board of an honourable person , and the presence of a lady of quality . '' 
`` Captain Dalgetty , '' said Sir Duncan Campbell , `` to break short this discourse , I must acquaint you , that I have some business to dispatch to-night , in order to enable me to ride with you to-morrow towards Inverary ; and therefore '' -- `` To ride with this person to-morrow ! '' 
-- Captain Dalgetty , I will dispatch a letter for you , explaining to the Marquis of Argyle your character and commission , with which you will please to prepare to travel to Inverary early to-morrow morning . '' 
`` Sir Duncan Campbell , '' said Dalgetty , `` I am doubtless at your discretionary disposal in this matter ; not the less , I pray you to remember the blot which will fall upon your own escutcheon , if you do in any way suffer me , being a commissionate flag of truce , to be circumvented in this matter , whether clam , vi , vel precario ; I do not say by your assent to any wrong done to me , but even through absence of any due care on your part to prevent the same . '' 
Dalgetty saw himself under the necessity of following the hint , though the hour was early ; but , like a skilful general , he availed himself of every instant of delay which circumstances permitted . 
-- `` Also , madam , '' said the soldier , replenishing the quaigh with all possible dispatch , `` I drink to your honourable health , and fulfilment of all your virtuous desires -- and , reverend sir , '' -LRB- not forgetting to fit the action to the words , -RRB- `` I fill this cup to the drowning of all unkindness betwixt you and Captain Dalgetty -- I should say Major -- and , in respect the flagon contains but one cup more , I drink to the health of all honourable cavaliers and brave soldados -- and , the flask being empty , I am ready , Sir Duncan , to attend your functionary or sentinel to my place of private repose . '' 
The same domestic , a sort of chamberlain , who placed this good cheer in his apartment , delivered to Dalgetty a packet , sealed and tied up with a silken thread , according to the custom of the time , addressed with many forms of respect to the High and Mighty Prince , Archibald , Marquis of Argyle , Lord of Lorne , and so forth . 
No sooner was he gone , than the heavy toll of the castle-bell summoned its inhabitants together ; and was answered by the shrill clamour of the females , mixed with the deeper tones of the men , as , talking Earse at the top of their throats , they hurried from different quarters by a long but narrow gallery , which served as a communication to many rooms , and , among others , to that in which Captain Dalgetty was stationed . 
Thus comforting himself in the metaphysical immunities which he deduced from the vigilance of his sentinel , Ritt-master Dalgetty retired to his apartment , where , amid the theoretical calculations of tactics , and the occasional more practical attacks on the flask and pasty , he consumed the evening until it was time to go to repose . 
When Dalgetty mounted his steed , he found himself attended , or perhaps guarded , by five or six Campbells , well armed , commanded by one , who , from the target at his shoulder , and the short cock 's feather in his bonnet , as well as from the state which he took upon himself , claimed the rank of a Dunniewassel , or clansman of superior rank ; and indeed , from his dignity of deportment , could not stand in a more distant degree of relationship to Sir Duncan , than that of tenth or twelfth cousin at farthest . 
Dalgetty did not augur much good from the close watch thus maintained upon his person ; but there was no remedy , for an attempt to escape from his attendants in an impervious and unknown country , would have been little short of insanity . 
Embarked on the bosom of Loch Fine , Captain Dalgetty might have admired one of the grandest scenes which nature affords . 
All these , and every other accompaniment of this noble scene , Captain Dalgetty might have marked , if he had been so minded . 
The boat soon approached the rugged pier , which abutted into the loch from the little town of Inverary , then a rude assemblage of huts , with a very few stone mansions interspersed , stretching upwards from the banks of Loch Fine to the principal gate of the castle , before which a scene presented itself that might easily have quelled a less stout heart , and turned a more delicate stomach , than those of Ritt-master Dugald Dalgetty , titular of Drumthwacket . 
But the spectacle was apparently of too ordinary occurrence to have much interest for the inhabitants at large , who , while they thronged to look at the military figure , the horse of an unusual size , and the burnished panoply of Captain Dalgetty , seemed to bestow no attention whatever on the piteous spectacle which their own market-place afforded . 
He looked towards the gibbet as he spoke ; and the Gael , comprehending his meaning rather by his action than his words , immediately replied , `` Three gentlemen caterans , -- God sain them , '' -LRB- crossing himself -RRB- -- `` twa Sassenach bits o ' bodies , that wadna do something that M'Callum More bade them ; '' and turning from Dalgetty with an air of indifference , away he walked , staying no farther question . 
Dalgetty shrugged his shoulders and proceeded , for Sir Duncan Campbell 's tenth or twelfth cousin had already shown some signs of impatience . 
As Dalgetty looked on this new object of terror , his principal guide suddenly twitched him by the skirt of his jerkin , and having thus attracted his attention , winked and pointed with his finger to a pole fixed on the stockade , which supported a human head , being that , doubtless , of the late sufferer . 
Dalgetty dismounted from his horse at the gateway , and Gustavus was taken from him without his being permitted to attend him to the stable , according to his custom . 
One anteroom was filled with lacqueys , arrayed in brown and yellow , the colours of the family , who , ranged in double file , gazed in silence upon Captain Dalgetty as he passed betwixt their ranks . 
This apartment , the folding doors of which were opened for the reception of Captain Dalgetty , was a long gallery , decorated with tapestry and family portraits , and having a vaulted ceiling of open wood-work , the extreme projections of the beams being richly carved and gilded . 
We have already noticed , that in displaying himself amidst his councillors , his officers of the household , and his train of vassals , allies , and dependents , the Marquis of Argyle probably wished to make an impression on the nervous system of Captain Dugald Dalgetty . 
Captain Dugald Dalgetty had it to boast , that he had sate with princes at feasts made for monarchs , and therefore was not a person to be brow-beat even by the dignity which surrounded M'Callum More . 
Captain Dalgetty did so accordingly , and having made his military congee with easy confidence , he thus accosted the Marquis : `` Give you good morrow , my lord -- or rather I should say , good even ; Beso a usted los manos , as the Spaniard says . '' 
`` That is a fair interrogative , my lord , '' answered Dalgetty , `` which I shall forthwith answer as becomes a cavalier , and that peremptorie , as we used to say at Mareschal-College . '' 
`` I am Dugald Dalgetty , of Drumthwacket , that should be , late Ritt-master in various services , and now Major of I know not what or whose regiment of Irishes ; and I am come with a flag of truce from a high and powerful lord , James Earl of Montrose , and other noble persons now in arms for his Majesty . 
`` My lord , '' replied Captain Dalgetty , `` I am no renegade , though a Major of Irishes , for which I might refer your lordship to the invincible Gustavus Adolphus the Lion of the North , to Bannier , to Oxenstiern , to the warlike Duke of Saxe-Weimar , Tilly , Wallenstein , Piccolomini , and other great captains , both dead and living ; and touching the noble Earl of Montrose , I pray your lordship to peruse these my full powers for treating with you in the name of that right honourable commander . '' 
The Marquis looked slightingly at the signed and sealed paper which Captain Dalgetty handed to him , and , throwing it with contempt upon a table , asked those around him what he deserved who came as the avowed envoy and agent of malignant traitors , in arms against the state ? 
`` I will crave of that honourable cavalier who hath last spoken , '' said Dalgetty , `` to be less hasty in forming his conclusions , and also of your lordship to be cautelous in adopting the same , in respect such threats are to be held out only to base bisognos , and not to men of spirit and action , who are bound to peril themselves as freely in services of this nature , as upon sieges , battles , or onslaughts of any sort . 
`` Reverend sir , '' said Captain Dalgetty , `` in respect of the use to be derived , I forgive you the unsavouriness of your comparison ; and also remit to the gentleman in the red bonnet , the disparaging epithet of fellow which he has discourteously applied to me , who am no way to be distinguished by the same , unless in so far as I have been called fellow-soldier by the great Gustavus Adolphus , the Lion of the North , and other choice commanders , both in Germany and the Low Countries . 
exclaimed Dalgetty , exerting himself with such force as wellnigh to shake off two Highlanders , who for some minutes past had waited the signal to seize him , and kept for that purpose close at his back . 
When Dalgetty had recovered , his first demand was to know over whom he had stumbled . 
`` And what is he now , then , '' said Dalgetty , `` that he thinks it fitting to lie upon the lowest step of the stairs , and clew 'd up like a hurchin , that honourable cavaliers , who chance to be in trouble , may break their noses over him ? '' 
`` Friend , '' said Dalgetty , `` I am sorry for you ; but patienza , as the Spaniard says . 
said Dalgetty ; `` if this be the case , I shall wish for a short turn of the rope , a soldier 's prayer , and a leap from a ladder . 
`` Pri ` thee , friend , let me taste your loaf , '' said Dalgetty ; `` I hope we shall play good comrades while we dwell together in this abominable pit . '' 
Dalgetty did not wait for a second invitation , but , groping out the provisions , began to munch at the stale black oaten loaf with as much heartiness as we have seen him play his part at better viands . 
While Dalgetty ran on in this way , his teeth kept time with his tongue , and he speedily finished the provisions which the benevolence or indifference of his companion in misfortune had abandoned to his voracity . 
I am Dugald Dalgetty of Drumthwacket , and so forth , Major in a regiment of loyal Irishes , and Envoy Extraordinary of a High and Mighty Lord , James Earl of Montrose . 
ejaculated Dalgetty . 
`` I do know that honourable person , '' replied Dalgetty . 
`` Truly I shall desire to carry a less questionable message , '' answered Dalgetty . 
`` Truly , my honest friend , '' said Dalgetty , `` if that is your best recommendation to Sir Duncan 's favour , I would pretermit my pleading thereupon , in respect I have observed that even the animal creation are incensed against those who intromit with their offspring forcibly , much more any rational and Christian creatures , who have had violence done upon their small family . 
said Dalgetty ; `` I have faint remembrance of having heard of that matter . 
`` I bethink me that I have , '' said Dalgetty , `` and that not of an old date . 
`` It may be so , '' said Dalgetty ; `` and every thorough-bred soldier will confess that revenge is a sweet morsel ; but in what manner this story will interest Sir Duncan in your justification , unless it should move him to intercede with the Marquis to change the manner thereof from hanging , or simple suspension , to breaking your limbs on the roue or wheel , with the coulter of a plough , or otherwise putting you do death by torture , surpasses my comprehension . 
`` I presume , Ranald , '' continued Dalgetty , `` that the three pretty fellows whom I saw yonder in the market-place , strung up by the head like rizzer 'd haddocks , claimed some interest in you ? '' 
His fear in some degree communicated itself to Captain Dalgetty , who began to repeat , in a sort of polyglot gibberish , all the exorcisms he had ever heard of , without being able to remember more than a word or two of each . 
While the stranger thus spoke , he withdrew the shade of a dark lantern , by whose feeble light Dalgetty could only discern that the speaker who had thus mysteriously united himself to their company , and mixed in their conversation , was a tall man , dressed in a livery cloak of the Marquis . 
`` It can not be through the keyhole , then , '' said Captain Dalgetty , `` for my corslet would stick in the passage , were it possible that my head-piece could get through . 
`` None at all -- no reason in the creation , '' replied the ready Captain Dalgetty , who forthwith began to unpack the contents of a small basket which the stranger had brought under his cloak , while the Highlander , either in suspicion or disdain , paid no attention to the good cheer . 
`` Then here is to thee once more , Murdoch , '' said Dalgetty , `` drinking to you by your proper name for the better luck sake . 
Meanwhile , Captain Dalgetty , who had attended to every word of this dialogue , was making his own remarks on it in private . 
`` You are a citizen of the world , Captain Dalgetty , '' said Murdoch Campbell , `` and can not be ignorant of our old Scotch proverb , gif-gaf , In old English , ka me ka thee , i. e. mutually serving each other . 
`` Then I should know something of it , '' said Dalgetty ; `` for , except the Turks , there are few powers in Europe whom I have not served ; and I have sometimes thought of taking a turn either with Bethlem Gabor , or with the Janizaries . '' 
`` Just to satisfy your curiosity , '' said Dalgetty , `` and without any farther purpose ? '' 
`` Probably ten thousand , '' said Captain Dalgetty . 
`` Then you know more about them than I do , '' answered Captain Dalgetty , with great composure . 
`` There and thereabouts , '' answered Dalgetty . 
said Captain Dalgetty . 
`` I wish I had seen you , sir , before taking on with him , '' said Dalgetty , appearing to meditate . 
demanded Dalgetty . 
continued Dalgetty . 
`` I never heard so much good of him before , '' said Dalgetty ; `` you must know the Marquis well , -- or rather you must be the Marquis himself ! 
The attack which Dalgetty made upon Argyle 's person was so sudden and unexpected , that he easily prostrated him on the floor of the dungeon , and held him down with one hand , while his right , grasping the Marquis 's throat , was ready to strangle him on the slightest attempt to call for assistance . 
`` Not for your kindness , my lord , '' replied Dalgetty : `` but first , to teach your lordship the jusgentium towards cavaliers who come to you under safe-conduct ; and secondly , to warn you of the danger of proposing dishonourable terms to any worthy soldado , in order to tempt him to become false to his standard during the term of his service . '' 
Dalgetty maintained his gripe upon the Marquis 's throat , compressing it a little , while he asked questions , and relaxing it so far as to give him the power of answering them . 
`` It were too much honour for the like of me , '' said Dalgetty ; `` your lordship shall remain under charge of mine honest friend Ranald MacEagh ; therefore , prithee let me drag you within reach of his chain . 
Thus resigning the charge of the Marquis to his new confederate , Dalgetty pressed the spring , by which the secret door flew open , though so well were its hinges polished and oiled , that it made not the slightest noise in revolving . 
`` He of the iron-garment , '' said Dalgetty , entering , `` is bounden unto you , MacEagh , and this noble lord shall be bounden also ; but first he must fill up this passport with the names of Major Dugald Dalgetty and his guide , or he is like to have a passport to another world . '' 
`` And now , Ranald , '' said Dalgetty , `` strip thy upper garment -- thy plaid I mean , Ranald , and in it will I muffle the M'Callum More , and make of him , for the time , a Child of the Mist ; -- Nay , I must bring it over your head , my lord , so as to secure us against your mistimed clamour . 
`` Take the livery-coat of that noble prisoner , '' said Captain Dalgetty ; `` put it on , and follow close at my heels . '' 
`` Hold , while you live , '' whispered Dalgetty , laying hold on him . 
This being the case , Captain Dalgetty ventured to ensconce himself in the gallery , of which he carefully secured the door . 
To judge from the haste with which they dispersed , the domestics of the Marquis were scarce more pleased with their late occupation than the anxious Captain Dalgetty ; indeed , many of them being Highlandmen , had the excuse of not understanding a single word which the clergyman spoke , although they gave their attendance on his doctrine by the special order of M'Callum More , and would have done so had the preacher been a Turkish Imaum . 
Bold as he was , Dalgetty hesitated what he ought to do . 
At length , whispering Ranald , who watched all his motions , to follow him and preserve his countenance , Captain Dalgetty , with a very composed air , descended a flight of steps which led from the gallery into the body of the chapel . 
`` It pleased the honourable Marquis , '' said Dalgetty , modestly , `` to grace me with a seat in his own gallery . '' 
`` Lecture or homily , '' said Dalgetty , `` it was , as the High Germans say , ganz fortre flich ; and I could not leave this place without testifying unto you what inward emotions I have undergone during your edifying prelection ; and how I am touched to the quick , that I should yesterday , during the refection , have seemed to infringe on the respect due to such a person as yourself . '' 
`` It is always my custom to do so , learned sir , '' answered Dalgetty ; `` for in the service of the immortal Gustavus -- but I detain you from your meditations , '' -- his desire to speak of the King of Sweden being for once overpowered by the necessity of his circumstances . 
In fact , so effectually did the chaplain exert himself in behalf of so excellent a judge of composition , that while Dalgetty was parleying with the sentinels at the drawbridge , showing his passport , and giving the watchword , a servant brought him his horse , ready saddled for the journey . 
Dalgetty rode slowly through the town of Inverary , the outlaw attending upon him like a footpage at his horse 's shoulder . 
Dalgetty continued his way out of the town , uncertain whether he should try to seize or hire a boat and cross the lake , or plunge into the woods , and there conceal himself from pursuit . 
`` And that , honest comrade , '' answered Dalgetty , `` is precisely the question which I can not answer you . 
said Dalgetty . 
replied Dalgetty ; `` then have on with thee ; for of a surety I shall never save the ship by my own pilotage . '' 
The outlaw accordingly led the way into the wood , by which the castle is surrounded for several miles , walking with so much dispatch as kept Gustavus at a round trot , and taking such a number of cross cuts and turns , that Captain Dalgetty speedily lost all idea where he might be , and all knowledge of the points of the compass . 
`` What the foul fiend , '' said Dalgetty , `` is to be done here ? 
`` And that is true too , mine honest friend , '' sighed Dalgetty ; `` yet if you knew but the value of Gustavus , and the things we two have done and suffered together -- See , he turns back to look at me ! 
To follow his guide was no easy matter , and soon required more agility than Captain Dalgetty could master . 
Huge stones , over which they scrambled , -- thickets of thorn and brambles , through which they had to drag themselves , -- rocks which were to be climbed on the one side with much labour and pain , for the purpose of an equally precarious descent upon the other ; all these , and many such interruptions , were surmounted by the light-footed and half-naked mountaineer with an ease and velocity which excited the surprise and envy of Captain Dalgetty , who , encumbered by his head-piece , corslet , and other armour , not to mention his ponderous jack-boots , found himself at length so much exhausted by fatigue , and the difficulties of the road , that he sate down upon a stone in order to recover his breath , while he explained to Ranald MacEagh the difference betwixt travelling expeditus and impeditus , as these two military phrases were understood at Mareschal-College , Aberdeen . 
Dalgetty could spy nothing , for evening was closing fast , and they were at the bottom of a dark ravine . 
`` Truly , Ranald , my trusty friend , '' said Dalgetty , `` I will not deny that the case may be soon my own ; for I am so forfoughen , -LRB- being , as I explained to you , impeditus , for had I been expeditus , I mind not pedestrian exercise the flourish of a fife , -RRB- that I think I had better ensconce myself in one of these bushes , and even lie quiet there to abide what fortune God shall send me . 
Dragging along his ponderous boots , encumbered with thigh-pieces , gauntlets , corslet , and back-piece , not to mention the buff jerkin which he wore under all these arms , talking of his former exploits the whole way , though Ranald paid not the slightest attention to him , Captain Dalgetty contrived to follow his guide a considerable space farther , when the deep-mouthed baying of a hound was heard coming down the wind , as if opening on the scent of its prey . 
Mending their pace , they reached the top , where the moon , which had now risen bright and clear , showed to Dalgetty a party of ten or twelve Highlanders , and about as many women and children , by whom Ranald MacEagh was received with such transports of joy , as made his companion easily sensible that those by whom he was surrounded , must of course be Children of the Mist . 
Ranald spoke anxiously and hastily to the children of his tribe , and the men came one by one to shake hands with Dalgetty , while the women , clamorous in their gratitude , pressed round to kiss even the hem of his garment . 
exclaimed Dalgetty ; `` ha ! 
that Dugald Dalgetty , of Drumthwacket , should live to see men fight with bows and arrows ! 
-- My service and thanks to you , '' he continued , addressing a mountaineer who offered him a bow ; `` Dugald Dalgetty may say of himself , as he learned at Mareschal-College , Non eget Mauri jaculis , neque arcu , Nec venenatis gravida sagittis , Fusce , pharetra ; whilk is to say '' -- Ranald MacEagh a second time imposed silence on the talkative commander as before , by pulling his sleeve , and pointing down the pass . 
MacEagh , in the meantime , proposed to Captain Dalgetty to disencumber himself of his armour , and gave him to understand that the women should transport it to a place of safety . 
`` I crave your pardon , sir , '' said Dalgetty , `` such is not the rule of our foreign service ; in respect I remember the regiment of Finland cuirassiers reprimanded , and their kettle-drums taken from them , by the immortal Gustavus , because they had assumed the permission to march without their corslets , and to leave them with the baggage . 
To rid the Captain of his cumbrous greaves , and case his feet in a pair of brogues made out of deerskin , which a Highlander stripped off for his accommodation , was the work of a minute , and Dalgetty found himself much lightened by the exchange . 
All was then dead silence ; for , loquacious as he was on other occasions , Captain Dalgetty knew well the necessity of an ambush keeping itself under covert . 
The outline was so distinctly marked , that Captain Dalgetty could discover not only the person of a Highlander , but the long gun which he carried in his hand , and the plume of feathers which decorated his bonnet . 
Even Captain Dalgetty 's military prudence did not prevent his rising up , and calling out to Ranald , more loud than prudence warranted , `` Carocco , comrade , as the Spaniard says ! 
But Dalgetty detained him , grasping a firm hold of his plaid . 
-- `` I know not how this matter may end -- but I request you will inform Montrose , that I died like a follower of the immortal Gustavus -- and I pray you , take heed how you quit your present strength , even for the purpose of pursuing the enemy , if you gain any advantage -- and -- and '' -- Here Dalgetty 's breath and eyesight began to fail him through loss of blood , and MacEagh , availing himself of this circumstance , extricated from his grasp the end of his own mantle , and substituted that of a female , by which the Captain held stoutly , thereby securing , as he conceived , the outlaw 's attention to the military instructions which he continued to pour forth while he had any breath to utter them , though they became gradually more and more incoherent -- `` And , comrade , you will be sure to keep your musketeers in advance of your stand of pikes , Lochaber-axes , and two-handed swords -- Stand fast , dragoons , on the left flank ! 
We must now leave , with whatever regret , the valiant Captain Dalgetty , to recover of his wounds or otherwise as fate shall determine , in order briefly to trace the military operations of Montrose , worthy as they are of a more important page , and a better historian . 
`` Truly , my noble lord , '' said Dalgetty , `` I have no desire that my return should put any stop to so proper and becoming an intention ; verily it is in no shape in the Earl of Argyle 's favour or mercy that I now stand before you , and I shall be no intercessor for him . 
But my escape is , under Heaven , and the excellent dexterity which , as an old and accomplished cavalier , I displayed in effecting the same , -- I say , under these , it is owing to the assistance of this old Highlander , whom I venture to recommend to your lordship 's special favour , as the instrument of saving your lordship 's to command , Dugald Dalgetty of Drumthwacket . '' 
said Dalgetty ; `` I trust your lordship will permit me to be surprised -- bows and arrows ! 
Montrose 's first enquiry respected the embassy to Inverary ; and he listened with attention to Dalgetty 's reply , notwithstanding the prolixity of the Major 's narrative . 
It required an effort from the Marquis to maintain his attention ; but no one better knew , that where information is to be derived from the report of such agents as Dalgetty , it can only be obtained by suffering them to tell their story in their own way . 
Whatever might be Dalgetty 's personal conceit , he understood his business sufficiently to guess at Montrose 's meaning . 
`` So please your Excellency , '' answered Dalgetty , `` during the weeks that I remained with them for cure of my wound , they were repeatedly obliged to shift their quarters , in respect of Argyle 's repeated attempts to repossess himself of the person of an officer who was honoured with your Excellency 's confidence ; so that I had occasion to admire the singular dexterity and knowledge of the face of the country with which they alternately achieved their retreat and their advance ; and when , at length , I was able to repair to your Excellency 's standard , this honest simple creature , Ranald MacEagh , guided me by paths which my steed Gustavus -LRB- which your lordship may remember -RRB- trode with perfect safety , so that I said to myself , that where guides , spies , or intelligencers , were required in a Highland campaign in that western country , more expert persons than he and his attendants could not possibly be desired . '' 
`` He is an outlaw and robber by profession , something also of a homicide or murderer , '' answered Dalgetty ; `` and by name , called Ranald MacEagh ; whilk signifies , Ranald , the Son of the Mist . '' 
You understand , Dalgetty , that their presence here , and the purpose for which we employ them , is a secret between you and me ? '' 
`` Your Excellency need not fear that , '' answered Dalgetty ; `` these Highland imps , from the moment they chip the shell '' -- `` Well , '' interrupted Montrose , `` that boy shall be pledge for the fidelity of his parent , and if he prove faithful , the child 's preferment shall be his reward . 
repeated Dalgetty , `` is she following the campaign ? '' 
To meet the exigence of the moment , a considerable army was raised under General Baillie , a Presbyterian officer of skill and fidelity , with whom was joined in command the celebrated Sir John Urrie , a soldier of fortune like Dalgetty , who had already changed sides twice during the Civil War , and was destined to turn his coat a third time before it was ended . 
Know that , tired with the task imposed upon me of accompanying that unhappy Dalgetty and his handful of horse , who detained me for hours on the march at the pace of a crippled badger , I made a stretch of four miles with six of my people in the direction of Inverlochy , and there met with Ian of Glenroy , who had been out for intelligence . 
On the present occasion , Dalgetty joyfully acquiesced in the proposal of marching back and confronting Argyle , which he compared to the valiant resolution of the great Gustavus , who moved against the Duke of Bavaria , and enriched his troops by the plunder of that fertile country , although menaced from the northward by the large army which Wallenstein had assembled in Bohemia . 
`` They are going , '' said Dalgetty , `` to put their horses out of danger , like prudent cavaliers . 
With them was the royal standard , and Montrose himself ; and on the flanks were about fifty horse , under Dalgetty , which by wonderful exertions had been kept in some sort fit for service . 
The Marquis of Montrose , in the meanwhile , availing himself of some scattered birch trees , as well as of the smoke produced by the close fire of the Irish musketry , which concealed the operation , called upon Dalgetty to follow him with the horse , and wheeling round so as to gain the right flank and even the rear of the enemy , he commanded his six trumpets to sound the charge . 
But , far from quitting his point , Dalgetty stept across the fallen body of MacEagh , and gave Allan to understand , that if he called himself a tiger , he was likely , at present , to find a lion in his path . 
The strife betwixt Allan and MacEagh had been unnoticed by the stragglers around , for the person of the latter was known to few of Montrose 's followers ; but the scuffle betwixt Dalgetty and him , both so well known , attracted instant attention ; and fortunately , among others , that of Montrose himself , who had come for the purpose of gathering together his small body of horse , and following the pursuit down Loch-Eil . 
Aware of the fatal consequences of dissension in his little army , he pushed his horse up to the spot , and seeing MacEagh on the ground , and Dalgetty in the attitude of protecting him against M'Aulay , his quick apprehension instantly caught the cause of quarrel , and as instantly devised means to stop it . 
`` It is not my fault , so please your Excellency , '' said Dalgetty . 
said Dalgetty ; `` I have not learned to obey that word of command , saving when it is given from the pulpit . 
When Dalgetty reluctantly obeyed , Montrose struck him lightly on the neck with the flat of his sword , saying , -- `` In reward of the gallant service of this day , and in the name and authority of our Sovereign , King Charles , I dub thee knight ; be brave , loyal , and fortunate . 
And now , Sir Dugald Dalgetty , to your duty . 
Mount , then , Sir Dugald , and do your duty . '' 
With many acknowledgments , Sir Dugald mounted the steed so liberally bestowed upon him ; and only beseeching his Excellency to remember that MacEagh was under his safe-conduct , immediately began to execute the orders assigned to him , with great zeal and alacrity . 
`` And you , Allan M'Aulay , '' said Montrose , addressing the Highlander , who , leaning his swordpoint on the ground , had regarded the ceremony of his antagonist 's knighthood with a sneer of sullen scorn , -- `` you , who are superior to the ordinary men led by the paltry motives of plunder , and pay , and personal distinction , -- you , whose deep knowledge renders you so valuable a counsellor , -- is it you whom I find striving with a man like Dalgetty , for the privilege of trampling the remains of life out of so contemptible an enemy as lies there ? 
He considered it as of the last consequence , in this moment of enthusiasm and exalted passion , to remove Allan from the camp for a few days , that he might provide , as his honour required , for the safety of those who had acted as his guides , when he trusted the Seer 's quarrel with Dalgetty might be easily made up . 
`` And well he deserves to be so , '' said Sir Dugald Dalgetty , who came up to them at that moment with a prodigious addition of acquired importance , `` since he shot my good horse at the time that I was offering him honourable quarter , which , I must needs say , was done more like an ignorant Highland cateran , who has not sense enough to erect a sconce for the protection of his old hurley-house of a castle , than like a soldier of worth and quality . '' 
`` For shame , Sir Dugald ! '' 
`` Were there an academy for the education of horses to be annexed to the Mareschal-College of Aberdeen , Sir Dugald Dalgetty alone should fill the chair . '' 
said the Marquis , who did not know how far Sir Dugald 's enthusiasm might lead him ; `` consider , our brave fellows themselves will have but a hasty burial . '' 
`` Your Excellency will pardon me , '' said Dalgetty ; `` my purpose is less romantic . 
He was now turning away , when the Marquis called after him , -- `` As you are not likely to be anticipated in this act of kindness , Sir Dugald , to your old friend and companion , I trust , '' said the Marquis , `` you will first assist me , and our principal friends , to discuss some of Argyle 's good cheer , of which we have found abundance in the Castle . '' 
`` Most willingly , please your Excellency , '' said Sir Dugald ; `` as meat and mass never hinder work . 
-- This is a point , Sir Dugald , '' said he , gravely addressing him , `` which I shall reserve for his Majesty 's express consideration ; in my camp , all must be upon equality , like the Knights of the Round Table ; and take their places as soldiers should , upon the principle of , -- first come , first served . '' 
`` Then I shall take care , '' said Menteith , apart to the Marquis , `` that Don Dugald is not first in place to-day . 
-- Sir Dugald , '' added he , raising his voice , `` as you say your wardrobe is out of repair , had you not better go to the enemy 's baggage yonder , over which there is a guard placed ? 
He may be punctilious concerning his reputation , and brave in the execution of his duty , but it is only because without these qualities he can not rise in the service ; -- nay , his very benevolence is selfish ; he may defend his companion while he can keep his feet , but the instant he is down , Sir Dugald will be as ready to ease him of his purse , as he is to convert the skin of Gustavus into a buff jerkin . '' 
`` My dear Menteith , '' said Montrose , very kindly , `` were you one of the gay cavaliers of Whitehall , who are , in their way , as great self-seekers as our friend Dalgetty , should I need to plague you with enquiring into such an amourette as this ? 
But Annot had no time to dwell upon her fears , being interrupted by the entrance of Sir Dugald Dalgetty . 
`` If you would have the goodness to explain , '' said Annot , too sick at heart to be amused by Sir Dugald 's airs of pedantic gallantry . 
`` Merely , '' replied Sir Dugald , `` that you will visit my brother knight , and let your maiden bring some medicaments for his wound , which threatens to be what the learned call a damnum fatale . '' 
Sir Dugald with great form ushered Annot Lyle to the chamber of her patient , in which , to her surprise , she found Lord Menteith . 
As for Sir Dugald , he returned to a large outhouse , on the floor of which , among other wounded men , was deposited the person of Ranald of the Mist . 
`` A most improper vaunt , '' said Sir Dugald ; `` but I owe you some favours , Ranald , and therefore shall let it pass . '' 
`` Friend Ranald , '' answered Dalgetty , `` I have read of these boons in silly story-books , whereby simple knights were drawn into engagements to their great prejudice ; wherefore , Ranald , the more prudent knights of this day never promise any thing until they know that they may keep their word anent the premises , without any displeasure or incommodement to themselves . 
`` It is something out of the order of due precedence , '' said Dalgetty , `` to carry a wounded outlaw into the presence of a knight ; knighthood having been of yore , and being , in some respects , still , the highest military grade , independent always of commissioned officers , who rank according to their patents ; nevertheless , as your boon , as you call it , is so slight , I shall not deny compliance with the same . '' 
Sir Dugald here interposed , and spoke of Ranald 's services as a guide , and his own pledge for his safety ; but the high harsh tones of the outlaw drowned his voice . 
Sir Dugald Dalgetty will give me his attendance and assistance . '' 
`` With pleasure , my lord , '' answered Sir Dugald . 
Upon hearing this frank declaration , which was made as they left the apartment with the wounded man , Lord Menteith darted upon Dalgetty a look of extreme anger and disdain , to which the self-conceit of the worthy commander rendered him totally insensible . 
Sir Dugald Dalgetty , who was present during the latter part of this scene , was very little edified by the conduct of MacEagh upon the occasion . 
`` I believe , '' said Dalgetty , `` my friend Ranald will be found in his heart to be little better than a heathen . '' 
And he renewed his proposal to procure him the assistance of Dr Wisheart , Montrose 's military chaplain ; `` a man , '' said Sir Dugald , `` very clever in his exercise , and who will do execution on your sins in less time than I could smoke a pipe of tobacco . '' 
`` Very frequently , when I served in Germany , '' replied Sir Dugald . 
A more willing guest at the bridal ceremony , certainly a more willing attendant at the marriage feast , was to be expected in Sir Dugald Dalgetty , whom Montrose resolved to invite , as having been a confident to the circumstances which preceded it . 
But even Sir Dugald hesitated , looked on the elbows of his doublet , and the knees of his leather breeches , and mumbled out a sort of reluctant acquiescence in the invitation , providing he should find it possible , after consulting with the noble bridegroom . 
Montrose was somewhat surprised , but scorning to testify displeasure , he left Sir Dugald to pursue his own course . 
Sir Dugald entered , and paid his compliments , with a very grave face , upon his approaching happiness , which , he said , `` he was very sorry he was prevented from witnessing . '' 
In Menteith 's state of mind , disposed to be pleased with every thing , and every body , the grave complaint of Sir Dugald furnished additional amusement . 
Sir Dugald made the necessary apologies -- would not by any means deprive -- and so forth , until it happily occurred to him that it was much more according to military rule that the Earl should be married in his back and breast-pieces , which dress he had seen the bridegroom wear at the union of Prince Leo of Wittlesbach with the youngest daughter of old George Frederick , of Saxony , under the auspices of the gallant Gustavus Adolphus , the Lion of the North , and so forth . 
Dalgetty followed them to the water 's edge , reminding Menteith of the necessity of erecting a sconce on Drumsnab to cover his lady 's newly-acquired inheritance . 
Our dramatis personæ have been so limited , that , excepting Montrose , whose expolits and fate are the theme of history , we have only to mention Sir Dugald Dalgetty . 
Several Lowland officers , in the service of the Covenanters , interceded for Dalgetty on this occasion , representing him as a person whose skill would be useful in their army , and who would be readily induced to change his service . 
But on this point they found Sir Dugald unexpectedly obstinate . 
Sir Dugald is supposed to have survived the Revolution , as traditions of no very distant date represent him as cruizing about in that country , very old , very deaf , and very full of interminable stories about the immortal Gustavus Adolphus , the Lion of the North , and the bulwark of the Protestant Faith . 
