Where there was but one , there are now two ; where there was but John , there are now John and Jesus , for that is the name of him who has now joined him . 
It was about the ninth hour of the day when , as John was baptizing in the stream , his kinsman , Jesus from Nazareth , came , among others , asking to be baptized also . 
For they affirm that , when John 's unwillingness was overcome by the earnest request or command of Jesus , and they had gone into the river , and while the Baptist poured on the water of purification , a great light suddenly shone on all , beyond the brightness of the day , as if from the opened heavens , and at the same time a voice , not as the voice of a man , declaring him the Son of God . 
But while they questioned among themselves , Jesus disappeared from the midst of them , and has not since been found . '' 
Jesus may be he . '' 
But , '' continued the Ruler , turning to Onias , `` whence came this Jesus ? 
-- you have told us whither he is gone , -- for in Beth-Harem some say one thing , and some another . 
One affirms he is from Judea near Hebron , because he is a kinsman of John ; others that he is from Bethlehem , -- and others from Galilee . '' 
`` The last are right , '' answered Onias , `` he is of Galilee . '' 
`` He were better from some other part of the land , '' said Shammai , `` for his own sake . '' 
`` He is not only from Galilee , '' continued Onias , `` but from Nazareth in Galilee . '' 
`` Ha , ha , '' laughed Zadok , `` prosperity await him ! 
`` The rumor concerning the origin at Bethlehem comes , '' said Onias , `` doubtless from this , that he was born there at what time his parents were gone up to the enrolment in the days of Quirinius ; for this Jesus , -- unless indeed all be false , -- is he who was hailed King of the Jews by the Magians of Arabia , in the reign of Herod the Great ; of whose strange birth all Israel heard , but afterward heard no more . '' 
Yet we hear that the disciples of John contend , that the voice pointed to their master as the Son of God , rather than Jesus ; the name of neither having been pronounced . '' 
And this notwithstanding also the plainness with which the Baptist hath announced Jesus as a Prophet above all , even He who should come . '' 
But what can we yet say of Jesus ? 
It must reasonably give pause to us and to all , that Jesus has already withdrawn from sight , plunging immediately into the secret places of the mountain deserts . 
`` If Jesus is the Son of David , we shall soon behold him on his throne ; that will show him . '' 
`` And if he is Beelzebub 's minister , as he seemeth , by this seeking the desert places , we shall see him no more ; he hath already gone back to his master ; '' cried Zadok 's shrieking voice . 
Theday following that on which I last wrote , I sought the streets of Beth-Harem , both that I might learn what more there was to be known concerning Jesus , and that I might visit again the leper and his daughter , whom I had seen before my journey to Machærus , but whom since that period I had committed to the care of Judith . 
John and Jesus were the names upon the lips of all . 
As I tasted his grapes , some of which I desired to purchase for the leper and his daughter , and listened to those who were talking , the countryman addressed me , saying , `` what think you , Sir ; shall we hear anything more of this Jesus of Bethabara ? '' 
`` Not much , in truth , '' he replied , `` is known of Jesus ; but of John much is known , and he has borne his testimony to Jesus ; and if any one should be believed , surely it is John , whom all who know , know to be honest . '' 
But how should he know anything of Jesus ? '' 
since we know not as yet , that Jesus is he , and surely the manner of his appearing makes not much for him . '' 
He indeed appears as other men , so we are told , but what say you to the voice , and the heavens opened ? 
`` If those things , '' I answered , `` indeed happened as has been related , they do truly declare that God is with Jesus or John , whichever was pointed out by the voice , but surely they make neither to be the Messiah . '' 
and so would I say are those of Jesus , but that he has already betaken himself back again to his master . 
They will say some just such thing of Jesus , I warrant you , should he prove what we hope . 
But they will truly both fare ill , if Zadok and such as he become inflamed against them . 
They say already , that he has done much to set Herod against John , reporting carefully whatever he says against either him , or Herodias . 
None , so far as I could learn , save a few violent as Zadok , were disposed to deny the reality of the voice and the heavenly light at the Baptism of Jesus ; and few , putting together with that , what was now generally received , that Jesus is the same whose birth was marked by the like prodigies many years ago , hesitate to believe that he is indeed the promised and expected Deliverer . 
His concealment since the baptism they explain some one way and some another , but it hinders not the current of their joy . 
They doubt not he will soon reappear and show himself more fully . 
The world is troubled about Pilate and Herod , Jesus and John ; but it all passes by me as the air which I can not hear or see . '' 
This body is our house , and neither John nor Jesus can shut us out . 
Under King John or King Jesus , I may rise to power , and when I do , thou shalt . 
Nothing more , however , could I learn in which trust could be placed , save that by those who this day had come from thence had confirmed what was said at first by Onias , that Jesus had disappeared among the fastnesses of the wilderness to the east of the Jordan , and had been seen by none since the baptism . 
Nothing in addition for many days has been heard of Jesus , and the people grow despondent . 
But while the eyes and ears of men are as they were made , and devils do not enter us to pervert what the senses would convey , then doubtless , they say , that took place which has been affirmed , whether or not Jesus is heard of again . 
While Jesus , for reasons which then were not understood , but which have since been declared , thus withdrew himself from the scene where he had first made himself known , and from the great length of the time , during which he remained hidden from the eyes and the knowledge of the people , it was believed by many that he would not return , Herod again deemed it a favorable time to continue the preparations he had made , and strengthen his cause among the people . 
The Tetrarch was sure that no more would ever be heard of Jesus ; and although he would not with clearness declare all that he had done , yet he darkly shadowed forth in obscure phrases , which he loves to use , that an emissary from him had sought and found Jesus during his retreat into the wilderness , and had become convinced that he was not what he was at first believed to be , and that nothing need be feared or hoped from him . 
The proffer of honor and wealth and power , even to that of half the kingdom , nay , the supreme power , which was freely made if he would join with Herod , -- made in the belief that he was a prophet and endowed with powers more than human , -- he would not accept ; and doubtless because he did not in truth possess such powers , for upon being earnestly pressed to give some proof thereof , he complied not , but steadfastly refused . 
These reasonings of Herod , however , especially taken together with the fact , that a messenger of his had found Jesus and conversed with him , only served to convince Onias and the rest of his firmest adherents , that it were wiser to delay the contemplated movements yet a little longer . 
His inquiries had settled what before all were doubtful about , namely , that Jesus was still alive and not very remote . 
It was clear that none would consent to resume their undertaking until he had been again seen , and his character and purposes determined . 
He was confident in his own strength , and impatient of restraint and delay . 
But by much persuasion he was made to renounce all farther purpose of action , till the minds of the people should be quieted by the confirmation or defeat of their hopes . 
Atlength , my mother , after long waiting , and when the people had nearly abandoned all hope of what they desired , Jesus hath again appeared , not as before on the Jordan but far from us , in Galilee . 
At the same time that this news has been brought to our ears , we are told also of astonishing miracles which he has wrought in the towns and villages of that quarter . 
Every day and every hour are reports brought to our ears of new wonders he has done , and every day and hour doth the joy of the people rise higher and higher . 
Great numbers not patient enough to wait for the time when Jesus shall visit other parts of the country , and doubtless among others , the valley of the Jordan , have flocked to Galilee that they may at once remove their doubts , or invigorate their faith by themselves seeing and hearing the new prophet . 
In the mean time we remain steadfast to him who seems well able to accomplish all the objects , or the greatest which are expected of that personage ; nor do we think it an event to be looked for from present appearances , that Jesus will show himself more than a prophet ; yet we can not tell . 
As surely as the presence of God was manifested of old by Moses and Elijah , so surely is it now , by Jesus . 
Judith is made happy beyond all others , as it seems to me by this coming of Jesus , and by the things we every day hear concerning him and his teachings and his works . 
She will not doubt that he will prove all we can desire , and hardly can she be restrained from journeying to Galilee , that she may herself hear , see , and judge . 
`` Can you , '' asked Judith , `` see none in Jesus ? 
Surely the seal of Jehovah is upon him . '' 
`` I know not at present , '' I replied , `` what nor who he is , nor what he will prove . 
I can not at once , nor without better reasons than can as yet be given , transfer it to Jesus . '' 
`` Of Jesus you mean . '' 
`` Yes , of Jesus . '' 
It is not impossible that Jesus may be the Christ . 
`` Surely , '' replied Shammai , `` it is not certain that he now is , or that he will be ; yet is there such a hope , as Israel was never before permitted to entertain , and in that hope let all be glad who will . 
I had just said to Julian as you ascended and joined us , that it was no small token to us , that this Jesus of Galilee is the fulfilment of our hope , in that his birth was so announced , that at his baptism the very heavens were opened , and the voice of Jehovah , or of his angel was heard , and that he hath power to do the works which are filling the land with astonishment . 
Who else should he be ? '' 
`` Could the voice of the whole land of Judea this moment be heard , '' replied Shammai , `` it would say with thee , lady , who else should he be ? 
The people are waiting and ready to hail him king , prophet , deliverer . 
`` And it may not be denied that thus far Jesus has shown himself possessed of the wisdom of a prophet , and of the holiness of a priest ; but no signs has he given of the greatness of a prince . '' 
`` True , daughter , there are those who pretend to do wonders like these of Jesus , but a wise man receives them not . 
His works show God to be with this Jesus of Nazareth , but they show him not to be the Christ . '' 
Works great as these of Jesus can Pharez do , and many a Magian and Egyptian besides . 
`` The works of Jesus , '' said Judith , `` are not like these . '' 
They who are sick he restores ; they who are blind he causes to see ; those whose limbs are withered and dead he makes whole as before , who all live and are among us to bear testimony to what has been done , as well as others who stood by and were witnesses of such deeds . 
show him to be of God . '' 
If ever the God of our nation has appeared for us , if he indeed thundered with his voice at Sinai , or gave his spirit to Moses and Elias , then has he given it also unto Jesus . 
He is a prophet mighty in his power , even like unto them . 
What he is more than this , we know not yet ; but we shall know soon . 
But we may hope that he shall prove a redeemer for Israel . 
But we know well that upon Herod rests no spirit like unto this that manifests itself in Jesus . 
He can not in this be what Jesus is , while Jesus can be what Herod is , and more . 
Let Jesus , therefore , declare himself Messiah , and use his powers to achieve Messiah 's work , and we then muster under his banner , as under one whom God himself hath anointed . 
I look to Jesus with hope , as doth every one in Israel whose heart is right before God , and I wait to see what a few more days or weeks shall bring forth . '' 
When Jesus shall declare himself , and put forth his powers in the great work God shall have given him to do , will it be time enough to own him Christ . 
`` Yea , '' said Zadok , `` it is not more hours than one can easily reckon up , that this same people deemed John some great one , and now he is forsaken for Jesus . 
And to-morrow let a third arise , and Jesus will be forsaken in turn . '' 
But in respect of what thou hast said of John , as I learn , his disciples abandon him not , but cleave to him , holding him greater and better than Jesus . '' 
`` I know not how his followers judge either of him or Jesus , '' replied the Pharisee , `` but the people , of whom we were speaking , while but now they thronged John wheresoever he moved , now speak the truth of him , the truth at first , as well as the truth now , and say that he is as one beside himself , seeing that he dwells apart in the manner he does , feeds upon the wild fruits and berries of the wilderness , and for his clothing wears the garments of a beggar . 
Doubt not that presently they shall say yet worse things of Jesus ; nay , that they do already , marvelling if he can be a Son of God who eats and drinks as others do , consorts with publicans and sinners , and by the power of God makes wine of water , that he and others with him may drink at will . '' 
Thou wouldst not take as justly exact a rumor concerning John from the lips of Herod , nor can we any more one from Zadok concerning Jesus . '' 
`` We shall see , '' replied the Priest , `` time will show ; only , as I think , there will be found to be even less of Christ in Jesus , than in John ; but in neither , what should throw a stumbling block so big as a midge 's wing in the way of Antipas . '' 
If it be in thy servant Jesus and in no other , or in John and no other , or in Herod and no other , cause that he quickly array himself in his royal robes , and crown himself with his royal diadem , and sit upon the throne of his fathers , so that we may know him , and that unto him there shall be a gathering of the people . 
You say that little heed is given among our people in Rome to the rumors which have reached it of Jesus , and you yourself show not by your replies , that your own concern is much deeper . 
I do not ; seeing that the accounts which have reached you of Jesus , are none of them such as agree with the prevailing hopes of the expected deliverer . 
Jesus having given no sign by which to judge him , save his miracles , I marvel not at all that you in Rome at once rank him with those who , by the arts of magic , and credulity on the part of the multitude , have a thousand times deluded the nation . 
The wonders which are ascribed to Jesus cause him naturally , where there is no opportunity of a careful examination and comparison , to be put but on a level with sorcerers and exorcists , of whom the world is full . 
For the works of a wonderful kind , which are related of Jesus , are in their nature , and the manner in which they are performed , so different from such as are done by magicians , that all who have witnessed them declare with one voice , they can be performed by no other power than that of God . 
`` It is no dream , '' said his wife , `` that the words of Jesus are like those of no other , that he speaks as none of the priests or scribes ever do , and that he performs wonders which those only can whom God inspires , and by his life and virtues fills those who draw near with an awe and a love , such as are felt toward no other . '' 
I was rejoiced to meet with one who had both seen and heard Jesus , and eagerly approached her to obtain some better knowledge , than I had been able as yet to find access to , concerning him , when Chuza exclaimed , -- `` See ! 
I looked as he directed , and saw the boat of many banks of oars making rapidly toward the quay . 
I asked if he himself had seen Jesus , so as to form any judgment concerning him . 
But Jesus having been a long time among them , the blindness is now in part removed ; and him whom so hastily they took for a great one they already begin to doubt . '' 
`` Ah , it is just as I have said , '' cried Herod ; `` I knew it would be with him as with John . 
They thronged the Baptist awhile -- now he is forsaken save by a few for Jesus , and to-morrow Jesus will in turn be abandoned . 
`` Ah , '' said Jaddua , `` the multitude is easily led ; feed them , only feed them , which Jesus does , and beside that please their love of wonders , and their friendship is secured . 
Doubtless the most part for such reasons do still believe , and so throng him . 
They see before them , indeed , in Jesus , one whom they can not fully comprehend or explain , but they see not the Christ . '' 
`` Truly , '' said the Tetrarch , `` I can discover in this Jesus of Nazareth , from all the reports that reach my ear , no qualities or purposes that should cause hesitation or delay in our enterprise . 
I fear not Jesus , nor any power he may win over the people , seeing the path he hath chosen to travel . 
He , I say , may be let alone ; yet the insolence of John well deserveth punishment ; and of his purposes there may be with reason more apprehension . 
I need not relate , my mother , the conversations which now ensued upon all the subjects connected with the enterprise of Herod , the obstructions thrown in his way by the appearance of John and Jesus , and the probabilities concerning the success of Sejanus in Rome , and the aid to be derived from him . 
Of all the impediments , however , which oppose his movement , it is easy to see , notwithstanding the manner in which at first he had spoken of it , that he most fears the power of Jesus . 
He will not confess it before the Pharisees and the priests , but seeing deeper than they , he apprehends lest by those very virtues , and that humble and lowly manner of life , which to a dull sight seems to make him harmless , he should build for himself a foundation in the hearts of the people , deeper than could have been laid in any other way , and too deep to be rooted up . 
`` Although , '' he said , `` I have not seen him , yet I have made the most diligent and exact inquiries , and to them all I have as yet received but the same answers , all of which go to prove that a man every way extraordinary hath arisen among us . 
Jesus himself will destroy himself . 
-- that Jesus is their king , and by him a mechanic-king , a low-born peasant-monarch , of their own base blood , they shall come to strange honors and liberties , they shall be slaves no more , but freemen of the soil , with a king over them or under them of their own choosing , and Rome and the Herods at their feet . 
These , young Roman , are our real enemies , and until they are drawn off from these wild fancies , or Jesus is drawn from them , our purposes must halt , and our hands hang idle . 
And who am I , to defer to this carpenter-king -- holding back , while he mounts where I should stand ? '' 
He paused and looked at me as if for a reply . 
If Jesus , '' I continued , `` be in truth the Messiah by the appointment of God -LRB- certainly he is a prophet of great authority -RRB- then wilt thou , as well as I and every loyal Hebrew , hasten to do him homage -- Herod 's countenance grew dark -- we can desire no other than to acknowledge him whom God shall send -- the people will then be where we would have them . 
Herod 's lip curled with an expression of contempt , as he said , `` Verily I think that you do all hold of the fair Judith , who , as I learn , is more than half a believer in Jesus ; and for herself , as I learn also , is a disciple of the holy Saturninus . '' 
I therefore only replied , `` That it was indeed true that the daughter of Onias looked with great hope to Jesus , that he would prove himself both prophet and king ; nay , though he were only prophet , she would not refuse to own him as the Christ , did other proofs conspire . '' 
Lest , then , the people should cling too closely to Jesus , and overlook some of the reasons that may readily be urged against his claims , and lest the hindrances thrown in his way by the rulers and priests should not be sufficiently availing , it shall not be my fault if there be not thickly scattered over the land , wherever this Nazarene shall wander with his fishermen , those who shall sow in the minds of the people seed of another sort , and pluck up , as they may , what he hath planted , and stir into the mass of those whom he shall gather together a leaven , that shall cause it to move and heave , if not to my rising , to his falling . 
I might perhaps and with safety , as I just now said , leave this whole office to the Pharisees , priests , and to Jesus himself ; it can hardly be doubtful to what issue events would come . 
I still ventured to urge a further delay , and on the ground , that as we could not know all the purposes and plans of Jehovah , so we could not feel sure that Jesus was not the Son of God , revealing himself to the people in the way , not in which we had been taught to expect him , but in a way appointed by him who sent him . 
`` That is all possible ; '' he said ; `` it can not be denied it is all possible ; -- Jesus may yet put forth an energy that has not been seen or suspected , and show himself to be all the nation is looking and asking for . 
We learn too that there is not only mildness , but dignity and greatness also in his carriage , not unworthy a king . '' 
Marvelnot , my mother , that I thus consent to remain in Tiberias and in the service of Herod , while , as you well know , I incline so strongly towards Jesus . 
My accounts of Jesus have made not a deeper impression on your mind than I should have looked for ; and I am not surprised that in your last epistle you advise that I should for a time withdraw from Herod and Onias , and seek out the new Prophet , and follow him for a season at least , that by my own observation and hearing I may make up my judgment concerning his real character and purposes . 
Besides this also , so constantly do we receive intelligence of the movements of Jesus , and of the progress he makes , and the opinions he declares , and the miracles he performs , that it sometimes seems to me that my means of a right judgment are as many and as trustworthy here , as if I were among the multitudes who throng his steps . 
Many of his sayings are becoming common , and are treasured up in the memory , or by others written down , that they may be the better preserved , corrected , and enlarged by additions from future sources of information . 
The zeal in his behalf has been and is now almost universal ; scarce any save the chief men among the sect of the Pharisees , and among the scribes and priests of Jerusalem , doubting that whatever may be his present appearance , conduct , and even language , he will in no long time break forth in all the glory of our expected Prince . 
Yet there are those , who hitherto have firmly believed , yet now are perplexed or doubtful -- their perplexities and doubts springing , as far as I can at present discover , from the language which Jesus uses respecting the Law , his disregard of the Sabbath , and the slight he casts upon those who are at the head both of religious and civil affairs , and to whom , were he really Messiah , he would , they think , certainly attach himself . 
After many days devoted to the affairs of Herod , I at length obtained the freedom which I had long desired , to visit the villages scattered along this western shore of the lake , and especially Capernaum at its head , where Jesus has dwelt much of the time since his baptism , and where he has performed many of his miracles ; and Bethsaida , about midway between Tiberias and Capernaum , whence , as I learn , Jesus hath drawn many of his followers . 
`` He might find a few followers here , he answered , `` but not many , so long as John and Jesus are abroad among us . 
This youth , my partner , would join him , but so would not I. '' The young man , in reply to my question how he had come to a knowledge of Herod 's purposes , said that it had been through his messengers whom he employed and who were scattered over Judea . 
`` As I judge , '' said he , `` by means of such messengers he will spread a knowledge of his plans throughout the whole land , and will so work against both John and Jesus , that they will ere long be driven from the land . '' 
`` There 's a young hopeful for you , '' said the elder Fisherman ; `` so caught away is he with these notions , that it is with much ado I secure now and then a day 's service at the nets or the line . '' 
`` Without doubt , '' he replied , `` because of the multitudes who throng after Jesus of Nazareth . 
Ah , Sir , there were little chance for Herod , would Jesus only declare himself . 
The people urge him to do so ; but no such urgency has prevailed . 
While we can not doubt that he is a prophet of God , seeing what his power is , yet will he give no sign , not to be mistaken , that he is the Christ . '' 
Jesus hath not himself said that he is the Christ , so at least say some , and if we believe him to be so , we believe in more than he himself affirms of himself . 
What you say , Sir , is very true , that miracles may be wrought by evil spirits , and some , perhaps , but not such as those of Jesus , by magic . 
Wherefore , when I resorted to Jesus , being at first drawn to him , I confess , by the noise made by his wonderful works , I gave not my faith until I had heard his doctrine , and found it to be such as was altogether worthy of God ; and then observed his character and manner of life , and found that they also were altogether god-like . 
So , when I found that Jesus was so holy in himself , and so divine in the excellence of his doctrines , then I felt sure that his works could be done by no other spirit or power than a divine spirit and power , and I believed that he was a Prophet . 
For so do the countenance , the manner , and the first words of Jesus fall upon and convince the soul , that a persuasion , that he is honest and true , comes as soon as sight and hearing , and the miracle , which we then witness , we are sure is from God . 
`` Your faith , then , '' I said , `` rests on the works of Jesus . '' 
`` Surely it doth , '' he answered ; '' his virtues and his doctrine , how excellent soever , could do no more than show that he was worthy to have come from God ; not that he had come from him ; for we know not how far the wisdom of a mere man may reach , nor how high his virtues may climb ; but we do know that a man can not do the works of Jesus , except God be with him , or else the spirit of Beelzebub ; and a good man worketh not by the help of an evil spirit . '' 
`` Yet , '' said I , `` there are not a few now , as I hear , who say that the works of Jesus are done by an evil spirit , and not by the spirit of God . '' 
`` Among us in Capernaum there are but few such , '' replied the fisherman , `` and they are of the leaders among the Pharisees , who themselves , when Jesus first appeared , were the first to believe , and to cry out Christ ! 
`` Many things , '' he replied , `` in the doctrines and manners of Jesus helped to offend them , and turn them against him . 
He would not flatter them , or bend to them , because of their office ; but chose rather to consort with the good , however humble they might be , and even with gentiles and sinners of every kind , so they came to him sincerely desiring to listen to him . 
Moreover he loosened , instead of drawing closer and tighter the bonds of outward worship and rite , teaching that God judges by the state of the heart , and not by the number of a man 's washings and sacrifices ; and when he wished to show the people the difference between a painted outside and a pure heart , he would draw a picture of a Pharisee relying on the exactness of his observances , and of a publican , or a gentile , doing good actions , and then trusting to the mercy of God , and would justify the latter rather than the former . 
All which , and much more that it would weary you , Sir , to hear , enraged them , and the very man they were a little while ago exalting as the Son of God and King of Israel , they now upbraid as a child of the devil , and a minister of Satan -- though Jesus stands among us the same as at first . 
I follow not Jesus as the Christ , -- nor do I think he will ever prove to be that person . 
He , who should deny the works of Jesus , would deny the voice of God , though God spake in his very ear . 
Let Herod save Israel from Rome and deliver her , and then shall both John and Jesus , as Elijah and Elisha teach and rebuke , and be to the people through their instructions as a savor of life to the dying . '' 
Would that Jesus without delay would declare himself , and this Herodian faction would vanish as the mists of the lake at the breaking forth of the sun . 
And did he but know what their designs are and how busily and secretly they pursue them , sure I am , it would move him to yield to those who urge him so to do . '' 
`` He knows well of the Herodians , '' said his companion , `` and has warned the people against them and their leader ; so learned I but yesterday , from one who was just from the Feast . 
But , if I may prophecy , Jesus will himself be sooner forsaken , than Herod . 
I see not who bind themselves to Jesus but the poorer sort . 
Crowds of these are at his steps , and doubtless they truly honor him , but what staff are they , to lean upon in a great enterprise such as that of the Messiah . '' 
`` I trow , '' replied the elder , `` they will help Jesus as much and as securely on the way to greatness , as Herod 's vices will him . 
It may be that Jesus hath returned to Capernaum . '' 
`` Is he dead ? '' 
cried Nathaniel , `` he lay this morning at the point of death . '' 
`` Hath Jesus returned then ? '' 
`` No , yet hath he healed him , himself being at Cana . '' 
But though we could not obtain near access to the house , yet could we easily behold the young man who had been cured , and who now come forth upon the housetop and showed himself to the people ; and we could hear the declaration of his parents , that at the same hour that Jesus had spoken the word in Cana , the young man 's fever had left him . 
When the evening had come on , many of the neighbors gathered together with us , and the hours were passed in much further conversation and dispute concerning John , Herod , and Jesus . 
At the early dawn I was awakened by the host , and after partaking with him and his wife and children the morning repast , set forward on my way , returning not as I had come , but , at the instance of the fisherman , by the way of villages lying removed from the lake , among which were Cana and Nazareth . 
But because I would have thee see Jesus and hear him , for thine own sake and Judea 's , I commend to thee this other road ; and it will be strange if either at Nazareth or Cana , thou do not find him , or else at some point on the highway . 
The highways were filled with persons who , after resorting to Jesus for many days that he had remained in Cana and the towns round about , were , now that he had departed for another region , returning to their homes . 
From conversations with many of these , I learned that Jesus , having left Cana , had gone toward the sea-coast ; but that while in this neighborhood he had performed many miracles by which the people had been astonished , and had been brought to believe in him , notwithstanding so many things make against him . 
They were persuaded he would yet show himself to be the Christ . 
Jesus spoke as if these were not his real designs ; but there were quite others which he was aiming to carry on -- to favor which he was covertly using every means to gain the hearts of the people . 
When I further asked what they themselves supposed such designs to be , they hesitated not , but believed that he was aiming at the throne of Israel . 
And they could not doubt that Jesus entertained the same opinion , and that it was to put the nation on its guard against him that he had spoken . 
These , and other things which I learned on the way of such as I fell in with , greatly increased my desire to see Jesus , and my sorrow that he had turned from Cana toward the sea-coast , instead of the East and the Jordan , as I had hoped he would do . 
As soon as it was learned that I had come from the lake and through Cana , the mother asked if I had seen Jesus in Cana , or in either of the villages on the road . 
I answered that I had not , although it was in the hope to find him , that I had departed from Genesareth in my return to Tiberias . 
The rumor was a true one , which you heard , Sir , but it would not sway your mind against Jesus , did you know better the heart of these men of Nazareth ; surely , methinks , to deserve their hatred is to be the more secure of the favor of God . '' 
`` But , '' said I , `` it is even reported , and I myself heard it at Capernaum , that the family of Jesus , his parents and brethren , believe not in him , but are as the other inhabitants of the place , which I confess filled me with astonishment , and caused me to think otherwise than I had been inclined to do of those who in other parts of the country turn away from him . '' 
`` Do you not know then , '' said the father of the family , that we are the parents of Jesus , and these his brethren and sisters ? '' 
`` And deeper down in your heart would your faith be , '' said the mother of Jesus , `` if you yourself knew him of whom we speak . '' 
`` Nevertheless , '' said I , `` I perceive from what you have already said , that the rumor of which I have spoken is true , that not only do the inhabitants of Nazareth reject Jesus , but that some of his own family reject , or , at least , doubt concerning him . 
`` Jesus himself , '' continued Judas , `` gave it the right interpretation , when , as he left the synagogne , he said , A prophet is honored everywhere else rather than in his own town and among his own family and friends . '' 
`` But , '' replied the brother , `` believe me when I affirm that it is not this sentiment alone nor chiefly , that governs his parents or brethren . '' 
I said quickly , `` I was sure he spoke the truth . 
`` Why then , '' I said , `` if it be not to ask too much , do you hesitate to give a full faith to Jesus ? 
`` We have not doubted hitherto , '' resumed the brother , `` that Jesus is inspired of God . 
We do not , as others , wickedly give the wonders he performs to spirits of the dead , or to Beelzebub , of whom and whose power we believe nothing , nor in truth do many of those who make such assertions . 
The whole manner of his life , as well as the strange events at his birth , convince us that he is highly favored of God , and by him reserved to some mighty work . '' 
`` What is reported then of his birth , and we have all heard , may be received as true ? '' 
I said , turning as I spoke towards the mother of Jesus . 
After a brief pause , Judas continued ; `` What it is that of late has perplexed us and caused us against our nature and our desires to doubt , has been the strangeness of the doctrines which Jesus has preached , and the strangeness of his conduct . 
In good truth he is no longer a Jew -- he is rather anything else -- and can we hold him longer with an unwavering persuasion to be a prophet of God to his people , who sets aside the law God himself gave to that people , to be an everlasting covenant between him and them ? '' 
`` What make you then , '' I asked , `` of the Miracles of Jesus ? 
They surely show him to be sent of God . '' 
It may be that by the mouth of Jesus he would declare some new truth , not such as shall be in violation of the Law of Moses , but in addition to it ; and truly , as I think , there is much that passes among us as the law given of God , which were perhaps better termed the false conclusions of vain and mistaken men . '' 
`` Ah , my mother , '' said Judas , `` thou art carried away by thy love to say things contrary to the truth ; here now wouldst thou cause the Law , even the Law of God , to veil itself before the wisdom of thy son Jesus ! 
Is Jesus such an one ? 
Are there in him signs that mark the Conqueror and King ? 
Nay , can one so much as think of Jesus doing the deeds that must be done when Israel shall arise and enter into her glory ? 
Has he not indeed , when teaching the people , declared things which , if they be rightly understood , make it but a sin and an offence to seek dominion and to aspire after honor and seats of pride and power . 
He commends the humble , the meek , the peaceful , and such as are content to submit and serve , taking heed only to their souls , to keep them holy in the sight of God , rebuking the contentious and ambitious , the lovers of place and authority . 
They agree well with the character of Jesus , and no other precepts should I ever look to hear from his lips , and so should we all say '' -- `` Yes , surely we should say it , '' fell from all . 
As Judas ended , the others were silent -- the mother of Jesus buried as it seemed in many thoughts of which no others might be sharers . 
But as I had already gathered so much from them concerning themselves and their relations to Jesus , I began our conversation by informing them of my own life and opinions , not withholding from them my conviction of what I believed was Herod 's part in the present affairs of Judea , though by no means communicating other things respecting him and myself , which I was bound not to reveal . 
To his hostility to John and Jesus , he takes care to give the color of friendship and zeal for Rome , and the security of his possessions . 
So that of designs inimical on his own part they think not . 
When I had ended , Judas said , `` Herod is the bitterest foe of Jesus ; not openly so , but secretly through those whom he employs to beset his steps , and inflame against him the Pharisees and the people . 
While he supposed Jesus to make no pretensions and lay no claim to the office and title of Messiah , he did little against him ; but since it is affirmed that Jesus has declared , not only as at first , that the kingdom is it hand , but that it has come , and that he is the expected Prince , and that by his disciples it is believed that he is so , Herod has become more active , and as we just learn is resolved upon his destruction . 
In what Judas said I was astonished at two things , that Herod was actively employing his agents in opposition to Jesus , and that Jesus was now known to have declared himself the Messiah . 
As to the first , Herod at Tiberias had said that he did not hold it needful to do aught against Jesus , seeing that the anger of the Pharisees , whom he rebuked with such severity , would do for him all he should desire to be done . 
He must therefore have deceived me , or else have suddenly changed his purposes . 
I was also surprised to learn that Jesus had with such explicitness avowed himself the Messiah , that it had come to be known as a truth to be relied upon . 
For hitherto , although the people were clear in their belief that he would prove to be that person , and would so declare himself ; yet from him they had been able to obtain only obscure and doubtful hints . 
The fact that he had now confessed himself the Christ , it seemed to me , would decide his fate one way or another in a short time . 
Jesus acknowledges himself the Messiah ; but with this declaration is there any change in his doctrine , or his appearance ? '' 
It will cause him to be rejected and denied by all Israel as one man ! 
Hitherto while himself has made no such declaration , but it has only been made for him , the reason urged against him has been , that he agrees not in his character and purposes with the Prophets . 
But all have deemed , who have persisted to have faith in him , that soon as he should assume the Name , then would he burst forth in the splendor becoming the Son of David , and the King of Israel . 
He still wanders about the land as if without home or friends , meanly apparelled , wearied with the way , and exhausted through want of food and drink , and as night approaches sleeping ofttimes beneath the open sky , or throwing himself upon the charities of those who are poor as he ; consorting , moreover , by night and by day with those whom the Chiefs of the land look upon as little better than the offscouring of the earth , though indeed their chief fault is , that like us , and like Jesus , they are poor and of no repute , or like us and all , save jesus himself , sinners . '' 
`` Our mother , '' said Judas , `` has not yet learned what I have now said , that Jesus is known to have claimed for himself the Kingdom . 
Yet has it long been my warm desire to seek Jesus and follow him , if not as a disciple , as one who would learn of any teacher the truth concerning God and virtue , life and death ; and it is of these , as I hear , that he chiefly discourses . '' 
All , Sir , it can with certainty be affirmed of the objects which Jesus has before him , is that he aims to increase the happiness of the people by teaching them the fear of God , by showing them by the manner in which he himself lives , how they ought to live , by using the wonderful power which God has entrusted to him for their benefit , and by exposing the hypocrisies of the Pharisees , and their perversions of the Law , their false maxims and formal and heartless worship . '' 
`` These are objects , '' I said , `` well worth living for , and , if need be , dying for , and though Jesus should not be the Christ , yet must he be esteemed one of the chief of the prophets of God . '' 
`` And a pity it is , '' added a younger brother , `` that Jesus will not be content with this nor aim at more . 
Then doubtless would he carry with him the hearts of the greater and better part of the people , and make many useful changes in the doctrine and ceremonies of our worship , which we all know have been greatly corrupted by the traditions descended from former times . 
He would no doubt still enrage the Pharisees and the Jerusalem priests , but the rest would uphold him . '' 
Truly did I rejoice when Jesus cleared the temple at the Passover of another set of rogues , whose life it is to sit and suck the blood of the poor . 
I would that Jesus should neither overthrow the Law , nor , as he doth , diminish its authority , but rather content himself with changing the manners and lives of the people , and teaching them the fear of God . '' 
With Jesus it is , as with the providence of God . 
Let us put our trust also in Jesus , nor judge until we are able to see whither all is tending , and what its purpose and issue are . 
The Pharisees are enraged that he teaches in some things contrary to their interpretations of the Law , but others think that the new sayings of Jesus are in a nearer accordance with the true sense of Moses and the Prophets . 
But now that Jesus has suffered it to be known that he holds himself not only as an inspired teacher , but the Messiah of our nation , no human counsel and no mortal arm can stay the rage that will fill many souls . 
If the men of Nazareth were inflamed to so high a pitch of rage , that he whom they knew to be but as one of themselves should teach them , how much rather will multitudes of the leaders of the people , hungering and thirsting for the honey and manna , the wine and milk of the new Kingdom of God , be filled with envy and rage when they hear that Jesus declares himself the head of that Kingdom , and yet is to bestow upon them nought but the blessings of righteousness , peace , and hope in God -- no other honors , no other riches . '' 
When the morning was come , and I had worshipped with this household and eaten , and had taken leave of Joseph and his sons , who went early to begin the labors of the day , I sought Mary , the mother of Jesus , in the garden , where she sat alone . 
Thou dost almost believe in Jesus , seek him if thou canst , sit with him , and open thine ears with a mind willing to be convinced and thou shalt wholly believe . 
It is said that that wicked man pursues even the life of Jesus -- as of John also . 
Though I believe not in Jesus as the Christ of God , I believe he is of God and full of goodness , as thou and thy sons have said , and never shall he suffer harm if arm of mine can hinder . '' 
God , who has poured out of his Spirit in so full measure upon my son Jesus , will not leave nor forsake him , but will exalt him to the throne of his fathers , and all Israel shall confess him King . '' 
As the mother of Jesus said these words , all her confidence and faith appeared to return ; she once more forgot the mother 's fond anxiety , in her sense of his union with God , and in her faith that God who had so mysteriously endowed him , would watch over him and preserve him for the ends to which he had destined him . 
If it please the Lord to turn thy heart towards his Son Jesus , come hither again , and this roof shall again receive thee , and when all is accomplished for which we hope and wait , thou shalt not lose thy reward . '' 
Having become interested in Jesus the more , the nearer I had approached him , I desired , now that I had by so fortunate a chance beheld his parents , his family , and his home , to see also the synagogue where he had always worshipped , where he had also preached , and from the brow of the rocky precipice nigh unto which it stands , his fellow citizens had not long ago attempted , in their passion , to cast him down headlong ; from which miserable fate he had saved himself only by employing for his deliverance the powers of God he had so often used , never for the injury , always for the protection or deliverance of others . 
When I had entered and surveyed it , I inquired of a servant of the house for the place , near by , where the multitude had led Jesus with the purpose to destroy him . 
As he went before me , but slowly by reason of his halting upon a withered limb , I asked why they had sought his life ? 
he said . 
`` Better not , '' he answered , `` better not ; no good would come of it . 
I said I had never heard evil of him , though I had heard so much of everything else . 
`` At that , '' he said , `` I marvel greatly . 
`` I am not obliged , '' he replied , `` to make anything of them . 
`` We deny not , '' he answered , `` his wisdom nor his works , and vain were it , truly , to deny what all ears heard , and all eyes saw ; but whence he hath his power and his wisdom , as I have told thee already , each may believe as he listeth . 
Old Joseph is a just and a devout man , and hath brought up his offspring as one who loveth the Sabbath , and the road to Zion ; and I warrant you , he took not so patiently the forward conceits of his son Jesus . 
Verily , when he first heard that Jesus had begun to teach , he set forth to withstand him , as one whom he judged not in his right mind . 
Having satisfied myself with observing the place to which my guide had conducted me , and heard enough to make me believe that the Nazarenes deserved their ill repute in Judea , I left him , and returning again through the village , took my way towards Tiberias . 
As I walked along and thought of all I had heard and seen , I could not but feel pity toward this Teacher of Nazareth , whom all seem to allow to be not only of a life and manner entirely pure and innocent , but filled with acts of charity and love toward others ; yet all seem inclined at the same time , some for one reason and some for another , to injure , or at least to refuse to him their regard and confidence . 
They behold his works , and confess them to have all the marks of God , yet will not believe his words . 
Were it not that Jesus gives himself out , though not plainly , but obscurely and covertly as it were , for Messiah , sure I am , his virtues would secure the homage of all save the baser spirits among the priesthood . 
She rejoiced greatly that I had seen those who were so well acquainted with the life and teachings of Jesus , though she grieved also that I had not found Jesus himself . 
Of a devout mind , she has found only in Jesus such food for her soul as she desires . 
`` Chuza , '' she answered , `` much as he honors the Law and the synagogue , honors such virtue as this that is seen in Jesus more , and though for himself he has no hope of Jesus , or faith in him as Israel 's Christ yet he doubts not his worthiness , and would never deny me my own belief whatever it may be . '' 
While in Beth-Harem I learned that Onias continued absent in the southern part of the country , not only performing trusts committed to him by Herod , but also making use of every means thrown in his way , or which he could devise , to increase his knowledge of Jesus , and become acquainted with his true character and designs . 
For this purpose he had visited Jerusalem , and at the Passover had sought Jesus , and followed him north as far as Samaria , hearing him and witnessing his works , when he again returned to Idumea , but with the resolve at the approaching feasts of the Pentecost and Tabernacles , again to seek the capital and watch his course . 
Of Zadok , Judith informed me , that he had grown each day more fierce in his opposition toward all who were inclined to put their faith in either John or Jesus , that he had joined himself with other leading Pharisees in other parts of Peræa and Judea , whose object was to make or find occasion to accuse them of such offences against the Law and the Roman power as should cause them to be imprisoned , or else to stir up the people to some act of violence . 
He had also used language , which showed that they who were bold enough , contrary to the counsels of such as himself , to believe in Jesus , should be cast out of the synagogue , and suffer besides whatever evils might be inflicted upon them by the believing and the devout . 
He had become , since I had left Beth-Harem , exceeding mad ; and in the towns round about , in Jericho and in Jerusalem had bound himself by solemn oaths to others of the same sect and the same temper , to purge the land , as they say , of blasphemers . 
It would not be easy , Judith thought , for Jesus to elude the watchfulness of these men , and the devices they would put in practice , to impute to him such acts , or such opinions , as would rouse against him the passions of the people , and excite also the suspicions of the Roman government . 
Ruth had sought diligently for all the intelligence she could procure of Jesus , and the opinions he had promulgated , of his character , life , and works , and from all that she could learn had become persuaded that he was in truth the Prophet who should come into the world . 
But especially was she guided by her conversations with Judith , and by the knowledge derived from the sayings of Jesus , of which from various quarters the daughter of Onias , like Joanna , had collected a large store . 
These served to convince her , as she said , that Jesus was too holy and pure to make any pretensions that were not founded in truth ; it was impossible , that he who could advocate the cause of God and the most exalted virtue in such a manner , borne out by such a life , could be false in any part of his conduct . 
Shall Jesus , by the touch of his hand , do the works of God , and at the same time by the words of his mouth utter lies which are of the Devil ? 
As Jesus is reported to have said , `` the same vine beareth not bad fruit and good fruit , the same spring sends not forth salt water and fresh , the waters of Genesareth and those of the Dead Sea . '' 
I believe , then , that because Jesus has declared that he is the Messiah of God , or even , because he permits the people to believe that he is , therefore he is that person , nor shall any Zadok have power to pluck this faith out of my heart . '' 
When Jesus openly in the eyes of the nation assumed the name and the place , which , as the king of the Jews , belonged to him , I would acknowledge him and forsake every other ; but in no other event . 
I required the evidence of my eye and ear ; the correspondence of Jesus to the prophecies . 
Everything in the manner of life , the character , and maxims of Jesus was against the probability that he was the Christ , and in its favor only his declaration , if in truth he had ever made such declaration , for it could not be shown beyond a doubt that he had -- that he was so , and his power of working miracles . 
When he will listen to the importunities of those who throng him , of some of the wisest and most powerful in the land , and stand openly and publicly forth , then it will be time enough for one who would be governed by more than his fancies , to bend the knee and follow him . 
She is fully bent upon going up to the Feast of Tabnacles , when it shall come , and taking with her her father , that if she can obtain the favor of Jesus , he may possibly be healed . 
Long ere this would she have sought his presence , but that Levi has refused steadfastly , saying , that a life like his was not worth the prolonging , seeing that for so many years he had been shut out from the knowledge and affections of all who once knew him . 
But to such things , Ruth made replies that have touched his heart too tenderly to be withstood , and she has obtained his consent to go up to the Feast , unless Jesus should first perchance come into the Peræa . 
When this was made known to me , I at the same moment abandoned his cause , not being able to persuade myself that prosperity could attend the measures of one who should openly put from him the fear of God ; nor being ready to take any part in the injury of two men so holy as John and Jesus , for the advantage of one so wicked as Herod . 
`` Of Jesus we learn that few miracles have of late been wrought , but that he employs himself in preaching in the synagogues , the truths which he conceives to be most essential , and in which the differences are to be discerned between what he holds to be best , and the ancient Law of Moses . 
I often at this time received letters from Judith informing me of the progress of Jesus and of the oppositions he encountered , and of herself seeking him in Galilee and becoming a constant follower and hearer . 
They doubt not , and how should I doubt , that Jesus will prove all we wish and all we want ; since it is impossible for those who will see and hear him to associate deceit with him , or any purpose or design other than those which he plainly avows . 
Now he declares that he hath come from God , that the prophets have foreshown him as he who is to come , that the Kingdom of God is shortly to make its appearance and be established , and that he is the Christ who shall reign over the new Kingdom . 
And oh , how peaceful and hallowed a people would they be over whom Jesus shall reign as King ! 
How different he from the other kings of the earth ! 
with what new honors will he crown the good , with what new terrors will he strike the wicked ! 
In his teaching he ever invests with the highest praise the virtues of sincerity , contentment , gentleness , chastity , and kindness toward all . 
Shall not his own government proceed upon the maxims which he has thus publicly proclaimed as those which are to be considered superior over all others ? 
Why , why does Jesus thus delay to assume the place that is his , and lay the foundations of the Kingdom whose approach he has so plainly announced ? 
But others say , if such an one as Jesus is to reign in Israel , then as he is to govern by rules and maxims so different from those of other Princes , it must be necessary to lay deep among the people a right preparation . 
I do not say , Julian , that there are not misgivings among even such as these , and that they are not often startled and alarmed , and made to doubt by words which Jesus uses , by slights put upon the chief men of the nation , by his free departures from the common practices of the most devout , and dark intimations that he himself is destined rather to suffer future evils than to reign as a Prince . 
For myself , could I be well content -- which Onias ever ascribes to my Samaritan descent -- were Jesus to be no other than a teacher and reformer , -- a preacher of righteousness , and a restorer of the Law . 
Yet am I at the same time ready to acknowledge that I look with greater expectations of good to Israel -- of greater good than could otherwise accrue -- which Jesus could effect were he not only prophet but king also . 
How would he then stand above all others a just model for all the princes of the earth ! 
And in saying this , confound me not with those who throng the steps of Jesus but with expectations of some advantage so soon as he shall proclaim himself , and who think not of him or his future kingdom as differing from other thrones and other monarchs from whom flow honors , powers , and riches , save that from Jesus these shall flow in fuller streams , and overspread the whole land of Judah and Israel . 
Thus wrote Judith in one out of very many epistles which , while I dwelt in Rome , I constantly received -- all of them together presenting a very exact account of the doings of Jesus and the conduct and opinions of the people during that period . 
But though in Rome , the state of Judea , and the works and teaching of Jesus , were with me the things of chiefest interest , and with the most of our people also , to whom I communicated freely of all the information I received . 
Not less than myself , many in a greater degree , were they roused and inflamed with the hopes excited by the miracles of Jesus , not doubting that he was the promised king , and would soon establish his reign . 
Not a few made every preparation which at a distance could be made -- converting their estates into gold and precious stones -- to remove from Rome to Judea as soon as the final elevation of Jesus should scatter every remaining doubt . 
They could not interpret his humble origin and mean and lowly condition , nor many of the doctrines which were imputed to him , but neither on the other hand could they interpret his astonishing powers except he were the Son of God . 
Some indeed , who were more careful to distinguish things that differ , and not to take all that is like for the same , of whom there are ever but a few , thought that in Jesus there was somewhat which exalted him far above ordinary mortals , and which ranked him justly among divine beings ; they doubted not he was a God , descended for great purposes among men . 
-- out of my following after Jesus , whose steps I have closely pursued with but brief intervals of absence since I first left Beth-Harem for Idumea . 
Wherefore I determined , that whereas I had up to the day when I left Beth-Harem , received all my knowledge of Jesus through the reports of others , and the rumors which were spreading over the country of whose origin and authority none could give any account , I would no longer in such a matter trust to what might be error or falsehood , but myself resort to Jesus or his disciples and become a patient learner of the truth . 
`` Thou knowest how at Beth-Harem I had ever laid a restraint upon the holy Zadok , when in his zeal for the Law and our chosen Head he was prompt on all occasions to revile the very name of Jesus and his followers , never doubting them to be deceivers , children of the Devil , and that so they would be proved in the end . 
Hardly was Judith herself more moved toward Jesus , than I . 
It was accordingly with great expectations that such favorable judgments would be established , and that as a consequence thereof I should abandon the cause of Herod , as thou hast now rashly done , that when I had reached Idumea , I determined within myself to go up to Jerusalem at the Passover , for it was rumored that Jesus would be there . 
Jesus came , as it was predicted he would do , I saw and heard him , I followed him from Jerusalem into the country round about in Judea , then into Samaria and Galilee , thence to Jerusalem again at the Pentecost and Tabernacles , and am now returned even as I came forth from Beth-Harem , more than ever a Jew and a Herodian ! 
There was that in Jesus that drew me towards him , as it were with cords of iron and bands of steel , and there bound me ; and like the foolish multitude I had well nigh been held fast in the disloyal captivity . 
For , as I have said , there is that in Jesus , which attracts and binds as by some magic force . 
`` There being , in addition to all I have said , the appearances of truth and honesty in Jesus , an openness too which convinced the observer , that nothing was kept back from the people which he had power to communicate , or which it concerned them to know , and a readiness to hear both the inquiries and the objections which any who approached had to propose , with a gentleness , and a compassionate regard for all that gave assurance of a kind reception , even to women and children , if they could so far overcome the natural feelings of awe as to draw nigh to him , I have to acknowledge , Julian , that when I had once seen him and heard his discourse , I was as one bound to him ; every feeling of the heart without any will of my own was freely his , and for a time I felt as if I too should number myself among his followers . 
Not a Jew in the land , not one of Jesus 's own disciples was a more constant and devoted follower than I. `` But what now ? 
Have I given to Jesus my allegiance ? 
Yet for his virtues I would that Jesus were he , that he gave other signs than those he now gives that God hath sent him to fill that high office . 
For though in Jesus be seen many of the qualities and graces which would fit him for that trust , yet of others he possesseth not one . 
`` As it is with the character of Jesus and the outward appearance , so is it with the doctrine he preaches ; at first , and in many things it captivates and charms , but afterwards those things are observed which not only agree not with , but oppose the very existence of that Kingdom for which we look and pray ; so that I have even conceived that he aimeth secretly to make hostile the heart of the people toward it . 
They of Rome are our enemies , yet he teacheth us to love them ! 
They have enslaved and injured us , he would have us for this evil to do them benefits ! 
Jesus teaches peace , and threatens that such as use the sword for conquest , or dominion , or revenge , shall by the justice of God be doomed to perish by the sword ! 
Israel can rise to her ancient glory only as she shall covet glory , and honor , and a kingdom , and as her children shall in these things aspire to be what their fathers were , but Jesus teaches that they who follow him must seek after none of these things , but choose rather to serve others and be in obedience . 
If we , Julian , have read the Prophets aright , the Messiah , and they who shall join themselves to him , will reap the natural rewards of those who deliver their country from oppression and invest her with power and dominion ; but Jesus declares that they who follow him must look only to deny themselves any such expectations , and to prepare themselves rather for sufferings and adversities , than for the enjoyments and honors we are accustomed to regard as our fitting recompense . 
And , moreover , while the zealous Jew , the descendant of Abraham , the disciple of Moses , hath been trusting that under the Christ he would be more than ever established , and the Gentile held as utterly accursed and alien before the Lord , Jesus hath more than hinted , he hath in his teachings plainly declared that henceforth all shall be alike before God ! 
`` What think you of these things , Julian , which I have heard many times and oft from the lips of Jesus , and which in various form make up the burden of his teaching ? 
Do they become the Deliverer -- him of whom the Prophets have spoken as King of Israel in her restoration , even as God himself was her King of old ? 
Greatly more than John , does Jesus throw obstacles in the way , not only of Herod , but of any other , if Herod be not he , whom God may send to accomplish our salvation . 
Wherefore , it grows to an obligation , whose force I feel more and more as I hear more of Jesus and witness more of his power over the people , to oppose him , and if it may be separate the multitudes from him . 
To this work henceforth do I give myself ; and if it should be said , behold the righteous zeal with which Onias resisteth Jesus ! 
-- it may then be replied at the same time , that if he stirs himself with zeal for the cause of God it is not in ignorance that he doth it , for than he no one more constantly followed after the steps of Jesus , and listened to him more patiently . 
But , who was he , to suffer his private affection for this wonderful man , to stand between him and what he owed to the Law , to Israel and to the God of Israel ? 
By other things also , have I been at first troubled and confounded , but at last strengthened in this resistance I purpose of Jesus . 
When soon after you , Julian , had set forth for Tiberias , and I for Idumea , I sought , and listened to the teaching of Jesus , I found that which I expected , a prophet of God clothed with powers , such as I believe were never before , save unto Moses , granted to a mortal man . 
Were Jesus the Christ , why when we have urged him to do so hath he steadfastly refused to give a sign , which we could not doubt , that he was so -- a sign in the Heavens , or in enterprises he should set on foot , or in those demonstrations of kingly rank and power to which not one would refuse his faith ? 
Jesus , moreover , hath violated the requirements of the Law , setting it at naught , which he who came to restore and magnify the Law could never do . 
The Sabbath is to him as another day for the freedom with which he sets aside its requirements in favor of that which he may wish to do , saying , that its observance should bend to many of the necessities of man -- which truly many a Hebrew is already without instruction , prone enough to do -- but from the Messiah we should look to see its observance , as of all the Law , carried to a higher pitch , and men taught how they may keep it even with the zeal of Ben Ezra of Cæsarea , or Zadok of Beth-Harem , yet without hollowness or hypocrisy . 
Whence is it that Jesus , if Messiah , often when the Jewish opposers and disbelievers revile and reproach him , is heard to declare , that if it be that they turn from him , another people , from the East and the West , the North and the South , shall come in and possess the inheritance of the children of Abraham ? 
Verily while such shall be his language it is not difficult to foresee that such will be the end at which he shall arrive ; for already are there those among the Pharisees , and of the Priests at Jerusalem who seek his life , and will have it , if human cunning and force can prevail against one endowed with such powers as those of Jesus . 
`` When , during the long period that I have followed the steps of Jesus , I have sought him and conversed with him of these things , and have urged him to delay no longer , but if he be the Christ , to declare himself openly , he has said , that I have misconceived the nature of that office ; that he has come a teacher of divine truth , not a Prince and King ; that his office is to redeem mankind from sin , not to reign over them on the throne of Israel , and that he has long and often declared himself , but that the people will not understand or receive him . 
Yet am I filled with admiration even as I was at first with the virtues and character of Jesus . 
But sure am I , at the same time , that he deceiveth himself , that he misconstrueth the Prophets , and while he vainly thinketh himself to be the Christ , is indeed perhaps in the counsels of God , Elias , or the prophet , who should go before -- whether to announce Herod , or some other , who can tell ? 
John , who alone dared to lift up his voice against the king , reaps his reward in the dungeons of Machærus , while his foolish followers wander about as sheep who have lost their shepherd , some of them having resorted to Jesus , but the greater part still holding together as a society by themselves , not less hostile toward the rival of their master , Jesus , than toward the persecutor , as they judge him , of their master , Herod . 
And concerning Jesus , though it is certain that now the greater part of the people are with him , and by his virtues and his powers he hath bound them to himself through their reverence and love of his character , and the expectation of advantage from his miracles , and of every kind of good so soon as he shall enter upon his glory , yet is it equally certain that all the persons in authority , the leaders of the Pharisees , the principal Scribes , the Priests at Jerusalem , and the council , are with utmost bitterness opposed to him , and seek his destruction . 
Herod might well have pursued his first plan , and intermeddled not , for without his aid , no one thing , not already come to pass , can be more certain than that the enraged Pharisees will soon accomplish the destruction of Jesus . 
These things and many more of the same kind have been reported to Pilate and the powers in Rome , but without any immediate effect , such as was desired ; for the Procurator , upon diligent inquiry through those who have followed Jesus , has declared that he finds no ground of accusation in what they have reported , the language of Jesus having no regard , so far as they could learn , to any Power that is to be set up and established in Judea , but to some mysterious institutions , of which no clear idea could be formed , except that they seemed to have respect rather to what concerns the right conduct of life and the founding of a kingdom of righteousness , than to enterprises that would interfere with the Laws of the Empire . 
Nevertheless , though little may be now apprehended , the suspicions of Rome have been excited toward him , and it will be wonderful indeed , if they should not beget the consequences which suspicions once engendered rarely fail to do . 
Although , Julian , I have not as yet , myself engaged in any action against Jesus or his disciples , yet can I not lament , but must rejoice , that ere long he will fall before the many enemies that are gathering around him , and so the way be left clear and unobstructed for the exalting of the rightful king . 
The Scribes and the Rulers , who on the first appearance of Jesus were so prompt to believe , thinking that He had come who should confirm them in their honors and raise them higher , in their vexation and rage that Jesus has courted them not , but publicly assailed them and exposed their errors and as it were expelled them from the kingdom , whatever it may be which he came to found , will without aid from any quarter , accomplish his ruin . '' 
Yet with such frequency did I receive intelligence of the whole life and doings of Jesus from Onias and Judith , that scarcely could I have known more had I myself been a follower of the Prophet . 
Especially would it please me to present here the many letters of Judith , in which it would be seen how deeply and how truly she penetrated , and comprehended the character of Jesus -- with some remaining errors -- indeed and the nature of the services which it was his purpose to perform for his nation and the world , of which so few , hardly even his nearest followers , comprehended the least , but which time has since revealed to all . 
`` When we thought that the wonders concerning Jesus had come to an end , new ones have unfolded to perplex and astonish us . 
When Jesus was proclaimed by a voice from Heaven , we could not doubt that one greater than any who had gone before had come . 
But what shall we say now , when of those who have been the near followers of Jesus , his chosen disciples , a multitude as it were , possessing the same power as Jesus to heal diseases , to drive out devils , to raise the dead , have proceeded forth from him and penetrated every region of the land , preaching the kingdom of God , that it is now nigh at hand , and to show that they preach with the authority of Jesus and God , working the most surprising miracles wherever they go ? 
Save a few , all believe that now the kingdom will shortly appear , and Jesus reign in Israel . 
Many of the chief men also and Rulers believe in Jesus , and but for shame or fear would openly confess him . 
I hear of those who , both in Jerusalem and elsewhere , have gone to him secretly , with the purpose to inquire into his designs and unite themselves to his cause . 
Fain would the people compel him to declare himself and make no more tarrying , but assume the place they are sure is his , and raise Israel to her proper glory . 
why will he not do so ? 
All men stand waiting , all are sure that he who can do the works of Jesus , and who hath now bestowed the same power upon so many , can be no other than the Son of God , the king of Israel ; yet to-day is as yesterday , and he still refuseth to hearken to our entreaties -- he still wanders through the land , scattering indeed the light of his truth and his virtues everywhere , but is otherwise as if he were the servant of servants , soiled with the way , overcome by fatigue , often insulted by those set on by the Priests , having not where to abide in peace . 
But when it came to be certain that Jesus would soon arrive in Beth-Harem , then he declared that if that happened , he would seek his help . 
He did so . 
And no sooner did the benevolent Jesus behold him and his wretched state , Ruth sitting at his side , and by her countenance saying more than any words could utter , no sooner did he hear his declaration , ` Sir , I believe ; I believe that thou art from God , ' than he touched him , the word was spoken , and he was restored whole and fair , as when he was a merchant of Tyre . 
Aloud they gave thanks to God and Jesus , when they saw what was done , and declared their readiness to follow him wheresoever he should go . 
But he only desired them , To live unto God , and the times would show them what they should do . 
`` They returned with us to our dwelling , and this great restoration was celebrated in the evening by feasting , dancing , and music , and by the presence of all our friends from Beth-Harem -- excepting Zadok alone , who , believing that the powers of Jesus , or professing so to believe , are of the Devil , held it impious in us to receive aid from such a source , as it would be also in him to rejoice with us in what had been done . 
He also , Julian , hath become a believer in Jesus , so far as one can believe in Jesus , who believes not first in Moses and the Prophets . 
Though he understands not much of our expectations of a Messiah , and considers not Jesus at all in regard to that office , he yet acknowledges in him a divine power and authority , and doubts not that he has come from God to be a teacher and reformer of mankind . 
I wait impatiently for the time when he shall receive Moses and the Law also , and Jesus , as not only a teacher come from God , but the Christ of Israel . 
`` It was on this same evening there was present with us one , who having been long time a disciple and companion of Jesus , had turned from him at length , and ceased to have faith in him . 
He was from Bethabara , and even from the very first had been with him . 
Although it was to me a thing not to be explained , how one who had companied with Jesus so long should forsake him , yet I was glad , seeing there was such an one , to be able to converse with him , to discover why he had deserted the society and cause of one who had every day given farther and higher proofs of his being the Son of God . 
` Have you not , ' I asked ` found that in the company of Jesus , for which you sought ? ' 
``` By no means , ' he answered . 
``` But , ' said I , ` you found wisdom and truth , gentleness and humanity in Jesus , and were these no bonds to hold you . ' 
``` I can not deny , ' he answered , ` that I found all these ; and whatever other virtues you may name , they were all there . ' 
``` Did you then , ' said Onias , ` doubt the works of Jesus ? 
``` Surely not , ' he replied , ` whoever shall consort with Jesus , as I have done , will have the same persuasion that one so good and pure as he could have no communion with evil spirits , that he has that the light of the Sun , and the rains of Heaven , and the flowers of the field come not from them -- from none save God . 
``` Yet , ' said I , ` the greater part of those who first joined him still remain with him ; and as for the people at large , whereas but few at first were persuaded that he was the Christ , now , since these new wonders have come abroad and the works of Jesus have been so many , all Israel , save the Priests and Scribes , believe that he is the Messiah who should come , and that so in due time will he declare himself to the shame of all gainsayers , doubters , and deniers . ' 
`` He answered and said , ` that they who stand at a distance , and see and know only a part , can not judge in such a case so well as those who are near and see more and with more exactness . 
Whose faith was firmer than mine , when , forsaking family and the affairs of life , I became a follower of Jesus ? 
I was fain to think that in Jesus I beheld the long expected deliverer ; for in him I noted the signs of a prophet mighty in word and in deed and like unto Moses ; his words were with authority , his life was holy , and his works surely , were those of God . 
``` There they will be , ' said Onias ; ` the patience of those , who , having regard to the virtues and innocence of Jesus , have forborne to do aught in opposition , while he hath this long time claimed to be the Christ , yet hath not shown himself as such , is well nigh spent , and when it shall be wholly , the fierceness of the rebuke of those whom he hath deceived , will be in proportion to the hopes that have been fed , only to be mocked . 
`` I saw that the passions of Onias , with difficulty restrained of late , as they have been worked upon more and more by Zadok , were kindling , and said , ` Perhaps this is not the issue ; Jesus himself , as we hear , still points to the future , and of late there have been grander demonstrations than ever before of the power with which he hath been entrusted . ' 
Let him now look to himself . ' 
`` One thing only was mentioned , in our long conversation with the disciple of Jesus , that seemed contrary to the common opinion which all entertain of his goodness . 
We learned from this disciple , that though Jesus had often been importuned by the disciples of John , and by his own , to interpose and deliver him , for it was feared , that Herod , set on by Herodias , would destroy him , he would not comply with any such request ; and that though John himself had sent messengers to him asking , if he were really the promised Messiah , thereby conveying the knowledge that himself was in prison , and expressing his astonishment , that if Jesus were that great person , he would do nothing for his release , yet neither would he take any notice of such messages , but was willing to leave the Baptist still in prison and at the mercy of the king . 
This conduct of Jesus , we were told , had filled all his followers with surprise ; inasmuch , as they , knowing the powers of Jesus , were persuaded that if he had chosen to exert them , it would have been but the work of a moment to effect his deliverance . 
They could not understand why one so virtuous as John , and who had in the beginning given his testimony so fully in behalf of Jesus , should not in return experience benefits at the hands of Jesus which it would be so easy to confer . 
Why Jesus hath been willing to act such a part I can not explain any more than they , yet doubtless this may be said , that although he has not as yet interposed , he has not refused to do so , and may at some future time ; but although he should never do so , I could still believe , that one of so much goodness as Jesus , of whose goodness all Israel has had knowledge and experience , would have reasons , we should judge , sufficient to give for withholding his aid , could we only arrive at a knowledge of them . 
`` It was also evident , from what this disciple said , that the doubts which had been expressed by John concerning Jesus , whether he were indeed the Messiah , had greatly affected the body of his followers , who were led by it themselves into new and more serious doubts . 
If John , whom all had been accustomed to regard as a prophet , now questioned the claims of Jesus , and was disposed to deny them , and to hint that we must wait yet longer , for some other to arise , much less , it was said , can we believe without some misgivings . 
Yet , to set against these doubts of John , there were miracles more astonishing than ever -- not only on the part of Jesus himself , but on the part of his chosen disciples also . 
But I doubt not , for one moment , that we shall see more than this ; that our eyes , even ours , shall behold the salvation of our God ; that this Jesus shall not only save us from our sins , but redeem us also out of the hand of our enemies . '' 
Thus did it appear plain , that Judith 's faith in Jesus faltered not , but that in the face of so many things unfavorable and discouraging to one , who , like her , could look before and behind , she still believed that Jesus would fulfil all the hopes he had raised . 
It was not surprising , that the multitudes , who for the most part looked no further than the miracles , which were now performed in greater numbers and splendor than ever , cleaved to him ; and , looking rather at what they desired than at what it was reasonable for them to expect , trusted still against all adverse signs , that it was he who should redeem Israel . 
For them it was enough that Jesus continued to give proofs so astonishing , that God was with him ; while such power and favor were his , all seemed to be within his reach , and they doubted not in one way or another , sooner or later , they would succeed in their endeavors to place him where they desired him . 
No two things , differing from each other never so much , seemed to me so contrary the one to the other , as Jesus and the Christ . 
To Judith , however , these things did not present themselves so strongly , but as her letter shows , she persuaded herself , that in some manner , not by any one to be foreseen or described , he would continue to manifest himself the teacher and prophet whom she could love , and by whose labors and instructions the hearts of the people were to be changed , and in due time , when the preparation was complete , stand forth before Israel and the world , as the Messiah also . 
It seemed from many things in the letters which I continued to receive , that by the people it was believed that somewhat that should be deceive in regard to Jesus , would happen at the time of the Passover . 
It was indeed rumored , that Jesus had himself made such a declaration to his disciples , and that they also were looking forward to that Feast , as to the hour that would crown their hopes with their long delayed fulfilment . 
Doubtless , Julian , Jesus will fall in like manner . 
Already many times has his life been sought , and that too by Herod , so that many places have become dangerous to him , and he hath taken refuge now in the dominions of Philip , and now in the desert places beyond Jordan . 
Not a sound reached their ear ; and though Jesus was there doing the greatest works of his life , the rumor of them was scarcely heard by these multitudes so remote , but what is much more , so engaged by the affairs of a vast Empire and a tumultuous capital . 
Spring at length approached , the Tiber opened his gates of ice , the imprisoned and impatient coursers of the sea broke loose from their bondage and set on their way toward all the ports of the known earth , bearing with them the luxuries of Roman art or her gold , to bring back in return the vegetable products or the rude manufacture of the half-civilized nations of Asia and Africa . 
It was on board a trader , bound to Cæsarea , that I embarked , and , after a quick and fortunate voyage , found myself once more entering the arms of her colossal port . 
And I doubt not , my mother , that when the aspect of affairs here shall become more settled , and it shall be determined concerning Jesus and Herod , whether either of them or neither shall reign in Israel , you will stand ready , as indeed your promises have assured me you will , to leave Rome behind , and pass the decline of life here in the land of our Fathers -- and we will hope under the reign of some native prince , if not beneath the rule of Messiah himself . 
But of this I will speak hereafter ; I am now to tell you of whatever takes place here in Beth-Harem concerning our household , or in Judea concerning Jesus . 
I find Judith occupied only by one thought , that of Jesus , and the probable events of the Passover . 
Though she will not admit that she doubts whether Jesus will confirm her hopes by assuming his proper rank at the feast , yet is it evident , that her fears , or apprehensions , outweigh and outrun her hopes , for her countenance is ever anxious ; and when her thought , or her conversation dwells more especially on these themes , its expression is melancholy and sad . 
I asked her of the progress he had made since the last letters I had received , and whether more or fewer miracles than before had been performed . 
`` Julian , '' she answered , `` had God himself walked among us in bodily shape , and powers of healing had flowed out from the glance of his eye , or the air in which he moved , or the touch of his garments , the effects that had followed would not have been more astonishing than the new wonders that have been wrought by Jesus , either in respect to their number , or their greatness . 
Wherever he hath moved have miracles been witnessed , such as have filled all with amazement , and from all have drawn the same exclamation , ` who shall this be but the Christ ? '' ' 
`` It was long before the late feast , that withdrawing from the service of Herod , with whom -- then at length , the open enemy and persecutor of Jesus , plotting even against his life -- she would no longer remain , she obeyed the desires of her heart , and joined the number of those who followed Jesus , hearing him whenever she could , and whenever he tarried long in any one city , resorting thither , her husband with her , but not as yet , like her , a believer . 
For myself , '' continued Judith , `` I went not far from Beth-Harem ; but when Jesus drew nigh , in the lower parts of Galilee , and especially while he sojourned here on the Jordan , and in the nearer regions of the Peræa , thou wilt not doubt that I was then with him , Ruth being ever my companion . '' 
`` Whether , '' she added , after a pause , `` it be reasonable so to believe and trust , I know not ; but so it is , after what I have beheld of the powers of Jesus , and have heard of his doctrine , I believe in him perforce , even as I believe in God . 
The works of God , the Heavens with their hosts declare him their maker and supporter ; and so also the works of Jesus declare him to be of God , clothed with so much of a divine power as is needful to do such things . 
I must confess , that for myself , though to the present moment I had believed with thee , the death of Jesus would convince me at length of my delusion . 
And I may safely promise therefore , that , if being destroyed by the Priests or the Romans , he should overcome the power of death , and as thou thinkest , return to life , and then enter into his kingdom , I will myself believe in him , take him as the Christ , and wear the yoke of his allegiance . '' 
But every feeling toward me was lost in one of gratitude and love for Jesus , to whom they owe so much more . 
It is their delight to speak of him , and they would gladly have followed him had he encouraged them to do so . 
They now look forward with great expectations to the time , which they doubt not will come , when he shall stand revealed before the people . 
Their joy would be double , could they behold him seated where they think it his right to sit , and raised above any apprehension from those who are thirsting for his life . 
The approaching passover is expected by them with impatience , as they intend to go up to Jerusalem and trust then to see Jesus again , and are fully persuaded that at that time he will declare himself and appear what he really is . 
The rumors of his death , both as predicted by himself , or threatened by the Pharisees and Rulers , they will not credit . 
As for the purpose on the part of the Rulers to destroy him by accusing him before Pilate , they say that it is but the same report that has been renewed from time to time , during the whole year that Jesus has taught ; and as for any prediction of such an event by himself , they judge it too little probable to deserve any credit . 
It is to them unlikely in proportion to their persuasion that Jesus is Christ , and in that they are immovably fixed . 
More grateful , hoping , and believing followers Jesus has not in all the compass of Judea than Levi and Ruth . 
`` And his aim , '' I said , `` is the accusation and destruction of Jesus I suppose . '' 
John being disposed of , the adherents of Herod look upon Jesus as the only remaining obstacle in their way . '' 
`` But , '' said I , `` are not the people clearly with Jesus ? 
When , as before the Feast of Tabernacles I mingled much with them , I found them for the most part of his side ; and as I learn the numbers of his followers and friends have greatly increased of late , many even among the rich , and in high station , looking upon him with favor , and secretly favoring him , if not openly confessing him . '' 
`` That is true , '' said the Ruler ; `` the people worship him , and show their homage by crowding about him , hearing him preach , and looking on upon his miracles . 
It will be easy for Zadok and a few like himself to manage them ; nay by a little skill to make it appear that the people themselves require his destruction . 
There is a body of men in Jerusalem , Priests , Rulers , Pharisees , and Scribes , to whom , when united for some common object , the destruction of a friendless , solitary individual , like Jesus , will be but as the crushing of an insect . '' 
`` I will not believe that there are in all Jerusalem , bold and wicked as those white-washed Priests are , men to be found who will dare to assail with ill intent a man like Jesus , so evidently even in their own eyes full of the very power of God . 
If the Law is what we have taken it to be , even the Law of God , then doth Jesus well deserve to die ! 
for what precept is there he hath not perverted , or what holy day he hath not violated ? 
When , seeing what his powers are , we looked to behold him its friend and protector , what doth he but bring it into contempt more and more , breaking its commands himself and teaching others so ? 
`` As sure as it shall be that Jesus is at the feast , so sure will it be that he will fall before the united power of Herod and the Pharisees ; and who can say that with him his followers may not also fall ? 
If Pilate shall be made to believe that Jesus has aimed at dominion , it will be easy to turn his jealous mind against others also . 
What I am sure of is this , that the people are with Jesus from end to end of Israel , not doubting , that now at the Passover , or soon , their hopes will be fulfilled . 
A few in Jerusalem of Priests and Herodians may raise tumults , and by sudden violence , by injustice and deceit attempt the life of Jesus and of his disciples , but never can they succeed . 
The people would not abandon in his extremity one whom they have seen and listened to so long as a Prophet of God . '' 
I too could wish that Jesus might escape the snares that are on every side set for him by the Sadducees , as well as by Pharisees and Herodians ; but as I judge , he can not , or will not . 
Were he now to listen to the advice of many , even as I learn of some of his disciples themselves , who warn him against going up to Jerusalem -- as they say only to die , and they with him -- he might doubtless retreat into Per æa , or upper Galilee or Arabia where Aretas who already hath had communication with him would give him protection , or into Parthia where Artabanus would serve him doubtless the same good turn . 
But , Judith , if he presses on to Jerusalem , think not that the people can save him , if it be that the Rulers should assail him ; for just as they shall perceive the schemes of his enemies succeeding against him , and that he falls more and more into their hands , will their faith in him grow faint and die away . 
His weakness at such a moment will prove him not to be he for whom they had taken him . 
If Jesus fall before his enemies he is not our Deliverer ; if he triumph over them by the same power we have seen him use against disease and death itself , then in that shall we be furnished with the sign of his greatness , not to be mistaken , for which we have asked and waited so long . 
But no more do I doubt that such signs shall be given , than that his birth was announced by angels , that the voice of God was heard at his baptism , that Lazarus and the Widow 's Son returned from death at his word , that the heavens are above me and the earth beneath me . 
But , whatever power may be put forth , and whatever deliverance be wrought out , who can believe that such an one as Jesus shall be shown to be Messiah ? 
It is not surely the possession of power alone that shall make Jesus , or any other , to be the Christ , but a certain kind and fitness of character , which Jesus hath not , and which seems not possible to belong to him . '' 
Why do so many in Israel reject and deny Jesus as the Christ , but because they see not in him the lineaments of the Christ ? 
Why are Chorazin and Bethsaida , and now Capernaum , unbelieving , yea and Nazareth also , but because in Jesus , notwithstanding the wonders of his hand , howsoever wrought , they see not the son of David ! 
To them do I now incline ; for , if they were of God , he who works them could not , as Jesus doth , deceive the people or violate the law . 
But they of the Jews are to be counted by multitudes , who , though they see God in the miracles of Jesus , do not behold the Christ in him ; nor will they look upon it as a possible thing that he should ever be found in him . 
-- Israel will not be at peace until Jesus shall be as John ! 
And what would happen most happily for the people would be , that , at the feast , Jesus should by the Council be accused , and suffer at the hands of Pilate the just punishment of his deeds . '' 
`` Were all in Judea , '' said Onias , `` like Judith , the triumph of Jesus were a sure and an easy one . 
Her whole speech by day , and her dreams by night are of him ; and it is what she has heard of his teaching , even more than what she has seen of his works , that has so won her heart . 
Not a disciple that follows his steps has a faith like hers . 
He who hath thus thrown Israel into confusion , trampled on the law , insulted the priesthood , and will die as the fool dieth , little deserves it . 
There no longer seems any doubt that the destruction of Jesus is resolved upon by the council , and that most of the chief men and rulers look on with approval , or openly aid them in the measures they pursue . 
The works of Jesus of late , which have been so wonderful and astonishing , have filled them with new rage , and wholly blinded them to the truth , that , though Jesus is not , or will not be the Christ , he may still be a prophet and messenger of God . 
That they , rather than Jesus , may possibly be blasphemers and rebels against the authority of God , never enters their mind . 
But their persecutions of Jesus and his followers will surely serve but to endear them the more to the people on whom they have conferred so many benefits . 
Were it not for the industry with which the Scribes and Rulers sow the seeds of doubt and distrust in the minds of the multitude , all would , methinks , believe in Jesus , through veneration of his virtues -- through simple love of him as a gentle and beneficent friend . 
Each one with whom you may converse has something to tell of what he has done to himself or some kinsman or neighbor -- of some instruction he has imparted , or some miracle of mercy he has wrought . 
They say that both for his goodness and his powers they doubt not that he partakes of the spirit of God , even as the prophets of old -- and these things also so far make for him that he is the Christ ; -- they would rather , therefore , that he were left alone untouched , unimpeded by the rulers , to finish his ministry , whatever it may be , and perhaps other signs , in process of days or weeks , and such as we look for , will be given . 
But while the populace are thus justly disposed , they are at the same time weak , timid , and distrustful -- they will do no more than stand by at rest , ready to receive Jesus if he shall commit himself to them , but not ready , nor able , as their temper now is , to do aught to deliver him from the hands of the Priests , if they should finally determine to assail him . 
The great inquiry on their part was of Jesus , and whether he would probably be at the feast , and what would happen if he should be there . 
Having only heard reports of him until now , their only desire seemed to be to see him , and their only apprehension lest he should not be present . 
But there were none from the remoter parts who deemed Jesus to be the Messiah , or thought that he , any more than John , was fitted for that great office . 
The name of Jesus was heard from every one , as he passed talking with another , or as he addressed yourself . 
All were asking some question concerning him of those who , they supposed , might know better than themselves , or else answering those who had made inquiries , or else loudly and fiercely disputing concerning his character , authority , and works , and the designs of the Council . 
As I stood upon the upper steps of those leading to the Treasury , I was accosted by one , who said , `` Sir , can you tell me if Jesus will be at the feast ? '' 
Seeing you , however , but now in company with Onias of Beth-Harem , I looked for more certain intelligence at your hands , as Jesus has of late been in those regions . '' 
`` He has moved so fast , '' I replied , `` from place to place , as if hasting to complete some work that he had to do in season , that it is likely none can tell where he has been , or where he now is , save those disciples who , as I hear , never leave him . '' 
Two days ago he was in the Peræa , beyond Jordan -- to be in the outskirts of Jericho on the Sabbath , where I doubt not he now is . 
And what is more , he will be in Jerusalem at the feast . '' 
`` What I think then is this , that Jesus will publicly , as it is well known he has done privately , declare himself , and the people will rise in his favor . 
It is all abroad among them already , that he hath of late , not obscurely as heretofore , but plainly announced himself the Christ , which has greatly stirred them ; and that , together with their own belief founded on his miracles , will draw them all around him . '' 
Besides , they say if he has uttered such a word , it can mean only that he shall die as Jesus the Nazarene , and then begin his reign and true life as the Christ . 
To give their accusations color , as if they sprung not so much from themselves as from some of the followers of Jesus who would fain do the State a service , it is rumored that one of them is found who will inform against him , and accuse him before the Council . '' 
`` That may be said , '' I answered , `` but can not be true ; for no one thing is affirmed so constantly as this , the veneration and affection with which Jesus is regarded by those who are about him ; so that one might as soon expect that Jesus should accuse himself as that one of his disciples should . '' 
They who preached failed not to turn away the minds of the people , by every form of statement and argument , from Jesus and his doctrines . 
Most assented to such things , but some expressed their dissatisfaction aloud , and attempted to reply by showing the opinions of those who believed in Jesus , but the voices of too many were lifted up against them , and the service ended in noise and confusion . 
It would have been higher still , but that so bitter is this benevolent old Jew 's hostility against Jesus , that he will not permit his name to be mentioned in his presence ; or , if he converses of him at all , it is with a force of passion that changes him for the time to a madman . 
We therefore abstained from all such topics until the evening , and the moon had risen , when we wandered forth to the Fountain of Siloam , where , seated among its rocks and shades , we discoursed of the only things that now engaged us , of Jesus , and of his doctrine , as it is alleged to be , and indulged freely our conjectures of the events of the approaching feast . 
On the following day it became well known among the people , that Jesus had arrived at Bethany , and that he would with certainty be in Jerusalem at the feast . 
Learning from some who returned , that Jesus was indeed there at the house of Lazarus , whom he had raised from the dead , but that on the morrow he would come to the city , I went not , though I restrained myself with difficulty , but waited till he should himself arrive . 
I found them sure of one thing , that Jesus was now coming into the city as the Son of David , that he would proclaim himself , and assume his proper place ; they would go forth in great numbers to meet him , and receive him as it became them to do . 
They said that the Council were already alarmed at teh signs every where so apparent , of devotion to Jesus , and knew not what measures to adopt to check the raging of the fever . 
It was evident , that they were now apprehensive , lest Jesus would prove , what he had often been affirmed to be , and they should lose their power . 
Another day has come and gone -- Jesus has entered the city -- I have seen him . 
If one might judge by the countenance , but especially by the language which continually fell upon the ear , they who had thus come abroad had come in the spirit of friendship , and with the intention to show that if Jesus would meet them in their wishes , they on the other hand would acknowledge and receive him . 
When we had reached the brow of the hill and were about passing it , the sound of voices as of a great number caught our ears , and looking forward we beheld where , as the road suddenly turned , Jesus , surrounded by another multitude , came on toward us . 
The air was now filled with the exulting cries of the approaching throng , which , caught up by us and those who were behind , rolled on an increasing shout even to the gates of the city , announcing to those who covered the walls and the towers , that Jesus was drawing nigh . 
The way was all along strewn with the leaves and branches of trees , which the eager populace tore from the groves that bordered the road ; branches of the Palm were waved over their heads and ever , as Jesus slowly moved on , often wholly obstructed by the struggling crowds , they who were immediately about him cast their garments in the way as before a king . 
Many , especially such as had at any time received benefits of healing at his hands , or whose friends had been restored by his power , cast themselves down prostrate on the ground , as the only sufficient sign they could offer of their reverence and gratitude . 
I can not well describe my sensations as Jesus drew nigh , so that I could with distinctness observe his countenance and form , but they were such as I never before experienced in the presence of a mortal ; and it could not well be otherwise , as I doubted not that I looked upon one within whom were lodged the very power and wisdom of Jehovah . 
Awe and dread were therefore the feelings that would have alone prevailed , were it not that , however wonderfully I felt he was united to God , I saw that the language of his countenance was not that of an Angel , nor of a God , but of a man bound , like myself , by the closest ties to every one of the multitudes who thronged him . 
The day was already well declined when we reached the gates of the city , and when we had arrived at the Temple it had drawn on towards evening ; when , therefore , after entering it Jesus had again , as once before , purged it of those who by their wicked practices violated its sanctity , and the people had received assurance that he would come again on the morrow , he returned to Bethany , where at the house of Lazarus he had taken up his abode . 
The people by a common impulse were eager to receive Jesus ; and who could now doubt that he was the Saviour whom God had provided ? 
Onias heard all she advanced with patience more than usual , and only said that there was still too much of what was dark and unintelligible in the character of Jesus , and uncertain in his purposes , for any undoubting reliance to be placed either in him , or in those who thronged him so -- seeing that they could hardly pretend to comprehend a person , who to the most learned and penetrating was a mystery . 
I answered , that I had heard of it , and what was yet more I had myself heard most of the words he had spoken . 
They were as he had reported them , and in the minds of all who heard them had created such astonishment as he might suppose . 
`` But , '' I added , `` I doubt not , it is all by this time forgotten , or remembered only as one of those dark sayings , many of which are reported even by the disciples of Jesus , to fall from him in his discourses . '' 
`` Thou art more of Judith 's mind than I had believed , '' said Onias scornfully ; `` this momentary triumph of Jesus too much sways thee . '' 
I said , I had intended to add what would have shown that , notwithstanding the astonishing spectacle of to-day , I was still , in regard to my opinion of Jesus , what I had been . 
Though he at this moment , as I could not but think , truly possessed all the power I had given to him , I did not believe he would use it in the way I had hinted , though I confessed I hardly knew what to think or believe . 
It appeared to me that his whole character and aim were distinct from , or rather entirely opposed to , what belonged to the Christ . 
Jesus is a prophet only . 
The people of Jerusalem are , each day that they have listened to Jesus in the temple , becoming more and more devoted to him . 
Although the Council are as resolved as ever upon his destruction , and by their agents and spies , contrive to throw obstacles in his way , and do what they can to stir up the passions of the multitude against him , they meet with little success . 
The people gather around him , and listen to his instructions ; and going away , they lose all the enmity they had entertained against him in the softening influences of his word . 
They doubt not that he is indeed a great Prophet of God ; and they still hope , and while he lives , will hope , that he will declare himself the Christ by the signs they look for . 
Fuller and more exact accounts , my mother , than I have now given of the discourses of Jesus during these few days , shall you ere long receive from the records of Judith , who hears no word -- and she has heard all -- that she writes not down . 
It was on the second day before the Sabbath that , leaving the Temple , where I had been listening to the discourses of Jesus I was accosted by a familiar voice , and turning I beheld the Greek Zeno . 
While listening to Jesus , I had observed the presence of Zadok and Saturninus , but I had not caught the countenance of the friendly Greek . 
I greeted him , as you will suppose , with pleasure . 
He said that he had been two days in Jerusalem , having come up with others , among whom were Philæus and Lysias , with the purpose to see the wonderful Man of Nazareth . 
He was strictly a citizen of that city , and rarely strayed from its limits ; and nothing less than a desire to see a man , who seemed rather to be a God descended upon earth than an ordinary mortal , would have brought him so far , except also the circumstance that some Jews , proselytes from his people , accompanied him , through whom he was in hopes to see and converse with Jesus . 
I asked him if he had succeeded in obtaining access to him . 
He said that he had ; and that it was while he and his companions were still conversing with him , that the voice had been heard in the Temple which yesterday had filled all who were present with astonishment and dread , and startled the city itself . 
He needed no other evidence , he said , for himself , to be persuaded that Jesus was a messenger from Heaven . 
That voice was of no mortal tone -- it was the voice of an angel , or of a God , bearing testimony to Jesus . 
`` I am no Jew , '' said Zeno , `` but I am a believer in the Supreme God , and in the power of the senses to discern one thing from another , and form a just judgment ; and as certain as I am that I , Zeno of Cæsarea , was there in the Temple of Jerusalem , and in the presence of Jesus , so certain am I that the voice was the voice of a God , and not of a man ; and so I am sure thought , in their hearts , all who were there . 
My companions failed to compass the object for which they desired an interview with Jesus , -- relating , as I understood , to the government in Judea they believed him to be about to establish , and the place or employment they might obtain for themselves under it -- but they received convictions strong as my own , that he whom their conversation proved , as they judged , not to be the Messiah , was amply shown to be a messenger of God . 
Such was our interview , continued Zeno , with Jesus . 
I am truly glad to have seen and heard him ; for no other is like him , either in the form , the countenance , the voice , or the divine wisdom that flows from him as he speaks . 
I felt compassion for him , Julian , notwithstanding his wonderful power ; for he seemed as one who in the beginning of life is oppressed with presentiments of evil which it was impossible for him to escape . '' 
But when Judith had spoken of the triumph which Jesus had thus obtained over the Council through the universal homage of the people , and of the prospect which thus was held out of his continuing to teach the people even though he should never fill any other office , Saturninus said that for his part he could not but be under apprehensions for the safety of Jesus even yet . 
He had observed great activity among those whom he knew to be emissaries of the Priests , and had noted that Zadok especially , as he had met and spoken with him , wore upon his countenance an expression that signified a malignant satisfaction with some purpose or plan , whatever it might be , that was employing his thoughts . 
He had also received from Pilate orders to be vigilant beyond the usual measure , as if tumult was looked for . 
Yet his suspicions might be unreasonable and have grown out of his concern for the welfare of an innocent and righteous man . 
Onias thought it would by no means be wonderful , if a new exasperation existed in the minds of many who had heard him to day , seeing what the prophecies were which he had uttered . 
We also determined that on the morrow we would be together in the temple at the time Jesus should arrive from Bethany , which is ever about the third hour . 
His enemies have triumphed , and Jesus hangs crucified upon mount Calvary ! 
During the night , while friends were away , the city asleep , none suspecting the designs of the Council , Jesus was seized , carried before the Council , tried and condemned , the sentence confirmed by Pilate , and then before the third hour of the day , and before the knowledge of what had been done could spread abroad , was hurried without the walls and crucified . 
Grief and indignation are in every heart ; for , save the Priesthood and the Council , there were but few , who , though they believed not in Jesus , did not reverence his virtues and hope that he might show himself more and greater than his miracles had yet proved him . 
But though angry and disappointed , they raise no tumult , seeing that although , as they judged but yesterday , there was hope in Jesus , and they knew not what he might not be , -- felt that he might be anything , everything they wished , -- the event has resolved all their doubts , as it has finally and forever extinguished all their hopes . 
They grieve that being innocent he should suffer death to feed the hatred of the Rulers , but they acquiesce without further complaint , as they now know that their trust in him was delusive -- that he himself was deceived concerning his own character and office , and that they therefore had been placing their reliance on one in whom there was no help . 
-- She can hardly believe that he , who but yesterday was borne into the city on the arms of a whole people , should so soon have suffered a cruel and shameful death , crowds of that very people looking on , and uttering approving cries . 
When he was carried forth indeed to the Judgment Hall of Pilate , and was sent by him out of a feigned respect to Herod , great numbers of the populace were gathered together ; but it was not wonderful , as they beheld him wholly in the power of his enemies , submitting to his fate as if he no longer possessed any power of resistance or escape , that they should abandon him , as one who by such helplessness was shown not to be the person they had taken him for ; especially seeing that his own disciples lost their faith in him , and left him to his fate ; and that one of them bribed by the Council -- that thereby the rage of the people might be diverted in part at least from themselves -- accused him before them , and betrayed to their officers the place of his retreat on the Mount of Olives . 
Of the fortunes and the fate of Onias when , upon the crucifixion of Jesus and at the instigation of Herod -- now relieved of his most formidable foe and rival , whose death he celebrated on the day of his crucifixion by a banquet given to his friends -- he resumed the enterprises that had been interrupted since the first appearing of John , of my own fortunes during the same period , of the part I took in the defence of the city when beleaguered and finally destroyed by the Romans , and the scenes I then witnessed , of my intercourse with the early Christians , and the strange interpretation they came to put upon the character , and doctrine of Jesus , and their controversies with the Jews who , like myself , continued to deny him , I will also write , if concerning these things you should show the same desire to be informed . 
It is not necessary that I should say aught of the wonderful events that took place in Jerusalem , surpassing all preceding wonders , on that same day that we departed from it , since the writings of the followers of Jesus , in which they are truly recorded , have already become common . 
All that I shall add is this , that those wonders were witnessed by persons from all parts of the world , and received the same ready assent as the miracles of Jesus . 
Saturninus the Centurion -- and than he no man could have looked on with a calmer mind -- doubted not that Jesus was a prophet of God , declared then more especially to be so by the signs of anger or of compassion which nature gave , when they whom he came to serve and bless devoted him to the death of the cross . 
His rising from the dead also , in agreement with his prediction , a prediction which when it was uttered few understood or afterwards remembered , confirmed , not only by the testimony of his own disciples who saw him and conversed with him a long time after he came to life , but also by the soldiers who were set as a watch over the sepulchre , he considered as establishing the same thing . 
Doubtless they sufficiently proved him to be a messenger and prophet of God , at the same time that they failed to prove him the Messiah who had been foretold , for whom Israel had waited so long , and still waits . 
