`` You are homesick , Hector . '' 
rejoined Hector . 
exclaimed Hector . 
said Hector , ironically . 
She is rich , beautiful , and charming ; more than all , she loves you -- '' `` A woman , '' cried Hector , `` who holds human property ; who must have her slaves to wait upon her ; who would not give them up even for me ! 
Leaving his friend to proceed alone , Hector turned a corner , and walked , with folded arms , along a street brilliant with lighted saloons . 
Into one of these , led by the same habit of observing human nature which had prompted his visit to the south , Hector Dunbury strolled abstractedly . 
At the bar , Hector called for a glass of lemonade . 
he exclaimed , as the bar-tender was about to dash some brandy into the tumbler . 
As for your marvellous fiddler , '' -- and he turned his back , while Dickson staggered fiercely upon Hector . 
It was Dickson , whose drunken attack upon Hector had proved something of a failure , and who now , in consequence , lay in a disagreeable heap under the table , where he was trying to open the wall , mistaking it for the door . 
Meanwhile , Hector had taken his seat in the corner , with his lemonade before him . 
Dickson , who had by this time crept from under the table , muttering revenge , indicated Hector with his tipsy fist . 
Hector sipped his lemonade coolly , but made no reply . 
`` No , '' replied Hector , `` unless I am to take the duck 's word . '' 
The next instant , the contents of Hector 's glass were streaming from his brows , and eyes , and beard ; and Hector stood upon his feet , pale , but firm , grasping the empty tumbler in his hand . 
He drew it , and levelled it at Hector . 
But quick as thought it flew to the ceiling , struck up by a swift blow from his adversary 's hand . 
Hector leaped aside , and the blow intended for him fell upon the crown of the dancing cotton-dealer . 
cried Hector , stepping back . 
There was something in his tone and look which betokened a roused and dangerous spirit . 
On the instant , the empty glass , which was Hector 's only weapon , was shivered in the face of his antagonist ; who , stunned and gashed , dropped upon one knee , letting fall his weapon , and supporting himself with his hand upon the floor . 
Hector was unhurt ; and , the moment he saw his adversary down , he sprang to raise him up , and helped him to a chair . 
`` We will talk of that , '' said Hector . 
His brow was cut , and the blinding blood that streamed down into his eyes rendered him incapable of offering any opposition . 
Hector removed the fragments of glass from the wound , and tied his own handkerchief about it , to staunch the blood . 
Hector , therefore , who exercised neither pistols nor profanity , bid fair to become the next victim . 
He stood , with calm dignity , confronting the officers , when a demonstration on the part of the doctor caused a diversion in another direction . 
The latter had been some moments on his feet , looking about him savagely from beneath his bandaged brows , for his bowie-knife , which Hector had kicked under the chair ; and , now perceiving it , he clutched it fiercely , and rushed upon his late antagonist . 
Hector 's back was towards him ; and the armed hand was already raised to smite him , when a policeman , seizing the opportunity , stepped behind the assailant , and felled him to the floor . 
Hector was untouched ; and while the officers rushed upon the doctor to secure his weapons and bind his hands , the young man , taking quite an unceremonious leave of the company , walked quietly and quickly out at the door . 
he exclaimed , in accents of loathing , as he fled from the spot . 
He shook the dust from his feet ; and , perceiving a fountain running in the street , stooped instinctively to wash his hands . 
When he would have wiped them , he remembered that he had bound his handkerchief upon his adversary 's head . 
said he . 
The doctor talked desperately of revenge ; and so far enlisted the sympathies of his guide , that the latter not only promised to assist him in ascertaining Hector 's name and address , but , arrived at a street-corner , he restored his weapons , and shook hands with him , swearing an eternal friendship , and bidding him an affecting good-night . 
Although a man of fallen fortunes , much of the haughty Englishman 's pride -- now grown sensitive and sore -- adhered to him in his depressed condition ; and he experienced a sort of inward fury at the thought that he , a Dunbury , should ever be placed in so ridiculous a position . 
How 's Mis ' Dunbury ? 
She will be better soon , however , I hope , for we expect Hector -- '' Phœbe , with a start and a blush : `` Hector ! 
Mr. Jackwood : `` Sartin , neighbor Dunbury ; anything I 've got , you 're welcome to . '' 
cries the young girl , animated , `` Hector Dunbury is coming to-night ! 
He will go right by here . 
We 'll be on the look-out , and see him . '' 
Still no Hector . 
`` Nothing but the hope of seeing Hector seems to sustain her , '' answered Bertha , with a slight tremor in her tone . 
`` Is Hector coming ? '' 
`` Yes ; he wrote that he would be here to-night , '' -- Miss Wing dropped her eyes . 
`` I think it will be well for his mother ; she pines for him , as if he were her life . '' 
Hector would not come ; all hope of recovering was past ; and she assured Miss Wing , with pathetic earnestness , that she had but a few minutes to live . 
Not that her spirit departed , but that Hector arrived . 
said Hector , in a voice full of tenderness and cheer , when she had clung spasmodically to his neck for some seconds . 
Hector snapped his fingers : `` So much for your tonics ! 
This is what I mean , '' -- pressing her hand to his heart , -- `` sympathy , sympathy ! 
At mention of his father , Hector 's head sank upon his breast ; but , recovering himself , he looked up , pressing the invalid 's hand . 
Hector turned his fine eyes up with a look of aspiration , which thrilled his mother . 
Hector started . 
-- Hector turned to the vials and cups on the table . 
Hector looked horrified : `` Medicines ! 
`` You frighten me , Hector . 
Such was Mrs. Dunbury 's confidence in Hector , that she acceded at once to his proposal . 
Hector , with a queer expression : `` Can not , eh ? 
Hector 's good-nature was irresistible . 
said his mother to the dismayed Bertha . 
Hector , going : `` I see the table is waiting , out there ; and I have the appetite of a lion ! 
Hector , advancing : `` Why not ? '' 
Hector , dogmatically : `` Ca n't help it ! 
Meantime Hector , retiring to the sitting-room , and seating himself at his mother 's seraphine , near the open door , played `` Sweet Home '' with exquisite tenderness of expression . 
Bertha ran to him in haste : `` She is crying ! 
Hector , striking up a plaintive Scotch air : `` Have you no confidence in the new physician ? 
With Hector 's eyes upon her , with his lips so near her face , a strange trouble held poor Bertha as by a spell . 
Hector struck into an inspiring melody , full of laughter and tears , which ran somehow into the grand movement of a spirited march . 
He had not ended when , at a cry of alarm from Bertha , he looked up , and saw his mother , dressed all in white , approaching , with uplifted hand , like a somnambule . 
Nothing disconcerted , he fixed his eyes upon her bright , dilating orbs , and poured all the fire and energy of his soul into the concluding strains . 
Hector caught her in his arms . 
A few minutes later , Bertha Wing , in the bed-chamber , heard a well-known touch : it was not Hector 's : yet she could scarce credit her senses , until she looked , and , behold ! 
cried the joyous Hector , when his mother had finished ; `` you may take our patient now , and put her to bed . '' 
Late that night , when all was still in the house , Hector left his chamber , and went forth into the open air . 
Towards this he wandered away in the silent night . 
But the old path , by which he used to stray , was overgrown . 
And the sloping turf beneath the butternut-tree , whereon he used to lie in the hot midsummer noons , and listen to the purling water and the humming bees , -- the dear old turf was gone ; the freshet floods had lapped it away ; and in its place appeared an abrupt bank , covered with high grass . 
Hector wept as he listened ; for in that plaintive ripple what voices spoke to him out of the past ! 
Rousing himself from these dreams , he was returning to his chamber , when , as he approached the porch , he heard a fluttering among the leaves , and saw a figure start up from the bench . 
Hector , kindly : `` Go in , good Bertha . 
Not now , -- do n't , Hector ! '' 
He loosed his hold , and the next moment stood alone under the porch . 
`` I declare , '' thought he , as he bit his lip , -- perhaps it itched a little , -- `` that girl is in love ! 
Hector sighed ; retired to his room ; went to bed ; remained as broad awake as an owl for three mortal hours ; then , lapsing lightly into oblivion , slept till the crowing of the cock . 
Unable to close his eyes again , he turned his face to the window , and lay watching the brightening of the east through a notch in the mountains . 
First a few gray streaks ; then a ruddy glow ; and at last up came the sun , like a great fiery spider , on his web of beams . 
Up got Hector , also , pulled on his clothes , and , stepping out upon the balcony over the porch , inflated his lungs in the fresh morning air . 
Then he went down stairs , and , learning from Bertha that his mother was awake , hastened to her chamber . 
He found her shedding tears . 
he cried . 
Bertha : `` I should be glad to stay , -- but -- it will be better -- '' She hesitated , blushed , and dropped her eyes before Hector 's piercing look . 
Neither his persuasive eloquence nor Mrs. Dunbury 's tears could move her . 
Had Hector guessed her secret , would he have opposed her ? 
cried Hector . 
The glory of the morning , and the beauty of the scenery , inspired Hector ; a full joy flowed out of his soul , rippling and sparkling in words , and bathing his fine face . 
She was glad when the pain of separation came , and Hector helped her down at her father 's house . 
`` And if there a n't Hector Dunbury ! 
`` I just reined up , '' replied Hector , shaking hands with the delighted old lady . 
Hector sat down in the door , and broached the subject of Bertha 's return ; Bertha , meanwhile , laying off her bonnet and shawl with an air of gentle firmness , which sufficiently expressed her intention to remain where she was . 
This was certainly a fair proposition ; and Hector , jumping into the buggy , drove up to the dilapidated old house where Sam Fos dick 's daughters lived . 
Hector , retreating : `` Certainly not ! 
Hector , with exemplary self-denial : `` Excuse me , Miss Matilda , but I am really afraid you are making too great a sacrifice of feeling , and I am unwilling to remove you out of your sphere . '' 
He took leave politely . 
Diverted by the adventure , Hector returned to the other house . 
He was met by old Mrs. Wing at the gate . 
asked Hector . 
`` Mr. Rukely , '' -- Hector scratched his ear , -- `` Mr. Rukely , Mr. Rukely ! 
whistled Hector . 
exclaimed Hector . 
He paused at the door , struck with sudden surprise . 
Notwithstanding his father 's favorable report of Charlotte , he was altogether unprepared to see so peculiar and striking a countenance . 
The intuitive Hector felt a strange influence steal over him ; and all her sorrows , the depth , the sweetness of her spirit , seemed revealed to him . 
On her part , she did not venture to return his earnest gaze . 
But something in the tones of his voice startled her . 
She stole an anxious glance at his face ; and instantly the blood rushed suffocatingly upon her heart , the room grew misty , and her head sank upon the bed near which she sat . 
Hector , with instinctive delicacy of feeling , had walked to the open door , and now stood with folded arms , gazing out upon the fair mountain scenery . 
This was a relief to Charlotte ; she made a strong effort to control herself , and appear calm ; yet when he turned again , her spirit was all weak and tremulous , like a reed bending under the weight of a bird . 
Hector , however , betrayed no sign of recognition . 
Hector was but too eager to accept it . 
Then she endeavored , falteringly , to excuse herself ; but he would not consent to release her , and she saw no way left but to accompany him . 
Hector was helping Charlotte into the buggy . 
He seemed to hold her hand with a lingering pressure ; his features beamed with satisfaction ; he looked the very picture of manly grace . 
A prospect of Alpine loveliness opened before Hector and Charlotte , as they emerged from a shady dingle not far from Mr. Wing 's house . 
Hector pointed out to his companion his father 's house , Mr. Jackwood 's , and two or three little villages nestled in green spots up and down the creek . 
But , somehow , he could not talk to her as he had talked to Bertha . 
He could neither be frivolous nor sentimental . 
Something in her character seemed to demand a tone of remark which a gentleman -LRB- Hector considered himself one -RRB- could not , consistently with the views of society , freely address to a stranger in her position . 
Well , Corny had that morning harnessed the horse for Hector , and placed him before the buggy . 
He had also discovered that the spring which secured the eye of one of the traces in its hook was loose , and might drop off . 
It did not , however , occur to him that a few seasonable strokes of the hammer might be of service in preventing the dislocation of necks ; nor did he mention the circumstance to Hector . 
Hector , accordingly , knew nothing of the danger , until , as he was driving down a gentle slope , he heard something rattle on the ground . 
The horse jumped ; one trace still held ; the buggy was brought violently against his gambrels ; a kick -- a spring -- and in an instant of time the frightened brute was making wild , irregular leaps down the declivity . 
Hector prided himself on his management of horses . 
Never , with the reins in his own hands , had he met with an accident . 
He did not lose his presence of mind ; yet clear-headed , resolute , vigilant as he was , he could devise no way of averting a catastrophe . 
If he held hard on the reins , he but drew the vehicle more closely upon the horse 's heels ; and to attempt to drive into the fence with the shafts on the ground , would have been certain destruction . 
He might , at the outset , have jumped out , and , by the exercise of superior agility , stopped both horse and wagon ; but Charlotte clung to his arm , and held him fast . 
Hector had no fear for himself . 
His only care was for his companion . 
But for the tight clasp on his arm , he would have known nothing of the terror that froze at her heart . 
She did not scream , nor speak one word , from first to last ; and when , in a clear , firm voice , he told her what to do , it seemed the only way , and the right way , and she obeyed at once . 
Hector could not assist her ; it required all his skill to manage the horse , and keep the shafts in the track . 
Not until he had given her ample time to save herself , did he venture to look around . 
She had climbed over the seat , and dropped down behind ; and he had a momentary glimpse of her lying upon her face in the road , quite still , as she had fallen . 
Hector was now travelling at a speed that could not last long . 
He approached a curve in the road , and the track , which had offered little impediment to the shafts thus far , grew rough and stony . 
The buggy began to bound and reel ; and , expecting momently to go over , he prepared to throw the reins clear of everything , and fall in as compact a shape as possible , when the crisis arrived . 
Suddenly , looking before , to calculate his ground , he saw a man , scarce five rods distant , driving lazily up the mountain . 
He seemed asleep ; his head was sunk upon his breast , the reins hung loosely in his hands . 
Hector rose up , bareheaded , his hair flying , and shouted the alarm . 
To the man , who started bewildered from his nap , and saw swift ruin dashing down upon him in such a form , he looked more like a fiend than anything human . 
Over went the broken seat , and up got Hector from under it . 
He was a frightful-looking object , covered from head to foot with dirt , his hair all over his face , and one sleeve of his coat rent away from the shoulder . 
At first he looked vacantly around , knowing not at all where he was or what had happened ; but presently , spitting out a mouthful of earth , and putting his hair from his eyes , he stared at the heap which had been a buggy , and began to remember . 
cried Hector , still a little wild . 
Hector hastened up the road to find Charlotte . 
Stunned by the fall , Charlotte lay for some seconds in the road ; then got upon her feet and began to walk very fast up the hill , in pursuit of Hector 's hat . 
Reflecting , suddenly , however , that she ought rather to look after the head it belonged to , she turned , and , now fully awake , ran , in great trepidation , to learn what had become of Hector . 
She met him coming up the road . 
she cried out , at sight of him . 
Hector declared , stoutly . 
I tell you , '' said Hector , `` after running such a rig , it 's rather exhilarating to think there 's no damage done which money and a little salve wo n't repair ! '' 
Hector misjudged the people in question , and afterwards asked their forgiveness in his heart . 
Hector washed himself , combed his hair , and brushed his clothes , while one of them pinned up his sleeve , and prepared a plaster for his lip . 
Then , leaving Charlotte in their care , he returned to the wreck . 
`` And our necks , '' suggested Hector . 
Answering these questions briefly , Hector proposed to Mr. Crumlett to carry him home . 
`` O , '' replied Hector with a quiet smile , `` you are in a hurry ? 
Accordingly Mr. Crumlett took on board the buggy-cushions , with a few other fragments of the wreck ; assisted his `` old acquaintance '' to make a compact heap of the remainder on the road-side ; and , finally , with Hector and Charlotte as passengers , turned his horses ' heads down the mountain . 
Occasionally , at Hector 's instigation , he flourished his whip , and clucked a little to his horses ; but those grave animals were not to be urged out of their comfortable pace by any such gentle means . 
Meanwhile , anxious to learn the fate of his own horse , Hector inquired for him on the way . 
He had been seen by several persons , who described him as going very fast , with the reins streaming from his back , and `` one tug whipping his side to make him go faster . '' 
Hector 's spirits rose . 
`` Blessed pedler , '' said he in his heart , `` go thy way , and be happy . 
Hector swung his hat . 
Then straightway out ran Mrs. Dunbury , her face white and wild , hair dishevelled , cape falling from her shoulders , and threw herself upon Hector 's neck , as he jumped from the wagon . 
A few stifled words , a few choking sobs and tears , and , her excited strength relaxing , she sank fainting in his arms . 
With Charlotte 's ready assistance Hector bore her into the house . 
Presently her eyes opened languidly , and her grateful look wandered from Hector to his companion . 
From the moment of peril , when Hector felt Charlotte 's womanly clasp upon his arm , they had ceased to be strangers ; and , still glowing with the generous heat with which her sympathy inspired him , he introduced her to his mother . 
Hector inquired for his father . 
Hector hastened to explain . 
said Corny , notching a stick with his knife . 
Hector : `` Why did n't you tell me the spring was loose ? '' 
-- Punching him with the broom . 
asked the invalid , clinging to Hector 's hand . 
Hector found Mr. Crumlett sitting patiently in his wagon , whipping the gate-post . 
Hector paid him , and asked if he would stop to dinner . 
`` Put your horses in the barn , and cut as much grass for them as you choose , '' said Hector . 
Hector makes epigrams upon a certain leadenhued contusion under Charlotte 's eye ; upon his own lameness , and the cut in his lip ; and upon other pleasing results of the disaster . 
Then , to enliven a dull company of evening visitors , who have called in honor of his return to Huntersford , he announces that he will deliver an entertaining and instructive lecture on the subject , accompanied with music by his mother , and illustrated by original pen-and-ink sketches . 
Mrs. Dunbury joins in the general merriment , -- more quietly than any of the rest ; but her pride in Hector makes her very happy . 
Hector limps three weeks with his bruises ; and Charlotte carries the dark-colored mark under her eye for nearly the same length of time . 
Hector is a good physician , Charlotte a capital companion and nurse . 
She would be true to her promise , and abide by Hector 's treatment ; but daily , by mere infirmity of will , she finds herself transgressing his commandments . 
Hector perceived something of this , and , going to his mother , by the very force of his simple and earnest dealing , compelled a confession . 
One by one she abandoned all her hidden drugs to his mercy , reserving only a modest lump of rhubarb , and a couple of favorite pills . 
That morning she ate the last of the rhubarb ; the next , she swallowed one of the pills , and in the afternoon sent the other to keep that company ; and , on the third day , in great extremity , she had recourse to Hector . 
Hector cruelly ordered a pitcher of warm water ; and , from that time , emetics of that simple nature were the sole consolation he would afford her , when she hungered and thirsted after drugs . 
cried Hector , one fine morning , at the breakfast-table , -- `` these trifles are unworthy of us . 
Mrs. Dunbury , with a beseeching look : `` Do n't , I pray -- at the breakfast-table , Hector ! '' 
Hector , gravely : `` Our nearest neighbors , mother . 
Hector : `` That 's all very nice , without doubt ; but how do you suppose you and I would feel with great iron hooks through our backs , -- let down into a city of hungry lawyers , for instance , -- with some big giant swinging us from the end of a long pole ? '' 
Hector : `` I 've no answer to make . 
At nine o'clock , Mrs. Dunbury looked out of her window , and saw the mowers in the meadow , with Hector at their head , cutting into the tall grass with uniform strokes , and laying the swaths in even lines behind them . 
Hector marched at their head , singing a negro melody . 
Corny brought up the rear , whittling his snath with a jacknife . 
The cheerful ring of the stone upon the metal beat a measured accompaniment to Hector 's singing , -- only Corny striking occasionally a little out of time . 
She stood hesitating in the meadow , when Hector ceased singing , and called out to her with a cheery welcome , as he threw down his scythe . 
Hector : `` Would you quite as lief do that as mow ? '' 
And Hector coolly walked off with the fishing-pole , leaving the chagrined Corny to stare at him , with perplexed and disappointed looks , over his scythe . 
Hector stepped to the young girl 's side , as she was returning towards the stream . 
The glance of his eye and the gentle tones of his voice stirred a strange and happy emotion in her heart ; and she had no power to resist the influence that drew her to his side . 
`` Your pickerel , '' said Hector , `` is the very attorney of fishes . 
Hector entertained his companion with this sage dissertation upon the character and habits of the pickerel , as they walked along by the willows and crossed the bridge together . 
Hector 's eyes sparkled , as he arranged the fatal snare . 
laughed Charlotte , as the fish deliberately took his nose out of the wire loop , and with one stroke of his tail propelled himself into a knot of grass . 
exclaimed Hector . 
At this crisis , Charlotte could not help reminding him of what he had preached , that morning , to Corny . 
interrupted Hector . 
A sudden pull , -- snap went the pole , -- and away darted the pickerel up stream , with the wire jerked tightly under his gills , and the line streaming after him through the water . 
He was out of sight in an instant ; but the tip of the spruce pole , to which the line was attached , swimming on the surface , served as a buoy to mark his course . 
exclaimed Hector . 
The new snare was scarcely rigged , when the pickerel , having got clear of his encumbrance , reäppeared in his favorite haunt , looking very impudent , as if he had returned in a spirit of litigation , to learn what it was all about . 
Hector , accordingly , proceeded to demonstrate the matter , by adroitly slipping a second noose over his gills . 
Another pull , -- and his pickerelship , leaping with a sudden splash out of the water , slipped from the snare and fell flouncing in Charlotte 's lap , as she was sitting on the grass . 
She flung him off , with a scream ; and the next moment he was threshing the shallow water in a small stone basin below , when Hector seized him , and cast him upon dry land . 
cried Hector . 
`` Come around by the bridge , then , and be respectable , '' said Hector . 
`` Go it , '' he cried ; `` ' t a n't deep ! '' 
`` But you never waded in this spot , '' said Hector . 
Corny , yelling and clapping his hands : `` Swim ! 
Hector , extending his fish-pole : `` Catch this ! '' 
She grasped it eagerly , and Hector drew her to the bank . 
Hector : `` And making believe dive , too , Bridget ! '' 
Hector : `` I 'll get it for you . '' 
Hector , raising a drenched rag on the end of his fishing-pole : `` Here 's your bonnet ! '' 
Hector asked the latter if he heard . 
Hector , severely : `` Is that what you mean by coming ? '' 
`` Come , Charlotte , '' said Hector , `` let us get away from the hearing of this . 
The fields lay fragrant and fair before her ; and to go out there , alone with him , into the beauty and calm of the valley , seemed an almost intoxicating happiness . 
Charlotte hesitated ; but he said `` Come ! '' 
`` Yes , yes , '' returned Hector , with a strange fervor in his tones , `` I 'll be responsible , I 'll be anything for the sake of your company . '' 
Hector turned upon her a look so radiant and tender that it thrilled her through and through . 
`` Aside from my mother , '' said he , `` you are the only person I see in whose society I take any satisfaction ; and you know it . '' 
Hector looked at her inquiringly , then , walking near her side , took her hand ; but she withdrew it gently . 
he cried out , impulsively . 
Hector seized her hand again , and held it clasped in his , in spite of her . 
`` If they are ever subdued , '' said Hector . 
Hector spoke with a vehemence that appeared to alarm his companion . 
he went on , smiling gently . 
`` And yet , '' cried Hector , `` the idea is not so absurd as you imagine ! 
`` You have not -- it was nothing you said -- '' `` And yet , '' insisted Hector , `` I touched some chord that suffering has made sensitive . 
Hector held her wrist and looked down earnestly in her face . 
`` Hector , you have been true to me , and I can not deceive you . 
Hector became pale with apprehension . 
`` Show me that gulf , '' he said , with an incredulous smile . 
Hector 's brow was overcast ; but , seeing how strangely sad and fair she looked , with her large eyes drooping under his searching gaze , he placed his finger , playfully , under her chin , and met her upward glance with a generous smile . 
`` Pardon me , '' he said , in a low , musical tone . 
But Hector 's heart was no longer in his sport . 
There were no fish at the bridge worth catching , he said . 
He could not think of that ; the charm of leading her through those sweet solitudes was too pleasant to be broken . 
`` Do not be faint-hearted , '' said he . 
And Charlotte still had power to do only what he asked , and follow where he led . 
At this pleasant juncture , a voice hailed from below ; and Hector and Charlotte appeared , coming around a clump of bushes that grew upon the point of a knoll . 
Thereupon Rover , swimming to the bank , ran joyfully to his old acquaintance , and attempted to leap into her face , with intent to lick . 
So Rover shook himself again , and set out to rub himself dry on Hector 's trousers . 
But , being caught up suddenly by the legs , he described in the air , first a half-circle , then a tangent , then a gentle curve , -- and afterwards came up , snuffing and paddling , in mid-channel , before he appeared to understand at all the nature of the phenomenon that had surprised him . 
Hector , to the old lady : `` What have you got there , grandmother ? '' 
Hector , gravely : `` It might have been expected . 
At this point , finding it difficult to restrain her emotions at sight of her old friend , Charlotte set out to make the Jackwoods a visit , leaving Hector to get the cast-away off the rock . 
demanded Hector . 
If you keep on , you will get to have quite a Christian temper , '' said Hector , `` by the time you are old . '' 
The boat had gone aground upon a sand-bar near the bank , and Hector , reaching it with his fishing-pole , drew it towards him , and dragged it upon the shore . 
he cried ; `` the craft stands in need of repairs . '' 
Having emptied the water , fagots and all , into the creek , he deliberately set about calking the boat with the old lady 's apron . 
`` Do so , '' said Hector ; `` and you will save me this trouble . 
As she gave no decided indication of going up , he went on with his calking , sparing no expense of time or calico in stopping the leaks . 
Having accomplished his work to his satisfaction , he launched the boat , jumped aboard with his fishing-pole , shoved out to the rock , and brought the old lady safe to land . 
Accordingly , while Hector was picking the seams of her apron out of the seams of the boat , she commenced a similar operation upon Charlotte 's character . 
`` She 's a gal ' t means well , -- I can say that for her , '' she began , her fear of Hector preventing her from approaching the subject too openly , -- `` and when that 's the case , I 'm sure we 'd oughter kinder lend a helpin ' hand to anybody , no matter ' f they 've ben the wust critturs ' t ever lived . '' 
Hector was interested ; but , pretending indifference , he continued to pick away at the old lady 's apron . 
As it was the first intelligence of the kind Hector had received , it troubled him , his mind naturally reverting to what Charlotte had that morning said of her past life . 
The story was one that the old lady could not have invented ; and the confident manner in which she identified Miss Woods with the girl at North Nincum produced an overwhelming effect upon Hector . 
Meanwhile , in company with the bitter old lady , he arrived at the house . 
-- `` Sed down , Hector , -- I ca n't make it come handy to call you Mr. Dunbury . 
Hector 's eyes followed her with a searching look , which startled her , as she turned and caught his eye . 
And , with a disconsolate air , grandmother Rigglesty fumbled in her bag for the Good Samaritan , and consulted him in her trouble , as of old . 
Having dried her eyes , she looked down and saw Rover wagging his tail , and regarding her with an expression that seemed to say , `` Did n't we have capital fun ? '' 
As she spoke , Rover rallied , and , making a pounce at the Good Samaritan , seized him with his teeth and paws , and began to shake and tear him , in a prodigious sham fury . 
The poor dog was at last fairly cornered , and the forked thunderbolt was about to fall prone upon the head and front of his offending , when the door was opportunely opened , and Bim made his appearance , blustering . 
he cried , -- `` cut ! '' 
At the word , with craven head , and tail depressed , Rover darted between the legs of his young master , and whisked out of the house , while the tongs came down upon the floor behind him with a jar which filled the old lady 's arm with stings , from the fingers to the elbow . 
After that , there was a lull , -- Mrs. Rigglesty heating her feet at the stove , with now and then a deep , prolonged sigh of ostentatious suffering ; Bim looking sheepish , and drumming on the window , as Charlotte inquired about his health and spirits ; Hector twirling his hat ; and Mrs. Jackwood apologizing . 
`` When you have come to my years , '' said Hector , `` you will have learned to beware of extra pretensions . 
`` If she was a child of mine '' -- said Hector . 
That Hector 's jes ' like his father , for all the world , -- only more so , if anything ! '' 
Bim , following the visitors to the gate , gave vent to his feelings in breathing defiance against the old lady . 
Hector : `` I take it , then , she blows you up , sometimes . '' 
-- Bim swung his head , with a swaggering expression . 
It was heaviest and chillest when Hector was nearest . 
Through it his smiles looked cold , and his laugh sounded hard and hollow to her ear . 
He appeared to notice her but little , but went bowling large stones along the road ; sometimes throwing them high in the air , and catching them dexterously as they came down . 
said Hector , `` there 's unexpected game ! '' 
She ran up to the fence , and Hector reached over to her . 
And , placing her finger in her mouth , he closed her teeth upon it . 
`` That 's just like you , Hector Dunbury ! 
Would n't he , Charlotte ? '' 
`` If anything could frighten him , '' said Charlotte . 
Phœbe handed the book to Charlotte through the rails ; then , having passed her pail of water over to Hector , and asked him to turn around , and not look , she began to climb the fence . 
Hector made a cup of a basswood-leaf , and , having filled it for Charlotte to drink , and afterwards drank out of it himself , shook the water from it into Phœbe 's face . 
added Hector , in a changed tone . 
He walked away with Charlotte in silence , leaving the gay Phœbe to roll the cobble carefully in her apron , and carry it to the house with her pail of water . 
Scarce another word was spoken by either Hector or his companion , until they reached home . 
rejoined Hector . 
`` Because , '' said Hector , perceiving her thoughts , `` I have made a discovery . '' 
The word fell upon her heart with stunning power ; for a moment nerve and breath and strength were taken away , and she wished that she might fall down at Hector 's feet , and never rise up more . 
`` It is , '' he added , smiling bitterly , -- `` I have left my fishing-pole at Mr. Jackwood 's ! '' 
He strode through the hall ; while Charlotte , following , and finding her way to her room , sank , almost lifelessly , upon her bed , and lay there in trance-like despair , until the harsh voice of Bridget came to announce that the pickerel was on the table , and the dinner waiting . 
Fromthat day Hector 's conduct towards Charlotte was marked by strange inconsistencies . 
Sometimes , spontaneously , from his lips the tenderest words fell like warm rain upon the flowers of her heart ; then the lightning of his wit flashed out upon her , sharp and sudden , from the cloud of his bitter melancholy ; or the cold breath of his assumed indifference chilled her like the north wind . 
One day , when she had suffered extremely from his fitful treatment , Mrs. Dunbury called her to her side . 
Let us be true , let us be friends indeed , Charlotte , if not for my sake or yours , then for my son 's -- for Hector 's . '' 
-- `` You will tell me if I am wrong , but I think -- I am sure -- Hector loves you ! '' 
`` He dislikes me ! 
-- you know he does ! '' 
But I imagined he had made advances to you -- '' `` Never ! 
`` You will pardon me , then , for troubling you , '' said the invalid ; `` but , O , '' -- with starting tears , -- `` if you but knew how much his destiny depends upon the affections of his heart ! 
But I can never be Hector 's -- he can never be mine ! '' 
`` One word , '' said Mrs. Dunbury , in a faint voice ; `` could you love him ? '' 
Cover it up , -- cover it , by all means , from him , -- until he calls for it . '' 
`` He will never call for it ! 
And if he should , '' exclaimed Charlotte , `` I could not give it him ! 
It will be better for me , -- better for you and him . '' 
Hector entered , and threw himself upon a chair , while the curtains of the recess , behind which she had hastily taken refuge , were still rustling . 
Mrs. Dunbury changed her tactics : `` You should be married , Hector . '' 
Hector shuddered . 
He took up a book . 
But , having commenced to sound him on a subject near to her heart , his mother pursued it still . 
added Hector , with a smile , glancing towards the recess . 
`` Mother , '' said Hector , severely , `` if you jest , your wit is unseasonable . 
`` That 's a foolish question , Hector . '' 
Hector threw down the book , and left the room . 
At that moment Hector returned for his hat . 
Taking it from the table , he passed on , and opened the curtains before the recess where the girl had stood . 
asked his mother . 
Therewas to be a wedding in the village , to which the Dunburys were invited ; and it devolved upon Hector to represent the family . 
To his mother 's surprise and gratification , he engaged to undertake the responsibility , upon one condition . 
`` Charlotte , '' said he , `` shall go with me . '' 
Notwithstanding , therefore , certain forebodings she had , she suffered herself to be overcome by solicitation , and gave her promise to accompany Hector . 
said Hector , as he drove away . 
Arrived at the bride 's house , Hector and Charlotte were ushered into the presence of a large company in a crowded apartment , -- some silent , some conversing in subdued voices , and all very solemn . 
`` If I had never been to a wedding before , '' whispered Hector , `` I should think we had made a mistake , and got into a funeral . '' 
Hector turned with a smile which sent the blood tingling to her cheeks . 
Hector : `` So you may say of a drowning man ! '' 
Hector : `` Amen , with all my heart ! 
Hector : `` Come and see me , and I 'll give you something better . '' 
Hector : `` Some good advice . '' 
`` My child , '' said Hector , kindly , drawing her towards him , `` I like you '' -- he dropped his voice -- `` much better than I like your verses . 
Hector smiled : `` The truth , simply . 
There was a good deal of disapprobation expressed , in an indirect way , against Hector 's proceeding , generally by those who experienced a secret joy at the young prodigy 's discomfiture . 
`` Charlotte , '' -- a deep emotion struggled in Hector 's voice , -- `` I could endure that every person here to-night should misjudge me , malign me , think me ill-natured and egotistical , except you ! '' 
Had she not believed and preached to her poor heart , night and day , that there was , there could be , no one single slenderest tie of sympathy between her and Hector ? 
`` I was cruel , '' said he , `` because I would be kind . 
He had taken Hector 's place at her side . 
But his words rustled merely , and fell away from her like husks . 
He left her to give room to others . 
Her mind was with Hector . 
Amid all the throng and buzz , she saw his form and heard the music of his voice alone . 
Until ONE came between her and him . 
She felt a powerful impulse to tell Hector everything , throw herself upon his mercy , and then , if he cast her from him -- Cast her from him ! 
The thought chilled her ; and when , at length , she heard a hand on the latch , she shrank within herself , and would , if possible , have fled even from his sight . 
But the comer was not Hector . 
At that moment Hector entered . 
Etty tried to escape , but he caught her in his arms . 
She hid her face ; and Hector kissed her forehead . 
`` I believed that you had a true heart , and a real desire to do well , '' he said , kindly ; `` so I thought it best to tell you of your faults , in order that you might correct them . 
Hector kissed her again , and told her that she might go . 
How noble and good he seemed to Charlotte then ! 
He had touched a chord that had never been touched before . 
As he was about to speak again , the door opened . 
`` Is that you , Hector ? 
`` We have just been getting a little acquainted , '' said Hector , giving Etty into her brother 's arms . 
Etty , struggling from him , reached the door and escaped . 
He followed her , pausing , as he went , to apologize once more for his intrusion . 
Then Hector , impatient , closed the door , and returned to Charlotte 's side . 
He gave her his hand ; but , rising up , she tottered to the window . 
exclaimed Hector . 
She made haste to find her things and put them on ; and by the time he returned , she was ready to accompany him . 
His buggy was at the door ; he helped her in ; then , seated by his side , with the darkness of the road before them , the lighted windows behind , and the silence and the starlight all around , the excitement which had nerved her flight subsided , and she sank helpless as an infant on his arm . 
At length , putting his arm gently away : `` How inconsistent I must appear to you ! 
said Hector . 
Hector went on talking , but Charlotte heard no more . 
She did not answer when he spoke to her . 
She tried to tell Hector all her fear and despair ; but misgivings chilled her heart , and sealed her lips , and sent her to her lonely room , that night , with the heavy secret of her life still pent up in her soul . 
cried Hector . 
Hector : `` And we are to have company , you remember . '' 
Charlotte glanced at Hector . 
His countenance was overcast , but he raised no further objection to the plan ; and accordingly word was sent back that she would accompany Phœbe . 
have Robert and Hector come up and take tea with us ! 
I knowed ' t was in ye to do it , when I spoke for you to Hector ; but , re ` ly , I 'm the least mite took back to see you lookin ' so verynice an ' handsome ! '' 
I wish Hector and Rob Greenwich was here ! 
Phœbe : `` I thought I saw Rob Greenwich and Hector ; but it is only a couple of horses fighting flies by the fence . 
Phœbe : `` I should n't wonder if ' t was Robert and Hector . 
Besides , I -- I do n't think it can be Hector . 
He never shoots . '' 
`` He used to , and I bet he would n't object , if Rob Greenwich should coax him ! 
`` I do not understand -- you are speaking of -- '' `` Hector ! '' 
It 's Hector and Robert , just as I told you . 
The shantee was dark ; and Hector and Robert , entering , did not readily recognize the inmates . 
`` Hector ! 
Hector ! 
Hector : `` Fight your own battles . 
Hector threw down his game . 
Hector : `` I did not think that I should ever again take delight in shooting these pretty fan-tails . 
Hector turned over his game : `` Two , four , six , -- I killed them all ! 
`` I declare , Hector Dunbury ! '' 
And , with affected formality , Hector went through with the neglected ceremony . 
`` Hector insinuates that I am quite a formidable sinner ; but we all know him . '' 
cried Hector . 
Hector turned to Mr. Rukely . 
demanded Hector . 
Hector regarded her with a questioning look , and turned his head slowly away . 
Hector and Robert are expected to be of our party , and take tea with us . '' 
Hector : `` We have our squirrels and guns to carry . '' 
Hector : `` You 'll be shooting some one . 
Hector and Miss Wing will lead the way . '' 
Hector consented reluctantly , and went forward with Bertha . 
Hector is suspicious . 
Hector and Robert reached the spot simultaneously . 
Hector flung a sharp reprimand at Robert , for trusting Phœbe with the gun . 
Bertha had heard the whistle ; so had Hector . 
`` He has no more heart or conscience than a stone , '' said Hector . 
Hector , regarding her darkly : `` Man is a deceiver ; woman 's heart is soft ; and flattery is the snare of souls . 
Hunting , fishing , or riding , he was never without some pleasant excuse for resorting that way . 
He always inquired for Hector , and feigned disappointment if he did not find him ; but it was only when Charlotte was absent that he was ever once known to be in a hurry . 
One day , calling as usual , he found Charlotte and Hector sitting together ; both silent ; the former busy with her needle , the latter engaged in reading random passages in a volume of Shakspeare . 
`` If you refer to me , '' replied Hector , `` I am not . 
`` You certainly shall not , '' -- and Hector went on with his reading . 
Returning then to the sitting-room , and finding Hector 's book on the floor , she stooped to take it up . 
He caught her wrist , and held her back . 
The suppressed passion in his face frightened her . 
-- He pushed it under the table with his foot . 
-- `` Lie there , '' said he , `` until I am once more a man ! '' 
All this time he held Charlotte 's wrist . 
he demanded , searching her face with his determined eye . 
`` True ; I had forgotten , '' replied Hector . 
He dropped her hand . 
The look he gave her carried a more terrible meaning than his words . 
He took a number of quick strides across the room ; then came and looked upon her . 
She had not yet spoken ; she had sunk down by a chair ; her silence and meekness under the blow he had struck burned into his soul like fire . 
`` Charlotte , '' said he , after a long pause . 
He spoke more tenderly , and she began to weep . 
`` Charlotte -- '' and he stooped to raise her up . 
She only bowed more humbly still , until at last her forehead touched his foot . 
And he threw himself prone upon his face at her side . 
He caught the hem of her dress to his lips , and kissed it ; but she snatched it from him . 
he groaned , burying his face in his hands . 
Hector went on . 
Hector trembled with suspense . 
He led her to a seat by the window , and , placing himself beside her , took her cold hands in his . 
said he , in quivering tones . 
`` You do , '' said Hector , gently , but with something like a frown . 
She stooped to take up Hector 's book ; he followed her with an impatient eye ; when , having turned again , to smile her satisfaction at the aspect of affairs , she deliberately withdrew . 
Then Hector moved impulsively to the door , and turned the key in the lock . 
Itwas a new thing for Hector to be closeted with Charlotte . 
His mother augured favorably from the circumstance , and waited with hopeful interest for the termination of the interview . 
The hour seemed long : but at length , with a thrill of motherly solicitude , she heard the sitting-room door open , and Hector come forth . 
He was passing through the hall , when she hastened to intercept him . 
`` Hector ! '' 
There was a desperate trouble in his pale face ; he did not glance aside , or turn his head , but , putting her off with a feeble gesture , as she followed him , hurried from the house . 
Then , more than ever alarmed , but fearing more for Hector than for her , Mrs. Dunbury threw on hastily her bonnet and shawl , and walked out in the direction he had been observed to take . 
Mrs. Dunbury thought she discerned Hector working with his father , in the midst of the smoke . 
`` Wal , he was goin ' by , when me an ' Mist ' Dunbury was runnin ' to put out the fire ; and Mist ' Dunbury told him to go an ' help , -- kinder cross , I thought , an ' I guess he thought so too , for he did n't say nothin ' ; but the way he put in when he got to the fire was a caution , you may as well believe ! 
Made aware of her husband 's excitement by the united witness of her eyes and ears , but feeling it still more in her wounded spirit , Mrs. Dunbury 's heart failed her , and , giving a last anxious look at Hector , as he disappeared in the smoke , she returned slowly to the house . 
`` Where is Hector ? '' 
`` He is in the swamp . '' 
`` Is n't he coming to supper ? '' 
`` I offered to , '' said Corny , blacking a towel with his half-washed face , `` but he said he 'd stay ; so I tho ' t I 'd let him , if he could see any fun in ` t. '' After supper , Corny was sent to take Hector 's place ; but he returned , not long after , and made his appearance , whittling . 
`` Where is Hector ? '' 
`` He 's out there . '' 
`` Wal , he said he 'd watch it . 
B'sides , the fire 's all under now , and he could leave it 's well as not , if he was a mind to . '' 
Mrs. Dunbury then went to the garden where her husband was at work , and expressed to him something of her fears for Hector . 
`` Would it not be well to speak to him yourself ? '' 
`` And go down on my knees to him ? '' 
`` O , no , not that , but you know his spirit ; he can not forget a wrong ; an unjust or unworthy word corrodes his very heart . '' 
But the evening dragged on , and still Hector did not appear . 
Under the wide canopy of smoke that burdened the night air and hid the stars , he sat upon a fallen trunk , in the midst of the black field . 
To Hector , it seemed typical of his own soul . 
In the night of despair by which he was encompassed , he saw no light , no glimmer anywhere , save in the quivering embers of a deep-burning passion , which he had trampled beneath his feet . 
Nor was the correspondence destroyed , when , looking to the eastward , he beheld a startling apparition in the sky . 
He knew that the phenomenon was caused by fires on the high mountain-top ; but his distempered fancy could see only two grotesque and awful eyes gazing upon him out of heaven , and symbolizing the still more awful eyes of conscience in his soul . 
Still Hector sat and watched ; and now , while his limbs became chilled with the cold , his thoughts grew wild and hideous . 
He imagined himself surrounded by vast pits of smouldering fire . 
Then it seemed that the world had been destroyed , and that he was the sole survivor of his race , brooding upon the ruins . 
All the people he had ever known moved past him in grimacing and solemn procession . 
The life he had lately lived was something vague and visionary , and far-off in the past ; his own bodily form seemed strange to him ; and he wondered at the gigantic proportions of the being that seemed himself . 
Suddenly , all this passed , and he saw one sole , clear image , as of purest amber , exquisitely soft and glorious , falling , falling forever , in a chaotic sky . 
He knew not whether these fancies ended in sleep ; but when his mind aroused to consciousness again , the mountain fires had faded , and the dawn was faintly struggling through the dim smoke that shrouded the world . 
Allnight long Mrs. Dunbury listened for Hector 's footsteps in the hall ; and it was not until after she had heard him enter at day-break , and go up to his chamber , that slumber overtook the thronging troubles of her brain . 
Hector entered . 
He was pale and haggard . 
-- and Hector laid his hand upon his breast . 
`` But Charlotte -- '' Hector pressed his forehead in his hand , as if to hold it from bursting . 
A sigh shook his whole frame , and his voice was torn with anguish , like his heart . 
-- and there was a bright earnestness in Hector 's eyes , -- `` I could tell you a story ! 
`` It is a surprise to see you , sir , '' he said , with a somewhat surly look at Hector . 
And Hector named his proposed journey . 
Mr. Dunbury looked fiery ; but whether from self-conviction or resentment , Hector did not know . 
Hector got down by the bed , and hid his face . 
The invalid pressed his noble head , and kissed his fair , flowing locks , sobbing audibly . 
After two or three attempts , which pride appeared to foil , he stooped and took Hector by the arm . 
`` Arise up now , '' -- his voice and manner betrayed emotion struggling still with pride . 
`` Except we be first as little children , we can never be true men , '' said Hector , kneeling still . 
There was love , and suffering , and an indescribable softness in his tones , which troubled the parent 's rugged spirit more and more . 
Then Hector reached forth instinctively , and took his father 's hand . 
The strong man was broken ; he sank down by the bed ; he threw himself on Hector 's neck ; he cried out , in agony , `` I am the only offender ; I am not fit to live ! '' 
said Hector , `` my father ! 
On leaving his mother 's room , Hector passed an hour in his own chamber , making preparations for his journey . 
Then returning and finding her alone , and busily engaged in preparing some little comforts to remind him of her in his absence , he bent over her tenderly , and took her hand . 
`` Put away those trifles , '' said he , with a sad smile . 
`` Anything I can do for you is a solace to my pain , '' replied his mother , blinded once more by her tears . 
Blank disappointment sent the color from Hector 's face . 
He repeated -- `` Gone ! '' 
how she suffers , Hector ! 
said Hector . 
His mother sobbed . 
He stooped and kissed her . 
Then , returning to his chamber , he hastened to make final preparations for his journey . 
Hector 's goin ' away , an ' we want to take his trunks over to town . '' 
`` Hector going ! '' 
I alluz got along with Hector . 
said Phœbe ; `` for Hector 'll have to stop , and we can bid him good-by , ca n't we , Charlotte ? '' 
Scarce had the gloomy umbrella disappeared , when Mr. Dunbury drove by with Hector . 
A swelling grief in Hector 's heart choked back the little message he would have sent . 
Yet he shook hands with Phœbe , and smiled upon her April tears , and expressed a kindly wish at parting ; and so rode off , outwardly calm , but with the insupportable thought burning and aching in his soul , that the tragic curtain had fallen , to darken henceforth between him and her he loved , forever . 
Hector 's home could not be her home . 
Where he had lived , she could not be at rest . 
`` Do you recollect , '' said Phœbe , `` the day when Mr. Dunbury called to borry our wagon , and told us Hector was coming home ? 
Everybody thought , one time , he was paying attention to you ; and I expected , much as could be , you 'd be married . 
O , do you remember the stone he give me for a keepsake , the day you ketched me asleep by the fence ? '' 
`` It 's like men 's hearts , he said , and told me to look at it whenever I was in danger of falling in love . 
A n't he the queerest mortal you ever see ? 
But I think he 's splendid ! 
There 's Bertha Wing , and I do n't know how many others , would give their eyes to git him . 
`` But this summer he never appeared to care for anybody but you . 
Maybe you might ' a got him , -- do n't you suppose you might , if you had tried ? '' 
My heart almost hopped out of my mouth when I saw him ride up . '' 
Charlotte started , as Hector 's image flashed momentarily before her . 
ask him into the settingroom . 
There 's his knock ! '' 
He talked ever so much about you , and asked how long you are going to stay here , and whether you correspond with Hector . 
He said I need n't mention it to you ; but I did n't promise . 
Would you care if he thought I was handsomer than you ? '' 
Phœbe , affectedly : `` I do n't say he does , you know . 
If he said so , he probably did n't mean it . 
His moustache is perfectly bewitching , any way ! '' 
`` Hector was jealous of Robert , and prejudiced you against him , or else you would n't speak so . 
Have you heard from Hector ? '' 
`` How should I hear from him ? 
`` Because -- I have heard from him ! '' 
`` He mentions your name , -- shall I tell you what he says ? '' 
`` At least , tell me if you have any message to send to Hector , '' -- and he held her arm . 
The house stood silent and gloomy in the rain ; the windows of Hector 's chamber were closed and curtained ; and the little portico , under which he used to sit , was desolate and deserted . 
Recognizing the half-concealed face that peered from the sombre background of the umbrella , he poised his knife and stick , nodded , and grinned . 
`` Why , it 's Hector Dunbury 's ! '' 
`` Hector Dunb ` ry 's , hey ? 
If it 's from Hector , they 've a better right to it than we have . 
Hector 's gone to Californy ! '' 
Ca n't be he 's gone to Californy ! 
His folks ` u 'd know suthin ' ` bout it , if he had . '' 
Phœbe , relinquishing her hold : `` I do n't think Hector speaks very well of Charlotte , anyhow ! 
It was a trifle Hector had given her , -- the only gift of his she had consented to retain , -- and this was the first occasion on which she had worn it , since they parted . 
`` I am sorry Hector has gone again . 
He appears to have a roving disposition . 
Is his mind as changeable as his habits ? 
I am not much acquainted with him ; I never saw him but twice , and that was years ago . 
He was then a handsome , high-spirited boy , -- adventurous , but very fond of his mother . '' 
Poor Charlotte managed to say , -- `` He is your cousin ? '' 
A brother of Mrs. Dunbury , you know ; Hector 's uncle . 
We used to think Hector would be like him , -- how is it ? '' 
That night Charlotte dreamed of Hector . 
So much for her dream ; but all that morning Hector 's image haunted her ; and she chided herself , not only for thinking of him , but for entertaining such fancies even in a dream . 
`` Hector ! '' 
Hector seated himself , and laid his hand upon her arm with a touch that thrilled her still . 
said Hector . 
I should not dare , I should not dare , after that -- '' `` I am not here , '' responded Hector 's deep and earnest tones , `` to make weak excuses for weak conduct . 
I acted then only as he whom you knew as Hector could act . 
Charlotte looked in his eyes . 
`` If they had not been killed , I should not be here , '' said Hector . 
`` If her pride is a true pride , '' said Hector , with noble enthusiasm , `` she will rejoice that her son had the courage to set his heel upon prejudice and conventionality , and stand by your side , in the face of the world . '' 
Hector had expected opposition , but nothing like this . 
She spoke in fearful earnest ; and he knew it . 
He took her in his arms , and she sobbed aloud . 
It was a moment of intense suffering , suffused with an indefinable happiness , which his mere presence shed about her like dew . 
But she hastened to recover herself , and put him gently from her . 
The reviving joyousness with which she expressed her anticipations of crossing the ocean , and of thus embracing a destiny in which he had no share , filled Hector with insupportable pain . 
But when she added that she had not forgotten that England was his fatherland , and that when there she should think of him often , he sprang impetuously to his feet . 
O , Charlotte -- '' He paused ; the younger Mrs. Longman was at the door . 
Hector explained to his relative , with his customary frankness , that he had not come to Montreal on a visit . 
The eagerness with which she opened and read it did not escape Hector 's jealous eye . 
He judged it to be from Mrs. De Rohan . 
He was not mistaken ; it was a request for Charlotte to call upon her that morning . 
`` Hector shall carry you in the chaise . '' 
She was absent near half an hour , when , returning , with her bonnet and shawl , she placed a letter in Hector 's hand . 
`` If you will give that to your mother -- '' Her voice was tremulous , her eyes fell , and Hector saw that in her hand she held another letter , which she hesitated to give him . 
`` I am going with you , '' he said . 
`` Do you remember our first ride together , '' he asked , as he helped her into the chaise . 
he repeated , as they rode away . 
And you -- you -- '' A passion of grief seemed bursting in his voice ; but he checked it , and fixed his features firm , and drove on in silence . 
exclaimed Hector , `` we do not part so ! 
exclaimed Hector . 
She gave it to him . 
He accompanied her to the door ; she entered , and , returning to the chaise , he hid himself in the corner of the seat , and read the letter . 
It was the sweetest and yet bitterest morsel his eyes had ever devoured . 
But in the concluding portion she expressed an irrevocable decision to fulfil her engagement with Mrs. De Rohan , and stated peremptory reasons that forbade the very thought of a union with Hector . 
One page he kissed with passionate fervor ; the other he struck and crushed , in the torture which it inflicted . 
He was still tormenting himself in this manner , when Charlotte reäppeared . 
`` Well , '' said Hector , at length , `` tell me ! '' 
Hector took the letter , and , tearing off the last page , scattered it in fragments upon Charlotte 's lap . 
`` Hector , '' she said , at length , `` I am not going with Mrs. De Rohan . '' 
Joy leaped in Hector 's heart . 
At dinner , that day , Hector appeared in his best mood . 
His cheerfulness , his simple and sweet wisdom , his flashing wit , and the soft splendor of his eye , charmed his relatives . 
The welcome intelligence that Charlotte would probably remain in the family had rendered them susceptible to the influence ; and their appreciation drew Hector on . 
`` Because , '' replied Hector , `` when you knew me before , I had not lived the life I have lived since . 
Hector was indeed changed . 
Surely he had set his feet upon chains that fettered him before . 
Had she done justice to herself and him ? 
Was it right that the words he had uttered that morning , thrilling her so , should be turned away , like singing children , from the door of her heart , because she was fearful of thieves ? 
Thatevening , Hector and Charlotte sat conversing in the parlor ; Mrs. Longman had withdrawn , and they were left alone . 
said Hector . 
He led the way to a small side-room communicating with the parlor . 
`` As well now as ever , '' replied Hector . 
Then , calm , composed , filled with a deep , unruffled happiness , which she had drawn from Hector 's presence and sympathy , she entered the parlor and stood before the visitor , waiting for him to speak . 
Had Hector 's possessed half the intensity of mine , he could never have deserted you ; he would be now at your feet . '' 
exclaimed Charlotte , -- `` to call your baseness love , to compare yourself with him ! 
`` Here is your silly toy , '' said Hector , displaying the dirk ; `` and thus do I defeat your villany ! '' 
Charlotte trembled with a sort of fearful pride in Hector 's power . 
His address was princely ; calm and gracious , yet in its meaning terrible . 
answered Hector . 
-- and Hector brought Charlotte face to face with him , and looked at both . 
Hector smiled : `` By all means , speak that word ; for , by the same , we may restore lustre to the blackened characters of St. Judas and St. Herod ! '' 
`` She was -- she is -- '' A swift buffet from Hector 's palm shattered the word upon his lips . 
He reeled back against the marble chimney . 
Charlotte grew pale ; but Hector stood calm and smiling before his quivering antagonist . 
`` If you desire the happiness , after we part , this night , '' said Hector , `` amen ! 
Hector stepped before him . 
Smiling , and with folded arms , Hector stepped aside . 
But his eye was alert , and fixed like an eagle 's on Robert . 
repeated Hector . 
Hector struck the paper . 
Robert 's face was of a cowardly hue ; but a stubborn pride sustained him , and he answered , sullenly , `` Well , sir , make the most of it ! '' 
Hector stepped to the side-room . 
Charlotte followed him , alarmed . 
said Hector . 
Hector pressed her hand at the door , which she held open , and , flinging his cloak about him , walked on by Robert 's side . 
It disappeared in the direction Hector and Robert had taken . 
Surely , surely , some evil had arrived to Hector ; else he would return . 
`` O , Hector ! 
`` Hector ! 
`` You are not Hector ! '' 
The hat was certainly Hector 's ; likewise the cloak ; but the form , the step , the manner -- how changed ! 
`` Where is Hector ? '' 
where is Hector ? '' 
She looked to Charlotte for an explanation , and imbibed her fears , with quick sympathy , when the terrified girl spoke of Hector . 
`` Hector was a Trojan , '' said Edward . 
`` He was chased three times around the walls , when -- chuck ! 
exclaimed Hector . 
`` The Seven Wise Men are dead , '' said Hector ; `` and dead men , to be consistent , should speak only the dead languages . 
`` I think , '' said Hector , `` you are no great Shaks . '' 
`` Be calm , '' Hector said to Charlotte and Mrs. Longman , `` and in a little while he will become so . 
`` One thing , '' observed Hector : `` with so many people to sleep for , I do n't see how you can afford to sit up so late . 
`` I was naked , and you clothed me , '' turning to Hector ; `` therefore , you shall hold high rank in our kingdom . 
exclaimed Hector ; `` thou art a riddle ! '' 
`` O , Hector ! 
how could you bring him to that point ? '' 
But do not count too much upon his promises . 
The evil spirit in him , though humbled , is not killed . 
He will not trouble us soon , however , I think ; he knows whom he has to deal with . 
He is engaging in speculations with Mr. Sperkley , and has pledged himself not to go back to Huntersford . 
Hector ` sabsence , the loss of Charlotte , and manifold minor troubles of a domestic nature , had produced their effect upon Mrs. Dunbury . 
It was a day or two before Hector 's unexpected return ; and his sudden departure for Canada had left her once more alone with his mother . 
Hector had become almost a secondary consideration . 
Hector had been two days absent . 
On the afternoon of the third day , Corny put his head in at the door . 
I guess it 's Hector . '' 
`` It is Hector ! 
I know his cloak ! '' 
`` Is shewith him ? '' 
`` There 's somebody with him . 
A minute later , Hector 's foot was on the floor ; Hector 's arms supported the invalid , as she arose from her pillow . 
`` Good Phœbe , '' said Hector , `` I want to talk with my mother a little while ; will you let me ? '' 
Mrs. Dunbury is to take two table-spoonfuls of that in the bottle -- '' I 'll attend to the bottle ; '' and , following Phœbe to the door , Hector locked it after her . 
then said he , seating himself by the bed , `` this bridge of life we tread upon is a bridge of sighs ! 
He scarce knew how to proceed . 
His mother was too feeble to endure a sudden shock . 
He told of the love and happiness which he thought might be his ; and when all her sympathies were stirred , and joy and faith made her strong , he turned and denounced those false estimates of society , by which love and happiness are so often frustrated . 
She assented to all he said . 
he cried ; `` of two persons who love thus deeply , one may be descended from princes , from Jove himself , while the other is the child of misery and shame ! '' 
exclaimed Hector . 
Hector bent down , and as he kissed his mother she felt a warm tear fall upon her cheek . 
No response ; but the invalid wept , and , straining Hector to her bosom , responded , fervently , `` Then God help you and her ! '' 
Two passengers were landed , with their baggage , and , once more the mighty monster of steam twanging his terrible cross-bow , the arrowy train sped on , thundering with faint and fainter echoes among the hills . 
Hector looked all around . 
`` It is growing dark very fast , '' said Hector . 
Until now Charlotte had managed to wear a cheerful aspect ; but when Hector , talking to her so kindly and affectionately , made her sit down upon a piece of baggage , and warmed her cold feet in his hands , she could no longer repress her tears . 
You have a right to cry , '' said Hector , looking up into her face . 
But , O , Hector ! 
Hector cheered his companion with this prospect ; but before they had gone far they heard the sound of a wagon . 
`` That you , Hector Dunbury ? 
asked Hector . 
demanded Hector . 
Start up a little now , '' said Hector . 
Hector interrupted him , to ask again about the accident . 
But I thought I would n't say nothin ' more , though I 'm sorry now I did n't ; for it ` pears Mist ' Dunbury had n't more 'n got to the railroad crossin ' , when the pesky beast made a fuss agin , an ' balked , with the load right acrost the track . 
He no more expected to find Mist ' Dunbury alive than -- Wal , he 'd no idee on ` t ! 
Mist ' Dunbury had got 'em unhitched jes ' ' t the minute the ingine struck . 
Hector was at Charlotte 's side ; and day and night , with enduring love and patience , hand in hand they administered to the wants of the sufferers . 
Hector would say , with a smile of ineffable meaning ; and no answer so cheering and sweet as the glance of her lustrous eyes . 
All was quiet ; Charlotte , wearied with the toils of the day , reclined upon the lounge ; and Hector sat near , shading her eyes from the light . 
Suddenly he observed a slight start , and a cessation of her breath . 
`` You were dreaming , '' he said , leaning over her . 
`` Do not be alarmed , '' said Hector ; for Charlotte trembled . 
The darkness and mystery -- '' Another tremor , and Charlotte 's hand pressed Hector 's arm . 
he whispered . 
`` Sit still , '' -- and Hector arose softly . 
He left his lamp in the kitchen , and , muffling himself in his cloak , went silently from the house . 
Hector moved cautiously towards the front yard , watching and listening . 
He heard nothing , saw no living object . 
He advanced to the trees , and , passing through the open gate , looked up and down the road . 
After some minutes , he gave up the search ; but , as he turned to retrace his steps , he perceived a movement by the trunk of one of the large trees . 
He rushed to the spot , and a man stepped out before him . 
Hector was no coward ; but , it must be confessed , the promptness with which he was met gave his blood a start . 
`` Good-evening , sir , '' said he . 
A deep determination swelled in Hector 's tones . 
Still no answer ; and Hector laid his hand upon the figure 's arm . 
His grasp tightened ; but at the instant he was shaken off , and the man sprang upon him . 
While he fell upon one part of it , he managed to twist the opposite corner about Hector 's face and chest . 
Both regained their feet together ; and the assailant , literally tearing himself from Hector 's embrace , fled with all speed down the road . 
Hector did not pursue , but , gathering up his cloak , returned to the house . 
At the door he was met by the alarmed and eager Charlotte . 
His face was streaked with blood . 
`` I can not be much hurt , '' said he , `` since I did not know it . 
O , '' said Hector , `` had it not been for my father 's accident , all danger from him would be by this time at an end , and you should stand by my side before the world ! 
On the following day , Hector made an errand to the village , but sought in vain for any clue of intelligence which might lead to a solution of the mystery . 
On his way home , however , stopping to make some purchases at the store , he encountered a poor tailor , who had his shop in an obscure street of the town . 
`` So I have heard , '' replied Hector ; `` and the first I have to be done in town shall be given to you . '' 
`` Something about this size and quality , '' -- showing an exact mate to the trophy Hector had brought off the night before . 
`` If I knew your customer , '' said Hector , `` I might tell you just what article he would fancy . '' 
said Hector . 
He chose the device of a serpent biting its own coils . 
said Hector to himself . 
He visited a banking office , where he had money deposited , and procured a draft upon New York ; then hastened home to Charlotte . 
Mr. Dunbury was sitting up , with his feet upon a chair , and his unfortunate shoulder in a sling , when Hector entered the room . 
Hector was not surprised ; for he had not heard him speak pleasantly since his accident . 
`` You could not have chosen a better time , '' said Hector , `` for there is little to be done on the farm ; scarce enough to keep Corny in motion . 
There was a thrill of emotion in Hector 's voice , which softened his parent . 
`` Father , '' replied Hector , `` this is a subject we will not argue . 
His countenance showed a sullen discontent ; but he gave the subject no more words ; and it only remained for Hector to make preparations for his journey . 
Hector ` spreparations were made . 
Charlotte was brave and strong ; she looked beyond all the clouds that hung over her path , into the light of a clear , deep heaven , to which Hector pointed her , and which love and truth made theirs , whatever might be their fortunes for a time . 
She gave him only words and looks of encouragement at their parting , and waved her handkerchief to him from her window , until he was shut from her view . 
He was proud still ; he remembered that Hector was the son of a gentleman , and that Charlotte was a servant . 
He had observed their intimacy ; and now Hector was abroad on her business . 
He expressed his thoughts to his wife ; he did not conceal them from Charlotte . 
Still , she had no condemnation for him , but much compassion . 
She sought his good-will ; she exerted herself to please him ; and often there was a charm about her which not even he could resist . 
One day , having dressed his wound as usual , she asked permission to comb his hair . 
He answered that he could never endure any person to touch it ; but her tone , her smile , and the winning assurance with which she brought the brush and comb , quite disarmed his ill-nature . 
There was certainly a magnetism in her touch ; for , so far from being irritated , he felt only a soothing influence . 
Guess it 's Charlotte he wants ; for he said ' t wa n't you nor Mis ' Dunbury , nor Bridget , nuther ; an ' when I axed if ' t was Charlotte , his eyes looked -- I ca n't tell how , but real funny , an ' he called me Telescope . 
You rode off grandly with Prince Hector ; but I was at the church before you . 
`` Prince Hector looked royal ; but the hypocrite in the robes turned pale as his shirt . 
I am to omit all titles , or I would call him Prince Hector . ' 
What of Hector and Charlotte ? '' 
If fault there be , it is not hers , -- it is Hector 's -- mine ! 
-- then think of Hector , who inherits the same blood , the same dangerous temperament , from our ancestors ! 
O , what is family pride , compared with the welfare of a heart and mind like his ? 
consider how tender , and lovable , and true , she is ; and that Hector 's feelings , with all their depth and intensity , have centred in her ; then , for his sake , if not for her sake , be merciful ! '' 
Go on till dooms-day ; make Hector a saint , make Charlotte an angel , make me a brute ! 
But when Hector went to bring Charlotte back , and when we both longed to tell you their history up to that hour , he could not approach you -- I could not ! '' 
-- But of this I can not speak ; you would not hear me , you would not understand ; and I must leave the rest to Hector , on his return . 
Would he were here to-day ! '' 
`` You forget , '' said Mrs. Dunbury , `` that he is of an age to act for himself . '' 
`` And let him ! 
Had he chosen a negress or a squaw , he might have married in spite of me . 
But when he thinks to harbor his baggage under my roof , -- he shall see ! '' 
`` He will be quite ready , sir , to remove his wife to another and pleasanter home , let me assure you ; and , no doubt , Charlotte will be as ready to go . 
because you needed him , and I needed both ? 
Has Hector gone to appease the anger of an outraged parent , or the vengeance of a dishonored husband ? 
Has the name of Dunbury come to this ? '' 
`` It is well for you , sir , to speak of the name of Dunbury ! 
`` Which hoss did Mist ' Dunbury tell ye to take ? '' 
This path Charlotte took ; passing in her flight scenes which she had first visited in company with Hector , and which had become linked in her memory with warm and dear associations . 
She thought of Hector . 
For his sake she conquered her agony . 
Still Hector filled her soul . 
-- unless -- unless Hector comes home ! '' 
He 's English ; and I do n't know ' t I ever talked with him in the world , ' t he had n't some flaw to pick in our institutions . 
I 've kep ' up my eend o ' the argument perty well , so fur ; but I guess he 'll git the start o ' me now . 
I should think he 'd move heaven an ' ` arth to git you clear What did he say about it ? '' 
did I tell ye little Etty Grinnich stopped to our house , on her way hum ? 
The music of a band approaching floated upon the air ; and Hector , looking in the direction towards which the many-hued faces were turned , beheld a grotesque procession . 
Then he remembered that it was New Year 's Eve , the season of masquerades ; and that the Strikerswere one of the famous societies which , by their fantastic displays upon that anniversary , make Mobile the rival of Rome and Venice in their gay carnivals . 
Many of those that followed were unknown to Hector ; but there was no mistaking Hudibras and Orlando Furioso , who brought up the rear . 
The procession tramped on through the thin and slippery mud , the glare of the torches growing sombre and misty in the distance ; and Hector , who had dismounted from the coach , was about resuming his seat , when a hand touched his shoulder . 
cried a cordial old gentleman , grasping his hand . 
He would listen to no objections ; and Hector , who had in fact no very grave objections to advance , accepted the invitation . 
`` I expected to see Helen , '' said Hector . 
Royal-street was found impassable ; and Parchment , consulting his master , brought the span to a halt upon an eligible corner . 
said Hector . 
`` A caprice , Mrs. De Rohan , '' said her brother , `` which has grown in power and popularity for some twenty years . 
said Hector . 
`` Precious Stones sparkles superbly in contrast , '' said Hector . 
`` Yonder , travelling in company with a friendly potato , '' said Hector . 
Parchment , showing his magnificent teeth : `` Aw -- I -- massa -- it 's mos ' superfluous ! '' 
Hector : `` I hope not ; for we have seen enough . 
Hector had become suddenly thoughtful . 
Dragons , serpents , monstrous frogs , men with lion 's heads , men with tusks and trunks , men with beaks and wings , and men with tails , moved by him unobserved , in the torches ' smoky light . 
`` Are you tired of it , Dunbury ? '' 
Hector started . 
By the way , Lucy , tell Dunbury about -- what was the name ? 
He is from the north , and may give you some information and advice . '' 
How the shock of that word smote Hector 's heart ! 
`` Much , '' spoke Hector , betwixt the beatings of his heart . 
Hector could scarce refrain from clasping the speaker 's hand , in the sympathy and exultation of his spirit . 
breathed Hector . 
We will indulge in a little refreshment ; then , if you like , Dunbury , we will ride around to the Battle House , and call on the Strikers . 
Hector could not speak . 
Mechanically he helped the ladies down , and accompanied them into the house . 
`` There , Dunbury , '' -- turning with a smile of pride to Hector , -- `` what do you think of that ? '' 
Helen started back , with a blush , at sight of her father 's guest ; but , recovering herself presently , she advanced , self-possessed , with a smile of welcome , to lay her delicate white-gloved hand in Hector 's . 
He took it coldly , and with a few formal and commonplace words , uttered with effort , bowed stiffly , like an automaton . 
turning again to Hector . 
exclaimed Hector ; `` I have something to say to you . '' 
Then Hector turned to Mrs. Graves . 
he said , eagerly . 
O , '' said Hector , `` you should hear her speak of you ; it is always with such gratitude , such love ! 
Hector was intercepted in the hall by Mr. Copliff . 
and Hector mounted the carriage , and rode away . 
asked Mrs. Graves , half an hour later , meeting him in the hall . 
answered Hector . 
Hector was in waiting . 
The doctor looked in the glass which hung opposite the door , and brushed his hair over his forehead . 
Hector was pale ; his heart beat strong and fast . 
The doctor fixed his searching glance on Hector . 
The doctor sat silent for near a minute , his dark eyes studying Hector , from beneath their gathered brows . 
`` Yes , '' he exclaimed , `` circumstances have occurred to alter my decision . '' 
`` The sum she named , '' assented Hector . 
`` Sir , '' said Hector , `` I do not understand . 
Your terms -- '' `` A thousand dollars , cash in hand , '' said the doctor ; and , with an indifferent air , he smoothed down the lock of hair that lay low upon his forehead . 
A dizzy blur darkened Hector 's vision . 
He leaned his head upon his hand . 
He saw the danger that threatened Charlotte clothed in all its terrors ; and money seemed but as water to be poured out for the security of her peace . 
Unfortunately , he had but little more than eight hundred dollars at his command , and to make a final offer of that was all that he could do . 
`` Then , '' said Hector , `` I must confer with Mrs. Graves . '' 
Tortured with doubts , Hector hurried from the office . 
He hastened to find an old friend , his former employer , of whom he hoped for aid : he was absent from the city . 
Though stunned momentarily by the news , he lost no time in idle regret , but , mounting a coach , rode to the house of an eminent physician , whom he knew . 
Again in the coach , Hector held his impatient spirit , until the slow vehicle brought him to the door of a benevolent citizen , of whom he had formerly received so many kindnesses that he had reason to hope for more . 
Foiled again in his purpose , Hector thought of Mr. Fobbles , a merchant , to whom he had once rendered an important service , and who had ever since been loud in his protestations of friendship . 
Unceremoniously , Hector named the object of his visit . 
At any other time he could have taken so small a sum out of his pocket , and given him ; `` but losses , sir , payments , perplexities -- '' Hector broke impetuously away . 
Mr. Copliff was now his last hope . 
He had dreaded to call on him for money , being his guest . 
But his fears for Charlotte overcame every other consideration . 
He reached the office . 
Ten minutes later , Hector came upon his old friend , Joseph Spalding , like an apparition . 
`` Substance , '' uttered Hector , `` since I seek substantial aid . 
cried Hector . 
Hector returned to Mrs. Graves . 
She grew pale at the sight of him . 
Words were needless to report his ill-success . 
cried Hector . 
Hector approached her confidently . 
And , without giving the other time to recover from her astonishment , Hector poured forth the history . 
In his manner , his voice , his looks , there was an energy that swept everything before it . 
She left the room , and , returning straightway , placed in his hand a purse of gold . 
In the name of Charlotte , of humanity , of Him whose mission was to loose the bonds of the oppressed , he uttered his thanks , and hurried from the house . 
Once more he confronted Dr. Tanwood . 
The doctor smiled , and , bowing with ironic civility , invited him to a seat . 
`` Thank you , '' said Hector . 
And if you will please draw up the bill of sale -- '' The words sounded strange and awful in his ear . 
of his own wife ! 
The doctor leaned over the table , and with gloating deliberation fixed Hector with his hard , vindictive eye . 
`` Will you , then , be so good , sir , '' -- Hector spoke calmly , but with a kindling fury in his look , -- `` as to name your ultimate terms , that I may know what to depend upon ? '' 
articulated Hector . 
At this brutal allusion , Hector felt a dangerous leaping of the blood . 
With fixed teeth , and lips compressed , he produced his pocket-book . 
Two checks , one of five hundred dollars , the other of three hundred , he laid upon the table . 
Then , resorting to Mrs. De Rohan 's purse , he emptied out a heap of British gold . 
There was near double the amount he had asked for ; and , making up the requisite sum in small bills , he shoved it towards the doctor . 
A ghastly pallor chased the flush from Hector 's cheek . 
`` Can I know , '' -- his voice was forced , but calm , -- `` can I know why I have been made the subject of this treatment ? '' 
-- he threw back the hair from his forehead , and revealed a rugged scar , -- `` do you know that ? 
And , snatching from a drawer a handkerchief stained and stiff with blood , he thrust it in Hector 's face . 
Hector stood upon his feet , and with rigid features kept his firm look fixed upon the doctor 's tiger-eyes . 
answered Hector . 
`` I have a word , '' said Hector . 
But there is something struggling here , '' -- his hand was upon his breast , -- `` and it must forth ! 
said the doctor ; but he spoke less jeeringly than before . 
Hector went forth from the house . 
In the street he met a friend . 
Hector stared , without appearing to recognize him . 
Hector , baffled and impatient , was waiting in Mobile for the steamer to sail that was to take him on his homeward journey . 
But for the influence of woman soothing and restraining him , his racked mind could scarce have borne its suffering and suspense . 
How could he have lived through those torturing hours -LRB- he afterwards wondered within himself -RRB- , had it not been for her who encouraged him to wait , and trust , and to meet all things by heaven ordained to discipline and teach us , with a calm and patient faith , believing in the good ! 
Do you remember '' -- her voice changed , and she looked up with glistening eyes into Hector 's face -- `` how often I used to sit with you so , a year ago , and make you talk to me ? 
said Hector . 
Had I looked only for beauty , for wealth , and honorable connections , even for a gentle and tender heart , Helen would have been everything I could desire , '' said Hector . 
`` I am very weak , '' said Hector . 
said Hector . 
A sudden spasm convulsed Hector 's features . 
he said , faintly . 
The door opened ; he looked up , with a start , as Joseph Spalding entered . 
cried Hector . 
exclaimed Hector . 
echoed Hector . 
demanded Hector . 
cried Hector , alarmed and impatient . 
There was a struggle , and he seized it . 
Hector ! '' 
gasped Hector , clutching the paper . 
`` People say Hector is paying attention to her . 
You did n't know , perhaps , that Hector came for me , the very day he found Miss Woods at your house ? 
She entered ; Charlotte appeared to awake , and she spoke to her ; but the poor girl , not recognizing her , called for Hector to give her a glass of water . 
`` Hector ! 
Tell me , was it Hector ? '' 
`` Is Mis ' Dunbury wus agin ? '' 
Hector 's gone ; an ' I s ` pose ye heard about Charlotte . '' 
I 'm goin ' to take your mother over to Mist ' Dunbury 's , an ' goin ' from there to meetin ' ; an ' you can go with me , or stay to hum with Phœbe . '' 
T was the day her and Hector broke down , and I carried 'em home in my wagon . 
`` And Hector ? '' 
`` Something has happened to him ! 
You did not know -- that I -- that I -- loved Hector ! '' 
`` I felt but one sharp , piercing pang , when you told me you were Hector 's wife . 
I gave him up long ago ; I have schooled myself to resignation ; I pray for his happiness and yours , from the depths of my heart . '' 
The acquaintance was Hector ! 
How well I remembered him , when I saw him for the second time at your house , there on the hill ! '' 
`` You had seen him , then ! '' 
I was afraid of him , and wished him away . 
On going away , Hector observed his friend 's hat , and spoke of this package . 
` You certainly had a package , ' said Hector , ` for I remarked it both in the street and after we came in . ' 
But another time you shall hear more of Mr. Roberts -- '' `` And Hector , '' said Bertha , -- `` how were you married ? 
He had left you once ! '' 
`` Yes , when I told him my history . 
But his love , '' said Camille , with a glorious smile , `` his love was great as his soul ! 
He came back , and claimed me as his wife . '' 
`` Hector ! '' 
Hector ! 
said Hector 's hollow voice . 
He turned upon his father : his look was terrible . 
Still the invalid clung to Hector , whose soul knew her not . 
said Hector . 
`` At your hands , sir , '' he repeated , standing before his father , `` I demand my wife ! '' 
answered Hector . 
Covering his face , he rushed from the room , his mother crying out to him , and clasping his neck . 
Still he knew her not , or heard not , or heeded not . 
But , at one thrilling word her tongue pronounced , he started , and gazed at her . 
said Hector , with bursting joy , `` the word is worth a hundred thousand worlds ! 
He sprang from her arms ; he leaped upon his horse , and rode northward with furious speed . 
When once more he drew rein and flung himself from the saddle , it was at the door of Mr. Rukely 's house . 
O , if it were -- Hector ! '' 
`` He has come to warn you -- to save you ! '' 
`` He ! '' 
`` Think of Hector ! '' 
`` O , Hector ! '' 
`` I know that you can trust him ; I know that he is sincere . 
`` O , Hector ! 
Hector ! '' 
`` You still have hope of Hector . 
But he can not save you . 
His attempt to purchase you has proved abortive . 
Perhaps what you tell me is true ; perhaps Hector could not save me , were he here ; but , sir , rather than live your favorite , even your wife , I would die beneath the feet of swine ! 
The shafts were splintered , the cutter overturned , the rider hurled headlong ; and Hector , wheeling again , leaped down from his palpitating steed , just as Robert , snow-covered , bruised , bewildered , was struggling to his feet . 
And Hector , defiant , held the throbbing form upon his heart . 
Hector thrust him off . 
`` She is mine , '' he cried , `` by the decree of heaven , -- by the one eternal Law ! '' 
Hector turned to the court , his scorn and fury quivering in every fibre of his frame , in every line and curve of his lion-like face . 
Hector held them off less by the might of his arm than by the terrors of his eye . 
-- he bore his living burden nobly up , and a solemn power rolled through his tones . 
And , clutching Camille again , he thrust his pistol into Hector 's face . 
Hector held -- HIS OWN ! 
He strode with strong strides towards the door . 
The officers faltered ; the crowd gave way before him ; the judge 's feeble remonstrance died in his throat . 
Then turning , with wrath and defiance stamped upon his front , Hector beckoned to the minion of the law . 
and his hand reached forth a paper to Oliver Dole , who delivered it to the judge . 
In the midst of all stood Hector , wonderful to look upon in his bright , manly strength , with Camille still throbbing upon his breast . 
Hector had turned again . 
Hector strode over the threshold . 
The crowd would have borne him upon their shoulders . 
But there was a majesty in his look , that put them off . 
He stepped in ; he wrapped his precious burden to his heart ; and she , who was so late a thing , a slave , a chattel , rode out of the jubilant throng a SOUL , a WOMAN , a WIFE LOVING AND BELOVED . 
I might have escaped , but by ill-luck I fell in first with that accursed Hector , then with the sheriff . 
He had called to see Hector . 
To be near Camille , to hear the tones of Hector 's voice , to look upon their faces for a moment , was delight enough for her . 
A smart young lawyer done the business for Hector , an ' got the man to sign off for little or nothin ' , I guess ; though I could n't find out jest how much . 
Such was Hector on that memorable morning . 
He grasped Mr. Rukely 's hand , and they conversed a few moments in presence of the family ; then Hector led the way to Camille 's chamber . 
Charlotte was saved , Hector was happy ; she felt that she had nothing more to live for , and peaceful , not reluctant , she calmly awaited the end . 
After what had passed , knowing Hector 's spirit , knowing Charlotte 's wrongs and sufferings , she could not hope that they would return to the house from which a father 's wrath had exiled them . 
He spoke of that interview ; but , at mention of his father , Hector shook his head , with a look of infinite sadness . 
he said . 
came the low echo from Hector 's heart , and a heaving emotion struggled in his face , as he looked upon Camille ; -- `` where the spirit is at rest , is home ; hearts ' love is home ; I am at home ! '' 
She joined in Hector 's message to the invalid ; and , shortly after , Mr. Rukely took his leave . 
Still Hector felt it as a deep wrong , Camille as a sad privation , that they , who owed her so much love and gratitude , they , who were dearer to her than all the world , should be so near , and yet attend not at the pillow of the dying woman . 
As Camille 's strength increased , Hector was beginning to think of some quiet little home in the village , -- but something said , -- `` Wait ! '' 
Hector tore the envelope , took out a slip of paper , and unfolded it , -- ' t was his own telegraphic despatch from Mobile ! 
He bit his lips , but , without a word , passed it to Camille . 
said Hector , with solemn and anxious looks , `` the hour has come ! 
Hector wrung the farmer 's hand . 
Words seemed too feeble to express what swelled and burned within his breast . 
He placed Camille in the sleigh . 
But the last tinge was fading from the clouds , and the forests grew drear and dark , as Hector and Camille approached Mr. Dunbury 's house . 
As she held Camille in her arms , Hector , advancing into the hall , saw the kitchen door open beyond , and his father pacing to and fro , with trouble written in deep lines upon his face . 
The young man turned aside , pausing a moment at the door of his mother 's room , then gently lifted the latch . 
He entered softly , and moved with silent steps to the bedside ; then , stooping tenderly and reverently , imprinted a kiss upon his mother 's brow . 
Tears rained from Hector 's eyes . 
He could not speak . 
He reached forth his hand . 
He led her to the bedside ; she bent down amid the hush ; her kisses and tears fell warm upon the dying woman 's hand . 
`` And Hector ? '' 
breathed Hector . 
`` But , to see my mother here , so feeble , and suffering so -- '' His voice was choked . 
With a tender touch , Hector lifted her to an easier position , adjusting the pillows beneath her head . 
Yes , Hector , I have waited but for this . 
And , as he has seen me , for these few days past , sinking so rapidly , I have felt all the young love of his early years come back again , and his heart has been strangely softened ! 
He loves you , Hector ! 
He feels that he has been unjust to you , -- more than unjust to this dear one ! '' 
A choking sensation broke her utterance ; but she added , presently , `` Will you not forgive him ? '' 
One entered , walking with careful steps ; crushed in spirit , his form bowed as by a burden , his chin sunken sorrowfully upon his breast . 
He drew near the bedside , reaching out his trembling hands . 
A painful silence , then a quivering voice -- `` Hector ! '' 
The deep contrition of the look and tone ran like melting fire into Hector 's soul . 
On the instant , as by quick sympathy , Hector was kneeling by her side ; one arm about her form , and one hand clasped in hers . 
In conclusion , shall we draw a picture of Hector and Camille entering upon their new life of labor and love , with the world 's prejudice and frowns all unknown to their serene eyes ? 
