Not Densdeth already ! 
Why should I have superstitions about Densdeth ? 
A few acquaintances , -- and Densdeth . '' 
`` Name Densdeth friend , and I cut you bingbang ! '' 
Densdeth , the cleverest man I have ever met ? '' 
`` Densdeth , handsome as Alcibiades , or perhaps I should say Absalom , as he is Hebrewish ? '' 
`` That very Alcibiades , -- Absalom , -- Densdeth . '' 
`` Densdeth , the brilliant , the accomplished , -- who fascinates old and young , who has been everywhere , who has seen everything , who knows the world de profundis , -- a very Midas with the gold touch , but without the ass 's ears ? 
Densdeth , the potent millionnaire ? '' 
Besides , Densdeth was probably aware of your old friendship with the Denmans . '' 
`` He never spoke of them . '' 
He did not wish to talk tragedy . '' 
`` You have not heard the story of Densdeth and Clara Denman ! '' 
Densdeth was to have married Clara Denman . '' 
`` The cynical Densdeth marry that strange child ! '' 
But Densdeth , a bad genius , seemed to have won her . 
Yet some people do not hesitate to say that she drowned herself rather than be forced to marry Densdeth . '' 
I used to meet him , walking about , leaning feebly on Densdeth 's arm , looking like a dead man , or one just off the rack . 
But he is proud as Lucifer . 
He soon was himself again , prouder than before . '' 
`` Densdeth . '' 
`` Densdeth , '' I repeated , aware of a slight uneasiness . 
Densdeth says it is his store-room for books and furniture . '' 
`` Because there is a faint suspicion that he lies . 
The last janitor , an ex-servant of Densdeth 's , is dead . 
Densdeth may pestle poisons , grind stilettos , sweat eagles , revel by gas-light there . 
`` Well , if Densdeth is well bolted out of my quarters , I will not pry into his . 
`` But here I am , a returned absentee , and not a soul knows me , except Densdeth . 
I believe I will look him up . 
`` Densdeth , now , -- how would he like to be quartered in Rubbish Palace ? 
Unless Densdeth were a spirit , and could squeeze through a keyhole , I was safe from a visit by that entrance . 
Boudoir or magazine , remember it is Densdeth 's , a man you mistrust . '' 
Densdeth beside me , -- who is above ? 
By what name shall I chide him , if in dancing his breakdowns he comes crashing through the centre-piece of my ceiling ? 
I should be glad to have a fine fellow close at hand to serve me as a counterblast to Densdeth . 
On the left the same unprofitable nonentity occupied the room over Densdeth 's . 
I began to long to be acquainted with this gentleman above me , this possible counterblast to Densdeth , this possible apparition through my ceiling at the heel of a breakdown . 
Presently , as I glanced up and down the table , I caught sight of Densdeth 's dark , handsome face . 
He had turned from his companion , and was looking at me . 
He lifted his black moustache with a slight sneer , and pointed to untasted glasses of Blinckers and Bluffer standing before him . 
his glance seemed to say . 
`` Libations at the shrine of Densdeth , the millionnaire . 
Then he held up his own private glass , as if to say , with Comus , -- A dusty magnum stood beside him , without label , but wearing a conscious look of importance . 
He carefully filled a goblet with its purple contents , and despatched it to me by his own servant . 
Densdeth was a coxcomb , partly by nature , partly for effect . 
He liked to call attention to himself as the Great Densdeth . 
While I was recalling these remarks , Densdeth 's servant had deposited the wine at my right . 
He was an Afreet creature , this servant , black , ugly , and brutal as the real Mumbo Jumbo . 
Yet sometimes , as he stood by his master , I could not avoid perceiving a resemblance , and fancying him a misbegotten repetition of the other . 
And at the moments when I mistrusted Densdeth , I felt that the Afreet 's repulsive appearance more fitly interpreted his master 's soul than the body by which it acted . 
`` Densdeth , '' I thought , `` must have had a cask of the happiest vintage of Burgundy 's divinest juice hung in gimbals , and floated over the Atlantic in the June calms . '' 
Densdeth was studying me , with a covert expression , -- so I felt or fancied . 
I interpreted his look , -- `` Young man , I saw on the steamer that you were worth buying , worth perverting . 
I set down Densdeth 's glass , untasted . 
When his eyes are upon me , I feel something stir in my heart , saying , ` Be Densdeth 's ! 
He knows the mystery of life . ' 
I begin to dread him . 
Will he master my will ? 
What is this potency of his ? 
How has he got this lodgment in my spirit ? 
Is he one of those fabulous personages who only exist while they are preying upon another soul , who are torpid unless they are busy contriving a damnation ? 
Why has he been trying to turn me inside out all the voyage ? 
Why has he kept touching the raw spots and the rotten spots in my nature ? 
I can be of no use to him . 
What does he want of me ? 
No ; I will not touch his wine . 
I will keep clear of his attentions . '' 
There stood Densdeth 's wine , attracting me like some magic philter . 
It became magnetic with Densdeth 's magnetism . 
I could almost see an imp in the glass , -- not the teetotaller 's bottleimp , but a special sprite , urging me , `` Drink , and let the draught symbolize renewed intimacy with Densdeth ! 
Drink , and accept his proffered alliance . 
I was conscious of nothing but the wine -- the philter -- and him who had poured it out . 
Densdeth was exceptional . 
`` If I resist this symbolic cup , '' thought I , `` I am my own man ; if I yield , I am Densdeth 's . '' 
Why should n't I accept his alliance ? 
Why should n't I study him , and learn the secret of his power . '' 
He flirted his napkin , and knocked Densdeth 's wine-glass over into my plate . 
You are not safe from Densdeth yet . 
`` But really , -- Devil and Densdeth ; is it quite polite to identify them ? '' 
It was the destiny of such a soul to battle with Densdeth and be beaten . 
As he replied , I looked up and caught Densdeth 's eye . 
He took my glance and carried it with his to the upper end of the table . 
Densdeth marked that I observed her , and then smiled sinister , as if to say : `` Byng , the romantic , there is the type of American women ; look at her , and correct your boyish ideal . '' 
`` But better madness and death for my dear child , '' said he , sadly , `` than Densdeth ! '' 
Then waiving the subject , he continued : `` You were surprised to find me at your side . '' 
As I asked these questions , it happened that Densdeth laughed in reply to some joke of his guest . 
Densdeth 's smile , unless he chose to let it pass into a sneer , was gentlemanly and winning . 
His laugh , however , expressed a riper cynicism . 
We were battling for our hats in the lobby with a brace of seedy gents who proposed to appropriate them , when Densdeth came out . 
He saluted me cordially and Churm distantly . 
But the more contact , the more repulsion , in two men of such different quality as Churm and Densdeth . 
Densdeth was a man of slight , elegant , active figure , and of clear , colorless , olive complexion . 
His hair was black and studiously arranged . 
He was shaved , except a long drooping moustache , -- that he could not have spared ; it served sometimes to conceal , sometimes to emphasize , a sneer . 
His nose was a delicate aquiline , and his other fine-cut features corresponded . 
His eyes were yellow , feline , and restless , -- the only restless thing about him . 
They glanced from your lips to your eyes and back , while you talked with him , as if to catch each winged word , and compare it with the expression perched above . 
Densdeth seemed to have learnt this lesson from astronomy ; he shot his glance across your face to catch expressions which fancied themselves latent . 
Keen eyes Densdeth 's to recognize a villain . 
His Saxon coloring of hair and complexion were almost the artistic contrast to Densdeth 's Oriental hues . 
He wore his hair and thick brown beard cut short . 
His features were all strongly marked and finished somewhat in the rough , not weakened by chiselling and mending . 
His eyes were blue , frank , and earnest . 
He looked his man fair and square in the face , and never swerved until each had had his say . 
They were his lanterns to search for an honest man and friend , not for a rogue and tool . 
Densdeth spoke with a delicate lisp , or rather Spanish softness . 
He soothed you ; but you felt that there was a claw curled under the velvet . 
As to his laugh , it was jackal , -- a cruel , traitorous laugh , without sympathy or humor , -- a sneer given voice . 
But this ugly sound it was impossible to be much with Densdeth and not first echo and then adopt . 
Densdeth was a little too carefully dressed . 
His clothes had a conscious air . 
His trousers hung as if they felt his eye on them , and dreaded a beating if they bagged . 
His costume was generally quiet , so severely quiet that it was evident he desired to be flagrant , and obeyed tact rather than taste . 
Still these were not glaring errors , and Densdeth 's distinguished air and marked Orientalism of face made a touch of splendor tolerable . 
`` Glad to see you again , Byng , '' said Densdeth , offering his hand . 
says Densdeth . 
His yellow eyes came and went as he spoke , exploring my face to discover , `` What has Churm told him of me and Clara Denman ? 
`` Miss Denman will be at home to-morrow , at one , '' he continued . 
`` O , my lumber-room , '' he replied , carelessly . 
`` Well , Mr. Churm , '' said I , as we walked off together ; `` you see I can not evade Densdeth . 
He is my first acquaintance at home , my next-door neighbor in Chrysalis , and now he takes the superintendence of my re-introduction to old friends . 
Fate seems determined that I shall clash against him . 
I am not sure whether my self is elastic enough to throw him off , even if I desire to . '' 
He walked on down Broadway , silent and moody . 
`` Observe where I lead you , '' said he , turning to the east through several mean , narrow streets . 
`` Towner is the tarnished reverse of that burnished medal Densdeth , -- Densdeth without gilding . '' 
`` Did Densdeth fling him away into this hole ? '' 
`` He is lying perduhere , hid from Densdeth and the world . 
He has been a clerk , agent , tool , slave , of the Great Densdeth . 
He sent for me the other day , by Locksley , saying that he was sick , poor , and penitent for a villany he had done against me , and wanted to confess before he died , and before Densdeth could find him again . 
He can not make up his impotent mind to confession . 
He must speak soon , or concealment will kill him . 
I am to come down to-night at eleven and watch with him . '' 
`` Perhaps I want you to take an interest in this poor devil , in case I should be absent ; perhaps I wish you to see the result of the Densdeth experiment , when it does not succeed ; perhaps -- well , Byng , you will promise me to expend a little of your superabundant vitality on my patient , if he needs it ? '' 
`` But , Mr. Churm , '' he continued , and here his bristly aspect intensified , as if a foe were at hand , `` Mr. Densdeth is back in the steamer . 
`` The sight of Densdeth would kill the man . 
Towner had some fine scheme by which he meant to make himself independent of Densdeth , and so escape from his service . 
But Densdeth did not propose to let his serf go free . 
He made it his business , so both the men think , to spoil the speculation , and ruin the two , financially . 
I got him this place , until he could look about and take a fresh start . '' 
`` Well , Densdeth is convenient . 
He might be brought in from that dark room of his , next door . 
`` Some one spilt the philter , '' said I , thinking of the scene over Densdeth 's wine . 
`` Few divine a young man 's posse , I fear , '' said I , as he paused to whiff . 
`` Possemust be put into a pipe and blown into an illustrious bubble , before the world perceives the esse , '' he rejoined . 
he continued , `` forgiven long ago ! 
He paused again , and the blank seemed to symbolize a blank in his life . 
`` It was a wide gulf to swim over , '' he said . 
He struck aside the smoke with a strong , swimmer 's gesture of the arm , -- a forceful character , as even his motions showed . 
It saddens me to meet him now , -- aged , worn , anxious , hardly daring to look me in the face , and , as I fear , wholly in the power of Densdeth . '' 
`` Densdeth ! '' 
cried I. `` Who and what is Densdeth ? 
Does he hold every man 's leadingstrings to the Devil ? '' 
`` What is Densdeth ? 
The march of events has paused while Densdeth was off . 
And to-day he steps from behind the curtain with you , a new character , half inclined to be his satellite . 
`` After his wife 's death , Denman said to me , ` Mr. Churm , Emma told me that you were willing , for old friendship 's sake , to give an eye to my two poor girls ' education . 
`` You did not approve her proposed marriage with Densdeth , -- that I am sure . '' 
Her last had been a pleading cry to me to succor her father against his growing intimacy with Densdeth . 
One of Densdeth 's schemes . 
Densdeth was the man 's hero . 
He could never talk without parading Densdeth . 
he would exclaim . 
` But then there was something very attractive , very exciting , about Clara , and he did n't wonder that Densdeth had selected her , -- lucky girl ! ' 
` I have it from the best authority , Densdeth himself . 
Here is his letter . 
He is to be married the twenty-third . 
`` There is still something incomprehensible to me in your horror of Densdeth . 
`` In the foremost coach I saw the Denmans and Densdeth . 
`` There sat Densdeth , colorless and impassive , opposite me . 
`` Densdeth interposed . 
I say you murdered her , -- you and Densdeth . ' 
`` He gave me a dull look , -- a pitiful look , for that proud , stately man , -- and turned appealingly to his supporter . 
``` Mr. Churm , ' said Densdeth , ` it is not like you to talk in this hasty way . 
`` Densdeth went on , with thorough self-possession . 
``` Four days ago , ' continued Densdeth without pause , ` her body was found , floated ashore on Staten Island . 
`` Denman shivered as Densdeth concluded his curt , business-like statement . 
Tell him , Densdeth , tell him how we spent care and time and money to recover the poor child . 
Do not let him think anything was neglected . ' 
`` He looked feebly from Densdeth to me . 
Then he turned to his daughter . 
said he , almost peevishly . 
`` I have no doubt the final facts are as Densdeth gave them . 
Her father I believe to be in Densdeth 's power . '' 
Densdeth knows it . 
Densdeth has said , ` Give me your daughter , or be posted as a rogue ! ' 
Densdeth to be my usher ! 
What if she , like her father , had deteriorated under Densdeth 's influence ? 
Clara driven to madness or despair , Emma bereaved , Denman lost to self-respect , Churm belied ; and in the background a malignant shadow , -- Densdeth . 
Who follows Densdeth and Churm ? 
That was the way with me when I failed , and Mr. Densdeth put up my creditors not to let me take the Stillwell . 
`` How did he happen to shelter in Chrysalis ? '' 
Passing Densdeth 's padlocked door , we turned toward the side staircase . 
He follows Densdeth and Churm , he precedes Emma Denman . 
I had heard no laugh since Densdeth 's at the Chuzzlewit dinner-table . 
That scoffing tone of his which broke in upon my queries to Churm regarding Cecil Dreeme was still in my ears . 
The memory of Densdeth 's laugh still misrepresented to me all laughter . 
I was hardly conscious how much faith had gone out of me , expelled by his sneering tone , until Dreeme 's musical , child-like laugh redressed the wrong . 
Instantly the wound of Densdeth 's cynicism was healed . 
Locksley now made his reappearance with the volcano . 
His silver laugh flowed free in chastened merriment . 
He seemed to forget that an hour ago he had been dying , friendless and alone ; to forget whatever sorrow or terror had driven him to this unnatural seclusion , up in the shabby precincts of Chrysalis College . 
His harangue at Selleridge 's had loosed his tongue , -- never in truth a very tight one , -- and he vented no end of odd phrases over the banquet . 
`` Namely , as you allege , Densdeth . '' 
`` Densdeth . '' 
`` I shall grow perverse enough to take Densdeth 's part , and cast my shell to de-ostracize him from his moral ostracism , if I hear him called The Unjust by all the world . '' 
Densdeth will pursue him and debase his soul through all the eternities , as he has done in this life . '' 
`` Do n't laugh at him ! 
It is a real agony with him ; and who knows but the danger is real ? '' 
`` So Densdeth is respited . 
Densdeth has magnetized you . 
He does most young men . '' 
`` I do n't know yet whether I shall turn to him my positive or negative pole . 
He may repel , instead of attracting , as soon as I get within his sphere . 
I acknowledge that I am drawn to him . '' 
Chuzzlewit , Patrick rampant , flannel cakes , and Densdeth ? '' 
At once , as if in echo to my words , I heard Densdeth 's cynic laugh behind me . 
Was Densdeth laughing at my silly boyish fervors ? 
He was sitting two tables off , breakfasting with a well-known man about town . 
Densdeth 's companion was one of those who have beauty which they debase , talents which they bury , money which they squander . 
He was a man of fine genius , but genius under a murky cloud , flashing out rarely in a sad or a scornful way . 
Densdeth nodded to me familiarly , as I turned . 
`` Do n't forget , '' said he , `` our appointment at one . 
I had touched only his better side , though I saw the worse . 
said Densdeth . 
`` Let us drop in , Raleigh , '' said Densdeth . 
Mr. Densdeth and Mr. Raleigh . '' 
`` Densdeth ! '' 
Should you not naturally avoid a person called Densdeth ? '' 
And as if the sound fascinated him , he repeated , `` Densdeth ! 
Densdeth ! '' 
`` Odd , that you , a stranger , should have the usual prejudice against Densdeth ! '' 
`` It is a privilege to wait , my dear fellow , '' said Densdeth , `` in such a treasure-house . 
Densdeth laughed . 
Both had caught that mocking tone of his . 
`` You flatter me , '' said Densdeth , again with his sinister laugh . 
Do n't make it too hot for me , Densdeth , when you get me below . 
That and the demonish quality in Densdeth quickened my glance at the old altar-cloth , which hung on the wall , among Stillfleet 's prints and pictures . 
Under these impressions , I did indeed identify Densdeth with the cloven-hoofed tempter in this characteristic bit of mediæval art . 
`` Come , '' said Densdeth , -- he was by chance standing in the exact attitude of the Tempter in the tapestry , -- `` come ; we shall have but just time for Byng 's introduction and our game of billiards . '' 
Densdeth 's arrival made a stir . 
`` They think Densdeth , the busy man , would never come here at this hour in the morning , unless some ill had happened , -- unless there were some new man to jeer , or woman to flout . 
Densdeth 's manner with his auditory was a study . 
`` Pigs , '' he seemed to say , `` I suppose I must feed you . 
Soon he tired of the herd , and led the way to a billiard-table , apart . 
`` I wanted to show you , Byng , '' said he , with an air of weary disgust , `` what kind of men will be your associates among the idlers . '' 
`` What an infernal humbug you are , Densdeth ! '' 
`` We are all humbugs , '' rejoined Densdeth ; `` I want to put Byng on his guard against me and the rest . 
I kept my protest to myself , willing to study Densdeth further . 
Densdeth led the conversation , as indeed he never failed to do . 
He was a keen , hard analyzer of men , utterly sceptical to good motives . 
Densdeth always discovered the selfish purpose , put it in focus , held up a lens of his own before it . 
Densdeth was the Apostle of Disenchantment . 
No paradisiacal innocence where he entered . 
He revealed evil everywhere . 
That was at the core , according to him , however smooth the surface showed . 
Thus I condense my impressions of him . 
I did not know him , in and in , out and out , after this first morning at the club , nor after many such meetings . 
I learnt him slowly . 
Yet I think I divined him from the first . 
I did not state to my own mind , then , why he captivated me , -- why he sometimes terrified me , -- why I had a hateful love for his society . 
Densdeth 's shadow was to fall upon me . 
My danger with evil personified , in such a man as Densdeth , was to sear into me a profound and saving horror of evil . 
We left Raleigh to be bored with the world and sick of himself , to knock the balls about , and wish he had been born a blacksmith or a hodcarrier . 
Densdeth and I walked to the Denmans . 
`` You will see a very captivating young lady , '' he said , with a sharp and rapid glance at me . 
He caught it also . 
There was a familiarity in his tone which offended me . 
I was angry at his disposing of my destiny and hers at once . 
In turn , I looked sharply at him , and said , in the same careless tone , `` How does Miss Denman compare with her sister ? '' 
Not a spark of emotion in his impassive face . 
But the smile vanished , and he said , quietly : `` We will not speak of the dead , if you please . 
`` I am quite sure no pauper owns this , '' Densdeth said , measuring it with a look , as we walked up the steps . 
they might almost have taken a lesson from Densdeth 's , so rapid were they to come and go , so evanescent and elusive was their glance . 
But Densdeth 's were chasing eyes ; hers were flying . 
Densdeth witnessed our recognition , and then excused himself . 
We both breathed freer upon his exit . 
It was impossible not to feel that he was always reading every act and thought ; and that consciousness of a ruthless stare turned in upon one 's little innocencies of heart is abashing to young people . 
Miss Denman had seemed uneasy while Densdeth stayed . 
She changed her seat , and with it her manner , as he departed . 
Now that Densdeth was gone , we sat in quiet mood , and let our old acquaintance renew itself . 
`` There are never any painless days , '' said she . 
I had not suspected her of any such uncontrollable emotion . 
She had seemed to me one to smile and flash , hardly earnest enough for an agony . 
`` Pardon me , '' she said , quelling her tears , `` but since those bright days I have suffered bitter sorrow . 
This was all she said , at the moment , of her sister 's death . 
I had no right to renew her distress even by sympathy . 
Mr. Densdeth introduces me at the club . 
The look she gave as I said this touched me strangely . 
It seemed as if her double had suddenly glided forward and peered at me through her evasive eyes . 
`` Your other choice among mentors , Mr. Densdeth , -- has he offered you any light upon my qualifications ? '' 
But he is not my choice . 
He has chosen me , if our companionship is choice , not chance . '' 
`` You accept him ? '' 
`` To know Densdeth by heart ! 
Do not let me prejudice you against Mr. Densdeth . 
He is our friend , our best friend ; but sometimes I suddenly have superstitious panics when I think of him and my sister 's death . '' 
In a moment Densdeth entered the room . 
With him was a large man , of somewhat majestic figure , a marked contrast to the slender grace of Densdeth . 
This new-comer was following , not leading , as if not he , but Densdeth , were the master in the house . 
As he welcomed me to his house , he glanced at Densdeth . 
Densdeth . 
`` That Mr. Densdeth , of whom you have once or twice spoken , -- is he one of them ? '' 
`` Are you still intimate with him ? '' 
He seeks my society . 
He interests me greatly . 
I know no man of such wide scope of information , such knowledge , such wit , such brilliancy , -- no one at all to compare with him , now that my friend Churm is absent . '' 
`` Churm and Densdeth ? '' 
But let me tell you that Churm 's knowledge of Densdeth gives the same result as these clairvoyant intuitions of yours . 
I suppose I am a perverse fellow for not obeying everybody 's ` Fœnum habet in cornu ' of Densdeth ; but I have Cato 's feeling for the weaker side , or at least the side assailed . 
I play with Densdeth , who really seems to me like an avatar of the wise Old Serpent himself , and then , before he has quite conquered me with his fascination , I snatch myself away , and come to you , to be aroused and healed . '' 
I find Densdeth a most valuable preceptor . 
He has sounded every man 's heart , in life or history , and can state the depth of evil there in fathoms , feet , and inches . 
I could no more do without him for that side of my education , than I could spare your dove-like teaching to make me harmless as a dove . 
You speak plainly of this Densdeth ; you understand his bad influence , and yet you deal with him as if he were some inert chemical combination , which you could safely handle and analyze . 
Your Robespierre might almost be a portrait of Densdeth . '' 
`` Singularly like Densdeth ! '' 
`` The same cold-blooded resolve , the same latent sneer , the same suppressed triumph , even the coxcombry you have given to your gentle butcher of ' 93 , -- all are Densdeth 's . 
May you not have seen and remembered his marked face ? '' 
`` Perhaps he has stared at you for an instant in a crowd . 
Perhaps you have caught a look of his from the window of a railroad-car . 
He may at some moment , without your conscious notice , have stamped himself ineffaceably upon your mind . '' 
`` Yes ; our talk about Densdeth , and your warnings against an exaggerated danger are fresh in my mind . 
Certainly , as I see the face , it is Densdeth 's very self . '' 
Robespierre -- Densdeth too , that adds to its value . 
I must hang it up where he can see it . 
I am curious to know whether he will recognize himself . '' 
you mean Densdeth . '' 
`` Yes ; while you allow him to dominate you , -- and mind , I take my impression from yourself , -- you will naturally seek a counterpart of his in the other sex . '' 
How can you learn to trust women while you allow yourself daily to listen , and only carelessly to protest , when Densdeth urges his doctrine , that women and men only wait opportunity to be base ? '' 
Churm away ; Densdeth my intimate ; Cecil Dreeme my friend of friends ; Emma Denman almost my love . 
Densdeth has spoilt you . '' 
It was Densdeth . 
` I 'm quite ashamed of you , Mr. Densdeth , ' says Matilda , with the air of one resolutely mortifying the flesh ; ` do n't you remember it 's Lent . 
While Densdeth made this talk , he glanced again at my companion . 
`` Do n't throw away your cigar , Byng , '' continued Densdeth , taking out his case , and stepping toward the lamp-post , to make , as it seemed to me , a very elaborate selection . 
Densdeth took my cigar to light his . 
The slight glow was sufficient to illuminate his face darkly . 
Something evidently had happened which gave Densdeth satisfacton . 
Whom had he vanquished to-night ? 
said Densdeth , tearing it in two , with his white-gloved hands , with a manner of dainty torture , as if he were inflicting an indignity upon a foe . 
said he , taking out another cigar , with even more elaborate selection , and as he did so glancing , quick and sharp , at my friend , who had retreated from the lamp . 
He lighted his cigar . 
Densdeth turned down the Avenue . 
He took my arm again and clung to it almost weakly . 
I asked , my tenderness for him all awake . 
`` Not the way that man has gone , '' said he . 
`` I heard him name himself Densdeth . 
I saw his face -- that cruel face of his . 
said I , somewhat moved by his panic , but still fancying so much alarm idle . 
You excite my curiosity in degree , though not in kind , quite as much as Densdeth does . 
And now that you and he are brought together , I hope these two mysterious personages will explain each other by some flash of hostile electricity . 
Densdeth , Cecil Dreeme , Emma Denman , -- these three figures battled strangely in my dreams . 
At the same time we both recognized Densdeth , regarding us . 
He was laughing with Raleigh and others . 
I seemed almost to hear the sharp tone of that cynical , faithless laugh of his . 
Between the acts , I saw Densdeth moving about , welcome everywhere , -- the man who had the key of the world . 
A golden key Densdeth carried . 
that includes all but a mere decimation , threw open their doors to Densdeth . 
Opera-box and the tenants of the box were free to him . 
The drama was nearly done , and he had not been to pay his respects to Emma Denman , though he had bowed and smiled in congratulation . 
`` Densdeth does not come to tell you how brilliantly you are looking to-night , '' I said . 
`` I do not need his verdict , '' she said , coldly enough ; -- and then , as if I might take the coldness to myself , she added , `` since I have yours , and it is favorable . '' 
she said , turning from me . 
The conceited tenor in his velvet doublet , unsullied by his late despair , the truculent basso , now in jovial mood , the prima donna , past her prime , sidled along , hand in hand , behind the foot-lights , and bowed to the backs of two thirds of the audience , and to the muffled resonance of the white gloves of the other third . 
As I ran up the stairs , and was just at the top steps , whence I should turn into the corridor where the lady was waiting , I heard the ominous sound of Densdeth 's laugh . 
It seemed even baser , more cynical and false , than Densdeth 's ; for threaded in it , and tarnished by the contact , were silver notes I had often heard in genuine merriment . 
Only those two were standing there , -- Densdeth and she . 
His back was turned toward me . 
And then , as I entered the corridor by a side-door , before she was conscious of my presence , she gave Densdeth a look which curdled my blood . 
That memory is the look I saw Emma Denman give to Densdeth . 
Densdeth turned , and bowed to me politely enough , smiling also , as if to himself , behind his black moustache . 
It was not the first time that his scornful smile had seemed to me to take a cast of triumph as he regarded me . 
For I was quite satisfied that Densdeth was never to win any very substantial victory over me . 
I could seek his society in perfect safety , so I fancied , against its debasing influence . 
He never should wield me as he did Raleigh , nor master me as he did that swinish multitude at the club , or those wolves in Wall Street . 
But now his vanishing smile of triumph chilled me . 
If I was so wronged in my faith , what would hinder me henceforth from losing all faiths , and so becoming the hateful foe of my race , and being forced into detested alliance with this unholy spirit -- this corruption -- Densdeth ! 
Densdeth bowed , and left us . 
Was I not doing her foul injustice , and visiting it unfairly and cruelly upon her , that I had let myself be the comrade of ignoble and sensual people , -- of Densdeth , to whom no purity was sacred ? 
As I passed the padlocked door of Densdeth 's dark room , next to mine , I fancied him lurking within , and leering triumphantly at me through the key-hole . 
And then in the sound of the storm , sighing along the halls and staircases , and shaking the narrow windows , I seemed to hear that mocking laugh of Densdeth 's , -- that hard , exulting laugh of his , -- that expressive laugh , -- saying , with all the cruelty of scorn , and proclaiming to the scoffing legions who love the fall of noble souls , -- `` Here , at last ! 
Such sounds seemed to me to issue from that dark room of Densdeth 's , to clothe themselves with those tones of his , which I had heard to-night echoed by the lips of the woman I longed to love , and to pervade the building , like a batwinged flight of fiendish presences , claiming me as their comrade , whether I would or no . 
If I should lose him , if he should abandon me , I might be ready to take the world as Densdeth wishes . 
That ancient tapestry caught my eye , where Raleigh had found Densdeth in the demon . 
That malignant face -- Densdeth 's , and no other -- was looking at me with a meaning smile . 
I could not tolerate this morning a fellow with a new treasuretrove of scandal , the last cynical joke or base story '' ; -- and I thought of Densdeth , and other men , the coarsened and exaggerated shadows of Densdeth , who sometimes lounged in upon me for a lazy hour . 
Pensal went off for his friends . 
His terror of exposing himself was still great , and would be more extravagant after his panic-struck flight from Densdeth . 
`` But Densdeth might come , '' shuddered the invalid . 
`` He never comes here . 
He 'd better not , '' said Locksley , bristling . 
`` Who keeps the key of his dark room ? '' 
`` His servant , I suppose . 
Night before last , -- can it be only night before last that we met Densdeth ? '' 
`` Densdeth ! '' 
`` Is he in this business ? '' 
And then across my mind flitted my friend 's warnings against Densdeth , the meeting at Mrs. Bilkes 's steps , the covert inspection , Densdeth 's triumphant , cruel look , the panic , the flight , the conversation , -- all the mystery of Dreeme . 
To be taught the bitterest lesson a soul can learn , '' said I ; and again I seemed to hear that mocking sound of Densdeth 's laugh , echoed from the lips of Emma Denman , in the corridor of the Opera-House ; again I seemed to see that hateful look of hers . 
We were walking as usual night before last , when we met Densdeth . '' 
`` Densdeth ! 
`` Densdeth observed us . 
Densdeth , we suspected , followed us . 
But it would be easy for Densdeth , if he pleased , to watch Chrysalis , see me enter , and identify my companion . 
We are to try the very culprit you hinted then , -- Densdeth . '' 
`` Not in person , unless he may be lurking there in his dark room , to listen . '' 
Now that I begin to know more of Densdeth , the thought of that place sickens me . '' 
`` He has harmed you , then , in my absence . '' 
`` Into Densdeth 's dark room ? '' 
You are safe from Densdeth . '' 
If his superior being and chosen guide had been a hero , and not a devil like Densdeth , he might never have become the poor dastard he is . '' 
It was one of Densdeth 's favorite weaknesses ; he loved to make confident ignoramuses talk of horses , wines , pictures , subjects on which a little knowledge generally makes a man a fool . 
Densdeth had no doubt found Towner 's ambition toward the tastes of a gentleman a mighty ally in mastering the man . 
`` You will keep me safe from Densdeth ? '' 
It would take me days to tell you the base things I have done to help Densdeth to his million and his power . 
He has been the malignant curse of my life . 
I feel him now in my very soul , whispering me not to make confidants of people that will only hate me for my guilt and scorn me for my weakness . '' 
`` I need not go through a long story to tell you how Densdeth mastered Mr. Denman . 
Denman had an uneasy feeling that , with all his money , he was Nobody . 
He fancied more money would make him Somebody . 
That was basis enough for Densdeth . 
What a child Denman was in his hands ! 
It was Densdeth who suggested , and I who had to stand the odium of , that first scheme of Denman 's , to trample on the rights of the minority , and get the property of his railroad company into his own hands . '' 
`` I suspected Densdeth 's . 
`` I do n't see why he should have more sympathy than others . '' 
`` That transaction was Densdeth 's first victory over Denman . 
From that time Denman , and whatever he had , was Densdeth 's . 
If I am not wrong , there is another , still in that house , that he has harmed , if not spoiled . '' 
`` Densdeth led Denman on , step by step , '' continued Towner , `` deeper and deeper into his gigantic financial schemes . 
He began to fancy himself Somebody . 
said Densdeth to me , ` the booby will try to walk alone presently . 
Then he will have to go on his knees to me to keep him up . ' 
` Now , ' said Densdeth to me , ` I have got the man . ' 
` What more do you want , ' said I , ` than you have already gained by him ? ' 
` I want his daughter Clara , ' he said . 
`` So , to be brief , Densdeth said , ` Denman , compel your daughter to marry me , or you go to prison ! ' 
said Densdeth , '' continued the sick man , `` when Denman told him of this . 
Letter first from Mr. Churm , in London , -- `` My dear Clara : I have heard with heartfelt satisfaction of your approaching marriage with your father 's friend and mine , Mr. Densdeth , '' & c. Letter second , -- `` My dear Clara : It gives me great pain to know from your father that your mind is not made up as to your marriage . 
It is impossible to find a more distinguished or worthier gentleman than my friend Densdeth , or one who will make you happier . 
Except you are my friend Densdeth 's wife , I shall never write or speak to you again . '' ' '' 
I was the hand of Densdeth . 
Consign such a woman to Densdeth ! 
`` She was another that Densdeth had spoilt . 
She hated and dreaded him as much as I did . 
She naturally resented his marriage to another woman . 
Densdeth found it out , and stopped it . 
He finds out everything , sooner or later . 
He suspected me of an attempt to revolt from his dominion . 
He suspected me of instigating the young woman to show herself to his future wife . 
He made me stand by and listen , while , in his cool , cruel way , he sneered the poor girl into utter despair . 
`` And Densdeth ? '' 
`` He did at first . 
He did not believe that any woman could have eluded the strict and instant search he instituted and conducted all over the country . 
`` Perhaps Densdeth searched too far away from home , '' said Churm , glancing at me . 
`` He went to Europe for that purpose . 
When he missed the real drowned woman , he came to me , and charged me with aiding Miss Denman to escape , and substituting the body . 
He soon discovered that I knew nothing of it . 
And Densdeth was in all this . 
He too had been a friend of Densdeth 's . 
He might have knowledge of these mysteries . 
I observed him more particularly . 
All his usual nonchalance had departed . 
He was pale and anxious ; but withal , his face expressed his better self , the nobler man I had always recognized in him . 
And he pointed to the door of Densdeth 's dark room . 
I also whispered , with an irrepressible dread stealing over me , `` Densdeth again ! '' 
`` Foes of Densdeth , both ! 
I have wasted hours already , struggling in my heart to throw off the base empire of Densdeth . 
Two men , Densdeth and that black rascal , his servant . 
Yes , Densdeth had Clara Denman in that carriage . '' 
Densdeth got out to parley with him . 
The hag and Densdeth 's servant dragged her back . 
Clara Denman , whom the world thought dead , has come to light , mad , and Densdeth , the friend of the family , her betrothed , has very naturally been selected to put her into a madhouse . ' '' 
And Densdeth ! '' 
I remembered the impression that Miss Denman had committed suicide rather than be forced into a marriage with Densdeth . 
Intimate as I have been with him , I can comprehend how to a nature like hers he would be a horror . '' 
`` Densdeth knew that she had no friends , '' said Churm , bitterly . 
`` He knew that the manner and place of her hiding would favor his charge . '' 
`` It is audacious , '' said Raleigh , `` and so is Densdeth . 
It has cost me a great and bitter struggle , this day , to tear that man out of my heart , to overcome my pride and inertia , and come and tell you , Mr. Churm , that I miserably despise myself ; yes , and to say that I need the help and countenance of men like you to aid me to be a true man again , -- to abandon Densdeth , and set myself forever against him and all his kind . '' 
But he would act with Densdeth . 
I had forgotten , and did forget , in this excitement , to ask Towner what use Densdeth made of his dark room . 
What with indignation at Densdeth , the janitor had got far beyond his usual bristly porcupine condition . 
He has shaken off Densdeth ; he looks as if he could turn and tear him . '' 
He might open his doors to me , as Densdeth 's friend , when he would exclude you . '' 
`` I take him , '' said Churm , `` because I doubt his resolution . 
He might confess to Densdeth that he had confessed to us . 
We must not lose sight of him . '' 
Let us but run Densdeth to earth , and I dare promise you will find your friend . 
Do you suppose , Towner , a life so cursed as his will be contented with that indirect application of the lex talionis?No ; Densdeth must be stopped and punished . '' 
`` I would not give much for Densdeth 's life , '' thought I , `` if his late serf should meet him now . 
`` Densdeth , '' again whispered Raleigh , `` Densdeth told me he had been looking at a new black horse . '' 
All felt that Densdeth 's appearance here , at this moment , might be harmful . 
They had met -- Towner and Densdeth ! 
For there , among the tawdry flowers of the carpet , lay Densdeth , -- dead , or dying of a deadly wound . 
I raised Densdeth 's head . 
The strange fascination of his face became doubly subtle , as he seemed still to gaze at me with closed eyelids , like a statue 's . 
`` Spare me , Densdeth ! '' 
We saw him from the window , flying on Densdeth 's horse . 
Death in his house by violence meant investigation , and that he did not dare encounter . 
He was off , and so escaped justice for a time . 
`` Densdeth ? '' 
Densdeth dead ! 
I could comprehend the impression these ardent moods had made upon Densdeth 's intellect . 
It was , indeed , splendid tragedy to hear him speak , -- splendid , if the tragedy had not been all too real , and yet unfinished . 
`` Dislike and distrust , repugnance against him for his plot , -- had you no other feeling toward Densdeth ? '' 
Then came the insurrection of all my woman 's heart against his corruption of my father 's nature and compulsion of me through him . 
Mr. Densdeth treated me with personal respect . 
He left the ugly work to my father , his slave . 
` Mr. Churm , ' he replied , ` would have no sympathy for this freak of rejecting a man so distinguished and unexceptionable as Mr. Densdeth . ' 
I sent for Densdeth . 
It was as if Densdeth were called back , and sitting by our side . 
To me , the friend of her father , the comrade of Densdeth , the disciple of Churm , perhaps the lover of her sister , the ally of all whose perfidy had wronged her , -- how could she offer to me the confidence that would compel me to choose between her and them ? 
Tell us how you came at last into Densdeth 's power . '' 
Densdeth 's black servant -- that Afreet creature -- sprang out with another person . 
No wonder that Densdeth smiled triumphant in the corridor of the opera , -- smiled in double triumph over me ! 
At the ferry Densdeth got into the carriage . 
Only Densdeth knew the crime . 
But Densdeth gone , poverty and sudden defeat of all his ambitious schemes must befall him . '' 
As we passed the door of Densdeth 's dark room , each was conscious anew how death had freed the world from that demon influence . 
To-morrow it would be filled with staring capitals , and all this sorry business of the execution of Densdeth and the exposing of Huffmire . 
I snatched it , drew my bolts , and smote with all my force at the inner lock of the door of Densdeth 's dark room . 
