Over my fireplace , however , hangs the picture which I value most -- a portrait of my ancestor , Champ Effingham , Esq. . 
Add velvet garters below the knee : -- a little muff of leopard-skin reposing near at hand upon a chair -- not omitting a snuff-box peeping from the pocket , and Mr. Champ Effingham , just from Oxford and his grand tour , is before you with his various surroundings . 
He is reading the work which some time since attained to such extreme popularity , Mr. Joseph Addison 's serial , `` The Spectator , '' -- collected now for its great merits , into bound volumes . 
Mr. Effingham reads with a languid air , just as he sits , and turns over the leaves with an ivory paper cutter , which he brought from Venice with the plate glass yonder on the sideboard near the silver baskets and pitchers . 
This languor is too perfect to be wholly affected , and when he yawns , as he does frequently , Mr. Effingham applies himself to that task very earnestly . 
In one of these paroxysms of weariness the volume slips from his hand to the floor . 
`` My book , '' he says to a negro boy , who has just brought in some dishes . 
Mr. Effingham then continues reading . 
The explanation of this sudden event is , that Mr. Effingham has become tired of the `` Spectator , '' hurled it sidewise from him without looking ; and thus the volume has , after its habit , produced a decided sensation , throwing the work-box upon the lawn , and Kate into utter despair . 
Mr. Effingham yawns . 
he says languidly . 
Mr. Effingham sees the catastrophe at a glance , and apparently smitten with remorse , tries to ascertain the extent of the injury . 
But the morning seems an unlucky one for him . 
As he places his heel upon the carpet , he unfortunately treads with his whole weight upon the long silky ear of his sister 's favorite lapdog Orange , who is about the size of the fruit from which he takes his name . 
Drawn by his successive yells , a lady appears at the door and enters the apartment hurriedly . 
Miss Alethea , only sister of Mr. Effingham , is a lady of about thirty , with a clear complexion , serene eyes , her hair trained back into a tower ; and with an extremely stately and dignified expression . 
Mr. Effingham regales his nostrils with a pinch of snuff , and replies indifferently : `` Probably Orange has an indigestion , or perhaps he is uttering those horrible sounds because I stepped upon his ear . '' 
Mr. Effingham nods serenely . 
Miss Alethea exclaims , and her black silk rustling , she goes to Orange and takes him in her arms . 
But in brushing by Mr. Effingham her ample sleeve chances to strike that gentleman 's snuff-box , and the contents of the useful article are discharged over little Kate , who coughing , sneezing , crying and laughing , perfects the scene . 
says Mr. Effingham , reproachfully , and yawning as he speaks ; `` you have thrown my snuff upon Kate . '' 
he says , `` it 's excellent snuff . 
It wo n't hurt you -- now do n't -- '' With such observations Mr. Effingham is quieting the child , when another addition is made to the company . 
This is in the person of a young gentleman of thirteen or fourteen -- Master Willie Effingham , Mr. Champ 's brother , and a devoted admirer of Kate . 
`` Mine , '' replies Mr. Effingham ; `` there are no excuses to be made ; arrange the terms of the combat . '' 
drawls Mr. Effingham . 
Will raises his head proudly . 
`` Kate is his favorite and playmate -- '' `` As Orange is yours , '' says Mr. Effingham , languidly , the lapdog having uttered an expiring howl . 
says Will , who has been looking daggers at Mr. Effingham for kissing the child . 
`` Never mind , Katy , '' says Mr. Effingham , smiling as he passes his hand caressingly over the little head ; `` I unfortunately broke it , but you shall have one twice as handsome ; I saw one in Williamsburg yesterday , which I thought of getting for Clare Lee -- but you shall have it . '' 
`` I believe not , '' says Mr. Effingham . 
`` The Epicurean philosophy is greatly to my taste , '' says Mr. Effingham , `` riding wearies me . '' 
This half compliment produces no effect upon Mr. Effingham , who yawns . 
says Mr. Effingham . 
`` Consequently , as I am a mortal man -- I draw the inference , '' says Mr. Effingham . 
Mr. Effingham relents . 
`` I think that is very desirable , sir , '' he says , `` and on my word , I 'll go . 
Mr. Effingham orders his horse -- descends soon in boots and riding gloves , and mounting , sets forth towards the abode of the angel -- Miss Clare Lee . 
Mr. Effingham , elegantly clad in a riding costume , perfect in its appointment , and mounted on a splendid courser which he had appropriated from his father 's stud , took his way through the fresh woods towards Riverhead , the residence of Mr. Lee and his two daughters , Henrietta and Clare . 
But Mr. Effingham was much too sensible a gentleman to bore himself , as we say to-day , with the fine scenery of October -- the fair blue skies , with their snowy clouds floating on like ships towards the clear horizon -- the variegated woods full of singing birds -- the streams dancing in the sun -- and all the myriad attractions of an autumn afternoon . 
His taste had been shaped in London , and the glare of lights , the noise of revelry , and gay encounter of bright wits and beauty , had long since deprived him of the faculty of admiring such an insipid thing as simple nature . 
At times , as he went along , Mr. Effingham indulged in a sort of silent , well-bred laughter , at the scene he had just witnessed at the Hall . 
`` What a farce the world is , '' he said , philosophically , `` we all run after something -- one has his literary ambition , another political aspiration : this young lady wishes to marry a lord : that young gentleman 's highest hope in life is , that his comedy may not be damned for its want of freedom -- the polite word now I understand . 
Embroidery and lapdogs cost less , and -- '' Mr. Effingham drew up suddenly -- so suddenly , that his horse rose on his haunches , and tossed his head aloft . 
The meaning of this movement was simply that he saw before him in the centre of the road he was following , a lady , who apparently awaited his approach . 
The other gloved hand supported her cheek ; and in this position the unknown lady calmly awaited Mr. Effingham 's approach still nearer , though he was already nearly touching her . 
Mr. Effingham took off his hat and bowed with elegant courtesy . 
`` With great pleasure , madam , '' replied Mr. Effingham , `` you have lost your way ! '' 
`` You have but to follow this road until you reach Effingham Hall , madam , '' he said -- `` the house in the distance yonder : then turn to the left , and you are in the highway to town . '' 
asked Mr. Effingham , whose curiosity was greatly aroused , and found his eyes , he knew not why , riveted to the rare beauty of his companion 's face , `` do you not need me as a guide ? '' 
`` But really , '' began Mr. Effingham , somewhat piqued , `` I know it is intrusive -- I know I have not the honor -- '' She interrupted him with her immovable calmness . 
`` One moment , madam , '' said Mr. Effingham ; `` I am really dying with curiosity to know you . 
Mr. Effingham scarcely believed his ears : these astounding words were uttered with such perfect calmness that there was no possible room to suppose that they were meant for a jest . 
He could not speak : he only looked at her . 
Mr. Effingham remained for several moments motionless , in the middle of the road , gazing with wide and astonished eyes after the beautiful equestrian . 
He was endeavoring by a tremendous mental exertion to solve the astounding problem of her identity . 
Vain was all his pondering -- nothing came of all his thought , his knit brows , his lip gnawed ferociously , as he mused . 
Mr. Effingham was confident that he knew , at least by sight , every young lady at Williamsburg , and within a circuit of twenty miles , but this face was p520-033 wholly unknown to him . 
He had certainly never seen her before , and then the strange fact of her riding out alone : her self-possession : `` she was accustomed to ride alone '' -- `` she was not a lady '' -- `` they should probably meet again '' -- what in the name of Fate , was the meaning of all this ? 
exclaimed Mr. Effingham , emphatically . 
And having thus disburdened his mind , he rode on -- but still his mind dwelt on the strange lady , and her more singular words . 
Mr. Effingham ran over in his mind , the whole of his friends and acquaintances , and could recollect no one whose face bore the slightest resemblance to that of the unknown lady . 
He gave up in despair , finally , and struck his spurs into the noble animal he rode , with unusual vigor . 
The horse started forward , and in half an hour he had reached Riverhead . 
The first lady was Miss Henrietta Lee : -- the second was her sister , Miss Clare Lee , between whom and Mr. Effingham a sort of undeveloped courtship existed . 
Mr. Effingham approached the ladies , trailing the feather of his hat upon the grass . 
Mr. Effingham ! '' 
`` In sober truth , '' replied Mr. Effingham , languidly twirling his cocked hat : `` near cousins , you know , have many agreeable privileges . 
`` That is enough , '' continued Mr. Effingham , `` when a lady smiles she always means yes . '' 
And smoothing gently the ruffles at his breast , Mr. Effingham yawned . 
Mr. Effingham looked round in apparent astonishment . 
And Mr. Effingham , in an elegant , petit maitremanner , narrated his adventure , as he was pleased to call it , with the unknown horsewoman . 
In which case , '' continued Mr. Effingham , gallantly , `` I should not have experienced the happiness of gazing at your pleasant and beautiful countenances , cousins Henrietta and Clare . '' 
And Mr. Effingham 's glance dwelt for a moment almost tenderly on the face of Clare , who looked like a pure angel , in the bright crimson light of sunset . 
whispered Mr. Effingham . 
-- '' Mr. Effingham was getting on . 
Mr. Effingham bowed , and Clare bent down to examine , with profound curiosity , the rosebud which she held in her little hand . 
`` The evening was so fine , that I thought I could not spend it more agreeably than in a ride to Riverhead , sir , '' said Mr. Effingham . 
Mr. Effingham winced ; he had more than once expressed a similar opinion of Virginia in good faith -- not ironically -- and the old gentleman 's words seemed directed at himself . 
he said , `` that is really good news : -- but the ` Merchant of Venice ' is not one of my acquaintances . '' 
said Mr. Effingham , languidly . 
`` Oh , we 'll have a delightful time , '' cried Clare , glancing at Mr. Effingham softly and frankly . 
The squire uttered these oracular words at his dinner-table on the day after Mr. Champ Effingham 's visit to Riverhead . 
`` Even the very parsons will go to the devil , '' here interposed Mr. Champ Effingham , with an evident desire to yawn . 
replied Mr. Effingham , coolly ; `` by no means , most reverend sir . 
`` You are right , '' replied Mr. Effingham , with languid indifference ; `` nothing is so disagreeable as these appeals to the feelings which you speak of , most reverend sir . 
asked Mr. Effingham , languidly . 
`` You should , sir ; the estate of Effingham falls to you as eldest son . '' 
`` I trust , respected sir , that I shall worthily comport myself in that station in life to which it hath pleased Heaven to call me , '' drawled Mr. Effingham . 
`` Never jest with the forms of the Established Church , sir , '' said his father , with some asperity ; for however willing the squire was to applaud a jest at the parson 's expense , one directed at the church itself was a very different matter . 
Mr. Effingham assented , with a careless inclination of his head . 
This observation being directed at Mr. Effingham , that gentleman replied indifferently : `` Of course -- of course . '' 
Master Will , who had been making assiduous love to Kate , engaged now on Carlo 's nose , caught Mr. Effingham 's Latin , and betook himself to a sotto vocecriticism on the speaker . 
added this young scion of the house of Effingham , thus betraying the disinterested and impartial character of his criticism . 
`` Nothing much , '' says Mr. Champ Effiingham , who has watched the assault of his younger brother with philosophic interest , `` merely an illustration of the truth of my views . '' 
At Mr. Effingham 's `` moral , '' however , he boiled over . 
he said , `` that 's pretty , coming from you , brother Champ , when old June from Riverhead says he saw you yesterday courting cousin Clare ! '' 
The squire burst into a hearty laugh , and rallied Mr. Effingham without mercy . 
said Mr. Effingham , indifferently , `` well , I think so too . '' 
`` No matter , '' concludes Mr. Effingham , yawning , `` I have only to observe that I am willing to take Miss Clare or any other agreeable young lady for my wedded wife : -- and now , as I feel drowsy , I beg leave of you , parson , and you , respected sir , to excuse me ; I am going to take a nap . '' 
With which words Mr. Effingham saunters through the door , and slowly ascends the broad stairs to his chamber . 
Mr. Champ Effingham had asked permission to be one of the party , it will be remembered , and that permission had been granted by Miss Henrietta with the merry speech we have recorded . 
So on the appointed day , Mr. Effingham , in his most becoming riding suit , and mounted on his handsomest courser , made his appearance at Riverhead . 
The young ladies came down to him , already dressed for their excursion to town -- as Williamsburg was called , just as they called London `` the Town '' in England -- and Miss Henrietta commenced immediately her accustomed amusement of bantering their visitor . 
But Mr. Effingham , gazing at her quietly , with little care for Miss Henrietta 's sky-rockets , thought he had never seen a more enchantingly beautiful face ; so soft and tender was it , with the bright hair gathered back from the temples , and strewed all over with its pearly powder ; so warm and red were the girlish lips ; so clear and mild the large melting eyes . 
Mr. Effingham began to think seriously of having in future a distinct aim in life -- to make his own this fairy creature , who had thus moved his worn-out heart , making him feel once more some of the light and joy and enthusiasm of his boyhood -- that time passed from him , it really seemed , long ages ago . 
Clare did not return his gaze , but busied herself in turning over the leaves of a new book from England , with an affectation of interest which was the merest failure . 
Really all my wit is thrown away upon Mr. Effingham , '' said Henrietta suddenly , with a beautiful pout ; `` he has not done me the honor to listen , I believe -- my last question waiting a reply from him . '' 
Mr. Effingham waked up , so to speak , and turned round . 
he asked indifferently . 
`` I say that my cousin , Mr. Effingham , is the most affected personage I have ever known . '' 
`` In London , '' said Mr. Effingham , concisely . 
said Mr. Effingham , with languid indiffernece . 
`` Your own are more so , and I think cousin Clare 's more so still , '' returned Mr. Effingham ; `` but let us dismiss the subject of ruffles and roses , and come to the play . 
And Mr. Effingham drew daintily from his coat pocket a small roughly-printed handbill , which he spread out before the eyes of Clare . 
``` Virginia Company of Comedians , ' '' he read , ``` by permission of his worship the Mayor -- in the Old Theatre near the Capitol , Thursday evening -- a tragedy called `` The Merchant of Venice , '' by Mr. William Shakespeare -- boxes seven shillings sixpence -- vivat Rex et Regina -- ' here it is : -- ` Shylock , Mr. Pugsby -- Portia , Miss Beatrice Hallam : ' The part of Portia is to be performed by Miss Beatrice Hallam -- I have never seen or heard of her . '' 
`` Which means , '' said Henrietta , laughing , `` that Miss Beatrice can not be very well worth going to see , as Mr. Champ Effingham , just from London , and conversant with all the celebrities there , has never heard of her existence . '' 
`` My dear cousin Henrietta , '' said Mr. Effingham , languidly , `` you really seem to sit in judgment on my wearisome conversation . 
Mr. Effingham took up his muff . 
`` I swing it on my arm , '' replied Mr. Effingham , indifferently . 
Mr. Effingham assisted the ladies in with great elegance and gallantry . 
After performing this social duty , he made a slight bow , and was going toward his horse . 
Mr. Effingham was waiting for Clare to invite him to enter , and no one who looked at his face , and witnessed his tell-tale gaze could doubt it . 
Clare stole a glance at him , and said , with a slight blush , `` There 's plenty of room . '' 
Mr. Effingham took two steps toward the chariot . 
`` But my horse , '' he said . 
Mr. Effingham then yielded -- he only wanted the excuse , indeed -- and entering the chariot , was about to sit down by the old gentleman , opposite the young girls . 
Mr. Effingham plainly had no objection , and , as before , in the matter of riding within or without , waited for Clare 's manifesto on the subject . 
This time he would have been satisfied with a simple glance granting him permission -- so very reasonable was this gentleman at bottom -- but unfortunately Clare did not invite him , either with her lips or eyes . 
The consequence was that Mr. Effingham refused Henrietta 's invitation , with a graceful wave of his muff-ornamented arm , and the glasses of the old gentleman having been transferred from the seat to his nose , gently subsided into the softly-cushioned space left free for him , smoothing his ruffles , and arranging delicately the drop-curls of his powdered peruke . 
Mr. Champ Effingham was , upon the whole , much the most notable fop present ; and his elegant , languid , petit maîtreair , as he strolled across the stage , attracted many remarks , not invariably favorable . 
It was observed , however , that when the Virginia-bred youths , with honest plainness , called him `` ridiculous , '' the young ladies , their companions , took Mr. Effingham 's part , and defended him with great enthusiasm . 
Only when they returned home , Mr. Effingham was more unmercifully criticised than he would otherwise have been . 
The parson was , therefore , in a forgiving state of mind , and at that moment would not have refused to agree with the squire if that gentleman had stated his opinion that Mr. Effingham 's natural genius and moral purity were sublime . 
`` Let us dismiss the subject , '' says Will , gently caressing his upper lip as Mr. Champ was doing opposite , `` if that 's the way you 're going on when we are married , I 'll have a time of it . '' 
At the end of the first act Mr. Effingham left his companions , with whom he had been interchanging remarks during the performance , to the great disgust of the pit , and sauntered to the side of Miss Clare Lee , who sat nearest the stage . 
Never had she looked more beautiful , with her bright eyes and soft rosy cheeks -- and this fact probably occurred to Mr. Effingham : for his gaze betrayed unmistakable admiration . 
No one , however , would have discovered it from his manner , which was as full of languor as ever . 
he asked . 
`` Yes , '' said Mr. Effingham , `` and a very brilliant one it would be , if all the world were Miss Henriettas . 
`` I 'm rather a poor hand at compliments , '' replied Mr. Effingham , `` but really it is hard to do you the injustice , my fair cousin , of withholding them . 
`` It was very well done , much like Shuter at Castle Garden , '' said Mr. Effingham , `` how did you like it , cousin Henrietta ? 
Mr. Hamilton , the fox-hunter , entered and took his seat , and Henrietta was now engaged in a laughing and animated conversation . 
`` How I envy them , '' said Mr. Effingham , applying to his nostrils , with a listless air , a delicate pinch of snuff , `` they are so gay . '' 
Mr. Effingham leaning over the velvet cushion , and speaking in a tone audible to no one besides himself and Clare , replied : `` I am out of sorts , because I am rusting . '' 
For my part , I am sick of all this , and only stay , '' Mr. Effingham added , lowering his voice , `` because youstay . 
Clare blushed this time in earnest , and yet , gathering self-possession , looked into Mr. Effingham 's face and smiled . 
he said , with profound earnestness . 
There was so much childlike frankness in the tone with which these words were uttered , that Mr. Effingham felt his heart leaving him , and going quickly into the possession of the owner of the red cheeks . 
Yet strange to say , he felt no pain , but rather pleasure . 
`` I really believe I am growing less tired of the play , and all , '' he said to himself , with a smile : then added aloud : `` I really think you could charm away my misanthropy and melancholy , if you desired , cousin . '' 
The softness and earnestness in the tender voice of the young girl , and the interest in himself betrayed by her tone , was so plain that Mr. Effingham felt his languid heart beat . 
`` I know but one means , '' he said . 
His meaning suddenly flashed upon her , and she turned away her head . 
`` To have the philosopher always near me '' said Mr. Effingham , imprisoning in his own the hand which rested on the railing . 
he whispered , `` if you take such a tender interest in my welfare -- why not -- '' `` Sh -- h -- h -- h ! '' 
`` True , '' muttered Mr. Effingham , turning away , `` how ridiculous , here in the theatre ! '' 
Suddenly his eyes fell upon one of the actresses , and he almost uttered an exclamation . 
Mr. Effingham drew forth his bill , and saw opposite the name of Portia , Miss Beatrice Hallam . 
`` Ah , yes , '' he said , carelessly , `` the same we were speculating upon , this morning . 
He sat down in the corner of the stage upon a wicker chair , and scanned Portia critically . 
Thus the costume of the character defied criticism , and Mr. Effingham passed on to the face and figure . 
The countenance of Beatrice Hallam wore the same simple , yet firm and collected expression , which Mr. Effingham had observed in their first interview , and her figure had the same indefinable grace and beauty . 
Every movement which she made might have suited a royal palace , and in her large brilliant eyes Mr. Effingham in vain sought the least trace of confusion . 
Mr. Effingham leaned forward and touched the young woman 's sleeve . 
`` Come , '' he said , with easy carelessness , and scarcely moderating his voice , `` come , fair Portia , while that tiresome fellow is making his speech , talk to me a little . 
Mr. Effingham laughed . 
`` Come here and talk to me , '' he said , `` did you not say we should meet again ? '' 
And the young woman quietly disengaging her sleeve from Mr. Effingham 's fingers , moved away to another portion of the stage . 
`` Here is a pretty affair , '' said Mr. Effingham to himself , as he fell back , languidly , into the chair , from which , however , he had not deigned to rise wholly when addressing the young actress , `` what are things coming to when an actress treats a gentleman in this manner . 
Portia entered next with the Prince of Arragon , and while that gentleman was addressing the caskets , Mr. Effingham again applied himself to the task of forcing the young woman to converse with him . 
he said , with abrupt carelessness . 
`` Besides , sir , '' added the young woman , surveying Mr. Effingham with an indifferent glance , `` I know you only very slightly . '' 
`` Know me only slightly , '' cried Mr. Effingham , affecting surprise . 
Mr. Effingham turned round disdainfully , and looked up to the gallery from which the hiss came . 
Thereafter the young woman came no more near Mr. Effingham , and treated that gentleman 's moody glances with supreme disregard . 
What was going on in Mr. Effingham 's mind , and why did he lose some of his careless listlessness when , clasping her beautiful hands , the lovely girl , raising her eyes to heaven , like one of the old Italian pictures , uttered that sublime discourse on the `` quality of mercy '' ? 
-- how did it chance that Mr. Effingham led the enthusiastic applause , and absolutely rose erect in the excess of his enthusiasm ? 
As she passed him in going out , he made her a low bow , and said , `` Pardon me ! 
A single glance , and a calm movement of the head , were the only reply to this speech ; and with this Mr. Effingham was compelled to remain content . 
He returned to the side of Clare , thoughtful and pre-occupied . 
`` Some folly which deserved hissing , probably , '' returned Mr. Effingham , wondering at his own words as he spoke ; `` but here are the actors again . '' 
Mr. Effingham 's eyes dwelt upon her to the last , and even Clare spoke to him in vain . 
he said , at last , disdainfully , and almost aloud ; `` come , cousin Clare , the chariot is ready at the door . 
But why did Mr. Effingham preserve such inexplicable silence in the chariot ? 
Why did Henrietta tell him that the performance must have made him sleepy ? 
Why did he push his horse angrily as he galloped back from Riverhead to Effingham Hall ? 
Was he thinking of that strange Portia ? 
Thatnight Mr. Effingham paced his room for more than an hour in moody thought , troubled and out of humor , it seemed , at something which had recently occurred . 
He kicked out of his way every obstacle , and betrayed other unmistakable evidences of ill-humor . 
At last , this annoyed state of mind took to itself words and he muttered : `` An actress , forsooth , to so treat a gentleman ! 
continued Mr. Effingham , thoughtfully , forgetting for a moment his indignation , and returning in thought to the theatre . 
But how did she receive my high compliment , '' he said , returning to his grievances , `` how did that respectful address , ` You are a great actress , ' affect her ? 
said Mr. Effingham , with unusual vehemence , `` I 'll make her repent it , and she shall suffer for causing me this annoyance . 
It is ridiculous , pitiable , silly : I , Mr. Champ Effingham , of Effingham Hall , to annoy myself about a common actress -- to be treated with contemptuous indifference by a woman of her grade ! '' 
And Mr. Champ Effingham , of Effingham Hall , sent an unfortunate cricket which stood in his path , flying across the room . 
`` I was charmed with it , '' said Mr. Effingham , `` all but Portiaacted their parts excellently , I thought . '' 
Mr. Effingham nodded . 
`` Well , '' said Mr. Effingham , `` tastes proverbially differ . 
`` As courteously as a subject could a queen , and got snubbed last night for my pains , '' said Mr. Effingham , with a bad affectation of indifference . 
The squire laughed , which caused Mr. Effingham to frown . 
`` Most insulting treatment , '' he said . 
`` Well , sir , '' said Mr. Effingham , `` I am sorry to find we disagree . 
he added , looking through the window , `` there 's the parson come over to dine . '' 
Mr. Effingham was glad to be thus relieved from the dilemma into which he had fallen , and he greeted the parson with a bow , due to him as deliverer . 
said Mr. Effingham , lounging in an easy chair , and drawling out his words . 
said Mr. Effingham , with indignant disdain , which expression did not escape Mr. Tag . 
`` Then , reverend sir , '' said Mr. Effingham , with insulting carelessness , `` I beg leave to inform you , that you know nothing about acting . 
His feelings , while this storm of words was being poured out on his devoted head , might have been compared to those of a man whose eyes are dazzled and his ears deafened by lightning and thunders issuing from a cloudless sky . 
He could muster no reply -- words failed him . 
He essayed once or twice to muster some appropriate indignation , but failed lamentably . 
The worthy gentleman was accustomed to bully -- as we now say -- others , not to be bullied ; and Mr. Effingham having `` stolen his art , '' that art now failed him . 
Mr. Effingham betrayed some slight embarrassment , upon finding that his enthusiastic tribute to Miss Hallam had thus been overheard , by one to whom he had spoken of her so disparagingly . 
This was very adroit in Mr. Effingham , as it diverted attention from himself to the views of the parson . 
`` I did nothing of the sort , your worship , '' said the crest-fallen parson , `` I only expressed some dissatisfaction with a portion of her acting : -- for which crime , Mr. Effingham has been for some minutes pouring out upon my head the vials of wrath . '' 
`` Well , let us say no more , '' returned Mr. Effingham , subsiding into indifference again ; `` I 'm tired of the subject , and will no longer afflict your reverence . 
Bring me some Jamaica , '' he added , to a servant who was passing through the hall : then to the parson , `` we 'll bury all differences in a flagon , '' he said , `` I 'm as thirsty as a fish . '' 
The parson brightened up , and , when he had emptied a fair cup of excellent Jamaica , was ready to forgive Mr. Effingham and all the world -- even think well of Portia.In p520-070 due time , that is to say , about noon , dinner was announced and discussed honestly by all , except Mr. Effingham . 
That gentleman soon rose and ordered his horse , announcing his intention of riding to Williamsburg , where he would probably spend the night . 
`` Do n't sit up for me , Alethea , '' he added , with a yawn . 
Mr. Effingham nodded indifferently , and sauntered from the room . 
The `` Raleigh Tavern '' in Williamsburg had been selected for a residence by Mr. Hallam and his company of comedians , chiefly on the ground that there was no other hostelry of any size in the good city at the period : and before the Raleigh Mr. Effingham drew rein . 
A negro took his horse , and , entering the broad doorway , the young man found himself opposite to the manager himself . 
So far from displaying any ill-humor at these cavalier words , the red-faced manager bowed as low as the landlord , and expressed his perfect willingness to drink with Mr. Effingham ; which , judging from his voice and appearance , he had performed in company with himself a number of times already . 
He marched up , accordingly , to the sideboard -- in those simple times the bottles were set out freely without any obstructing `` bar '' -- and pouring out an abundant supply of the heady rum , swallowed it at a gulp . 
Mr. Effingham drank his own more leisurely , talking about the performance on the preceding night . 
asked Mr. Effingham . 
-- Send up , and say that Mr. Effingham wishes to see her . '' 
Mr. Effingham followed the fat manager , and a flight of stairs brought them to a door , which Hallam knocked at , and a voice bidding him come in , he threw it open . 
She is as quick as lightning , Mr. Effingham , '' added the manager , discussing the young girl 's talents in her hearing without a thought of any indelicacy in such a proceeding , `` and when she catches hold of a rôle it 's done . '' 
`` Come , now , talk with Mr. Effingham for a quarter of an hour , since he is an acquaintance , '' continued the manager , smiling , `` in that time you will lose nothing . '' 
Before Mr. Effingham 's bold and careless glance , Beatrice 's eyes did not lower for an instant . 
`` Well , Mr. Effingham , '' she said , at length , quite calmly , `` what would you have ? '' 
`` Simply , a little conversation with you , my charming Beatrice , '' said Mr. Effingham , carelessly . 
`` Now , see the difference of opinion , '' said Mr. Effingham , smoothing his ruffles , daintily , `` I think that nothing could be more just . 
The young girl seemed to be somewhat irritated by the disdainful expression of Mr. Effingham 's voice . 
`` Mr. Effingham , '' she said , `` be pleased not to treat me like your servant . 
`` Mr. Effingham , '' said the young woman , rising , and speaking in a tone of perfect calmness , `` I quarrel neither with you nor any one ; above all , I do not presume to criticise your habits , except when those habits , as in the present instance , concern myself . '' 
repeated Mr. Effingham , with a laugh , `` how , pray ? '' 
said Mr. Effingham , laughing , `` I see what you mean by that scornful look . 
Mr. Effingham received this exhibition of hauteur with careless nonchalance , and picking up the volume which the young girl had laid down on his entrance , said : `` You act Juliet to-night ? '' 
`` I beg , now , '' continued Mr. Effingham , arranging one of his ambrosial drop-curls daintily upon his cheek , `` I beg you will not put any of that ferocious feeling you now exhibit into Juliet . 
`` That 's right , '' replied Mr. Effingham , indifferently ; `` be subdued , quiet , but intense , and all that . 
added Mr. Effingham , betraying some irritation . 
These words were uttered with so much coldness , that Mr. Effingham 's amour proprewas deeply wounded . 
He began to get angry . 
`` You are really a very amiable young lady , '' he said . 
`` And you receive me , '' continued Mr. Effingham , taking no notice of the interruption , `` as if I were a common clodhopper , instead of a gentleman , paying you a friendly visit . '' 
said Mr. Effingham , bitterly ; `` really , I shall become jealous . '' 
This calmness seemed to enrage Mr. Effingham not a little , and he put on his cocked hat with a flirt of irritation . 
`` Very well , '' he said ; `` that means that you are weary of me -- I am not good enough for Miss Hallam -- she is too immaculate for me . '' 
Mr. Effingham swung his short sword round angrily , and without further words went hurriedly out of the room . 
He brushed by Mr. Hallam , who was talking with Shylock , and , mounting his horse , galloped from the town towards the Hall . 
You should not complain of these visits , which are customary , and not strange , when you are acquainted -- as you are with Mr. Effingham , he says . 
Outof Williamsburg -- into the forest -- through the forest -- and so into the open highway sped Mr. Effingham , as if an avenging Nemesis were behind him , and nothing but the headlong speed he was pushing his noble bay to , could preserve him from the clutches of the pursuer . 
He made furious gestures , uttered more furious words . 
Mr. Hamilton rode in front of the glittering cortège , and became aware of Mr. Effingham 's presence , by having his horse nearly driven from beneath him . 
`` It 's Effingham , racing for life ! '' 
`` Excuse me , '' said Mr. Effingham , regaining a portion of his habitual calmness , `` but the fact is , Hamilton , I am angry enough to gallop to the devil , whom you have twice apostrophized so emphatically . '' 
Mr. Effingham hesitated , but at last , overcome with rage , said : `` That young actress has been assuming her airs towards me , and has made me as you find me . 
And Mr. Effingham looked as if he believed what he said : his face was flushed , and he looked gloomy . 
said Mr. Effingham , indignantly , `` why , an insult ! 
said Mr. Effingham . 
`` She shall repent it , '' blurted out Mr. Effingham , `` the insulting girl ! 
`` Come , my dear Effingham , do n't be angry . 
And , leaving the fox-hunters , Mr. Effingham rode on toward the Hall . 
A quarter of a mile from the house he met Parson Tag , jogging on his cob from the Hall homeward , with broad-brimmed hat , and knees and elbows painfully angular . 
`` Because I was absent , '' said Mr. Effingham coldly . 
Mr. Effingham 's irritation and ill-humor must plead his excuse for this irreverent speech . 
`` Be pleased to speak respectfully of Miss Hallam , sir , '' said Mr. Effingham , threateningly , `` when you address me on the subject of her character . 
And Mr. Effingham rode on as furiously as before , without reflecting for an instant on the strange inconsistency of his conduct . 
Might not a small modicum of self-knowledge have explained to him the truth of the matter ? 
But he was blinded by those dazzling eyes , and saw no inconsistency in his words . 
Tenminutes ' ride brought him to Effingham Hall , and , throwing his bridle to a negro who ran forward to take it , he entered the hall . 
Supper was soon served , and Mr. Effingham was plied with questions as to his abrupt return , and moody state of mind . 
After supper Mr. Effingham sat down moodily , resting his feet on the huge grim-headed andirons , which shone brightly in the cheerful light thrown out by some blazing splinters , for the October evenings were becoming chilly . 
Miss Alethea , who sat sewing busily , after pouring out tea , endeavored in vain to extract a word from him . 
Little Kate , who sat in the corner near Mr. Effingham , on her own little cricket , paused in the midst of her work -- Carlo was going on bravely now -- to ask cousin Champ what made him feel bad , and was he sick ? 
The child was Mr. Effingham 's favorite , and he was always ready to play with her ; but on the present occasion he replied that he was not sick , and did not wish to be annoyed . 
I am angry with nobody , '' said Mr. Effingham , with some impatience , but more softly than before . 
Kate , encouraged by these words , laid Carlo down , and pouring some perfume from a bottle into her hand , stole up to Mr. Effingham , and said : `` Oh , I know you 've got a headache , cousin Champ ! 
He would have refused , but the little face was so tender , and the small hand so soft , that he could not . 
`` I have no headache , Katy , '' he said , `` I am only annoyed -- no , I believe I am not even annoyed . '' 
And rising abruptly , he said to a servant : `` Order my horse ! '' 
Mr. Effingham either did not hear this question , or deigned to take no notice of it : a circumstance which caused Miss Alethea to toss her head , and preserve a dignified silence . 
he said , as the servant re-entered . 
Kate stole up and took his hand . 
Kate tip-toed , and whispered in his ear : `` I wo n't like cousin Clare , if she treats you badly . '' 
Then , seeing that the little face looked hurt and mortified , he added gloomily : `` I am not treated badly by any one , Kate : you attach too much importance to my moods . 
Mr. Effingham treated this apostrophe to the unknown personage , who finds himself called upon to express his sentiments on such astounding occasions , with profound disregard , and went out into the night . 
The audience greeted her with enthusiastic applause , and Mr. Effingham saw that the favorable impression she had made on the previous night had now been much heightened . 
In truth , nothing could be more splendid than her countenance , as she hastened to meet the nurse , bringing her news of her lover : and Mr. Effingham , spite of his agitation and gloom , could not help hanging on her words and glances , drinking in the music of her rare and wonderful voice with greedy ears . 
A bitter smile distorted his features , however ; for with every burst of applause -- and no opportunity was allowed by the audience to escape them -- he felt more and more how insignificant he was to this young girl , applauded , caressed , overwhelmed with the intoxicating praise lavished on her from a thousand hands -- the incense ascending in her honor there before him . 
he said , bitterly ; `` every body praises her -- all are delighted -- those fools , there , are devouring her with their eyes , and think her an angel of genius and beauty from the skies . 
And with passionate anger Mr. Effingham grasped his breast , and dug his nails into the flesh , until they were stained with blood . 
The rich lace ruffle , rumpled and torn , revealed in its crimson stain the excess of his rage . 
He made no reply to the laughing words addressed to him by his companions , and taking up a position almost behind the scenes , arrested Beatrice in her passage as she went out . 
he said , abruptly . 
`` Stop , '' said Mr. Effingham , with a sneering laugh , `` you are really too much in a hurry . '' 
he said , clasping her arm . 
`` Mr. Effingham , '' said Beatrice , raising her head with cold dignity , `` I despise no one . 
The young girl looked strangely at him . 
cried the young girl , starting back in horror , `` how could you -- '' `` A mere scratch , madam , '' said Mr. Effingham , bitterly , `` and I used a mere figure of speech in saying that your hand inflicted it . 
`` Mr. Effingham , you frighten me . 
Release my sleeve , sir , '' she said , coldly and firmly , again ; and leaving him , she issued forth upon the stage , and with a voice as firm and steady as ever -- so wonderful was her self-control -- continued her character . 
As she passed out after the scene , Mr. Effingham in vain attempted to address her . 
Failing in this , he ground his teeth , and clutching a second time the unfortunate lace at his bosom , tore it into shreds . 
He turned , and almost rushed from the theatre . 
As he brushed through the box , he heard a little cry of astonishment , and a soft voice full of surprise said , `` Mr. Effingham ! '' 
He turned , and his eyes met those of Clare , fixed on him with trouble and astonishment . 
He bowed , said hurriedly something about regretting the necessity of his departure , and left the theatre just as the audience greeted the re-entrance of Beatrice with a burst of applause . 
He hastened to the `` Raleigh , '' mounted his horse , and fled out into the dark night like a phantom , full of rage and despair , that joyous applause still ringing in his ears . 
Thus far , the author of the MS. , in that rhetorical and enthusiastic style which every where characterizes his works . 
Mr. Effingham would not be there , with his insulting advances , his intolerable drawl , his irritating airs of superiority and patronage . 
Mr. Effingham would not believe the account . '' 
Do n't speak of Mr. Effingham ; he looked at me so , last night , with his eyes on fire , and his frill crumpled and torn -- I thought it was stained with blood . '' 
`` He became angry with me for not attending to him on the stage , in the last act , and clutched his breast with his nails . 
Oh , do n't speak of him , '' she added , growing gloomy , `` I do not like that man . '' 
He rose , and seeming to banish with an effort the thoughts which preoccupied his mind , said , in a grave and serious voice : `` I confess , Miss Hallam , that your acting was faultless , as far as I could judge of it ; and my father has not misunderstood my opinion of Mr. Effingham 's very unworthy conduct toward yourself . 
`` I know you would , Charley , '' said the old man proudly , `` you 'd throw your life away for a child : and I rather think Mr. Effingham would a had a hard time , if you had met after the play ! '' 
The young man 's voice , ordinarily grave and simple , changed , as he uttered these words : and his flushed face positively overawed the fat manager , who , feeling his own character of pater familiasindirectly called in question , was about to speak , and ask Beatrice the particulars of Mr. Effingham 's conduct . 
His tone was so firm and proud -- his eye so clear and full of disdain -- his attitude so erect and noble , as he uttered these words , that the wide apartment , with its fishing-nets , and rough chairs and tables , seemed to grow brilliant and imposing -- mind penetrating matter , and transforming it to its own likeness . 
Onthe next morning , just as Beatrice was binding up her hair before the single mirror of her small sitting-room , she heard a knock at the door , and answering , `` Come in , '' she saw through the open door Mr. Champ Effingham , who entered the apartment with a smile . 
he said , with a pleased air , too elaborate indeed not to be somewhat affected ; `` how is your ladyship to-day ? '' 
`` For which reason , '' replied Mr. Effingham , playing with his ruffle , and sitting down languidly , `` you receive me very ill . '' 
said Mr. Effingham , first smoothing the feather in his cocked hat , then negligently playing with the bright hilt of his short sword ; `` ah , you are thinking about my naughty behavior in the theatre the other evening . '' 
cried Mr. Effingham , with a sudden pallor , and a flash of the eye , which revealed the volcano beneath his affected carelessness . 
A flush of hatred passed over Mr. Effingham 's brow , and he said , with a sneer : `` Ah , your cavalier ! 
Beatrice felt her heart throb with anger , and a scornful answer arose to her lips : but she repressed these evidences of feeling , and said coldly : `` Mr. Effingham , I will not exchange another word with you , if I am to be insulted thus . 
Mr. Effingham made a powerful effort over himself , and burst into a laugh which was painful to hear . 
`` Well , well , '' he said , in a voice which he in vain endeavored to render careless and easy , `` we wo n't quarrel about the Chevalier Waters . 
`` Just so , '' continued Mr. Effingham , bursting into laughter ; `` my chère amie , you know -- one of the most beautiful , highborn , and wealthy young girls in the colony ; pretty , fair hair , blue eyes , and all that -- just opposed to your style . 
`` Mr. Effingham , you seem to me to be laboring under some bitter emotion ; you shock me . 
`` You are right , '' said Mr. Effingham , losing his forced gayety , `` I am carried away by my infatuation -- I love you . '' 
he said , gloomily ; `` do n't let us mince matters . '' 
Mr. Effingham rose with a threatening gesture ; but , collecting himself , sat down again . 
`` Ah , madam , '' he said , with gloomy bitterness ; `` you are very prudish : you hate me -- Mr. Charles Waters takes you in his arms -- I can not approach you . '' 
The young girl looked so lovely at that moment -- her beautiful eyes flashed such vivid lightning -- her rosy face was so eloquent with indignation , that Mr. Effingham found words fail him -- lost in , overwhelmed as he was by , her splendid and fiery beauty . 
`` You are a strange actress , '' he said at length , in a low , deep-toned voice , `` and certainly unlike any other I have ever seen . 
This is not an invitation , for I say again , there can not and must not be any thing in common between an actress , like myself , and Mr. Effingham . 
Mr. Effingham stood looking at the young woman in silence , with an expression upon his countenance which she could not understand . 
At last he said , with a pale lip , and very abruptly : `` Are you acting ? '' 
`` Then you are a prodigy of truth and nobleness , '' he said , with a lightning-like glance . 
he said , gloomily . 
he said . 
And there was so much haughtiness in his tone that her cheek flushed . 
`` Mr. Effingham , you really seem to have grown mad : let our interview end here . '' 
`` Mr. Effingham , dismiss all thought of me . 
He gazed at her for a moment in silence , and then , putting his hat on , left the room , full of gloomy rage , but with a sneering lip . 
Justas Mr. Champ Effingham left Williamsburg , by the western road -- his splendid animal careering at full gallop in obedience to his rider 's spur -- a young man entered the town from the south on foot , and directed his steps toward the Raleigh Tavern . 
He soon reached the long platform in front of the inn , and entered the ordinary . 
He was about to address some question to the portly landlord , when turning his eyes to the opposite side of the room , he saw seated in one of the large leathern chairs , a man whose face seemed to excite some slumbering thought in his mind , for he passed his hand over his brow , and seemed to question his memory . 
`` I am sure they do not think so of you , '' he said ; `` and though Mr. Effingham has behaved toward you in a manner most unworthy of an honorable man , I can not think he meant a deliberate insult to a young girl . 
said Beatrice , with the same cloud upon her face , which had warned the manager upon the river , `` do not let us speak of Mr. Effingham -- he does not treat me as a gentleman should treat all persons , however much beneath him . 
I feel that I am not beneath him , and I can forget the suffering he causes me . 
I wo n't talk of him any more . 
This was the result with my respected ancestor , Mr. Champ Effingham . 
True , he declared often and believed , that he needed strong emotion -- novelty -- passion , for his existence ; but this was a mistake . 
His passions were naturally strong enough , and emotion was dangerous to himself and others . 
The quiet life of his native country had allowed these passions to sleep for a long time , and he fancied that he had none . 
He was , as I have already declared , very greatly mistaken . 
`` The first view of young Miss Hallam had stirred up a hurly-burly in his breast ; not because she was so much more beautiful than Miss Clare Lee , for whom , as the reader of these pages has perceived , my respected ancestor had begun to have something more than a friendly regard : -- not that she was one of those fiery phenomena , who , like Cleopatra or Aspasia , dazzle the eyes , and set the brain and heart on fire . 
The effect produced upon Mr. Effingham by the young woman was attributable to the novelty and freshness of her character , and the state of his own mind , ripe for some great passion , and dissatisfied with the tranquil affection of the little beauty at Riverhead . 
`` These few words will explain what I mean when I add that Mr. Effingham was not , properly speaking , in love with Miss Hallam . 
He experienced for her a violent , passionate emotion , which had ripened in a few days to full size and vigor , and though many persons may say -- if , indeed many read these pages -- that his love was ` love at first sight , ' and genuine , still I must be permitted to doubt it ; and I hope to show conclusively , before ending this narrative , that those views I have stated are correct . 
Miss Hallam declined being swallowed ; if I may be permitted to make a very poor witticism ; she was offended , and I think very justly , at the manner in which Mr. Effingham uniformly addressed her , and she did not take the trouble to conceal her feelings . 
She showed him plainly that she did not desire him to visit her , and the consequence was a vast increase of Mr. Effingham 's passion . 
We have seen how inconsistently this violent emotion led him to speak and behave : -- now praising , then scoffing at the object of his passion : at one time almost cursing her , as he said , then blessing her , and declaring that she was a noble , high-souled girl . 
The last interview he had with Miss Hallam , at which the reader has been present , was the capstone to all these passionate interviews ; and the state of Mr. Effingham 's mind may very correctly be inferred from his mingled mockery and earnestness , sincerity and sarcasm in Miss Hallam 's presence . 
After leaving her he left Williamsburg -- just when Mr. Waters entered it as we know -- and launched himself , like a flash of lightning , toward the Hall , overwhelmed with rage and despair . '' 
Mr. Champ Effingham soon reached Effingham Hall , and , throwing his bridle loose , hurried to his room . 
She worded these questions in such a manner , that the impression left upon all minds , was to the effect that Mr. Champ Effingham was a naughty boy , who had been behaving badly , and deserved a scolding . 
The reader will no doubt imagine , without any explanation upon our part , the manner in which Mr. Effingham received these observations . 
He looked at Miss Alethea , as a mastiff does at a lapdog who is worrying him , and went on with his breakfast . 
Miss Alethea was a lady of excellent sense , and did not meddle with him any more during the whole day . 
Mr. Effingham spent the day in gloomy thought -- varying this monotonous amusement , by hurling from his path every thing which stood in his way . 
Orange , Miss Alethea 's lapdog , chanced to obstruct his steps , as he was passing through the hall , and this unfortunate scion of a royal race , found himself kicked twenty feet across the passage , into the embraces of an astonished tortoise-shell cat , his inveterate enemy . 
Orange was so completely astounded , and overawed by this summary treatment on the enemy 's part , that he did not utter so much as a single whine . 
He was cowed . 
Mr. Effingham spent several days in this manner , scarcely eating any thing , but sitting long after dinner , drinking claret . 
He saw with dumb astonishment that Mr. Effingham 's hair had remained unpowdered for a whole week , and that his ruffle was torn regularly every evening . 
One morning , Mr. Effingham was observed to sit with his head bent down for more than an hour , in gloomy thought ; at the end of that time , he rose and ordered his horse . 
Mounting , he directed his way , with a strange expression on his lips , toward Riverhead . 
At the stream , which ran across the road , a quarter of a mile from the house , his new cocked-hat , with its magnificent feather , blew off into the water , and was all muddied and draggled ; and when , after picking it up , he again mounted , he found that his horse had by some means become suddenly lame . 
`` Well , '' he said , bitterly , `` fate is against my seeing her . 
And returning to the Hall , he shut himself up in his room , and did not issue forth again until evening . 
It was the seventh day after the interview with Beatrice Hallam ; but it brought him no rest from his harassing and gloomy thoughts . 
He was growing reckless ; burnt up by his complicated emotions , he began to regard things in a mysterious and fateful light . 
Was this young woman to be his curse , appointed by Heaven to ruin him here in this world , for some dreadful sin he had committed ? 
He felt no penitence , shrank not , but with the same mocking , reckless smile , entered the supper-room , where Miss Alethea was preparing chocolate . 
He sat down in moody silence , but was not long left to himself . 
Mr. Effingham 's face flushed , and he turned with an irritated look toward Miss Alethea , which that lady understood perfectly . 
`` It is no insult , '' said Mr. Effingham , gloomily , `` and I have not seen Miss Clare Lee for a moment since the play , more than a week ago . 
Mr. Effingham 's rage on hearing this intelligence , may be better conceived than described . 
Clare Lee to know of his infatuation ! 
to hear of his acquaintance with Beatrice Hallam ! 
to be told of his violent , infatuated conduct ! 
And that impudent fellow who had dared to meddle with his affairs ! 
Mr. Effingham ground his teeth , and grasped his sword-hilt with ominous meaning . 
This , then , was what he was coming to be ; the gossip of the country side . 
Clare Lee , even , was one of the laughers , and pitied him , no doubt , if she did not despise him . 
Mr. Effingham 's lip curled , and his brow contracted ; then his face resumed its gloomy look again , and he said : `` Woe to those who busy themselves with me . 
Miss Alethea , though somewhat awed by his manner , replied , that she did not consider herself called upon to cross-examine Clare . 
Mr. Effingham said , rudely . 
said Mr. Effingham , with a flash of the eye . 
Mr. Effingham bit his lip until it bled . 
Mr. Effingham rose and said to a servant who was going out -- `` Pack my portmanteau , and order my horse . '' 
And without further words he left the room , and was seen by that lady no more . 
She half regretted her vehemence , for she was a woman of excellent heart at bottom , but her strong religious feelings , made her intolerant of conduct like that attributed to Mr. Effingham ; and the result of an argument held with her conscience , was , that she had not said a word too much . 
Those words had put the capstone upon Mr. Effingham 's feelings , and he went to his room , pale , and with a sueer upon his lip , which boded no good . 
Thenceforth he was perfectly reckless . 
Onthe next morning Mr. Champ Effingham made his appearance in Williamsburg , accompanied by a mounted servant , and the two horsemen drew up before the door of the Raleigh Tavern . 
The portly landlord came forth , cap in hand , to welcome him . 
`` Well , Master Boniface , '' said Mr. Effingham , with elegant pleasantry , `` is the room my servant engaged -- No. 6 -- ready ? '' 
`` Carry up my portmanteau , '' said Mr. Effingham to the negro , who had brought that article behind him , `` and then return . 
`` No , Massa Champ , '' said Tom , with the grin of intelligence peculiar to his race , `` not by no means , sir . '' 
Having given this caution , and made this unmistakable promise , which the negro received with a broader grin , as he turned away , Mr. Effingham lounged into the ordinary . 
he asked , sitting down carelessly . 
`` Bring me a cup , '' said Mr. Effingham ; `` or no , I 'll have some claret . '' 
The landlord hastened to bring the wine , and placed the bottle at Mr. Effingham 's elbow . 
Mr. Effingham then betook himself to the agreeable employment of sipping his claret , one leg being thrown carelessly over the arm of his leather-bottomed chair : and when tired of this monotony , he varied it by dipping a cracker in his wine-glass , and throwing his leg over the other arm . 
At his side dangled the finest of his short swords , and , altogether , Mr. Champ Effingham seemed , to judge from his `` outward accoutrement , '' the very pet of fortune . 
His manner was not unsuited to his dress : it was , if possible , more nonchalant and indifferent than ever ; but any one who would have taken the trouble to scan the handsome face closely , would have perceived a dark shadow under the eyes , which betokened sleepless nights , and a reckless , mocking expression upon the lips , very much at variance with the petit maitreairs assumed by the young gentleman . 
Half an hour passed , and Mr. Effingham was visibly becoming very impatient , when the entrance of the manager caused him to lay down the `` stupid gazette '' he had been reading and maligning for the last fifteen minutes . 
there you are at last , Hallam , '' he said , `` what the devil kept you so long ? '' 
`` You had better let Congreve alone , and stick to Shakespeare , '' said Mr. Effingham , `` he wo n't take here among these barbarous Virginians . 
said Mr. Effingham . 
`` Very excellent indeed , sir , '' said Hallam , smacking his lips . 
Now , on the other side -- I rather flatter myself your house would be filled , when Champ Effingham , Esq. , was announced in some thrilling and overwhelming part . 
Here was the exciting cause : Beatrice was the engine which had produced this extraordinary convulsion in the heart of Mr. Effingham . 
And with the thought in his mind , the course he ought to pursue became plainer . 
Mr. Effingham was desperately enamored of her -- his family no doubt scoffed at the connection -- he came to join the company -- time would do the rest ; and , once married , a few dramatic scenes of father 's weeping and relenting -- daughter-in-law kneeling in tears -- son promising to be immaculate in future , would make all well again . 
So , when Mr. Effingham had repeated his disdainful question , `` Would he not make a better companion for Beatrice , in every thing , than that stupid fellow , Pugsby ? '' 
Mr. Manager Hallam melted from his doubtful state of mind into increasing conviction , and said , that `` He really felt -- hum -- he must certainly acknowledge -- hum -- Pugsby was certainly not what he had been ; and , if Mr. Effingham was bent on joining them , he did not feel himself at liberty to refuse his most flattering proposal . 
As the great Congreve had said to him , on one occasion , such common players as himself could not feel too much flattered when gentlemen condescended to associate with them on terms of equality ; and nothing was more reasonable . 
He could not refuse Mr. Effingham , whom he was proud to call his friend ; he had many such distinguished friends ; among the most so , the great Congreve . 
Therefore , if Mr. Effingham was still of the same mind , he would be most proud , most flattered to have him . 
He would find them a plain , honest set ; and the only drawback was on the delicate subject of his remuneration . 
For , as to salary , he feared -- '' `` Curse the salary ! '' 
said Mr. Effingham , with disdainful carelessness -- he had listened to the above tirade with perfect indifference -- `` I do n't want your money , Hallam . 
Go , and put ` Champ Effingham , Esq. , ' on your roll of comedians . '' 
And Champ Effingham , Esq. , rising from his seat , went out , and stood at the door of the Raleigh , yawning and frowning , and scowling on such members of that insipid good society as passed in their coaches . 
He did not take the trouble to return the nods of the gentlemen , or the smiles of the ladies . 
He felt perfectly reckless , and cared , at that moment , for no human being on earth . 
Yes , there was one whom he loved and hated , blessed and cursed ; and she passed him , coming from the theatre , with a quick step , and an averted face . 
Beatrice hurried up to her room , and Mr. Effingham re-entered , and began again to converse again with the manager , over a second bottle of claret . 
On the day after Mr. Effingham 's instalment at the Raleigh , Charles Waters visited Williamsburg again . 
Mr. Effingham seems to be her very good friend . '' 
`` Effingham ! '' 
`` Yes , he has been an inmate of this tavern for two or three days -- do n't mistake and enter his room for mine . '' 
Justas Charles Waters left the door of the inn , and while the stranger was still looking after him , with a curious expression upon his finely-moulded lips , the door of No. 7 opened , and Mr. Champ Effingham issued from it . 
Mr. Effingham looked every inch the gentleman and courtier . 
The drop curls of his powdered peruke reposed ambrosially on his clear pale cheek , his lace ruffles at bosom and wrist were of spotless purity , his surcoat of cut velvet , with its chased gold buttons , just lifted up the point of his richly ornamented sword , and his waistcoat , silk stockings , cocked-hat , and jewelled hands , completed the vivid and perfect contrast between himself and the rude-looking , coarsely clad stranger . 
The man in the red cloak having apparently satisfied his curiosity , made a slight and very awkward bow , which Mr. Effingham returned with negligent carelessness , and then re-entered his chamber , with a smile on his grim features . 
Mr. Effingham descended . 
The reader will recollect that he had been at the tavern now for some days : -- the manager had regularly enrolled him as a member of the `` Virginia Company of Comedians , '' and availing himself of the privileges of his membership , Mr. Effingham had met Beatrice daily , in the theatre , in the tavern , every where . 
He was no longer a chance visitor , an occasional torment to be borne with , and endured patiently , in consideration of his going away soon ; he was now her shadow , and in the young girl 's own words , he `` drove away all the sunshine from her life . '' 
At rehearsal she had seen daily his reckless and mocking smile , glittering and gloomy , follow her every movement -- at the inn , when he condescended to appear at the common table , she had been transfixed by his burning glances -- in all places and at all times he had obtruded himself with his ironical and yet sombre smile ; a smile which seemed to say audibly , `` You defied me , scorned me , thought yourself more than a match for me , and I have foiled you and conquered you , by superior will and reckless carelessness . '' 
Whether Mr. Manager Hallam was conscious of Beatrice 's unhappiness -- of Mr. Effingham 's treatment of his daughter -- we are not able to say . 
At least , he took no notice of it , and was always ready to echo the young man 's jests , and drink with him as long , and as deeply as he desired . 
`` At the Hall the storm was rising , and ere long it was destined to fall upon the devoted head of Mr. Effingham . 
Miss Alethea had deeply regretted her violence , and earnestly prayed for him , and that he might return to them again . 
She saw too late that her injudicious words had driven him away , and this she confessed to her father , with tears ; but that bluff gentleman had pish 'd and pshaw 'd , and told her that she was too soft-hearted , and that she was not to blame -- he would see to the matter ! 
The rest of the household soon found out the dreadful fact that Mr. Champ Effingham had abandoned his home for the young actress , and the very negroes , following the wont of Africans in all years , discussed and commented on `` Master Champ 's '' wild conduct . 
She loved Mr. Champ Effingham dearly -- much more fondly , I am compelled to add , than my respected ancestor deserved -- and wept for him , and every night and morning joined her hands together and asked God to bless him , wetting the pillow all the time with her tears . 
As I have said , this was by no means the spirit of the squire : he was indignant , he felt outraged , he knew now all about the matter , and felt excessive dissatisfaction at Mr. Effingham 's conduct , as he called it . 
It never occurred to him that his own youthful career had been by no means immaculate , and without regard to Mr. Champ 's peculiarities of mental organization , he determined to bring the rebel to subjection . '' 
Thus far , the MS. from which these events were drawn ; the extract may serve to explain the appearance of a mounted servant at the door of the Raleigh , where Mr. Effingham descended , after his meeting with the stranger . 
It was Tom , who , with many smiles , presented to his master a missive directed , in a large , firm hand : `` To Mr. Champ Effingham , at the Raleigh Tavern , Williamsburg . '' 
Mr. Effingham frowned , tore open the letter , and read it , with a flush upon his brow , which froze the smiles of the shining African . 
a common actress for my daughter -- the wife of the representative of the house of Effingham , after my death . 
Mr. Champ Effingham read this letter with those manifestations of wrath and indignation which we have described , and as we have said , hurried to his apartment , bidding the servant wait . 
Mr. Effingham read this note over , folded it , sealed it deliberately , stamping the wax with his coat of arms , and summoning a servant , ordered him to deliver it to the negro at the door . 
She did not move when Mr. Effingham entered , and a second glance proved to him that she was asleep . 
For a moment , Mr. Effingham gazed at the beautiful head bent down , the forehead moist with the dews of sleep , the small hand hanging down , from which the volume of Shakspeare , she had been reading , had fallen to the floor . 
None of these things escaped him , and for a moment he paused , silent , motionless , his eyes becoming softer , his brow less gloomy . 
Mr. Effingham approached her . 
`` I am not well , sir , '' she said , resigning herself to her fate . 
Beatrice made no reply to these words , which Mr. Effingham uttered with careless indifference as he sat down . 
he added . 
Mr. Effingham picked the volume up with a yawn , and politely restored it to the young girl . 
`` By the by , '' he said , `` when shall we appear together ? '' 
continued Mr. Effingham , mimicking the frigid tones of the young girl 's voice ; `` the devil ! 
`` Then , marry me , '' said Mr. Effingham , with perfect coolness , `` I have half ruined myself for you . '' 
Beatrice looked at him fixedly . 
`` Your great pleasure in life is to scoff at me , Mr. Effingham , '' she said , calmly . 
said Mr. Effingham . 
Beatrice was again silent ; and Mr. Effingham burst into a harsh laugh . 
he said , `` you do n't reply , but I know very well what the expression of your ladyship 's face signifies . 
You mean , Madam Beatrice , that you would have very little domestic happiness as the wife of reprobate Mr. Champ Effingham ! 
`` Both exceedingly worldly and unamiable -- '' `` Mr. Effingham ! '' 
Mr. Effingham leaned back , and looked at her with a mocking smile . 
`` You are really exceedingly handsome , '' he said , `` and upon my word the gentlemen , and even the ladies of the colony , might show some cause for not liking you , and thinking it very naughty in me to come near you . 
Mr. Effingham 's laugh was the perfection of recklessness and scorn . 
he said , `` let us talk of business matters . 
`` Mr. Effingham ! '' 
This meaning was so plain , that Mr. Effingham burst into laughter , and said : `` Yes , Hallam ! 
And bowing , he went out . 
The scene which ensued between the manager and his daughter is not one of those which we take pleasure in describing . 
Hallam saw the means of attaching the young man to Beatrice for ever by this ball , for his appearance there with her would be regarded as his public defiance of all the powers of society : and this social prejudice , he felt convinced , was all which prevented Mr. Effingham from marrying Beatrice . 
It was necessary thus to overcome her scruples , and he did overcome them . 
Young , high-born , wealthy , heir to the estate of Effingham and representative of that stately house , all honors and pleasures were open to him , did he but sit down and wait quietly . 
The name of Effingham would die if he had to uphold it -- he would be stricken from the annals of his house -- nothing remaining of his name and life but a sad and shameful recollection ! 
`` But , Katy , '' said Mr. Effingham , turning away , `` this does not explain how you -- '' `` Oh ! 
`` Heaven sent you , Katy , '' said Mr. Effingham , pressing his tremulous lips to the child 's forehead . 
`` God knows what might have happened , '' he added , in a murmur . 
he said , hastily . 
And rising suddenly , he went to the open window , and hurled the pistol to the distance of fifty feet . 
Then returning , after seeing it fall into a pile of rubbish in the yard of the tavern , he took the child in his arms again , and leaned his weary head upon her shoulder . 
`` You do n't seem to me well , cousin Champ , '' said Kate , tenderly , and endeavoring with the tact of a grown woman , to come to the subject which she wished to reach , without offending Mr. Effingham . 
`` I ca n't make you cry , dear , '' said Mr. Effingham , with a fond look . 
`` You do n't seem to think that , cousin , '' said Kate , sighing , and looking wistfully at him , `` or you would not leave us so long . '' 
Mr. Effingham softly smoothed the bright head . 
`` I was much longer away , when I went to England , '' he said , `` and you did not write me a word to return , dear . 
Mr. Effingham was silent , but he unconsciously clasped the small hand lying on his own more tightly , as if some invisible and hostile force were pulling him the other way , and in the child lay his only hope of resistance . 
`` You ca n't think how your being away has made me feel -- indeed , you ca n't , '' continued the child , in a low voice , and glancing at his face with wistful , dewy eyes ; `` you know I never liked any body I loved to go away , and after papa , I love you better than any body in the world . 
Mr. Effingham rose , and going to his dressing-table , took the small volume from his portmanteau . 
`` Here Katy , '' he said , turning aside his head as he spoke , `` I have not time to read it now . '' 
`` No -- no -- not now , '' said Mr. Effingham , with a shadow on his face . 
Mr. Effingham strode up and down the apartment -- passed his hand wearily over his forehead , gazed wistfully at the child , and the book she held , and then away from her again . 
He stopped finally before the window , and looked out . 
Then he felt a little hand , warm and soft , take his own ; and turning round , the child was again in his arms , pressed to his heart . 
`` Katy , '' he said , with a troubled voice , `` I can not keep your Bible now -- I have not time to read it -- and some one coming in here might take it . '' 
Mr. Effingham 's face clouded . 
The thought had occurred to him that some one of the rude , jeering actors might touch it -- and at that moment he felt as if he would preserve it from such profanity at the hazard of his life . 
`` Keep it , dear , '' he added , tenderly , `` I will read it if I ever -- when , I mean , I come back to the Hall . 
The child put the volume into the pocket of her frock , with an expression of quiet , uncomplaining sorrow , which was very touching . 
`` I 'll promise to read it every day , when I get back , dear , '' said Mr. Effingham , `` now do n't feel badly . '' 
if you would only come back , '' she said , hiding her head in his bosom , and crying , `` Oh ! 
Mr. Effingham held the child upon his lap , overcome with gloomy and yet hopeful thoughts . 
She looked into his face , and saw the troubled expression . 
she said , in an earnest , pleading voice , `` indeed you are not well . 
He looked at her for some minutes in silence , and said : `` Katy , do you believe in guardian angels ? '' 
`` Yes : mamma is in heaven , and papa , '' she said . 
he continued , gazing on the tender face , `` a great city of pearls , and diamonds , and gold ? 
he said , thoughtfully . 
Mr. Effingham made no reply ; he only murmured to himself . 
`` No , no -- I believe not , '' said Mr. Effingham , `` I do n't know that reading the Bible would do me any good . 
I believe what that verse says already , dear , '' he added , looking with moist eyes at the child , `` and I meant that when I asked you about heaven ; ` Suffer little children to come unto me and forbid them not -- for of such is the kingdom of heaven . ' 
`` I am -- well , well , '' he said , suddenly checking himself : and he murmured , `` Why should I deprive myself of this child 's heart . '' 
`` No , no -- '' `` Let me read a little to you , please -- I know you 'll like -- '' `` No , no ; I 'm not fit to hear reading now , dear , '' he said , but more softly , and with less decision in his tone . 
The weary and storm-tossed soul listened to these simple words , and felt a strange emotion at his heart , as if that heart had been frozen , and was slowly melting . 
`` Yes , yes , '' murmured Mr. Effingham , covering his eyes . 
`` Yes , '' he murmured again . 
`` Then , '' said Kate , with an expression of entreaty , which lit up her tender little face , like a light from heaven , and putting her arm round his neck as she spoke -- `` then come and go back ! 
The little arm around his neck drew him toward the door ; the beseeching voice went to his heart , and melted all his pride , and hardness , and stubborn coldness ; the half jest he had uttered about his guardian angel , seemed to become a heavenly reality -- to be there in the person of that child , entreating him to go away with her . 
cried Kate , clinging closer and closer to him , and turning her moist , tender eyes upon his own ; `` come with me , cousin Champ -- come back with us -- oh ! 
Mr. Effingham hesitated , and was silent . 
It might have been imagined that he feared to leave the child -- to go beyond the reach of her voice , the brightness of her eyes . 
`` Well , well , '' he said , after a moment 's silence , `` whoever it is I will see him . 
Say I will be down immediately , '' he added , to the servant . 
Then stooping , and pressing his lips to the child 's forehead , he said , tenderly and softly : `` Stay till I return , Katy ; I will soon send this gentleman off , whoever he may be . 
Kate looked inexpressibly delighted , and this expression of joy seemed to touch and please Mr. Effingham extremely . 
He threw a last fond glance on the child , and saying again that he would be back in a moment , went out and closed the door . 
Shylock hesitated for a moment on the threshold , and exhibited a species of inane surprise , at finding a child , instead of his brother-comedian , Mr. Effingham , in the apartment . 
Why are you here , instead of that jolly minion of the moon , that lad of metal , hight Childe Effingham ? '' 
said Kate , with a trembling voice , and retreating as the leering tragedian approached her , `` Oh , sir , I am -- Mr. Effingham -- I mean , he is just gone , sir . '' 
`` Effingham ! 
-- Effingham -- always Effingham ! 
Kate misunderstood these half-audible words , and said : `` Did you ask if Effingham was our name , ma'am ? 
`` And you were in you -- in Mr. Effingham 's room -- were you , my child ? '' 
Then she said aloud : `` And so Mr. Effingham -- your cousin -- came to see the actress , and his family are displeased ? '' 
At the same moment it opened violently , and Mr. Effingham stood before them . 
Mr. Effingham looked from one to the other , to ask an explanation . 
he said . 
said Mr. Effingham , his brow flushing with haughty fire . 
Suddenly Mr. Effingham looked at the child 's hair still disordered and rumpled -- for the worthy Shylock , in pulling away her hat , had naturally dragged the well-brushed hair from its place . 
Mr. Effingham observed this at a glance , and said , with a flashing eye : `` Where is your hat , Kate ? '' 
I gave it to her , that is all ; and now , sir -- '' Mr. Effingham did not wait to hear the end of the sentence . 
His eye burned fiercely , and hurrying out with the child , he said , hastily : `` Come , Katy , let us go to the carriage : I must put you in : I ca n't go to-day to the Hall . 
Mr. Effingham 's teeth ground audibly , but before he could make a reply , a voice behind him , loud and familiar , said : `` Here 's your beauty 's hat -- where the devil are you going -- '' It was Shylock , who came along the passage behind , and turning , Mr. Effingham saw the child 's hat in his hand . 
A flash as of lightning blazed from the young man 's eye , and to abandon Kate 's hand , throw himself upon the leering worthy , clutch him by the throat , and hurl him headlong from the landing-place to the bottom of the stairs , was the agreeable employment of a single moment . 
But this did not satisfy Mr. Effingham 's rage ; and motioning the child to remain behind , he sprung down the steps , and arriving at the bottom just as Shylock , in a violent rage , rose up , he shouted wrathfully : `` Draw , you dog ! 
Having only frightened the child for fun , as that worthy said , afterwards , Mr. Effingham 's sudden attack upon him had taken him completely by surprise : and his blood had scarcely time to rise . 
Mr. Effingham , with insulting disdain , called after him that he should have an opportunity to right his wrongs at the sword 's point , though he might be excused from matching himself against such a cowardly villain ; and so this little interlude ended . 
Kate , sobbing and agitated , had put on her little hat , and now , with Mr. Effingham 's hand in her own , left the inn . 
Mr. Effingham , with a short and curt greeting to Will , went on to the place where the carriage stood , and placed the child in it . 
Mr. Effingham was going away in silence , after pressing the child 's hand , when , sobbing , she said : `` Oh , wo n't you kiss me ? 
Mr. Effingham bent over toward her , but , suddenly resuming his erect attitude , said , gloomily : `` No , no , Katy ; I can not kiss you . 
`` Good , '' he said , in the same quiet , gloomy voice ; `` I will love you dearly as long as I live , but I can see you no more . 
Good-bye , '' and , turning away , he muttered , `` The die is cast ! '' 
Letus now endeavor to explain why Mr. Effingham acted so strangely toward the child , refusing to kiss her at parting , and exhibiting that singular solicitude about her Bible 's safety , in the little pocket . 
The explanation of these matters will be found in that interview with the nameless gentleman , whom Mr. Effingham left Kate to go and see . 
When the young man descended , he saw , seated in the ordinary , waiting for him , his friend , Jack Hamilton , the fox-hunter . 
Mr. Effingham greeted him with unusual cordiality , and his languid , indifferent , petit maîtremanner seemed to have entirely disappeared -- at least , this was the observation made by his friend . 
`` I would -- but -- really -- '' And Mr. Effingham thought of Kate . 
And , putting his arm through Mr. Effingham 's , the fox-hunter led him away . 
`` Well , they had the right to say so I announced my intention to do so , '' said Mr. Effingham , in a gloomy and hesitating voice . 
`` It seems that every thing I do creates something of that description , '' said Mr. Effingham , gloomily . 
Mr. Effingham passed his hand thoughtfully and wearily across his brow . 
A struggle seemed to be going on in his mind . 
`` If I fancy going with this young woman , I will go , '' he said , at length . 
Mr. Effingham mused . 
`` I had determined , '' he replied , `` but I do not know now if I shall go -- I think not . '' 
Mr. Effingham 's countenance displayed still the struggle going on in his mind . 
Then a bright light cleared away the gloom and doubt , and his features became serene and soft once more . 
He had thought of Kate , and now said : `` Jack , I do n't think I will go . 
said Mr. Effingham , cheerily . 
said Mr. Effingham , with a soft smile . 
said Mr. Effingham , returning to his youth again , as the fox-hunter brought the past back to him with his familiar , honest voice , his frank eyes , and laughing reminiscences . 
Mr. Effingham 's head drooped . 
I was a young man , then , but just as young as the youngest , and your favorite practice was to hold up the corners of her silk apron , until that black monkey , Joe , threw down enough to fill it -- '' Mr. Effingham smiled . 
said Mr. Effingham , smiling . 
`` I 'm afraid I can not , '' said Mr. Effingham , thinking of Clare . 
`` You 're better than I am , Jack , '' said his friend quietly . 
Mr. Effingham found himself laughing delightedly , and murmuring , `` Darling Kate ! '' 
Mr. Effingham asked , with an imperceptible clouding of the brow . 
asked Mr. Effingham , feeling his anger rise at what he regarded as an impertinent piece of interference with his private affairs . 
asked Mr. Effingham , with a curling lip . 
said Mr. Effingham , with disdainful pride . 
Mr. Effingham 's hand grasped the hilt of his sword . 
`` Hamilton , you have acted as a real friend , '' said Mr. Effingham , with a frown . 
said Mr. Effingham , furiously . 
And Mr. Effingham 's lip curled with anger and scorn . 
he continued , indignantly , `` I am then a child who is to ask permission of these worthy gentlemen -- these potent , grave , and reverend signors -- if I chance to feel a wish to escort a lady to a ball ! 
And Mr. Effingham put his cocked hat on with a movement which betrayed his anger and indignation : he had taken it off during this speech to wipe his brow , moist with perspiration . 
Mr. Effingham shook his head , with a frown . 
`` It will end otherwise , '' he said . 
said Mr. Effingham , dsidainfully . 
added Mr. Effingham , with a scornful pride . 
And the honest fox-hunter , refusing to receive Mr. Effingham 's assurances of regret , for any thing that he might have said , and declining to enter the tavern , parted from him , with a shake of the hand , full of cordiality and friendship . 
Mr. Effingham for a moment looked after him with friendly p520-181 regard , then the old gloomy expression usurped its former place upon his visage , and he ascended to his chamber . 
Kate was not there , and he hurried out to look around for her . 
He heard voices in Beatrice 's room -- Kate 's , he thought ; and hastening to the door , opened it just as they were issuing forth as we have seen . 
`` Informer pages of this true history , I had occasion to set down a few reflections upon the feelings of my worthy ancestor , Mr. Effingham , when , having been repulsed by the young actress , he rode back to the hall . 
His father had imagined that his cheek was pale , his eye mournful , his health injured , by those incessant explorations into the ruins of systems and nations ; the play , he thought , would be of service to him ; and he had gone , and admired Beatrice Hallam , and felt some indignation when Mr. Effingham annoyed her -- and nothing more . 
Then he had preserved that young woman 's life , and there is much of significance in this fact . 
Then impelled by the desire to see again that enchanting face , hear again the fresh voice , so pure , and loving , and musical , he had gone to town persuading himself that business required his attention there , and at the office of the ` Gazette ' encountered his friend , who , at the conclusion of their interview , had conveyed to him the intelligence that number sevenwas occupied by Mr. Effingham . 
We have seen how his face flushed and his breast labored as in a close atmosphere . 
He had intended to visit the young girl , but business called him away , and when he had dispatched it , the evening began to draw on , and he was obliged to return homeward . 
He returned , then , with that one thought in his brain -- that one sensation in his heart . 
Persecuted -- for this was plainly persecution on Mr. Effingham 's part -- loved and followed , for this , too , was as plain -- Beatrice became more dear to him than ever . 
His breast heaved , his eye flashed , his haughty lip trembled , and he passed a sleepless night thinking of her . 
Then for the first time he started at his own feelings , and he felt his heart throb . 
He would be her protector from that man , who had , on the first evening of her appearance , annoyed and insulted her ; he would watch over her , find if he really persecuted her -- yes , and if necessary , avenge her ! 
Then he stopped , like a horse at full speed suddenly checked by his rider . 
Where had his imagination borne him -- what was he dreaming of ? 
What interest had he in this young girl ? 
say that he had preserved her life , would not any courageous man have done the same ? 
The name of Effingham evidently excited some painful emotion -- and he remained silent , until they reached the Raleigh . 
In the long nights , the breezes of the ocean sighed , and sobbed , and murmured to each other round the antique chimneys , and a sombre desolation , uncheered by any light but the great struggling blood-red moon 's , appeared to brood over the broad domain of Effingham and the thoughtful , silent Hall . 
Mr. Effingham 's doings were , indeed , the talk of the colony , as he had said , with such disdainful indifference , but none of the colonists introduced the subject at the Hall . 
It was half understood that she and Henrietta would go -- with the Effingham party , or accompanied by their cavaliers . 
Letus now descend from generalities to particular scenes , and in order to make this descent , ascend to Mr. Effingham 's apartment in the `` Raleigh . '' 
The letters were enormous , and Mr. Effingham read , without difficuly , `` Miss Beatrice Hallam , the delight of the noble aristocracy and the wonder of the universal world . '' 
`` Yes , '' he said , smiling grimly , as the procession passed slowly on ; `` yes , she is the delight of the noble aristocracy ! 
He was not present at that interview with Charles Waters , and had not heard those prayers , and sobs , and despairing murmurs , or he would never have uttered that bitter taunt . 
Mr. Effingham sat down again . 
he said , with scornful carelessness . 
said Mr. Effingham , with his usual disdainful coolness . 
Mr. Effingham shrugged his shoulders . 
`` Yes , '' he said . 
`` Come , no exploding , '' said Mr. Effingham , with cool disdain ; `` do not affect astonishment . 
`` No , I am not , '' said Mr. Effingham , gloomily . 
`` One of which whims is a contempt for the name of Effingham ; is it not ? '' 
`` She has a queer way of showing it , '' he said , with gloomy scorn . 
`` And hence it follows , '' continued Mr. Effingham , `` that there is no danger of having a thin house to greet me . '' 
how could the fashionable Mr. Champ Effingham , of Effingham Hall , turning comedian , fail of a crowded house ? 
`` Good , '' said Mr. Effingham , leaning over his shoulders . 
`` Of course , they would not suit me , '' said Mr. Effingham , with his usual disdainful indifference . 
`` Certainly not , '' said Mr. Effingham . 
`` That would suit me as little , '' replied Mr. Effingham . 
`` Say I am coming , '' he replied to the servant : then turning to Mr. Effingham , he added , `` just wait for me , sir -- I 'll be back in a minute . 
And with these words he hurried out of the room , puffing and red in the face . 
Mr. Effingham had received this speech with extreme indifference , and gazed with great disdain on the half-emptied trunk : then he seemed to change his mind , and stooping down he turned over and tossed the costumes about , carelessly . 
Suddenly his eye fell upon one which seemed to suit perfectly his purpose . 
He took it up , and said aloud : `` Well , here is what will answer my purpose , I suppose -- a pretty heavy bundle ! 
Had he done so , the whole course of this narrative , thereafter , would have been different -- how different no one can tell . 
But he changed his mind before unrolling it , and added : `` Bah ! 
And leaving the trunk open , he walked carelessly along the passage , and scarcely taking the trouble to knock , entered Beatrice 's apartment . 
For a moment Mr. Effingham stood looking at this eloquent picture , returning her silent and cold gaze . 
`` Ah , '' he said , at length , `` studying as usual , I see ! 
`` You do not answer , '' he said , still more bitterly ; `` perhaps I am not worth answering , madam . '' 
Beatrice raised her cold , heavy eyes , and looked at him fixedly . 
`` Mr. Effingham , I am in no humor to converse this morning , '' she replied , coldly . 
`` The Chevalier Waters , '' replied Mr. Effingham , with a sneer . 
`` Mr. Effingham , '' said Beatrice , raising her head with cold solemnity , and speaking in a voice hoarse with sorrow , `` I insult no one , sir . 
`` Mr. Effingham , we waste time . '' 
`` Then we shall see , '' said Mr. Effingham , with that bitter and reckless laugh which at times issued from his lips , `` force against force ! '' 
`` Mr. Effingham , I am weary -- I have my part to study . '' 
`` I know nothing of the matter , Mr. Effingham , '' she said , coldly . 
`` Mr. Effingham , your great pleasure in life seems to lie in insulting me . '' 
`` Mr. Effingham , I am exhausted -- your voice agitates me -- pray leave me , sir -- '' Mr. Effingham listened to these coldly-uttered words of dismissal with an internal rage , which broke forth and displayed itself in a mocking and harsh laugh . 
he said , with a sneer ; `` you bring your queenly airs from the stage for me ! 
And overpowered by rage , and remorse , and agony , his brow wet with perspiration , his lips trembling , all his form shaking with the terrible war of emotions so profound and bitter , the unhappy young man , waiting for no reply , rushed from the room . 
So feverish had been her emotion , that she had not observed the presence of an object , which Mr. Effingham had dropped upon the floor of her apartment . 
`` You are deceived -- Mr. Effingham -- if you refer to him -- Mr. Effingham is nothing to me ! '' 
He sought me -- has persecuted me with attentions I abhor -- he has made my life , dark enough , God knows , already , darker still by his eternal persecution . 
Afteruttering that mad , passionate speech , so crammed with bitter and scornful irony , Mr. Effingham , as we have seen , flung from the young girl 's room , in an access of rage , which tore him like a vulture 's talons . 
He had passed through many of these fiery interviews lately , and had many such pale rages , which tore his heart for a time , then slowly subsided , like a storm muttering away into the distance . 
On this occasion he found himself , as usual , grow somewhat calmer , when her cold and inexorable face was removed from him ; and soon his bitter , reckless smile returned , and mockery replaced anger . 
He went back to the manager 's room , and threw the costume disdainfully into the trunk ; then , scarcely conscious of what he was doing , proceeded to restore the various bundles to their places . 
Fate still directed him , for who knows what would have occurred if that fit of absence had not seized him , and he had left those dresses where they lay -- throwing down carelessly the one he had brought back upon them ? 
He had just slammed down the lid of the trunk violently , when Mr. Manager Hallam returned . 
said Mr. Effingham , coldly . 
said Mr. Manager Hallam , anxiously ; for his matrimonial project never left his thoughts . 
`` Yes , '' returned Mr. Effingham , with scornful carelessness ; `` I think she is beginning to like me . '' 
`` Quite true , '' replied Mr. Effingham ; `` she is perfectly sincere . '' 
This somewhat embarrassed Mr. Manager Hallam ; for the young girl 's demeanor to Mr. Effingham , when he had observed it lately , was exceedingly far from supporting an answer in the affirmative . 
But he replied , at once : `` I think she will in time , sir . '' 
continued Mr. Effingham ; `` let us leave love matters , and come to business . 
said Mr. Effingham , summing up with disdainful nonchalance . 
An hour or two afterwards Mr. Effingham issued forth , clad as before in his rich foppish costume -- only that his slippers were replaced by elegant riding buskins reaching a little above the ankle and ornamented with rosettes : he seldom wore boots , then rapidly becoming the fashion among all classes . 
In his hand he carried an elegant gold-ornamented riding whip -- and so he mounted , and , as the evening closed in stormily , set forth toward Yorktown . 
Mr. Effingham dismounted , and summoning the sleepy servant , gave his animal into his hands . 
The horse was covered with sweat , and his mouth dropping foam . 
Mr. Effingham was clad in a complete military suit -- huge boots , curved heavy sword , broad belt , and Flanders hat . 
Mr. Manager Hallam had no such costume in his repertory , and indeed , Mr. Effingham had not visited the good town of York , at all . 
Beatricehad reached Williamsburg just as the theatre was about to commence , and was compelled , without losing a moment , to hurry away to her painful duty . 
We may fancy that she felt little disposition to appear that evening : but one of the lessons of her hard life , was an unhesitating sacrifice of private feelings to her duty , and she repaired to the theatre , without even tasting a morsel . 
Indeed , she could not have eaten any thing -- her heart was too much overcome by the thousand conflicting emotions she had experienced throughout the day ; and she did not feel weak . 
Something sustained her , and she began her part with strange calmness . 
Never had she acted better , as we have seen -- but those tumultuous plaudits fell upon unheeding ears : they were now painful to her -- as that profession , which a cruel destiny forced her to pursue , was revolting and a cruel trial . 
She made her concluding bow with the same coldness which had characterized her , when , on her entrance , she had been greeted with thunders of applause ; and then calmly returned to the Raleigh . 
She wished to be alone with her grief -- to shed tears without being subjected to the wondering questions of any person : -- she wished , after delighting the crowded audience , and sending them away thinking how rapturous her happiness and pride must be at such intoxicating praises -- she wished to go and sob her heart into calmness , in the stillness of her chamber . 
Bidding her father good night with a kiss at the door of her little room -- from which another door led to her bed-chamber -- the young girl entered and lighted a taper . 
Then she observed for the first time , on the floor , that object which Mr. Effingham had dropped , when he rushed from the room , and which in the tumult of her feelings she had lost sight completely of . 
It was a little frock , such as were worn by very young children ; and so slight was it , that Mr. Effingham had doubtless not observed that it had escaped from the bundle which he held in his hand . 
-- that locket was the gift of her dying mother -- that coat in Mr. Effingham 's hand the soldier 's -- that little frock was the garment she had worn , a poor little baby , while her brave father , stretched upon his couch , was struggling with the cold hand of death , and dedicating his last moments to her own safety and restoration . 
Virginia rose on her last , and all she had suffered -- Mr. Effingham 's persecutions , the scorn and forgiveness of that young girl who loved him -- lastly , the love and unhappiness of Charles . 
We have seen how Mr. Effingham , with that blind and obstinate wilfulness , had clung to his determination to appear upon the stage , and how he had ridden forth to procure the necessary costume . 
We have also seen how he returned to the `` Raleigh , '' a few hours afterwards , equipped in a complete military costume perfectly adapted to the character which he designed to represent . 
Mr. Effingham , on the next morning , had just repaired to his room , after languidly conversing at the door of the `` Raleigh '' with half a dozen of the wild hangers-on of the dramatic company , to whose society he had learned to stoop in gracious condescension , when a singular circumstance attracted the attention of the worthies who surrounded the door . 
The observable circumstance about the foreign-looking gentleman , who now drew up and called in a loud , hearty voice for the ostler , was that , in his outward appearance , he presented a perfect counterpart of no less a person than Mr. Champ Effingham . 
asked the landlord , still riveting his eyes upon the extraordinary counterpart of Mr. Effingham . 
`` My name is Effingham , '' he said . 
The general conviction was , that Mr. Effingham had a ghost , who , unlike himself , wore a mustache , and they waited for the reappearance of the spectre . 
had Mr. Effingham dared to persecute her in reality ! 
-- and with the thought his hand clenched , his breast heaved , his brows were curved into a haughty frown ; his pace , already rapid , became the walk of a race-horse . 
He would soon know , for there was Williamsburg : he is in the streets : he passes through the noisy , laughing , bustling throng : he enters the inn : he knocks and goes into her room -- she is there before him ! 
Beatrice rose , with such an expression of mingled anxiety and joy , that he remained for a moment without advancing , gazing at her in silence . 
And her voice trembled slightly , as she placed her hand in his , with fond and confiding affection . 
A tremor passed over his frame as he took it . 
he said , coming with a bound to his absorbing thought . 
He breathed more freely , and sat down , passing his hand over his throbbing brow . 
he murmured , with his face turned from her . 
he said , not feeling himself strong enough to encounter her gaze : `` what could have made you unhappy ? '' 
The tone of these words plainly indicated that his meaning was , `` Iam the wretched and unhappy person -- your suitor for a priceless boon denied to me -- Ihave a right to feel miserable , you have not . '' 
`` Yes , yes , we all have -- we are mortal , '' he replied , in a low voice , `` I have had much myself . '' 
`` I will not , '' he murmured , his large shadowy eyes turning to her own for a moment , then averting their gaze . 
He suppressed his emotion by a powerful effort , and taking her hand , said , sorrowfully : `` You shall not be agitated again by any thing I say ; let us not touch upon that subject then . 
Beatrice looked at him , with inexpressible affection , and murmured , `` that might be nearly true . '' 
he said . 
he exclaimed , raising his head quickly . 
he exclaimed , rising erect , `` something strange has happened : you tremble : you send for me : speak ! 
`` Yes , '' he murmured , looking at her as in a dream . 
he said , scarcely conscious of what he was saying , scarcely able to speak from agitation -- wonder -- an overwhelming , undreamed of delight , which paralyzed his limbs , it seemed , arresting the very blood in his veins , making a lifeless statue of him . 
Her knees bent under her , and overcome , exhausted , she would in another second have fallen upon his bosom : -- when suddenly the door was thrown open , and Mr. Effingham entered the apartment . 
How the singular interview would have commenced , it is impossible to say -- for all at once , the wheezy voice of Mr. Manager Hallam was heard at the door , saying : `` Ah , Mr. Effingham ! 
Mr. Effingham ! 
`` We do not see you so often as our friend Mr. Effingham , '' he added , for the sake of saying something . 
`` Which is probably attributable to the fact that I live here , '' replied Mr. Effingham , coldly . 
`` You look agitated , Beatrice , '' continued the manager , turning to his daughter with a constraint which was very observable . 
he continued , turning to the silent man . 
He turned round ; Mr. Effingham stood before him . 
`` Well , sir , '' said his opponent as coldly . 
`` And mine Effingham . '' 
His opponent inclined his head coldly . 
said Mr. Effingham , haughtily ; `` you will not understand ; you are a marble statue . 
These cold words seemed to irritate Mr. Effingham more and more . 
`` I mean , sir , '' he said , `` that you and Miss Beatrice Hallam have been making me the subject of criticism -- you have been indulging in abusive words relating to myself . '' 
`` Mr. Effingham , '' said his opponent , `` look at my face . '' 
His adversary 's face flushed , and forgetting all his self-control , he said : `` If I do not wear , I use the sword , sir . '' 
Mr. Effingham 's eye flashed . 
he cried ; `` when shall we meet ? '' 
`` And , pray , why , sir , '' asked Mr. Effingham , haughtily . 
`` Well , sir , '' said Mr. Effingham , coldly , but cold only by a violent effort , `` it is a matter of little importance from which party the defiance comes . 
`` Perfectly , sir , '' said his opponent , turning pale with anger at the disdainful coldness of Mr. Effingham 's tone , and losing at last , all his self-control . 
His adversary 's brow flushed . 
he said , `` you are very courteous , and I trust your lesson in the sword exercise will be more worthy of attention than the present one you give me in politeness . '' 
Mr. Effingham was carried away by his rage -- his eyes filled with blood -- and , grinding his teeth , he drew his sword . 
Furious , blind , mad with passion , no one knows what he might have done , when , suddenly , a loud `` Diable ! '' 
was heard , and Mr. Effingham found his sword knocked up by the scabbard of another perfectly similar to it . 
It was the ghost , who , coming out of his room , had heard the altercation , and arrived just in time . 
`` Well , sir , '' said Mr. Effingham , with his reckless smile , `` come to-morrow and see another . '' 
`` Thanks , sir , '' said Mr. Effingham ; `` your offer relieves me from much trouble , and I accept it . '' 
in other words , comrade , let me have your name -- Effingham , is it not ? '' 
The stranger , with his eyes still fixed with the same curious expression on the other , said to Mr. Effingham : `` I regret that I shall have to withdraw my offer to officiate as your second . '' 
said Mr. Effingham , abruptly , and with some irritation . 
You know , now , sir , '' he added , turning to Mr. Effingham , `` why it is not proper that I should act as your second in a duel with the brother of my dearest friend . '' 
`` Well , sir , as you choose , '' said Mr. Effingham ; `` you are at liberty to act as pleases you , of course . '' 
`` It means that I wanted your soldier 's dress , '' said Mr. Effingham , coolly , `` and took it . '' 
`` And now , mon ami , '' he said , to Mr. Effingham , `` take pity on a poor defeated comrade , who has got the worst of it , who came along groaning over his defeat , who , in conclusion , will cheerfully debate the right of property in the said costume , at the sword 's point ! 
`` That is not necessary , sir , '' said Mr. Effingham , who had listened to the stranger with haughty indifference ; `` I have no need of the dress at present , as the occasion for which I took it in exchange for my own is deferred some days . '' 
`` Oh , you are welcome then , to it , comrade , '' replied the stranger , who , still looking abstractedly at Charles Waters , had not noticed the cold accent of Mr. Effingham 's voice ; `` when you wish me to unshell myself , you have but to speak , and I will cheerfully do so . 
`` First , however , let me restore to you this bundle of Bank of England notes , '' said Mr. Effingham , taking from his purse the money , `` I found them in the pocket of your coat -- ten notes of ten pounds each . '' 
`` Good -- good -- I had forgotten them completely , '' said the soldier , thrusting them into his pocket without looking at them ; `` and now let us proceed to your apartment , mon compagnon.It is understood that this little affair takes place -- '' `` Day after to-morrow , if that is agreeable to Mr. Waters , '' said Mr. Effingham , with his disdainful coldness ; `` I have indispensable engagements . '' 
And leaving Charles Waters , the two copies of each other entered Mr. Effingham 's apartment -- the one laughing , joyous , talking loudly ; the other cold , silent , and with a weary , reckless look , which made the contrast perfect . 
Mr. Effingham , seated in his room , smiled scornfully , as the music and the people 's shouts came to him . 
He felt that all that noisy and joyous world was alien to him -- cared nothing for him -- was perfectly indifferent whether he suffered or was happy . 
He despised the empty fools in his heart , without reflecting that the jar and discord was not in the music and the voices -- but in himself . 
And this was the audience he would have to see him play Benedick ! 
-- these plebeian voices would have liberty to applaud or hiss him ! 
-- the thought nearly opened his eyes to the true character of the step he was about to take . 
What was he about to do ? 
that night he was going to the palace of the Governor with an actress leaning on his arm -- there to defy the whole Colony of Virginia , in effect to say to them -- `` Look ! 
-- then in a day or two his name would be published in a placard , `` The part of Benedick , by Champ Effingham , Esq. '' -- to be made the subject of satirical and insulting comment by the very boors and overseers . 
These two things he was about to do , and he drew back for a moment -- for an instant hesitated . 
But suddenly , the interview he had with Hamilton came back to him , and his lip was wreathed with his reckless sneer again . 
They would not permit him , forsooth ! 
-- his appearance at the ball with Miss Hallam , would be regarded as a general insult , and a dozen duels spring out of it ! 
-- he would do well to avoid the place ! 
-- to sneak , to skulk , to swallow all his fine promises and boasts ! 
he said , aloud , with his teeth clenched ; `` by heaven ! 
`` Permit me to end your perplexity , ladies , '' says the oracle , `` Cordelia , is Miss Clare Lee , and Dion , is Mr. Champ Effingham ! '' 
`` Let me defend her , '' says a gentleman , smiling ; `` I grant you that 't is extravagant to call Mr. Effingham a thunderbolt -- '' `` Laughable . '' 
`` As regards Mr. Effingham , '' adds Clare 's knight , `` I shall be pardoned for not saying any thing , since he is not present . '' 
`` Then I will say something , '' here interposes a small gentleman , with a waistcoat reaching to his knees , and profusely laced , like all the rest of his clothes -- indeed , the richness of his costume was distressing -- `` but I will say , sir , that Mr. Effingham 's treatment of that divine creature , Miss Clare Lee , is shameful . '' 
`` Why , '' says the gentleman in the long waistcoat , squaring himself , so to speak , and greatly delighted at the sudden accession to his importance -- the general opinion being that he was somewhat insignificant , `` why , ladies , he has been running after that little jade , Miss Hallam ! '' 
cry the ladies , in virtuous ignorance , though nothing was more notorious than the goings-on of our friend Mr. Effingham , `` Miss Hallam ! '' 
`` Well , let us hear Mr. Effingham 's crimes , '' says Laura . 
`` He has been making himself ridiculous about that actress , '' continues the chronicler , `` and I have even heard , designs to marry her . '' 
`` He 's been at the ` Raleigh Tavern , ' making love to her for a month , '' continues the narrator . 
`` He has left his family , '' the gentleman in the long waistcoat goes on , indignantly , `` and they are dying of grief . '' 
These are some of the comments on Mr. Effingham 's conduct , from the elegant little dames . 
At which words the gentlemen are observed to smile -- knowing as they do , something of Mr. Champ Effingham 's personal character and habits . 
They feel themselves very far above this shameless creature attempting to catch -- as we now say -- Mr. Effingham : they pity her , for such a thing never has occurred to them -- no gentleman has ever been attractive enough for them to have designs upon his heart . 
It seemed that the gentleman in the long waistcoat was doomed to have all his prophecies falsified ; for at that moment , the usher announced in a loud voice , which attracted the attention of the whole company : `` Mr. Effingham and Miss Hallam ! '' 
Mr. Effingham was dressed with extraordinary richness . 
He was always elegant in his costume , on that night he was splendid . 
His coat of rich cut velvet , was covered with embroidery , and sparkled with a myriad of chased gold buttons ; his lace ruffles at breast and wrist were point-de-venise , his fingers were brilliant with rings , and his powdered hair waved from his clear pale temples like a stream of silver dust . 
He looked like a courtier of the days of Louis XIV. , dressed for a royal reception . 
Her simple , unassuming dress , of pearl color , looped back with plain ribbon , and without a single flower , or any ornament whatever , looked strangely out of place , thrown in contrast with the brilliant silks , and velvets , and gold buttons , and diamonds of her companion : her modest , tender face , and drooping head , with its unpretending coiffure , looked quite insignificant beside the bold , defiant countenance of Mr. Effingham , which returned look for look , and gaze for gaze , with an insulting nonchalance and easy hauteur . 
This soon passed , however , and by the time Mr. Effingham had accomplished his easy bow , the governor was himself again , and like the elegant gentleman he was , made a low inclination before Beatrice . 
Mr. Effingham advanced through the opening , on each side of which extended a row of brilliant forms , sparkling with lace and jewels , without any apparent consciousness that he and his companion were the observed of all observers -- without being conscious , one would have said , of those murmured comments which greeted , on every side , the strange and novel scene . 
His manner to Beatrice , as he bent down to speak to her , was full of respectful and chivalric feeling ; his eye was soft , his lip smiling ; the highest lady of the land might well have felt an emotion of pleasure in so elegant and noble an exhibition of regard . 
And this was not affected by Mr. Effingham . 
We have failed to convey a truthful impression of this young gentleman 's character , if the reader has not , before this time , perceived that , with all his woful faults and failings , Mr. Champ Effingham had much in his character of the bold gentleman -- the ancient knight . 
With those thousand satirical or scornful eyes bent on her , Beatrice was dearer to him than she had ever been before . 
Well , he would espouse the cause of that girl they scorned against them all , and treat her like a queen ! 
Never had she had more complete possession of his heart -- never had his heart thrilled so deliciously at the contact of her hand , resting upon his arm . 
Mr. Effingham looked round , with a cool and easy smile , and led the young girl to a seat , near some elderly dowagers , in turbans and diamonds , who had enthroned themselves in state , to watch their daughters , and see that those inexperienced creatures did not give too much encouragement to ineligible personages . 
Mr. Effingham smiled , with his easy , mocking expression , and observing that one of the diamond-decorated dowagers had dropped her fan , picked it up , and presented it to her , with a bow . 
`` Ah , '' said Mr. Effingham , politely , `` I was mistaken . '' 
And fanning himself for a moment negligently , he placed the richly feathered instrument in the hand of Beatrice . 
asked Mr. Effingham , with polite surprise . 
In the hands of that -- '' `` Oh , I understand , '' returned Mr. Effingham ; and with a low inclination to Beatrice , he said , holding out his hand , `` Will you permit me ? '' 
`` How graceful the costume of our young ladies is becoming , '' said Mr. Effingham , bending down courteously to Beatrice , on the back of whose chair he leaned . 
`` Much prettier , I think , than that of fifty years ago , '' continued Mr. Effingham , smiling , and glancing respectfully at the elderly and indignant ladies , who were listening . 
`` There is a fitness about the fresh , new style , '' he continued , `` and it suits youth . 
And Mr. Effingham , smiling meekly , seemed perfectly unconscious of the storm muttering around him . 
As he spoke , honest Jack Hamilton , who had left the Riverhead and Effingham party in the other room , approached , and with a movement of his head , asked to be presented to Beatrice . 
said Mr. Effingham , smiling ; `` it seems to me that that minuet there is abominably performed , and the music is shockingly fast . '' 
here said a voice , at his elbow ; `` ai n't I glad to see you ! '' 
And turning round , Mr. Effingham found himself in front of Master Will ; but Master Will was so metamorphosed that he scarcely recognized him . 
Mr. Effingham shook hands . 
Will started back before the tremendous frown of his brother ; for Beatrice heard the words , and turned away her head . 
Mr. Effingham raised his finger , and was about to say something that would have annihilated the youthful cavalier , when suddenly he felt a soft , warm , little hand take his own , and turning round , he saw little Kate 's bright , smiling face . 
I wanted to come before , but could n't , '' she said , leaning her bright little head against his side ; `` I 'm so glad to see you . '' 
Mr. Effingham 's cynical smile became soft , his head drooped toward the child ; but suddenly Kate recognized Beatrice , who had been concealed from her by Jack Hamilton , motionless , coughing , trying to converse ; -- there was the lady of the tavern -- the actress -- the person who had caused them so much grief . 
Mr. Effingham saw it -- divined the reason -- and his face too was overshadowed . 
He was about to speak , when -- the first dance having terminated some moments before -- a second minuet was commenced by the band . 
said he to Beatrice ; and taking her hand , he raised her , and led her forward . 
`` Not so fast , '' he said , with a gesture of his hand , to the musicians ; `` I can not dance a minuet to a gavotte tune . '' 
And he entered into the broad , open space with Beatrice the mark of a thousand eyes . 
The group which we have paid some attention to already -- that group which had expressed such delight at the verses of the accomplished -LRB- colonial -RRB- Earl of Dorset , and who had uttered such a variety of comment on Dion , Cordelia , and Beatrice -- the group of which Myrtilla , Isadora , and the Long waistcoat , were the shining stars -- now gazed in horror at the presumption and effrontery of Mr. Effingham . 
`` But he is very graceful , '' hazarded Myrtilla , who , as we know , defended faintly Mr. Effingham 's character , when it had been attacked by the censor . 
cried Sylvia ; `` she pretends to look as if she was not dying for joy at being the partner of the fascinating Mr. Effingham . '' 
`` I suppose she would not ally herself with his family ; they are too low , '' said Isadora , spitefully ; `` may be she has refused his hand . '' 
The entrance of Mr. Effingham into the open space , to dance the second minuet of the evening , had caused an awful sensation . 
As he glided through the stately dance to the slow-rolling music , bowing profoundly , with his tender , lordly smile , touching the young girl 's hand with chivalric respect , pressing his cocked hat to his heart at each inclination of his handsome and brilliant head , all eyes had been bent upon him , all tongues busy with him . 
They forgot the prepossessions of rank , the prejudices of class -- no longer remembered that the young actress occupied upon the floor a position to which she was not entitled ; -- they only saw a woman who had all the rest against her ; and their sympathy was nearly powerful enough to make them lose sight of Mr. Effingham 's defiance . 
A murmur rose as the music stopped , and he led her to a seat ; and then a species of undulation in the crowd , near the entrance into the next room , attracted attention . 
Mr. Effingham had his back turned , however , and did not observe this incident . 
He was talking to Beatrice in a low tone . 
`` You see , '' he said , with his calm , nonchalant voice -- `` you see , Beatrice , that this superb society , which you fancied you would find yourself so much out of place in , is not so very extraordinary after all . 
And his cynical smile grew soft , as he gazed on the tender , anxious face . 
`` It was not so dreadful an ordeal , '' he added , `` though I must say we were the subject of much curiosity . 
With which words , Mr. Effingham 's lip curled . 
And Mr. Effingham raised his head proudly and looked around like an emperor . 
Mr. Effingham observed how faint she was , and leaning over , took a smelling-bottle from the hand of the old dowager , who had dropped the fan -- bowing and smiling . 
He presented it to Beatrice , but she put it away with the back of her hand : whereupon Mr. Effingham , with a second bow , restored it to the dowager , who , aghast at his impudence , beaten by his superior coolness , and overwhelmed with rage , took it without knowing what she did . 
Mr. Effingham thereupon turned , smiling , to Beatrice again : `` There seems to be something going on yonder , '' he said , leaning on her chair , and directing the young girl 's attention to the flashing waves of the crowd , which moved to and fro like foaming billows , in the light of the brilliant chandeliers . 
And rising with a hurried movement , she placed her hand on Mr. Effingham 's arm . 
Mr. Effingham held her back , and hesitated . 
At last he said : `` Well , madam -- as you please -- I have had a pleasant minuet -- I will go . '' 
And with the same cold , defiant ease , he led the young girl across the room , and issued forth into the open air . 
In ten minutes it stopped at the Raleigh , and Mr. Effingham , with a strange throbbing of the heart , handed the young girl out . 
At that moment he loved her so madly , so defiantly , that he would have given the universe to clasp her to his bosom . 
He knew how such a proceeding would be received , however , and led her in silence to her room , where Mr. Manager Hallam was sitting by the fire , toasting his enormous feet . 
said Mr. Effingham , in his most petit maître tones , `` how could I have so long neglected to place my homage at the feet of the queen of beauty ! '' 
`` I can not pardon myself , '' continued Mr. Effingham , arranging his drop curls ; `` if Phillis scorns her Corydon , and beats him with her crook , he can not complain ; his humbled eyes dare not rise higher than the ribbons fluttering on the bodice of his pastoral princess . '' 
The fashion of the time , must plead Mr. Effingham 's excuse for this extraordinary speech . 
And so Myrtilla made a laughing courtesey : and Mr. Effingham turned away . 
He found himself face to face with the small gentleman who had criticised him so pleasantly , and whose criticism his quick eye had seen reflected in his face , as the young man had danced opposite to Beatrice . 
said he , now , to this gentleman , `` are you here too ? '' 
`` And with as long a waistcoat as ever , '' continued Mr. Effingham , smiling . 
`` Yes , a pleasant ball -- but the society is somewhat mixed , '' said Mr. Effingham , with courteous smiles , `` things are becoming changed . 
`` Yes , you are right , sir , '' said Sylvia , tossing her little head : a manœuver which Mr. Effingham rightly attributed to the fact that the damsel meant to allude to Beatrice . 
`` Why , nothing could be plainer , '' he continued . 
Mr. Effingham slightly turned round , as much as to say `` did you presume to reply to me , sir ? '' 
`` Very mixed -- shockingly , '' he said ; `` every body is beginning to mingle in society , and we now see all descriptions of costume . 
`` Shocking taste , and shows their condition , '' added Mr. Effingham ; `` they even persist in wearing those abominable waistcoats , as brilliant as the rainbow , and nearly as long -- invariable indication of the parvenu . '' 
And Mr. Effingham smiled amiably at the gentleman in the long waistcoat , who was furious -- raised his hand with an air inexpressibly foppish , to the ladies , and moved on . 
He encountered Jack Hamilton , who , in the midst of a group of foxhunters like himself , was laughing and talking at the top of his voice . 
`` Oh , here is Effingham ! '' 
Mr. Effingham replied , calmly : `` She got tired , and I returned with her . 
And his cold eye told Hamilton very plainly what he meant . 
This was true ; and when Mr. Effingham held out his hand to the party , who were all slightly acquainted with him , it was taken with hearty warmth , and not a few rough and sincere compliments paid to Beatrice , though they did not scruple to say as plainly that there `` was no use in bringing her . '' 
Mr. Effingham only smiled , and passed on , leaving Jack Hamilton behind . 
The simple fact was , that , proud and disdainful as Mr. Effingham was , he feared to encounter the eye of his father , or of Henrietta , or Alethea , or Clare . 
He had understood the cause of the young girl 's sudden faintness perfectly well . 
She had entered from the second room , and seen him dancing a minuet with that rival , whom she had so generously forgiven , and clasped to her pure , tender heart -- and though Mr. Effingham was ignorant of the fact of the interview , he was at no loss to understand Clare 's emotion . 
This was the reason why he feared to meet her -- and yet p520-291 with that dread was mingled a strange desire ; as if he wished to stand before her and give her look for look , and break her heart and his own . 
Mr. Effingham began to feel a diseased craving for excitement -- he had become accustomed to acute and painful emotions ; he fed on them as his daily bread . 
Clare had left the ball almost at the same moment with himself and Beatrice : had entered the Effingham chariot with the squire and his party just as his own carriage drove off . 
Once , as Mr. Effingham drew near the door , he encountered the gaze of Henrietta , who had chosen to remain with Hamilton : and with rage in his heart he made her a low and exaggerated bow . 
Havingthus briefly related the manner in which Mr. Effingham returned to the ball , and sought for adventures there like a second Don Quixote , though without the good fortune of the noble gentleman of La Mancha , we shall now go back to the moment when Beatrice re-entered her room , after the trying ordeal she had passed through . 
`` Was Mr. Effingham attentive ? '' 
`` Yes , sir ; at her home , near Mr. Effingham 's . '' 
`` And , no doubt , told her how much you hated him ; that you were not to blame if her lover was infatuated about you ; that you had repulsed him , insulted him , asked him to leave you , exhausted every means to make him abandon his unworthy project , of marrying you -- '' `` Yes , sir -- I did -- '' `` You did -- ` Yes , sir -- I did ! ' 
Mr. Effingham brought here this frock ! '' 
Mr. Effingham stood before her , and had plainly heard the words she had just uttered . 
We may imagine the feelings of Mr. Effingham , on hearing from the gloomy and agitated manager , that his own act had revealed to Beatrice the secret of her birth ; we may comprehend the rage of the young man on finding that , by his own agency , Beatrice had come to know that Charles Waters was her cousin , his uncle her father ; we may further understand the despair of Hallam , the terrible agitation of Beatrice -- we can not describe them . 
When Mr. Effingham went away to his room that night , he was a prey to one of his silent and sombre rages ; he had raised this new barrier himself . 
The instrument of fate , and unknown to himself , his hand had opened that sealed book ; and what the young girl had read had for ever separated her from him . 
That rival -- bitterly hated before , now far more bitterly -- would be her lawful protector ; and whether in their duel he fell or conquered , nothing would be gained . 
A thousand tumultuous thoughts like these chased themselves through his mind -- we can not trace them -- it is a repulsive subject , and we pass on . 
`` I am not well , sir , '' said Mr. Effingham , coldly . 
Indeed , the soldier was no longer cabined , cribbed , and confined in the tight , foppish suit he had originally worn , but was clad in the elegant military suit which we have seen Mr. Effingham return in , on the night he left Williamsburg for York . 
To his merry observation , that he felt in excellent spirits , Mr. Effingham made no reply . 
said Mr. Effingham , still cold and gloomy . 
said Mr. Effingham , already tired of his companion . 
`` Arrange , is not precisely the word , companion , '' continued the soldier , caressing the black fringe on his lip ; `` I believe the day after to-morrow is fixed upon -- though the time , as all else , should have been left to us , the wheel-horses -- the seconds . 
Circumstances , '' and Mr. Effingham 's lip curled , `` render me somewhat cooler in the quarrel . '' 
`` I have no such desire , sir , '' replied Mr. Effingham , coldly , `` and if my tone is harsh , it is because I am in no humor to answer questions , or converse . 
And the soldier , curling his moustache , and humming a rude song , took his way down the staircase , his huge sword rattling against the banisters , and making with the jingle of his heavily-rowelled spurs , a martial sort of music eloquent of camps . 
Mr. Effingham , gazing moodily after him , observed that he stopped suddenly at the foot of the stairs . 
Then Mr. Effingham heard the important and pompously-uttered words : `` You should have more respect for the clergy , sir . '' 
he said , gloomily : the door was shut , and obedient to a sign from Mr. Effingham , the watermen approached . 
he said , curtly . 
Mr. Effingham looked strangely at the rough watermen , who turned their tarpaulins in their hands , and coughed respectfully behind them . 
he said . 
Mr. Effingham looked at the water-dogs again with the same strange expression . 
he said , motioning to the man to approach . 
`` No ; I wish you to sell yourself to me , '' said Mr. Effingham , with haughty coldness . 
`` And me , too , your honor , '' said mate , in a mumbling voice from behind his thick woollen comfort . 
Mr. Effingham , looking keenly at these men , saw that they were such as could be bought for much less than fifty pistoles . 
Then he was silent . 
A struggle seemed to be going on in his mind -- his brow flushed , then grew pale , and his cheeks were covered with a cold sweat . 
The water-dogs looked at him wonderingly , for his eyes were not a pleasant sight -- they were like lurid lightning . 
`` Wait here , '' he said , suddenly , as he heard a door open and close without . 
And hastily putting on his hat , he went out , closed the door , and crossing the passage , entered the room of Beatrice . 
Beatricehad just come in , and was sitting in front of the fire , gazing sadly and thoughtfully into the blaze , when Mr. Effingham 's entrance caused her to turn round . 
At last Mr. Effingham , pale and gloomy , yet gazing at the young girl with passionate love , said abruptly , and in a low tone -- `` We meet again ; I trust you are well after the ball . '' 
`` You do not ask me how I am , '' he said , with painful earnestness . 
`` You are so cold , '' he said , leaning on the mantelpiece , and gazing at her with fixed , stony eyes . 
`` Ipity you , Mr. Effingham ! '' 
`` Oh , you know what I mean , '' he said . 
The earnest , low-toned voice went to his poor , bruised heart -- her soft , sorrowful face took away all his anger . 
he said , with painful earnestness . 
He looked at her with inexpressible love , and said : `` Did you only know how much I suffer when you suffer ! '' 
`` You were the queenliest of them all , '' he said , gazing on her with passionate love and pride . 
`` Mr. Effingham , I can not be your wife , '' she said . 
`` Mr. Effingham ! '' 
`` Mr. Effingham , you must know '' -- she murmured , suffering painfully -- `` this is obtrusive , sir -- I -- '' `` Oh , do not deny it , madam ! '' 
And Mr. Effingham 's brows grew darker , his eyes flashed with hatred . 
`` Mr. Effingham ! '' 
`` You did not like your escort , I know , '' he replied , bitterly ; `` you were too good for him , as the vulgar expression goes . '' 
`` Mr. Effingham , this is unworthy ! '' 
And , overwhelmed with sour and gloomy emotion , he turned away . 
His words went to her heart , but it was almost her own situation which he painted , and this made her flush and tremble . 
`` Mr. Effingham , you agitate me ! 
`` Mr. Effingham ! '' 
`` Mr. Effingham -- I can not bear this much longer ! '' 
`` Mr. Effingham , I am suffering ! '' 
`` Mr. Effingham , I -- '' `` You spurn my love -- despise me and every thing connected with me -- still scorn me ? 
A quarter of an hour afterwards the boatmen came out and went away ; and in ten minutes Mr. Effingham made his appearance , pale , and covered with perspiration . 
He held in his moist and nervous hand a Bank of England note of large value ; and muttering , `` That , too , can be arranged ! '' 
The interview with her father on the night before , had succeeded the trying ordeal of the ball , and then the interview with Mr. Effingham had crowned all . 
It was Charles Waters , and spite of the cloak , the disguise , he had recognized Beatrice and Mr. Effingham . 
It is young Mr. Effingham ! '' 
`` Him ! '' 
Standing in the bow , with one arm around Beatrice , Mr. Effingham looked on gloomily . 
He knew very well that a deadly encounter was imminent -- this encounter he both desired and dreaded : -- dreaded because Charles Waters was her cousin . 
And Mr. Effingham drew a pistol . 
exclaimed Beatrice , clinging to his arm . 
`` Be easy , madam , '' said Mr. Effingham , gloomily , `` I only meant to try the lock : the sword will settle it . 
And seizing an oar himself , he bent to his task with desperate energy . 
He dreaded the encounter more than he would acknowledge . 
And he raised his hand , to indicate the position of the two vessels . 
The boat darted toward him -- the sides of the small vessels crushed together : Charles Waters and the boatman , armed with their heavy clubs , threw themselves from their own into Mr. Effingham 's craft . 
Mr. Effingham rose overwhelmed with fury . 
His blood boiled with rage -- he was in one of his madnesses of passion . 
He saw only that one sight before him -- Beatrice clasped in the arms of his hated , abhorred rival . 
He only understood that that rival had defeated him , despised him . 
The blood rushed to his head -- he staggered , and drawing his pistol , levelled it at Charles Waters ' breast , and fired . 
Mr. Effingham saw all : he saw his two companions disabled -- he saw himself left alone to contend against his enemies -- he saw that all was lost . 
The sword snapped off in his body within six inches of the hilt -- only the hilt and the stump remained in Mr. Effingham 's hand . 
Mr. Effingham , uttering a wild curse , had thrown himself into the water as Charles Waters fell , and still holding the stump of the bloody sword , had struck out toward the shore . 
Mr. Effingham dismounted and passed his hand over his neck -- the affection of that animal was grateful . 
Suddenly a voice startled him and he turned round . 
It was a negro just risen , and his face expressed the greatest delight at seeing his master back . 
Mr. Effingham gave him his hand -- ordered him to attend to his horse -- and then , scarcely knowing what he did , entered the hall , sombre , and moving slowly . 
He sat down in the library , where a fire had just been kindled , for the squire was accustomed to rise very early : and looking round , took note of all the familiar household objects , which he had not seen for so long -- years , it seemed to him . 
The old gentleman 's pride was all broken in his heart , by the sight of his long lost son ; and he would have grasped his hand hard : but Mr. Effingham drew back . 
`` No sir , '' he said , hoarsely , `` do not touch that hand : there is blood on it ! '' 
The squire could not reply : `` I have committed a murder , sir , '' continued Mr. Effingham , -- `` see , my sword is still bloody , I believe -- '' And drawing from the scabbard the stump of the weapon , on which some drops of clotted blood still hung , he threw it on the floor before the old man . 
`` The middle age is past , '' said Mr. Effingham , with the same sombre calmness ; `` we can not drop the portcullis , and from our castle bid defiance to all foes . '' 
Mr. Effingham sat down again with the same stony calmness : -- that calmness would not have pleased a physician . 
Mr. Effingham removed the arms , and rose : -- she shrunk back , frightened at his expression -- it was terrible . 
He was silent . 
`` I can not talk to you now -- I can not kiss you -- I am not angry with you -- '' he said . 
And muttering to himself , he went his way to the chamber , which he had occupied before leaving the hall , and disappeared at the turn of the great staircase from Kate 's eyes . 
The squire shut himself up in his library , and only once came out to ascend to Mr. Effingham 's chamber . 
The Captain had come to take Mr. Effingham 's life in return for his brother 's -- simply and purely -- and he would have `` left a challenge , '' had the squire not made him change his mind . 
The night drew on cold and gloomy , and Mr. Effingham was to set out for York soon after midnight . 
He and the squire sat up talking , for neither could sleep . 
Mr. Effingham then wrapped himself in his cloak ; buckled on a new sword , calmly , and went out . 
As he entered the passage he was approached by a small figure clad in white . 
The hard heart was overcome : he stooped down and took the child in his arms , and pressing her to his breast , two large bitter tears rolled down his pale thin cheeks . 
Then hastily kissing her , he again wrapped his cloak around him and passed on . 
In fifteen minutes he was in the saddle . 
This was the sound which greeted Mr. Effingham as he turned his back upon the Hall , and rode forth into the cold , gloomy night . 
`` In the history of my respected ancestor , Champ Effingham , Esq. , I think I discern something which reminds me of an Eastern fable I have met with . 
`` My worthy ancestor , Mr. Effingham , seems to have afforded proof that this fable is not wholly fanciful . 
His passions were so strong that he was led by them to the commission of actions which he often regarded with wondering disgust in after years : -- that infatuated young man whose acts he recollected , scarcely seemed to be himself . 
`` Mr. Effingham was a true descendant of the man tempted by the fiend , and filled with passion . 
The Captain is resplendent in the fine military suit which we have seen Mr. Effingham dressed in , and his long sword lies by him on a settee . 
His moustaches are longer and blacker than ever ; his eye more laughing , his voice louder , his `` parbleus ! '' 
more emphatic , as he explains the diagram of the battle of Rosbach to the boatman . 
Hallam , Shylock , Shallow , Mr. Effingham -- all these had passed from Beatrice 's horizon , leaving it bright and calm : and in the fresh sunshine now she saw alone the figures of her kind uncle , and her tender Charles , and jovial honest Captain Ralph , and Townes , and Lanky -- all smiling on her , full of love for her . 
The old mansion looked much the same as it did on that day , when in company with Mr. Champ Effingham , we first entered its wide hall ; and the soft leaves of spring began to rustle around the gables , and throw their delicate and restless shadows on the ancient walls . 
`` I have not the pleasure of Effingham Hall 's acquaintance , '' said the Captain , coldly , `` though I remember going there one day , to challenge Mr. Effingham , Jr. '' `` A challenge , sir ! '' 
Mr. Effingham , Jr. , aforesaid , ran his toasting iron through my brother 's shoulder , and as there was a little affair already nearly hatched between them , I thought it my duty to take Charley 's place . '' 
The new comer was Mr. Champ Effingham . 
Mr. Effingham was much changed : -- his face was thinner , and had more character in it ; his costume was more subdued and in much better taste , though it was as rich as ever ; and his whole air and carriage was much more calm and collected , than it had ever been before . 
Mr. Effingham looked like a man who had exhausted all stormy emotions and become calm again : -- not so much the calmness of satisfied desires , as the slumber of discordant emotions . 
The reader may imagine from these few words of hasty description , that this man , a portion of whose wild career we have attempted to delineate , had lost that conspicuous grace and fire , which formerly drew all eyes toward him : -- that he had grown old , as a young man does , by wild courses and extraordinary dissipation : -- that Mr. Effingham had no longer any marked characteristic , at least pleasant characteristic . 
He was plainly a man of far more character than ever -- a finer cavalier , every way stronger , so to speak , than before . 
The slight stoop in his shoulders , which betrayed the intense thinker , gave to his figure a singular nobleness of outline ; his sword was worn with a grace very unlike his old petit maître habit ; his broad brow , no longer disfigured with a wig , rose above the thoughtful eyes like a tower : his costume , as we have said , was rich but simple ; and to sum up all in one word , Mr. Effingham looked like a man who had suffered and grown harder , and as a consequence of that suffering and new strength , left behind many of his youthful follies : -- and so , achieved , if not happiness , at least calmness . 
Mr. Effingham raised his hand , and with great calmness -- though a slight flush rose to his cheek , as he spoke -- said : `` Would you be good enough to give me a moment of your time , Captain Waters ? 
The soldier tightened his rein , and waited in silence for his companion to speak . 
`` This is a meeting which I have long desired , sir , '' continued Mr. Effingham , stroking the mane of his horse . 
The soldier inclined his head coldly , without speaking . 
`` I can easily understand that my face is not agreeable to you , sir , '' continued Mr. Effingham , in the same courteous and placid tones which had characterized the first words addressed to the soldier . 
`` I have no desire to insult you , Mr. Effingham , '' he said ; `` we are nothing to each other , and , morbleu ! 
`` Well , sir , for that I thank you , '' said Mr. Effingham , as calmly and courteously as before ; `` and now , sir , let me say what I have desired to utter , in the hearing of your family , for a long time . 
Well , sir , '' continued Mr. Effingham , whose voice for a moment had changed singularly -- `` Well , sir , it was the old tale : he loved her -- devotedly , passionately , madly : so madly that he even now doubts whether it was not a species of madness , that strange , wild infatuation ! 
Mr. Effingham paused for a moment : again stroked the mane of his horse , and went on calmly . 
`` He went to her and threw away his bitterness , '' continued Mr. Effingham , calmly , `` his scoffs , his taunts . 
`` After that the victim of infatuation -- of madness , I may nearly say , '' Mr. Effingham went on , calmly , `` left the country , and went into foreign lands , with blood upon his hands , he thought . 
`` This is what I had to say , Captain Waters , '' added Mr. Effingham , calmly and courteously , as before , `` I have said it , and am content that you shall fold your arms in your cloak , and refuse to touch my hand . 
And Captain Waters forgetting completely all his enmity , shook Mr. Effingham 's hand cordially . 
`` You afford me a pleasure , which I have not experienced often in my life , '' said Mr. Effingham , with noble simplicity . 
asked Mr. Effingham , with a slight shadow upon his brow . 
And his eyes seemed to be fixed upon that past , which had gone from him like a wild dream . 
He could scarcely realize that those fiery passions had burned in his bosom . 
`` I hope , Captain Waters , that we shall meet frequently , '' said Mr. Effingham , at length ; `` I must leave you now , as I have just arrived in Virginia . 
And bowing with the same calm air as before , Mr. Effingham continued his way toward the Hall , while Captain Ralph went in the opposite direction . 
This leads the squire to descant at length , and in a tone of indignant reprehension , upon the course of the defendant in a certain chancery suit , by the style of `` Effingham et al. . 
`` Mr. Effingham is coming back ? '' 
`` God has already granted that , sir , '' says Mr. Effingham . 
And amid a burst of exclamations , he enters the apartment . 
We need not describe the scene which followed the entrance of Mr. Effingham : -- how the squire did little more than press his hand , and gaze delighted on his face : -- how Clare tried in vain to still her agitated and throbbing heart : -- how the rest of the group overwhelmed the young man with a thousand congratulations . 
Yes , Mr. Champ , after all his weary wanderings , had returned to his good old home . 
Mr. Effingham was standing before the fire-place in the dining-room , amusing himself by gazing through the window , at the cloud shadows . 
`` I 'm glad to see your familiar face , Hamilton , '' said Mr. Effingham , `` and I do not think you have changed in the least . '' 
Mr. Effingham looked out of the window . 
`` Are all the boys well ? '' 
It has its drawbacks , '' replied his friend . 
asked Mr. Effingham , with his habitual faint smile lighting up his calm , weary face , at the mortified tones of his friend . 
`` I have nothing to tell about my travels , '' said Mr. Effingham , wearily , and gazing as before at the cloud shadows floating over the fields . 
`` They are right , '' said Effingham , with a slight color in his wan cheek , `` it is an infamous measure -- and I saw the whole affair in London ; it will be passed . '' 
Mr. Effingham raised his eyes , making no reply . 
Suddenly Mr. Effingham held out his hand , and said : `` Well , Hamilton , if we must touch upon that subject -- if I speak of it -- I know of no man better than yourself . 
`` I was never very bright , '' said Mr. Effingham ; `` but can you not understand that there is in my case , to be estimated and allowed for , a great force , an enormous motor ? '' 
said Mr. Effingham , calmly . 
Mr. Effingham paused for some moments , looking calmly through the window . 
`` Those clouds are very fine , '' he said , `` and the shadows are beautiful . '' 
Then he added : `` But I was going to speak of myself . 
`` Well , Hamilton , '' continued Mr. Effingham , as calmly as before , `` you are a good friend , and I need not play the reserved with you , though I assure you I feel no disposition to dissect my own heart . 
And after a pause of several minutes Mr. Effingham continued : `` You will no doubt recollect the affair which created so much agreeable comment in this neighborhood , a year or two ago : -- an affair which , commencing like a comedy , came near ending a tragedy for all the actors , among whom I held , I believe , a distinguished rank . 
`` But in relation to that young girl who exerted so powerful an influence upon my life , '' continued Mr. Effingham , `` let me say two or three words . 
And , after a pause , Mr. Effingham continued , with perfect calmness , -- `` She was one of those rare and extraordinary natures , who unite the most opposing and incompatible traits of character in one harmonious whole . 
Mr. Effingham looked out of the window at the cloud shadows again , and paused for some time . 
`` Well , '' he continued , at length , `` after that denouement I went away , you know , and you now ask me to give you some account of my travels . 
At length , looking curiously at Mr. Effingham , who , stretched languidly in his chair , was gazing listlessly through the window , the honest fellow said suddenly , with some embarrassment : `` Champ , have you seen Clare Lee yet ? '' 
Mr. Effingham looked intently at his friend for an instant , and then turning away his eyes again , said , indifferently : `` Yes . '' 
Mr. Effingham came to his relief . 
`` I know what you mean , '' he said , calmly ; `` and I will answer the question which you have not asked -- but you have looked it . 
I do not say that the sight of Clare , '' continued Mr. Effingham , in a slightly altered tone , `` did not afford me a certain degree of pleasure and pain . 
And Mr. Effingham , for a moment , looked less weary . 
Mr. Effingham came to his assistance . 
`` You are puzzling yourself , '' he said , with a languid smile , `` to make out what I am , Hamilton . 
And Mr. Effingham gazed at the fire as calmly as he had spoken . 
Mr. Effingham nodded . 
I understand you now ; '' he said , `` my mind you fancy , is not healthy . '' 
`` Very well , '' said Mr. Effingham . 
said Mr. Effingham , smiling faintly at the honest fellow 's earnestness ; `` is that what you meant to say ? '' 
`` You would have an awful indigestion , '' replied Mr. Effingham ; `` but let me hear your scheme . '' 
`` Jack , you are the best friend I have , upon my honor , I think , '' said Mr. Effingham . 
`` No , I must go , '' said Hamilton , shaking hands with his friend , and putting on his hat . 
`` There goes a happy man , and an honest fellow , '' said Mr. Effingham , going languidly into the library ; `` an intelligent mind too . 
Mr. Effingham took his hat and cane , and strolled out on the lawn . 
`` Very pretty , and very wearisome ! '' 
And he turned away . 
Justas Mr. Effingham turned to enter the Hall again , weary already of the lovely afternoon , spite of its azure skies , and singing birds , and pleasant breezes rustling the leaves , and the small brilliant flowers scattered over the lawn , he heard a merry child 's voice calling him , from the banks of the little stream which gurgled over its mossy rocks , at the foot of the hill . 
He looked round , and saw Kate , who was running towards him , making signs to him . 
she cried , enthusiastically , as she grasped his hand and turned her bright little face with its sparkling eyes and laughing lips up to him ; `` just come and see how pretty I have made Snowdrop , please ! '' 
Mr. Effingham smiled , and allowed himself to be led down the hill toward the stream . 
`` Are those the ribbons I gave you , '' asked Mr. Effingham , smiling , `` brought all the way , with the rest of your presents , in my trunk from London ? '' 
Mr. Effingham smiled again . 
`` I have done with all those vanities , '' he said , `` and I shall be very plain at the party , which it seems they are bent on . '' 
`` You must teach her to converse , '' said Mr. Effingham . 
Mr. Effingham smiled again . 
`` Tell her goodbye , and let us go in , and look at the new book of engravings , '' he said . 
They approached and entered the Hall , and Mr. Effingham took from the book-case in the library , the book of pictures . 
The man and the child amused themselves over it for some time , Kate sitting in his lap , as was habitual with her . 
Kate laid her head on Mr. Effingham 's shoulder , and sang in a low tone , thoughtfully . 
Mr. Effingham gazed for some moments quietly into the little face , and said : `` What is that you 're singing , Kate ? '' 
And Kate sang , in her small child 's voice , and with great sweetness : The tender little voice ended its sweet carol , and for some time Mr. Effingham was quite silent , caressing , absently , the child 's small hand , which lay in his own . 
`` That is a very pretty song , Kate , '' he said at length ; and in an abstracted voice he repeated : ` When the flower is in the bud and the leaf upon the tree , The lark shall sing me home in my own countrie . ' 
`` That might apply to me , '' he added , smiling , `` you know that I have come back just as the larks are beginning to sing . '' 
Come , tell me , '' he asked smiling . 
`` That 's because you are such a poor little creature , not much higher than my thumb , '' said Mr. Effingham , forgetting his weariness , and smiling . 
said Mr. Effingham , `` why I am the picture of health . '' 
Mr. Effingham made no reply . 
`` But what do you grieve about ? '' 
`` Yes , '' said Mr. Effingham . 
Mr. Effingham smoothed the bright little head in silence . 
`` You do n't know how delighted I was , when your letter came , '' continued Kate , laying her cheek on Mr. Effingham 's shoulder . 
`` Were you ? '' 
`` Am I pale ? '' 
These words were so perfect an echo to what Mr. Effingham had said of himself a little while before , that he was struck . 
`` But , suppose I do not care for any thing ? '' 
Mr. Effingham was silent . 
For a moment a cloud passed over Mr. Effingham 's face , as he recalled those past scenes , which the child with the thoughtlessness of youth had apparently forgotten . 
This cloud soon passed away however , and he said : `` You dropped it somewhere , and some honest person found it . 
Mr. Effingham passed his hand over her hair , softly . 
`` That was our duty , '' he said , `` you are our blood , and besides , '' he added , smiling , `` you are not so poor , Katy : you are quite a little heiress . '' 
The child 's face wore such a simple , tender look , at the moment , that Mr. Effingham turned his eyes from it , to a portrait over the fire-place , which wore an expression strikingly similiar . 
`` You are very much like my mother , Katy , '' he said , softly , `` you know your father and mine married cousins . '' 
Mr. Effingham looked at the child again , and felt his heart much softened . 
`` You are a good little creature , Kate , '' he said , `` and I think it does not hurt me to talk to you . 
Kateand Mr. Effingham reached and passed through the old gate , and determined to extend their walk to a knoll , two or three hundred yards beyond the little stream which crossed the road . 
Mr. Effingham smiled , and said : `` Well , madam , you chose to precede me . 
`` Look , Katy , '' said Mr. Effingham , `` that is as pretty a sight as you could find if you were to travel a thousand miles . '' 
cried Kate , leaning her head against his shoulder , and gazing at the landscape with her large bright eyes ; `` and look at the clouds ! '' 
asked Mr. Effingham , with a faint smile . 
`` It is Captain Ralph Waters , '' said Mr. Effingham , calmly , `` let us go and meet them . '' 
Mr. Effingham bowed : and then turning to Captain Ralph , said in his calm , courteous voice : `` I am glad to see you again , sir : give you good evening . '' 
Mr. Effingham , who had crossed the brook , smiled , and opening the door of the chariot , entered it . 
`` Now , Katy , you may be at rest , '' he said , `` I am very well here , and you shall have your ride . '' 
While the Captain and Henrietta converse upon one side of the room , Mr. Effingham sits languidly looking out of the window near Miss Alethea upon the other : Kate and Will are holding an animated dialogue by the harpsichord ; and the squire is in the distance exchanging compliments with the parson of the parish , who made his appearance at the Hall soon after the entrance of the party . 
`` It is not customary for persons of my profession , Mr. Effingham , to throw down defiances . 
Let us , however , leave the worthy gentlemen , and pass on to the harpsichord , not pausing to hear Miss Alethea inform Mr. Effingham that Clare had a headache , and could not come , or to listen to her companion 's weary and languid discourse . 
Onemorning , a few days after the scenes we have just related , Mr. Effingham received a note couched in the following terms : `` Come over to ` the Trap , ' and dine and sleep with me . 
For a moment Mr. Effingham was determined not to go , and ordered the servant who brought the note to be directed to wait . 
The servant from the Trap had departed however , and Mr. Effingham finally determined to embrace his friend 's invitation . 
`` Why annoy the honest fellow ? '' 
And Mr. Effingham dismissed the subject from his mind , returning it seemed to some vague train of thought that had possession of his mind . 
Sitting before the slight fire of crackling twigs , with his feet upon the old grotesque and-irons , he gazed into the coals : -- then upon the old portrait high upon the carved wainscot -- then through the window on the breezy lawn , covered with flowers which bowed their heads as the wind passed over them . 
`` I believe in blood , '' said Mr. Effingham , musingly . 
There now is old Harry Effingham , in his armor -- he fought at Agincourt , they say , and did good service with his stout arm . 
`` Ned , have the piebald , Tom , saddled , and brought round , '' said Mr. Effingham . 
The servant retired , and Mr. Effingham fell into another fit of thought , from which he was roused by the intelligence that his horse was ready . 
`` I suppose I may be allowed to disregard the caution about dress , '' he said to himself . 
`` Bring my boots and spurs , '' he added , to the servant . 
He was soon on his way , and before long , reached the Trap . 
An old white-haired negro came , with the well-bred courtesy of the Virginia family servant , to take Mr. Effingham 's horse , and he entered . 
Here Mr. Effingham found half-a-dozen gentlemen from the neighborhood , all his acquaintances . 
They received him with the cordial frankness of boon companions , and after a few questions about his travels , commenced again conversing , at the top of their voices , on hunting , plantation matters , politics -- especially upon politics . 
Afterwards a cloud of smoke , from as many tobacco pipes as there were men , Mr. Effingham excepted , and then politics more ferociously than ever . 
Mr. Effingham has long since heard that the object of the gathering is nothing less than a real bona fidefox-hunt , spite of the lateness of the season , and the smile which has greeted this transparent device of the worthy Jack Hamilton , has yielded to apathy again . 
Mr. Effingham will ride after the hounds -- it is not worse than idleness . 
Mr. Effingham rides more madly than them all . 
Mr. Effingham 's habit was to sleep late in the morning ; here he was scouring the cold , fresh , shivering , dewy fields , before sunrise , following the music of the dogs , and whirling over fences , ditches , and hollows . 
Mr. Effingham positively found himself laughing . 
Mr. Effingham , Captain Ralph , and Jack Hamilton , took their way back together ; calculating the distance they had ridden between twenty and thirty miles , perhaps more . 
Mr. Effingham was not at all weary , and said he never felt better . 
To this , Mr. Hamilton and the Captain consented at once , but Mr. Effingham at first demurred . 
Mr. Effingham gave his friend a strange look , sighed languidly , and entered with them . 
How it was , Mr. Effingham did not know , but Jack Hamilton persuaded him to stay , and return with him , and whenever he intimated to his friend a desire to go , the intimation was received with a look which seemed to say , `` Do n't hurry , my dear fellow ; just let me finish this anecdote to Miss Clare , and I 'm with you ; '' or , `` Let us hear Miss Henrietta finish that rattling song which the Captain has worried her into singing ; '' or , `` Just let me refute these ideas of Mr. Lee , on the mode of curing tobacco . '' 
And so evening drew on , and Mr. Effingham , to his own astonishment , did not feel very unhappy . 
Thereupon Miss Henrietta , in great ill-humor , turned her back upon him , and began to talk with Mr. Effingham ; and not to be exceeded in civility , the Captain turned his back too , and began to converse , very cheerfully , with Clare and Mr. Hamilton . 
Clare , as we may imagine , supported with difficulty this long interview with Mr. Effingham . 
He had not addressed more than half a dozen words to her , and these had been characterized by a calm reserve ; but once or twice their eyes furtively met , and they saw plainly that each was watching the other . 
Clare seemed uneasy at his presence . 
Mr. Effingham felt his heart stir , in the young girl 's presence -- a nameless charm seemed to envelope her -- but he kept his resolution to avoid engaging in any conversation which could bring on any allusion to former times and events . 
This was not difficult , for Mr. Hamilton engrossed much of Clare 's attention , and she seemed to seek in his society a refuge from that of Mr. Effingham . 
He commented inwardly on her evident partiality for his friend , trying to say calmly to himself that he would make her an excellent husband . 
Perhaps the gloom upon his brow grew somewhat deeper , when the innocent girl smiled upon Hamilton so kindly and sweetly , but he controlled his feelings . 
As she rose , they exchanged a long look ; and Mr. Effingham turned away . 
Her look had said : `` Do not avoid me thus , because we have both been unhappy and unfortunate ; because our relations are changed , forget , as I do . '' 
Mr. Effingham , when he departed , merely bowed . 
He looked at her again , with his old dreamy gaze , and went away with his companions . 
As he went to his chamber that night , he murmured : `` Well , I was mistaken ; some of the old feeling , for a wonder , still remains , surviving the storm . 
And his head sank as he spoke . 
Then the well-instructed musicians , led by Mr. William Booker , colored gentleman , violinist and appendage to the glebe of Effingham , struck up a minuet , and the furbelows and silk stockings bowed and curtsied with ambling swaying movement , with cocked hats pressed upon the heart , and fans expanded , and then closed again , and many an unguarded heart was taken captive , and many silk stockings accompanied as many furbelows through the dance of life thereafter , fascinated with each other in that dance of pleasure . 
Clare danced with Mr. Hamilton , while Mr. Effingham looked on and sighed ; lastly , Kate danced with the noble Earl of Dorset , whose brilliant verses we have listened to upon a similar occasion , at the metropolitan city of Williamsburg , and the fresh , frank face of the child pleased all , and made all love her . 
The consequence was -- heads being much the same then as they are at present -- that more than one of the gallants present on the occasion found themselves elated to the pitch of noisy merriment , and the Effingham woods echoed back their shouts and songs for leagues . 
Mr. Effingham assisted Clare to enter the Riverhead chariot , with grave softness and courtesy : pressing Hamilton 's hand with friendly warmth ; and so the carriage rolled away , and Mr. Effingham 's heart went with it . 
As he entered his chamber , he murmured as before , `` The storm has passed , but all of the old feeling is not dead : -- beware ! '' 
and , sleeping with his pale face illumined by the broad full moon , he dreamed of her , and saw her glide before p520-463 him with veiled brows and tender eyes and open arms . 
And when he tried to clasp her to his heart she vanished . 
A shadow crossed the sleeper 's forehead , and his hand stole to his brow . 
Then his face grew serene again -- the brow clear and soft . 
Captain Effingham thereupon marshals his soldiers , using a piece of fence rail for a sword ; and , mounted on a stump , makes them a patriotic address -- this time uninterrupted -- wherein he repeats his father 's views upon the Stamp Act , which he believes to be a measure whereby the heads of everybody in the Colony of Virginia are to be chopped off . 
He denounces it , therefore , and calls on his companions to organize an opposition to the tyrant ; and concludes with the observation that there is for himself but one alternative -- either victory or death ! 
I shall proceed now to speak of my respected ancestor Champ Effingham , Esq. , and hisfeelings briefly . 
This was quite out of the question in the present instance with Mr. Effingham , and to avoid all disagreeable scenes , he resolved to continue in Virginia the resolution he had adopted on the Continent ; here as there , he would avoid all women . 
In like manner , Mr. Effingham could not go and smile , and caracole , and laugh at the joyous festival ; it was too diametrically opposed to his feelings . 
We shall perceive more clearly what those feelings were by entering the Hall on the evening succeeding the races , ascending the broad pine stairs , and going into Mr. Effingham 's room . 
Mr. Effingham looked even paler than usual , and his eyelids drooped , the dusky lashes reposing on his wan cheek . 
His hair , free from powder , and hanging down upon his shoulders , was brilliantly illuminated by the rosy ray , and the single diamond upon his white hand glittered . 
That hand hung listlessly , the arm reposing upon the red damask cushion , and the other hand supported his cheek . 
As he mused , gazing at the bright flood of sunlight , a faint smile , like the reflection of the moon in water , dwelt upon his pale lips and in his weary eyes . 
`` Surely I have suffered much in my life , '' he said , in a low voice , with another weary sigh . 
she loved me then , '' he continued in a murmur ; `` that is my pride and happiness , my quiet joy now in these weary days , when life seems wholly exhausted for me -- happiness gone past never to come back . 
It sees but one object in the world -- wants not the money or the station , asks but the heart ! '' 
`` Then , in the after days , when I came back from Europe , '' he continued , sadly , `` I loved her just as before -- but did not find her fill so completely my whole heavens . 
Especially that fiery planet which whirled through its brief orbit and so narrowly escaped being quenched in blood ! '' 
He looked gloomy for a moment : but very soon the old sad , weary smile came back as his eyes were raised to a book-case in the corner . 
On this bookcase stood two statues : and by these statues lay some withered flowers . 
He rose , took down the withered nosegay , and sat down again in the same listless way . 
He looked at them sadly , and placed them against his cheek with a forlorn smile . 
`` She gave them to me one afternoon when we were walking hand in hand in the old garden , '' he murmured , wistfully , `` and I told her they were not half so fresh and bright and purely beautiful as her face . 
Poor sword ! '' 
he continued , sadly , looking at his weapon lying on the table , `` you and your master have lost edge : you rust wofully . 
That master is no longer the gay and laughing cavalier whispering to ladies , and met every where with smiles -- the proud heir of Effingham , living his life with nothing any where but those welcome smiles : -- like these poor flowers he has withered ; his freshness is gone . '' 
A low voice singing came from the next room , and Mr. Effingham recognized Kate 's accents . 
`` Yes , they are gone , '' said Mr. Effingham , his head drooping : `` yes ! 
The tender voice of the child came from the adjoining room , and the fresh , pure accents pleased and quieted him : he smiled faintly . 
`` No , I believe my heart is not wholly withered , '' he murmured , `` like my hopes . '' 
And reclining in the tall carved chair , his sad eyes wandered to the sunset , waning slowly over the great forest with a pomp of golden clouds . 
His face was bathed in the rich rosy light , and his calm eye gazed steadily upon the bloodred orb . 
Mr. Effingham smiled , and was pleased to hear the fresh , merry voice . 
`` The little chirper , '' he said , `` merry as usual ! '' 
Mr. Effingham , p520-507 leaning his arm on the mantelpiece , said , `` Come in , Kate ! '' 
and his voice was much less sad . 
And the child put her arm round his waist , and drew him toward the door . 
There was no resisting her entreaties , and Mr. Effingham soon prepared himself for the walk . 
And Kate burst out joyfully singing : -- Mr. Effingham gazed at the child smiling , and said : `` I know who is my lark , and I 'm glad I am home in my own country to hear the songs she sings . '' 
When Mr. Effingham entered , he found that his friend was engaged in that forlorn and desperate undertaking -- arguing with one of the opposite sex . 
`` I am in a bad way here , friend Effingham . 
`` I am glad to see you , Jack , '' replied Mr. Effingham , suppressing by an effort the painful emotion caused by the sight of his rival ; `` how did I miss seeing you when you rode up ? '' 
said Mr. Effingham , coldly ; but immediately suppressing this exhibition of feeling , he added , calmly , `` present my best respects to the family . '' 
`` Yes , sir , '' said Mr. Effingham , austerely : and he picked up a book to conceal his emotion . 
Then conscious that this tone was a great injustice to his friend , he said , `` I am rather unwell to-day -- I hope you are as hearty as ever , Hamilton . '' 
We had a glorious -- '' Suddenly the seigneur paused : he saw the eye of Miss Alethea fixed on him , and suppressed the remainder of his sentence with a sheepish look . 
`` I am going over to carry Miss Clare these gloves , '' he added . 
asked Mr. Effingham , not to have his painful silence observed . 
said Mr. Effingham . 
Miss Alethea drew herself up : Mr. Effingham 's face flushed . 
`` I really think I am becoming a lady 's man , '' he said . 
`` A good resolution , '' said Mr. Effingham , looking away . 
Mr. Effingham looked at his sister , but suppressed his irritated feeling . 
`` I am not very well , '' he added , `` please say as much . '' 
This speech was so plain that Mr. Effingham felt a pang shoot through his breast : he said nothing . 
`` They were talking about your neighborly behavior , '' continued his friend , coolly , `` and Clare -- Miss Clare , I mean -- said that you had scarcely been near them since your return from Europe . 
Mr. Effingham replied : `` I do not dislike Captain Waters -- we are good friends . '' 
Mr. Effingham replied by the same look which had greeted a similar question from Miss Alethea . 
And the same suppression of his irritability ensued . 
`` I stay away because I visit nowhere , '' he said . 
This quiet assumption that Clare could not be the source of fear from her peculiar relations towards himself -- Mr. Hamilton -- produced a painful effect upon Mr. Effingham . 
He began to feel some rising indignation , too , at these banterings from a man who had asked him with a twinkle in his eye , in a former interview , `` if he had seen Clare ? '' 
Mr. Effingham turned his head aside , and his breast heaved : -- his cheek grew paler . 
Then he conquered this emotion , so painful and trying : and turning to his friend , said , as he offered his hand : `` You are right , Hamilton , I will go to-morrow ! '' 
And his head sank . 
Whenthe Hall chariot drove up to the residence of Mr. Lee on the succeeding day , it contained -- in addition to the squire , Miss Alethea and Kate -- Mr. Effingham . 
He was perfectly calm , though a little paler than usual , and greeted the ladies with calm and proud courtesy . 
Mr. Effingham and Clare had walked out into the garden : the Captain , before issuing forth also with Miss Alethea and Henrietta , passed a few moments conversing with Kate , who sat by him on the sofa , the object of Willie 's devoted regards . 
Clareand Mr. Effingham , as we have said , had gone into the garden . 
He had quietly taken her hand in his with a calm and mild look in his shadowy eyes , placed the hand on his arm and led her into the old garden , where they both had played in childhood , and talked merrily in the old days , whose every flower bed , and row of trim box , and towering tree , was old and familiar and dear . 
And she had followed him with some slight agitation , but a soft look of maiden diffidence , which made her more beautiful than he had ever seen her look before . 
The perfumed breezes , laden with the odors of a million early flowers , came softly from the far south ; the oriole hung on the poplar spray , and sung his soul away for joy ; the leaves , and buds , and flowers , had all the tender velvety softness of the early spring ; and over all the great sun poured the fresh crimson light of morning . 
Mr. Effingham walked on for some time in silence . 
Then , pausing in a grassy nook , he pointed , with a mild glance at the young girl , to two trees which grew side by side . 
`` How long ago it seems ! '' 
`` And now we are grown-up people , '' said Mr. Effingham . 
`` I have come very often , '' she said , in the same low tone . 
He looked at her for a moment : and not a trait of the soft , tender face , the mild , dewy eyes , the innocent , artless lips , escaped him . 
She stood before him the loving ideal of his dreams ; the memory he had summoned in that evening musing ; the child-enchantress of his youth , who ever stood before his mind 's eye , holding out her arms to him , her brow wreathed round with flowers , her eyes and lips murmuring , `` Come ! '' 
He felt what he was losing , a contraction of his pale brow proved it , and the hand he laid upon his heart . 
But these exhibitions of emotion soon passed away , and his face regained the calm sadness which habitually characterized it . 
`` When I asked , '' he said mildly , `` if you had kept that child resolution to come and look at these trees every day , I did not mean a reproach . 
It will make me happier , and I can not lose the occasion to make my lot somewhat brighter . '' 
Well ! '' 
He paused again , and looked at the two trees thoughtfully : his brow was slightly overshadowed . 
`` Well , '' he continued , mildly still , `` I went to Europe , that changed my life , and made me lose sight of my innocent star . 
I have done with feeling , I shall never love again . '' 
He stopped ; his bosom heaved : he went on . 
And placing her hand upon his arm , he led the trembling , blushing , weeping girl away , and to the house . 
He was outwardly calm , and all the way back to the Hall he remained quiet and silent . 
It was the silence of despair ; that scene had overcome him , and his heart was faint . 
The sentiments of the worthy gentleman are very well in their way , but we may be permitted to doubt the propriety of prefacing with such grave reflections , an excursion of the Cornstalk regiment into the Effingham woods , for the purpose of holding therein a picnic . 
In the midst of this speech , he had found the attention of his auditors grow distracted : and then Captain Effingham had perceived , at a glance , the cause of this movement . 
Have you not observed Mr. Effingham 's attentions ? '' 
`` Mr. Effingham ! '' 
`` Effingham is her cousin , and you know cousins are proverbially dangerous . '' 
`` Effingham ! '' 
't is too bad , '' said the soldier ; `` I thought Effingham was remarkable for staying away from the house . '' 
He was not mistaken ; seated languidly by the window he saw Mr. Effingham . 
Mr. Effingham was looking out of the window , and so profound was his gloomy reverie , that he was not aware of the entrance of his visitor . 
His brow was even paler than usual -- his lips were more weary -- his head drooped , and his eyes were half closed and full of shadow . 
His posture , too , was very indicative of his mood ; it betrayed languor , indifference , utter prostration of spirits . 
Mr. Effingham was not aroused from his gloomy and absorbing thought until the fox-hunter laid his hand upon his shoulder . 
`` Why Champ , '' he cried , `` thinking eternally ? 
Mr. Effingham shrunk from the hand , and replied coldly : `` I am not very well . '' 
`` No , it is not , '' said Mr. Effingham . 
`` Well , '' replied Mr. Effingham , in the same cold and calm voice , full of constraint , `` have it as you will . '' 
Mr. Effingham made no reply , gazing out of the window again . 
said Mr , Effingham . 
said Mr. Effingham , with the same cold and constrained air . 
And Mr. Hamilton burst into a roar of laughter , which did not relax Mr. Effingham 's face , however , in the remotest degree . 
repeated Mr. Effingham , like an icicle . 
`` I am not fond of politics , '' said Mr. Effingham , more and more coldly : he was about to add a `` sir '' to his sentence , but refrained . 
`` Of quiet , '' said Mr. Effingham , in a freezing tone . 
Mr. Effingham inclined his head coldly , making no reply . 
`` It do n't follow , however , that you need engage in them when you visit Mr. Lee , '' continued his visitor ; `` a man is always at liberty to escape to the ladies . '' 
Mr. Effingham was silent . 
Mr. Effingham continued still silent , but his breast heaved . 
Mr. Effingham turned away his head , and his brow darkened . 
`` Clare is a woman out of a thousand , '' continued his visitor , `` just the girl for a jolly fellow , not too soft and lackadaisical , but quite soft enough to smooth down those bachelor asperities which interfere with a fellow 's standing in society . 
He did not observe Mr. Effingham 's frown . 
Mr. Effingham 's eye flashed . 
`` Of course I do n't speak of Clare : by the bye , you used to pay her some attention -- '' He did not observe the flush rising in the cheek . 
Mr. Hamilton was treading upon dangerous ground : Mr. Effingham was losing his self-control rapidly , as his heaving breast , and eyes filling slowly with a lurid fire , plainly indicated . 
you are pale , Effingham ! 
Mr. Effingham was indeed pale , but this pallor sprung from rage : every word that Hamilton uttered was another dagger plunged into his heart , and these were poisoned daggers -- poisoned with contemptuous coolness . 
Mr. Effingham rose to his feet , and said haughtily , and with flashing eyes , `` Mr. Hamilton , be good enough to shape your discourse in such a manner , that I may not be compelled to insult you in my own house ! '' 
It was impossible to describe the passionate emotion with which these words were uttered ; Mr. Effingham looked dangerous ; his eyes flashed ; his lip writhed ; his haughty brow was covered with perspiration ; and his teeth were clenched . 
As he uttered the last words , he surveyed Hamilton with one of those haughty glances , which seem like flashes of fire , and for a moment hesitated whether he should add any thing to what he had uttered . 
The struggle was brief ; he restrained himself , and bowing with cold dignity , he left the room . 
The chariot contained the whole family from the Hall , who looked very calm and happy , with the exception of Mr. Effingham , whose face was unusually pale , and all entered the old church and devoutly knelt . 
Mr. Effingham leaned against the trunk of the great elm , pale , haughty , and only half returning the bows made to him . 
Once , however , he did rise suddenly erect and make a proud and ceremonious inclination of his head : -- Mr. Hamilton had bowed to him in passing . 
And , in Mr. Effingham 's case , this , as we know , was not very far from the fact ; -- he had defied society for a woman , carried that woman off , and done many other things which much better suited heroes of poetry or opera grandees , than a plain Virginia citizen ; -- and now we see in his face the ravages of that wild , passionate character , so dangerous when aroused . 
Mr. Effingham saw a form that made him tremble pass before him . 
His hand for a moment sustained the white arm , covered only with a diaphanous lace , as he assisted her into the chariot , he knew not how . 
A shadowy mist seemed to envelope all from which a pair of soft blue eyes , and a young girl 's blushing cheeks emerged -- and then the four horses were whipped up , he heard distinctly the crack of the lash , and the vision disappeared . 
The smiling one was Mr. Hamilton , who was talking through the window to Clare , and looking back occasionally at Mr. Effingham , who ground his teeth . 
The gloomy cavalier was Captain Ralph , who had caught a smile directed by Henrietta towards Mr. Effingham , and totally unseen by that gentleman . 
Mr. Effingham entered the Effingham chariot with the squire , Miss Alethea , and Kate , and Will mounted his pony . 
Mr. Effingham and Kate are seated in the library reading ; a few twigs in the great fireplace crackle and sing as they crumble into white ashes ; the burning embers slowly donning those snowy hoods which shroud them when they are about to die . 
At last Mr. Effingham lays down his book , and utters a sigh which attracts Kate 's attention . 
Their eyes meet : she gazes at him wistfully -- at the pale brow , the sad lips , the weary eyes : his head droops . 
The child closes her book , softly approaches him , and lays her hand upon his shoulder . 
Mr. Effingham smiles sadly , and passes his hand slowly over the bright locks of the child . 
`` Nothing , '' he says . 
Mr. Effingham only presses the little form more closely with his encircling arm . 
Kate continues , laying her cheek on his shoulder , and looking up softly into his shadowy eyes : `` I do n't think you are well , dear cousin , and it grieves me . 
`` I am not sick -- no , not sick , '' he murmurs , `` but -- '' And his hand unconsciously seeks his heart and rests there . 
`` Do you think my heart is sick ? '' 
he says with a wistful smile , his head drooping more and more . 
`` I should be very unhappy were that so , '' he continued . 
`` And still more unhappy , if you , dear , ever felt what -- '' He does not finish -- the form of the child is agitated slightly . 
`` Men can bear having their hopes all disappointed , -- their affections chilled , -- their lives rendered dark and gloomy by those afflicting trials , which they must pass through in existence , '' he goes on thoughtfully , `` but children should not feel them ; -- were you to be distressed , Katy , I think I should find it harder to bear than all . '' 
`` I pray you may never feel the afflictions I have gone through -- formerly , '' he says . 
`` What is the matter , dear ? '' 
She leans upon his shoulder , sobbing ; her eyes are full of tears . 
`` I have got over it -- if I was so , '' he replies , caressing the child 's hair ; `` come , now , Kate -- do n't cry . '' 
`` Take this to Effingham Hall , and deliver it to Mr. Effingham , '' he said . 
`` See here upon the back ` Mr. Effingham , Effingham Hall . ' 
I do n't want to fight Effingham -- I do n't want to have any further altercation with one related to Ma ` mselle Henrietta ; ah ! 
Lanky obeyed , trembling , and in a quarter of an hour Captain Ralph was on his way to Hamilton 's , where he expected to find some second , in case Mr. Hamilton was engaged to act for Mr. Effingham . 
Effingham is a bitterly passionate man , and hates you profoundly . 
`` Effingham is probably out of practice , and you stand some chance . '' 
`` I am glad you are so confident , '' said Hamilton , `` but I think it my duty to say that Effingham was considered one of the best swordsmen in London . '' 
`` Be good enough to allow our respective seconds to arrange the preliminaries of the combat , '' observed Mr. Effingham , with an important air . 
`` Where is Mr. Effingham ? '' 
`` I am he , sir . '' 
`` It was directed to ` Mr. Effingham , ' and that is my name , sir . '' 
`` He sent it in by a servant , sir , and I returned my reply through the same channel . '' 
`` I am not ignorant , sir , '' replied Mr. William Effingham , with lofty dignity , `` of the advances you have made to my cousin , Miss Catherine Effingham . 
But the soldier suppressed his agitation : when his opponent had finished , he replied with a low bow , and in a voice of respectful solemnity : `` I beg to assure you , Mr. Effingham , that your suspicion that I designed , or now design , paying my addresses to your beautiful cousin , Miss Effingham , is wholly a mistake . 
The Captain stopped to return , with great respect , the bows of Mr. Effingham and Mr. Alston , who , mounting their horses , rode off with graceful dignity . 
She found him there now , reading , his brow resting on his hand , the flowering vines falling around him as he half reclined upon the trellis work . 
Kate stole behind him , and before he knew it leaned her head upon his shoulder , and uttered a little , quiet laugh . 
The pale face was raised from the volume , and , leaning his head upon that of the child , his old pensive smile came to his lips . 
asked Kate `` The writings of Steele , '' he said ; `` and now I suppose you are quite as much in the dark as ever . '' 
Mr. Effingham smiled . 
`` I believe these children criticise better than we men p520-618 do , '' he murmured ; `` but , Kate , '' he continued , `` do n't you like his merry pieces better ? '' 
`` The lily of the valley and the violet are not weeds , '' he said , musing , as he looked at the bright face . 
`` Oh certainly , '' he said , smiling , and the man and the child were soon bending down over the grassy banks of the stream for all sorts of flowers . 
Mr. Effingham followed . 
He did not see a horse tied near the gate : he did not observe a hat in the hall of the mansion . 
He opened the door of the library , and witnessed a spectacle which made him start . 
She betrayed some embarrassment upon Mr. Effingham 's sudden entrance , and a slight color came to her cheeks ; but that was all . 
That gentleman presented the painful spectacle of a man caught in the act of filching a sheep from its rightful owner : he avoided Mr. Effingham 's eye : he drew back from Miss Alethea : he considered the feasibility of disappearing up the chimney , or through the window at a bound . 
At last he seemed suddenly to recover his powers of locomotion : he stammered some hasty words , and bursting into a roar of laughter , thrust a letter into Miss Alethea 's hands , and took to flight . 
In ten minutes he was seen galloping away like a deserter . 
Mr. Effingham , with flushed face , and haughty looks , stood silently gazing at Miss Alethea . 
With which words Miss Alethea sailed slowly out , her black silk rustling : Mr. Effingham standing perfectly motionless in the middle of the floor -- the letter lying on the table . 
`` Engaged for half a year ! '' 
Hamilton ! '' 
His eye fell on the letter , and he tore it open and read it like lightning -- his brow flushing , now with anger , then pleasure , then this latter expression chased away the former , and his face was radiant . 
He dropped the letter and uttered a sigh , which seemed to remove instantly a mountain from his breast . 
Mr. Effingham uttered a second long-drawn sigh , and rose like Columbus when the New World dawned upon him . 
And again he pointed to the trees , and spoke of that bright childhood , and his sufferings since then , and all the misconception which had cleared away as a cloud passes from the sun , and leaves all bright again , and full of warmth , and hope , and joy . 
And , overhead , the oriole 's song sprang upon the air , but could not match the music of her voice ; as none of those bright beautiful red buds of spring beneath their feet could p520-623 hold comparison with the bright rosy cheek which lay upon his bosom . 
The soft blue eyes were turned up to his own ; thenceforth , his heaven was clear . 
This was a freak of the Captain , who , passing by the Oldfield school in his fine chariot , had discovered Lanky holding a confidential interview with Donsy after school under an elm ; and so , addressing the astonished Corydon by the name of `` villain , '' brought him -- nothing loth -- and Donsy with him , to the Hall ; it being understood that the chariot would have to return by nightfall round by Williamsburg . 
Lanky looked amazed when he was spoken to , and shook his pine knot head unconsciously , and regarded his huge feet and striped stockings with the air of a bewildered scaramouch , as the Captain afterwards confidentially informed him . 
Behind all sat Mr. Effingham and Clare -- silent ; gazing upon the fair spring sunset . 
It rested in his own . 
Lastly , the squire read his brown , heavy-typed `` Gazette , '' and grumbled at his Excellency ; and from time to time rolled back his wristbands and looked out upon the fields , and spoke to Miss Alethea near . 
So they sat , when Kate , singing like a bird , came to them ; and behind her , Will -- Will , with devoted love ; Will , with perfect abnegation of his personal identity ; Will , devoured by his tender and everlasting devotion , which caused him to blush , and cast beseeching glances , and extend his arms , and only grasp the air . 
The rustle of a document shrined in his bosom -- so to speak -- however , consoled him . 
And drawing forth the true love indenture , he threw his eyes upon that fascinating document , and seeing the signature , was comforted . 
Kate put her arms round Mr. Effingham 's neck , covered his eyes with her fingers , and his face was wrinkled into a smile . 
He guesses very soon who it is ; and she entreats him and cousin Clare to come and see her fine new book , given her by Willie . 
`` Mr. Effingham , as we may imagine , was radiant with joy ; and it is scarcely too much to say , that Clare was quite as happy . 
