Not to praise his performances , would have been discouraging to Master William Mitten , and very mortifying to his mother ; accordingly , whether they were well-timed or ill-timed , everybody praised them . 
They would snatch him up in their arms , kiss him , pronounce him a perfect prodigy , both in beauty of person and power of mind ; and declare that they would be willing to go beggars upon the world to have such a child . 
At eight years of age , William was placed under the instruction of Miss Smith , the teacher of a female school , into which small boys were admitted by courtesy . 
Here he continued until his tenth year , when Miss Smith told his mother that he was getting too old to remain in her school , and that she could keep him no longer . 
William being now out of employment , his mother took six months to deliberate as to what was next to be done with him ; and in the meantime she sent him in the country to stay with his grandmother . 
On his return she determined to place him under the tuition of Mr. Markham , one of the best of men , and best of instructors . 
This took Mrs. Mitten a little by surprise ; for she supposed that Mr. Markham would be proud of such an accession to his school as William . 
William made his debut at school in a dress which was rather tawdry for Sunday , and extravagant for the school-room . 
The first ten or fifteen minutes were spent by William and the school boys in inter-changing looks of admiration , which Mr. Markham indulged , under pretence of not observing . 
At length a pretty general titter began to run through the school at William 's expense . 
Mr. Markham now interposed , with a sternness that instantly brought all to order but William , who tittered in turn , at divers persons and things . 
The object of William 's . 
In all his life , William had never seen exactly such a thing as this ; and he laughed at it , without stint and without disguise . 
John soon became indignant , and raising his book between his face and the teacher , he set his mouth to going as if repeating all the vowels and consonants of the alphabet in quick time , and shook his fist at William with a quiver of awful portent . 
`` Come here , William ! '' 
William did not move ; and the whole school was electrified at disobedience to Mr. Markham 's orders . 
`` Come here , William ! '' 
He retired , crying , and limping and rubbing and shaking his bushy head like a muscovy drake in a pet ; and Mr. Markham proceeded : `` I tell you , William , you must obey me '' -- `` Yes , sir , '' said William , pale as a sheet . 
William obeyed promptly , and hardly took his eyes from his book until the school was dismissed . 
During the recess he begged his mother to take him away from Mr. Markham 's school . 
William returned to school , and for several weeks did remarkably well . 
He was put in a class with George Markham , son of the preceptor , a promising youth , but equal to William in nothing but attention to his studies . 
As William could get his lessons in half the time allowed him for this purpose , he soon began to neglect them , until the last moment from which he could commit them , and then to some time beyond the moment ; and here was the beginning of his bad luck.As he grew remiss , Mr. Markham counseled him , lectured him , and threatened him ; but all to no purpose . 
This alarmed William a good deal ; but not quite enough to stimulate his industry to continued exertion ; and after ten or fifteen lessons he came up deficient again . 
This was William 's first falsehood ; but it saved him from a whipping which he awfully dreaded ; for though Mr. Markham knew that he had not told the truth , he deemed it best to admit the excuse , at least so far as to withhold the rod of correction for the present . 
As he dismissed the school , he told William to remain a few moments , and when they were alone he thus addressed him : `` William , I very much fear you told me a falsehood to-day . 
He then proceeded to counsel him kindly and affectionately against the danger of lying . 
William went home in sadness and in tears , for his conscience gave him no rest . 
His mother sought in vain for the cause of his distress . 
The next day he went to the school and acquitted himself well for that and the four sncceeding days , for which Mr. Markham gave him great credit and encouragement . 
He was unobserved by William , and he withdrew to the school room . 
Just before the recitation hour William made his appearance . 
What he had been doing during his absence , was not known ; but that he had not been studying was manifest from his conduct , and still more manifest from his ignorance of the lesson when he came to recite . 
`` What have you been doing , William , '' said Mr. Markham , `` that you know nothing of this lesson ? '' 
Mr. Markham passed the matter over until he dismissed his school , when he detained William , told him where his book was , repeated his lecture upon lying , and enforced it with a pretty severe flogging . 
William had never experienced the like of that before , and probably would never have experienced it again , but for the imprudence of his mother and her friends . 
He promised his preceptor that he would never repeat his offence ; and he went home with a countenance and manner indicative of a fixed purpose to keep his promise . 
He told his mother nothing of what had happened , nor did she find it out for four days afterwards . 
In the meantime , William was all that she or his preceptor could wish him to be . 
It so happened , however , that Thomas Nokes had lingered about the school-house , and seen all that had transpired between William and his teacher . 
He went home where he found Mrs. Glib , one of Mrs. Mitten 's most devoted friends -- as she proved by carrying to her all news that was likely to affect her peace . 
`` Why , for the unmerciful beating which Mr. Markham gave to your dear , sweet , lovely little William , last Friday . '' 
William never said a word to me about it : and not fifteen minutes before you came in , Mr. Markham was here congratulating me on the progress my child was making in everything that was good . '' 
Well , Thomas told me , right in her presence , that Markham whipt William till he drew the blood from him ! '' 
groaned Mrs. Mitten , `` why did n't William tell me of it ! '' 
Poor William dare not tell of it . 
`` I fear , '' said Mrs. Mitten with streaming eyes , `` that I offended Mr. Markham when I placed William under him , by telling him that William was easy to leadbut hard to drive.He immediately showed some reluctance at receiving him . 
But I only meant to apprise him of the child 's disposition . 
Poor child , with all his talents , I fear he is doomed to bad luck . '' 
Now everybody knew what a prodigy William was ; and old Markham knew that as soon as William entered the school , his beloved darling , precious George , would have to come down a notch . 
All the boys say that William is smarter than George , and yet that old Markham is always pecking at him . 
Just at this moment William made his appearance with a bright and joyous face ; and holding up a most beautiful edition of Sanford and Merton . 
`` William , '' said his mother , `` did Mr. Markham whip yon last Friday ? '' 
`` Yes , ma'am , '' whispered William . 
`` But I do n't think he will whip me again , for I mean to be a good boy . '' 
It was very unluckyfor William , that Mrs. G. made this remark ; and still more unluckythat his mother did not suspend her examination here , until Mrs. G. retired . 
`` William , it would break my heart to discover that you had told a lie ; but if you have told one , confess it , my child , to your mother ! '' 
William paused and pondered , as well he might ; for having Mrs. Glib 's salvation and his mother 's heart in one eye , and Mr. Markham 's awful lie-physic in the other , he was in a most perplexing dilemma . 
`` Do n't you see , Mrs. Mitten , that the child is actually afraid to deny that he told a lie ? 
He knows that if it gets to Markham 's ears that he denied it , he 'd beat him to death . 
Did n't he whip you very severely , William ? '' 
`` Where did he whip you ? '' 
William 's pants were rolled up , and at the first glance , his legs seemed as white and as spotless as pure alabaster . 
She was confident that William had received `` jorum , '' and that marks of it might yet be found . 
Accordingly , she put on her specs and squatted down to a close examination of William 's legs , beginning at the left . '' 
William had obviously `` danced juba '' under the operation , and in three of his movements he had so distracted the instrument , that the end of it pressed much harder upon the flesh in these places than the operator intended , and of course it left its most permanent mark where it pressed hardest . 
Just at this point her daughters made their appearance , and the matter being explained to them they burst into tears ; and William seeing his mother and sisters weeping , he burst into tears . 
The ladies all answered at once , with different degrees of exaggeration , but all to the same point , namely , that Markham had beaten William most unmercifully . 
`` Why , did n't William tell you of it ? '' 
`` No , poor child , he hardly dare talk about it now . 
He is completely cowed . 
Since he went to school he seems to have been buried ; nobody notices or speaks of the child any more than if he were dead . '' 
you have been feasting upon his praises so long , that you can not live without them . 
I never detected William in a lie in all my life . '' 
`` No , nor you never will , the way you 're going on , if he told a thousand . 
`` I think he has a prejudice against William , and I think I know the reason of it . '' 
He 's incapable of prejudice against anybody , much less against little silly children . 
I 'll go over and see him and learn the whole truth of the matter . '' 
`` No , you need n't trouble yourself , brother , I shall not send William to school to him any longer . '' 
Strange to tell , William listened to his uncle with a kind of approving amazement , and as soon as he had concluded , said : `` Ma , I 'm willing to go back to Mr. Markham now ; I a ` nt afraid of him ; I do n't think he 'll ever whip me again . '' 
`` No , '' said Miss Ann , `` and if I was ma , I 'd die before I 'd send brother William back to him to be beaten like a dog ! '' 
`` Well , Anna , I see your mind is made up to take William from Mr. Markham 's school . '' 
`` Ma , '' said William , `` let me go back to the end of the quarter . '' 
Captain Thompson wheeled off and left the house as if to get something of importance that he had left in a dangerous place . 
In about a half hour he returned : `` Well , '' said he , `` I have seen Markham , and heard the whole matter explained '' -- and he gave it from first to last , just as it occurred . 
He argued , he entreated , he implored , he forewarned , he remonstrated , he used every means that he could think of to change her mind , but to no purpose . 
I have been thus particular in giving this part of William 's history , because it proved in the end , as the sequel will show , to be remarkably unlucky , and fruitful of wonderful consequences . 
The reader will remember that we left Mrs. Mitten resolved to remove Master William from Mr. Markham 's school . 
But unluckilyno such teacher was just then to be found ; she was constrained , therefore , to advertise for one ; and though she placed her advertisement in three Gazettes , of pretty general circulation , three months rolled away before any one proffered his services to Master William . 
These soon became so frequent that William entirely neglected his mother 's parties for them ; by means whereof his mother and her friends lost the entertainment which he used to afford them upon such occasions . 
She often demanded of him explanations of his discourtesy to his old admirers , which he promptly gave to her entire satisfaction . 
Sometimes he was at the Juvenile Debating Society ; at others he was at a Prayer Meeting ; at one time he `` went to hear Parson Deleth 's Lecture . '' 
At another he went to hear the Euterpean band ; and at all other times he was taking tea with good boys , or engaged in some laudable employment . 
As the young Glibs had rather more leisure than any other boys in town , and as their mother had charged them to cultivate a close acquaintance with Master William , they were frequently thrown together . 
At first William was rather shy of those acquaintances ; but as they forced themselves into his company , pleading their mother 's order for so doing , he could not well refuse to take them under his moral training . 
Accordingly they soon became very intimate ; and William was pleased to find that they were by no means as bad boys as his mother took them to be . 
Withal he soon discovered that they were possessed of a vast fund of information , which they communicated to him freely ; first to his astonishment , and afterwards to his delight . 
Though one of them was two months , another fifteen and another thirty-seven months older than William , they could slip through gaps that he feared to attempt . 
They could recognize people in the dark with the eye of an owl ; and run half-bent in gutters and ditches , faster than William could , on a plain . 
At the end of three or four weeks from the time that William left school , Mr. Markham 's examination came off , and most of the town attended it . 
The visitors were , as usual , liberal in their praises of such as did well ; and these , William , who was present , heard with painful emotions . 
They were praises which made his tea-party-compliments seem insignificant . 
Here was competition , and not one was praised , of whom he did not know himself to be decidedly the superior . 
William saw one and another distributed with increasing dejection and self-reproach . 
William dropt his head and wept bitterly ; for he felt that all this would have been his , had he remained at school . 
John stept out so completely metamorphosed , that William himself hardly knew him . 
His hair was combed down straight and slick . 
His feet were disguised under shoes and stockings . 
His suit was all new and of course all of one color . 
His mother had tried herself upon it from the spinning of the first thread , to the fitting of it on . 
All this was slow murder to William Mitten . 
Nor did his tortures end here . 
Seeing his uncle and Mr. Markham in conversation as the company retired , he flattered himself that they were negotiating for his return to school , and he drew near to them unobserved by either , and overheard this conversation : `` That little fellow Brown is an odd looking fish , Mr. Markham , but there 's some gumptionin him after all . '' 
When William studied -LRB- and he had begun to study well -RRB- he was vastly superior to George in everything . 
George 's part was designed for him , and your son 's for George ; and I 'll venture to say , that I can take William and read over the part to him but once , and he will perform it decidedly better than George did . 
William went home in tortures , and hardly slept a wink that night . 
He would have given the world for the honors and praises which George Markham had received that day ; and he would have been willing to have changed persons with John Brown , for the trophies which John had won . 
As the private teacher had not yet been found , William had nothing to do for the present , and he resumed his attention to public and devotional exercises , in fellowship with the young Glibs , and others of their stamp . 
He had not been gone long when William came in . 
`` William , '' said his mother , do you associate with the Glibs ? '' 
Is that so , William ? '' 
I got wind of it and hid my children ; but I 'm told they 've got William '' `` A warrant ! '' 
shrieked Mrs. M. `` In mercy 's name tell me what has my child been doing to have a warrant out against him ? '' 
Her brother David was sent for , post-haste ; and he was soon at Mr. Justice Easy 's office , where William was under arrest . 
A short interview between him and Parson Turner settled the matter amicably . 
-- This done , Mr. Thompson proceeded with William to his sister 's , where he found the two mothers . 
She soon returned with her three boys , who were placed with William before the Captain . 
William promised obedience , of course ; and like a good boy , kept his promise for two nights and a half , without ever asking leave of absence . 
On the second night she seated him at the stand to read to her and his sisters . 
He had proceeded about a quarter of an hour , when three strange whistles were heard near the house . 
They were not noticed by Mrs. M. as yet ; but the first had no sooner sounded , than William began to read horribly . 
`` Now , William , '' said his mother , `` you 've got tired of reading already ; and you 're trying how bad you can read , that I may make you stop ! '' 
`` That 's the way the boys whistle at school , '' said William . 
Go out William , and beg them to desist . '' 
William obeyed promptly , and it seemed gladly . 
The whistling ceased as soon as he went out ; and in a few minutes he returned . 
`` A parcel of school-boys , '' said William , `` but they said they would n't whistle about the house any more . '' 
He resumed his seat , and read pretty well until his mother excused him . 
The next evening the whistling was renewed ; but at such a distance from the house , as to attract the attention of no one ; unless , perchance William from the events of the preceding night , was led to notice it . 
`` Ma , '' said he `` may n't I go to the Juvenile Debating Society to-night ? '' 
He set out , but happening to fall in with Ben and Jeff Glib , by the way , -LRB- so they were called for short -RRB- they proposed going by Squire King 's garden , and getting a few June apples . 
Jeff said that he knew `` that to be a fact ; for he heard him tell William Strain , his wife 's little brother , that very day , to go in with his playmates , and eat as many as they wanted , but not to break down his trees . '' 
`` Well , if that 's the case , '' said William , `` Ill go ; but I would n't stealapples for anything in the world . '' 
William had attended the Juvenile Debating Society too long and with too much profit , not to feel the full force of Master Glib 's logic , and consequently his scruples were immediately removed and the boys proceeded to the garden . 
`` William , '' said Ben in a whisper , `` this is a good place to learn to climb . 
Thus instructed , William , with Ben 's help , ascended the tree . 
He stampt limb after limb until he thought enough had fallen to satisfy the company , and was about descending , when Jeff said , `` Do n't come down yit -- we a n't got enough yit -- I can eat a bosom full . 
William went out on the limb as directed , and at the first stamp , missing the limb , he fell , and broke his arm just above the elbow . 
His pain was great , and his alarm was greater , but he bore them with little complaint until he cleared the garden . 
He then broke forth in heart-piercing groans , sobs , and lamentations ; but not loud enough to disturb any of the villagers ; `` Oh , my arm does hurt me so bad ! 
His cries announced his coming before he reached home ; for they became louder as he approached his mother 's door . 
His sisters flew to him , and his mother rose to follow them ; but her strength failed her and she fell back in her chair . 
They could not learn the cause of his wailing until he entered the house ; when advancing to his mother , he sobbed out , `` Oh , my dear mother , look at my arm ! '' 
`` I was going to the Society , '' said William , `` and was standing by a tree , and one boy said he 'd learn me to climb , and he pushed me up the tree , and I fell down and broke my arm . '' 
We will not detain the reader with the many questions which this explanation provoked , and the answers to them which William gave . 
The next morning Squire King came over to enquire `` how poor little William was . '' 
He expressed , and no doubt felt , tender sympathies for the boy ; but any one to have marked his eye , would have supposed that his sympathies gathered about William 's feetrather than his arm . 
`` William , '' said the Squire with a small dash of waggishness in his tone and countenance which Bill seemed to think very ill-timed ; `` was it a smooth-barked tree , or a rough-barked tree ? '' 
Mrs. Mitten , if there 's anything that I have that can minister to William 's comfort , it is at your service . 
I have some very fine June apples , and I will send him over some ; little boys commonly like such things . '' 
I know he will prize them very highly -- William have you no thanks to give Mr. King , for his kindness ? '' 
`` William , '' said his mother , it seemed to me you were a little rude to Mr. King . '' 
`` I know him , '' said Bill sulkily . 
`` He 's always poking his fun at people . '' 
`` I 'm sure there was nothing like fun in what he said to you . 
William 's arm kept him , for the most part confined to the house for five weeks or more ; during which time he was quite lucky ; for nothing happened to disturb his , or his mother 's peace . 
He had been so long kept from the Juvenile Debating Society that he had become very anxious to attend it ; and his mother 's consent being obtained , he departed once more for the arena of youthful polemics . 
He did not return until the family retired to rest ; and in passing to his room he made such a noise among the chairs , as to wake up his mother . 
`` Is that you William ? '' 
They met in the entry , just as William had come the fourth time to a chair which had been headinghim ever since he entered the house . 
He seized it -LRB- for it had naturally enough exhausted his patience -RRB- and slung it with all his might as far as he could send it . 
Just here , William having got hold of a small table that stood in the entry , and which he probably mistook for a wash-basin , poured out upon it a villainous compound , of heterogeneous elements , which it would have required a stroager head and greater capacitythan Bill possessed , to keep together in peace for a single night . 
The Doctor grunted , as usual ; but with unusual indications of sympathy for Master Mitten . 
It was late in the morning before William rose . 
He had learned from a servant all that passed on the preceding evening ; and it was an hour after he rose before he could venture from his room , to face his mother . 
At length he came , and mingled tears of contrition with her tears of sorrow -- confessed his fault and promised never to smoke another segar , or drink another drop of liquor , while he lived . 
Considering that William never rose till breakfast time in the morning , and was out almost every night to a late hour , he made very rapid progress in his studies under Doctor Twattle . 
They and William have become so much attached to one another , that it seems a pity to separate them . 
Now , I will pay three-fourths of Dr. Twattle 's salary if he will take my boys in with William ; and that will bring William 's tuition down to almost nothing . '' 
I ca n't consent for William to go to your house to be taught . '' 
`` I have called , Doctor , '' said Mrs. Glib , `` to see if you would not be willing to take my three boys under your instruction with Master William . 
`` I would rather not change my boarding house ; but if Mrs Mitten desires it , I will even do that . '' 
`` Well , '' said she , `` we can arrange this matter satisfactorily , provided brother David will give his consent that Doctor Twattle shall take other children under his charge besides William . 
Tell Mrs. Glib that I object to Twattle 's taking any more children while he is under contract to teach William alone -- I will not have his attentions divided . 
`` Oh , yes , Mrs. Glib ; and he wo n't hear to the Doctor 's taking any more children while he is under contract to William . 
He wishes William to have all his attentions . '' 
`` He does ! '' 
He seemed very positive . '' 
`` Why that Twattle was courting the widow Mitten . '' 
No , that was not it ; but that the widow Mitten was courting Twattle !! 
The widow Mitten was not the woman to court anybody -- i. e. , matrimonially . 
No change , however , was observed in the Doctor 's conduct ; and nothing of higher interest occurred for the first two months , than , that Mrs. Mitten in taking one of Master William 's coats to mend , found a pack of cards in one of the pockets , which discovery she reported to his teacher , who promised to cure him of all love of cards by parental reproof and kind counsels . 
Use no violence -- '' Here William came in whistling `` Yankee Doodle . '' 
But to return from this digression -- Mrs. Mitten 's question stumped the Captain , and he turned the subject : `` And what are you going to do with William , now ? '' 
Fortunately , a young man of liberal education and good character opened a school in the village , within three days after Twattle left , and William was sent to school to him . 
William had just got into his new quarters , when the Captain visited his sister , bearing with him a letter from the Post Office , to her address . 
I 've left my pocket handkerchief at home -- Good morning I 'll stop the advertisement , and pay up both bills for you , and talk to William . 
He may do well at the new school . 
Weleft William Mitten just after his introduction to Mr. Cosby Smith , his fourth teacher . 
William , without trouble , and with little study , went immediately to the head of this school ; and he went there only to breed trouble to his teacher , and mischief , vice , and insubordination among his schoolmates . 
For some months before William had entered this school , his applications to his mother , for money , had become alarmingly frequent ; but he always quieted her alarms by representing to her that the funds desired were for some benevolent , or praise worthy object . 
His representations brought from her many excellent lectures upon indiscriminate charities , and the danger to which his benevolent nature was exposed from imposters and worthless vagrants , who choose rather to beg than to work -- to which he generally gave substantially the same reply , namely , `` that he was always very particular in seeing who he gave his money to . '' 
In this he told the truth , at least , since he generally gave his money to one of the Glibs , whom he had become very particular in seeing too frequently at the card-table . 
He had been at Smith 's school but a few months , before the fountains of his charity suddenly dried up ; and what may seem very strange to some , dried up just as he began to acquire the means of more enlarged benevolence . 
His growing fortune first exhibited itself in a profusion of pen-knives , which he carried about him , from the most costly and elegant down to the cheapest and most worthless kind . 
`` William , '' said his mother , `` where do you get those elegant pen-knives ? '' 
William did not show his mother his whole assortment , by three or four . 
The next signs which William exhibited of his growing fortune , were books , fishing-poles , shinny-sticks , bunches of quills , breast-pins , and cakes of divers kinds . 
`` William , '' said his mother , `` where did you get those articles ? '' 
These were new lights to William ; for he thought his mother would be delighted to hear of his superiority over his schoolmates , and that he was already turning his talents to good account . 
`` Why , William , you surely have not sold a foundknife ! 
It was not your property , but the property of him who lost it ; and you should have kept it , to restore it to him as soon as he could be discovered ; and you should have used your best exertions to find the owner , in order that you might restore it to him . 
William was saved a great deal of trouble and mortification in answering this question , by an exclamation of his sister Jane , who no sooner cast her eyes upon the breast-pin , than she exclaimed : `` Why , Ma , that is Flora Glib 's breast-pin . 
Let me look at it William , yes , here are her initials on it : F. C. L. G. -- Flora Claudia Lavinia Glib.I knew it as soon as I saw it ; for I have seen her wear it a hundred times . '' 
`` William ! '' 
ejaculated his mother , with manifest alarm and indignation , `` where did you get that pin ? '' 
The truth of the matter is that William had made such rapid improvement in card-playing , that he had become an over-match for the Glibs , and he was now indoctrinating as many of his school-mates into the mysteries of the card table as he could find willing to become his pupils ; and for the reasons already given , he found nearly the whole school ready to take lessons from him . 
Most of his articles of merchandize , -LRB- and we have not named all of them -RRB- were the fruits of his industry in this department of science ; though some of them were , as he said , rewards for his better services to his fellow students . 
It would have been bad enough , had his evil influence stop here ; but it did not . 
He had already become mean enough to tempt his school-fellows to sin in a hundred forms ; and artful enough to put them always forward to the post of danger in the commission of it . 
The consequence was , that , while he got the booty , they got the floggings and disgrace . 
I know , my dear brother , that your intentions are good -- that you have the interests of my child deeply at heart , and that all your aims are for his good and mine ; but I fear that you have so often been provoked by William , and have become so prejudiced and embittered against him , that you can not judge of his conduct impartially , you can not make the due allowances for his faults , and that you will lean as much too far on the side of severity in your government as I have leaned on the side of lenity in mine . 
Had his father lived , he would have exercised absolute authority over William in all matters touching his education . 
He would have demanded -- or rather you would have freely granted to him , the perusal of all your son 's letters to you . 
This reply brought Mrs. Mitten to a dead silence ; and while she was pondering upon it , very opportunely for its success , in steps Master William , with his beautiful face `` pretty considerably '' disfigured with bruises and scratches . 
`` Why , William ! '' 
exclaimed his mother , almost at the fainting point , `` who upon the earth has treated you in that manner ? '' 
`` Jim Fox , '' muttered William . 
As soon as he retired , Mrs. M. addressed her son as follows : `` William , I 'll have to send you away from this village , or wicked associates will be the ruin of you . 
`` Ma , '' said William , in a subdued tone , `` I 'll go any where else but to Mr. Waddel 's school . 
`` No , William , it is unreasonable to suppose that any man can take pleasure in punishing his pupils . 
Here William saddened and wept ; and his mother did likewise . 
Thearticles of capitulation having been ratified , as mentioned in the last chapter , the Captain was anxious to set out immediately with William , for Mr. Waddel 's school ; but Mrs. Mitten declared that it would be impossible to prepare a suitable outfit for her son , short of a fortnight . 
I never was separated from William a fortnight in my life . 
He is not tornfrom me , but he is takenfrom me -- with my consent -- necessarily , I grant , but it is a sore necessity . 
He is to be carried among strangers , to be treated , I know not how . 
That William can stay no longer here , you know . 
That he is in the broad road to ruin here , I know , and you ought to know . 
That he is getting beyond your control you confess , and in a little time he will be beyond mine . 
In the meantime , William behaved himself uncommonly well . 
He was too much saddened by the prospect before him to relish either amusements or books . 
He spent most of his time at home in deep despondency ; for as soon as it was noised abroad that William Mitten was going to Waddel 's school , the reports of Waddel 's severities doubled in number , and quadrupled in exaggeration . 
William had heard these reports in all their variations , and they filled him with horror . 
His mother offered him encouragements with the tongue , but discouragements with the eye , every day , the last , of course , neutralized the first . 
After twelve days of preparation , Mrs. Mitten informed her brother that William would be ready to take his departure the next day . 
He found the family alone , for the hour of William 's departure had been purposely kept secret , to avoid the intrusion of visitors on this solemn evening . 
On the candle-stand , by the mother 's side , lay the family Bible open -- next to her , in the order of their ages , sat the two daughters , and William rested his drooping head upon the pillar of the mantle-piece . 
The servants stood around , with their eyes fixed upon him , as if for the last time . 
A minute or more elapsed before another word was spoken ; and the first , to the surprise of all , fell from William . 
`` Uncle , '' said he , in a grief-stricken , faltering voice , `` Uncle -- you can -- save me -- from going to Mr. Waddel 's school , if you will . 
A long pause in the conversation emboldened even the servants to drop a word in William 's behalf . 
She had never seen him an humble suppliant before ; and now , it was to her substitute , not to her ! 
She had never heard such accents of humility and contrition from his lips before . 
`` Well , Anna , '' continued the Captain , `` in the present state of things , I think you are released from that vow ; but supposing yourself entirely released from it , would you be willing to keep William longer in this town at any school ? '' 
`` Well , as he is penitent , and promises amendment , if I could feel myself free from my vow , I believe I would be willing to see him return to Mr. Markham . 
It is known all over the village , and nobody will believe you put him there without my consent ; and every body will think I pretended to turn William over to you , just to shuffle out of my vow . 
I therefore , give no consent to his going to Mr. Markham , and I would rather that you should not expose me to the suspicion of having given my consent to it . '' 
`` Well , William , '' resumed the Captain , `` that door 's closed . 
`` I 'll go , Uncle , '' said William , with a promptness and a firmness that astonished all present . 
William 's decision was conclusive upon the family ; and the Mother felt herself in duty bound not to disturb it by word , action , or look . 
She therefore assumed to be pleased , though she was so confident of William 's entire and radical reform , from what had just passed before her , that she would have preferred Markham to Waddel , if conscience had been out of the way . 
`` Anna , '' said the Captain , `` Mary '' -LRB- his wife , -RRB- `` and the children will come over with me in the morning to bid William good-bye , and Mary will spend the day with you . 
`` Go and bring out William 's trunk , and let us be off , for we have no time to lose . '' 
`` Come on , William , my brave boy -- come on ; we 've a long road and a bad road to travel ; '' bawled out the Captain to the vacant entry . 
Tom was waiting his turn to bid `` mas ' William '' good-by , and mingling his tears with those of the two families , of course , he had forgotten the trunk . 
They were all around `` mas ' William ; '' nothing doubting but that the saturnal of the preceding evening would be extended to the catastrophe of the occurrence which produced it . 
The first object that met his eye was Tom , repeating precisely the part he played the night before , when the Captain was so much affected , i. e. with swimming eyes , and mellowed heart , contemplating William . 
Anna , is William ready ? '' 
`` Just a moment , brother , till I tie this handkerchief over his ears ; the weather 's bitter cold . '' 
`` Nothing , but William 's clothes , and a few little nick-knacks . '' 
`` William , son , '' said his mother , `` I reckon you 'll have to leave these ; I do n't know how you can carry them . '' 
It seemed to be a hopeless case to all , and Bill surrendered with a long deep sigh , which touched the Captain 's heart a little ; and casting his eyes to William , who looked like a week 's washing of clothes piled together , he said , with a slight smirk : `` There 's nothing in the chaise-box but a snack , and a little bundle of under-clothing for myself ; you can put as many of these things in that as it will hold ; but be quick about it ! '' 
In the meantime the trunks took their places , the final kisses were disposed of , and a minute more found the Captain and William on their way . 
The Captain gave William much encouragement and good advice , and fretted a little at having to travel a half hour in the night to make his first stage , but , as no accident occurred , he was easily reconciled to it . 
The prospect looked gloomy , even to the Captain , and terrific to William . 
`` Uncle , '' whispered he , `` these ca n't be big people 's sons ! '' 
Poor comfort to William . 
The Captain laughed heartily at the story ; but William saw no fun in it . 
We think its tenants were , in Mitten 's day , Alex. B. Linton , Henry Rasenel , Samuel Weir , and William D. Martin . 
`` Thompson , sir , is my name , and this is my nephew , William Mitten , whom I have brought to place under your instruction . '' 
This was a clear splurge * for William 's benefit . 
`` Have you studied Latin , William ? '' 
During this conversation , which from the beginning to end , was of the most alarming interest to William , his eyes wide open , were fixed on Mr. Waddel , who was an object of still more alarming interest to him . 
From the time that William entered the house to the time that he left it , `` shadows , clouds , and darkness '' were gathering and deepening upon his mind ; relieved only by one faint gleam of light from young Ramsay , whom he regarded as the concentrated extract of all that was august , and great , and gifted , and good in the United States , if not in the world ; and an ample verification per seof all that his uncle had told him about `` big men 's sons . '' 
William was entered in due form a student of Mr. Waddel 's school ; and the Captain having enquired of the post office at which the students received their letters , and pressed Mr. Waddel to give him early information of William 's conduct , standing , and progress , he left with his charge for Mr. Newby 's . 
At length it was broken by William . 
He hardly ever whipt , but upon the report of a monitor ; and after a year or two from Master Mitten 's introduction to him , very rarely , but upon a verdict of a jury of students . 
The youth was made acquainted with William -- offered him a part of his bed and study , which were accepted . 
Before retiring to rest , the Captain paid a hasty visit to William 's new dormitory . 
Monday morning came , and William moved sadly to the Academy . 
William heard these reports with overwhelming amazement . 
The largest lesson he had ever recited was thirty-five lines , and the largest he had ever heard of being recited was one hundred . 
He had been led to believe that his native village was the very focus of intellectual illumination and mental vigor , and that he himself was the centre-beam of the focus . 
He did not suppose that Latin and Greek were made for country folks at all , much less for poor folks ; and behold , there stood before him homespun , † Gilbo-shod , potato-fed chaps , even smaller than himself , who had mastered one hundred and fifty lines in Virgil , acknowledging themselves the fag-end of their class , and `` double distanced ! '' 
The Doctor soon made his appearance ; and William signified to him his choice of classes . 
The morning 's exercises were exceedingly interesting to Master Mitten , of course , and he was allowed half a day to muse upon them ; for he was without the text book of his class , and could not be supplied until Doctor Waddel went home to his dinner . 
Thus ended the most terrific day of William 's pupilage . 
We have been particular in giving its history , not only for its effect upon Master Mitten , but that the reader might have a practical exhibition of Doctor Waddel 's government . 
Terrific as the day was to William , it was the first of a long series of days pregnant with good luck . 
said she ; `` I hope you got a good boarding-house , and a comfortable room for William this cold weather ; and that before you left , you saw him well provided with bedding , fire-wood , and all the other little conveniences that he needs ; for you know he has no idea of providing for himself . 
Did he seem satisfied with his new school ? 
`` Could n't you have got William into a room with him ? '' 
`` Well -- I did n't try -- he boards with Mr. Waddel , and I thought -- '' `` Oh ! 
Did he tell you how William liked the school and his teacher ? '' 
`` No , '' said Mrs. T. ; `` I asked him how William liked the school , and he said he had n't seen the school , when he came away . 
I asked him how he liked Mr. Waddel , and he said William thought Mr. Waddel a very grum lookingman ; but that he had had no opportunity of getting acquainted with him before he left . 
But he -LRB- Mr. Thompson , -RRB- said that it seemed to him that the man and the place were made for William -- that Willington was the most quiet , peaceful little village he ever saw ; in a healthy region , with delightful water , beautiful study-grounds -- industrious , hard-working , orderly boys , & c. , & c. '' `` Sister Mary , you may depend upon it , brother David was disappointed in the school , or William is dissatisfied with it , or both are dissatisfied with the teacher , or the board , or something else , or he would not put us off with these general remarks . 
As sure as you 're born , there is something there that he knows will not please me . 
If all had been to his liking and mine , he would n't have waited for questions from me , knowing my solicitude about the boy . 
He would have spokenin raptures about everything . 
How agreeably disappointed William had been -- what a charming family , and what comfortable quarters he had got in -- what an accomplished , agreeable , fascinating man Mr. Waddel is , & c. , & c . 
As soon as I get a letter from William , he will tell me all about them , and brother David had as well let me know about them at once . '' 
Now , I reckon husband found the boys ' fare very plain at Mr. Newby 's , and thought , maybe , that it would distress you to know this fact , as William has never been used to such living . 
She concluded her letter , folded it , addressed it to `` Master William Mitten , Willington , Abbeville District , South Carolina , '' and sent it to the post office . 
At the end of that time it was reported to Dr. Waddel , who took it from the office , and the same day delivered it to William . 
`` Well , sister Mary , he ca n't keep us long in suspense , for I have written to William , and I shall get a letter from him in a week or so that will explain everything . '' 
`` William 's study and bed room are of this kind . 
He occupies it with young Hay and two others . 
William has been under my instruction just a week to-day ; and though I would not venture confident predictions of him , upon so short an acquaintance , I will give you my present estimate of him , for what it is worth . 
If I am not grossly deceived in him , he is destined to a most brilliant future . 
He was a little rusty in the principles of construction at first -- no , in the applicationof them -- for of the principles themselves , he is master , and he improves in the application of them with every lesson . 
His class was a week ahead of him in the Greek grammar , when he entered it . 
He has already made up the deficiency , and now stands fully equal to the best in his class in this study -- indeed , in all their studies . 
He is moral , orderly , and studious , and if he will only do half as much for himself as nature has done for him , he will be the pride of his kindred and the boast of his country . 
William 's constitution can never stand the hardships to which he is exposed . 
`` Well , I manage to keep hera little decent by enduring a month 's grumbling at the end of every year ; but compare George and William will you . 
You 're always talking about making boys work , work , and giving 'em fine constitutions , and George has done no more work than William has , and his constitution 's no better . 
It is very hard for a child raised as William has been , to be exposed to such rough usage ; but , after all it may turn out for the best . 
Now , I see he has made up his mind to keep William at Waddel 's , and nowhere but Waddel 's , and he is the more bent upon it , because he wants him to contend with those -- what was that biggest man of all , that told him so much about Governor 's , and Senators , and Judges , and all that ? '' 
But as I was saying : David thinks there never was such a boy born for mind as William . 
I tell him I think George has quite as good a mind as William -- not such a sprightly mind , but more solid . 
I 've no doubt but that he will make a more solid , practical , useful man than William ; but -- '' `` Well , I 've told my husband so ; but he says as for talent , for genuine , native talent , George wo n't do to be named in the same year with William . 
Oh -- David 's head is set upon showing off William to those great folks , in that large school , and have his way he will ; so I think , my dear Anna , you 'd best try to reconcile yourself to it . 
Surely , if other people 's children , raised as tenderly as he has been , can live through it , he can . '' 
`` Oh , I could bear it all with becoming fortitude , my dear sister , if I could be sure that William would live through it -- that his constitution would not be undermined by it . 
But the change is so sudden -- in everything : If he lives through it , his spirit will be broken down -- he will be cowed -- his ambition be stifled . 
I know William 's disposition better than any body else in the world knows it . 
He can be led by kindness , stimulated by praise , and won by words , but he can not bear harshness , censure , and , least of all , chastisement . 
When , and where , will his misfortunes end ? 
At least , hope for the best , till you hear from William . 
It will be time enough to grieve when you hear that William is unhappy . '' 
He may suppose from the Captain 's sudden change of note , as soon as his wife took up the soothing harpsichord , that , except in the matter of George , and upon a few very rare occasions , when `` he put his foot down , '' he was under pretty rigid petticoat government . 
Before his wife returned from the visit of consolations , the Captain had finished a short letter to William , reporting Doctor Waddel 's opinion of him , the gratification it afforded his mother in particular , and his connections in general -- urging him not to disappoint the high expectations which had been raised of him -- to be studious -- not to mind the taunts of the boys about his fine clothes -- to wear them out as quick as possible with lightwood knots , and get plain , coarse ones . 
She does try her very best to become reconciled to William 's lot , but it seems impossible . 
She says that she will strive to overcome her feelings for your sake -- '' `` Well , that is all I can expect of her , '' said the Captain , with suffused eyes -- `` visit her every day , Mary , and keep her as much as possible from brooding over William 's fate . 
Atthe very time when Doctor Waddel was penning his letter to Captain Thompson , teeming with compliments to William Mitten , the same William Mitten was writing another to his mother teeming with phillippies against Doctor Waddel ; but as good luck would have it William 's letter was about a month in reaching his mother . 
It might be , therefore , especially with a new comer to the school , several weeks before all these contingencies would result favorably to the writer , and so it was with William . 
His letter to his mother made his fare even worse than it was , by a total omission of wheat biscuit at least once in three weeks , and sometimes oftener , and butter `` semi-occasionally , '' and fresh pork for middling , every now and then ; chicken pie twice or thrice a year ; and turkey as often as old Maner * could kill a wild one , which happened about once in two years ; and venison as often as old Maner could kill a deer , which happened once in three years . 
Of course , master Mitten was not to blame for omitting all these things , for even biscuit-time had not rolled round when he wrote ; but it is due to the kind-hearted landlord and landlady , that Mitten 's report should receive the just qualifications . 
After descanting upon his board and lodging , he proceeded as follows : `` All I ever heard about old Waddel , is true . 
He whips ten times as much as Mr. Markham does , and twice as hard , and laughs and chuckles all the time he is doing it , like it made his heart glad to cut boys ' legs all to pieces . 
* Master Mitten closed his letter with a most earnest appeal to his mother `` to do all that she could to get his uncle to remove him from this school . '' 
I told you not to rig William out in finery for that school ; but you would ; and now , he is verifying my prediction . 
William tells you the boys there are the smartest and the most studious boys he ever saw ; and Waddel tells you that he is among the most promising of them all . 
If William does his duty he will soon command the respect of all his school-fellows , even of Brace himself . 
Mrs. Mitten pondered over these sayings sadly for a time , and then rejoined : `` Now , brother , you 're always ascribing William 's misfortunes to my folly or weakness ; tell me candidly , is n't it bad luck , and nothing but bad luck , that Mr. Waddel 's school happens to fall in the woods ? 
That William should be compelled to endure such rough fare ? 
And that he should have fallen into the same boarding house with that tantalizing Ned Brace ? '' 
`` I learned it from William 's bringing up ; the like of which you never saw in your mother 's family , I know . 
And now , Mrs. Anna Mitten , you have had a full display of all the crockery , china , and silver , that your mother possessed from the year 1773 to the year 1787 , when the whole disappeared with sister Jane , upon her marriage . '' 
Mrs. Mitten had her tears turned to smiles , at least by the Captain 's account of `` the old folks at home , '' and this was more than he hoped for , after reading William 's letter . 
He begged his sister to give William no encouragement to hope for a removal from Waddel 's , promised to write to him himself , and left her . 
But to the success of Captain Thompson 's plans , it was indispensable that William Mitten should become reconciled to this school ; otherwise he would keep his mother in such a state of mental excitement , that her health must soon give way under it , when no alternative would be left him , but to save the life of the mother , by indulgence of the son . 
He flattered himself that time would reconcile William to the school , and the sooner , when he saw all hope of leaving it cut off . 
He knew that the worst must soon be told , and he supposed that if he could carry his sister safely through the successive developments of the first month or two , his ultimate designs would be accomplished . 
His policy was , therefore , to lighten the first shock of each unpleasant discovery , by diverting her mind from it , with something amusing , flattering , or harmlessly controversial . 
Pray , Master Mitten , where did you learn your manners ? 
She resolved that William never should `` blossom , '' and that in this matter , at least , she would disappoint Mr. Brace . 
Accordingly she set to work with all dispatch to make him up two new suits ; and that they might not attract attention from their fineness , she chose for them the coarsest material that her heart would consent to William 's wearing . 
She taxed her mind to find some decent substitute for a shirt , but failing here , she made him up three cotton shirts , of Mrs. Thurlow 's spinning and weaving -- that is to say -- of the best quality of home manufacture . 
As there was no hope of meeting with a convenient opportunity of sending these cumbrous stores to William , by one going to Willington , Mrs. Mitten determined to forward them without delay per cart , in charge of her most intelligent and trusty servant . 
He told her that when her brother went off with William , he met them near Mr. Ellison 's , on the Washington road . 
`` Brother , have you answered William 's letter ? '' 
`` You 're not going to send for William to come home , surely ! '' 
`` Tom , '' said Mrs. Mitten , `` I want you to take old Ball and the cart , and carry those boxes to your mas ' William . 
He is going to school to Mr. Waddel , in Willington , over in South Carolina -- is Ball shod ? '' 
`` When you get to Rehoboth , inquire for Goshen , and when you get to Goshen , enquire for Barkesdale 's ferry ; and when you get to Barkesdale 's ferry , enquire for Willington , or Mr. Waddel 's either ; and when you get to Willington , ask for Mr. Newby 's , where you will find William -- I believe that 's all right , is n't it , Mary ? '' 
And here are ten dollars ; take five to bear your expenses , and give the other five , with this letter , to William . 
`` Captain , '' said Mr. West , `` have you heard from your nephew , William Mitten , lately ? '' 
`` Has anything happened to him ? '' 
`` Not that I know of , but his mother asked me the way to Mr. Waddel 's yesterday , with some auxiety , and I did n't know but that something had happened . '' 
Nothing can be the matter with William , for his mother was at my house last night , and I hardly ever saw her more cheerful than she was , all the time she stayed . 
`` One contained some clothing for William , and -- '' `` More finery , I suppose ! '' 
As the biscuit and crackers were too dirty to be replaced , as the jelly and jam were irretrievably lost to William , and as Tom , from fatigue and long fasting , was very hungry , he rightly conceived that he could make no better use of them than to eat them . 
The Captain took his name , placed the boxes and Mrs. Mitten 's letter in his charge , offered to pay freight , but the wagoner would receive nothing , placed Tom 's unexpended cash -LRB- seven dollars -RRB- in his hands for William , dropped a line in pencil to Newby explaining things , and set his face homeward rejoicing . 
They cured Mrs. Mitten of sending delicacies to her son , cured William of his complaints for many months , improved his style when speaking of his Preceptor , brought him out in suitable apparel for his place and associates , and sprung all the energies of his mother to reconcile herself to his lot . 
William soon stood a head and shoulders above any member of his class . 
The Georgians began to brag on him , the Carolinians to emulate him . 
He began to mingle in the active sports of his fellows , to be cheerful , if not forward , in sharing his part in providing fuel and making fires . 
His new clothes , to be sure , did not quite reach him before he `` blossomed , '' for he kept the changes of his first supply as long out of sight as possible ; but he was far from being in full bloomwhen `` the fruits of home industry reached him . 
His new clothes `` scratched him mightily at first , but he had got use to them , '' as he wrote to his mother ; but he thanked her for them . 
The change in his dress was not much more remarkable than the change in his physical constitution . 
And lastly , the performance of one or two dramatic pieces , usually a comedy and farce : but these were discontinued after the first and only public exhibition in which William Mitten took part , and the reading of compositions was substituted for them . 
William 's age flung him in the lowest , though his advancement would have entitled him to a place in the second . 
The examination approached , and William wrote pressingly to his mother and uncle to attend . 
William recognized them at the fence , and ran out to meet them . 
Neither of them knew him , till he greeted them , any more than if they had never seen him . 
His fine face was there , a little tanned , but that was all of William Mitten that was left . 
He had grown like a weed , and developed as we have said . 
`` Do you take charge of Mrs. Mitten , and William and Tom and I will attend to the horses and baggage . '' 
`` Why , this is a new horse , Tom , '' said William , as he sprung to unsaddle a horse which Tom had led up . 
`` Here , Tom , '' said the Captain , `` take this trunk in the house -- '' `` I 'll take it , '' uncle , said William . 
`` Bless de Lor ' , Mas ' William done got a man ` ready . '' 
The Captain saw him near the door with his burden without a totter , then turned , wiped his eyes twice , and was just blowing his nose the third time , when William leaped the fence , to assist Tom in leading the horses to the horse lot . 
In all the studies of his class , William distinguished himself . 
On this sat the Judges , of whom William H. Crawford , John C. Calhoun , and William W. Bibb were three . 
Without going through the details of the exercises , suffice it to say that Mitten took the premium in his class by the award of the judges , approved of by every man , woman and studentpresent at the exhibition . 
He had a part in both the dramatic pieces ; and here he acquitted himself , if possible , with more credit than in declamation . 
`` Mitten , Mitten , Mitten ! '' 
Most of the judges waited upon her , and all of them had something flattering to say of William , or to him in her presence , for he was always at her side . 
`` Master Mitten , '' said Mr. Crawford , `` I am proud to claim you as a Georgian . 
`` Master Mitten , '' said Mr. Calhoun , `` the United States have an interest in you ; and should I live to see you in the prime of life , I shall be sorely disappointed if I do not see you the admiration of them all . '' 
`` Come here , my son , and let me introduce you to Mrs. Mitten , my sister , mother of William . 
The invitation was cordially accepted , and as soon as one of William 's small trunks could be packed with selections from his wardrobe for the summer vacation , and Mrs. Mitten could renew her invitations and promises to the few ladies who had not left , and return her thanksgiving to Mr. and Mrs. Newby for their kindness to her son , and their hospitality to herself , and kiss Miss Thompson because she bore the family name and both knew they must be related , though neither could tell how , and give each of the house servants a quarter of a dollar apiece for being willing to do for her all that Tom did , and a dollar to the wash-woman for extra services , and a half dollar -LRB- sent -RRB- to the ostler for fear that he might be disappointed and her brother forget him -- Mrs. Mitten was ready to depart . 
While all this was transacting , the chaise was at the fence , Doctor Hay was sitting in his sulky , Gilbert was mounted on his father 's horse , Silverheels , William on Snap-dragon , and Captain Thompson at the door getting comfortable fast . 
It gave the Captain , too , an opportunity of charging William and Tom to notice well the road , so that either of them might find it without difficulty on their return . 
As they stopped at Mrs. M. 's door , the Captain inquired of William how he liked Snap-dragon . 
In the main , things went on smoothly and happily in the two families , during the vacation ; but before its close , both the Captain and his sister had their quiet a little disturbed by William 's over attention to Snap-dragon . 
It was a natural curiosity that prompted him to enquire carefully into Snap-dragon 's capabilities , accomplishments , predilections , and tractability . 
By close observation and experiment , he discovered that a little needless whipping improved him wonderfully -- -LRB- such the difference between a teacher and a disciple . -RRB- 
To teach him all these accomplishments William had to devote nearly his whole time to him . 
He had to ride him far and near ; and in so doing it was just as well to call and see all the planters within seven miles of the village , and rest awhile with them , and entertain them with all the wonders of Doctor Waddel 's school , as to ride that far and return without dismounting . 
These feats gave William great renown in the county . 
Perhaps no youth in the land ever made greater progress in `` the study of human nature '' than William did in the short space of two months . 
But without Snap-dragon , where would he have been ? 
Confined to the darkness of his own village ! 
`` William , '' he would say , `` I fear I committed a great error in giving you that horse ; I am sure I did . 
sometimes I take dinner at Mr. Love 's , sometimes at Mr. Tod 's , sometimes at Squire Mattoxes , sometimes at Mr. White 's , and Curtis King 's -- '' `` Why , William , my son , you ought not to visit people 's houses in that way -- '' `` Uncle , they always tell me they are glad to see me , and always beg me to come and see them again . '' 
Again the Captain would renew his complaints and advice : `` William , your mother is very uneasy about you . 
William 's victories happened to be reported to the Captain by Mr. Moore , in the presence of William , and in the way of congratulation to him ! 
`` Why , William ! '' 
exclaimed the Captain , `` is it possible that you have been running foot races and fighting -- '' `` Oh , do n't blame him , '' said Mr. Moore ; `` I supposed you knew all about it , since it is talked about everywhere . 
But do n't blame William , for he never did a better thing in all his life , and never will do a better while he lives . 
He was at the Court , at old man Haralson 's , and there was an uncommonly large gathering for the occasion . 
` I can beat you , ' said William . 
` Well , ' says William , ` suppose you try it . ' 
At the word they started , and William beat him a clear light of at least seven yards . 
`` This kind of chat , '' continued Moore , `` made Jake very mad , and as William stood laughing with the rest , Jake stept up to him , and said , ` If you can beat me running , I can whip you mighty easy . ' 
He was standing there ; and the words was no sooner out of his mouth than William seized him , fetched the hip lock upon him , and gave him the hardest fall that I ever saw a boy get in all my life . 
Before Jake could recover from his fall , William was on him , giving him bringer . 
He very soon ` told the news ' -LRB- cried ` enough ! ' -RRB- 
and William got off of him without a scratch . 
I do n't suppose there ever was a people more rejoiced and surprised than they all were at William 's doings . 
Jake had no idea that a boy dressed as fine as William was , could fight at all , nor did anybody else believe it ; but , Lord bless your soul , Captain , he walked over Jake in the highest style of fighting ! 
That would be a tacit sanction of all that William had done . 
But say something he must , and that something must be extemporized ; so he began , in a very cool tone , that might be taken for the composure of religion , or the composure of gratification : `` Why , William , I 'm astonished at you ! '' 
`` I do n't think , in any view of the case , that his saying simply , that he could whip you , justified you in attacking him -- '' `` But , Uncle , I saw that he was mad , and bent upon picking a quarrel with me , or hacking me before all the company , and I thought that as I would have to fight or back out , I 'd best take a running start on him ; for the first blow in a fight is half the battle , they say . '' 
And here , William , let me give you a caution . 
Now , William , I do n't blame you for fighting -LRB- that is , upon worldly principles -RRB- under the circumstances ; but I do blame you for going to such places -- not for going to Mr. Haralson 's , for he is a very worthy man , and has a very worthy family , but for going there in Court times . 
Now if the reader can extract from this long harangue , what were the Captain 's views of the case of Mitten vs. Black , upon Christian principles , he is certainly much wiser than the writer . 
But we will venture to say , that Master Mitten inferred from it , that the Captain was highly delighted , -LRB- but of course only on worldly principles -RRB- with his achievements , and that he need never fear the Captain 's wrath for fighting , provided he would always fight at the right time , in the right place , and for good reasons in Mr. Moore 's judgment . 
In the course of his observations , Master Mitten discovered two other things through the aid of Snap-dragon , which we must not omit to mention ; the one was , that six or seven months abstinence from strong drink , had not entirely abated his relish for it ; and the other was , that the squatter sovereigns committed many errors in their games that he could have rectified with success . 
While such customs were rife in the country , it is not to be wondered at that Master Mitten had frequent opportunities of indulging his early formed relish for ardent spirits , even without the help of Snap-dragon -- with his help they were quintupled . 
A little before this time , the Captain informed William overnight that he wished to borrow Snap-dragon for a short ride the next morning , as all his own horses were in use . 
William gave a cordial assent , of course . 
As William had never seen his uncle on Snap-dragon , and felt a deep interest in his performance under the saddle of his kind benefactor , he took his position in the inner lock of a fence on the street , under cover of some high weeds , whence , with a little change of position , he could have a full view of the Captain 's house , and two or three hundred yards of the street and road leading from it . 
Tom got to the house with Snap-dragon , about the time that William got comfortably seated . 
`` I wonder he has n't knocked William 's brains out long ago . '' 
This is nothin ' but some little foolnish Mas William larn him . 
In this way , between stops and starts , and sidles and snorts , the Captain reached home greatly to his delight , and the still greater delight of William . 
Whenthe time came for William Mitten to return to school , he begged his uncle to allow him to keep his horse at Willington . 
He thought `` that if he boarded two or three miles from the school house , and rode to school and back to his boarding house every day , his health would be greatly improved . '' 
He said , that `` if he had a horse to ride to the post office he could get and mail letters speedily -- that he often wished to go and hear Mr. Waddel preach at Rocky River Church ; but that he had no means of getting there -- that it would cost nothing hardly to keep a horse at Willington . 
Mrs. Mitten said `` that she would cheerfully bear the expense of the horse , if her brother would consent to William 's keeping him at Willington . 
That the idea of his constitution being shattered by severe study was distressing to her . 
That she had suffered no little in mind herself from the difficulty of hearing from William often through the mails , and that there was something delightful in the thought of her son going to sacred service with his preceptor . 
`` William , '' said the Captain , `` you perplex me not a little . 
The horse is yours , and I do not like to interfere with your right of property in him ; and yet , to allow you to take him off to school with you , and keep him there , knowing as I do how you have used him , seems to me little better than wilfully putting your life in jeopardy , encouraging you to idleness , pushing you into difficulties with your preceptor , and periling all my bright hopes of you at once . 
`` Why , William , '' said Mrs. Mitten , `` surely when you see your Uncle 's solicitude -- '' `` Stop , Anna ! 
My solicitude has nothing to do with the matter -- '' `` I was only going to call to William 's mind how sound your judgment had been in everything touching his interest -- '' `` Well , all that at another time . 
William 's judgment in this matter is and ought to be his guide . 
Suppose I had opened the proposition in this way : ` William , I regret that I gave you that horse . 
Now , I gave him to you unasked for ; I am your Uncle , who loves you ; who has done a great deal for you ; to whom you owe a large debt of gratitude , but for whom you would never have gone to Mr. Waddel 's school , and by consequence must have lost all the honors you have gained there ; in all which , as in many other instances , you have seen how much better my judgment is as to your true interests than yours ; now , in my judgment , the horse will do you more harm than good ; yield , therefore , to my judgment -- return my love and kindness , by giving me back the horse . ' 
Do n't you think that William ought to have a will in the matter ? '' 
You hav n't gone on with all that string of appeals to his heart ; you would not let me even speak of your better judgment ; you forewarned him not to let his decision be governed in any way by his relation to you or your kindness to him . 
He 's not a man to judge of prices , and of what will be best for him . '' 
`` Nevertheless , he has all the rights of a man in trade . 
It would be very silly in him to refuse five thousand for his horse ; but if he chose to do so , I do n't think you would force him to take it , and I am sure I would not -- '' `` Well , if he was such a simpleton as to refuse five thousand dollars for his horse , I do n't know but I would force him to take it . 
I certainly would advice him strenuously to take it . 
Have you forced him ? '' 
`` No , but he is acting upon precisely the feelings that my supposed appeals to his sensibilities would have produced . '' 
`` Now , brother , '' said Mrs. Mitten , `` do n't understand me in what I say , as interfering in the least with your authority over William , or as opposing my judgment to yours , or as raising the slightest objection to your dealing with him in this matter as you think best ; but simply as asking an explanation of you . 
William offers you his horse on your own terms ; you refuse him because he does not offer him from the right motives , or the right feelings , or something else that I do n't understand , and yet you doubt whether you will allow him to use him as he wishes to . 
`` It will be time enough to reconcile them when I come to act upon them ; but should I deem it my duty to forbid his keeping a horse at Willington , I should reconcile them just as you would in giving a toy to your child , and forbidding him to use it to the annoyance of your household , or to the injury of himself . '' 
`` But William is not now a child , and I am sure that he would obey your directions strictly in the use of him . '' 
`` And I am equally sure that William has reaped too many benefits from obedience to you , ever to disobey you again in anything . 
Now , this plan has occurred to me : September , though a fall month is always a warm , relaxing , sickly month in this climate ; and as he has been much on horse-back , during the vacation , it may injure his health to break off suddenly from this exercise , and set himself down to severe study . 
I know he has made rather a bad use of his horse during the vacation , but he ca n't do so at school . 
You have enumerated the evils you apprehend from his keeping a horse there , and that will be sufficient to guard him against them ; for he has told me over and over again , that he believed he had the best Uncle in the world ; that you had only to tell him what to do , and he would do it if it were to go to the earth 's end . 
Now give him any other orders or cautions about the horse that you think proper ; let him keep him only while the weather continues warm , and as soon as it turns cool , I will send Tom for him and fetch him home , if you say so . 
But the great benefit I promise myself from it , is William 's delightful improving trips with Mr. Waddel to his preaching places . '' 
`` William , '' said the Captain , `` retire a little , while your mother and I discuss this matter a little farther . '' 
William retired . 
`` Do you know , Anna , '' continued the Captain , `` that nothing has fallen from William in three months , which has pained me , not to say offended me , so much , as that Rocky River plea for keeping a horse ? 
`` Brother , I think the day has gone by when William would deceive ; and I am very happy in having it in my power to explain this thing to your satisfaction . 
I talked to William about his taking so little interest in the meetings , and he said that he wanted recreation after his hard study , for the long term . 
That he would soon have to renew his studies for ten long months , with only two weeks vacation at Christmas , and that if he did not improve his health in the vacation he would break down . 
That he had been to preaching in the country several times when there was preaching in town , because he could take exercise in going there . 
He will be kept constantly employed except on Saturdays and Sundays , and he would be desirous of exercising on those days and doing good at the same time . '' 
The Captain looked doubtingly , and said no more upon that head ; but he returned from the episode : `` Anna , '' said he , `` I am very anxious to accommodate you and William , but I have awful misgivings about this horse affair . 
Now , if I refuse to comply with your wishes , and by any chance in the world William should happen to get sick , you will ascribe it to my needless rigor , and carelessness about his health . 
I erred in giving him the horse , and I am not absolutely certain that after having given him , I ought to control his use of him , simply upon my apprehensions that it will be mischievous . 
Perhaps no evil will grow out of it for one short month , or a month and a half at farthest , for surely we shall have frost in that time , and by giving William proper precautions , it may be that all will turn out well at last . 
You and William will be accommodated , my doubts will be removed , -LRB- if they can be called doubts -RRB- about interfering with his right of property in the present state of things , and possibly his health may be improved , or at least preserved by it . 
Call him back and let me give him my charge . '' 
William came . 
William subscribed to the terms cheerfully , and showed by his countenance that he suffered no distress from his Uncle 's over-refinement in trade . 
On the second of September he and Tom took the road to Willington -- Tom with saddle-bags which bent upwards with stuffing . 
On reaching Willington , William selected for his boarding house one of the remotest from the school house that he could find , with any students in it . 
A single day here convinced him that he had made a great change for the better , in boarding houses . 
enquired William . 
William was in transports with his new location . 
His appearance at school on horseback , created quite a sensation among the students ; divers of whom got spunked `` for looking at William Mitten 's horse in study hours '' -- in short for being idle , but in detail as just stated . 
As Doctor Waddel was about mounting old Hector , at 12 o'clock on the second day after William 's return , he saw William riding Snap-dragon , to water , and he joined him . 
`` William , '' said the Doctor , `` have you quit boarding at Mr. Newby 's ? '' 
The Doctor cleared his throat sadly and prophetically , and proceeded : `` That horse , William , is going to bring you into trouble , and I advise you to write to your mother immediately to send for him and take him away ; and I advise you to get back to Mr. Newby 's as soon as possible . '' 
`` Is your name upon either of these beech-trees , William ? '' 
`` There it is , '' said William as they approached a beech . 
Do you keep a pocket-book , William ? '' 
I have a deep interest in you William , and so has your country . 
William did not move from the spot where Doctor Waddel left him , for five minutes . 
But Master Mitten had as yet only a horse , and at worst according to Waddel , he was only one-third of the way to nothing . 
And why did it distress him so much more to find William boarding at Mr. -- 's , than Smith and Jones ? 
He saw at once that William had changed his lodging only for the pleasure of riding his horse every day . 
That his horse would necessarily employ much of his time , that might be much better disposed of , and be constantly engaging him in pleasure rides , or vicerides , when he ought to be at his books . 
He felt almost certain that ere long that horse would bring him on the monitor 's bill , and he disliked exceedingly to give a promising boy his first whipping ; because he knew that half the stimulus to close study and good order would be taken from him by his first whipping . 
No wonder that he had most gloomy forebodings when he saw a youth of William 's tender age , and bright promise , placed in daily and nightly intercourse with them . 
On the evening of the fifth , William Mitten reported to Smith and Jones all that had passed between the Doctor and himself ; wondering how the Doctor could be so much concerned about his horse and his boarding at Newby 's . 
`` Oh yes , '' said William , `` I see into it . 
`` Read that paper , '' said William . 
`` I thought I 'd go , next Saturday and Sunday , with Mr. Waddel , if he goes , to Rocky River Church ; I must go one time -- '' Here William 's words were drowned , by most obstreporous laughter from his companions . 
William 's class usually recited to one of the Assistants , but the next morning it was called before Doctor Waddel . 
The Doctor arranged the order of recitation , so as to throw the last part of the lesson to William . 
He had not been over it , and he bungled shamefully . 
`` Why , William , '' said the Doctor , `` what 's the matter with you ? 
William was excessively mortified , and his classmates no less surprised . 
After the class retired , William enquired of Doctor Waddel , whether he preached at Rocky River , the next Sabbath . 
Saturday came , and William , at an early hour after breakfast , was off to Vienna to mail a letter . 
As the letter was written only to be mailed , it of course was not written in his usual diffuse , florid style ; but what it lost in beauty , grace and polish , it gained in conciseness , nerve and point . 
The merchant knew William at sight as the youth who had distinguished himself so much at the exhibition , and he naturally felt pained to see a boy of his talents engaged in such a dangerous traffic . 
Hence his remark , which produced from William one lie and two truths , in consolidated form . 
He bought the cards for himself , the brandy for Smith , and the tobacco for Jones . 
`` What , '' said he to William , `` with all Saturday , and all Monday morning to get your lesson in , come up here and know nothing about it , sir ! 
This service over , he hauled a tickler out of his pocket , and said : `` William Mitten come forward ! '' 
William just had strength to step forward , and that was all . 
As for Jones and Smith , nobody cared for them , but the whole school sympathized with William . 
They laid all his faults to them , -LRB- rather more than was due to them by the way , -RRB- and rejoiced at the retribution that was in reserve for them . 
William leading his horse , and both weeping bitterly . 
Here they stopped , and William broke silence : `` Gilbert , '' said he , `` nothing gave me so much pain in leaving Mr. Newby 's as parting with you . 
`` I will leave you , William , if you talk in that way ; and , much as I love you , I must drop your acquaintance , if you use such language . '' 
half shrieked William . 
What does that mean , William ? '' 
`` He knows -- he will tell you . 
Gilbert went immediately with the letter to Doctor Waddel , and delivered it with William 's message . 
If ever there was a boy of more brilliant promise than William Mitten , three months ago , I do n't think I ever saw him . 
And where is he now ! 
`` Mr. Waddel , what did William mean by the beech ? '' 
At a proper time , I will write to his uncle , -- or mother , to send him back . 
His heart 's in the right place still , and he may yet be the pride of his mother , the boast of his teacher , and the glory of his country . '' 
William wended his way to his boarding house , slowly and sadly . 
On reaching it , he went in and informed the landlord of the distressing tidings from home , and that he would leave at the dawn in the morning . 
He refused supper , and walked towards the study , near the steps of which Smith and Jones were standing . 
The words were hardly out of his mouth , before the onset of William 's fight with Black was renewed precisely ; but not with precisely the same results . 
In his fall , Smith 's head struck the corner of a step , and he came senseless to the ground . 
Jones , supposing that he was only a little stunned by the fall , and that he would soon rally and give William a tremendons beating , -LRB- just what he desired -RRB- did not interpose . 
William supposed so too , -LRB- i. c. , that he would soon rise , -RRB- and he resolved to improve the interim to the best advantage . 
It was in vain that Jones cried out `` for God 's sake , Mitten , stop , he 's dead ! '' 
`` If he is n't dead , I 'll kill him , '' said Mitten . 
Rising from the body , he stamped Smith in the face with his heavy nail-pegged shoes , and was in the act of repeating the injury , when the landlord and Tom both seized him and forced him into the house . 
In a half hour 's time William became cool , and surrendered himself to grief again . 
A bed was prepared for him in the house , his trunk was brought in , he washed , changed his bloody clothes for clean ones , packed such as he needed in the saddle-bags , sent Tom to attend to the horses , and threw himself on the bed to wait , in tears , the coming dawn . 
It was further arranged that Smith should give Mitten a sound dressing over-night , because he had not managed his purchases in Petersburg with sufficient cunning ; because he had not extemporized lies according to his talents , under Waddel 's examination ; because he had told the truth where he ought to have told lies , and bungled even at the truth , and because `` he wanted whipping anyhow . '' 
There was a short debate between them as to which should have the pleasure of chastising William . 
From what had passed between him and Smith , there was a fair implication that if Smith did not whip William , he would ; and though Smith might not hold him responsible for the implied pledge , he would be very apt to hold him responsible for allowing William to beat him while he was in a state of insensibility . 
William 's retiring remark , too , made him feel very uncomfortable ; for though he had done nothing to incur his wrath but sympathise with Smith in everything , and drop one disrespectful remark about William 's uncle , already atoned for , it was plain that William 's mind was not in a condition to allow the proper credits , in closing up his uncle 's claims . 
He was very certain that William would sleep none that night , and if he should conclude to come out a little before day and give him a parting blessing when all were asleep but the two , it would be -- very ill-timed , to say the least of it . 
`` Did n't Mitten clinch me ? 
In this way Smith was quieted , dropped to sleep , and did not wake until an hour by sun the next morning , when William was ten miles on his way homeward . 
William 's purchase in Petersburg soon became the town talk , for almost everybody in town knew him as the bright boy of the exhibition , and everybody deplored the indications of ruin that his purchases gave . 
He went immediately to Mitten 's room , where he found the cards and tickler unconcealed , and surprised Mitten with them , as we have seen . 
Thus did he possess himself of the few facts , from which he drew out of William all that the trio had done after the cards and brandy reached their room . 
He explained to young Hay , according to his promise , William 's reference to the beech , the import of which William fully understood after his disgrace . 
Captain Thompson breathed his last but a few minutes before William reached his habitation . 
We need hardly say that he died happily -- he died triumphantly -- not shouting , simply because in his last moments , he had not strength to shout , but whispering `` Glory , Glory , Glory ! '' 
William 's entry into the death-chamber , served but to embitter the griefs of all who filled it . 
A little while before Captain Thompson expired , he said , `` I have been looking anxiously for William -- I wished to give him my last counsels , as I have given them to the older children , -LSB- his own and his sister 's -RSB- but it is now too late . 
Tell him , Anna , my last words to him were , ` Love , honor , cherish and obey your mother . '' ' 
He returned and reported to Mrs. Mitten that William needed medical aid , for that `` he was quite unwell . '' 
She hastened to his bed side with the physician , and found him in a high fever . 
He was prescribed for , and carried home as soon as possible . 
After an illness of two weeks , William Mitten recovered , and at the end of four , his health was entirely restored . 
About this time , his mother said to him : `` William , is n't it time for you to think of returning to Dr. Waddel 's ? '' 
`` Mother , '' said he , `` I can never go back to Dr. Waddel 's . '' 
`` William , in mercy to me , tell me quickly , why ? '' 
William , let me know the worst -- do n't keep me a moment longer in suspense , if you have any respect for me -- I may he able to survive the disclosure , if you make it immediately : I may not be able to survive it , if you keep me a few days in this agony of suspense . '' 
William gave his mother a full and truthful account of all the difficulties in which his horse had involved him . 
When he had concluded , she resumed : `` I was sure that things had been going wrong with you , from the brief letter you wrote , and which did not reach me until some days after your return . 
`` Well , William , you have learned from short , but sad experience , the consequences of vice ; and now abanden it forever . 
`` Mercy on me , William ! 
Indeed , he has some noble traits of character , which almost entirely conceal his faults from the eyes of the public and his school-fellows -- I say the public , for though it is a very uncommon thing for the public to know or notice school-boy delinquencies , yet so wide-spread was William 's reputation from his performances at our last Examination and Exhibition , that every one who knows him takes an interest in him , and every one , I believe , regards him with more of sympathy than censure . 
All would rejoice , I doubt not , to hear of his return to the school , and his return to his good habits . 
I have reason to believe that William would cheerfully submit to the punishment of his faults , even though it were much severer than it will be , if that would restore him to his lost position ; now , I can hardly conceive of anything better calculated to have that effect , than his volunteering to take the punishment which he knows awaits him on his return , when he might perchance avoid it by abandoning the school . 
But with or without the punishment , he has only to be , for ten months , what he has been for nearly as many , to regain the confidence of everybody . 
But , William , as these are the only terms upon which you can get back and save your credit , I think you had better go . 
`` Oh , William , you make Mr. Waddel a perfect enigma ; how could a man of his kindness of heart , be so inhuman ! '' 
`` Yes , William , if he were alive , and felt convinced that your future destiny hung upon it , you would have to go . 
He would have reasoned with you , he would have persuaded you , at first ; but if he found these means unavailing , he would have carried you back to school at all hazards . 
I can not do what he might have done . 
`` William , my feelingsare against your going , but my convictionsare strong and pungent that you ought to go . 
Now the truth of the matter is , that though Master Mitten , while suffering the first tortures of his exposed guilt , and supposed disgrace , would very readily have submitted to a severe whipping , to have regained his lost ground ; as he became more familiar with his disgrace , it began to set very easily on him , while the whippingassumed a new interest in his cogitations , and became more and more imposing , as the disgrace became less and less distressing : so that when the consultation occurred which we have just noticed , the whipping crowded clean out of Master Mitten 's mind , every other consideration . 
We opine that if Mrs. Brown had been in the place of Mrs. Mitten , and Master John in the place of Master William , she would have given him , the said John , such a `` cawhalloping , '' that Dr. Waddel 's best `` fifteen '' would have been a Charlotte-russe to it . 
No alternative was now left to Mrs. Mitten but to procure a clerkship for William in some store of the village . 
`` Well , I would be very glad if you would take my son William -- '' `` Your son William , Mrs. Mitten ! 
A store , in such a place as this , is a very dangerous place for a youth of William 's age . 
I never could forgive myself if I should take him into my store at his tender age , and he should turn out badly -- '' `` But he will be constantly under your eye and mine , Mr. Sanders . '' 
But young Dally was the son of a widow -- and -- so is William ; and thus far the cases are alike . 
And , you see , moreover , besides , Mrs. Mitten , you would never be satisfied with the wages for William that I gave young Dally -- '' `` I do n't care , Mr. Sanders , if you give him no wages at all -- '' `` Oh , bless my soul , Mrs. Mitten , that would never do ! 
William would never be satisfied to see other boys in town , not half as smart as he is , getting two or three times as much as he gets -- and I should n't blame him at all . 
Besides , I ca n't think of fixing his wages myself . 
If I take him , it must be under contract with you , in which his wages must be settled to our mutual satisfaction . 
William must have nothing to do with it . 
Now what would you be willing to take for his services ? '' 
Does William understand Arithmetic pretty well ? 
William was prompt to Mr. Sanders ' appointed hour . 
`` Well , William , '' said Mr. Sanders , `` your mother tells me you are going to quit school , and take to clerking . 
Why , William , you were cut out for something greater than a counter-hopper . 
Now , William , take an old man 's advice ; return to school , complete your education , study law , be studious , be moral , and by and by you 'll never get done thanking me for stopping you in the course you are now pursuing . '' 
`` Mr. Sanders , '' said William , `` I 've heard my talents spoken of and praised ever since I was a child , and instead of doing me any good , they have done me nothing but harm -- '' `` Oh , my son , the time has n't come yet for you to reap the benefits of your talents . 
`` My mind is made up , Mr. Sanders , '' said William , `` and if you will not employ me , I must seek a place elsewhere . '' 
`` Of course not , '' said William . 
The question was no sooner asked , than William answered it by his head without touching pencil to slate . 
Mr. Sanders took the slate , ciphered it up , found the answer correct , rubbed out his calculation , and returned the slate to William , saying , `` Very well done , my son ; but that 's head-work , and it wo n't do to keep merchants ' accounts by the head ; do it on the slate . '' 
William did it on the slate in less time than Mr. Sanders did it . 
William gave the answer promptly , not by his head , but according to Pike . 
`` Very well , William ! 
William soon presented the answer . 
William reviewed it . 
`` Yes , it is right , Mr. Sanders , '' said William . 
Sanders looked over it again and acknowledged his error . 
`` Well , William , '' said Mr. Sanders , `` I will put a few more questions to you and then release you . 
William gave the answer correctly . 
He put down upon the slate `` & dollar ; 567 1/4 '' and handed it to William . 
`` There , '' said he , `` give me the interest on that sum for a month and a half , at eight per cent . '' 
William took the slate , placed a dot to the right of the first figure and handed it back , saying `` there 's the answer sir -- six dollars , sixty-seven and a quarter cents . '' 
Mr. Sanders went over the sum in the common way , while William stood chuckling . 
When he brought out the result just as William had it , he looked at him with perfect amazement . 
`` Well , William , '' said he , `` I believe you are the smartest boy at figures that I ever saw in all my life . '' 
`` No , '' said Mr. D. , `` I was trying William on arithmetic , to see if he would answer for a clerk for us . '' 
`` Why brother , there never was a Dally to compare with William Mitten at figures ! 
I verily believe he is better than both of us put together . 
Could n't you get off from your engagement with Mrs. Dally , so that we may employ William ? '' 
`` Well , William , '' said Mr. D. Sanders , `` you see how it is -- we shall have to give you up . 
William went home and related all that had passed between him and Mr. D. Sanders . 
`` Well , was there ever such an unlucky mortal born , William , as you are ! '' 
On Mr. Dillon 's return home , which was two days and a half after his `` absquatulation , '' Mrs. Mitten waited on him to know if he would not employ her son . 
Mrs. Mitten now made application to every other merchant in town , but they were all supplied with clerks ; they all spoke , however , in the highest terms of William 's talents . 
Mr. Markham , hearing of her disappointment , called upon Mrs. Mitten and proposed to her to let William go on with his cousin David , George Markham , and John Brown , and fit himself for college under Doctor Finley , a celebrated teacher at Basken Ridge , New Jersey . 
`` If , '' said Mr. Markham , `` William will apply himself closely to the study of Greek and Mathematics , -LRB- the only studies in which he is deficient , -RRB- he will be able to enter the Freshman class in six months with case , I am certain . '' 
Aboutnine days before the time appointed for Masters Thompson , Markham , Brown and Mitten to leave for the North , Mr. Beach , a celebrated manufacturer of vehicles , in Newark , New Jersey , came to the village , on a collecting tour through the State of Georgia . 
It was exceedingly mortifying to William to find himself under the necessity of going through a preparatory course in order to enter the Freshman class , when his old schoolmates were all honorably admitted into the next higher class ; and he determined to make amends for lost time by assiduity in study . 
His first letter to his mother spoke in highest terms of Mr. Finley and his `` charming family ; '' and the first letter of Mr. Finley to Mrs. Mitten was not less complimentary to William . 
At the end of five months , his teacher pronounced him fully prepared for the Freshman class , put in his hand a very flattering certificate , and dispatched him to College . 
Instead of presenting his certificate to the President , and making application for admission into the Freshman class , he excogitated a brilliant scheme , not altogether original , to be sure , but highly creditable to his ingenuity , whereby he was to get into the Sophomore class without the needful preparation for it . 
The President , after gravely taking his dimensions with the eye , to the manifest terror of Master Mitten , said : `` The JuniorClass , now more than half advanced ! 
William answered . 
He answered again . 
`` Well , Master Mitten , Ithink , ` may be ' you can enter no class in College . 
`` Well , sir , '' said William , with a spirit of accommodation truly commendable , `` I 'll try for that class . '' 
Here William 's usual bad luckattended him , for his ingenuity had exposed him to agonizing mortification , betrayed him into a falsehood , and , as he well knew , made the President 's first impressions of him very unfavorable . 
William followed Mr. Markham 's advice strictly through the Freshman year , and for four months of the Sophomore year , and the consequence was as usual ; he stood at the head of the class . 
William 's report of himself was fully confirmed by his fellow-students of the village . 
He wrote also an affectionate letter to Doctor Waddel , thanking him for his many kindnesses , approving of all his dealings with him , and censuring himself for his rejection of his counsels , and disobedience to his rules . 
Before this letter reached his old Preceptor , William 's fame and prospects in College had reached the school , where all considered themselves interested in his reputation , and all rejoiced . 
But that he partook of the general feeling to some extent , was manifest ; for he never took a chew of tobacco and grunted when William was praised . 
Up to the close of the fourth month of Master Mitten 's Sophomore year , he had almost entirely neglected Mr. Markham 's advice touching his recreation hours ; indeed , he hardly allowed himself any recreation hours : but occasional visits to a beautiful little Princeton lassie , by the name of Amanda Ward , reminded him forcibly of his remissness in this particular , and he resolved forthwith to amend his ways . 
William 's interest in her increased with every visit to her , and his `` recreation hours '' began to increase with his interest . 
The necessary consequence was , that his study hoursbecame more arduous . 
Still he maintained his reputation and his place in his class , with only a hardly perceptible change , in the promptness and fluency with which he disposed of his recitations . 
Soon after his first visit to Miss Amanda , William 's talents were made known to her , as well as his fortune , which was represented to be something under the square of what it really was . 
She was quite too young and too romantic to have anything venal in her composition , and , as his handsome person , brilliant talents and interesting conversation began to win upon her affections , she became touchingly pensive . 
By as much as she lost her vivacity , by so much did William 's interest in her increase . 
He loved her before , and now he sympathized with her deeply and tenderly . 
Under the combined force of love , sympathy , anxiety and suspense , William 's spirits forsook him , he became sad and gloomy , and study became irksome to him . 
Late sittings with Miss Amanda , and then much later sittings to make up the lost time , began to make inroads upon William 's health , and all his fair prospects would probably have been blighted before the close of the term , had he not determined to act upon conjecture as to Miss Ward 's anguish of mind . 
He judged , not without good reason , that it proceeded from love to him , and that she was wasting away under the consuming passion , because she supposed that it was not reciprocated . 
He resolved , therefore , with becoming frankness to unbosom himself to her and offer her his hand . 
Accordingly , at their next interview , he thus addressed her : `` Miss Ward , you know that I am not blind to your despondency , and , by a thousand proofs , you know that I am not indifferent to it . 
At length she spoke : `` Mister Mitten , your noble nature assures me that I may trust the dearest secret of my heart to you , without fear that you will ever betray the trust , under any changes of feeling , time or place . 
ejaculated Mister Mitten . 
`` Amanda , you are my first love -- '' `` And you are mine , William . 
`` Amanda , '' said William , in tears , `` you said you would entrust the dearest secret of your heart to me : tell me then what insuperable obstacle there is to our union ? '' 
`` I never violate my promise , dearest William , I am told that you are very , very rich ; and never can I consent to marry a man with whom I can not be upon an equality , -- a man who must ever feel that he stopped to take his partner 's hand ; and who may suppose that the poor trash of earth , called wealth , had some influence upon her choice . 
`` These noble sentiments , '' responded Mister Mitten , `` exalt you higher , if possible , in my estimation , than ever . 
Do n't trifle with my feelings , William ! '' 
`` William , there is my hand , and with it a heart that idolizes you , if you choose to take them . '' 
`` I receive them , '' said William , `` and exchange for them a hand and heart equally warm and unwavering . '' 
Fortunately for William this interview occurred on Friday night ; or it would have played the mischief with his next day 's recitation . 
The next day William visited Miss Amanda to arrange for the nuptials ; and however indiscreet and rash we may consider the engagement , everybody must accord to them the highest prudence in settling the preliminaries of the nuptials . 
The arrangement was that MisterMitten -LRB- so we must now call him , as he is engaged to be married -RRB- should go on and complete his education , return to Georgia and spend two or three months with his family , then go to Litchfield , Connecticut , and attend Judge Reeves ' Law Lectures for one year , revisit Georgia , get admitted to the bar as soon as possible , return to Princeton , and consummate the marriage . 
For my part , I shall make no secret of our engagement , and then if any man dare to pay you particular attentions , I shall hold him personally responsible -- '' `` Oh , William , my dearest William , do not think of such a thing ! 
Oh , William , I can not bear a frown , I can not bear even a cold look from my dear , sweet parents ; and how would it rend my heart to see them frown on you or receive you distantly -- '' `` And does Miss Ward suppose that her parents would object to our alliance ? 
-- '' `` No , no , William : I 'm sure they will be delighted with it , at the proper time ; but think how young we are ! 
And suppose another should address me ; does my William think that there is another in this wide world who can make the least impression on his Amanda 's heart ? 
No , William , whether you remain true or false , never , never , can I love another . 
But what agony did the disclosure give me -- you 'll never mention it , William ? '' 
There , William , you are entrusted with every secret of my heart . '' 
Mitten consented . 
A round of parties ensued , all of which he attended , and at all of which he played havoc with the hearts of the girls of Morristown . 
From his class-mate the report soon spread through the village , that he was the first scholar in his class , and immensely rich . 
These things conspiring with his fine person , graceful manners , and agreeable conversation , made him absolutely irresistible . 
Miss Green and Mr. Mitten being both from the South , naturally formed a strong partiality for each other ; of course it did not amount to love on William 's part , but it amounted to love palpably , on Louisa 's part . 
As she was from the South , William felt himself bound to pay her particular attentions . 
Accordingly he did all that he could to make her time pass agreeably during his stay in Morristown . 
He could but observe the tokens of her favor , and they awakened in him a tender compassion . 
She had appointed to visit a school-mate in Elizabethtown , five days after the time when he was to leave for Newark . 
He offered to wait and accompany her . 
This threw him five days longer on his friend 's hospitality , than he contracted for , but he was welcome . 
She accepted his offer thankfully . 
They went -- he was introduced to her young friend , who prevailed upon him to spend two or three days in Elizabethtown . 
He consented -- parties commenced on the second day after his arrival , and were kept up with but short intervals for nine days . 
He had set every day for the last six , for leaving Elizabethtown , but something or other always delayed his departure . 
As this jumped with William 's plaus exactly , and promised to make his visit to New York pleasurable infinitely beyond his anticipations , he proposed to accompany the young ladies . 
They accepted his proposition with pleasure . 
Time had run off so merrily that he had not kept count of it , and he was thunderstruck when a question put to him about the college , reminded him that the term opened on the day before he was to leave with his fair companions for New York . 
What was he to do ? 
Violate his pledge to the young ladies ? 
He determined to conduct them to New York , and hasten on to College . 
When he came to settle up his bills in Elizabethtown , he was thunderstruck again ; they were four times as large as he anticipated , and in counting up his cash , he found that he had barely enough left to take him to New York and back to Princeton . 
After a visit of an hour , `` Mr. Beach , '' said William , `` I have been out spending the vacation , and my expenses have been so much heavier than I expected , that I have got out of money ; could you favor me so far as to loan me thirty dollars , and I will give you an order on Mr. Sanders for the amount , or I will send it to you as soon as I get back to college . '' 
`` Certainly , William , '' said Mr. Beach , `` I will take the order , and if you pay it when you get to college , I will send it to you . 
The money was loaned , and William returned to Elizabethtown rejoicing . 
On their way to New York he suggested to Miss Green that the college term had opened and that on the day after their arrival in New York , he would be compelled to return to college . 
William proposed a friendlycorrespondence ad interim.She said she could not promise that , as the pupils of her school were forbidden to correspond with young gentlemen ; but if he chose to write to her she had no objections . 
William had never seen a play acted by professed performers , and `` as he had overstayed his time any how , and one day more could not make much difference , '' he determined to prolong his visit that far , and take the ladies to the theatre . 
He procured tickets for the three young ladies , but as the father of the one whom the others were visiting , chose to accompany them all to the theatre , and furnish tickets himself , William had two on hand either to use or throw away at his option . 
He was transported with the performance . 
Hamlet was announced for the next night ; but as the ladies declined going to the theatre two nights in succession , he went alone . 
Macbeth was announced for the next night ; and as all the girls must see this play , they went as before ; William accompanying . 
The day following he left for Princeton , and reached there with just seventy-five cents in his pocket . 
His class-mate of Morristown -LRB- Johnsonby name -RRB- brought down his history to his departure from that village . 
`` He went off , '' said Johnson , `` after a beautiful accomplished South Carolina heiress , worth a cool hundred thousand in cash , with kinky-headsaccording ; and he has only to stretch out his hand to her and she 'll snatch at it ; for everybody sees that she is over head and ears in love with him , as indeed all the girls in Morristown are ; for Bill is death among the pullets . '' 
This report mitigated the anxiety of his Georgian companions concerning him , but did not entirely relieve them ; for they feared the consequences of William 's change of habits , not only upon his stand in College , but upon his future life . 
We have said that he had four competitors for the first honor , but there was only one of them that he had cause to dread , for though the five were equal in mathematics , there was but one who approached him in the other studies . 
When at the opening of the term , the class appeared to recite in mathematics , and Taliaferro found Mitten absent , his countenance kindled with delight . 
And yet if William had determined to do it , he could have made up his deficiencies before the end of the Junior year , and thrown Taliaferro far in his rear in the Senior year . 
Having followed Mitten 's movements during the vacation , let us now unveil some of his thoughts and reflections accompanying these movements . 
She said `` she had been meditating suicide , but she could not leave the world without one more last , longing , lingering look upon her William . '' 
From New York William had written a letter to his mother , setting forth that he had greatly miscalculated , in saying that five hundred dollars per annum would be amply sufficient to pay his College expenses . 
Brown 's letter had a fortnight or more the start of William 's , and its contents were known to everybody in the village in three days after it had reached Mr. Markham . 
When William 's letter therefore reached home , it alarmed and distressed his mother exceedingly . 
She gathered the money as soon as she possibly could , -LRB- borrowing a part of it -RRB- and dispatched it to William , with a letter eloquently expressive of her feelings . 
By the shortest possible course of mail , William could not receive an answer to his letter in less than a month from its date . 
In the meantime he must he shut out of College , if he could not raise the tuition fees at least . 
His only course was to borrow . 
He went to his cousin David , who loaned him fifteen dollars , all `` he had over , '' as the merchants say . 
He went to Markham , and he loaned him twenty , saying `` this is all I have , but go to Brown , I know he has over fifty dollars , for we compared notes when we got back to College . '' 
He went to Brown and asked the loan of fifteen dollars . 
`` William , '' said Brown , `` I would loan it to you with a great deal of pleasure , but I have it not -- here are three dollars , all I 've got , which you are welcome to , if it will be of any service to you . '' 
William looked on him furiously and said -- `` Brown , if I do n't raise fifteen dollars , I ca n't get back into College , and I know you have that much , and three times that much . '' 
`` William , I give you my word and honor I have but three dollars in the world . 
If there 's anything I have , by sale of which you can raise the amount , go take it and sell it , with all my heart -- '' William wheeled off in a rage , and hastened to Thompson and Markham , saying `` Who could believe it possible , that John Brown would see me shut out of college , rather than loan me fifteen dollars ! 
`` Look at his countenance , '' whispered William . 
`` John Brown , '' said Thompson , `` did you tell cousin William that you had n't fifteen dollars in the world ? '' 
`` I do not wish to tell , but in a way that all of you would approve off if I were to tell you -- indeed I do not know myself as yet , how it went -- '' `` Did you ever hear such chat , '' said William , `` from anybody but an idiot since you were born ! 
`` Stop , boys , '' said Brown , with streaming eyes , `` and I will explain -- '' `` We want no explanations , sir , '' said William . 
He saw himself deserted by the sons of his benefactors -- he knew that they all believed that he had lied , and he knew that before the morrow 's sun , it would be trumpeted all through the College that the bright Mitten was kept from his class by his meanness . 
In the midst of his horrors , the bell summoned him to recitation . 
The class was arranged alphabetically , and his name was the first on the list . 
Thompson borrowed the fifteen dollars for William , and he joined his class . 
As soon as William read it , he hastened to Thompson and Markham 's room with it , handed it to his cousin , flung himself into a seat , dropped his forehead , hands-covered on his knees , and wept bitterly . 
`` John , '' said William , `` I beg your pardon ten thousand times -- '' `` And I. '' `` And I. '' `` John , '' said William , '' `` how could you say , you did n't know as yet how your money went ? '' 
`` John , '' continued William , `` I never shall forgive myself for my treatment of you . 
I had some apology for suspecting you of insincerity , but I had none for that vile , unfeeling , brutal remark of mine -- '' `` What remark , William ? '' 
William paid the sums borrowed and his board ; and now the merchants , tailors , shoe-makers and jewelers began to press him . 
The balance of his two hundred dollars , save fifteen reserved went in less than a fortnight , without paying more than fifty cents on the dollar of his debts . 
Youth-like , he thought more of the annoyances of creditors than of their respective claims upon his honor , and Mr. Beach was postponed to the most ravenous . 
The Professor rose , dressed himself , and went to Mitten 's room door -- listened awhile and knocked . 
`` Walk in , '' said Mitten . 
The Professor stepped in , found a table set out in the middle of the room , with two candles on it , burnt down nearly to the socket -- two fellows on Mitten 's bed with all their clothes on , fast asleep -- two more in his room-mate 's bed , covered over with a counterpane , except as to the heel of one boot -- another just undressing to go to bed under same counterpane -LRB- at least he was near that bed -RRB- -- another seated at the table studying the Greek Lexicon -- while Mr. Mitten , who opened the door , was pacing the room in manifest indignation . 
`` Well , sir , '' said Mitten , `` I hope you have nosed about a dormitory in which you have no business , to your satisfaction . '' 
`` Well , sir , '' continued Mitten , `` I think I can convince the Faculty , and if not the Faculty , the Trustees , that you have no right to be poking about another Professor 's dormitory of nights . '' 
`` Mitten , '' said the President , `` you are charged with keeping a disorderly room -- with keeping intoxicating liquors in your room -- with drinking intoxicating liquors -- with playing cards , and with insulting Professor Plus on Friday night last . '' 
`` May I be permitted , '' enquired Mitten , `` to ask upon what evidence these charges are brought against me ? '' 
I endured it for about an hour , when I rose , dressed myself , went out , and found that the noise proceeded from Mitten 's room . 
` But for Mitten 's Jack of Hearts , ' said a voice that I took to be Johnson 's , ` I should have taken the pool . 
` It 's Mitten 's deal , ' said another . 
`` President S **** , '' said Mitten , `` suppose a Professor of this Institution should take up a strong prejudice against a student , should seek all opportunities of mortifying him and wounding his feelings , and in order to bring him before the Faculty , plainly and palpably violate the laws of College -- has the student any redress , and how ? '' 
`` Before I answer the last charge , '' continued Mitten , `` I beg leave to read a law of the College : ` One of the Professors shall room in each dormitory , whose special duty it shall be to visit the rooms , and keep order therein . ' 
`` I mentioned no names , '' said Mitten , `` and if the cap fits -- '' `` I hope , '' said Professor Plus , smiling in common with the other Professors , `` I hope that the young gentleman will be permitted to finish his speech . 
`` You have called upon Marshall , Morton and myself to recite oftener , than any other three students in the class , '' said Mitten . 
Now as Mitten 's name stands right between Marshall 's and Morton 's , and in the middle of the class , I commonly begin at him , if I do not commence at either extreme , and if I go up from him , Morton will not be called -- if I go down , Marshall will not be . 
Time was , when Mitten regarded it no persecution to be called on often to recite . '' 
Mitten retired very much incensed , and appealed , not to the Trustees , but to his fellow-students , for justice . 
Nine espoused his cause . 
`` William , '' said he , `` had you followed Mr. Markham 's advice , you would have taken the first honor in your class ; but instead of that , you have disgraced yourself , disgraced me , and got five more of your fellow students expelled . 
Thompson followed his better judgment ; and the Faculty , in consideration of his previous good conduct -- that he had never been charged with an offence before -- and that he was nearly related to Mitten , and therefore exposed to peculiar temptation from him , commuted the punishment from expulsion to three weeks ' suspension . 
`` It only gives me , dear William , '' said she , `` an opportunity of proving the sincerity of my attachment . 
As the ivy clings to the beauteous column , whether erect , careening , or prostrate , so my heart 's affections cling to my William , through all the changes of life . 
William looked up to the ceiling , as if he expected to see the gold chain up there ; and Amanda took his upturned eyes as an indication of heavenly aspirations , and wept . 
`` I must tear myself from you , Amanda , '' said William , presenting his hand and lips . 
She threw her arms around him , and then he threw his arms around her . 
She dropped her head upon his bosom and wept . 
William covered his face with his handkerchief , blew his nose twice , sympathetically , heaved theatrically , and waited a sign that the tragedy was over . 
But as no sign came , he said : `` We must part , Amanda . 
Here an honest tear filled his eye , conscience stung him , shame reddened his checks , and he gave her a strong , remorse-forced embrace , and torehimself from her , in truth . 
As he left the door , he muttered : `` Love like that deserves a better return . 
He reached his room , paced it awhile in anguish , then seated himself and wrote : `` My dearest Louisa -- Ill health drives me from college -- '' `` Another lie ! '' 
said he , flinging down the pen and rising furiously . 
`` How sin begets sin , '' continued he , with hurried strides over the room . 
It was long before he could return to his letter ; and when he did , it was only to add : `` To-morrow , I leave for Georgia , whence you will hear from me more fully and more affectionately , on my arrival . '' 
`` There , '' said he , `` there is my last lie , at least . 
He set out for Georgia the next day , and reached home without delay or accident . 
One of the physicians withdrew to William 's room : `` William , '' said he , `` for your mother 's sake I enquire of you , what brought you home so soon ? '' 
`` I was expelled from College , '' said William . 
`` William , '' continued the Doctor , `` if you tell your mother that , I 'm confident she will not survive it an hour . 
`` Why , William , you shock me ! '' 
`` Compose yourself , William , and if we send for you , approach your mother with as much self-composure as possible -- '' Just here the Doctor was sent for in haste . 
`` Let William and Mr. Markham remain , '' said she . 
Be as you have been for a few years past , and as you would have ever been but for my folly , a father to my boy ; and , William , regard Mr. Markham as your father , and follow his counsels in all things . 
Give me your hand and kneel , William . 
As they bowed , William thought of Mr. Markham 's parting prayer , and the counsels that preceded it , of his abuses of those counsels , and the bitter consequences ; and his bosom heaved with indescribable emotions . 
His mother gave his hand a quick emphatic pressure at every petition , which she would have him notice particularly . 
Mr. Markham and William rose , turned their eyes to the gentle sufferer , and saw on her countenance every mark of immediate dissolution . 
They called for the Doctors -- they came , and reached her bed just in time to hear her last words : `` William -- meet me in -- '' The sentence was never finished . 
William took his room , and never left it for near a month , save to tread pensively the walks of the garden . 
At the end of a fortnight , he addressed a letter to Miss Green , reporting his mother 's death , and telling her that she was the last and strongest tie that bound him to earth , and his only hope of heaven . 
In due time he received an answer , expressing the tenderest sympathy for him in his bereavement , and concluding as follows : `` I have been tormented by strange reports concerning you which I can not , I will not believe , until they receive some confirmation from your own lips . 
Miss Green ` sletter filled Mitten 's bosom with horror . 
`` What a thoughtless fool I was , '' said he , `` to write that useless lie to her ! 
He did so , and indeed , made the most of his case that could be made of it . 
The answer came : `` Mr. William Mitten -- Sir : Your dismissal from College , and your misrepresentation to me , I could forgive ; but I never can forgive your addresses to me , while you were actually engaged to Miss Amanda Ward . 
exclaimed he , flinging down the letter . 
The engagement came to Miss Green 's ears on this wise : Mitten 's attentions to Miss Ward were notorious ; and her disrelish for any society but his was equally notorious . 
The report went abroad that William had broken his mother 's heart . 
Mrs. Mitten 's health had begun to decline before William 's troubles began , and it is probable that she would not have survived a month longer than she did , had William remained at Princeton . 
But she had become uneasy at the silence of his College companions , concerning him , for some months past . 
The tone of his letters had changed alarmingly . 
Then his heavy draft on her for money , increased her alarms . 
Anderson 's remarks also became town talk , as soon as it was known that Mitten had `` backed down '' in the `` third heat . '' 
He went to Anderson in a great rage . 
`` I understand , sir , '' said he , `` that you have been making very free with my name in my absence . '' 
`` Never mind , Mitten , '' said one of the ancients : `` as soon as you get possession of your property , these very men who are shying off from you now , and whispering all sorts of things about you , will be truckling to you like hound-puppies . 
`` Well , '' said a young one , `` I 'm glad to see Mitten 's independence . 
`` Mitten , '' said a third , `` we are going into Thew 's back room to amuse ourselves with a game of cards for an hour or so ; where shall we find you when we come out ? '' 
`` Why , '' said William , `` I 'll go in with you . '' 
`` Well , '' continued William , `` I 'll go in and see you play , but I will not play myself , for I have suffered enough from card-playing for one lifetime I know . '' 
William went in , and kept his word . 
At length William began to spend his opinion upon the play of one and another , demonstrating by the doctrine of chances that they were injudicious . 
`` Its lucky for us , Mitten , that you do n't play , or you 'd soon leave us without a stake . 
At length , said William , `` let me take a hand , and see if my theory holds good in practice . '' 
`` Mitten , '' said Old Fogy , `` do n't play . 
`` Well , '' said Mitten , `` I am not anxious to play . '' 
And he did not . 
Mitten 's company and back-room sittings coming to the ears of Mr. Markham , he warned William against his associates . 
`` Mr. Markham , '' said William , `` these are the only men of the village , -LRB- yourself excepted , -RRB- who have treated me with any respect and kindness since my return home . 
The day after their arrival , Thompson presented Mitten a beautiful box . 
said Mitten . 
`` Open and see , '' said his cousin . 
He opened it , and saw all the jewelry that he had given to Amanda . 
He opened and read : `` Let them follow the heart of the giver . 
Tears rolled rapidly down his cheeks as he spoke . 
William continued his unluckyassociations . 
One day , while he was looking on at the game of his friends : `` Here , Mitten , '' said one of the seniors , `` play my hand for me , '' rising and going out . 
On his return another addressed him , saying : `` Look here , old man , take your seat there and play your own hand we ca n't play with Mitten . '' 
Mitten had won ten dollars while representing his old friend . 
William now proposed to take a hand for himself . 
William played , and won a little . 
So did he for five or six sittings . 
Then his winnings and losings began to balance each other pretty equally . 
Then he began to lose regularly , but in small amounts -- then in larger amounts . 
That the young one would frequently relieve himself from the fatigues of the game by playing the fiddle and walking round the table , and that so long as he played the fiddle , he -LRB- Mitten -RRB- was certain to lose . 
They readily assented to his proposition , and William indoctrinated them in a set of signs , offensive and defensive , that in a better cause would have immortalized him . 
He cautioned them to wait the signal from him before they put any of their plans of attachin operation , and in the mean-time , to act wholly on the defensive . 
The parties met , and old Fogy entertained the company with an account of his early adventures at the card-table , in which was this passage : `` I lost , and lost , and lost . 
At twelve o'clock at night , the Juniors being a little winners , Mitten got too sleepy to set any longer , and the game closed . 
Mitten discovered it in three deals . 
William had not only concerted his signs in a masterly manner , but he had a way of communicating to his partners the most important signs of their adversaries as soon as he discovered them . 
While he was making his discoveries his party lost a little . 
`` I do n't like to raise the stakes when I 'm losing , '' said William , `` but luck must turn soon , and that will be the quickest way of getting back my losings , and I believe I 'm willing to play a little higher . '' 
Old Fogy put up the stakes very high , and William gave the signal for attackwith all his armory . 
Mitten lost to his partners two hundred dollars , and the Fogies lost to them from five hundred to a thousand each . 
At one o'clock , A. M. , Mitten rose from the table saying : `` That his brain was so addled he could n't play ; and that if he could , such a run of luck would ruin the best player in the world . '' 
It would be both interesting and instructive to the young , to trace Mitten 's progress step by step in gaming , until he became a most accomplished blackleg ; but our limits will not allow us to do so . 
He was in rapid progress to this distinction , when Miss Flora Summers , daughter of Col. Mark Summers , who resided five miles from the village , returned home from Salem , N. C . 
William visited her , and so did John Brown , now admitted to the bar and practising with brilliant promise . 
The Colonel received Brown with great cordiality , and William with distant civility . 
The Colonel was not surprised at her preference , but before it had time to ripen into love , he thus addressed her : `` My daughter , it may be that Mitten and Brown will become suitors of yours . 
I do not say to you , in that event marry Brown , but I do say to you do not marry Mitten , if you would save yourself and me from misery intolerable . 
You know his history in part . 
If he did not break his mother 's heart , he hastened her death . 
He has rendered himself odious to all good men , and become the associate of gamblers . 
And yet he is a young man of handsome person , fine address and fine talents . 
These endowments are apt to win upon a girl 's heart ; but surely my daughter can fortify her heart against dangerous impressions from such a man as Mitten . '' 
I assure you that I will never give my hand to William . '' 
`` Then , without feigning an attachment that you do not feel , give him the earliest opportunity of declaring himself , and let your refusal be respectful but decisive . '' 
It will cost me no difficulty to refuse Mitten ; but I do n't think I ever can love John Brown . 
Mitten repeated his visits , and was received more warmly by the Colonel than at first . 
His manners were not wanting in polish , and in intellectual endowments he now far outstripped Mitten . 
His visits for five or six months seemed only of a friendly character . 
He read well and talked well , and was both a wit and humorist ; but he never wounded by his sallies . 
Mitten surrendered himself to cards ; distinguished himself among gamblers for his shrewdness , and actually made money by his calling , until he was arrested in his career by that disease so common to gamblers , and so fatal to all , consumption . 
When he found the disease fastened incurably upon him , he took his room , his mother 's bed room . 
She had often said , that at her death she wished it to go to William , and there it was left for him . 
He opened it , found in it many traces of his mother 's pen , scraps of paper with texts of scripture , holy resolutions , prayers , Christian consolations , and the like , written on them . 
Mr. Markham came , and found William with his head on his mother 's Bible , bedewing it with tears . 
ejaculated William , thoughtfully . 
`` You would not come to me , William , and ask a favor of me , and at the same time say , ` I ask it , but I do not believe you will grant it , ' would you ? '' 
William , now gave himself to prayer and reading the scriptures . 
He sent for all within his reach whom he had offended , or who had offended him . 
Two , three , and four months the disease spared him ; but he found little comfort . 
At the beginning of the fifth he found peace ; rejoiced for a month more , preached powerfully to all who came to his bedside , and with his last breath cried , `` Mother , receive thy son ! '' 
