`` To say the truth , Master Morton , '' said the smith , `` I only floated down with the tide to look in upon Sir Christopher , this morning , to see if he had returned from his expedition to the psalm singers . 
`` And good anchors too ; aye , and picks and spades ; no better in all New England , Master Morton , '' cried the burly smith , somewhat nettled at this storm of hard names , which his classical companion was rattling like hail upon his head . 
`` Shall I slit his weasand , your worship , '' said the contemplative Bootefish , towards whom the two had now approached , and who still remained in his reposing attitude by the side of his prisoner . 
`` It would make him comfortable , I think . 
He seems impatient to have it done . 
His eye says , as plain as mortal tongue could speak , ` Robert Bootefish , no more words , but slit my wizen and have done with it . '' ' 
if you do I 'll slit your nose , '' cried Morton ; `` and yet that pure and perfect carbuncle should remain , an indivisible gem forever . 
These latter invocations were not showered by the classical Morton , as it might seem , upon the head and velvet cheek of his henchman Bootefish , but were intended solely for the benefit of the slender youth , who , finding the party holding , as it were , a court martial upon their sylvan prisoner , had advanced towards them to advocate his cause . 
`` Good morrow , Master Morton ; and good morrow to you , Master Walford . 
asked Morton , as he took off his cap and made a fantastic , half jocular salute to the stripling . 
`` You are quite right , Signor Jaspar , '' said Morton ; `` I assure you that no true lover of the gentle craft but would have done as you have done . ' 
`` And I am ashamed that the worshipful Master Morton , Lord of Misrule and Sachem of Merry-Mount , should have been obliged to receive a rebuke from one wholly a tyro in the science , '' answered Jaspar -- stay ; I hear a footstep in the thicket . '' 
And with the graceful bound of a panther , he flew towards the wood . 
When Beauchamp Plantagenet , -LSB- 1 -RSB- of Belvil , in New Albion or New England , Esquire , published his letters `` to his suzerain lord , the right honorable and mighty Lord Edmond , by Divine Providence lord proprietor , earl palatine , governor and captain-general of the Province of New Albion , '' and gave the most minute directions towards planting and establishing a magnificient piece of secondhand feudality in the wilderness , he did not seem a whit ridiculous . 
Morton grew tired of Clifford 's Inn , the charms of the Lord Keepership were dwarfed in long perspective . 
Wollaston , who was a man of station , had engaged with him , in his undertaking , a few adventurers of his own rank , among whom was Morton , and had brought with him a large number of persons bound to servitude , after the manner of the day , besides artificers , mechanics and agriculturists , sufficient in his estimation to establish a colony upon a large scale . 
It was now that Morton displayed his genius . 
Possessing a certain share in the adventure , he determined to make himself master of the whole colony . 
Inflaming the colonists with artful speeches , in which he warned them that they were about to be transported to Virginia , to be sold as slaves , and held out to them alluring prospects of wealth and good living if they rallied under his dominion , and remained where they were , he easily made them the instruments of his plan . 
Morton was eloquent , adroit , bold , good-humored , and luxurious and loose in his habits and principles . 
They therefore exchanged their servitude to Captain Wollaston for a nondescript vassalage to Esquire Morton . 
Not only Morton , Gardiner , Thompson , of Thompson 's Island , and Walford , but still other inhabitants of Massachusetts , of widely differing characters and pursuits , seemed united in some common purpose , and bound by a secret tie to Sir Ferdinando . 
To the Plymouth brethren , Morton was a thorn which they endeavored incessantly to pluck out and cast from them . 
His whole existence seemed to them an insult , so utterly were his character and principles opposed to their own , while at the same time their uneasiness seemed to have a deeper cause . 
His manner of dealing with the Indians , also , gave the Puritans great annoyance . 
Fully impressed with that grand characteristic of most Englishmen , a self-relying consciousness of national superiority , he treated the aborigines with a frank and cheerful contempt , which was not without its philosophy . 
Where two nations are mixed together , he would say , one or the other must rule . 
He therefore assumed , at starting , a careless , graceful superiority , which rather astonished the natives , but in the end convinced them that he was a great sachem , whom they ought willingly to obey . 
He was never deluded into any enthusiasm for savage dignity or poetry , but found the Rising Moon , the Floating Cloud of the North-west , and the indomitable Buffalo , all very useful fellows to supply him with beaver and deerskins , and rewarded them according to their activity in his service , without any regard to the splendor of their lineage , or their private exploits of heroism . 
The Indians , in the vicinity of Morton 's residence , were peaceable in the main , well disposed towards the English , and more afraid of the encroachments of the Tarentines of the East , and the Pequods of the West , than of the pale-faced strangers , to whom they looked up for protection as to superior beings . 
Morton took the best advantage of this disposition . 
He taught a few of them the use of fire-arms . 
By these means Morton had extended his system of semi-vassalage from his white subordinates over the Indians also . 
His horizon opened as he advanced . 
He was already grown to be a man of power and consequence . 
The Indians brought him in great store of beaver , and he began to think himself likely to realize a colossal fortune at last in this most lucrative trade . 
His more extensive plans of dominion were associated with those of the Knight of Devonshire . 
The other personage , Thomas Walford , was a bold blacksmith , who like Morton had originally emigrated to Virginia , but , becoming dissatisfied , had dwelt awhile with Weston 's people . 
He was , like Morton , an object of suspicion to the brethren at Plymouth , and was moreover a stumbling-block in the path of those who were contemplating the establishment of a new and large colony in Massachusetts Bay . 
eaf285v1.n1 -LSB- 1 -RSB- See Note I. Walfordand Morton had remained composedly upon the beach for a few moments , when Jaspar reappeared , leaning affectionately upon the arm of an individual of striking appearance . 
`` Good morrow , Master Merry-Mount , '' said he , extending his hand to Morton ; `` and good morning to you , worthy hermit of Mishawum , I am sorry that my absence should have lost me any portion of your visit to my humble abode . 
And how are the revellers of Passanogessit , Master Morton ? 
`` To say the truth , Sir Christopher , '' answered Morton , `` I have long since exhausted my talent at borrowing , and I doubt if I could thrive much even upon any advance from our friend St. Thomas the silentiary . 
They have no suspicion that the pious Gardiner , who seeks comfort in the refreshing bosom of their austere church -- '' `` Cold comfort indeed , '' cried Morton , interrupting him with an affected shudder . 
`` As if this wide and boundless new world was discovered , '' cried Morton , `` only that its forests might resound with their eternal trumpets and their shawms . 
`` Perhaps they will make you a visit sooner than you think , '' interrupted Gardiner , as Morton , after having relieved his mind by this ebullition of spleen , lay kicking up his heels upon the grass -- now humming a snatch of a drinking song , now muttering to himself a quotation from his favorite Horace -- `` perhaps your hospitality may be put sooner to the test than you suppose ; I see you prick up your ears ; take care that you keep them where they belong . 
`` Thank ye , Sir Kit , '' replied Morton . 
`` I tell you , Morton , that they are no respecter of persons . 
cried the imperturbable Morton . 
`` Vulcan , Vulcan , '' replied the unabashed Morton , `` your remarks are unsavory -- they smell of the shop -- what is all this about anvils and sledge-hammers ? 
`` Trust me for defending my strong hold , '' answered Morton , more seriously . 
`` The post-roads being much out of repair , '' interrupted the facetious Morton . 
`` And I will say , '' said Morton , `` of my own knowledge , that they are better fellows , and will make better Christians , than the Puritans . 
`` I say , '' continued Morton , warmly , `` that my savage subjects are rapidly becoming as civilized and as respectable a body of rascals as my Christian ones . '' 
cried Morton , in so loud a tone as to arouse that worthy individual from the innocent slumber which he had been enjoying in the sunshine during this protracted conversation . 
`` I say , Robin , '' he continued , with affected indignation , as the red faced and red coated worthy advanced , stretching his long arms and his bandy legs to shake off his lethargy ; `` this mechanical son of Jupiter has the audacity to call you a lobster , and moreover denies that you are a Christian ; what do you think of that ? '' 
cried Morton . 
And so the sovereign of Merry-Mount , who was never so happy as when he could quibble upon the redoubtable Miles Standish , the hero of Plymouth , to whom he had an invincible dislike , rubbed his hands triumphantly , as he looked at the blacksmith . 
`` This is one of your instruments for turning savages into Christians , then , I suppose , '' said he to Morton . 
These individuals , whom the facetious Morton called his serfs , it will be remembered were the oarsmen of his boat , and had been gravely squatting upon their hams and smoking their pipes on the same spot , and in the same attitude , ever since their arrival . 
Morton , who had been enjoying the scene amazingly , while Gardiner , hardly heeding what was going forward , had been conversing in an under tone with Jaspar , now stepped forward and addressed the brooding Bootefish . 
`` Tush , tush , man , '' said the good-humored Morton . 
`` Aye , '' said the hearty blacksmith , proffering his mighty hand , `` shake hands and be friends again , Robin Bootefish . 
`` He does , he does , every claw of him , '' answered Morton . 
Walford 's little boat was soon tossing upon the tide , and his sail had disappeared behind the headlands of the cove , when Gardiner observed to Morton , -- `` A sinewy fellow , that Walford , and as tough and as true as his own sledge-hammer . 
I will say that of him , small as is the love I bear him , '' answered Morton . 
T is said that they actually contemplate removing hither themselves ; and that Lady Arabella and Lady Susan are fanatical enough to follow their husbands into the wilderness , '' said Morton . 
`` At all events , '' said Morton , `` the old Gorges patent is good as far as it goes . 
Morton , who was apparently accustomed to these occasional ebullitions of passion from Gardiner , although he was not perhaps thoroughly aware of all their causes , waited coolly till his companion was more composed , when he observed , -- `` Your future Majesty of Massachusetts will not forget the claims of your faithful ally and prime minister . 
`` He is , '' said Morton ; `` but he is an impracticable fellow -- brave , but wayward -- moody , sometimes , and passionate -- and at other times gay , and as full of reckless fun as the best , or worst of us . 
asked Morton , `` I hardly thought you were acquainted with the lad . 
`` The devil take these assassin spring days , '' cried Morton , `` smiling hypocritically in your face , and whipping you through the lungs with an east wind , as sharp as your rapier . 
`` But while I am talking of sunshine , '' continued Morton , `` the sun is sinking into yonder mass of clouds , and the north-easter is beginning to pipe among the pines -- I must be off . 
The worthy precentor , butler , and boatswain , of the eccentric Morton , being thus exhorted , got the boat expeditiously under weigh , with the assistance of his two savage proselytes , and the Lord of Merry-Mount jumped briskly aboard , having shaken hands and warmly bade farewell to his companions . 
These , with a small number of vagabond , peaceable Indians , the broken remnant of a tribe almost annihilated by the pestilence , and who entertained much the same kind of veneration for their white superior , which the savage caliban did for Stephano and his bottle , composed the rabble rout which the worthy Morton was fond of calling his subjects . 
A noise of merriment within the `` Palace , '' as Morton denominated his log-house , caused the ancient forest to ring again . 
Seated at the head of his rude table , with pipe in mouth , and a vast tankard at his elbow , was seated the Lord of Merry-Mount . 
At some distance below , was seated his lieutenant , Robin Bootefish , of the purple proboscis . 
Next to him was old acquaintance , `` thou deservest to be installed forever as chief priest of the fountain of Merry-Mount . 
You are aware , Master Maudsley , '' continued he , turning to the young man who sat on his right , `` you are aware that there are many fountains of rare and curious merit in this wilderness ; so that the future Moses who shall lead the Puritans to this Canaan , will need to smite no rock for their water . '' 
`` Truly , Master Morton , '' answered the young gentleman , `` the fountain presided over by your butler and friend , Robert Bootjack -- . '' 
`` Marry at Winnesimit , '' answered Morton , `` is a fountain of wonderful virtue for the fair sex . ' 
`` Next , and in this neighborhood , '' replied Morton , `` over at Squanto 's chapel yonder , is a fountain of a most remarkable power ; for its waters cause a dead sleep of forty-eight hours to those who drink forty-eight ounces at a draught , and so on proportionably . '' 
`` Truly you seem to be a martyr indeed , Master Morton , '' said Maudsley ; `` and , considering that the brethren have no more jurisdiction over your territory than the Khan of Tartary , one would think they might let you alone . '' 
`` Yes indeed , '' says Maudsley , to the infinite satisfaction of Morton , adding the concluding line of the ode , -- ` Dulce est desipere in loco . ' 
`` How can I express my delight to you , most excellent young man , '' cried Morton , almost falling upon Maudsley 's neck . 
cried Morton , rapping upon the table with the hilt of his dagger . 
exclaimed Morton . 
`` Robert Bootefish , '' interrupted Morton , with a solemn , theatrical , but slightly tipsy expression , `` it is a night , as the worthy deer stealer of Stratford hath it , `` Aye , '' interrupted Maudsley in his turn , `` and yet perhaps as for this poor devil , ` Unbonneted he runs . ' 
`` Welcome to Merry-Mount , most worthy wanderer , '' said Morton , `` and pray whom have I the honor of addressing ? '' 
The thin , half drowned little man looked bewildered enough , being thus suddenly brought from the wild and stormy darkness without , into the glaring , hot , and fantastic scene , where he now stood , a most striking and almost pathetic contrast to the other actors of the scene . 
For a moment he seemed to have lost the faculty of speech . 
said Morton . 
`` And that , I suppose , we are to consider a most lucid explanation of your appearance and present position , '' said Morton . 
I shall catechise this stray crop ear and illuminate his darkness , always with the leave of your honor 's worship , '' concluded he , looking towards Master Morton . 
While this drunken foolery was going on , Maudsley and Morton , something weary of the folly , and who wished some private conversation , had retired into the adjoining apartment , the suzerain having appointed Peter Cakebread to officiate in his absence . 
Morton watched at the door till the party had dispersed into the various cabins which were inclosed within the palisade . 
He then sallied forth personally , to examine the security of his outer defences , and having completed his rounds , returned into his house . 
Gardiner , however , possessed a deep knowledge of human nature , and reading Morton 's character at a glance , he saw how much assistance might be derived from his various qualities and accomplishments , although his flippancy and recklessness caused him great uneasiness . 
In his intercourse with the brethren at I lymouth , whom he visited in the demure character of a spiritually-minded and contrite man , he had found how much irritation existed in the minds of those holy men at the madcap freaks of Morton and his ragamuffin subjects . 
`` Master Morton of Merry-Mount , '' began the Canary Bird . 
`` Hold your tongue , again , thou impudent yellow-breasted biped , '' interrupted the butler , `` and allow your superior to answer all questions directed to him . 
Know then , Master Blacksmith , or in other words , good Master Thomas Walford , that we have been specially deputed by his worship , Master Thomas Morton , armigero and lord of the manor of Merry-Mount , to bid you to certain mid-summer night revels , which we propose to keep at the said manor of Merry-Mount , to begin at five of the clock upon the morrow evening , and to continue throughout the May-day , which immediately succeedeth , and as many hours longer as the butt holdeth out . '' 
`` This Master Morton is like to raise trouble now for himself , by keeping such a nest of buzzing hornets to swarm about the country , disturbing every honest man in his business . 
`` Hold your hand , Morton , for an instant , '' said the knight , as he saw Morton preparing to fire . 
`` Experience , Master Morton , '' answered the knight , `` experience , from earliest childhood to the present moment , has been tutoring me . 
While these events had been taking place , or rather just before the very opportune arrival of Morton and Gardiner , the valorous butler , who had been severely bruised during the progress of the affray , and was well nigh exhausted by his extraordinary efforts , had been captured at last by the two remaining Indians of the first party , who had attacked him , the one with his bow and arrows , the other with a long hatchet-headed pole . 
They had now bound him again , and had dragged him to the neighborhood of the wigwam , where he now sat upon the ground very near the Canary Bird , looking the image of dogged resolution . 
`` Ah , look yonder , Sir Christopher , '' continued Morton , after a little pause , during which the savages seemed to be still deliberating whether to attack or to hold a parley with the three Englishmen . 
Sneak this way man , '' continued Morton , as Rednape , who , as will be remembered , had fled early from the field of battle , but who had in reality been the cause of the favorable turn which things had taken , by the information which he had conveyed to Morton and Gardiner , of whose whereabouts he happened to be informed , now stole forward with a large pouch of ammunition upon his shoulder , and a fire-arm in his hand . 
With these words the knight , to Morton 's profound astonishment , left the cover of the tree with his matchlock carelessly lying in the hollow of his arm , and coolly advanced to within fifty yards of the second party of Indians , who had been standing huddled together in earnest conversation since the fall of their first champion . 
Half a dozen bows were lifted in an instant , half a dozen arrows were drawn to the head , while Morton , transfixed with wonder , stood gazing at the incomprehensible fool-hardiness of the knight , when suddenly , at a word of command , the weapons were all lowered , and the chief of the party uttering a shrill cry of recognition , advanced forward to meet the Englishman , proffering his hand , and making a hundred gestures and unintelligible protestations of friendship . 
All appearances of hostility having ceased on both sides , the other Indians retired by themselves for the present to the vicinity of the wigwam , where they resumed the interrupted preparations for their feast ; while Morton and Walford together proceeded to liberate the two captives Bootefish and Doryfall , and then withdrew to the vicinity of the beach to hold deliberation . 
`` Aye , '' said Morton , replying in the careless humor which was habitual with him , to the observations of Walford , which Gardiner , engaged in colloquy with the sachem , did not appear to heed . 
`` Poh , nonsense , thou most careless and uninstructed giant , '' answered Morton , `` thy ignorance of the genealogy and political history of the tribes among whom thou hast pitched thy tent , is lamentable . 
Four drunken vagabonds of the pious crew , harbored by our friend Master Morton here , paid me a visit this morning . 
That individual who by a kind of miracle had escaped unwounded , though marvellously bruised , from his various adventures that morning , and who had been refreshing himself during the interval afforded by the historical disquisition of Morton , with a quiet nap in the sun , had aroused himself at the voice of the blacksmith , and now listened with gratification to this encomium upon his conduct . 
`` If your worship , Master Morton , will allow , '' resumed the butler , `` I can explain to Sir Christopher the whole of the matter in about six words . '' 
`` I knew there was knavery at the beginning , '' cried Morton . 
The worthy butler concluded his harangue , which , without more circumlocution than was to have been expected , had at last instructed Morton and the knight as to the real cause of the quarrel , by a beaming glance of affection directed towards the smith . 
Master Morton , I shall insist upon an exemplary chastisement as the only means of satisfying the savages ' sense of justice . '' 
`` Right as Rhadamanthus , '' answered Morton , `` but where has the knave bestowed himself ? '' 
`` I have already told thee , Master Morton , '' interrupted the smith , `` that the creature hath been seen by me in the midst of the squabble . 
Flying in the air he was , like an imp of the old one , for Satan protects his children . 
`` I knew we should find the culprit at last , '' exclaimed Morton . 
Master Cakebread , however , seemed little inclined to obey the behest of his liege lord and sovereign , and remained in his elevated position , looking very malicious , very obstinate , and very much frightened withal . 
`` Have compassion upon me , thou most humane and puissant knight , and thou , too , my honored lord and sovereign , most worshipful Master Morton , '' he cried , with his teeth chattering as he spoke ; `` truly have I done nothing but abstract a little superfluous provender from the savages . 
Master Morton , have the kindness to summon the savages from yonder wigwam . '' 
`` Willingly , Sir Kit , '' answered Morton , `` but permit me before I do so to make a suggestion , -- Is it certain that it would not be better to hand the culprit -- ? '' 
Here the unfortunate Cakebread struggled violently to speak , and to throw himself upon his knees , but the gag and cords prevented , and Morton proceeded , -- `` Would it not be better to hang the culprit , or at least a culprit ? 
`` Tush , Morton , '' said Gardiner , who , although impatient at this delay in executing his orders , treated the Sachem of Merry-Mount , as he always did even in his most whimsical moments , with considerable deference . 
`` Tush , Morton , thou triflest too unseasonably ; I have determined , that although this actual offence be not very grave in amount , yet that this practice of pilfering by white men upon Indians is likely to bring us into contempt , and that it is necessary to make an example of this fellow , who , as thou hast thyself informed me , has been guilty of such tricks before . 
Cakebread , who , in spite of his cords , had contrived to execute a hampered dance of rapture , and to emit certain smothered and unnatural sounds indicative of his intense delight at Morton 's proposition , and his unqualified approval of this project of a vicarious punishment , now received a smart rap on the head from Bootefish , to induce a more reverential demeanor , while Sir Christopher continued , -- `` If you will have the kindness to call yonder savages together , and will simply appoint your servant Bootefish yonder to the temporary office of executioner , I will , without farther delay , see that a proper chastisement is meted out to this culprit , which will be sufficient as an example , but which will hardly prevent him from fulfilling his duties as principal buffoon , so long as he can find greater fools than himself to laugh at his folly . '' 
suddenly exclaimed Morton , upon finding by the knight 's determined manner , that the matter must be forthwith settled , -- `` Robertus Bootefish , thou art hereby authorized by the command of thy suzerain , to take upon thyself , in addition to thy other responsible offices of butler , precentor , and head clerk , the dignity of carnifex maximus , which is in the vernacular , head executioner , not only for the present but for all future time , and thou art hereby instructed to hold thyself in readiness to execute the penalty of the law according to the behest of the illustrious knight , Sir Christopher Gardiner , upon the body of the culprit , Petrus Panificium , or , in the vulgar , Peter Cakebread , upon this very spot and at this very moment of time . 
The savages were immediately summoned , and squatted themselves gravely upon their hams , forming a circle around their chief , who received from Morton and Gardiner a rapid and succinct account of the matter from the beginning to the end , and expressed himself thoroughly satisfied with the penalty proposed . 
Finding all his efforts in vain , after casting an imploring but ineffectual look at Morton , he permitted himself to be seized by Rednape and Doryfall . 
Upon the summit of the bare and elevated mound which rose on the seaward side of Morton 's territory , the sovereign himself was seated in company with Henry Maudsley and the blacksmith , Thomas Walford . 
`` I am truly beholden to you , my masters , '' said Morton , `` that you have kindly consented to grace our poor revels . 
A good swashing fellow is Robin , and a hearty fellow at a hug with a red-breech ; I hope his soul and body hold together , Master Morton . '' 
that do they indeed , '' answered Morton ; `` honest Robin 's soul and body are as well coopered together again as ever a one of his own ale-butts over which he presides with so much dignity . 
`` In truth , Master Morton , '' answered Maudsley , who still lingered from habit at the place where he had temporarily and for his own purposes established himself , but to whom , as may be easily supposed , the habits of the Merry-Mount crew were distasteful enough in his present state of mind ; `` in truth , I fear I shall be but a sorry guest at your festivities , and you must pardon me for reminding you that , by our compact , I am to be but a lookeron , and not an actor . '' 
`` As you please , as you please , '' answered Morton , `` you shall find that our majesty of Merry-Mount is less despotic than our royal brother of England . 
The gloom upon Maudsley 's haggard features was certainly not enlivened by the concluding allusion of Morton to the absent knight , who had hitherto eluded his pursuit , and his voice trembled with suppressed emotion as he replied , -- `` I have heard that the knight , with whom by the way my acquaintance is but limited , had made a pilgrimage to Plymouth . 
I presume you know something of his movements , Master Morton . '' 
`` The May-games , '' answered Morton , who was full of quaint information upon this , and upon all kindred subjects , `` were not always confined to the first of May , nor concluded in one day . 
`` Unquestionably , '' said Morton , `` the custom hath been time-honored among Christians as well as pagans , and I swear that the benighted heathens of this Ultima Thule shall also learn to respect it . 
`` Of a surety , '' replied Morton . 
exclaimed Morton ; `` marry , I would fain know at what remote period there was an England without a May-day . 
`` Marry , '' replied Morton , `` and what a forlorn and shivering chicken will poor humanity prove when they have pulled all the painted feathers out of its tail . 
The blacksmith was accordingly awakened from a refreshing nap , which the didactic conversation of Morton had induced , and the three accordingly descended from the mound . 
The weather was fine and warm , the season was a forward one , so that there was a prospect which might not have always proved the case , that the necessary garlands and budding branches would be found for the morrow 's purposes , and upon the whole , the spring , in this climate more than in any other , the most perverse , coquettish , and fickle of seasons , seemed desirous of rewarding her ardent and light-hearted adorer with her sunniest smiles . 
We have already observed , that besides the large number of vagabonds of various descriptions who occupied the log-houses which were clustered and formed a little village around the palace of the suzerain , there had been a general invitation given by Morton to all the scattered inhabitants of the neighborhood to share his hospitality upon this occasion . 
Moreover , a considerable number of Indians of both sexes , who had long been upon terms of intimacy with the Merry-Mount crew , and many of whom , in consideration of Morton 's good humor and good liquor , were willing to acknowledge him as their liege lord , were mingled indiscriminately with groups of Englishmen , as wild in conduct , if paler in countenance , than themselves . 
`` Come , my merry men all , '' said Morton , as soon as he arrived among them , `` the sun is already near setting , -- 't is time we decided the contest between the forces of Winter and Summer ; for beshrew me , if we win not the victory , the May-pole may stand another year in the forest among its brethren , with the crows building their nests in its branches , instead of being borne and erected in triumph upon the summit of Merry-Mount . '' 
`` Spoken like a Spartan , most laconic of butlers , '' answered Morton , and now do me the favor to draw off your party , or rather order the two prefects to lead each his own to the summit of the mount . '' 
Bootefish , who was Morton 's prime minister and grand coadjutor upon all great occasions , and who felt himself entirely in his element when engaged in ceremonies of any sort , now seized a brazen trumpet which hung at his waist , and blew a blast which made the forest ring again . 
As he concluded his strain , two grotesquely attired creatures were seen suddenly to issue from different thickets of the neighboring wood , and advance towards the company . 
Thus attired , and presenting a happy combination of Ariel , Mercury , and Zephyr , this airy being , who was the representative of Summer , the præfectus cohortis æstalis , according to the pedantic Morton 's expression , skipped forward with many fantastic contortions towards the assembled spectators . 
Suddenly , Orson , with a howl of rage , lifted his mighty club , Zephyr raised his light and flower-wreathed wand to defend himself ; but just as the blow was descending , skipped nimbly back , while his ferocious antagonist , losing his balance by the unresisted violence of his own attack , floundered clumsily upon the ground . 
Zephyr now frisked briskly forward , and began to dance upon his prostrate body , but Orson suddenly rousing himself with a roar , the aerial being tumbled in his turn , while Orson again threatened to demolish him with his club . 
Morton , as umpire of the impending combat , had preceded them to the summit , and had seated himself upon a rock , where , attended by Walford and Maudsley , he presided in solemn state over the scene . 
Master Morton presided with solemn dignity , upon an elevated dais or platform at one end of the rude hall , where Maudsley also found a seat , and looked distractedly at the wild and grotesque scene which presented itself to his eyes . 
Here the mirth and uproar were continued till late in the night , or rather till early in the morning , although Morton , who had ordered all matters with a foresight befitting so solemn an occasion , had taken care that but a limited quantity of liquor should be served out at this introductory portion of the revels . 
The sovereign of Merry-Mount , as soon as he thought that the banquetting had gone far enough , had himself retreated within his domicile to snatch a short repose . 
At about two o'clock in the morning , he aroused himself , and proceeding with great gravity into the midst of the assembled rioters who were still congregated about the bonfire , he mounted upon the stump of a large tree which had been felled , and addressed them as follows : -- `` My faithful lieges and dutiful subjects , we are of opinion that this night 's revel hath already been sufficiently protracted . 
As the suzerain concluded his oration , which was received with uproarous demonstrations of applause , the company , with many a whoop and yell , divided themselves into different parties , and plunged forth in various directions into the forest which surrounded the palace . 
Morton withdrew again into his mansion , while the blacksmith , who had no mind to sacrifice his sleep in order to participate in these midnight ceremonies , and who cared not to enhance the beauty of his swarthy visage by bathing it in May dew , stretched himself at his vast length by the embers of the fire , and was soon lost in oblivion . 
Morton and several of his adherents now withdrew for a time from the mount , leaving the company under the charge of his lieutenant and grand master of the ceremonies ; who , after serving out to them what he considered a sufficient quantity of liquor , soon after retired himself . 
`` Be it it known to ye , my lieges , '' said Morton , rising to address his subjects , that the milk-maid 's dance is one of the most ancient and time-honored customs of the May-day , and that no festivity in honor of our sovereign lady could be esteemed complete , where this most graceful and becoming ceremony was wanting . 
At this concluding exclamation of Morton , his faithful master of the ceremonies gravely led forth a band of savage maidens , who had easily been prevailed upon , by promises of liberal reward , and for the sake of the glittering gewgaws which were conspicuously displayed upon the pyramid , to agree to take share in the pageant . 
You will , however , perceive that the departure of Morton , which I foresee and have accordingly provided against , although he is resolute in his own disbelief thereof , may be yet turned to good . 
Unfortunately the late May-day festivities at Merry-Mount had excited the wrath and indignation of the Puritans of New Plymouth , among whom Gardiner had carefully established himself during the whole period of Morton 's riot . 
This he had done , both to enable the settlers to contrast the solemnity of his own character with the licentiousness of the master of misrule , and to enable him to observe at once the effects produced upon their minds by the whole proceedings . 
Leaving those two worthies in charge of the palace , Master Morton , one fine summer 's morning , passed over the river and took his way towards the plantation of Wessaguscus , or rather to what remained of that unsuccessful establishment at that place . 
Morton had passed a portion of the summer 's day loitering about the neighborhood , hoping to fall in with certain petty chieftains , of the neighboring tribes , with whom he was in constant habits of intercourse , and with whom he had some particular arrangements to conclude . 
He had been disappointed , however , and was upon the point of returning to his own domains , as it was already late in the afternoon , when he suddenly heard himself called by name . 
Turning in some surprise at the sound , he saw emerging from a kind of cavern , partly natural and partly artificial , which opened upon the side of a sloping crag , a strange and almost preternatural figure . 
The creature seemed covered with hair from head to foot , but how much of his hirsute covering was the natural growth of his own hide , and how much had been borrowed from other animals , could not , in the general squalor and filth which covered the whole , be accurately discovered . 
His head was covered with matted iron-grey elf locks , which circled and twisted in every direction , like a nest of rattlesnakes ; the nails of his hands and feet were long and crooked , like vulture 's talons ; he had a basket on his arm , and held a long pole in his right hand . 
The expression of his features , as far as could be discerned through the mass of hair and filth with which they were obscured , was something less human than that of an intelligent ourang-outang . 
`` Master Morton , Master Morton , '' screeched this creature , suddenly darting out of its cave , and leaping towards the Lord of Merry-Mount . 
answered Morton , who seemed to have seen the creature before -- `` What wouldst thou with me , most venerable carrion ? 
`` Master Morton , Master Morton , thou diddest me a kindness once , '' said this human woodchuck . 
And with this the creature planted his pole in the earth and began leaping down the side of the hill . 
`` Stop , stop , '' cried Morton , `` I have no occasion for clams at this present juncture , and truly the favor I meant to ask of you , was simply that thou shouldst frothwith return again into the womb of thy mother earth . 
But stay , I did but jest , '' added Morton , as the creature , hanging its head and weeping bitterly , began slowly to retreat towards his cave -- `` stay here , then , and air the inmost chambers of thy mind , by opening them to the breeze and sunlight of improving society . 
`` I say , Master Morton , thou diddest me a kindness once , '' said the Caliban , turning again towards his companion , and squatting down at the door of his cave . 
`` So thou diddest me the honor to observe before , '' answered Morton , `` and truly I do even propose to do thee another . 
answered Morton . 
`` Yes , yes , Master Morton , thunder enough , lightning enough , '' answered the monster ; `` I have not lived under ground so long for nothing . 
`` By Jupiter , '' said Morton , `` here is a subterranean philosopher ! 
`` And why not , pretty one , '' replied Morton . 
I thank thee kindly , Master Morton , but I can not away to Merry-Mount . 
`` Now here is an ingenious fellow , '' said Morton to himself , who found that the poor crack-brained man of the woods was out of the reach of his arguments . 
`` I do remember me , '' exclaimed Morton , `` and by Jupiter Diespiter , here is gratitude enow to redeem a city . 
And with this Morton held up a hunting flask , of ample dimension , which he carried suspended at his side . 
I wish I served your spirit , Master Morton , but Abamoko is powerful , and his red children are very kind . 
There is a more fearful mischance threatening thee , Master Morton , alas , alas ! 
said Morton , laughing . 
exclaimed Morton , `` what of the heroic shrimp , what of the most puissant pigmy ? 
`` Diddest thou never hear , '' continued he , in a low and mysterious tone , `` diddest thou never hear of the fearful plague which swept through this wilderness , now many years ago , I know not how many , neither was I here then . 
I was then in my own happy home , and had not sold myself to the terrible Abamoko , '' continued the creature , with the tears running afresh along his grimy cheeks . 
`` Did I never hear of it , '' cried Morton , `` why thou most uninstructed pagan , did I not see it ? 
`` Quite the contrary , my rustic friend , '' answered Morton , `` I know that it hath surceased well nigh these ten years . '' 
answered Morton . 
`` So the God Abamoko visits thee nocturnally , '' answered Morton . 
`` What detestable and unfeeling cookery , '' answered Morton ; `` now may Satan himself consume such a boiling , frying , scorching devil as Abamoko . 
replied Morton . 
exclaimed Morton , `` so the murder is out . 
`` Truly a most admirable device , '' answered Morton . 
`` Hush , hush , '' exclaimed his companion , who seemed quite shocked at the irreverent manner in which his astounding piece of intelligence was received ; `` hush , hush , hearest thou not yonder distant thunder ? 
Abamoko is full of wrath ; '' and with these words the lunatic coiled himself into a heap upon the ground , moaning dismally , while his teeth chattered with fear . 
Nature seemed so spell-bound and breathless , that it was a relief to Morton 's ear , when the distant and muttered thunder , which was hardly audible , and which , however , seemed so sensibly to affect his companion , at last interrupted the boding silence . 
Morton stood looking at these various and portentous appearances , with the eye of a man whom long experience in the wilderness had taught to read the book of nature with great accuracy . 
`` There is no mistaking such ugly signs as these , '' said he , rather to himself than to his companion . 
`` I tell thee , Master , '' croaked out the lunatic , as he lay coiled and shuddering in a heap , `` profane not thus the name of the mighty and fearful hero of Plymouth . 
`` Faith , then , '' answered Morton , `` I wish he would even take me up on his pillion behind him . 
Tell Captain Standish , moreover , that should his leisure allow , it would gratify me deeply to receive him at my poor palace at Merry-Mount , the rather that I have heard some casual intimations of an intended visit on his part , and -- '' `` Your presence here will save Captain Standish that trouble , '' suddenly exclaimed a stern voice at his side . 
Morton turned hastily round , and to his infinite amazement , beheld Miles Standish , standing close to him with his drawn sword in his hand . 
The apparition of Captain Standish had been so sudden and so unexpected , and the capture of Morton so instantaneous , that it seemed almost as if the Plymouth hero had really been possessed of some of the marvellous attributes ascribed to him by the lunatic , who had just disappeared into his cave . 
There stood the famous captain , armed to the teeth , with uplifted sword and threatening eye , motionless as a statue ; and there stood the luckless Morton , with his arms securely pinioned , and surrounded by half a dozen stout fellows , suddenly and completely in the power of the foe whom his lips had just been scoffing . 
Morton stood stock-still , looking at the calm and immovable image before him , and for a moment could not but believe himself the victim of a horrid night-mare . ' 
said Morton to himself , in a low , bewildered tone . 
By Jupiter , Son of Saturn , here is a pretty predicament for a sachem and a sovereign ; '' and with this , he relapsed again into meditation , still gazing with a rueful and puzzled expression upon his adversary . 
Miles Standish , who thus confronted the Lord of Merry-Mount , was as small of stature as he was heroic in spirit . 
As for Captain Standish , enough was known by Morton of his character and history , to give him ample assurance that he was not a personage to be trifled with . 
Although it was supposed that Morton had a very considerable body of adherents domesticated near him , yet the number of men composing the expedition was considered quite enough to take possession of his strong hold and to secure his person . 
With his usual caution and readiness , he had enjoined silence and secrecy upon his companions , and had crept , unperceived by the unsuspecting Morton , close to the spot from whence the voices issued . 
There , to his no small astonishment and gratification , he had suddenly beheld the well-known form of the sovereign of Merry-Mount , quietly conversing with the miserable , crack-brained outcast , the last remnant of Weston 's ill-starred colony , upon trifling and indifferent matters . 
Morton had stood gazing for a few moments in utter bewilderment at this sudden and unexpected apparition , but was slowly obliged to acknowledge that it was , indeed , no vision of his imagination . 
`` By Jupiter Diespiter , '' muttered he to himself , `` this is the valorous Shrimp in propria personâ , and with a lobster 's shell on his back , armed in proof , and making night hideous . 
Most valiant gentleman , '' continued he suddenly aloud , and addressing himself to his enemy , `` would it be presumptuous to inquire whether you are in reality the illustrious Captain Miles Standish , '' -LRB- it did not seem at that moment natural to call him Captain Shrimp , -RRB- `` or merely some fantastic apparition ? '' 
`` Truly , most valiant captain , '' answered the crest-fallen Morton , `` I have not , at this present time and tide , the smallest intention to seek the society of those grave and respectable personages . 
`` I am no pettifogger , Master Morton , '' answered Standish , `` and I have neither ability nor inclination to argue legal points with thee . 
`` And by what authority , may it please your most arbitrary captainship , '' answered Morton , `` do you dare thus to lay violent hands upon an unoffending subject of his Majesty , King Charles ? '' 
`` This little chimney is soon fired , '' quoth Morton to himself , `` a taller one might quietly consume within itself these little sparks ; but your little heroes are ever puffing and smoking . 
I pray the , good Master Standish , '' continued he aloud in a more courteous and good-humored tone , `` be not so easily inflamed by the natural resentment of a free denizen of the wilderness as well as a loyal subject of his Majesty , at losing his natural birthright of freedom , and , as he humbly conceives , without due cause . 
The place where Morton had been captured , was in an open hollow , surrounded by wooded hills of moderate elevation , and not far from the mouth of the river which gave its name to the abandoned plantation . 
Morton was accordingly accommodated with a rope , securely fastened about his loins , and placed in the immediate custody of two sturdy and grim-faced Puritans , who were expressly ordered to shoot him down , if he offered to make his escape . 
Morton , whose confidence in himself had not deserted him , and who still nourished hopes of escape from the awkward dilemma in which he found himself , affected the most perfect submission , and followed patiently after his leader , slily testing the strength of the knot , however , as he advanced , and eagerly watching an opportunity to slip out of his noose , and to roll down the side of the hill , when he trusted easily to elude pursuit under cover of the almost impervious thickets . 
His hunting-knife , which was the only weapon he had with him , had unfortunately been taken from him at the moment of his capture , and he found the knot so securely tied , and the cord so obstinately tough , that all his efforts to loosen or break it proved fruitless . 
As they were passing , however , through a very deep shade , and along the edge of a somewhat precipitous ledge of granite , he suddenly gave the rope a furious jerk , and threw himself bodily over the sloping precipice . 
His manœuvre was only partially successful ; his two sturdy guardians , who had wound the cord securely about their wrists , retained their hold upon him , although they were unable to maintain their balance , upon this sudden and unexpected strain . 
`` Scapegoat in thy teeth , '' muttered Morton , considerably vexed , and somewhat battered , by the unsuccessful result of his attempt -- `` scapegoat in thy teeth , thou peppery , waspish , unmannerly drummer 's boy ! 
A plague upon it , '' continued he , in a louder tone , `` ' t is bad enough to be bruised in body , by an accidental plunge from yonder precipice , and truly there needs no browbeating in addition . 
Muttering and discoursing in this fragmentary and voluble manner , Morton followed again his captors through the bushes , but finding his eloquence lost upon Standish , he soon relapsed into solemn silence . 
Though the night was already somewhat advanced , it was not so dark but that Morton could easily note the appearance and bearing of the different objects about him , with which he had long been familiar . 
There were at that moment , so far as he knew , no tenants in the dismantled and decayed huts which were here and there scattered along the clearing , but within the centre of the plain he knew that there was a larger tenement , which had been kept from time to time in tolerable repair , for the use of the trading and fishing parties who occasionally resorted thither . 
In this cheerful abode , the whole party were now assembled , and a light being soon struck , and two or three pine torches lighted , Morton was , much to his satisfaction , relieved of his bonds , and allowed to seat himself upon the ground along with the others . 
None of the party having taken any refreshment since the morning , and their appetites having been sharpened by their rugged march , they now produced their stores of dried bears ' meat of which they invited Morton to partake . 
He , however , thought proper to decline their proffered hospitality , knowing that fasting would keep him watchful , and sat rather at a distance , amusing himself with observing at his leisure the appearance of his new companions . 
The lively spirit of Morton began to grow impatient at the imperturbable repose which pervaded the assembly . 
He had determined to fast that he might be more watchful , for he was resolved to make his escape during the night , if the slightest chance for doing so should offer itself . 
Being , however , of a sociable disposition , not being a whit abashed nor provoked by the very pointed allusions to his own unregenerated condition , contained in the somewhat lengthy exhortation of which he had been an auditor ; feeling , moreover , his spirits recovering their buoyancy as he revolved in his mind a variety of projects for escape , and being , moreover , desirous to place himself upon better terms with his captors , that he might , if possible , disarm their vigilance and thus procure a greater chance of success for his efforts , he was sorry to observe the absolute and rigid silence maintained by the whole party . 
`` Truly a loquacious and cheerful company , '' muttered he impatiently to himself . 
Morton was briefly invited to partake of this refreshment , and not to appear singular , and to avoid exciting suspicion , he complied , although he prudently refrained from doing more than moisten his lips . 
Pipes and tobacco were now produced , and upon the whole the party began to assume , in the eyes of Morton , a more favorable aspect . 
The comforting fluid had during this conversation been circulating decorously , but freely , and Morton , observing that the rigidity of the company had somewhat thawed , drew nearer , and appeared attentive to the conversation , by which he was apparently much edified . 
Thankfully accepting the flask which was again handed to him by one of the company , he raised it to his lips , and bowing politely to brother Neegoose , he remarked , -- `` Hunc scyphum tibi propino , which in the vernacular , '' added he , upon observing the grim stare with which that respectable individual received this outlandish address , `` is , I drink to your very good health , worthy Master Neegoose , and a pleasant ending to an acquaintance so auspiciously begun . '' 
`` Firstly , '' answered the worthy corporal Neegoose , for such was his rank in the little army of Plymouth , `` firstly , I do hold the drinking of healths to be a profane and unnecessary invocation ; secondly , I entertain doubts whether it be lawful for an unregenerate man even to pray in company with the elect , and I feel a conviction that it is unlawful for him to drink in their company ; thirdly , thy whole character and proceedings are distasteful to me , and that thou mayest be sure I have small cause to affect thy society , know that the worthy and pious Faint-not Mellows , whom upon a recent occasion thou diddest so sorely maltreat , is brother unto my wife , and this being the case , thou mayest suppose that I , even I , am somewhat inclined to resent his wrongs . '' 
`` Whew -- '' whistled Morton to himself , at this agreeable piece of information , `` I have indeed treed the wrong bear , and had I possessed the smallest suspicion of thy distinguished matrimonial relationship , I would have seen thee damned ere I meddled with thy most grisly saintship . 
Master Neegoose , '' continued he aloud , `` touching the third head of thy discourse , and waiving the two preceding as likely to lead us into longer argument than may be desirable at this time and tide , I would even beg leave to inform thee that the worthy and pious Faint-not Mellowes , as you very properly term him , hath received no injury at hands of mine . 
This leads me once more respectfully to inquire , '' continued he , turning abruptly to Captain Standish , who , without paying much heed to the conversation between the prisoner and the corporal , was solacing himself with a quiet pipe of tobacco in a corner of the room , `` why I have been tied thus by the loins like a monkey , and forcibly haled hither like a colt to a fair , in manner and form altogether derogatory to my dignity , and prejudicial to my comfort ? 
`` Aye , '' persisted Morton , `` but the Governor and Company of New Plymouth have neither patent for the land which they themselves wrongfully occupy , nor royal charter for exercising jurisdiction in any part of New England , or any other portion of the universe . 
`` And I counsel thee , '' continued Morton , somewhat nettled at the cool and contemptuous manner of his captor , `` and I counsel thee to think twice ere thou carriest out , to its consummation , the foul conspiracy in which thou art engaged . '' 
`` Here 's an arbitrary giant , '' muttered Morton to himself , `` here 's a most hot-headed and hyperbolical Hop-of-my-thumb . 
`` Master Standish , '' continued he aloud , in a very lofty and dignified tone , `` it is by no means my intention to quarrel personally with you . 
`` In sooth , '' answered the imperturbable Morton , who rather enjoyed the ill humor of his antagonist , -- `` in sooth if I wag my tongue , Master Standish , 't is because I have nothing else to wag . 
At this magnificent effusion of heroism on the part of Morton who would , perhaps , have been somewhat disconcerted at being taken at his word , the wrath of the hot-tempered Standish became quite incontrollable . 
`` Well , well , '' said Morton , taking up the thread of his discourse , when he saw that this sudden storm had subsided , and that the only danger at present to be apprehended from indulging his license of speech , was merely that the dialogue would prove a soliloquy -- `` well , as I before had the honor to observe , I know well the motives of this assault upon me . 
`` Cease , vain man , from thy idle and frivolous discourse , '' said Corporal Neegoose , who , observing that the commander of the party only silently puffed at his pipe with redoubled fury during the continuance of Morton 's disjointed abjuration , thought it necessary to interpose to check the current of the prisoner 's invective . 
`` You have spoken , '' Corporal Neegoose , answered Morton , `` but whether wisely or not , let the night-owl , whom I hear screeching just now , decide . 
It was arranged by the commander that Morton should be placed for greater security in the inner room , and that Corporal Neegoose should occupy a part of the old bedstead with him , provided the prisoner should choose to avail himself of that luxurious piece of furniture . 
He had , upon first lying down , affected great drowsiness , and had taken pains to fall very soundly asleep , in appearance , before the senses of the corporal were steeped in forgetfulness ; so that the simple-minded functionary , who was especially charged with the safe-keeping of the prisoner , was completely disarmed of all suspicion , and resigned himself tranquilly to his slumbers almost as soon in reality as Morton had done in appearance . 
Morton lay very quietly for nearly an hour . 
The night was already far advanced , and as the days were at the longest , it was not safe to delay his attempt at escape too long . 
Much to his surprise , the weather , so far as he could judge from the faint glimmering at the window in the other room , seemed tolerably clear . 
Morton had lain there , reflecting upon a thousand different topics , listening to the discordant variety of nasal melody which proceeded from the outer room , and endeavoring to detect the particular organ of the heroic Standish amid the general concert , till it seemed to him that he had been lying there since the creation , or at least since the discovery of America , and he became at last so nervous and impatient that he felt the moment was come when he must absolutely arise and make the experiment , or else remain there the whole night through . 
A peal of distant thunder now suddenly broke through the external silence and confirmed him in his intention . 
He determined to arise , but there were two difficulties which presented themselves at the outset . 
In the first place , the dreaming corporal , in the unconscious expansiveness of sleep , had wound his arms around Morton 's neck , and it would be difficult to loosen his hold without awaking him . 
Morton readily took advantage of the circumstance and rapidly examined the appearance of the apartment . 
The single glance was almost sufficient to dash his hopes to the earth . 
The ground was covered with the prostrate forms of his captors , all of them , however , wrapped in deep slumber , while the redoubtable leader of the expedition had established himself in a sitting posture against the door , flanked upon either side by a grim and substantial man-at-arms . 
There appearing to be no immediate signs of any such catastrophe , Morton was obliged to bethink himself of some other means of relief . 
As the storm was evidently coming on apace , and as it was likely that the sleepers would soon be startled by the crash of the elements , he thought he might as well relinquish his efforts at escape , for the present at least , and he accordingly was about returning to the embraces of Corporal Neegoose , when another and still more vivid flash of lightning afforded him another opportunity of examining the scene of action . 
At the instant when the room was thus illuminated , his eyes happened to be turned towards the ceiling , in which , as will be remembered , a considerable rent had been made by the falling of the chimney . 
He had already rejected the idea of escape through that aperture , which , although it was larger than the window , and in fact of sufficient dimensions to admit of the passage of his body with some little compression , was at so hopeless a height from the floor , as to be altogether out of his reach . 
At the moment when the lightning illuminated the gloom around him , his eyes were accidentally fixed upon the ceiling . 
Was he deceived by a too sanguine imagination , or did he really at that instant behold a means of unexpected and easy escape ? 
Either a phantom of his brain was deluding his senses , or else he had seen a rope dangling from the roof , and reaching nearly to the floor . 
`` Fair and softly , '' said he to himself , as he stood pondering for a moment in the same position which he had retained since he left his couch , `` fair and softly ; yonder slender and waving line , which the lightning hath revealed to me , looked very like a good honest hempen rope , but it may after all be but the counterfeit presentiment , the phantasma of a rope . 
As Morton muttered these exclamations with more earnestness and passion than was usual with him , there came another flash of lightning , which again revealed to him the appearance of the mysterious rope . 
Moving almost as quickly as the flash , and dexterously avoiding , as he dashed forward , the upturned faces and prostrate forms of his captors , his hand had already securely clutched the rope before the darkness had again enveloped him . 
Giving it a desperate pull with all his might , to ascertain whether it was a real , substantial cord , capable of sustaining his weight and assisting him in his escape , or only a spiritual noose to entangle him in some new and indefinite embarrassment , he soon decided that it was indeed as honest and material a rope 's end as was ever twisted . 
Without more ado , and waiting for no more illumination of any kind , he climbed rapidly and with uncommon agility to the roof , coiled himself through the narrow aperture like a serpent , and then crouched for a moment till another flash should show him the proper means of descending , without breaking limbs or neck . 
While he was thus hesitating , he heard a low , hoarse voice directly below him . 
`` Hist , hist , Master Morton , '' said the voice , `` knowest thou me not ? '' 
`` Faith , '' answered Morton , `` he must have good eyes that knoweth his oldest friend in such a pitchy atmosphere as this . 
`` Exactly so , '' answered Morton . 
`` Feel for the hickory bough , Master Morton , it will bear thy weight . '' 
So instructed , Morton groped cautiously about , moving very gingerly along the crazy roof of the edifice , which , having been originally constructed for a fort , was unfortunately of a much greater elevation than most of the rude dwellings of that day . 
Feeling that a broken leg or a dislocated ankle would hardly expedite him in his nocturnal march , Morton conducted himself so warily , that it was long before he found , at the extremity of the building , a long hickory branch , extending almost to the roof-tree . 
Grasping it , as soon as it was found , and trusting implicitly to the counsels of his enigmatical friend , he swung himself boldly out into the darkness . 
The branch yielded gently with his weight , and he felt himself descending till he knew he must be very near the ground . 
When the branch would bend no more , he relinquished his hold , and dropped easily upon the ground . 
As soon as he found himself fairly out of his prison , he cast a rapid and anxious glance around him . 
The darkness was not so intense as it had first appeared , or else there was something of the extraordinary and preternatural light returning , which had so strongly arrested his attention upon the previous evening . 
At any rate , the outlines of the landscape , the dusky figure of the dismantled fort , the dim and portentous forms of the gigantic trees , were visible , and he even fancied that he saw the faint and shadowy appearance of his mysterious friend creeping stealthily out from beneath the shadow of the hickory . 
`` Hillo , hillo , sweet philosopher , '' said he in a shrill whisper , `` is that thine own worthy self , which I behold stealing from the bushes ? '' 
`` I am glad you have escaped from the mighty man of wrath , '' said the other , creeping close up to him ; `` pray Heaven , the plague be not let loose for this . '' 
`` Poh , poh , a fico for the plague , '' answered Morton , gaily ; `` and now listen to me , my good fellow . 
`` Well , no matter about Abamoko and his pincers just now , '' replied Morton ; `` I must be off , and that speedily , but before I go , let me say thus much . 
So saying , Morton slipped a few pieces of money , the only ones which he had with him , into his companion 's hand . 
The shrill wizard laugh was wafted fitfully back from the gloom which had suddenly , as it were , ingulphed him , and was caught up by the echoing hills and reverberated through the mirky and savage silence , till it seemed to Morton as if a thousand invisible demons of the wilderness were mocking him in the darkness . 
Morton , who had only advanced a few rods in the opposite direction from that in which his mysterious friend had disappeared , crouched under a tree , and strained his eyes anxiously through the darkness . 
Then through the light , which streamed from the solitary window , Morton could distinctly perceive the forms of his late captors issuing from the house , and rushing madly with many confused and angry cries , in the direction of the fugitive . 
He had evidently been heard and seen in his moment of triumph , and had as plainly been mistaken for Morton himself . 
Shot after shot was fired , but without success , for , after the last discharge had died upon his ear , he still heard , above all other sounds , the ringing , wizard laugh , sounding more and more faintly in the distance , and repeated by the echoes in still more ghostlike and fantastic tones -- Ho , ho , ho ! 
Thisaccidental diversion in Morton 's favor was fortunate . 
The pursuers , having started off in the darkness upon a wrong scent , would hardly discover their mistake in time to molest him during the next few hours . 
He accordingly hoped to gain sufficient time to enable him to reach Merry-Mount and fortify himself there , before the enemy should besiege his stronghold . 
He was at that moment some eight or ten miles distant from his home , because it was necessary for him to go considerably about , to cross the head of the Monatoquit River , which separated the plantation of Wessaguscus from that of Passanogessit . 
He stood upon the edge of the plain , and was just starting upon his tramp through the forest , when his attention was arrested by the extraordinary appearance of the atmosphere . 
The crackling of a dried twig , under Morton 's foot , sounded like the report of a fire-arm . 
He still stood upon the plain which we have described , upon which grew here and there several gigantic oaks and chestnuts , and had advanced nearly to the edge of the forest which surrounded the clearing . 
He had paused , bewildered by the extraordinary light which had so suddenly returned . 
He was at first inclined to believe that the woods had taken fire , but there was neither smoke nor any other indication of such an event . 
The unnatural light glared still more fitfully upon the scene , and as the hardy Morton looked with terrified eyes around , he saw the mighty wood fluttering , writhing and tossing its myriad arms madly for a moment . 
In that single moment , ten thousand trees were whirled from their roots , and dashed to the earth , before his eyes . 
At the instant of the hurricane , Morton had thrown himself flat upon the earth . 
As he prostrated himself , he saw a solitary and gigantic chestnut tree , which stood near him upon the plain , flying through the air like a feather , its ponderous trunk snapped like a last year 's reed . 
The next instant a thunderbolt shivered a mighty oak which stood by itself within ten yards of him , and during the breathless moments which succeeded , as he lay with his face upon the ground , the rain pouring like a cataract , it seemed as if the earth must be powerless to absorb the thunder-bolts , which fell incessantly around him . 
How long he lay in this condition , he knew not . 
Morton aroused himself at last from his recumbent position , and looked ruefully around . 
The storm had subsided , but the night was dark , and his journey was likely to be obstructed by the multitudes of fallen trees . 
`` Well , well , '' said he to himself , `` the elemental pother is over , and , as far as I can judge , am I neither blown into the sea , nor blasted by lightning , nor ignobly drowned in a puddle , which seemed latterly most like to be my fate . 
With this the undaunted Morton set forth resolutely upon his journey . 
The atmosphere grew lighter as he advanced , and revealed to him the ravages of the tempest . 
Vast trunks of prostrate trees , upturned roots , and ponderous , broken , interwoven branches , obstructed his passage at every step . 
Still on he toiled manfully and patiently . 
In an hour and a half he had emerged from the forest , and found himself engaged in passing a vast and gloomy swamp . 
The earth quaked beneath his feet as he struggled on , springing from one tufted hammock to another , and in danger every moment of being swallowed up in the black , yielding ooze , whose treacherous nature had been aggravated by the deluge of rain which had been falling . 
Still , with the adroitness and knowledge of woodcraft which he possessed , he was enabled to escape from this , as well as from the other dangers which beset his course . 
He reached the sources of the Monatoquit . 
As he had anticipated , the slender stream was swollen into a torrent , but he found , to his gratification , that a large tree had been torn up by its roots in the whirlwind , and thrown directly across the boiling flood . 
Across this natural bridge he nimbly made his way , and again dashed into the forest . 
On he sped , the distant lightning ever and anon flashing across and illuminating his path , and assisting him in threading his difficult passage through the tangled and tempest-riven woods . 
Day was already faintly glimmering in the east , as the exhausted Morton at last reached the outer barricade of Merry-Mount . 
Morton ordered him to make all secure against an impending attack , and to awaken him in two hours . 
He then plunged into the palace , threw himself , all smoking and reeking as he was , upon a bear-skin , and fell instantly into a profound slumber . 
`` Quite time , I should say , worthy Robin , '' said the gay voice of Morton , who suddenly joined them , looking as fresh and jovial as ever , having found time , since arousing himself from his brief slumber to exchange his soiled and way-worn habiliments , and to array himself , as he said , in becoming costume to greet the distinguished visitor whom he was expecting -- `` Quite time , I assure thee , Robin , but , luckily , I do not depend upon the larum of thy tongue , to tell me when to rise when danger is nigh . 
`` From the very best authority , worthy Master Robin , '' answered Morton , `` I feel quite sure that Captain Miles Standish hath already left New Plymouth , and is even now upon his way to invade Thomas Morton of Merry-Mount . '' 
`` No less a person , honest Robin , than the aforesaid Captain Miles Standish himself , '' answered Morton . 
thou wouldst say , '' interrupted Morton . 
`` I tell thee thou shalt know all in good time , Robin , '' answered Morton ; '' but let it suffice thee now , that I have reached my palace in safety . 
then by my life ' t is no enemy , I 'll be sworn , '' exclaimed Morton . 
`` Admit the scout , Robin , he will be one more man-at-arms for our feeble garrison , '' said Morton . 
But thou knowest not my gem of sages , '' said Morton , `` the solitary subterranean of Wessaguscus , who -- '' `` Sail , ho ! '' 
cried the Canary Bird from his perch . 
ejaculated Morton , suddenly interrupting himself and mounting with wonderful rapidity to the lookout , in order to survey the scene for himself . 
After straining his eyes for a few seconds into the clear blue distance , he became convinced that the white sail which was first visible upon the edge of the horizon could be nothing else than the pinnace of Standish . 
`` Truly , the Philistines be upon us , '' cried he to Bootefish , `` and the tug of war approacheth . 
Confusion to the drunken Puritans , your honor , and -- '' `` Tush , Robin , '' interrupted Morton . 
I pledge myself , your worship -- '' `` Enough of thy pledges , honest Robin , '' interrupted Morton , `` and do me the kindness to ascend once more to the lookout , for I believe that our unfortunate friend here might as well return to the cellarage ; he is not even fit to serve as a warder . 
Morton , stepping lighly over his prostrate carcase , now hastily ascended his watch-tower . 
As he reached the summit , he saw that the pinnace of Miles Standish had already cast anchor under the cliff , and that the party who had captured him the night before were disembarking upon the beach . 
As Morton thus soliloquized , the invading party had all disembarked upon the beach , where they remained stationary , and seemed to be listening to the orders of their commander . 
Morton 's soliloquy was now cut short . 
The party upon the beach began to move , and the sovereign of Merry-Mount hastily descended from his elevated position , to prepare for their reception . 
He was now , unfortunately , in solitary grandeur , for the Canary Bird had taken advantage of his master 's temporary abstraction to again effect his escape into some unknown hiding-place , and the butler being in a hopelessly lethargic condition , there was none left but himself to defend his castle . 
Morton now took one more hasty survey of his artillery and ammunition , and then arming himself with a snaphance , he stationed himself at one of the little apertures which had been left in the palisade , and reconnoitred the enemy as they advanced . 
Morton now hesitated as to the course which he was to pursue . 
If he had not been entirely alone , if only two or three faithful followers had been at his side , it would have been perfectly easy for him to have defended his castle against the present invasion . 
It was now , however , evident that the palisade was to be attacked upon two or three points at once , for he already observed that three of the party were detailed in an opposite direction . 
It would have been easy for him , as he stood there at the embrasure , to have taken deliberate aim at Standish , and have picked him off at the head of his company . 
It would have been easy for him to have fired one raking shot with the murtherer , which would have inflicted serious damage , although the nature of the ground , and the clumsiness of his field-pieces , rendered the result of such a cannonade very doubtful . 
At all events , it was not likely that he could destroy the whole of his assailants with his single arm , nor defend his place against a desperate attack for any considerable length of time . 
While Morton was thus holding council with himself , the valiant Standish had advanced still nearer to the palisade . 
Morton covered him deliberately with his piece , the barrel of which he thrust through the embrasure , and for an instant 's space , he was inclined to yield to the promptings of the busy devil within him . 
At the same time there was something in the manly bearing of Standish , that forcibly appealed to the generous part of Morton 's nature . 
All these conflicting thoughts rushed rapidly through Morton 's brain . 
His character was more politic than desperate ; and as he reflected how infinitely complicated and disastrous would be his relations with the settlers , should his hands be stained with the blood of Standish , even if , as was most unlikely , his grim companions in arms should leave his death unrevenged a single hour , he relinquished his first and deadly purpose . 
During the infinitely small fragment of time , during which his life had been thus rapidly but minutely weighed in the balance of Morton 's mind , Miles Standish had advanced very near to the palisade , closely followed by Corporal Neegoose and four of the men-at-arms . 
`` Faith , '' answered Morton from the embrasure , `` the courtesy I have so recently experienced at thy hands , when my evil genius led me unwittingly into thy clutches , hath inspired me with small relish for a further continuance of thy acquaintance . 
`` Fire , if thou darest , '' replied Standish , without blenching , although the muzzle of Morton 's matchlock still pointed full at his breast ; `` fire , if thou darest , my death will avail thee nothing . 
`` ' T is a calumnious lie , '' shouted Morton , stung by this insult into renewed passion . 
But I will not be fretted out of my reason , and moreover -- '' `` Master Morton , '' interrupted Standish , in a peremptory tone , `` this parley hath lasted till I am weary . 
Morton was a prudent and politic man . 
During the interval which had elapsed since the first arrival of the pinnace , sufficient opportunity had been afforded him for reflection upon his position . 
Even when giving way to an explosion of passion , his reason was by no means clouded , but he had the wit to preserve a method , even in his rage . 
He had been , throughout the whole interview with Standish , collected , if not cool . 
Within less than one minute after Standish had uttered his last peremptory demand , Morton called to him , through the embrasure , in a voice which had resumed all its native gaiety , -- `` As the result of the present parley , the garrison of this fortress is disposed to capitulate . 
`` Master Morton , '' replied Captain Standish , `` I have neither time nor taste for buffoonery . 
`` The garrison , '' continued Morton , with much magnificence of manner , `` the garrison , to save the effusion of blood , and to preserve many valuable lives , doth consent to capitulate ; but it demands to go forth with all the honors of war . '' 
`` With the honors of a halter , '' roared the choleric Standish , nettled by Morton 's effrontery . 
`` Unbar the gates instantly , or I swear to thee by -- '' `` Swear not at all , most waspish of warriors , '' interrupted Morton , `` for lo , am I not already obeying the behests of the cruel conqueror ? 
At the instant of the attack , Morton quietly and slowly unbarred the portal , saying , as he did so , -- `` Fairly and softly , my masters , fairly and softly . 
The gate swung open as he concluded , and displayed Morton , standing quite alone at the entrance to his domain , with his matchlock in his hand . 
The party , headed by Standish , rushed furiously into the inclosure , and , suspecting some ambush , as they found Morton , whom they supposed surrounded by twenty followers , in such perfect solitude , Corporal Neegoose and two others made a sudden onset upon him , threw him to the ground , disarmed and bound him , and were upon the point of hand-cuffing and gagging him , when Standish interposed , and ordered them to desist . 
`` Master Morton , '' said he , `` you are my prisoner ; but from your recent behavior , I am inclined to believe you satisfied that it is useless to resist . 
`` Captain Standish , '' replied Morton , after he had shaken himself free , '' ' t would have been perchance more becoming to have treated me less like a felon , and more like a gentleman , after I had thus surrendered at discretion . 
As he concluded , Morton pointed to the prostrate Bootefish , whom several of the followers of Standish had just discovered , tranquilly enjoying his slumbers at the foot of the lookout , and whom they now were dragging forward for the inspection of their commander . 
As he listened to the last observation of Morton , and contemplated the lethargic form of Bootefish , Standish looked at his corporal with a somewhat disconcerted expression of countenance . 
Giving one contemptuous glance at the butler , the testy Standish turned his back upon Morton , and striding towards the farther extremity of the inclosure , seated himself upon a log , struck a light , and began to solace himself with a pipe of tobacco . 
In the meantime , Morton , throwing himself into a gracefully recumbent attitude upon the turf , and looking benignantly around upon his captors , observed , -- `` Make yourselves perfectly at home at this poor palace of ours , my masters . 
In the first place , although his connection with Morton still remained a secret throughout New England , he feared it might be difficult to conceal their acquaintance much longer . 
The character of Morton was so reckless and boisterous , that it well nigh neutralized the advantage which might have been derived from his knowledge of the country , and his various accomplishments . 
If he could have held his tongue , he would have been an excellent conspirator . 
His brawling propensities made him mischievous . 
As for the knight himself , such was his natural genius for intrigue , and so highly had that faculty been cultivated during his adventurous life , that he really possessed at that moment only a dim and enigmatical existence in the wilderness . 
So mysteriously did he glide to and fro , now pausing a moment in the rude cabin of some hardy settler ; now roving over moor and mountain with the dusky children of the soil ; now mingling with the stern and melancholy Puritans in their severe and primitive worship , himself more stern and more melancholy than them all ; seen occasionally of all , but mixing with none ; the place of his residence and the time of his arrival in the country alike unknown ; he seemed but an unreal shadow , a phantom , appearing , vanishing , and re-appearing at different places and seasons , without a definite purpose , and almost without a real existence . 
It was therefore rather a relief to him than otherwise , when his anxiety as to Morton was terminated by the capture and deportation of that eccentric personage . 
In the next place , Gardiner conceived strong hopes from the fortuitous conjunction of Oldham and Morton . 
Morton , who was a lawyer by profession , and possessed of no contemptible sagacity in the science , could not fail , in the course of a long voyage to England , to strengthen Oldham 's opinions as to the legality of his territorial claim . 
As for the charges against Morton , and the punishment likely to be measured out to him , Gardiner gave himself not a moment 's uneasiness . 
`` I know but little concerning him , '' was the reply ; `` a bold fellow enough , and a hardy pioneer , but restless , I believe , and uncomfortable , and more than all , a boon companion of Master Morton . 
`` Oldham , Walford , Morton , and howsoever else they may be called , '' answered Endicott , `` are all but creatures of the Gorges family . ' 
Morton , against whom nothing of importance had been found in England to warrant his detention , or to justify any interferfence with his rights as an Englishman , aided , moreover , by the intervention of influential friends , had returned to New England during the past year , in company with Isaac Allerton , the confidential agent and leading financier of the Plymouth colony , who brought him out from England in the capacity of secretary . 
The room in which they sat was Morton 's sanctum . 
A broken-winged eagle , partly tamed and wholly melancholy in his deportment , hopped disconsolately about the floor , presenting a pathetic emblem of deposed and degraded majesty , but occasionally displaying in his hoarse and indignant scream , and the furious blows of his remaining pinion , that the wings of his spirit at least were not yet wholly broken . 
Upon a rough table , stood a flask of some very transparent fluid , two or three pewter mugs , and a much thumbed copy of Horace , bound in vellum ; but by far the most interesting objects in the room , were two hawks , which stood upon their perches , one very near the head of Morton 's couch , and the other a little farther removed . 
Morton , who was certainly the very first , and probably the very last , person in Massachusetts who ever indulged in the graceful diversion of hawking , was an adept in that art , which was at that moment in the zenith of its glory in Europe , although , in consequence of the improvements of fire-arms , it fell , before the close of the century , into total disuse . 
He was at that moment , while conversing with Sir Christopher , busily employed in preparing a couple of feathers or flags , as he technically called them , which were to be imped or inserted into the wing of one of his favorite hawks , who had sustained some trifling damage during his most recent exploits . 
`` ' T is strange , '' said Morton , holding up the point of his feather to the light , and examining it with critical nicety , `` and yet you tell me that it was a fair and legitimate duello , and that Peter Cakebread officiated afterwards as sexton , and in humed the body as decorously as circumstances allowed ? '' 
continued Morton , in a voice of unaffected sorrow , `` an unlucky chance sent him to this wilderness . 
concluded he carelessly . 
`` Aye , '' answered Morton , observing , without comment , the singular agitation of his companion , `` unless he hath removed since the beginning of the week , which is not likely . 
`` Not yet , '' answered Morton , laying his feathers carefully upon the table , and walking round the chamber in search of some implement , which seemed to have been mislaid ; `` Walford still remains , but , by Jupiter , he hath met with but churlish treatment from the psalm-singers , who have taken such forcible possession of Canaan . 
As for John Oldham , -- '' `` Exactly , '' interrupted Morton , `` John Oldham , who is my very good friend and gossip now , having been , as you know , appointed by the Plymouth brethren to be my jailor ; John Oldham , who was thoroughly instructed by me touching the legality of his own lease , and of the Gorges patent in general , hath brought all the influence he could to bear against the Massachusetts company , but I am satisfied now that it is to be unsuccessful . '' 
`` With submission to your better judgment , Sir Kit , '' answered Morton , who , with characteristic philosophy , had already begun to look upon the prostrate position of his airy castles , with something of a child 's indifference , at the destruction of his card palace , so soon as the first ebullition of spleen is over , and who now seemed exceedingly interested in the amusement for which he was industriously preparing , `` I very much fear that the right worshipful Sir Ferdinando hath grown marvellously lukewarm in the matter . 
`` He is no such niggardly coward , I tell you , Morton , '' replied Gardiner , peremptorily . 
`` His letters still speak warmly and encouragingly . '' 
`` Perhaps so , '' answered Morton , `` but it is still my opinion that Sir Ferdinando 's zeal hath very much abated of late . 
`` Well , well , '' said Morton , carelessly , `` thou mayest be in the right after all , -- ` Nil mortalibus arduum , ' -- but I own that things are looking slightly complicated . 
With this Morton whistled in a peculiar note to one of his hawks . 
Of these , the one which was nearest the bedside , was hooded and belled , having not yet been so thoroughly trained as his companion . 
It was a large peregrine falcon , the bird which , after the ger falcon , which is unknown in Massachusetts , was most esteemed for his strength , docility , and audacity . 
Being a haggard , that is to say , a bird who had been taken after he was full grown , and had accordingly hunted upon his own account , he had been more difficult to reclaim and man , although , under the skilful tuition of Morton , he was already admirably and almost perfectly trained . 
As , however , he still retained a little of his native wildness , Morton kept his perch near his bedside , that he might constantly call to him and arouse him frequently during the night , so that he might never forget the sound of his voice or the habit of obedience . 
He was also , unlike his companion , not allowed to use his eyes when at home , and as he stood there reposing upon his perch , with his leathern hood , surmounted by an artificial crest of plumes , drawn closely over his head , through which only his curved and martial beak was allowed to protrude , with his wings hanging motionless at his side , exposing to view his broad chest , whose lighter-colored feathers were plaited closely upon each other like a shirt of mail , with his sinewy legs terminated by immense yellow pounces and long golden spurs , he presented a fanciful resemblance to some fierce warrior monk , brooding in slothful and gloomy captivity . 
Being an `` eyess , '' that is to say , a bird whom Morton had taken from the nest , and brought up in natural tameness , she was as obedient to her master 's voice as the best trained spaniel , and as thoroughly accomplished a creature as could have been found , at that moment , in either hemisphere . 
The bird 's eye flashed quickly , as she heard her master 's whistle , and fluttering directly from her perch , she settled upon Morton 's fist . 
The sportsman fondled the noble creature , stroked her back caressingly with his hand , and gave her a few bits of meat , from the scattered fragments of his own breakfast , which still remained upon the table . 
`` Pardon me , Sir Christopher , not for an emperor , '' said Morton ; `` and although I know you skilled in the generous craft , yet I find you not so conversant as a knight of your degree should be , with the scale of precedence among falcons . 
cried Gardiner ; `` and what do you then with yonder fellow in the leathern night-cap , for he is a peregrine if I know a hawk from a -- '' `` From a hernshaw , as the immortal swan of Avon hath it , '' interrupted Morton ; `` but you forget that when thou art Prince Palatine of Massachusetts , I am to be Earl of Merry-Mount . 
`` Marry , the sacret is for a knight , '' answered Morton , `` and the devil a one is to be found in New England . '' 
continued Gardiner , looking with a sportsman 's interest at the wing which Morton had now opened , and in which he was inserting the two feathers which he had prepared in a most artistic manner to replace two which had been broken from the pinion . 
`` Slightly , '' answered Morton ; `` but there , my trusty warrior , thy wing is imped , and thou art whole again , off to thy perch . '' 
As Morton spoke , the obedient bird fluttered to his station again , where he remained as motionless as before . 
`` Marry , Sir Christopher , I am schooled , '' answered Morton ; `` but touching my ambitious hopes , their wings have been marvellously clipped of late , and indeed , I have received some warnings of a contemplated invasion of my dominion , under the auspices of the great Joshua himself . '' 
replied Morton . 
These same brethren are never taught wisdom , '' answered Morton , `` seeing that they are all born into the world as wise as serpents , if not as harmless as doves . '' 
As he spoke , Morton shouted to his attendant Bootefish , -- `` Come hither , thou prelate , thou grave and reverend dignitary , '' he cried , `` and attend us in our sports . 
`` I am here , your worship , '' answered Bootefish , presenting his rubicund visage at the doorway . 
So speaking , Morton , who had already hooded Gaunt , now proceeded to hood and bell Ajax , and taking the haggard upon his own fist , he brought the other to Sir Christopher , saying , -- `` Although I kept Gaunt in Tom Walford 's smithy for ten days , to tame him with the sound of the hammering , yet is he not yet manned enough to sit upon other fist than my own . 
`` Thou art right , '' answered Morton , `` and ' t is a humor of mine own . 
The countenance of Gardiner looked ferocious and forbidding again , as Morton , who seemed peculiarly unlucky in his allusions that morning , made this careless query . 
He answered nothing , however , and the Lord of Merry-Mount , not observing his companion 's mood , continued , -- `` ' T is for this reason , '' he said , `` that I choose , thus arbitrarily , to designate my favorites . 
`` Yes , the poor devils are undergoing a severe seasoning , '' answered Morton , leading the way out of the palace , followed by Gardiner and Bootefish -- `` They are dying very fast of the scurvy and fever . 
`` Why , as to that , '' answered Morton , `` they have the illustrious Doctor Noddy , the great soul-saver , and body-snatcher of New Plymouth . '' 
`` Both the one and the other , '' answered Morton , `` the illustrious Noddy , whom mortals call Fuller , is , as we should say at Clifford 's Inn , a ` qui tam ' doctor , administering quite as much to the spiritual as the bodily ailments of his patients -- one , in short , who maketh a point of preparing his victims for heaven , as a compensation for abridging their allotted period upon earth . '' 
`` A cordial anathema , '' replied Morton , in a cheerful tone , `` but I hardly sympathize with your ferocity . 
`` Unquestionably , '' said Morton , `` he cured the great Captain Littleworth , whom the settlers call John Endicott , of a desperate disease . '' 
`` He was troubled , '' said Morton , `` with a chronic disease called a wife , and Doctor Fuller relieved him thereof handsomely . '' 
`` T was his masterpiece , '' continued Morton . 
Morton , who had been caressing the beautiful falcon , which sat upon his fist , during his rambling conversation with Sir Christopher , now advanced a few yards into the wind . 
He then stopped , turned about , and suddenly unstriking her hood , tossed her into the air with an encouraging shout . 
The falcon expanded her strong wings with an impulse of delight , and rose directly over head , mounting in airy circles higher and still higher , till diminished to a hardly perceptible point , she hung stationary for a moment , in the blue depths above . 
Then , as if reconnoitering the world below , and searching for a quarry , she sailed slowly along with gently flapping wings , until , apparently disappointed in her observations , she commenced again her spiral ascent till she was lost to view . 
Morton now whistled . 
There was a moment of suspense , during which nothing was visible in the sky , and Sir Christopher , who had been watching the falcon 's motions with eager interest , shook his head suspiciously at Morton , as if to intimate that the haggard had borne away her bells after all , and was not likely to obey her master 's whistle . 
Morton answered the look with a confident smile , pointing upwards as he did so . 
At that moment the black point was again visible , at the next there was a rushing sound , and the hawk falling through the air with closed wings , and with the speed of lightning , suddenly settled , as if by enchantment , upon her master 's fist . 
said Morton , patting and fondling the obedient bird . 
the gentle Jaspar , as I live , '' continued Morton , who had been hooding his falcon again , and who now courteously saluted the new comer . 
`` I had almost grown weary of waiting , '' said the youth , acknowledging the civility of Morton , `` and had I not known that the long and unutterable ponderings between you and my cousin were something tedious , I should even have broken in upon your consultations . 
`` Spoken like a young cavalier , '' said Morton gaily , `` and now let us descend upon the marshes . '' 
With this the sporting humorist led the way down the hill , and advanced along the creek , which meandered through the salt marsh , by which his domain was separated from the ocean . 
They now began to move very cautiously , because , as the season had already commenced , during which those meadows , and particularly the neighborhood of that creek , were the resort of innumerable water-fowl , including many of the varieties which yield the greatest amusement in falconry , Morton feared to flush the game before he desired it . 
`` Having no spaniel just at this moment at Merry-Mount , '' said he to Sir Christopher ; `` I have even brought the dignified Bootefish along with me to spring the fowl . 
`` I have no objection , '' answered Morton , `` to any number of dignities , but a truce to trifling now , for this business must not be neglected . '' 
Gardiner held the goshawk 's jesses loosely in his fingers , and held himself ready to unstrike her hood , as Morton designed that Ajax should fly at the game , which was first started , in order to afford a lesson to the haggard . 
The fowl rose screaming into the air , to the height of some dozen yards , and then flew in a straight line , and with great rapidity , almost directly over the heads of Morton and Gardiner . 
Morton paused at last , and shook his head . 
The duck had flown so low , so straight , and with such wonderful rapidity , that he deemed it almost impossible for the hawk to have overtaken him . 
cried Morton , `` the quarry has doubled upon her pursuer , and has lost the advantage of his straight flight . 
As Morton spoke , the quarry flew again over their heads , at about double the height at which he had started upon his course , and with somewhat diminished rapidity . 
He had evidently become disconcerted and confused by his fears , and now flew wildly and with frequent windings . 
The falcon , steady and unrelenting as destiny , followed close upon him , gaining at every turn . 
The quarry , flying swiftly still , but in irregular circlings , and hotly pursued by her enemy , was easily kept in sight by the active sportsmen , who dashed hither and thither , running and leaping in every direction taken by the game . 
Already the wings of her enemy seemed to overshadow him , when suddenly the falcon rose high into the air above his head , mounting in short and rapid circles . 
`` Mark now , Sir Christopher , '' said Morton , looking with delight at the motions of his favorite , `` mark now how beautifully she is going to stoop . '' 
The words had scarcely left his lips , when the peculiar , hurtling noise was heard , and the goshawk , falling through the air like a meteor , struck the quarry with her pounces , and despite its struggles , flew upwards , holding it aloft in triumph . 
cried Morton , whistling loudly as he spoke . 
The obedient hawk descended to her master 's call , and laid the palpitating body of her victim , whom she had beaten to death with her muscular pinions , directly at her master 's feet . 
That done , she settled upon his fist again , shaking her silver bells , and turning her lustrous eye upon his , as if to read his approbation there . 
said Morton , who had in the mean time consigned the other falcon for an instant to Bootefish , that he might hold and caress the goshawk for an instant . 
Quickly as lightning did Morton launch the falcon into the air . 
`` Now , my gentle peregrine , show the mettle you are made of , '' cried he , `` for yonder comes the first gaggle of geese I have seen this season . 
Singling , without hesitation , one from out the noisy flock of some twenty or thirty wild geese , who were swiftly winging their way from the north , not expecting such inhospitable treatment upon their arrival , he scattered confusion and dismay among them all . 
`` Looks yon falcon now , '' cried Morton , as all the sportsment together dashed off in the direction taken by the hawk , `` looks she not like a glorious old piratical Norman baron , pursuing a shrieking horde of base-born peasantry ? 
While he was speaking , the falcon , true to her breeding and her instinct , had selected and overtaken her quarry . 
Then suddenly stooping , she extended her enormous pounces , seized her victim with prodigious force , and broke its neck with one blow of her beak . 
Finding the dead body of her game too heavy to be raised aloft for an instant , and yet desirous of obeying her master 's whistle , which sounded as soon as she struck the quarry , she was obliged to fly obliquely to the ground , bringing with her the dead fowl , which she obediently deposited at her master 's feet . 
`` Truly hath she done no discredit , '' answered Morton , `` to her trainer , the future grand falconer of the Massachusetts . '' 
So saying , he rewarded the hawk by tearing out the palpitating heart of the game , and presenting it to her . 
The hawks behaved well , the peregrine falcon established her reputation forever , and the party had as much sport as they desired . 
Morton , who was never weary of the chase , and was particularly devoted to falconry , reluctantly consented to accompany them . 
It was some unusual accident which had allowed them thus to surprise this melancholy , hermit bird , who is as keen-sighted as he is solitary . 
Quickly did Morton jerk the hood from off the haggard falcon 's neck , and toss her down the wind , after the stately quarry . 
`` Bind me yon moody , long-legged misanthrope , '' cried he , as he whistled off his hawk , `` kill me him handsomely , and like a gallant falcon as thou art , and thou shalt win a crown of glory both for thy master and thyself . '' 
`` Never fear the peregrine , '' cried Morton gaily , though somewhat out of breath ; `` my life on her courage and her success ! '' 
The falcon gained upon him very fast , but seemed somewhat wary in approaching him . 
Although not courting a combat , but on the contrary evidently desirous of escaping his enemy by ignoble-flight , yet there seemed something dangerous in the melancholy bird , which made the high mettled falcon cautious in her attack . 
As she neared the quarry , however , which she did within a very few minutes after she had been first launched in his pursuit , she seemed to be thrusting forth her mighty talons to grapple with her prey . 
Then , as if altering her intention , she suddenly rose spirally far above the heron , till she was almost entirely lost from view . 
During all this time , Morton , who had advanced far beyond his companions , stood gazing eagerly and almost breathlessly upward . 
In a moment , while the heron , somewhat perplexed , was steadily beating the air in the same direction which she had at first taken , the hawk suddenly appeared , falling as it were out of the heavens , from some invisible height , and swooping down upon her prey . 
When within a few yards of the quarry , however , she suddenly turned upon her wing , recovered herself , and slowly mounted again . 
`` How magnificently she cancelliers , '' cried Morton , still gazing intently upwards , and wholly rapt in the issue of the sport . 
There was no answer , but Morton would have heard none , had it been made . 
The heron meanwhile , somewhat puzzled by the manœuvres of his adversary , doubled upon his course , and now flew in rather a circling and hesitating manner . 
Again the rushing sound struck the ear , and the falcon stooping again from a prodigious height , fell like a thunderbolt upon her prey . 
This time there was no cancelliering , but descending in a concentrated mass , she struck the quarry full in the back with her ferocious talons . 
The heron , desperately wounded , and struggling vainly to elude her clutches , at last flew slowly off , bearing his audacious enemy upon his shoulders . 
The falcon , meanwhile , strove to break the neck of her foe by repeated and powerful strokes of her beak , and made no effort to alter the direction of their flight . 
Eagerly did Morton , totally lost to every thing in the world below , gaze upwards at the combatants , who now hung suspended in air a few hundred yards above his head . 
At the next instant , both hawk and heron fell headlong to the ground , and lay locked in a deadly embrace at Morton 's feet . 
Morton stooped eagerly down , extricated his favorite from the deadly weapon of her antagonist , which still transfixed her , tore her talons from his palpitating body , and placed her in his bosom . 
`` Thy last flight is flown , my matchless haggard , '' said Morton , with a tear in his eye , gazing with unaffected sorrow upon the body of the falcon , and then laying her down side by side with her powerful enemy , who lay stone dead at his feet . 
`` Ye shall be buried together in one grave , '' said he at last , after contemplating the pair long and mournfully . 
concluded he , turning suddenly round . 
cried a voice at his side , which sounded very unlike that of Gardiner or of Jaspar . 
`` And who the devil art thou , '' cried Morton in astonishment , `` who art thus prophesying upon the salt marshes ? '' 
Morton might well have been surprised , for as he looked about him , there was not a trace to be seen of Sir Christopher and the gentle Jaspar , and in their places he found himself surrounded by a party of grim-visaged Puritans , armed to the teeth , who evidently intended to devote themselves that morning exclusively to himself . 
Sir Christopher Gardiner , however , whose eagle eye , keener than that of hawk or heron , had observed the party at a long distance , as , after having apparently made an unsuccessful search at Merry-Mount , they descended upon the marshes , had eluded their observation , and , accompanied by his cousin , had glided unperceived away , at a time when Morton , in his eagerness , had advanced to so great a distance that it was wholly out of the knight 's power to give him warning . 
Morton , being used to such scenes , saw at once that all resistance would be useless . 
Moreover , after the first surprise was over , and he had found himself captured beyond all peradventure , his thoughts reverted to his dead falcon . 
That he was arrested did not surprise him , and he had long since exhausted his indignation at the tyrannical persecution which the Puritans seemed determined to inflict upon him . 
He should soon extricate himself , he thought , from this new dilemma , but who could restore to life his gallant hawk , who he had been training so long , and who was as dear to him as the apple of his eye . 
Looking with profound contempt at the rigid countenances of his captors , he again raised the dead body of his favorite from the ground , and placed it in his bosom . 
Absorbed in his melancholy reflections , he stood there fondling the creature , whispering and whistling to her , as if his endearments could recall her to life , and hearing not a single word of the long exhortation with which the leader of the party was indulging him . 
said Morton carelessly , still caressing his hawk . 
replied Morton ; `` truly , I have as little relish for their company as they for mine . '' 
So saying , the captain of the party led the way , and his soldiers , taking Morton in their midst , started on their march to Charlestown . 
Besides the armed attendants upon the magistrates , who answered Morton 's flippant remarks with forbidding silence , there were clustered together , in the different corners of the room , a few stragglers , who appeared to be awaiting the arrival of the court , and who , in the mean time , were conversing in a low tone with one another . 
None of the party had observed the presence of Morton , so intent had they been upon their own conversation , nor was any one of them acquainted with his person . 
As his whole appearance , however , indicated a character of an entirely different stamp from their own , they now looked upon him with great curiosity , as he stood boiling over with indignation at the foul calumny which he had just heard concerning himself . 
roared Morton , continuing to vent his indignation in words of ludicrous vehemence , while his guards held him tightly in their arms , and vainly endeavored to stop his tongue -- `` I say thou art a slanderer ! 
cried the menat-arms , holding him tightly , and at last succeeding in stopping his mouth , just as the door opened -- `` seest thou not that their worships are about to enter ? '' 
As he placed himself upon a slightly elevated seat , behind a large table at the upper end of the room , while Dudley and Johnson occupied the seats upon either side , and the rest of the assistants arranged themselves around the table , even Morton himself could not look upon him without respect . 
Morton , who had been listlessly observing the course of criminal jurisprudence adopted by the colony , and awaiting with some curiosity the decision of their worships upon his own case , now pricked up his ears , as he heard the name of the last culprit announced . 
muttered Morton , compassionating the unlucky predicament of his former vassal ; `` could not thy lesson , learned at the Plymouth whipping-post , make thee wiser ? 
roared Dudley , looking towards Morton , who was thus soliloquizing , in an almost audible tone ; `` silence ! 
As he was about departing , his eye fell upon Morton , who was standing near the door-way , and who was at that moment recognised by Humphrey Rednape , as the sergeant was leading him away . 
said Morton , `` demand rather , how can a living man keep out of a scrape , now that the kingdom of the saints be fairly established . 
roared the deputy , thoroughly enraged at the flippant conduct of Morton and the insolence of the blacksmith . 
interrupted Morton , `` convicted before trial . 
`` So I intend to do , may it please the worshipful magistrates , '' continued the imperturbable Morton , `` but the governor must even borrow the archangel 's trumpet to outbray the voice of this respectable person , whom I take to be the crier of the court , and who , with submission , seems to me unnecessarily vociferous in proclaiming silence . '' 
Thus coolly rebuking the grim deputy , Morton turned demurely to the governor , who said in reply to his first observation , -- `` We do not intend to argue any legal points with you . 
`` Would it be entirely superfluous , '' said Morton , `` on the part of the Court , to give the criminal a trifling hint of some few of the high crimes and misdemeanors he is charged withal ? 
`` Sayest thou so , my gentle lambkin , '' cried Morton , filled with indignation at the injustice with which he considered himself treated , and venting it as usual in the most rigmarole terms . 
and all the puisnè justices of Pluto 's grim dominion , '' cried Morton in a whirlwind of eccentric indignation , `` is this the jurisprudence practised in the kingdom of the saints ? 
`` I will not be silent , '' cried Morton , with rising rage , `` by heavens ! 
`` I tell ye , '' continued Morton , `` that it is all one long , ludicrous patchwork , this your list of charges against me . 
`` Aye , I suppose I should go down upon my marrow bones , '' persisted Morton , `` and offer humble and hearty thanks that ye have left my head upon my shoulders , or at least my ears upon my head , after the atrocious crimes of which I have been convicted and condemned without a trial . 
In the mean time , this being the day appointed for Morton 's penance , and the hour of noon having arrived , a sergeant , with four men-at-arms appeared , bringing with them in durance vile , the luckless Lord of Merry-Mount . 
`` This be that individual , your worship , '' answered Bootefish , for it was no other than that worthy person , who was terminating thus ignobly a vagrant career in different parts of New England , which he had begun upon Morton 's first capture by Miles Standish ; `` this be the individual , if a man in a wooden jerkin like this can be called by that honored name . 
`` Ah , they have got the upper hand of us , '' said Morton , `` and they show no generosity in their victory . 
`` Not a whit , not a whit , '' said the indomitable Morton , gaily . 
As Morton spoke , several persons crossed the square , looking sadly and earnestly , first at one of the culprits , and then at the other . 
He stood for a moment in the centre of the square , looking alternately at Morton and at Bootefish ; heaved a deep sigh , and then seemed almost to prostrate himself upon the ground . 
muttered Morton , whom this last indignity , inflicted by the meanest of his former vassals , wounded deeply -- `` alas ! 
`` We meet again , Esther Ludlow , '' said he , in a gentle and melancholy tone , `` we meet again , never to separate . '' 
Esther , as pale as ashes , looked in his face without power of reply . 
Morton was now in prison , hourly awaiting his transportation to England , and every other part of the sentence had been executed , excepting the ordained destruction of the Merry-Mount palace . 
This had , for a variety of reasons , been deferred , and the party who were that day charged , by the magistrates , with the apprehension of Gardiner , had likewise received orders to proceed afterwards to Morton 's domain , and to destroy his house . 
By Maudsley 's orders , they now proceeded to set fire to the palace , as well as to all the log huts and hovels which were scattered about Morton 's domain . 
His connection with the Gorges patent had ever been rather nominal and accidental than real , and since the arrival of the new settlers , and the summary measures which had been taken in regard to Morton , Walford , Gardiner in New England , and Oldham at home , he had dismissed from his thoughts the subject concerning which he had been used occasionally to hear discussions from the mouths of Gardiner and Morton . 
He had certainly never much interested himself in the merits of the rival claimants to the dominion of Massachusetts . 
He considered himself as a pilgrim in a wilderness , a hermit in a desert , and he had a whimsical but profound contempt for every species of human authority . 
He had allowed himself to be whirled by an eddy entirely aside from the rushing current of human affairs , and he had long since devoted his existence to solitude and nature . 
Had he foreseen that the band of emigrants who , in small companies and at different intervals , had been arriving during the last two or three years , were so soon to lay the foundation of a permanent empire , and so soon to scare the spirit of sylvan solitude from the lovely peninsula where he had established his home , it is probable that he might have attempted some means of counteracting their plans by any fair and amicable arrangement that was possible . 
He considered himself the sole proprietor of Shawmut , or , as it was now called , Boston , by right of occupation . 
He was the first Englishman who had ever slept upon the peninsula , and he had dwelt there in undisturbed dominion during five or six years . 
His gentle nature , however , having been touched by the sufferings of the colonists at Charlestown , he had voluntarily gone over to the governor and expressly invited them to his peninsula , assuring them of the sufficiency at least of fair water-springs , which were so much wanting at Mishawum . 
Gardiner found that his friend Morton had been right , in supposing that Sir Ferdinando had grown lukewarm in the New England schemes . 
Morton , Gardiner , and Ratcliff , however , continued for some years to prefer complaints before the Lords of the Privy Council , against the government of the Massachusetts colony , in which they were sustained by Gorges . 
