And why should this be so , Alan ? 
Above all , why , when I fill this very glass of wine , can not I push the bottle to you , and say , `` Fairford , you are chased ! '' 
Why , I say , should not all this be , except because Alan Fairford has not the same true sense of friendship as Darsie Latimer , and will not regard our purses as common as well as our sentiments ? 
Answer me that , Alan Fairford . 
-- why , Alan Fairford . 
-- why , Alan . 
-- Alan , once more . 
Yes , rather than part with you , Alan , I attended a weary season at the Scotch Law Class ; a wearier at the Civil ; and with what excellent advantage , my note-book filled with caricatures of the professors and my fellow-students , is it not yet extant to testify ? 
But it will not do , Alan . 
Now , do n't you read this to your worthy father , Alan -- he loves me well enough , I know , of a Saturday night ; but he thinks me but idle company for any other day of the week . 
He reckons me a lone thing in this world , Alan , and so in good truth I am ; and it seems a reason to him why you should not attach yourself to me , that I can claim no interest in the general herd . 
Do not suppose I forget what I owe him , for permitting me to shelter for four years under his roof : My obligations to him are not the less , but the greater , if he never heartily loved me . 
He is angry , too , that I will not , or can not , be a lawyer , and , with reference to you , considers my disinclination that way as pessimi exempli , as he might say . 
Then will I step forth , Alan , and in a character which even your father will allow may be more useful to you than had I shared this splendid termination of your legal studies . 
Thus far I have fooled it off well enough ; and yet , Alan , all is not at ease within me . 
Do you remember what Mr Fairford said to me on this subject , -- it did not become my father 's son to speak in that manner to Sam 's father 's son ? 
Mercy upon us , Alan ! 
Exceptio firmat regulam -- But come , fill your glass , Alan ; I am not sorry ye have shown this attention to Darsie Latimer , who is a good lad , as times go ; and having now lived under my roof since he left the school , why , there is really no great matter in coming under this small obligation to him . '' 
`` It is very true , '' he said ; `` Darsie was a pleasant companion -- but over waggish , over waggish , Alan , and somewhat scatter-brained . 
-- But Darsie , as I was saying , is an arch lad , and somewhat light in the upper story -- I wish him well through the world ; but he has little solidity , Alan , little solidity . '' 
`` Unstable as water , he shall not excel , '' said my father ; `` or , as the Septuagint hath it , Effusa est sicut aqua -- non crescat . 
He goeth to dancing-houses , and readeth novels -- sat est. '' I endeavoured to parry these texts by observing , that the dancing-houses amounted only to one night at La Pique 's ball -- the novels -LRB- so far as matter of notoriety , Darsie -RRB- to an odd volume of Tom Jones . 
`` But he danced from night to morning , '' replied my father , `` and he read the idle trash , which the author should have been scourged for , at least twenty times over . 
It was never out of his hand . '' 
`` If he can not amuse himself with the law , '' said my father , snappishly , `` it is the worse for him . 
If he needs not law to teach him to make a fortune , I am sure he needs it to teach him how to keep one ; and it would better become him to be learning this , than to be scouring the country like a landlouper , going he knows not where , to see he knows not what , and giving treats at Noble-House to fools like himself , '' -LRB- an angry glance at poor me . -RRB- 
-- that he may have been a natural son of a first cousin of the then Fairford of that Ilk , who had been long numbered among the minor barons . 
I own that whether it is from my having caught my father 's apprehensions , or that I have reason to entertain doubts of my own , I often think that this wildfire chase , of romantic situation and adventure , may lead thee into some mischief ; and then what would become of Alan Fairford ? 
-- I tell thee , Alan , I have seen a better seated on the fourth round of a ladder , and painting a bare-breeched Highlander , holding a pint-stoup as big as himself , and a booted Lowlander , in a bobwig , supporting a glass of like dimensions ; the whole being designed to represent the sign of the Salutation . 
Seriously , Alan , this imputed poverty of spirit is a shabby charge to bring against your friend . 
This offensive insinuation disposed of , I thank thee , Alan , for the rest of thy epistle . 
The flight of Falkirk -- parma non bene selecta -- in which I think your sire had his share with the undaunted western regiment , does not seem to have improved his taste for the company of the Highlanders ; -LRB- quære , Alan , dost thou derive the courage thou makest such boast of from an hereditary source ? -RRB- 
-- and stories of Rob Roy Macgregor , and Sergeant Alan Mhor Cameron , Of Rob Roy we have had more than enough . 
Alan Cameron , commonly called Sergeant Mhor , a freebooter of the same period , was equally remarkable for strength , courage , and generosity . 
Thou canst not have forgotten , Alan -- for when didst thou ever forget what was interesting to thy friend ? 
-- Where is the tale , Alan , of a covered dish in the midst of a royal banquet , upon which the eyes of every guest were immediately fixed , neglecting all the dainties with which the table was loaded ? 
Hang thee , Alan , thou art as unfit a confidant for a youthful gallant with some spice of imagination , as the old taciturn secretary of Facardin of Trebizond . 
I gave him a sound cuff , Alan ; but the next moment was sorry , and , to make amends , yielded possession of the fishing-rod for the rest of the evening , he undertaking to bring me home a dish of trouts for my supper , in atonement for his offences . 
Ay , Alan , lift up your hands and eyes as you will , I can give their mode of fishing no name so appropriate ; for they chased the fish at full gallop , and struck them with their barbed spears , as you see hunters spearing boars in the old tapestry . 
Why was it , Alan , that I could not help giving an involuntary shudder at receiving an invitation so seasonable in itself , and so suitable to my naturally inquisitive disposition ? 
I easily suppressed this untimely sensation ; and , as I returned thanks , and expressed my hope that I should not disarrange his family , I once more dropped a hint of my desire to make compensation for any trouble I might occasion . 
The descent by which we plunged into this dell was both steep and rugged , with two or three abrupt turnings ; but neither danger nor darkness impeded the motion of the black horse , who seemed rather to slide upon his haunches , than to gallop down the pass , throwing me again on the shoulders of the athletic rider , who , sustaining no inconvenience by the circumstance , continued to press the horse forward with his heel , steadily supporting him at the same time by raising his bridle-hand , until we stood in safety at the bottom of the steep -- not a little to my consolation , as , friend Alan , thou mayst easily conceive . 
Now , if thou expectest a fine description of this young woman , Alan Fairford , in order to entitle thee to taunt me with having found a Dulcinea in the inhabitant of a fisherman 's cottage on the Solway Frith , thou shalt be disappointed ; for , having said she seemed very pretty , and that she was a sweet and gentle-speaking creature , I have said all concerning her that I can tell thee . 
Alan , there is something terrible about this man . 
Mr Crossbite smiles and bows , as a lawyer smiles on the solicitor who employs him , and I dare say , thrusts his tongue into his cheek , and whispers into the first great wig that passes him , `` What the d -- l does old Fairford mean by letting loose his whelp on me ? '' 
The instant Mr Crossbite had ended what he had to say , this gentleman walked up to my father , with , `` Your servant , Mr Fairford -- it is long since you and I met . '' 
`` So well , my good Mr Fairford , that I come hither determined to renew my acquaintance with one or two old friends , and with you in the first place . 
It was with a look of scorn that he replied , `` I will relieve you then till that hour , Mr Fairford ; '' and his whole manner seemed to say , `` It is my pleasure to dine with you , and I care not whether I am welcome or no . '' 
insinuated I. My father replied by that famous brocard with which he silences all unacceptable queries , turning in the slightest degree upon the failings of our neighbours , -- `` If we mend our own faults , Alan , we shall all of us have enough to do , without sitting in judgment upon other folks . '' 
`` He is well entitled , '' said my father , `` representing Herries of Birrenswork ; a branch of that great and once powerful family of Herries , the elder branch whereof merged in the house of Nithesdale at the death of Lord Robin the Philosopher , Anno Domini sixteen hundred and sixty-seven . '' 
-- Do not leave them in the lock -- you know poor James 's failing , though he is an honest creature under all other temptations -- and I have but two bottles of the old brandy left -- we must keep it for medicine , Alan . '' 
I believe my father read my thoughts in my eye ; for , pulling out his watch , he said , `` Half past four , Alan -- you should be in your own room by this time -- Birrenswork will excuse you . '' 
`` What business has he to upbraid us , '' I said , `` with the change of our dwelling from a more inconvenient to a better quarter of the town ? 
What was it to him if we chose to imitate some of the conveniences or luxuries of an English dwelling-house , instead of living piled up above each other in flats ? 
Have his patrician birth and aristocratic fortunes given him any right to censure those who dispose of the fruits of their own industry , according to their own pleasure ? '' 
My father took a long pinch of snuff , and replied , `` Very well , Alan ; very well indeed . 
You know my old failing , Alan , and that I am always willing to attend to any thing in preference to the individual who has for the time possession of the conversation . 
But to thy alarm be it spoken , Alan , we did not come so far as the frying of our fish without farther adventure . 
Mr Geddes hastened to the stable-yard to view personally the condition of his favourite , and I followed , to offer my counsel as a jockey -- Do n't laugh , Alan ; sure I have jockeyship enough to assist a Quaker -- in this unpleasing predicament . 
You can not make any of your vile inferences here , Alan , for I have given a full-length picture of Rachel Geddes ; so that you can not say in this case , as in the letter I have just received , that she was passed over as a subject on which I feared to dilate . 
Then , Alan , there was such a dispatching of the good things of the morning , as you have not witnessed since you have seen Darsie Latimer at breakfast . 
These good folks , Alan , make no allowance for what your father calls the Aberdeen-man 's privilege of `` taking his word again ; '' or what the wise call second thoughts . 
You know , Alan , how easily I am determined by any thing resembling cordiality -- and so , though a little afraid of the formality of my host and hostess , I accepted their invitation , provided I could get some messenger to send to Shepherd 's Bush for my servant and portmanteau . 
Some ladies we have known would have felt , or at least affected , reserve or embarrassment , at being left to do the honours of the grounds to -- -LRB- it will be out , Alan -RRB- -- a smart young fellow -- an entire stranger . 
I am not quite of her mind , Alan . 
I know that you , Alan , will condemn all this as bad and antiquated ; for , ever since Dodsley has described the Leasowes , and talked of Brown 's imitations of nature , and Horace Walpole 's late Essay on Gardening , you are all for simple nature -- condemn walking up and down stairs in the open air , and declare for wood and wilderness . 
At any rate , Alan , had you condemned as artificial the rest of Friend Geddes 's grounds , there is a willow walk by the very verge of the stream , so sad , so solemn , and so silent , that it must have commanded your admiration . 
The Laird behaves with haughtiness and impertinence -- nothing out of character in that : Is not kicked down stairs , as he ought to have been , were Alan Fairford half the man that he would wish his friends to think him . 
-- Ay , but then , as the young lawyer , instead of showing his friend the door , chose to make use of it himself , he overheard the Laird aforesaid ask the old lawyer concerning Darsie Latimer -- no doubt earnestly enquiring after the handsome , accomplished inmate of his family , who has so lately made Themis his bow , and declined the honour of following her farther . 
And yet -- and yet -- I would rally the matter off , Alan ; but in dark nights , even the glow-worm becomes an object of lustre , and to one plunged in my uncertainty and ignorance , the slightest gleam that promises intelligence , is interesting . 
`` The devil may be in the matter , for aught I ken , '' said James , with another provoking grin ; `` for here has been a woman calling for you , Maister Alan . '' 
But I reckoned without my host ; for James , who had his own curiosity as well as I , was lying perdu in the lobby , ready to open at the first tinkle ; and there was , `` This way , ma'am -- Yes , ma'am -- The lady , Mr Alan , '' before I could get to the chair in which I proposed to be discovered , seated in all legal dignity . 
But you enquired for Alan Fairford -- my father 's name is Alexander . '' 
`` It is Mr Alan Fairford , undoubtedly , with whom I wished to speak , '' she said , with greater confusion ; `` but I was told that he was advanced in life . '' 
`` Mr Alan , what takes you out , rinning like daft , without your hat ? '' 
I had no mind , by a second sudden appearance , to confirm the report that Advocate Fairford was `` gaen daft , '' which had probably spread from Campbell 's close-foot to the Mealmarket Stairs ; and so slunk back within my own hole again . 
I had accidentally learned that Mr Darsie Latimer had an intimate friend and associate in a Mr A. Fairford . 
On enquiry at Brown 's Square , where I understood he resided , I used the full name of Alan , which naturally occasioned you the trouble of this day 's visit . 
No one supposes that Mr Fairford 's zeal in his friend 's service , needs to be quickened by mercenary motives . 
But report says that Mr Alan Fairford not having yet entered on his professional career , may , in such a case as this , want the means , though he can not want the inclination , to act with promptitude . 
The enclosed note , Mr Alan Fairford must be pleased to consider as his first professional emolument ; and she who sends it hopes it will be the omen of unbounded success , though the fee comes from a hand so unknown as that of `` Green Mantle . '' 
To call a new cause -- I have the pleasure to tell you , that Alan has passed his private Scots Law examinations with good approbation -- a great relief to my mind ; especially as worthy Mr. Pest told me in my ear there was no fear of the `` callant , '' as he familiarly called him , which gives me great heart . 
And , to be plain with you , after my use and wont , Master Darsie , it may be as well that Alan and you do not meet till he is hefted as it were to his new calling . 
Alan , however , -LRB- overpassing my small savings , -RRB- has the world to win ; and louping and laughing , as you and he were wont to do , would soon make the powder flee out of his wig , and the pence out of his pocket . 
I remain , dear sir , your well-wishing friend , and obedient to command , Alexander Fairford P.S. -- Alan 's Thesis is upon the title De periculo et commodo rei venditæ , and is a very pretty piece of Latinity . 
The plot thickens , Alan . 
No -- I can not be with you , Alan ; and that , for the best of all reasons -- I can not and ought not to counteract your father 's anxious wishes . 
In the meantime , kind Alan , let me proceed in my diurnal . 
-LRB- In fact , Alan , my companion mimicked , with a good deal of humour , the flattering , conciliating tone of the tenant 's address , and the hypocritical melancholy of the Laird 's reply . 
This young person -- Alan , thou art in thy way a bit of a conjurer -- this young person whom I did not describe , and whom you , for that very reason , suspected was not an indifferent object to me -- is , I am sorry to say it , in very fact not so much so as in prudence she ought . 
And I did not , Alan . 
What an ass was I , Alan , not to have anticipated her wishes ! 
And now , my dearest Alan , you are in full possession of my secret -- let me as frankly into the recesses of your bosom . 
Tell me honestly ; for however the recollection of her may haunt my own mind , my love for Alan Fairford surpasses the love of woman . 
It was after dinner , and I was considering how I might best introduce to my father the private resolution I had formed to set off for Dumfries-shire , or whether I had not better run away at once , and plead my excuse by letter , when , assuming the peculiar look with which he communicates any of his intentions respecting me , that he suspects may not be altogether acceptable , `` Alan , '' he said , `` ye now wear a gown -- ye have opened shop , as we would say of a more mechanical profession ; and , doubtless , ye think the floor of the courts is strewed with guineas , and that ye have only to stoop down to gather them ? '' 
Ye know very well , Alan , that in the other faculty who study the Ars medendi , before the young doctor gets to the bedsides of palaces , he must , as they call it , walk the hospitals ; and cure Lazarus of his sores , before he be admitted to prescribe for Dives , when he has gout or indigestion '' -- `` I am aware , sir , that '' -- `` Whisht -- do not interrupt the court -- Well -- also the chirurgeons have an useful practice , by which they put their apprentices and tyrones to work upon senseless dead bodies , to which , as they can do no good , so they certainly can do as little harm ; while at the same time the tyro , or apprentice , gains experience , and becomes fit to whip off a leg or arm from a living subject , as cleanly as ye would slice an onion . '' 
`` Maybe you think , Alan , because I have , doubtless , the management of some actions in dependence , whilk my worthy clients have intrusted me with , that I may think of airting them your way instanter ; and so setting you up in practice , so far as my small business or influence may go ; and , doubtless , Alan , that is a day whilk I hope may come round . 
`` I am so far , '' answered I , `` from wishing to get early into practice , sir , that I would willingly bestow a few days '' -- `` In farther study , ye would say , Alan . 
`` I am sure , '' I replied , `` I will undertake the cause of any poor man with pleasure , and bestow as much pains upon it as if it were a duke 's ; but for the next two or three days '' -- `` They must be devoted to close study , Alan -- very close study indeed ; for ye must stand primed for a hearing , in presentia Dominorum , upon Tuesday next . '' 
`` Ye can not spoil it , Alan , '' said my father , rubbing his hands with much complacency ; `` that is the very cream of the business , man -- it is just , as I said before , a subject upon whilk all the tyrones have been trying their whittles for fifteen years ; and as there have been about ten or a dozen agents concerned , and each took his own way , the case is come to that pass , that Stair or Arniston could not mend it ; and I do not think even you , Alan , can do it much harm -- ye may get credit by it , but ye can lose none . '' 
`` Besides , sir , '' I added , `` he is on the Poor 's Roll ; and you know there are advocates regularly appointed to manage those cases ; and for me to presume to interfere '' -- `` Whisht , Alan ! 
-- never interrupt the court -- all that is managed for ye like a tee 'd ball ; '' -LRB- my father sometimes draws his similes from his once favourite game of golf ;-RRB- -- `` you must know , Alan , that Peter 's cause was to have been opened by young Dumtoustie -- ye may ken the lad , a son of Dumtoustie of that ilk , member of Parliament for the county of -- , and a nephew of the Laird 's younger brother , worthy Lord Bladderskate , whilk ye are aware sounds as like being akin to a peatshipFormerly , a lawyer , supposed to be under the peculiar patronage of any particular judge , was invidiously termed his peat or pet . 
-LRB- as , indeed , Alan , they are none of the least , -RRB- he took fright , called for his nag , lap on , and away to the country is he gone ; and so , said Saunders , my lord is at his wit 's end wi ' vexation and shame , to see his envoy break off the course at the very starting . 
And then , Alan , I thought to turn the ball our own way ; and I said that you were a gey sharp birkie , just off the irons , and if it would oblige my lord , and so forth , you would open Peter 's cause on Tuesday , and make some handsome apology for the necessary absence of your learned friend , and the loss which your client and the court had sustained , and so forth . 
Saunders lap at the proposition , like a cock at a grossart ; for , he said , the only chance was to get a new hand , that did not ken the charge he was taking upon him ; for there was not a lad of two Sessions ' standing that was not deadsick of Peter Peebles and his cause ; and he advised me to break the matter gently to you at the first ; but I told him you were a good bairn , Alan , and had no will and pleasure in these matters but mine . '' 
-- how , Alan ? '' 
-- Think of your oath of office , Alan , and your duty to your father , my dear boy . '' 
You may find wiser advisers , Alan , but none that can wish you better . '' 
After we had been , with a good deal of form , presented to each other , at which time I easily saw by my father 's manner that he was desirous of supporting Peter 's character in my eyes , as much as circumstances would permit , `` Alan , '' he said , `` this is the gentleman who has agreed to accept of you as his counsel , in place of young Dumtoustie . '' 
`` I have made a short abbreviate , Mr Peebles , '' said he ; `` having sat up late last night , and employed much of this morning in wading through these papers , to save Alan some trouble , and I am now about to state the result . '' 
-- Mr Fairford elder , your good health , '' -LRB- a mouthful of brandy -RRB- -- `` Mr Alan Fairford , wishing you well through your arduous undertaking , '' -LRB- another go-down of the comfortable liquor . -RRB- 
`` As Tweed comes to Melrose , I think , '' said the litigant ; and then filling his goblet about a quarter full of brandy , as if in absence of mind , `` Oh , Mr Alan Fairford , ye are a lucky man to buckle to such a cause as mine at the very outset ! 
But if the heathen be ower strong , we 'll christen him with the brewer , '' -LRB- here he added a little small beer to his beverage , paused , rolled his eyes , winked , and proceeded , -RRB- -- `` Mr Fairford -- the action of assault and battery , Mr Fairford , when I compelled the villain Plainstanes to pull my nose within two steps of King Charles 's statue , in the Parliament Close -- there I had him in a hose-net . 
`` And then to come back to my pet process of all -- my battery and assault process , when I had the good luck to provoke him to pull my nose at the very threshold of the Court , whilk was the very thing I wanted -- Mr Pest , ye ken him , Daddie Fairford ? 
By the Regiam , Fairford -- Daddie Fairford -- lend us twal pennies to buy sneeshing , mine is done -- Macer , call another cause . '' 
`` Here are my memoranda , Alan , '' he said , in a hurried way ; `` look them carefully over -- compare them with the processes , and turn it in your head before Tuesday . 
Here are five goud guineas in a silk purse -- of your poor mother 's netting , Alan -- she would have been a blithe woman to have seen her young son with a gown on his back -- but no more of that -- be a good boy , and to the work like a tiger . '' 
Once more , be careful of yourself , and mindful of me , who am ever thine , while Alan Fairford . 
With this explanation , we shall proceed to narrate some circumstances which Alan Fairford did not , and could not , write to his correspondent . 
So that , on the whole , Mr Fairford was a man much liked and respected on all sides , though his friends would not have been sorry if he had given a dinner more frequently , as his little cellar contained some choice old wine , of which , on such rare occasions , he was no niggard . 
The whole pleasure of this good old-fashioned man of method , besides that which he really felt in the discharge of his daily business , was the hope to see his son Alan , the only fruit of a union which death early dissolved , attain what in the father 's eyes was the proudest of all distinctions -- the rank and fame of a well-employed lawyer . 
Every profession has its peculiar honours , and Mr Fairford 's mind was constructed upon so limited and exclusive a plan , that he valued nothing , save the objects of ambition which his own presented . 
He would have shuddered at Alan 's acquiring the renown of a hero , and laughed with scorn at the equally barren laurels of literature ; it was by the path of the law alone that he was desirous to see him rise to eminence , and the probabilities of success or disappointment were the thoughts of his father by day , and his dream by night . 
The disposition of Alan Fairford , as well as his talents , were such as to encourage his father 's expectations . 
He had acuteness of intellect , joined to habits of long and patient study , improved no doubt by the discipline of his father 's house ; to which , generally speaking , he conformed with the utmost docility , expressing no wish for greater or more frequent relaxation than consisted with his father 's anxious and severe restrictions . 
When he did indulge in any juvenile frolics , his father had the candour to lay the whole blame upon his more mercurial companion , Darsie Latimer . 
This youth , as the reader must be aware , had been received as an inmate into the family of Mr Fairford , senior , at a time when some of the delicacy of constitution which had abridged the life of his consort , began to show itself in the son , and when the father was , of course , peculiarly disposed to indulge his slightest wish . 
That the young Englishman was able to pay a considerable board , was a matter of no importance to Mr Fairford ; it was enough that his presence seemed to make his son cheerful and happy . 
He was compelled to allow that `` Darsie was a fine lad , though unsettled , '' and he would have had some difficulty in getting rid of him , and the apprehensions which his levities excited , had it not been for the voluntary excursion which gave rise to the preceding correspondence , and in which Mr Fairford secretly rejoiced , as affording the means of separating Alan from his gay companion , at least until he should have assumed , and become accustomed to , the duties of his dry and laborious profession . 
But the absence of Darsie was far from promoting the end which the elder Mr Fairford had expected and desired . 
Alan Fairford was averse to general company , from a disposition naturally reserved , and Darsie Latimer from a painful sense of his own unknown origin , peculiarly afflicting in a country where high and low are professed genealogists . 
The young men were all in all to each other ; it is no wonder , therefore , that their separation was painful , and that its effects upon Alan Fairford , joined to the anxiety occasioned by the tenor of his friend 's letters , greatly exceeded what the senior had anticipated . 
A philosopher would have given way to this tide of feeling , in hopes to have diminished its excess , and permitted the youths to have been some time together , that their intimacy might have been broken off by degrees ; but Mr Fairford only saw the more direct mode of continued restraint , which , however , he was desirous of veiling under some plausible pretext . 
`` Alan , '' he said , `` was ance wud , and aye waur ; and he was expecting every moment when he would start off in a wildgoosechase after the callant Latimer ; Will Sampson , the horse-hirer in Candlemaker Row , had given him a hint that Alan had been looking for a good hack , to go to the country for a few days . 
And then to oppose him downright -- he could not but think on the way his poor mother was removed -- Would to Heaven he was yoked to some tight piece of business , no matter whether well or ill paid , but some job that would hamshackle him at least until the Courts rose , if it were but for decency 's sake . '' 
Peter Drudgeit sympathized , for Peter had a son , who , reason or none , would needs exchange the torn and inky fustian sleeves for the blue jacket and white lapelle ; and he suggested , as the reader knows , the engaging our friend Alan in the matter of Poor Peter Peebles , just opened by the desertion of young Dumtoustie , whose defection would be at the same time concealed ; and this , Drudgeit said , `` would be felling two dogs with one stone . '' 
With these explanations , the reader will hold a man of the elder Fairford 's sense and experience free from the hazardous and impatient curiosity with which boys fling a puppy into a deep pond , merely to see if the creature can swim . 
However confident in his son 's talents , which were really considerable , he would have been very sorry to have involved him in the duty of pleading a complicated and difficult case , upon his very first appearance at the bar , had he not resorted to it as an effectual way to prevent the young man from taking a step , which his habits of thinking represented as a most fatal one at his outset of life . 
Betwixt two evils , Mr Fairford chose that which was in his own apprehension the least ; and , like a brave officer sending forth his son to battle , rather chose he should die upon the breach , than desert the conflict with dishonour . 
With the assistance of a solicitor so affectionate and indefatigable , Alan Fairford was enabled , when the day of trial arrived , to walk towards the Court , attended by his anxious yet encouraging parent , with some degree of confidence that he would lose no reputation upon this arduous occasion . 
`` How is a ' wi ' you , Mr Alan -- how is a ' wi ' you , man ? 
But your father garr 'd me tak a wee drap ower muckle of his pint bottle the other night ; it 's no right to mix brandy wi ' business , Mr Fairford . 
Old Fairford shrugged his shoulders and hurried past the client , saw his son wrapt in the sable bombazine , which , in his eyes , was more venerable than an archbishop 's lawn , and could not help fondly patting his shoulder , and whispering to him to take courage , and show he was worthy to wear it . 
The earlier part of the morning was spent by old Fairford in reiterating his instructions to Alan , and in running from one person to another , from whom he thought he could still glean some grains of information , either concerning the point at issue , or collateral cases . 
These demonstrations , and the obvious shame and embarrassment of Alan Fairford , did not escape the observation of the juvenile idlers in the hall . 
They did not , indeed , approach Peter with their usual familiarity , from some feeling of deference towards Fairford , though many accused him of conceit in presuming to undertake at this early stage of his practice a case of considerable difficulty . 
But Alan , notwithstanding this forbearance , was not the less sensible that he and his companion were the subjects of many a passing jest , and many a shout of laughter , with which that region at all times abounds . 
At length the young counsel 's patience gave way , and as it threatened to carry his presence of mind and recollection along with it , Alan frankly told his father , that unless he was relieved from the infliction of his client 's personal presence and instructions , he must necessarily throw up his brief , and decline pleading the case . 
`` Hush , hush , my dear Alan , '' said the old gentleman , almost at his own wit 's end upon hearing this dilemma ; `` dinna mind the silly ne'er - do-weel ; we can not keep the man from hearing his own cause , though he be not quite right in the head . '' 
`` On my life , sir , '' answered Alan , `` I shall be unable to go on , he drives every thing out of my remembrance ; and if I attempt to speak seriously of the injuries he has sustained , and the condition he is reduced to , how can I expect but that the very appearance of such an absurd scarecrow will turn it all into ridicule ? '' 
-- Stay , ay -- Alan , my darling , hae patience ; I 'll get him off on the instant , like a gowff ba ' . '' 
Relieved from his tormentor , Alan Fairford had time to rally his recollections , which , in the irritation of his spirits , had nearly escaped him , and to prepare himself for a task , the successful discharge or failure in which must , he was aware , have the deepest influence upon his fortunes . 
He had pride , was not without a consciousness of talent , and the sense of his father 's feelings upon the subject impelled him to the utmost exertion . 
Above all , he had that sort of self-command which is essential to success in every arduous undertaking , and he was constitutionally free from that feverish irritability , by which those whose over-active imaginations exaggerate difficulties , render themselves incapable of encountering such when they arrive . 
Having collected all the scattered and broken association which were necessary , Alan 's thoughts reverted to Dumfries-shire , and the precarious situation in which he feared his beloved friend had placed himself ; and once and again he consulted his watch , eager to have his present task commenced and ended , that he might hasten to Darsie 's assistance . 
The Macer shouted , with all his well-remembered brazen strength of lungs , `` Poor Peter Peebles versus Plainstanes , per Dumtoustie et Tough : -- Maister Da-a-niel Dumtoustie ! '' 
Dumtoustie answered not the summons , which , deep and swelling as it was , could not reach across the Queensferry ; but our Maister Alan Fairford appeared in his place . 
The Judges looked with a very favourable countenance on our friend Alan , most of them being acquainted , more or less , with so old a practitioner as his father , and all , or almost all , affording , from civility , the same fair play to the first pleading of a counsel , which the House of Commons yields to the maiden speech of one of its members . 
He scowled upon Alan from beneath his large , shaggy , grey eyebrows , just as if the young lawyer had been usurping his nephew 's honours , instead of covering his disgrace ; and , from feelings which did his lordship little honour , he privately hoped the young man would not succeed in the cause which his kinsman had abandoned . 
Even Lord Bladderskate , however , was , in spite of himself , pleased with the judicious and modest tone in which Alan began his address to the Court , apologizing for his own presumption , and excusing it by the sudden illness of his learned brother , for whom the labour of opening a cause of some difficulty and importance had been much more worthily designed . 
He spoke of himself as he really was , and of young Dumtoustie as what he ought to have been , taking care not to dwell on either topic a moment longer than was necessary . 
Developed of the cumbrous and complicated technicalities of litigation , with which the perverse obstinacy of the client , the inconsiderate haste or ignorance of his agents , and the evasions of a subtle adversary , had invested the process , the cause of Poor Peter Peebles , standing upon its simple merits , was no bad subject for the declamation of a young counsel , nor did our friend Alan fail to avail himself of its strong points . 
He exhibited his client as a simple-hearted , honest , well-meaning man , who , during a copartnership of twelve years , had gradually become impoverished , while his partner , -LRB- his former clerk , -RRB- having no funds but his share of the same business , into which he had been admitted without any advance of stock , had become gradually more and more wealthy . 
`` Their association , '' said Alan , and the little flight was received with some applause , `` resembled the ancient story of the fruit which was carved with a knife poisoned on one side of the blade only , so that the individual to whom the envenomed portion was served , drew decay and death from what afforded savour and sustenance to the consumer of the other moiety . '' 
He then plunged boldly into the mare magnum of accompts between the parties ; he pursued each false statement from the waste-book to the day-book , from the day-book to the bill-book , from the bill-book to the ledger ; placed the artful interpolations and insertions of the fallacious Plainstanes in array against each other , and against the fact ; and , availing himself to the utmost of his father 's previous labours , and his own knowledge of accompts , in which he had been sedulously trained , he laid before the Court a clear and intelligible statement of the affairs of the copartnery , showing , with precision , that a large balance must , at the dissolution , have been due to his client , sufficient to have enabled him to have carried on business on his own account , and thus to have retained his situation in society , as an independent and industrious tradesman . 
The force of this appeal to feeling made as much impression on the Bench , as had been previously effected by the clearness of Alan 's argument . 
Many a hand of gratulation was thrust out to his grasp , trembling as it was with anxiety , and finally with delight ; his voice faltering , as he replied , `` Ay , ay , I kend Alan was the lad to make a spoon or spoil a horn . '' 
The counsel on the other side arose , an old practitioner , who had noted too closely the impression made by Alan 's pleading , not to fear the consequences of an immediate decision . 
He paid the highest compliments to his very young brother -- `` the Benjamin , as he would presume to call him , of the learned Faculty -- said the alleged hardships of Mr Peebles were compensated , by his being placed in a situation where the benevolence of their Lordships had assigned him gratuitously such assistance as he might not otherwise have obtained at a high price -- and allowed his young brother had put many things in such a new point of view , that , although he was quite certain of his ability to refute them , he was honestly desirous of having a few hours to arrange his answer , in order to be able to follow Mr Fairford from point to point . 
Alan modestly apologized for what in fact had been an omission very pardonable in so complicated a case , and professed himself instantly ready to go through that correspondence , and prove that it was in form and substance exactly applicable to the view of the case he had submitted to their lordships . 
He applied to his father , who sat behind him , to hand him , from time to time , the letters , in the order in which he meant to read and comment upon them . 
If so , he seemed likely to be disappointed ; for Alan was well prepared on this , as on other parts of the cause , and recommenced his pleading with a degree of animation and spirit , which added force even to what he had formerly stated , and might perhaps have occasioned the old gentleman to regret his having again called him up ; when his father , as he handed him the letters , put one into his hand which produced a singular effect on the pleader . 
The elder Mr Fairford , who remained seated , and looking as senseless as if he had been made of stone , was at length recalled to himself by the anxious enquiries of the judges and the counsel after his son 's health . 
He then rose with an air , in which was mingled the deep habitual reverence in which he held the Court , with some internal cause of agitation , and with difficulty mentioned something of a mistake -- a piece of bad news -- Alan , he hoped , would be well enough to-morrow . 
But unable to proceed farther , he clasped his hands together , exclaiming , `` My son ! 
and left the court hastily , as if in pursuit of him . 
The Court then arose , and the audience departed , greatly wondering at the talent displayed by Alan Fairford , at his first appearance , in a case so difficult and so complicated , and assigning an hundred conjectural causes , each different from the others , for the singular interruption which had clouded his day of success . 
The worst of the whole was , that six agents , who had each come to the separate resolution of thrusting a retaining fee into Alan 's hand as he left the court , shook their heads as they returned the money into their leathern pouches , and said , `` that the lad was clever , but they would like to see more of him before they engaged him in the way of business -- they did not like his lowping away like a flea in a blanket . '' 
His son had risen ten degrees higher in his estimation than ever , by his display of juridical talents , which seemed to assure him that the applause of the judges and professors of the law , which , in his estimation , was worth that of all mankind besides , authorized to the fullest extent the advantageous estimate which even his parental partiality had been induced to form of Alan 's powers . 
On the other hand , he felt that he was himself a little humbled , from a disguise which he had practised towards this son of his hopes and wishes . 
The truth was , that on the morning of this eventful day , Mr Alexander Fairford had received from his correspondent and friend , Provost Crosbie of Dumfries , a letter of the following tenor : -- `` Dear Sir , `` Your respected favour of 25th ultimo , per favour of Mr Darsie Latimer , reached me in safety , and I showed to the young gentleman such attentions as he was pleased to accept of . 
When Mr Fairford received this letter , and had read it to an end , his first idea was to communicate it to his son , that an express might be instantly dispatched , or a King 's messenger sent with proper authority to search after his late guest . 
On this account Mr Fairford was naturally led to feel anxiety concerning the fate of his late inmate ; and , at a less interesting moment , would certainly have set out himself , or licensed his son to go in pursuit of his friend . 
The mutual and enthusiastical affection betwixt the young men was well known to him ; and he concluded , that if the precarious state of Latimer were made known to Alan Fairford , it would render him not only unwilling , but totally unfit , to discharge the duty of the day , to which the old gentleman attached such ideas of importance . 
Mr Fairford was compelled to return home with this intelligence ; and on enquiring at James Wilkinson where his son was , received for answer , that `` Maister Alan was in his own room , and very busy . '' 
As Mr Fairford looked around in alarm , his eye was arrested by a sealed letter lying upon his son 's writing-table , and addressed to himself . 
I remain , till death , your dutiful and affectionate son , `` Alan Fairford . 
His first idea was to get a postchaise and pursue the fugitive ; but he recollected , that , upon the very rare occasions when Alan had shown himself indocile to the patria potestas , his natural ease and gentleness of disposition seemed hardened into obstinacy , and that now , entitled , as arrived at the years of majority , and a member of the learned Faculty , to direct his own motions , there was great doubt , whether , in the event of his overtaking his son , he might be able to prevail upon him to return back . 
I wish Darsie no worse ill than that he were carried where the silly fool Alan should never see him again . 
It was an ill hour that he darkened my doors in , for , ever since that , Alan has given up his ain old-fashioned mother-wit , for the t ` other 's capernoited maggots and nonsense . 
`` A message , sir , '' said James Wilkinson , `` from my Lord President ; and he hopes Mr Alan is not seriously indisposed . '' 
`` Lord Bladderskate 's lad is come to ask how Mr Alan is , as he left the Court '' -- `` Ay , ay , ay , '' answered Saunders , bitterly ; `` he has e ` en made a moonlight flitting , like my lord 's ain nevoy . '' 
`` Lord -- sends his servitor to ask after Mr Alan . '' 
`` Set him down to drink too -- I will write to his lordship . '' 
He answered the fresh summons accordingly , and came back to inform Mr Fairford , that the Dean of Faculty was below , enquiring for Mr Alan . 
-- `` Will I set him down to drink , too ? '' 
said Mr Fairford , `` Show Mr Dean into the parlour . '' 
Without compliment , Mr Fairford , it was as fine a first appearance as I ever heard . 
Mr Saunders Fairford made a bitter grimace as he acquiesced in an opinion which was indeed decidedly his own ; but he thought it most prudent to reply , `` that the affair which rendered his son Alan 's presence in the country absolutely necessary , regarded the affairs of a young gentleman of great fortune , who was a particular friend of Alan 's , and who never took any material step in his affairs , without consulting his counsel learned in the law . '' 
`` Well , well , Mr Fairford , you know best , '' answered the learned Dean ; `` if there be death or marriage in the case , a will or a wedding is to be preferred to all other business . 
I am happy Mr Alan is so much recovered as to be able for travel , and wish you a very good morning . '' 
Having thus taken his ground to the Dean of Faculty , Mr Fairford hastily wrote cards in answer to the enquiry of the three judges , accounting for Alan 's absence in the same manner . 
These , being properly sealed and addressed , he delivered to James , with directions to dismiss the parti-coloured gentry , who , in the meanwhile , had consumed a gallon of twopenny ale , while discussing points of law , and addressing each other by their masters ' titles.The Scottish Judges are distinguished by the title of lord prefixed to their own temporal designation . 
He endeavoured to lay the same unction to his own heart ; but here the application was less fortunate , for his conscience told him , that no end , however important , which could be achieved in Darsie Latimer 's affairs , could be balanced against the reputation which Alan was like to forfeit , by deserting the cause of Poor Peter Peebles . 
In the meanwhile , although the haze which surrounded the cause , or causes , of that unfortunate litigant had been for a time dispelled by Alan 's eloquence , like a fog by the thunder of artillery , yet it seemed once more to settle down upon the mass of litigation , thick as the palpable darkness of Egypt , at the very sound of Mr Tough 's voice , who on the second day after Alan 's departure , was heard in answer to the opening counsel . 
Deep-mouthed , long-breathed , and pertinacious , taking a pinch of snuff betwixt every sentence , which otherwise seemed interminable -- the veteran pleader prosed over all the themes which had been treated so luminously by Fairford ; he quietly and imperceptibly replaced all the rubbish which the other had cleared away ; and succeeded in restoring the veil of obscurity and unintelligibility which had for many years darkened the case of Peebles against Plainstanes ; and the matter was once more hung up by a remit to an accountant , with instruction to report before answer . 
So different a result from that which the public had been led to expect from Alan 's speech , gave rise to various speculations . 
Secondly , by the flight and voluntary desertion of the younger Fairford , the advocate ; on account of which he served both father and son with a petition and complaint against them , for malversation in office . 
So that the apparent and most probable issue of this cause seemed to menace the melancholy Mr Saunders Fairford with additional subject for plague and mortification ; which was the more galling , as his conscience told him that the case was really given away , and that a very brief resumption of the former argument , with reference to the necessary authorities and points of evidence , would have enabled Alan , by the mere breath , as it were , of his mouth , to blow away the various cobwebs with which Mr Tough had again invested the proceedings . 
In the meantime , nearly a week passed over without Mr Fairford hearing a word directly from his son . 
Or , if the person obtaining these letters shall want courage or means to effect the writer 's release , he is , in that case , conjured , by every duty of a man to his fellow-mortals , and of a Christian towards one who professes the same holy faith , to take the earliest measures for conveying them with speed and safety to the hands of Alan Fairford , Esq. , Advocate , residing in the family of his father , Alexander Fairford , Esq. , Writer to the Signet , Brown 's Square , Edinburgh . 
Undeterred , therefore , by the probability that my papers may be torn from me , and subjected to the inspection of one in particular , who , causelessly my enemy already , may be yet farther incensed at me for recording the history of my wrongs , I proceed to resume the history of events which have befallen me since the conclusion of my last letter to my dear Alan Fairford , dated , if I mistake not , on the 5th day of this still current month of August . 
I spent the earlier part of the forenoon in writing a letter which I have already mentioned , to you , my dear Alan , and which , I think , you must have received in safety . 
The rage of narration , my dear Alan -- for I will never relinquish the hope that what I am writing may one day reach your hands -- has not forsaken me even in my confinement , and the extensive though unimportant details into which I have been hurried , render it necessary that I commence another sheet . 
Thou , my dear Alan , canst not but remember the former circumstances ; and now , wonderful contrast ! 
Alan Fairford will understand me when I say , I am convinced I saw G. M. during this interval of oblivion . 
Thou , my Alan , wilt treat as timidity this passive acquiescence , which has sunk down on me like a benumbing torpor ; but if thou hast remembered by what visions my couch was haunted , and dost but think of the probability that I am in the vicinity , perhaps under the same roof with G. M. , thou wilt acknowledge that other feelings than pusillanimity have tended in some degree to reconcile me to my fate . 
I had reason , too , to believe -LSB- this to thee , Alan -RSB- that all his family did not approve of the violence of his conduct towards me ; my object , in fine , was freedom , and who would not sacrifice much to attain it ? 
He could be at no great distance , for in the course of twenty-four hours I received an answer . 
Notwithstanding all this , Alan , it might be dooted , as our old Professor used to say , whether the Justice was any thing more than an ass . 
This moderation , Alan , thou wilt comprehend , was not entirely dictated by my feelings towards the individual of whom I complained ; there were other reasons , in which regard for him had little share . 
But I have already written as much as fills a sheet of my paper , and my singular embarrassments press so hard on me , that I have matter to fill another from what followed the intrusion of -- my dear Alan -- your crazy client -- Poor Peter Peebles ! 
I have also -- Alan , I have hopes , arising out of the family of the oppressor himself . 
He was e ` en as we have seen him of yore , Alan , when , rather to keep thee company than to follow my own bent , I formerly frequented the halls of justice . 
The only addition to his dress , in the capacity of a traveller , was a pair of boots , that seemed as if they might have seen the field of Sheriffmoor ; so large and heavy , that , tied as they were to the creature 's wearied hams with large bunches of worsted tape of various colours , they looked as if he had been dragging them along , either for a wager , or by way of penance . 
Regardless of the surprised looks of the party on whom he thus intruded himself , Peter blundered into the middle of the apartment , with his head charged like a ram 's in the act of butting , and saluted them thus : -- `` Gude day to ye , gude day to your honours -- Is ' t here they sell the fugie warrants ? '' 
How did my heart throb at this information , dearest Alan ! 
Thou art near me then , and I well know with what kind purpose ; thou hast abandoned all to fly to my assistance ; and no wonder that , knowing thy friendship and faith , thy sound sagacity and persevering disposition , `` my bosom 's lord should now sit lightly on his throne ; '' that gaiety should almost involuntarily hover on my pen ; and that my heart should beat like that of a general , responsive to the drums of his advancing ally , without whose help the battle must have been lost . 
where that ill-deedy hempy is , ye are sure that Alan Fairford is not far off . 
-- Haud him fast , Master Constable ; I charge ye wi ' him , for I am mista'en if he is not at the bottom of this rinaway business . 
He was aye getting the silly callant Alan awa wi ' gigs , and horse , and the like of that , to Roslin , and Prestonpans , and a ' the idle gates he could think of . 
He 's a rinaway apprentice , that ane . '' 
Alan , I could not bear this , but answered indignantly , that he knew not the worth and honour from which he was detracting . 
`` I know as much of these Fairfords as I do of you , '' he replied . 
he exclaimed , and turned on me an inquisitive look . 
I was in hopes to persuade Mr Fairford to have entered into my views ; but I found him too much prejudiced to permit me to trust him . 
`` You said to the elder Mr Fairford , '' continued I , with the same boldness , which I began to find was my best game , `` that I was the son of Ralph Latimer of Langcote-Hall ? 
There were letters from my dear Alan Fairford , giving a ludicrous account of my instability of temper , in the same pocketbook , which , according to the admission of my pretended guardian , fell under the investigation of his domestic , during the night I passed at Brokenburn , where , as I now recollect , my wet clothes , with the contents of my pockets , were , with the thoughtlessness of a young traveller , committed too rashly to the care of a strange servant . 
And my kind friend and hospitable landlord , Mr Alexander Fairford , may also , and with justice , have spoken of my levities to this man . 
But , besides the small characters in which my residence in Mr Fairford 's house enabled me to excel , for the purpose of transferring as many scroll sheets as possible to a huge sheet of stamped paper , I have , as I have elsewhere intimated , had hitherto the comfortable reflection , that if the record of my misfortunes should fall into the hands of him by whom they are caused , they would , without harming any one , show him the real character and disposition of the person who has become his prisoner -- perhaps his victim . 
There is another quarter from which I look for succour , and which I have indicated to thee , Alan , in more than one passage of my Journal . 
-LSB- To carry on the story from the documents before us , we think it proper here to drop the Journal of the captive Darsie Latimer , and adopt , instead , a narrative of the proceedings of Alan Fairford in pursuit of his friend , which forms another series in this history . -RSB- 
The reader ought , by this time , to have formed some idea of the character of Alan Fairford . 
But Alan doted on his friend Darsie , even more than he loved his profession , and , as we have seen , threw every thing aside when he thought Latimer in danger ; forgetting fame and fortune , and hazarding even the serious displeasure of his father , to rescue him whom he loved with an elder brother 's affection . 
Darsie , though his parts were more quick and brilliant than those of his friend , seemed always to the latter a being under his peculiar charge , whom he was called upon to cherish and protect , in cases where the youth 's own experience was unequal to the exigency ; and now , when the fate of Latimer seemed worse than doubtful , and Alan 's whole prudence and energy were to be exerted in his behalf , an adventure which might have seemed perilous to most youths of his age , had no terrors for him . 
He was well acquainted with the laws of his country , and knew how to appeal to them ; and , besides his professional confidence , his natural disposition was steady , sedate , persevering , and undaunted . 
With these requisites he undertook a quest which , at that time , was not unattended with actual danger , and had much in it to appal a more timid disposition . 
Fairford 's first enquiry concerning his friend was of the chief magistrate of Dumfries , Provost Crosbie , who had sent the information of Darsie 's disappearance . 
`` But this is not all , Provost Crosbie , '' said Mr Alan Fairford ; `` a young gentleman of rank and fortune has disappeared amongst their hands -- you know him . 
`` I hope so too , '' said Alan , rather indignantly ; `` but I desire more certainty on that point . 
`` Not unless he is under restraint , '' said Fairford , surprised at the coolness with which the Provost seemed to take up the matter . 
`` I will rely on no such thing , '' said Alan ; `` if there is law or justice in Scotland , I will have the thing cleared to the very bottom . '' 
`` Why , in that case , '' said young Fairford , `` there are ill-natured people might doubt your attachment to the Protestant line , Mr Crosbie . '' 
`` God forbid , Mr Fairford ! 
I am blithe to see your father 's son on the causeway of our ancient burgh , Mr Alan Fairford . 
Alan Fairford resolved that his friend 's hospitality should not , as it seemed the inviter intended , put a stop to his queries . 
`` I must delay you for a moment , '' he said , `` Mr Crosbie ; this is a serious affair ; a young gentleman of high hopes , my own dearest friend , is missing -- you can not think it will be passed over slightly , if a man of your high character and known zeal for the government , do not make some active enquiry . 
The withers of the Provost were not unwrung ; he paced the room in much tribulation , repeating , `` But what can I do , Mr Fairford ? 
`` There are persons apprehended , and in the jail of the town , as I understand from the Sheriff - Substitute , '' said Mr Fairford ; `` you must call them before you , and enquire what they know of this young gentleman . '' 
`` Ay , ay -- the Sheriff-Depute did commit some poor creatures , I believe -- wretched , ignorant fishermen bodies , that had been quarrelling with Quaker Geddes and his stake-nets , whilk , under favour of your gown be it spoken , Mr Fairford , are not over and above lawful , and the Town-Clerk thinks they may be lawfully removed via facti -- but that is by the by . 
`` Stop a moment , Provost , '' said Alan ; `` I lodge a complaint before you , as a magistrate , and you will find it serious to slight it over . 
He kept his eye on the Provost as he uttered the name , which he did rather at a venture , and from the connexion which that gentleman , and his real or supposed niece , seemed to have with the fate of Darsie Latimer , than from any distinct cause of suspicion which he entertained . 
said Mr Crosbie ; `` I have you now , Mr Alan . 
Fairford was too wary to testify any surprise at this identification of names , however unexpected . 
`` He was attainted , I understand ; and has no remission , '' said Fairford . 
But he has been long connived at -- the story is an old story -- and the gentleman has many excellent qualities , and is of a very ancient and honourable house -- has cousins among the great folk -- counts kin with the Advocate and with the Sheriff -- hawks , you know , Mr Alan , will not pike out hawks ' een -- he is widely connected -- mywife is a fourth cousin of Redgauntlet 's . '' 
thought Alan Fairford to himself ; but the hint presently determined him to proceed by soft means , and with caution . 
`` I beg you to understand , '' said Fairford , `` that in the investigation which I am about to make , I design no harm to Mr Herries , or Redgauntlet -- call him what you will . 
`` Well , then , '' continued Fairford , `` is it not possible that , in the mistaken belief that Mr Latimer was a spy , he may , upon such suspicion , have caused him to be carried off and confined somewhere ? 
`` Mr Fairford , '' said the Provost , very earnestly , `` I scarce think such a mistake possible ; or if , by any extraordinary chance , it should have taken place , Redgauntlet , whom I can not but know well , being , as I have said , my wife 's first cousin , -LRB- fourth cousin , I should say , -RRB- is altogether incapable of doing any thing harsh to the young gentleman -- he might send him ower to Ailsay for a night or two , or maybe land him on the north coast of Ireland , or in Islay , or some of the Hebrides ; but depend upon it , he is incapable of harming a hair of his head . '' 
`` I am determined not to trust to that , Provost , '' answered Fairford , firmly ; `` and I am a good deal surprised at your way of talking so lightly of such an aggression on the liberty of the subject . 
`` Neither do I mean it , '' answered Alan , `` provided that unfortunate gentleman and his friends give me a quiet opportunity of securing my friend 's safety . 
You must think , Mr Alan Fairford , though Redgauntlet be my wife 's near relative , and though , doubtless , I wish him weel , yet I am not the person who is like to be intrusted with his incomings and outgoings . 
I am not a man for that -- I keep the kirk , and I abhor Popery -- I have stood up for the House of Hanover , and for liberty and property -- I carried arms , sir , against the Pretender , when three of the Highlandmen 's baggagecarts were stopped at Ecclefechan ; and I had an especial loss of a hundred pounds '' -- `` Scots , '' interrupted Fairford . 
said Alan Fairford . 
`` Granted again , '' said Fairford . 
said Fairford . 
But though he is a windy body when he gets on his auld-warld stories , he has mair gumption in him than most people -- knows business , Mr Alan , being bred to the law ; but never took the gown , because of the oaths , which kept more folk out then than they do now -- the more 's the pity . '' 
said Fairford . 
I have a son breeding to the bar , Mr Fairford ; and , no doubt , considering my services and sufferings , I might have looked for some bit postie to him ; but if the muckle tikes come in -- I mean a ' these Maxwells , and Johnstones , and great lairds , that the oaths used to keep out lang syne -- the bits o ' messan dogies , like my son , and maybe like your father 's son , Mr Alan will be sair put to the wall . '' 
`` But to return to the subject , Mr Crosbie , '' said Fairford , `` do you really think it likely that this Mr Maxwell will be of service in this matter ? '' 
repeated Alan ; `` a very singular name . '' 
The Provost , repeating his expectation of seeing Mr Fairford at two o'clock , at length effected his escape from the young counsellor , and left him at a considerable loss how to proceed . 
Alan expressed to that officer a purpose of visiting Brokenburn , but was assured by him , that it would be a step attended with much danger to his own person , and altogether fruitless ; that the individuals who had been ringleaders in the riot were long since safely sheltered in their various lurking-holes in the Isle of Man , Cumberland , and elsewhere ; and that those who might remain would undoubtedly commit violence on any who visited their settlement with the purpose of enquiring into the late disturbances . 
It was impossible it could be merely owing to Redgauntlet 's mistaking Darsie for a spy ; for though that was the solution which Fairford had offered to the Provost , he well knew that , in point of fact , he himself had been warned by his singular visitor of some danger to which his friend was exposed , before such suspicion could have been entertained ; and the injunctions received by Latimer from his guardian , or him who acted as such , Mr Griffiths of London , pointed to the same thing . 
When Alan Fairford arrived at Mount Sharon , Rachel Geddes hastened to meet him , almost before the servant could open the door . 
said Fairford , much disappointed in his turn . 
`` I am , '' said Fairford , hastily , `` the particular friend of a young man not unknown to you , Miss Geddes -- the friend of Darsie Latimer -- and am come hither in the utmost anxiety , having understood from Provost Crosbie , that he had disappeared in the night when a destructive attack was made upon the fishing-station of Mr Geddes . '' 
This was all that Fairford could learn from Miss Geddes ; but he heard with pleasure , that the good Quaker , her brother , had many friends among those of his own profession in Cumberland , and without exposing himself to so much danger as his sister seemed to apprehend , he trusted he might be able to discover some traces of Darsie Latimer . 
On Fairford 's return to Dumfries , he employed the brief interval which remained before dinnertime , in writing an account of what had befallen Latimer , and of the present uncertainty of his condition , to Mr Samuel Griffiths , through whose hands the remittances for his friend 's service had been regularly made , desiring he would instantly acquaint him with such parts of his history as might direct him in the search which he was about to institute through the border counties , and which he pledged himself not to give up until he had obtained news of his friend , alive or dead . 
Still , recalling his language , so strikingly that of the gentleman , and even of the man of honour , Alan Fairford concluded , that though , in his feudal pride , Redgauntlet might venture on the deeds of violence exercised by the aristocracy in other times , he could not be capable of any action of deliberate atrocity . 
Five minutes had elapsed after the town-clock struck two , before Alan Fairford , who had made a small detour to put his letter into the post-house , reached the mansion of Mr Provost Crosbie , and was at once greeted by the voice of that civic dignitary , and the rural dignitary his visitor , as by the voices of men impatient for their dinner . 
`` Come away , Mr Fairford -- the Edinburgh time is later than ours , '' said the Provost . 
`` Not quite so degenerate , '' replied Fairford ; `` but certainly many Edinburgh people are so ill-advised as to postpone their dinner till three , that they may have full time to answer their London correspondents . '' 
`` The tradesmen must have their goods , '' said Fairford . 
`` Then the ladies must have fashions , '' said Fairford . 
`` There is no want of crowding , however , sir , '' said Fairford ; `` they begin to talk of a new Assembly-Room . '' 
This stately dame received Mr Maxwell -LRB- a cousin of course -RRB- with cordiality , and Fairford with civility ; answering , at the same time , with respect , to the magisterial complaints of the Provost , that dinner was just coming up . 
Alan Fairford alone was unmoved among all this mirth ; which was the less wonderful , that , besides the important subject which occupied his thoughts , most of the Laird 's good things consisted in sly allusions to little parochial or family incidents , with which the Edinburgh visitor was totally unacquainted ; so that the laughter of the party sounded in his ear like the idle crackling of thorns under the pot , with this difference , that they did not accompany or second any such useful operation as the boiling thereof . 
Fairford was glad when the cloth was withdrawn ; and when Provost Crosbie -LRB- not without some points of advice from his lady , touching the precise mixture of the ingredients -RRB- had accomplished the compounding of a noble bowl of punch , at which the old Jacobite 's eyes seemed to glisten , the glasses were pushed round it , filled , and withdrawn each by its owner , when the Provost emphatically named the toast , `` The King , '' with an important look to Fairford , which seemed to say , You can have no doubt whom I mean , and therefore there is no occasion to particularize the individual . 
Summertrees repeated the toast with a sly wink to the lady , while Fairford drank his glass in silence . 
`` At least , sir , '' replied Mr Fairford , `` I am so much of a lawyer as not willingly to enter into disputes which I am not retained to support -- it would be but throwing away both time and argument . '' 
Fairford now thought it civil to say , `` that he had often heard of Mr Maxwell 's wonderful escape , and that nothing could be more agreeable to him than to hear the right version of it . '' 
`` Not so often as to think it tiresome , I assure ye , '' said the lady ; and without further preliminaries , the Laird addressed Alan Fairford . 
`` I suppose the young lawyer thinks it all very right , '' said Summertrees , looking at Fairford -- `` an old lawyer might have thought otherwise . 
said Alan Fairford , for whom the tale began to have some interest . 
Fairford intimated his ignorance . 
`` A bad pass indeed , '' said Alan . 
said Alan Fairford . 
said Alan . 
-- Well , we may have our day next -- what is fristed is not forgiven -- they think us all dead and buried -- but '' -- Here he filled his glass , and muttering some indistinct denunciations , drank it off , and assumed his usual manner , which had been a little disturbed towards the end of the narrative . 
said Fairford . 
said Alan Fairford . 
Alan Fairford was not sorry for the lady 's departure . 
Alan soon saw that the investigation he meditated must advance , if at all , on his own special motion , and determined to proceed accordingly . 
Acting upon this resolution , he took the first opportunity afforded by a pause in the discussion of colonial politics , to say , `` I must remind you , Provost Crosbie , of your kind promise to procure some intelligence upon the subject I am so anxious about . '' 
`` Well , sir , '' said Alan , `` that is not the present point . 
Now , our friend , the Provost , thinks that you may be able to advise '' -- Here he was interrupted by the Provost and Summertrees speaking out both at once , the first endeavouring to disclaim all interest in the question , and the last to evade giving an answer . 
said the Provost ; `` I never thought twice about it , Mr Fairford ; it was neither fish , nor flesh , nor salt herring of mine . '' 
`` With your pardon , '' said Alan , calmly , but resolutely , `` I must ask a more serious answer . '' 
`` I will explain , '' said Alan , determined to give Mr Maxwell no opportunity of breaking off the conversation . 
`` You know Mr Herries of Birrenswork , '' said Alan , smiling , `` to whom the name of Redgauntlet belongs ? '' 
`` You must not be angry , Mr Fairford , that the poor persecuted nonjurors are a little upon the qui vive when such clever young men as you are making enquiries after us . 
`` On the contrary , sir , '' said Fairford , `` I wish to afford Mr Redgauntlet 's friends an opportunity to get him out of the scrape , by procuring the instant liberation of my friend Darsie Latimer . 
Fairford rose and walked about the room , to allow them an opportunity of conversing together ; for he was in hopes that the impression he had visibly made upon Summertrees was likely to ripen into something favourable to his purpose . 
Some broken words of the conversation reached Fairford , whose presence they seemed to forget , as he stood at the bottom of the room , apparently intent upon examining the figures upon a fine Indian screen , a present to the Provost from his brother , captain of a vessel in the Company 's service . 
`` Come , sit down to your glass , Mr Fairford ; we have laid our heads thegither , and you shall see it will not be our fault if you are not quite pleased , and Mr Darsie Latimer let loose to take his fiddle under his neck again . 
`` Gentlemen , '' said Fairford , `` I will not certainly shun any risk by which my object may be accomplished ; but I bind it on your consciences -- on yours , Mr Maxwell , as a man of honour and a gentleman ; and on yours , Provost , as a magistrate and a loyal subject , that you do not mislead me in this matter . '' 
`` I will warrant myself from such , '' said Fairford , `` by carrying a proper force with me . '' 
Fairford mused for a moment . 
`` I will take it as it is given , '' said Alan Fairford . 
-- I will not go my foot 's length , '' said the Provost ; `` and that , Mr Alan , you may be well assured of . 
And as for myself , Mr Fairford , I can not go , for just the opposite reason . 
`` Mr Fairford , '' said he , `` you are a good lad ; and , what is more , you are my auld friend your father 's son . 
I am but a plain man , Mr Fairford ; but I hope you understand me ? '' 
`` I believe you mean me well , Provost ; and I am sure , '' replied Fairford , `` you can never better show your kindness than on this occasion . '' 
`` That 's it -- that 's the very point I would be at , Mr Alan , '' replied the Provost ; `` besides , I am , as becomes well my situation , a stanch friend to Kirk and King , meaning this present establishment in church and state ; and so , as I was saying , you may command my best -- advice . '' 
I have friends and connexions among them , Mr Fairford , as your father may have clients -- they are flesh and blood like ourselves , these poor Jacobite bodies -- sons of Adam and Eve , after all ; and therefore -- I hope you understand me ? 
`` I am afraid I do not quite understand you , '' said Fairford ; `` and if you have any thing to say to me in private , my dear Provost , you had better come quickly out with it , for the Laird of Summertrees must finish his letter in a minute or two . '' 
`` But your advice , Provost , '' said Alan , who perceived that , like a shy horse , the worthy magistrate always started off from his own purpose just when he seemed approaching to it . 
-- `` I understand you , I think , '' said Alan Fairford . 
-- I think nothing about it , Mr Alan ; but if he were , as I trust he is not , he is nae drap 's blood akin to you , Mr Alan . '' 
ejaculated the Provost , `` me , Mr Alan ? 
`` I shall leave you to stand all the shots from that battery , Provost , '' replied Fairford . 
I am a plain man , Mr Fairford -- but ye said Fairly ? '' 
`` I do so , '' replied Alan , `` and it is of importance to me to know , and to you to tell me if such is the case ; for if you do not , you may be an accomplice to murder before the fact , and that under circumstances which may bring it near to murder under trust . '' 
said the Provost ; `` no danger of that , Mr Alan -- only , if I were you -- to speak my plain mind '' -- Here he approached his mouth to the ear of the young lawyer , and , after another acute pang of travail , was safely delivered of his advice in the following abrupt words : -- `` Take a keek into Pate 's letter before ye deliver it . '' 
Fairford started , looked the Provost hard in the face , and was silent ; while Mr Crosbie , with the self-approbation of one who has at length brought himself to the discharge of a great duty , at the expense of a considerable sacrifice , nodded and winked to Alan , as if enforcing his advice ; and then swallowing a large glass of punch , concluded , with the sigh of a man released from a heavy burden , `` I am a plain man , Mr Fairford . '' 
The Provost looked silly enough , and the Laird of Summertrees directed a keen and suspicious glance upon Alan Fairford , who sustained it with professional intrepidity . 
`` And I , '' said Fairford , `` am determined to go through with it . 
`` To these I shall be resigned , '' said Fairford , `` and stand prepared to run my risk . '' 
This letter , Mr Fairford , '' putting a sealed one into his hand , `` is addressed , you observe , to Mr H -- of B -- , and contains your credentials for that gentleman , who is also known by his family name of Redgauntlet , but less frequently addressed by it , because it is mentioned something invidiously in a certain act of Parliament . 
answered Alan ; `` can you expect that I will not take the precaution of informing some person of the route I am about to take , that in case of accident it may be known where I am , and with what purpose I have gone thither ? '' 
Alan Fairford could not help thinking that this obligation to secrecy gave a new and suspicious colouring to the whole transaction ; but , considering that his friend 's release might depend upon his accepting the condition , he gave it in the terms proposed , and with the resolution of abiding by it . 
`` And now , sir , '' he said , `` whither am I to proceed with this letter ? 
`` You are a mettled young man , '' said Summertrees , evidently with increasing good-will , on observing an alertness and contempt of danger , which perhaps he did not expect from Alan 's appearance and profession , -- `` a very mettled young fellow indeed ! 
and it is almost a pity '' -- Here he stopped short . 
said Fairford . 
I say nothing to you , Mr Fairford , for you are too young a man yet for stoup and bicker ; but I hope you will not tell the Edinburgh fine folk that the Provost has scrimped you of your cogie , as the sang says ? '' 
`` I am much obliged for the Provost 's kindness , and yours , madam , '' replied Alan ; `` but the truth is , I have still a long ride before me this evening , and the sooner I am on horseback the better . '' 
`` Mr Fairford will ride as well in the cool of the evening , '' said Summertrees , taking the word out of Alan 's mouth . 
Having drank tea , Alan Fairford took leave with the usual ceremony . 
The Laird of Summertrees seemed studious to prevent any further communication between him and the Provost , and remained lounging on the landing-place of the stair while they made their adieus -- heard the Provost ask if Alan proposed a speedy return , and the latter reply , that his stay was uncertain , and witnessed the parting shake of the hand , which , with a pressure more warm than usual , and a tremulous , `` God bless and prosper you ! '' 
Maxwell even strolled with Fairford as far as the George , although resisting all his attempts at further enquiry into the affairs of Redgauntlet , and referring him to Tom Trumbull , alias Turnpenny , for the particulars which he might find it necessary to enquire into . 
At length Alan 's hack was produced ; an animal long in neck , and high in bone , accoutred with a pair of saddle-bags containing the rider 's travelling wardrobe . 
Proudly surmounting his small stock of necessaries , and no way ashamed of a mode of travelling which a modern Mr Silvertongue would consider as the last of degradations , Alan Fairford took leave of the old Jacobite , Pate-in-Peril , and set forward on the road to the royal burgh of Annan . 
Several marks of intelligence betwixt Mrs Crosbie and the Laird of Summertrees had not escaped Alan 's acute observation ; and it was plain that the Provost 's inclinations towards him , which he believed to be sincere and good , were not firm enough to withstand the influence of this league between his wife and friend . 
Laying all these matters together , Alan thought , with no little anxiety , on the celebrated lines of Shakspeare , -- `` A drop , That in the ocean seeks another drop , '' & c . 
He endeavoured to fish out from the lad that acted as a guide , something of this man 's situation and profession ; but the general expressions of `` a very decent man '' -- `` a very honest body '' -- `` weel to pass in the world , '' and such like , were all that could be extracted from him ; and while Fairford was following up the investigation with closer interrogatories , the lad put an end to them by knocking at the door of Mr Trumbull , whose decent dwelling was a little distance from the town , and considerably nearer to the sea . 
When , however , Fairford repeated the summons with the end of his whip , the singing ceased , and Mr Trumbull himself , with his psalm-book in his hand , kept open by the insertion of his forefinger between the leaves , came to demand the meaning of this unseasonable interruption . 
he said to Fairford , whose guide had slunk to the rear , as if to escape the rebuke of the severe old man , -- `` We were engaged , and it is the Saturday night . '' 
Alan Fairford 's preconceptions were so much deranged by this man 's appearance and manner , that he stood for a moment bewildered , and would as soon have thought of giving a cant pass-word to a clergyman descending from the pulpit , as to the respectable father of a family just interrupted in his prayers for and with the objects of his care . 
said Fairford . 
`` Yet he directed me hither , my good friend , '' said Alan . 
`` Stay one single instant , '' said Fairford ; `` this is a matter of life and death . '' 
`` Do you know , '' said Alan Fairford , `` the Laird of Redgauntlet ? '' 
He seemed about to shut the door , but did not shut it , a circumstance which did not escape Alan 's notice . 
`` Mr Redgauntlet is sometimes , '' he said , `` called Herries of Birrenswork ; perhaps you may know him under that name . '' 
He was now about to slam the door in his visitor 's face without further ceremony , when Alan , who had observed symptoms that the name of Redgauntlet did not seem altogether so indifferent to him as he pretended , arrested his purpose by saying , in a low voice , `` At least you can tell me what age the moon is ? '' 
To this keen look of scrutiny , Fairford replied by a smile of intelligence . 
The iron muscles of the old man 's face did not , however , relax , as he dropped , in a careless manner , the countersign , `` Not light enough to land a cargo . '' 
As the light was now failing fast , the old man , with much more alertness than might have been expected from the rigidity of his figure , closed the window-shutters in an instant , produced phosphorus and matches , and lighted a stable-lantern , which he placed on the corn bin , and then addressed Fairford . 
Fairford answered in the affirmative . 
Fairford plunged after him , not without apprehensions of more kinds than one , but still resolved to prosecute the adventure . 
Here Mr Trumbull left Fairford alone , and returned for an instant , as he said , to shut his concealed trapdoor . 
Fairford liked not his departure , as it left him in utter darkness ; besides that his breathing was much affected by a strong and stifling smell of spirits , and other articles of a savour more powerful than agreeable to the lungs . 
He was very glad , therefore , when he heard the returning steps of Mr Trumbull , who , when once more by his side , opened a strong though narrow door in the wall , and conveyed Fairford into an immense magazine of spirit-casks , and other articles of contraband trade . 
So saying , he suddenly turned on Alan Fairford the light side of the lantern he carried , who , by the transient gleam which it threw in passing on the man who bore it , saw a huge figure , upwards of six feet high , with a rough hairy cap on his head , and a set of features corresponding to his bulky frame . 
Fairford now found himself called upon to say something ; yet his feelings , upon finding himself thus completely in the power of a canting hypocrite , and of his retainer , who had so much the air of a determined ruffian , joined to the strong and abominable fume which they snuffed up with indifference , while it almost deprived him of respiration , combined to render utterance difficult . 
said Fairford . 
`` Why , Master Trumbull , '' replied Job , `` you know that when we are chased , it 's no time to shorten sail , and so the boys do ride whip and spur '' -- He stopped in his speech , observing the old man had vanished through the door by which he had entered -- `` That 's always the way with old Turnpenny , '' he said to Fairford ; `` he cares for nothing of the trade but the profit -- now , d -- me , if I do n't think the fun of it is better worth while . 
Fairford followed his gruff guide among a labyrinth of barrels and puncheons , on which he had more than once like to have broken his nose , and from thence into what , by the glimpse of the passing lantern upon a desk and writing materials , seemed to be a small office for the dispatch of business . 
Here there appeared no exit ; but the smuggler , or smuggler 's ally , availing himself of a ladder , seven feet from the ground , and Fairford , still following Job , was involved in another tortuous and dark passage , which involuntarily reminded him of Peter Peebles 's lawsuit . 
At the end of this labyrinth , when he had little guess where he had been conducted , and was , according to the French phrase , totally desorienté , Job suddenly set down the lantern , and availing himself of the flame to light two candles which stood on the table , asked if Alan would choose any thing to eat , recommending , at all events , a slug of brandy to keep out the night air . 
Fairford declined both , but enquired after his baggage . 
`` The old master will take care of that himself , '' said Job Rutledge ; and drawing back in the direction in which he had entered , he vanished from the further end of the apartment , by a mode which the candles , still shedding an imperfect light , gave Alan no means of ascertaining . 
In this condition , it was Alan 's first employment to survey , with some accuracy , the place where he was ; and accordingly , having trimmed the lights , he walked slowly round the apartment , examining its appearance and dimensions . 
He found a door , which he endeavoured to open , but it was locked on the outside . 
A corresponding door on the same side of the apartment admitted him into a closet , upon the front shelves of which were punch-bowls , glasses , tea-cups , and the like , while on one side was hung a horseman 's great-coat of the coarsest materials , with two great horse-pistols peeping out of the pocket , and on the floor stood a pair of well-spattered jack-boots , the usual equipment of the time , at least for long journeys . 
Not greatly liking the contents of the closet , Alan Fairford shut the door , and resumed his scrutiny round the walls of the apartment , in order to discover the mode of Job Rutledge 's retreat . 
But Fairford was unprepared for the expensive and regular establishments by which the illicit traffic was carried on , and could not have conceived that the capital employed in it should have been adequate to the erection of these extensive buildings , with all their contrivances for secrecy of communication . 
He was musing on these circumstances , not without some anxiety for the progress of his own journey , when suddenly , as he lifted his eyes , he discovered old Mr Trumbull at the upper end of the apartment , bearing in one hand a small bundle , in the other his dark lantern , the light of which , as he advanced , he directed full upon Fairford 's countenance . 
Though such an apparition was exactly what he expected , yet he did not see the grim , stern old man present himself thus suddenly without emotion ; especially when he recollected , what to a youth of his pious education was peculiarly shocking , that the grizzled hypocrite was probably that instant arisen from his knees to Heaven , for the purpose of engaging in the mysterious transactions of a desperate and illegal trade . 
The old man , accustomed to judge with ready sharpness of the physiognomy of those with whom he had business , did not fail to remark something like agitation in Fairford 's demeanour . 
said Fairford , firmly , stimulated at once by his natural spirit , and the recollection of his friend ; `` never , while I have life and strength to follow it out ! '' 
`` I have no doubt of it , '' said Fairford . 
`` By the name of Alan Fairford , '' answered the young lawyer . 
And , besides , Mr Trumbull , '' added Alan , thinking a little raillery might intimate confidence of spirit , `` you blessed yourself , but a little while since , that you had no acquaintance with those who defiled their names so far as to be obliged to change them . '' 
`` You are witty , Mr Trumbull , '' said Fairford ; `` but jests are no arguments -- I shall keep my own name . '' 
Alan followed him , in silent abhorrence , to the recess in which the beaufet was placed , and which was so artificially made as to conceal another of those traps with which the whole building abounded . 
If Fairford 's journey had been hitherto in a stifled and subterranean atmosphere , it was now open , lofty , and airy enough ; for he had to follow his guide over leads and slates , which the old smuggler traversed with the dexterity of a cat . 
It is true his course was facilitated by knowing exactly where certain stepping-places and holdfasts were placed , of which Fairford could not so readily avail himself ; but , after a difficult and somewhat perilous progress along the roofs of two or three houses , they at length descended by a skylight into a garret room , and from thence by the stairs into a public-house ; for such it appeared by the ringing of bells , whistling for waiters and attendance , bawling of `` House , house , here ! '' 
At the same time he introduced Mr Antony or Nanty Ewart , whose person , although he was a good deal flustered with liquor , was different from what Fairford expected . 
-- I wish you joy , sir , '' bowing to Fairford . 
`` Mr Alan Fairford , '' said Trumbull . 
`` Ay , Mr Alan Fairford -- a good name for a fair trader -- Mr Alan Fairford ; and may he be long withheld from the topmost round of ambition , which I take to be the highest round of a certain ladder . '' 
When the grace was at length over , the three friends sat down to their beverage , and invited Alan Fairford to partake . 
Anxious about his situation , and disgusted as he was with his company , he craved , and with difficulty obtained permission , under the allegation of being fatigued , heated , and the like , to stretch himself on a couch which was in the apartment , and attempted at least to procure some rest before high water , when the vessel was to sail . 
He was at length permitted to use his freedom , and stretched himself on the couch , having his eyes for some time fixed on the jovial party he had left , and straining his ears to catch if possible a little of their conversation . 
This he soon found was to no purpose ; for what did actually reach his ears was disguised so completely by the use of cant words , and the thieves-Latin called slang , that even when he caught the words , he found himself as far as ever from the sense of their conversation . 
At length he fell asleep . 
It was after Alan had slumbered for three or four hours , that he was wakened by voices bidding him rise up and prepare to be jogging . 
He started up accordingly , and found himself in presence of the same party of boon companions , who had just dispatched their huge bowl of punch . 
To Alan 's surprise , the liquor had made but little innovation on the brains of men , who were accustomed to drink at all hours , and in the most inordinate quantities . 
Indeed , Fairford , had he not known how Ewart had been engaged whilst he himself was asleep , would almost have sworn when he awoke , that the man was more sober than when he first entered the room . 
All were now dismissed for the brig , which lay , as Fairford was given to understand , a little farther down the river , which is navigable for vessels of light burden , till almost within a mile of the town . 
Old Trumbull walked a little way with them , but the air had probably considerable effect on the state of his brain ; for , after reminding Alan Fairford that the next day was the honourable Sabbath , he became extremely excursive in an attempt to exhort him to keep it holy . 
At length , being perhaps sensible that he was becoming unintelligible he thrust a volume into Fairford 's hand -- hiccupping at the same time -- `` Good book -- good book -- fine hymn-book -- fit for the honourable Sabbath , whilk awaits us to-morrow morning . '' 
-- Then he recollected himself a little , and said to Alan , `` You may read that book , Mr Fairford , to-morrow , all the same , though it be Monday ; for , you see , it was Saturday when we were thegether , and now it 's Sunday , and it 's dark night -- so the Sabbath has slipped clean away through our fingers , like water through a sieve , which abideth not ; and we have to begin again to-morrow morning , in the weariful , base , mean , earthly employments , whilk are unworthy of an immortal spirit -- always excepting the way of business . '' 
Alan Fairford , for some time , availed himself of the clearness of the summer morning to gaze on the dimly seen shores betwixt which they glided , becoming less and less distinct as they receded from each other , until at length , having adjusted his little bundle by way of pillow , and wrapt around him the great-coat with which old Trumbull had equipped him , he stretched himself on the deck , to try to recover the slumber out of which he had been awakened . 
These words , and the awkward courtesy with which the skipper of the little brig tucked the seacoat round Fairford , gave him a confidence of safety which he had not yet thoroughly possessed . 
He stretched himself in more security on the hard planks , and was speedily asleep , though his slumbers were feverish and unrefreshing . 
It has been elsewhere intimated that Alan Fairford inherited from his mother a delicate constitution , with a tendency to consumption ; and , being an only child , with such a cause for apprehension , care , to the verge of effeminacy , was taken to preserve him from damp beds , wet feet , and those various emergencies , to which the Caledonian boys of much higher birth , but more active habits , are generally accustomed . 
But Fairford felt annoyed with deadly sickness , as well as by pain of a distressing and oppressive character ; and neither Criffel , rising in majesty on the one hand , nor the distant yet more picturesque outline of Skiddaw and Glaramara upon the other , could attract his attention in the manner in which it was usually fixed by beautiful scenery , and especially that which had in it something new as well as striking . 
Yet it was not in Alan Fairford 's nature to give way to despondence , even when seconded by pain . 
But what was Alan 's astonishment to read on the titlepage the following words : -- `` Merry Thoughts for Merry Men ; or , Mother Midnight 's Miscellany for the small Hours ; '' and , turning over the leaves , he was disgusted with profligate tales , and more profligate songs , ornamented with figures corresponding in infamy with the letterpress . 
he thought , `` and did this hoary reprobate summon his family together , and , with such a disgraceful pledge of infamy in his bosom , venture to approach the throne of his Creator ? 
-- Seized with the disgust with which the young and generous usually regard the vices of advanced life , Alan , having turned the leaves of the book over in hasty disdain , flung it from him , as far as he could , into the sea . 
He then had recourse to the Sallust , which he had at first sought for in vain . 
As he opened the book , Nanty Ewart , who had been looking over his shoulder , made his own opinion heard . 
`` I hope , sir , '' answered Fairford , civilly , `` you are in the habit of reading better books . '' 
`` Faith , '' answered Nanty , `` with help of a little Geneva text , I could read my Sallust as well as you can ; '' and snatching the book from Alan 's hand , he began to read , in the Scottish accent : -- ''' Igitur ex divitiis juventutem luxuria atque avaritia cum superbiâ invasêre : rapere , consumere ; sua parvi pendere , aliena cupere ; pudorem , amicitiam , pudicitiam , divina atque humana promiscua , nihil pensi neque moderati habere . 
`` Perhaps , in some respects , he may merit better usage at our hands , '' said Alan ; `` for if he has described vice plainly , it seems to have been for the purpose of rendering it generally abhorred . '' 
That is what I call plain speaking on the part of the old Roman , Mr Fairford . 
`` Lawyer as I am , '' said Fairford , `` I do not understand your innuendo . '' 
`` You are as far off as ever , '' replied Fairford . 
Fairford rejected all these friendly propositions . 
Fairford thanked him , and accepted his offer of tea . 
Alan drank it eagerly , and with so much appearance of being refreshed , that Nanty Ewart swore he would have some too , and only laced it , as his phrase went , with a single glass of brandy . 
We left Alan Fairford on the deck of the little smuggling brig , in that disconsolate situation , when sickness and nausea attack a heated and fevered frame , and an anxious mind . 
Nanty himself sat down by Fairford , helped him to his tea , with such other refreshments as he could think of , and seemed in his way sincerely desirous to make his situation as comfortable as things admitted . 
Fairford had thus an opportunity to study his countenance and manners more closely . 
`` I see you look at me hard , '' said he to Fairford . 
He opened his breast , and showed Alan a pair of pistols disposed between his waistcoat and jacket , placing his finger at the same time upon the cock of one of them . 
Fairford said , it seemed very clear indeed that Mr Ewart 's education was far superior to the line he at present occupied . 
`` I have no doubt , '' said Fairford , `` your present occupation is more lucrative ; but I should have thought the church might have been more '' -- He stopped , recollecting that it was not his business to say any thing disagreeable . 
`` And so it would , Mr Fairford -- and happier , too , by a thousand degrees -- though I have had my pleasures too . 
said Fairford . 
There was a pause -- until Fairford , pitying the poor man 's state of mind , and believing he saw something in him that , but for early error and subsequent profligacy , might have been excellent and noble , helped on the conversation by asking , in a tone of commiseration , how he had been able to endure such a load of calamity . 
Fairford , though uneasy in his mind at finding himself , a lawyer , so close to a character so lawless , thought it best , nevertheless , to put a good face on the matter , and asked Mr Ewart , with as much unconcern as he could assume , `` whether he was fortunate as a rover ? '' 
said Fairford . 
Although far from feeling well , Fairford endeavoured to rouse himself and walk to the head of the brig , to enjoy the beautiful prospect , as well as to take some note of the course which the vessel held . 
To his great surprise , instead of standing across to the opposite shore from which she had departed , the brig was going down the Frith , and apparently steering into the Irish sea . 
continued Fairford . 
Fairford could not withstand the passing impulse of terror which crossed him , when thus reminded that he was so absolutely in the power of a man , who , by his own account , had been a pirate , and who was at present , in all probability , an outlaw as well as a contraband trader . 
`` No indeed , '' said Fairford ; `` I am utterly ignorant of what you allude to . '' 
Fairford did not hesitate to gratify his wish , which , he was aware , he could not easily resist . 
The master of the Jumping Jenny looked at the direction very attentively , then turned the letter to and fro , and examined each flourish of the pen , as if he were judging of a piece of ornamented manuscript ; then handed it back to Fairford , without a single word of remark . 
Alan Fairford continued to regard him with a melancholy feeling divided betwixt the interest he took in the unhappy man , and a not unnatural apprehension for the issue of his own adventure . 
`` Perhaps , Mr Ewart , '' said Fairford , `` you live chiefly with men too deeply interested for their own immediate safety , to think much upon the distress of others ? '' 
`` I really am not in such secrets as you seem to allude to , '' said Fairford ; and , determined at the same time to avail himself as far as possible of Nanty 's communicative disposition , he added , with a smile , `` And if I were , I should not hold it prudent to make them much the subject of conversation . 
The old sailor stepped forward and flung a seacloak over the slumberer 's shoulders , and added , looking at Fairford , `` Pity of him he should have this fault ; for without it , he would have been as clever a fellow as ever trode a plank with ox leather . '' 
said Fairford . 
Fairford , unwell before , felt this destination condemned him to an agony of many hours , which his disordered stomach and aching head were ill able to endure . 
Alan Fairford 's spirit was more ready to encounter labour than his frame was adequate to support it . 
In spite of his exertions , when he awoke , after five or six hours ' slumber , he found that he was so much disabled by dizziness in his head , and pains in his limbs , that he could not raise himself without assistance . 
He heard with some pleasure that they were now running right for the Wampool river , and that he would be put on shore in a very short time . 
The vessel accordingly lay to , and presently showed a west in her ensign , which was hastily answered by signals from on shore . 
This was not done until the commercial customers had been dismissed ; and it was not until this was performed that Ewart proposed to Alan , as he lay stunned with pain and noise , to accompany him ashore . 
It was with difficulty that Fairford could get over the side of the vessel , and he could not seat himself on the stern of the boat without assistance from the captain and his people . 
said Fairford , though scarcely able to articulate the question . 
As they raised Fairford from the ground , he groaned heavily , and asked faintly where they were taking him to . 
Thus , and with much more to the same purpose , Nanty ran on , increasing , by his well-intended annoyance , the agony of Alan Fairford , who , tormented by racking pain along the back and loins , which made the rough trot of the horse torture to him , had his aching head still further rended and split by the hoarse voice of the sailor , close to his ear . 
Perfectly passive , however , he did not even essay to give any answer ; and indeed his own bodily distress was now so great and engrossing , that to think of his situation was impossible , even if he could have mended it by doing so . 
Their course was inland ; but in what direction , Alan had no means of ascertaining . 
In many places , however , it was impossible for three men to ride abreast ; and therefore the burden of supporting Alan Fairford fell alternately to old Jephson , and to Nanty ; and it was with much difficulty that they could keep him upright in his saddle . 
At length when his powers of sufferance were quite worn out , and he was about to implore them to leave him to his fate in the first cottage or shed -- or under a haystack or a hedge -- or anywhere , so he was left at ease , Collier , who rode a-head , passed back the word that they were at the avenue to Fairladies -- `` Was he to turn up ? '' 
Committing the charge of Fairford to Jephson , Nanty dashed up to the head of the troop , and gave his orders . 
The string of loaded horses then struck forward at their former pace , while Nanty , with Sam Skelton , waited by the road-side till the rear came up , when Jephson and Fairford joined them , and , to the great relief of the latter , they began to proceed at an easier pace than formerly , suffering the gang to precede them , till the clatter and clang attending their progress began to die away in the distance . 
Away ran Dick Gardener with this message ; and , in a few minutes , lights were seen to flit about , which convinced Fairford , who was now , in consequence of the halt , a little restored to self-possession , that they were traversing the front of a tolerably large mansion-house . 
-- Come , cheerly , Mr Fairford -- you will be taken good care of -- try to walk . '' 
Alan did so ; and , refreshed by his halt , declared himself able to walk to the house with the sole assistance of the gardener . 
-- `` Farewell then , Mr Fairford , and farewell , Madam Arthuret , for I have been too long here . '' 
During this dialogue between the vestals of Fairladies , Dick Gardener deposited his burden in a chair , where the young lady , after a moment of hesitation , expressing a becoming reluctance to touch the hand of a stranger , put her finger and thumb upon Fairford 's wrist , and counted his pulse . 
Under the direction , and with the assistance , of this venerable personage , the unlucky Alan Fairford was conveyed to a decent apartment at the end of a long gallery , and , to his inexpressible relief , consigned to a comfortable bed . 
He did not attempt to resist the prescription of Mr Ambrose , who not only presented him with the proposed draught , but proceeded so far as to take a considerable quantity of blood from him , by which last operation he probably did his patient much service . 
On the next morning , when Fairford awoke , after no very refreshing slumbers , in which were mingled many wild dreams of his father , and of Darsie Latimer , -- of the damsel in the green mantle , and the vestals of Fairladies , -- of drinking small beer with Nanty Ewart , and being immersed in the Solway with the Jumping Jenny , -- he found himself in no condition to dispute the order of Mr Ambrose , that he should keep his bed , from which , indeed , he could not have raised himself without assistance . 
Once a-day , the ladies came in great state to wait upon him , and enquire after his health , and it was then that Alan 's natural civility , and the thankfulness which he expressed for their timely and charitable assistance , raised him considerably in their esteem . 
He was on the third day removed to a better apartment than that in which he had been at first accommodated . 
When he was permitted to drink a glass of wine , it was of the first quality ; one of those curious old-fashioned cobwebbed bottles being produced on the occasion , which are only to be found in the crypts of old country seats , where they may have lurked undisturbed for more than half a century . 
This was nothing remarkable , most old Border-houses having their windows so secured ; but then Fairford observed , that whoever entered or left the room , always locked the door with great care and circumspection ; and some proposals which he made to take a walk in the gallery , or even in the garden , were so coldly received , both by the ladies and their prime minister , Mr Ambrose , that he saw plainly such an extension of his privileges as a guest would not be permitted . 
The fingers of that worthy domestic closed as naturally upon the honorarium , as if a degree in the learned faculty had given him a right to clutch it but his answer concerning Alan 's proposed departure was at first evasive , and when he was pushed , it amounted to a peremptory assurance that he could not be permitted to depart to-morrow ; it was as much as his life was worth , and his ladies would not authorize it . 
`` I know best what my own life is worth , '' said Alan ; `` and I do not value it in comparison to the business which requires my instant attention . '' 
Receiving still no satisfactory answer from Mr Ambrose , Fairford thought it best to state his resolution to the ladies themselves , in the most measured , respectful , and grateful terms ; but still such as expressed a firm determination to depart on the morrow , or next day at farthest . 
After some attempts to induce him to stay , on the alleged score of health , which were so expressed that he was convinced they were only used to delay his departure , Fairford plainly told them that he was intrusted with dispatches of consequence to the gentleman known by the name of Herries , Redgauntlet , and the Laird of the Lochs ; and that it was matter of life and death to deliver them early . 
`` To tell you the truth , Mr Fairford , the cause of our desire to delay you is -- there is a religious gentleman in this house at present '' -- `` A most excellent person indeed '' -- said the sister Angelica . 
thought Fairford , `` the murder is out -- here is a design of conversion ! 
`` His Eminence , '' said Fairford , surprised -- `` Is this gentleman so high in the Catholic Church ? 
`` He is not a Cardinal as yet , '' answered Seraphina ; `` but I assure you , Mr Fairford , he is as high in rank as he is eminently endowed with good gifts , and '' -- `` Come away , '' said Sister Angelica . 
-- What has Mr Fairford to do with Father Buonaventure 's rank ? 
Mr Fairford will know how to comport himself . '' 
She lowered her voice to a whisper as she pronounced the last words ; and as Fairford was about to reply , by assuring her that any friend of hers should be treated by him with all the ceremony he could expect , she imposed silence on him , by holding up her finger . 
They drew themselves , like sentinels on duty , one on each side of the door by which the long gallery communicated with Fairford 's apartment , and stood there immovable , and with countenances expressive of the deepest reverence . 
The approach of Father Buonaventure was so slow , that Fairford had time to notice all this , and to marvel in his mind what wily and ambitious priest could have contrived to subject his worthy but simple-minded hostesses to such superstitious trammels . 
He was handsomely , though gravely dressed in a secular habit , and had a cockade in his hat ; circumstances which did not surprise Fairford , who knew that a military disguise was very often assumed by the seminary priests , whose visits to England , or residence there , subjected them to legal penalties . 
The door of the apartment was shut after them , but not before Fairford had perceived that there were one or two men in the gallery , and that , contrary to what he had before observed , the door , though shut , was not locked on the outside . 
thought Fairford . 
Fairford rose to receive him respectfully , but as he fixed his eyes on the visitor , he thought that the Father avoided his looks . 
His reasons for remaining incognito were cogent enough to account for this , and Fairford hastened to relieve him , by looking downwards in his turn ; but when again he raised his face , he found the broad light eye of the stranger so fixed on him , that he was almost put out of countenance by the steadiness of his gaze . 
Fairford , somewhat surprised to find himself overawed by the airs of superiority , which could be only properly exercised towards one over whom religion gave the speaker influence , sat down at his bidding , as if moved by springs , and was at a loss how to assert the footing of equality on which he felt that they ought to stand . 
`` Your name , sir , I am informed , is Fairford ? '' 
Alan answered by a bow . 
`` There is , I believe , in the West , a family of birth and rank called Fairford of Fairford . '' 
Alan thought this a strange observation from a foreign ecclesiastic , as his name intimated Father Buonaventure to be ; but only answered , he believed there was such a family . 
`` Do you count kindred with them , Mr Fairford ? '' 
`` I have not the honour to lay such a claim , '' said Fairford . 
`` I hope so , sir , '' said Alan , colouring with displeasure . 
`` I am aware of the statute 1700 , chapter 3 , '' said Alan , `` banishing from the realm Priests and trafficking Papists , and punishing by death , on summary conviction , any such person who being so banished may return . 
`` Assuredly no , '' said Alan . 
said the Priest , with some angry emphasis ; but immediately softened his tone and added , `` No doubt , however , that person is a pretender ; and some people think his pretensions are not ill founded . 
`` Pardon me , sir , '' replied Alan Fairford ; `` I do not aspire to the honour of being reputed their confidant or go-between . 
Fairford hesitated a moment , and hastily revolving all circumstances , concluded that he might perhaps receive some advantage from propitiating this personage ; while , on the other hand , he endangered nothing by communicating to him the occasion of his journey . 
He , therefore , after stating shortly , that he hoped Mr Buonaventure would render him the same confidence which he required on his part , gave a short account of Darsie Latimer -- of the mystery which hung over his family -- and of the disaster which had befallen him . 
The Catholic Priest , whose manner it seemed to be to avoid all conversation which did not arise from his own express motion , made no remarks upon what he had heard , but only asked one or two abrupt questions , where Alan 's narrative appeared less clear to him ; then rising from his seat , he took two turns through the apartment , muttering between his teeth , with emphasis , the word `` Madman ! '' 
But apparently he was in the habit of keeping all violent emotions under restraint ; for he presently addressed Fairford with the most perfect indifference . 
`` If , '' said he , `` you thought you could do so without breach of confidence , I wish you would have the goodness to show me the letter of Mr Maxwell of Summertrees . 
Seeing no cause to decline this extension of his confidence , Alan , without hesitation , put the letter into his hand . 
Fairford answered in the negative , and , looking at the letter , read with surprise , `` Cave ne literas Bellerophontis adferres ; `` a caution which coincided so exactly with the Provost 's admonition , that he would do well to inspect the letter of which he was bearer , that he was about to spring up and attempt an escape , he knew not wherefore or from whom . 
Fairford could have answered , `` by Nanty Ewart , '' for he remembered seeing that person scribble something with a pencil , although he was not well enough to observe with accuracy where , or upon what . 
Father Buonaventure was again silent for a moment or two , which he employed in surveying the letter with the strictest attention ; then stepped to the window , as if to examine the address and writing of the envelope with the assistance of a stronger light , and Alan Fairford beheld him , with no less amazement than high displeasure , coolly and deliberately break the seal , open the letter , and peruse the contents . 
he exclaimed , so soon as his astonishment permitted him to express his resentment in words : `` by what right do you dare '' -- `` Peace , young gentleman , '' said the Father , repelling him with a wave of his hand ; `` be assured I do not act without warrant -- nothing can pass betwixt Mr Maxwell and Mr Redgauntlet that I am not fully entitled to know . '' 
`` It may be so , '' said Alan , extremely angry ; `` but though you may be these gentlemen 's father confessor , you are not mine ; and in breaking the seal of a letter intrusted to my care , you have done me '' -- `` No injury , I assure you , '' answered the unperturbed priest ; `` on the contrary , it may be a service . '' 
`` I desire no advantage at such a rate , or to be obtained in such a manner , '' answered Fairford ; `` restore me the letter instantly , or '' -- `` As you regard your own safety , '' said the priest , `` forbear all injurious expressions , and all menacing gestures . 
He then restored the letter to Fairford , and , observing that he hesitated to peruse it , said emphatically , `` Read it , for it concerns you . '' 
This recommendation , joined to what Provost Crosbie had formerly recommended , and to the warning , which he doubted not that Nanty intended to convey by his classical allusion , decided Fairford 's resolution . 
`` If these correspondents , '' he thought , `` are conspiring against my person , I have a right to counterplot them ; self-preservation , as well as my friend 's safety , require that I should not be too scrupulous . '' 
So thinking , he read the letter , which was in the following words : -- `` Dear Rugged and Dangerous , `` Will you never cease meriting your old nickname ? 
`` As strangely , '' replied Alan Fairford , `` as of the extraordinary means which you have been at present pleased to use for the discovery of Mr Maxwell 's purpose . '' 
`` You will probably , '' said Fairford , `` first weigh the risk of such a proceeding in a free country . '' 
-- And he assumed a conciliating graciousness of manner , which struck Fairford as being rather too condescending for the occasion ; `` I presume you will be satisfied to remain here in seclusion for a day or two longer , provided I pass my solemn word to you , that you shall meet with the person whom you seek after -- meet with him in perfect safety , and , I trust , in good health , and be afterwards both at liberty to return to Scotland , or dispose of yourselves as each of you may be minded ? '' 
`` I respect the verbum sacerdotis as much as can reasonably be expected from a Protestant , '' answered Fairford ; `` but , methinks , you can scarce expect me to repose so much confidence in the word of an unknown person , as is implied in the guarantee which you offer me . '' 
Alan Fairford paused . 
`` I can not see , '' he at length replied , `` how I can proceed with respect to the accomplishment of my sole purpose , which is the liberation of my friend , without appealing to the law , and obtaining the assistance of a magistrate . 
-- He crossed himself devoutly , and then proceeded . 
If you can trust me thus far , '' he said , with a proud emphasis on the words , `` I will on my side see you depart from this place with the most perfect confidence that you will not return armed with powers to drag its inmates to destruction . 
He spoke with an air of superiority , even of authority , by which Fairford , notwithstanding his own internal struggles , was silenced and overawed so much , that it was not till the Father had turned to leave the apartment that he found words to ask him what the consequences would be , should he decline to depart on the terms proposed . 
Fairford , upon his departure , felt himself much at a loss what course to pursue . 
Above all , Alan was aware , that if he accepted not his freedom upon the terms offered him , he was likely to be detained by force ; so that , in every point of view , he was a gainer by adopting them . 
A qualm , indeed , came across him , when he considered , as a lawyer , that this Father was probably , in the eye of law , a traitor ; and that there was an ugly crime on the Statute Book , called Misprision of Treason . 
Having thus made up his mind , Alan waited anxiously for the expiration of the hour which had been allowed him for deliberation . 
He was not kept on the tenter-hooks of impatience an instant longer than the appointed moment arrived , for , even as the clock struck , Ambrose appeared at the door of the gallery , and made a sign that Alan should follow him . 
He did so , and after passing through some of the intricate avenues common in old houses , was ushered into a small apartment , commodiously fitted up , in which he found Father Buonaventure reclining on a couch , in the attitude of a man exhausted by fatigue or indisposition . 
Ambrose did not enter the room -- he only bowed profoundly , and closed the door with the least possible noise , so soon as Fairford had entered . 
`` Sit down , young man , '' said the Father , with the same air of condescension which had before surprised , and rather offended Fairford . 
`` To depart , '' said Alan , `` under the agreement that you will guarantee my safety with the extraordinary person who has conducted himself in such a lawless manner towards my friend , Darsie Latimer . '' 
`` His situation as an attained person abrogates such rights , '' said Fairford , hastily . 
Fairford read these words : -- `` Good Friend , `` We send you hither a young man desirous to know the situation of your ward , since he came under your paternal authority , and hopeful of dealing with you for having your relative put at large . 
`` P.B. '' `` You will understand , sir , '' said the Father , when he saw that Alan had perused his letter , `` that , by accepting charge of this missive , you bind yourself to try the effect of it before having recourse to any legal means , as you term them , for your friend 's release . '' 
`` There are a few ciphers added to this letter , '' said Fairford , when he had perused the paper attentively , -- `` may I enquire what their import is ? '' 
`` It seems to me , however , '' replied Alan , `` natural to suppose '' -- `` Nothing must be supposed incompatible with my honour , '' replied the priest , interrupting him ; `` when such as I am confer favours , we expect that they shall be accepted with gratitude , or declined with thankful respect -- not questioned or discussed . '' 
`` I will accept your letter , then , '' said Fairford , after a minute 's consideration , `` and the thanks you expect shall be most liberally paid , if the result answer what you teach me to expect . '' 
`` I hold myself bound , as a man of good faith and honour , to do so , '' said Fairford . 
He extended his hand towards Alan , who was about to pledge his faith in the usual form by grasping it with his own , when the Father drew back hastily . 
Ere Alan had time to comment upon this repulse , a small side-door , covered with tapestry , was opened ; the hangings were drawn aside , and a lady , as if by sudden apparition , glided into the apartment . 
she said , bending her large and serious eye on Alan Fairford , as if she had been for the first time aware of his presence -- `` may I ask who he is ? '' 
The Father looked disturbed at this incident , which he seemed sensible could not but fill Fairford 's imagination with an additional throng of bewildering suspicions ; he bit his lip , and muttered something to himself as he walked through the apartment ; then suddenly turned to his visitor with a smile of much sweetness , and a countenance in which every rougher expression was exchanged for those of courtesy and kindness . 
`` The visit we have been just honoured with , my young friend , has given you , '' he said `` more secrets to keep than I would have wished your burdened with . 
`` I can have no occasion , '' replied Fairford , `` for holding any discussion with these gentlemen , or with any others , on the circumstance which I have just witnessed -- it could only have become the subject of my conversation by mere accident , and I will now take care to avoid the subject entirely . '' 
He made a graceful obeisance , and vanished through the same side-door by which the lady had entered ; and Alan thought he heard their voices high in dispute in the adjoining apartment . 
`` Make my respects to his reverence , '' answered Fairford , `` and assure him I am provided in that particular . 
Mid these acknowledgments they left the house , descended the terrace , and reached the spot where the gardener , Fairford 's old acquaintance , waited for him , mounted upon one horse , and leading another . 
Bidding adieu to Ambrose , our young lawyer mounted , and rode down the avenue , often looking back to the melancholy and neglected dwelling in which he had witnessed such strange scenes , and musing upon the character of its mysterious inmates , especially the noble and almost regal seeming priest , and the beautiful but capricious dame , who , if she was really Father Buonaventure 's penitent , seemed less docile to the authority of the church , than , as Alan conceived , the Catholic discipline permitted . 
He could not indeed help being sensible that the whole deportment of these persons differed much from his preconceived notions of a priest and devotee . 
`` I dare say I shall , Richard , '' answered Fairford , good-humouredly . 
said Fairford . 
said Fairford . 
Our history must now , as the old romancers wont to say , `` leave to tell '' of the quest of Alan Fairford , and instruct our readers of the adventures which befell Darsie Latimer , left as he was in the precarious custody of his self-named tutor , the Laird of the Lochs of Solway , to whose arbitrary pleasure he found it necessary for the present to conform himself . 
Yet this new love was rather more serious than the scarce skinned-up wounds which his friend Fairford used to ridicule . 
Yet a mistake might have occasioned a fatal explosion ; and my uncle therefore posted to Edinburgh to follow out the clew he had obtained , and fished enough of information from old Mr Fairford to make him certain that you were the person he sought . 
Meanwhile , and at the expense of some personal , and perhaps too bold exertion , I endeavoured , through your friend young Fairford , to put you on your guard . '' 
But what was his surprise to that of Darsie 's , when the hurry of the moment , and of the accident , permitted him to see that it was his friend Alan Fairford in whose arms he found himself ! 
He was about to whisper in his ear , cautioning him at the same time to be silent ; yet he hesitated for a second or two to effect his purpose , since , should Redgauntlet take the alarm from any sudden exclamation on the part of Alan , there was no saying what consequences might ensue . 
Ere he could decide what was to be done , Redgauntlet , who had entered the house , returned hastily , followed by Cristal Nixon . 
`` I 'll release you of the charge of this young lady , sir ; '' he said , haughtily , to Alan Fairford , whom he probably did not recognise . 
`` I had no desire to intrude , sir , '' replied Alan ; `` the lady 's situation seemed to require assistance -- and -- but have I not the honour to speak to Mr Herries of Birrenswork ? '' 
the truest of friends , Alan Fairford , is in pursuit of me , and is here at this moment . 
Darsie took the hint , lowered his voice , and informed her in whispers of the arrival of Fairford , and that he believed he had opened a communication with Wandering Willie . 
She listened with the utmost interest , and had just begun to reply , when a loud noise was heard in the kitchen , caused by several contending voices , amongst which Darsie thought he could distinguish that of Alan Fairford . 
`` Seeking a young advocate chap that they ca ' Alan Fairford , that has played me a slippery trick , an ye maun ken a ' about the cause , '' said Peter . 
And when I tauld him how this loopy lad , Alan Fairford , had served me , he said I might bring an action on the case -- just as if the case hadna as mony actions already as one case can weel carry . 
`` But this Alan Fairford ? '' 
`` Why , all I want to know from you , my friend , is , whether you are seeking to do this Mr Alan Fairford good or harm ; because if you come to do him good , I think you could maybe get speech of him -- and if to do him harm , I will take the liberty to give you a cast across the Frith , with fair warning not to come back on such an errand , lest worse come of it . '' 
`` I wad by no means , '' said Peter Peebles , `` do any substantial harm to the poor lad Fairford , who has had mony a gowd guinea of mine , as weel as his father before him ; but I wad hae him brought back to the minding of my business and his ain ; and maybe I wadna insist farther in my action of damages against him , than for refounding the fees , and for some annual rent on the principal sum , due frae the day on which he should have recovered it for me , plack and bawbee , at the great advising ; for , ye are aware , that is the least that I can ask nomine damni ; and I have nae thought to break down the lad bodily a ' thegither -- we maun live and let live -- forgie and forget . '' 
Our readers may recollect , that Fairford had been conducted by Dick Gardener from the House of Fairladies , to the inn of old Father Crackenthorp , in order , as he had been informed by the mysterious Father Buonaventure , that he might have the meeting which he desired with Mr Redgauntlet , to treat with him for the liberty of his friend Darsie . 
Alan Fairford complied with the recommendation , so long as he thought it reasonable ; but when , among a large party riding up to the house , he discerned Redgauntlet , whom he had seen under the name of Mr Herries of Birrenswork , and whom , by his height and strength , he easily distinguished from the rest , he thought it proper to go down to the front of the house , in hopes that , by more closely reconnoitring the party , he might discover if his friend Darsie was among them . 
It may be also recollected , that while Nixon hurried Miss Redgauntlet and her brother into the house , their uncle , somewhat chafed at an unexpected and inconvenient interruption , remained himself in parley with Fairford , who had already successively addressed him by the names of Herries and Redgauntlet ; neither of which , any more than the acquaintance of the young lawyer , he seemed at the moment willing to acknowledge , though an air of haughty indifference , which he assumed , could not conceal his vexation and embarrassment . 
`` My introduction , '' said Fairford , `` is contained in this letter , '' -- -LRB- delivering that of Maxwell . -RRB- 
Fairford despised a falsehood as much as any man , unless , perhaps , as Tom Turnpenny might have said , `` in the way of business . '' 
`` I have never broken the seal of any letter committed to my charge , '' said Alan ; `` not from fear of those to whom such letter might be addressed , but from respect to myself . '' 
`` I certainly did hear the contents read over , '' said Fairford ; `` and they were such as to surprise me a good deal . '' 
`` Stay , sir , '' said Fairford ; `` and know that I became acquainted with the contents of the paper without my consent -- I may even say against my will ; for Mr Buonaventure '' -- `` Who ? '' 
`` Father Buonaventure , '' said Alan , -- `` a Catholic priest , as I apprehend , whom I saw at the Miss Arthurets ' house , called Fairladies . '' 
said Redgauntlet , repeating the words of Alan with astonishment , -- `` Is it possible that human rashness can reach such a point of infatuation ? 
`` I am a lawyer , certainly , '' said Fairford ; `` but my holding such a respectable condition in life warrants that I am neither an informer nor a spy . 
He put Buonaventure 's letter into Redgauntlet 's hand , and watched his looks closely while he read it . 
He held up his finger towards his satellite , Cristal Nixon , who replied to his signal with a prompt nod ; and with one or two of the attendants approached Fairford in such a manner as to make him apprehensive they were about to lay hold of him . 
In a word then , '' said Peter Peebles , `` I have a warrant on me to apprehend that man that stands there , Alan Fairford by name , and advocate by calling . 
From amongst this precious mass he culled forth a paper , and placed it in the hands of Redgauntlet or Herries , as he continued to call him , saying , at the same time , `` It 's a formal and binding warrant , proceeding on my affidavy made , that the said Alan Fairford , being lawfully engaged in my service , had slipped the tether and fled over the Border , and was now lurking there and thereabouts , to elude and evite the discharge of his bounden duty to me ; and therefore granting warrant to constables and others , to seek for , take , and apprehend him , that he may be brought before the Honourable Justice Foxley for examination , and , if necessary , for commitment . 
Without making any direct answer , therefore , to Peter Peebles , he walked up gravely to Fairford , who had waited quietly for the termination of a scene , in which he was not a little surprised to find his client , Mr Peebles , a conspicuous actor . 
`` Mr Fairford , '' said Redgauntlet , `` there are many reasons which might induce me to comply with the request , or rather the injunctions , of the excellent Father Buonaventure , that I should communicate with you upon the present condition of my ward , whom you know under the name of Darsie Latimer ; but no man is better aware than you that the law must be obeyed , even in contradiction to our own feelings ; now , this poor man has obtained a warrant for carrying you before a magistrate , and , I am afraid , there is a necessity of your yielding to it , although to the postponement of the business which you may have with me . '' 
said Alan , indignantly ; `` and at that poor miserable wretch 's instance ? 
Fairford ran over the affidavit and the warrant , and then exclaimed once more , that it was an impudent imposition , and that he would hold those who acted upon such a warrant liable in the highest damages . 
`` I guess at your motive , Mr Redgauntlet , '' he said , `` for acquiescing in so ridiculous a proceeding . 
`` Did ever any one hear , '' said Fairford , `` of an advocate being compelled to return to his task , like a collier or a salter Collier and Salter . 
`` You can not mean this in earnest , '' said Fairford ; `` you can not really mean to avail yourself of so poor a contrivance , to evade the word pledged by your friend , your ghostly father , in my behalf . 
I entreat you to reflect that this usage releases me from all promises of secrecy or connivance at what I am apt to think are very dangerous practices , and that '' -- `` Hark ye , Mr Fairford , '' said Redgauntlet ; `` I must here interrupt you for your own sake . 
`` And my friend , '' said Alan Fairford , `` for whose sake I have run myself into this danger , what is to become of him ? 
he exclaimed , raising his voice , `` I will not be again cajoled by deceitful promises '' -- `` I give you my honour that your friend is well , '' interrupted Redgauntlet ; `` perhaps I may permit you to see him , if you will but submit with patience to a fate which is inevitable . '' 
But Alan Fairford , considering his confidence as having been abused , first by Maxwell , and next by the Priest , raised his voice , and appealed to all the King 's lieges within hearing , against the violence with which he was threatened . 
-- `` I will neither see my comrade Fairford , nor the old Quaker , abused . 
`` I desire my liberty , and to be assured of the safety of my beloved friend , Alan Fairford , whose voice I heard but now . '' 
`` Yet stay -- Will you be satisfied if you see this Alan Fairford , the bundle of bombazine -- this precious friend of yours -- well and sound ? 
Darsie was compelled to acquiesce , sufficiently aware that his uncle would permit him no interview with a friend whose influence would certainly be used against his present earnest wishes , and in some measure contented with the assurance of Fairford 's personal safety . 
In this room they found Alan Fairford and the Quaker , apparently in deep conversation with each other . 
They looked up as Redgauntlet and his party entered ; and Alan pulled off his hat and made a profound reverence , which the young lady , who recognised him , -- though , masked as she was , he could not know her , -- returned with some embarrassment , arising probably from the recollection of the bold step she had taken in visiting him . 
`` This must be Fairford and Geddes . 
Into this , Joe , with little ceremony , and a good deal of noise , introduced the Quaker and Fairford ; the first descanting on the immorality , the other on the illegality , of his proceedings ; and he turning a deaf ear both to the one and the other . 
If Peter had immediately recognised his counsel learned in the law , it is probable that not even the benevolent efforts of the Quaker could have kept him in a state of restraint ; but Fairford 's back was turned towards his client , whose optics , besides being somewhat dazzled with ale and brandy , were speedily engaged in contemplating a half-crown which Joshua held between his finger and his thumb , saying , at the same time , `` Friend , thou art indigent and improvident . 
`` But never mind , friend , '' said Peter , `` I 'll tell you the exact state of the conjunct processes , and make you sensible that I can bring mysell round with a wet finger , now I have my finger and my thumb on this loup-the-dike loon , the lad Fairford . '' 
Alan Fairford was in the act of speaking to the masked lady , -LRB- for Miss Redgauntlet had retained her riding vizard , -RRB- endeavouring to assure her , as he perceived her anxiety , of such protection as he could afford , when his own name , pronounced in a loud tone , attracted his attention . 
He looked round , and , seeing Peter Peebles , as hastily turned to avoid his notice , in which he succeeded , so earnest was Peter upon his colloquy with one of the most respectable auditors whose attention he had ever been able to engage . 
And by this little motion , momentary as it was , Alan gained an unexpected advantage ; for while he looked round , Miss Lilias , I could never ascertain why , took the moment to adjust her mask , and did it so awkwardly , that when her companion again turned his head , he recognised as much of her features as authorized him to address her as his fair client , and to press his offers of protection and assistance with the boldness of a former acquaintance . 
`` Mr Fairford , '' she said , in a voice almost inaudible , `` you have the character of a young gentleman of sense and generosity ; but we have already met in one situation which you must think singular ; and I must be exposed to misconstruction , at least , for my forwardness , were it not in a cause in which my dearest affections were concerned . '' 
`` Any interest in my beloved friend Darsie Latimer , '' said Fairford , stepping a little back , and putting a marked restraint upon his former advances , `` gives me a double right to be useful to '' -- . 
replied Alan , in the extremity of astonishment -- `` Sister , I presume , in affection only ? '' 
Fairford 's first thought was on the violent passion which Darsie had expressed towards the fair unknown . 
`` Let me hasten to him , '' said Fairford ; `` I have sought him through difficulties and dangers -- I must see him instantly . '' 
`` I do not indeed know the particulars of our situation , '' said Fairford ; `` but , be the danger what it may , I shall not grudge my share of it for the sake of my friend ; or , '' he added , with more timidity , `` of my friend 's sister . 
Under these circumstances , securing themselves as far as possible from observation , conversing in whispers , and seated in a corner , where they were brought into so close contact that their faces nearly touched each other , Fairford heard from Lilias Redgauntlet the history of her family , particularly of her uncle ; his views upon her brother , and the agony which she felt , lest at that very moment he might succeed in engaging Darsie in some desperate scheme , fatal to his fortune , and perhaps to his life . 
Alan Fairford 's acute understanding instantly connected what he had heard with the circumstances he had witnessed at Fairladies . 
He was capable of visiting upon Darsie any injury which he might conceive Fairford had rendered him -- he was her near kinsman also , and not an unkind one , and she deprecated any effort , even in her brother 's favour , by which his life must be exposed to danger . 
Fairford himself remembered Father Buonaventure , and made little question but that he was one of the sons of the old Chevalier de Saint George ; and with feelings which , although contradictory of his public duty , can hardly be much censured , his heart recoiled from being the agent by whom the last scion of such a long line of Scottish Princes should be rooted up . 
Their youthful deliberation had nearly fixed in this point , when Fairford , who was listening to the low sweet whispering tones of Lilias Redgauntlet , rendered yet more interesting by some slight touch of foreign accent , was startled by a heavy hand which descended with full weight on his shoulder , while the discordant voice of Peter Peebles , who had at length broken loose from the well-meaning Quaker , exclaimed in the ear of his truant counsel -- `` Aha , lad ! 
Alan Fairford had never more difficulty in his life to subdue a first emotion , than he had to refrain from knocking down the crazy blockhead who had broke in upon him at such a moment . 
Fairford shook off , rather indignantly , the large bony hand which Peter had imposed upon his shoulder , and was about to say something peevish , upon so unpleasant and insolent a mode of interruption , when the door opened , a treble voice saying to the sentinel , `` I tell you I maun be in , to see if Mr Nixon 's here ; '' and Little Benjie thrust in his mophead and keen black eyes . 
It was addressed to C. N. `` It is for the villain Nixon , '' she said to Alan Fairford ; `` open it without scruple ; that boy is his emissary ; we shall now see what the miscreant is driving at . '' 
Alan Fairford did not hesitate to read the little scrap of paper , on which was written , `` All is prepared -- keep them in play until I come up -- You may depend on your reward . 
In the same breath , they were both at the half-opened door of the room , Fairford entreating to speak with the Father Buonaventure , and Lilias , equally vehemently , requesting a moment 's interview with her uncle . 
Amid the confusion occasioned by the alarming incident , the sentinel ceased to attend to his duty ; and , accepting Alan Fairford 's arm , Lilias found no opposition in penetrating even to the inner apartment , where the principal persons in the enterprise , whose conclave had been disturbed by this alarming incident , were now assembled in great confusion , and had been joined by the Chevalier himself . 
Unnoticed in such a scene , Darsie , his sister , and Fairford , drew together , and held each other by the hands , as those who , when a vessel is about to founder in the storm , determine to take their chance of life and death together . 
Darsie and his sister naturally followed their uncle , whose violence they no longer feared , while his character attracted their respect ; and Alan Fairford accompanied them from interest in their fate , unnoticed in a party where all were too much occupied with their own thoughts and feelings , as well as with the impending crisis , to attend to his presence . 
I perceive also , by a marriage contract in the family repositories , that Miss Lilias Redgauntlet of Redgauntlet , about eighteen months after the transactions you have commemorated , intermarried with Alan Fairford , Esq.Advocate , of Clinkdollar , who , I think , we may not unreasonably conclude to be the same person whose name occurs so frequently in the pages of your narration . 
In my last excursion to Edinburgh , I was fortunate enough to discover an old cadie , from whom , at the expense of a bottle of whisky , and half a pound of tobacco , I extracted the important information , that he knew Peter Peebles very well , and had drunk many a mutchkin with him in Cadie Fraser 's time . 
