I wish it was , or he was , for it is that same tedious , tiresome , persecuting , Harry Lee . 
You see I can even call his name now , which my poor fond father would no more do in my presence , than he would explode a petard at my feet . 
Papa attended old Mr. Lee in his last illness , he was unprepared to die -- no will made . 
Oh , how merry Frank was -- so full of buoyant spirits -- so exhiliarated with hope -- so cheerful -- so kind to every body , so obliging -- so repentant when he did wrong , so stern and steady when right . 
I think I can see his pouting lip now maintaining his boyish rights . 
`` Do you know Kate , that I saw a fearful resemblance to the expression of his mouth in that strange tutor last night . 
Perhaps thought I , he too has been left an orphan like poor Frank , and wandered as he did , from the happy scenes of his childhood , and is now calling them up one by one , in painful pictures of the past . 
I longed to compare notes with him , I know it was very foolish , but it was all conjured up by that smile . 
One circumstance I did remark , by the by -- whenever he went away to spend a day or a week , with some neighboring youth among the gentry , we were all moped to death . 
Father and Harry were as much rejoiced to see him return as I was , but this was attributed by me at the time , to the breaking up of our little family party . 
Neither had I perceived up to this time , that Frank was at all different from other youths of his age , he appeared just like them to me -- he dressed like the rest of the young gentry -- rode like them -- talked like them . 
No , not exactly either -- he did not talk like common boys , for there was a winning gentleness about him mingled with the manliness of riper years , which the old negroes used to say betokened an early death . 
Frank , you know , by the laws of the land , inherited the bulk of his father 's property , which had been in no way disturbed by the will , except to give Harry his mother 's share , which was amply sufficient , I am told , to have made him independent , and better off than younger brothers generally are . 
Yet there was now evidently growing up a jealousy of his brother 's great possessions . 
Though the younger he would sneer at his brother 's position , as the head of the family -- bow to him when rebuked , in mock humility . 
`` In all their College squabbles with other boys , Harry was sure to be the aggressor in the quarrel , and Frank was sure to do the fighting ; not that Harry was a coward at all , but his brother was so much more of a generous and ohivalrous nature . 
I have seen him come home all bloody from fighting Harry 's battles , and can not remember an instance of the latter becoming the champion of the other . '' 
Harry perceived this growing partiality of my father -- if that may be called partiality , which was nothing more than the love of good and generous actions , and was not long in telling him of it . 
Not only did he charge him with it , but he alleged that it was the result of interested motives , and grew entirely out of his desire to secure Frank and his fortune for his daughter . 
My venerable old father was terribly shocked , as you may suppose , and he rebuked Harry , as I never heard him rebuke any one before . 
If Harry had possessed any genuine feeling , he would have shrunk into nothing , at such a withering castigation , from a source usually so mild and gentle . 
But he was far from feeling remorse on the occasion , and never retracted . 
I , of course , at that age , could not enter into a very rigid self-examination ; my powers of self-analysis , if I had even been disposed to exercise them , could not be very great , but I can trace my feelings now , and I confess to you , that that charge , a disgraceful one if true , carried with it a surmise that , though wholly untrue on our parts , it might not be so on Frank 's Oh , what a terrible quarrel succeeded between those two young brothers ; Frank poured down such a torrent of indignation upon his brother , as no one could have supposed would ever issue from lips usually so mild and gentle ; and , must I confess all , it was mingled with such praises of me , as no poor motherless girl of fourteen could hear in safety . 
You , dear Kate , can imagine my feelings ; young as I was , I was covered with shame , and must have looked to him like the guilty participator in the interested scheme with which his brother charged me , but it was from a very different cause . 
Even our little Eden found a tempter , I will not call him a serpent , for you know Harry Lee and respect him , and he is often your father 's guest , but I will say that he is by no means exempt from the fierce and deadly passions of our nature . 
Nay , more , and let this be the answer once for all to his suit , his long and persevering suit , pleaded by so many able advocates . 
Though so calm and high-bred in all his exterior man , he is but a common man still -- all his passions and deadly enmities are only schooled into good behavior ; though wreaths and flowers grow upon the surface , serpents slumber beneath . 
`` He returned to our house next morning , nothwithstanding his anathmas of the evening before , and his stealthy and watchful jealousy very soon discovered that there was an understanding between Frank and me , if not approved by my father , and this brings me to the latter 's view of the matter . 
He has always been mother and father both , to me , consequently the most unreserved confidence existed between us , as much so as ever existed between parent and daughter . 
I went , after a sleepless night , and told him the whole story of our youthful love and its premature revelation ; for I can call it nothing else but a discovery , and an accidental one on our parts . 
He was most deeply moved , aye , and interested too , beyond that which a fond parent might be supposed to feel , for he was struck with the novelty of such a youthful engagement . 
I know of no aspirations after Heaven and its enjoyments , that are not mixed up with thoughts of his pure spirit . '' 
`` My father , I could see , was pleased in spite of himself , and in spite of Harry 's poisonous breath having been blown into our cup of happiness ; but he decided at once , that Frank must anticipate his Edinburgh course , before determined upon , and they had a long interview that morning , the result of which was that he was to set out forthwith . 
Here again , let me say that this very thing constantly rises up in judgment against Harry . 
It is unjust , perhaps , but I can not help viewing him as in part the cause of poor Frank 's unhappy fate . 
True , he would have gone some time or other , like all the youth among our gentry , to finish his education in Europe , but he would not have gone then , and might have escaped the entanglement with your unhappy relative 's affairs , at any other time . 
Harry could not conceal his delight at the new arrangement , even under his cold , proud exterior , and positively refused to accompany his brother . 
Harry seemed to think that he had the whole game in his own hands , after Frank 's departure -- he could not conceal his exultation -- he attempted to assume his position in our family , and even went so far as to affect his easy , careless ways and winning manners . 
You know enough of that proud and haughty spirit , to estimate how very unbecoming it appeared in him , but why need I dwell upon that particular assumption of what was not his own -- has he not assumed the hues of the chameleon ; and above all , has he not taken every thing that was Franks ? '' 
`` Of course , but it is not just that -- it was the indecent haste to step into his shoes in all respects , to which I intended to allude , but perhaps I am unjust to Harry in detailing particulars . 
I do not wrong him , however , in the spirit which I attribute to him as to his past life . 
Has not our childhood been spent together -- and is he not now ever at our house ? 
No , no , Kate , I have not wronged him on the whole -- I have drawn a flattering likeness of him , and now contrast poor Frank 's personal outlines with his , and you have the two pictures complete . '' 
First , then , we have never been enabled to hear those sad particulars , the last scene I mean ; and , secondly , Harry has some such faint notion himself ; I will not call it either a fear or a hope , for I can not name it , but there is such a surmise ; and now , to conclude , let me confess further , that I came here with the expectation of having this hope quenched or revived . '' 
Here is Mr. Harry Lee , a gentleman of princely fortune , high birth , great personal accomplishments , and a plavmate of your childhood , whom you can not bear the sight of ; while on the other hand , you are ready to vonch for the honor and honesty of a poor stanger whom you never saw but once before in your life . '' 
As to the fortune and birth , and all that , which you have tossed into Harry Lee 's scale in balancing these two characters . 
`` I would not marry him if he was heir apparent to the throne of England . '' 
`` I heard a servant announce to my father , as I left the room , that Mr. Lee would be here to-day . '' 
`` Did you suppose because out of health , I was a poor tame somebody that said yea and nay , with a drawl , and nasal twang , and that I would be Mr. Lee 's humble servant as soon as he laid his fortune at my feet . 
`` I confess Ellen , that I never admired him myself , even before your sketch , and I can not say that my estimate has increased since ; he is a gentleman for all that . '' 
`` Yes , as your holyday world has it -- your world that estimates every thing by the surface , he isa gentleman , but oh , Kate , how I have come to despise that hollow , deceitful , average of all men to one common conventional standard . 
if the forthcoming shadow of Harry Lee makes you as satirical as that amusing churchman whom I read to you last night , what will his real presence do ? '' 
`` Make me as stately and formal as he is , if not so pempous . '' 
`` And is he one of your stuffed figures , that talks of the weather and one thing or another -- a walking weather-cock , or the clerk of the weather 's deputy ? '' 
`` And what is the staple of his conversation ? '' 
`` His world material and immaterial , has one common centre , and that is Mr. Harry Lee , member of the house of Burgesses . 
He is a philosopher too , and has discovered a new theory of the solar system ! '' 
`` Indeed , and what is his grand principle ? '' 
How stately rode the representative of all the Lee 's that day , followed by two servants in livery , one bearing a portmanteau strapped to his saddle , as large as a modern travelling appendage of the same sort for a whole family . 
`` Do n't you know , '' she whispered , `` that Mr. Lee has a vote in the house of Burgesses . '' 
One sane and sound suggestion , however , she retained from the dreamy and fitful reveries of the morning , it was the probability that this individual could throw some light upon that one subject , ever nearest to her heart , the last hours of poor Frank Lee , and to ascertain that he was indeed numbered with the dead . 
She resolved at once to seek him . 
Mr. Lee walked entirely round the table to greet her , which he did in a really warm manner for him , with many compliments upon her improved looks , all which was received with the most freezing courtesy ; barely returning his repeated bows , with a single inclination of the head . 
`` I will turn that grave matter over to my friend Dorothea , if you please , Mr. Lee , I have been so long out of the world of fashion , that I do not feel competent to answer , '' said Ellen . 
`` You seem disposed to carry on Mr. Lee 's craniological discussion , while that gentleman has dropped out of the debate , '' replied he , sotto voce . 
The rest of the company being unanimous , he was overruled , and she tripped away to bring it , and soon returned with a narrow strip of paper , and handed it to Mr. Harry Lee , with a request to read it . 
-LSB- 6 -RSB- Every one laughed , except the grave Mr. Lee , he seemed to writhe under the infliction , as if his personal peculiarities were the subject of merriment . 
`` Why , Mr. Lee , '' said Dorothea , `` you take the thing so much to heart , that we shall suspect you of being the author , presently . '' 
`` Those memorable lines , '' said his Excellency , seeing his guest 's confusion , `` remind me , that we have not yet drank a toast , never neglected at this table , ` Health and long life to the Queen , God bless her . '' ' 
Lee observed it , as did the young ladies , who sat near him ; the eye of the former twinkled with gratified feelings of some sort , while the latter were all pained at the young man 's embarrassment . 
Mr. Lee finding what a universal favorite the latter was becoming , not only with the Governor but with the whole family , even down to Master Robert , perceptibly softened in his manner towards the young stranger . 
The young man appeared not a little embarrassed , but proceeded to name the place of his family residence in Scotland , as well as to describe his living relations and their descent from the common stock of the Hall 's of -- shire . 
Not only so , but he traced distinctly the collateral branch which had emigrated to America , some fifty years before , until he arrived at the last remaining female relation , whose death he had not heard of ; the very person alluded to by Mr. Lee . 
said Mr. Lee , `` and your christian name is Henry ? '' 
Hall nodded assent , but his face flushed a crimson hue . 
`` Of course , '' continued Mr. Lee , `` it will be quite easy for you to establish your identity ; you have brought letters to some persons in this country ? '' 
Hall was , by this time , almost speechless with vexation and embarrassment and his face flushed to his ears . 
He merely nodded assent . 
The Governor seeing the young man 's painful position , and thinking in his own mind , that he , perhaps , knew Hall 's difficulty , determined to come to the rescue . 
`` Agreed , '' said Mr. Lee , `` As I am the executor to my Aunt 's will , it is , of course , my duty to act in conformity to law ; but I assure your Excellency , and your friend , that no unnecessary difficulties shall be thrown in his way by me ; on the contrary , all possible facility shall be afforded him , and I will immediately , upon my return to the capital , instruct my attorney , Mr. Clayton , to draw out upon paper for his use , such steps as it will be necessary for him to take . 
Dorothea , do give Mr. Lee credit for his good actions such as they are , surely he has done nothing but what the strictest justice would warrant ; true , he might have withheld Mr. Hall 's rights , but they are his after all , and he could soon establish them as such . 
`` Thank goodness , '' whispered Dorothea to her sister , `` Mr. Lee 's nose is put out of joint now . '' 
Strange to say , that Mr. Lee was the least inclined to treat this descendant of our forest kings with respect , of any person in the room . 
`` Aye , did you know him ? '' 
`` Know him -- know him ! '' 
Instantly her countenance rose , and she sprung forward with her hands clasped together beseechingly , as she asked , `` Oh , tell me , does he live ? '' 
`` Live -- live -- does he live ? 
`` Because I can not tell you all I know of him for whom you inquire , without exposing myself . 
`` Oh , you need have no fears of me -- secrets in which he was involved , would be sacred with me at least , and you -- could you suppose that Iwould betray you , if there was anything to betray ? '' 
`` I knew your story when I first entered yonder mansion , as well as I do now , but poor Frank labored under a grievous mistake as to your feelings towards him , unless they have lately changed back again into their old channel . '' 
the course of that stream has not been half so steady and constant as the current of my very heart 's blood , in his favor . '' 
`` Before God , I believe you , but there was some gross deception practised upon him some where . 
Not an hour before he made the desperate and suicidal attempt to rescue the brave officer who lies buried there , he expressed the desperate determination to throw his life away . 
`` From his own brother . '' 
`` From Harry Lee ! 
And what could he say to produce so desperate a resolve in Frank ? '' 
He said that he expected to marry you before his brother 's return , that he had already obtained her father 's consent , and only waited to break down the obstacles which young maidens love to gather round themselves ; that they were already giving way , and would soon totally disappear before the warmth of his suit . 
Those were almost his very words . '' 
`` Oh , the base ingrate -- there was scarcely a word of truth in the whole -- it is true he asked my Father 's consent to pay his addresses to me , but heonly referred him to me for a decision , telling him at the same time that he would never interfere with my inclinations , so long as the object of my choice was respectable and intelligent ; and as to the obstacle , I was really endeavoring to teach myself to look upón him in the light of a brother , until finding my motives entirely misunderstood , I had to put him upon the stately footing which you have seen , and which much better suits him . 
`` There was still another thing which made him believe Harry 's letter , your own had ceased for some time , which gave his statements a remarkable coloring of truth . '' 
`` Of the cause of that I know nothing , except his frequent change of place after leaving London . 
I wrote to him regularly . '' 
I will tell you what little I know of him . 
When he first came over , he spent sometime in travelling , and then entered the University at Edinburgh , as was his first intention , and made great progress with his studies , and would really have been distinguished as a scholar , but for an unfortunate circumstance which happened . 
Frank sought him out , and their mutual relations to Gov. Spotswood , soon produced an intimacy . 
Frank was burning with impatience to join the army , but his guardian 's instructions were so positive about the necessity of finishing his collegiate course , that he resisted his impulses for the time . 
I was in College at the same time , and knew every turn of Frank 's mind as well as if he had been my brother . 
It was led by Frank -- he was cut down by the soldiers on duty , and rode over by a troop of dragoons . 
No one supposed it possible that he could survive . 
He was carried off by a party of Collegians , who witnessed the affray and recognised him . 
To the world he has been dead eversince . '' 
`` To the world , '' exclaimed Ellen , seizing his hand entreatingly , `` then he yet lives to his friends . '' 
`` I will not , can not say positively ; but I will say , that I saw him after he was reported to be dead . '' 
I could not have believed that it could come to this ; and would not now believe it , if I had not received it from Harry 's own hand , and no one who bears the name of Lee can lie ? 
May you and Harry glide gently down the vale of life , undisturbed by the trials which have wrecked my peace ! 
A single note of interrogation after the word lie , though placed there in the hurry of agitated composition , or by mistake , seemed to her excited fancy as if poor Frank had intended to ask the question , whether Harry could have falsified her or not . 
The adventurer carries it off boldly , I assure you , for he treats Harry as if he were the debtor and Hall the creditor . '' 
Harry Lee could scarcely believe his own eyes , when he saw the young lady at whose feet he had been casting his princely fortune , and not less princely self , daily wandering along the shores of the bay , and through the garden and the shady groves , and along the banks of the little brook , with one whom he considered as only occupying his present social position by sufferance . 
He was struck with the fact , that the more Ellen and Hall were together , the more the hatred of the latter was manifested to him . 
On one of these occasions , Dorothea , with a sly smile upon her face , proposed to despatch a messenger for the Doctor , if Mr. Lee was getting much worse , as she said her brother was better , and the Doctor could no doubt be spared in case of emergency . 
On one of these mornings , Lee walked into the library , at that hour when he knew the Secretary was at work and alone . 
The latter rose hastily , handed him a chair , and at the same time stuck the pen behind his ear , after which he took his own seat , and waited for Mr. Lee to open the conversation , which he did as follows : `` Mr. Hall , in the absence of Governor Spotswood and Dr. Evylin , I have taken upon myself a very unpleasing duty , and one which I fear in its performance may inflict pain upon you . '' 
`` Lee bit his lip , and elevated his person still more than usual , if possible , as he proceeded : `` You must know , sir , that it is not usual in this country , for one who holds the -- the subordinate office of Tutor or Private Secretary , to assume an equal station with gentlemen of birth and fortune . '' 
`` I am at a loss to know , Mr. Lee , in what I have transcended the indulgence extended to me by Gov. Spotswood himself . 
I even abstained from presenting myself at his table , until expressly commanded to do so by himself . '' 
`` In that matter he had doubtless a right to do as he pleased ; but you must know that the Governor is a very eccentric man , and somewhat whimsical -- he may command you to set at his table to-day , and refuse you to morrow . '' 
Am I to understand Mr. Lee , as expressing a contrary desire ? '' 
`` By no means -- I only alluded to your appearance at table as an example , and because you first alluded to it yourself ; my design was to touch upon other matters -- your intimate association with the female inmates of his family . '' 
`` Very well , sir , '' said he , `` I have at least brought this matter to an issue , and I will state the case to the ladies of the family , and they can act as they choose , until the gentlemen return . '' 
`` That is , am I to understand that Mr. Lee is willing to grant me to be a gentleman in war , but not in love . '' 
Soon after which Lee left the room , with a rather more polite and respectful air than he had entered it . 
He nevertheless went straightway to the parlor , and despatched a servant for Miss Evylin . 
While he was kicking his heels in the parlor , we will glance into the Governor 's library again , where we left the Tutor . 
The main subject of his present reflections was the impending personal difficulty with Mr. Lee . 
He foresaw that a crisis in that affair was inevitable , and that it was surrounded with difficulties which would ruin him , if he seized upon either horn of the dilemma . 
He could neither fight Lee , nor refuse to fight with honor , according to the prevailing notions of the country and the times , and yet he gathered from some expressions dropped by that young gentleman in their late altercation , that he would force it to such an issue in the last resort . 
We will leave him , however , to struggle with his own difficulties , while we return to Mr. Lee , who waited a considerable time for Ellen to make her appearance . 
`` Miss Evylin , '' he began , `` I have sent for you , to have some conversation upon a subject which I fear will be painful , but I felt it to be my duty to do so , in the absence of Governor Spotswood and your father . '' 
and she ran up and grasped his arm . 
`` True , '' she said , and threw herself into a chair in a listless mood , as if she cared not what else he might say . 
She was however mistaken there , for she was roused again in an instant , as he proceeded : `` Miss Evylin -- Mr. Hall has used your name in a way , which I have every reason to believe was entirely unauthorized by you , and one , too , which I must say it becomes you to authorize me to contradict at once . '' 
Ellen rose to her feet , and walked straight up to Lee , and looked into his face , as she inquired in a slow , almost whispered voice , so deep was her emotion , `` Did Mr. Hall use such language of me , and with such a motive , and with such an air ? '' 
`` Mr. Lee , refresh your memory again -- I would have perilled my life upon the truth and honor of that gentleman -- have not your own feelings colored his expressions ? '' 
Ellen rose to take her leave , from which Mr. Lee endeavored to persuade her , saying that he had far more important matters to discuss with her , than the clumsy tricks of an every day impostor ; but she pleaded her deep mortification , and the confused state of her mind , from the perplexing doubts which still crowded upon her , and that she needed repose and that calm reflection which solitude alone could give . 
As she slowly mounted the staire , she thought of the letter which Hall had brought her , and from whom , and was on the point of rushing back into the room , and telling Lee that she would rather doubt him than Hall ; but such was his high standing for a man of honor and veracity , that she did not dare thus to brave the pet of public opinion . 
She resumed her way , the same train of reflections still forcing themselves upon her mind -- how could he -LRB- Hall -RRB- know all the delicate and intricate matters which he had related to her , if he was the gross and vulgar impostor , that Mr. Lee represented him to be . 
Her reason was almost bewildered by these conflicting views -- between the internal evidence of truth in Hall 's narrative to her , and Lee 's positive testimony as to his gross and ungentlemanly statement with regard to herself . 
In whatever manner he might have possessed the information alluded to , if Lee 's statement was true , he was undoubtedly some low creature . 
Nevertheless her indignation every now and then burst out , whenever she thought of the manner in which he had perverted her acts and spoken of them . 
Whatever might be her heart 's leaning to the accused , she resolved that nothing of it should appear in her conduct ; that she would show him that she knew and scorned his assumptions . 
In the mean time Lee had not been idle -- he next sent for Lady Spotswood , and to her and Dorothea he related a somewhat similar story , suppressing particulars in Ellen 's case , barely referring them to her for proof of base ingratitude , as well as falsehood . 
He found all the ladies prepossessed in the Tutor 's favor , and Dorothea remained so , in spite of all he could say to the contrary . 
`` Why , slapped Mr. Lee 's face and told him to go home about his business . 
Did n't he make all this mischief here . 
Harry Lee will take the house , plantation and all , if papa do n't soon come home . '' 
`` Fie , fie , Dorothea , Mr. Lee is not to blame for Mr. Hall 's faults . '' 
`` I tell you , Ellen , it 's Mr. Lee who has the beam in his own eye , and he has swallowed one too for what I know , he 's so stiff . '' 
`` Will Miss Evylin deign , '' he said , `` to inform so humble an individual as myself , how he has fallen not only under her displeasure , but also that of the family ? '' 
Mr. Lee undertook to take me to task for pushing myself , a poor Tutor , forward into society , where my presence was not wanted . 
He went so far as to intimate that I presumed in sitting at the table with the rest of the family , and when I told him I had done so at the express command of his Excellency , be then changed his ground and claimed to catechise me with regard to my attentions to you . 
I challenged his right to do so , and he then stated that he was an avowed suitor , with your father 's approbation . 
I stated neither more nor less , without coloring of any sort , and simply to justify myself from his charge of presumption . 
He had seen Lee passing in front of the verandah , and followed him down the garden , where he soon overtook and addressed him , thus : `` You came to me this morning , sir , professing yourself under the painful necessity of communicating something disagreeable , I now address you under precisely similar circumstances . '' 
And with this he strode off , but presently returned , and said , `` Hark you , Sir Tutor , you must establish your claims to be treated as a gentleman , and that right speedily , or I will not only chastise you in a way you will not fancy , but I will take such steps as to guard the community from your becoming heir to any more stray legacies . '' 
Hall 's lips curled in disdain as he replied , `` choose , your own manner and time of redress for the insult which now adheres to you . 
Lee strode rapidly up to him in a threatening attitude , with his hand upon his sword , his face but a few inches from that of his adversary , and replied , `` Do you mean to provoke me to forget that we are the only grown white males upon the place , and that the ladies are under our , or rather my protection ? '' 
Lee drew his rapier and flashed it in the face of the Tutor , as he exclaimed , `` by heavens another such taunt and I will let out your base churl 's blood here upon the walk , in spite of all the restraints upon me . 
Hall wore no sword , but he carried a small rattan in his hand , which he elevated , touching the point almost in his adversary 's face , as one who puts himself in the attitude to guard , exclaiming , `` Come on , sir , I am more than a match for you , even thus . '' 
Lee scorned his scientific posture and rushed upon him as if he would despatch him at single lunge , but the next moment found his sword twirling in the air , and Hall leaning upon his cane laughing at the foaming and now fruitless anger of his adversary . 
A few yards distant , among the shrubbery , he saw little Bob 's face peeping out in the same mirthful delight , but truth to say , it was blanched white with fear , and the color had not yet returned . 
Lee clutched his sword and hurried from the garden , swearing vengeance against the impostor . 
He rushed to the house , and after a hasty word or two with Lady Spotswood , ordered his horses and rode post haste to the capital . 
Not , however , before he had scratched a few words on a slip of paper , and sent them to the young man in the garden . 
`` All in good time , Robert , but come here ; you must not mention this unless Mr. Lee communicates it first ; now remember , you will injure instead of befriend me , if you do . '' 
Oh what a bright and cheerful spirit he was blessed with ! 
He took my hand and looked up in my face , -LRB- we were alone , -RRB- and said cheerfully -- ` it is from within that the brightest illumination is to be drawn . 
These very subjects were discussed by poor Frank and myself many a time , before he sailed upon that fatal voyage . 
So much had we learned to think in common , that it is hard now for me to separate my own ideas from his . 
Doubtless my constant association with him gave a masculine cast to many of my thoughts , the observation of which no doubt elicited your remark . '' 
`` Every youth , in the hey-day of his imagination , sketches out some charming little beau-ideal of a partner for life , and into this beautiful creation of his own he almost performs the part of creator , for he breathes into her such feelings , sentiments , and opinions as he desires she should possess ; now here is poor Frank , with the ideal creature reduced to reality ; but like all the bright glimpses vouchsafed to our race , no sooner is it perfected ready for him to grasp , than it either eludes his pursuit , or he is himself engulphed in that remorseless and relentless vortex , whither have been hurried so many bright spirits before him . '' 
I am conscious of the fact , however , so far as the mind is concerned ; for there is not a day of my life , and scarcely an hour , as you have seen , that I do not detect myself uttering some of his sentiments at second hand ; His mental superiority must have been greater than even I gave him credit for , as I can see the impress of his association even upon your own thoughts , as unconscious as you may be of it . '' 
`` I grant you that his influence over me was very great , not less than that which was swayed so powerfully over your own days of childhood . '' 
`` And should he even yet return , the fountain of your joys has already been poisoned . '' 
`` Why , he has been carried by the tide of this world far past those beautiful eddies in the stream , overhung with green leaves , and redolent of summer flowers . 
He has been tossed upon some of life 's stormiest billows , and if not actually wrecked and lost , he may be so weather-beaten and pelted by the contending elements , as to be , when he comes , like an ancient mariner , a better subject for repose and repentance , than for a fresh voyage . '' 
`` I know he was fashioned somewhat like other youths -- impetuous and rash , and perhaps ambitious , but no storms of the world , such as you describe , can ever leave indelible stains or sears upon him . 
He may be weather-beaten and worn , but he will be my own Frank for all that , and whatever he may be -- should even his tender conscience have suffered with the wear and tear almost inevitable in the dreadful conflicts of the thronged , and busy and turbulent world -- still let him be welcome ; for better , for worse , come weal , come woe , joy or sorrow , our destinies are linked forever -- throughout this life , and I trust a longer and a better hereafter . '' 
`` Well , Mr. Hall , '' said his Excellency as the Tutor entered , `` sit down here , and tell me all about this difficulty with Harry Lee and the ladies of my family . 
For once they seem to have sided with him , and of course are against you . '' 
Hall here related the whole of the conversation with Lee , word for word , as near as he could recollect it . 
While he progressed , the old veteran 's brow at first loured , but presently cleared away again , and by the time Hall , bad finished , he was laughing quite heartily . 
Dorothea wanted to know how the Sheriff could take Mr. Hall for borrowing his own money from Mr. Lee . 
`` Suppose your Excellency would read Lee 's version of the affair -- I see his seal upon the letter before you , '' said he . 
The Governer was reclining in his arm chair in an attitude almost of hopelessness , but when Ellen uttered her bold challenge of the truth of Lee 's statement , he sat bolt upright , as if his mind would seize upon the slightest pretext to reinstate his favorite . 
`` Why , what reason have you to doubt Harry Lee 's veracity , Miss Evylin ? '' 
said he . 
`` There may be some mistake , or Harry Lee may have been imposed upon , or his own feelings may have colored the matter too highly . '' 
When he has actually received a letter -- a foreign letter too -- with the European post mark , from his real cousin -- could his imagination make facts , stubborn facts , like these ? 
No , no -- either Hall is a consummate swindler and impostor , or Harry Lee is an outrageous liar -- one or other horn of the dilemma you must take . '' 
Not that he was a man to shrink from a task he had undertaken because of any displeasure of Harry Lee , on his own account ; he was anxious to make fair weather with him because of the Governor 's interests . 
`` Explain then to me , the mystery of the other Hall , you have doubtless heard that Mr. Lee has received an answer to his letter addressed to Mr. Hall , which he says , is the real one . '' 
She maintained openly , that there were no charges against him , except those brought by Harry Lee , and that she was ready at any time to lay as great ones at his own door , if necessary , and , consequently , that he was not an unimpeached witness . 
It was expected by the young ladies that something would turn up during the evening , by which Mr. Lee might understand , that Hall 's case was espoused by them , and that they intended to carry the war home to him if he continued his persecutions against their favorite . 
Lee was among the earliest arrivals , and it may be well imagined that his movements did not pass unnoticed by any of the parties just mentioned . 
His first demonstration however was in quite an unexpected quarter , on encountering Bernard Moore , soon after paying his respects to the Governor and his Lady , he treated him with the utmost hauteur and disdain . 
He passed on , after a cold and distant bow , a smile of derision playing about his mouth . 
Could he have seen Kate 's eyes flashing fire and indignation , as she witnessed the interview , he would have been truly flattered and pleased and , perhaps might have sought a renewal of the experiment , but he did not ; he passed on , and joined himself with more congenial spirits than Harry Lee , and soon forgot that young gentleman , amidst the animated discussion going on relative to the tramontane expedition . 
Not so with Kate , she followed with her eyes , the haughty young aristocrat 's movements wherever he went . 
Ellen Evylin was not present at the Levee , seeing which , Mr. Lee soon absented himself from the party , and bent his steps toward the Doctor 's house . 
He rejoiced in his own mind , that it was so ; for he now imagined , that he had placed the man who had interfered with his movements in such a light , that Ellen must feel nothing but gratitude towards him for his efforts in the cause . 
Such were his anticipations as he lifted the knocker of the Doctor 's door -- he was admitted . 
How delightfully fell the impress of all he saw upon the cold nature of Harry Lee ? 
How his intense selfishness warmed itself by the cosy fire blazing in the hearth ? 
The pictures that hung round the walls , too , delighted him , because they were many of them painted by a hand that he hoped to call his own . 
He stood before them in succession , and pleased himself to think , how the same gentle hand would sketch the glorious landscapes presented , in many aspects upon his own thousand acres . 
The sweet flowers , too , snugly stowed away from the rude September blasts , in a little glass conservatory , separated from the room in which he was , but by a single step . 
He walked out into the green artificial summer , the lights of the parlor windows threw their bright rays over and around , revealing a little aviary , high up among the green shrubbery . 
said Lee , advancing to meet him , `` still administering to the sufferings of the sick and the afflicted ? 
They are much purer in heart than we are , Mr. Lee , much more elevated in sentiment , more patient and hopeful in suffering , with a much livelier and realizing faith in the power and presence of an overruling Providence . 
`` I will not profess to misunderstand you in any particular , Mr. Lee , either with regard to the object of your late and present visit , or the occurrences at Temple Farm . 
Lee was immediately on his knees before her , and made an effort to seize her hand , but she rose up on the instant , and said , `` But not in that posture , Mr. Lee , it does not become the relations which henceforth we must bear to each other . 
He had again seated himself , as had the lady . 
`` Every thing Mr. Lee ! '' 
Ellen again became restive , she could no longer restrain herself , and she exclaimed pointedly : `` Mr. Lee , recollect yourself ! 
`` True , true , I had , '' replied he somewhat embarrassed , `` but my offence proceeded no farther ; nor was my suit prosecuted afterwards until I supposed your lacerated feelings had entirely recovered from the blow . 
`` Mr. Lee , '' said Ellen with a severe expression of countenance which he had never before witnessed , `` I must refresh your memory : I would not question your veracity , but I can not suffer you to go farther without convincing you that I am far better informed on this subject than you suppose me to be . 
Here she handed him Frank 's last letter , and continued . 
He took the letter with a trembling hand , and drawing the light towards him , commenced its perusal . 
His eye dilated as he did so , while the cold perspiration gathered upon his brow and lip , and his whole frame shook with ill concealed excitement . 
Before he had half finished , he turned it over and examined the superscription carefully -- he seemed reassured by it , and became rather more composed as he finished the remaining portion . 
`` It matters not , Mr. Lee , how I obtained it , it is sufficient for me , and for you too , I suppose , that it is genuine . 
`` Well then , I obtained it from one who had suffered alike with him -- from one who received it from his own hands -- from one whom you have treated in a manner very poorly calculated to recompense your brother 's last and dearest friend . '' 
`` I did receive it from Mr. Hall , but he is no impostor , Mr. Lee . '' 
`` He is the veriest impostor and swindler that breathes . 
He has assumed another man 's name , has swindled me , if not others , out of money -- and he has forged every word of that letter . 
`` Mr. Lee , I will not quarrel with you ; it would neither become my sex nor inclination to do so ; but I as firmly believe in the genuineness of that letter as in the truth and honor of its bearer , as I believe in my own existence . 
I tell you frankly , Mr. Lee , that I would not marry you , if there was not another man in her Majesty 's Colony . 
`` I am answered , '' -- taking his hat , and standing in the doorway -- `` I have only to bid you now a long farewell . 
Exit Mr. Lee . 
`` No , no , said Ellen , musingly , but bitterly , as she heard him slam the door , no one could suspect the gentle , amiable , forgiving Mr. Lee , of harboring revenge against any one . 
The old gentleman entered as his name passed her lips , having exchanged his spatterdashes for black silk stockings and gold buckles , and all the other corresponding articles of dress befitting his presence at the Levee , late as it was . 
`` And Ellen , '' he called out , as she left the room , what report shall I make to your young friends , they have doubtless missed Mr. Lee , from the saloon and will know full well his whereabouts . '' 
She came back again , threw her arms round his neck , as she said , beseechingly , `` Make no report at all dear father , however much you might be amused at Mr. Lee 's pompous absurdities , you can not exhibit him in a riduculous light without involving me too -- and I would like every thing connected with the affair which has terminated to night , forgotten forever . 
Let Harry Lee be to us , as if he had never been . 
I do not like to think of him , because I can not think well of him ; and , for the sake of one , whose memory is dear to me , the next thing is , not to think of him at all . 
I see the smile upon yourface has already given place to a tear , but let me kiss it away , and then a long adien to Mr. Harry Lee . 
General Clayton , who was sitting near , and hearing Lee 's name pronounced , and suspecting the cause of the Governor 's excitement , came up to the latter and told him , that Lee had left town some time before , he believed , in pursuit of some young man who had swindled him . 
Moore did go back to his place , very much disheartened however , by the untimely desertion of Lee , for he knew that the vote would be a very close one , and a single ayemight be of immense importance . 
Some stupid proser was concluding as he returned . 
He walked round among his friends and communicated the disheartening news . 
So that had Lee been at his post , the victory would have been gained by one vote . 
His absence was , however , not long a subject of regret , for the speaker gave the casting vote in favor of the measure . 
These regrets were far from being selfish ; she knew that he would have pressed forward with the young chivalry of Virginia , towards the high prize which was then firing the imaginations of all the youth of the colony . 
She knew that it was an enterprise exactly suited to his temperament and impetuous impulses ; and she could not but regret that his already disastrously spent energies had not been reserved for an occasion so well calculated to develope them with advantage to himself and benefit to his fellow creatures . 
She had so long interwoven every thought and feeling of her own with his , that it was impossible for her to mingle in any such exciting scenes as she had passed through , without placing him in her imagination as one of the actors . 
He saw that the sleeping traveller had vanished as well as the person whom he sought , but the circumstance made no impression , and he remarked not upon it -- apparently satisfied that his young protegee had discretion enough to keep out of sight of those by whom they were known . 
He remained in the shadow of one of the buildings , until he saw the two young men fairly seated at their rude supper , and then without any guide or conductor , entered what appeared to be one of the most remote and retired buildings of the establishment , and threw himself down upon some straw already spread upon the floor , and worn out with fatigue and exhaustion of mind and body , fell into one of those profound slumbers which only those know who inure their bodies to labor and fatigue . 
Among the others stood Harry Lee , gesticulating wildly , and his eye dilated with horror and astonishment . 
Immediately in the centre of the group lay the body of John Spotswood , wrapped up in the same cloak which he had borrowed from Lee the night before -LRB- having lent his own to Wingina -RRB- and perfectly dead . 
He had been killed by a single blow of a dagger driven through his heart , and sent with such force that the long formidable weapon -LRB- worn in those days by Indian fighters , -RRB- had actually penetrated the floor and pinioned him to the puncheons beneath . 
As if the attrocity of the deed was not sufficient , an attempt had been made to mutilate his person by a circular incision upon his crown . 
-LSB- 11 -RSB- Lee immediately ordered a guard posted at the entrance of the fort , and that , no one should be permitted to escape until he had investigated the matter , about which he immediately set to work . 
He found that the room had been occupied by two sleepers who had already escaped , and the woman had proceeded no farther in her description of the one who had lain next to the deceased , than the whiskers and the big scar , before Lee called to the orderly and commanded him to divide his corps into two bodies , and pursue the fugitive until he should find him , and bring him back , dead or alive . 
Lee was sorely puzzled to imagine who this could be , and Spotswood 's servant could give him no information , except that he had been picked up in the capital , just before they had set out , and that he had ridden with his master more as a companion than a servant . 
From this circumstance , some of those present were disposed to believe that the deceased had committed the rash act upon his own person , but this surmise was put entirely at rest , by the gash upon the head , as well as several distinct finger marks upon the throat , showing that whoever had perpetrated it ; had held his victim by a powerful grasp , to prevent noise while the blow was inflicted . 
Hall had deviated from the great military road to take a near cut by an Indian path , and thus his pursuers passed him . 
About ten o'clock in the morning he again emerged into the great thoroughfare , -LRB- if two wagon ruts through a pine forest could be called such -RRB- and was seated , with his bundle open before him , and helping himself to some cold provisions with which he was provided . 
He ate with great relish and a fine appetite , and seemed to be disturbed by naught under the sun . 
The drizzling clouds had blown away , and he looked forward to a cheerful and happy day , amidst the almost unexplored beauties of nature ; in one of her wildest and grandest phases . 
His spirit was buoyant with the idea that at last he had cast off the cares of civilized life and above all , that he had broken loose from those entangling meshes , either of designing men , or fortuitous circumstances , under which he had so long suffered . 
There was a shade of sadness over his face it is true , it could hardly be otherwise with one who had so lately and so severely suffered -- he was more cheerful , however , than at any former period when presented to the reader . 
When asked by Lee to explain the position in which he found himself , he sank into a seat and covered his face with his hands . 
He was bewildered and confounded . 
To the spectators , this looked exactly as they supposed he might ; it had a very natural appearance for a murderer , who , if not detected in the very act , was apprehended with the blood of his victim still upon his hands . 
Public opinion was fast gathering head against him -- eager gossips picked up the horrid details from the soldiers and negroes who accompanied the corpse , as the more respectable persons drawn thither by the crowd caught a few brief words and an ominous shake of the head or two from Harry Lee . 
The scene which there preseuted itself beggars description -- the news had preceded him , and the ladies of the mansion were already frantic with grief . 
His ears were saluted with the wild shrieks of despair , and the Governor was locked up in his room and would not see even him . 
Very few persons ventured to question his guilt -- indeed , the general opinion settled down at once , that Hall had killed young Spotswood , in mistake for Harry Lee ; there was very little room for surmise in the matter -- there was no one else to suspect -- no one else upon whom suspicion could fasten . 
Hall mused a moment , and then replied , `` No , no -- he could not be guilty of such a crime , he had no earthly motive . 
Had it been me , now , that was killed , I am not so sure that he would not be liable to suspicion '' -- hastily checking himself , he said , `` but no , it is too bad , I must do even him the justice to say , that he could not commit murder upon his enemy . '' 
Ellen 's beaming eye rewarded him for his magnanimous admission , as she said , `` you are right , Mr. Lee , with all his faults , is no murderer ; but think you he will be as generous towards you on the day of trial ? '' 
`` I know not , nor does it matter much -- luckily , neither my condemnation nor deliverance will come from him . 
`` But they say , he supposed it was Harry Lee , because poor John was wrapped up in his cloak . '' 
`` Recollect father , '' said she calling after him , `` that it is not enough merely to pronounce such a man not guilty , but he must be raised above suspicion ; and remember , too , that if it becomes necessary to show Harry Lee in his true character , I must be summoned . 
That the young gentleman in question , Henry Lee , Esq. , had lent the deceased his cloak , and that in the dark he had been murdered , in mistake for Mr. Lee ; that the prisoner had fled as soon as the dark deed had been perpetrated , and when apprehended , was making his way with the utmost expedition towards the frontier , and had actually left the military road and taken to the woods , until he supposed himself out of the reach of pursuit ; that upon his arrest , he had manifested unequivocal symptoms of guilt , and , moreover , that the blood of his victim was still reeking from his clothes and person . 
Hall exclaimed in a loud clear voice , `` Let him go on . 
That he was surprised to find that he was of the same name with a young relation of his in Scotland , to whom he had but recently written -- preceding his visit , that one morning he had expressed this surprise to the prisoner , when he immediately stated that he was the very man himself ; that he stated to the prisoner that he had written such letters , but he the prisoner , said he had never received them , which seemed reasonable , as there was scarcely time for those letters to have arrived out before the prisoner at the bar must have set sail : that he , -LRB- Lee , -RRB- was taken by surprise by the prisoner 's statement , but backed as he was by Governor Spotswood , had yielded to his ready assent ; that he had stated to the prisoner the fact , that he had fallen heir to a snug little property here , and that he , -LRB- Lee , -RRB- had surrendered into his hands part of the available funds of said estate , without any other voucher or guarantee than the prisoner 's note of hand -- that money however , had since been repaid by Mr. Bernard Moore . 
Did you , Mr. Lee , see anything wrong in the prisoner , until you discovered him to be your rival for the favor of a very estimable young lady , to whom it is generally understood you were paying your address ? 
-LSB- Lee curled his lips with high disdain , and at first seemed to think of declining a reply , but the counsel insisted upon an answer . -RSB- 
Was it , Mr. Lee , so much the prisoner 's forcing himself into the society of the ladies of the Governor 's immediate family , which gave you offence , as into that of the young lady before alluded to ? 
For the moment , Mr. Lee ! 
Were you not completely at his mercy , and did he not act with the greatest magnanimity towards you ? 
I was perhaps somewhat in his power ; but the matter was adjourned , not concluded . 
Lee was confounded -- he now sat near the Attorney-General , and consulted with him anxiously , -- he had supposed that McDonald would not hesitate , and that Hall would stand forth before all men , not only a convicted murderer , but one who had run a long career of deception and guilt . 
Indeed , he said there was more impelling motives urging Mr. Lee himself to the deed than him , not that be would insinuate so foul a charge against that gentleman -- he only pointed the minds of the jury to the possibilities of the case -- aye , and to the probabilities -- in order to show that the matter was still shrouded in the profoundest mystery -- that one of the persons in that room was as liable to have done it as another -- that no more probable motives for the diabolical deed had been traced to the prisoner than to any of the others . 
It is known that there was a deadly enmity existing between the prisoner and Mr. Lee -- they were rivals -- the former , whatever he was in reality , supposed to be the successful one . 
They meet in a dark room at a frontier settlement , the latter finds an opportunity of throwing the odium of the blackest offence known to our laws upon his rival . 
She stated that he was at first baffled by Spotswood 's having slept in Lee 's cloak , but that he was not long in ascertaining the one he sought ; which he had no sooner done , than he seized him by the throat and stabbed him at the same moment ; that he had also attempted to scalp him , but the convulsive efforts of his victim hurried them off . 
I am particularly anxious that you should be there , for I understand that Harry Lee intends to object to your name being enrolled among the young chivalry of the Colony . '' 
I grant you that I was a little shaken just now by your hesitation , but that is all over , and I will wait patiently , and in full faith until the time you name ; and by the by , when you and Harry come to hard words , do n't forget to throw into his teeth his shameful desertion from the House of Burgesses , when , for all he knew to the contrary , the whole enterprise hung upon his vote . '' 
`` Never fear , Sir , never fear , I will give him something harder to swallow than that ; but before this meeting takes place , I have a great favor to ask of you , it is that you will furnish me with a fleet horse and a trusty messenger , for a couple of hours . '' 
Lee exclaimed , when Hall resumed his seat , `` ah ! 
Harry Lee , after running the gauntlet of every trial , was excluded by two votes only , much to his chagrin and disappointment . 
It had nearly upset the whole scheme which he had so ingeniously concocted . 
The Tramontane order was now rapidly filling up its ranks , and nought further had occured to disturb the harmony of the meeting , until Hall rose from his secluded corner , and walked to the table of the Secretary , took up the pen to record his name . 
It was now incumbent on Lee to state his objections first , and make them good . 
He rose , and stated to the meeting that he had objected , through his friend , to the candidate , first , because of the general circumstances of mystery and suspicion which attached to him , and now pretty generally known throughout the Colony . 
This , he presumed , would be sufficient of itself , but he would not leave the matter even doubtful and , therefore , he would state his second objection to be , that he stood before the meeting under an assumed name , and that name adopted for dishonest and disreputable purposes . 
Thirdly , that he was an attainted rebel and an outlaw , with a price set upon his head . 
He repelled , indignantly , the first charge , inasmuch as most of the suspicions which had been engendered against him in the Colony , had been the coinage of his accuser 's own brain -- on that very day he had , by an evident interposition of an all-wise and overruling Providence , been triumphantly freed from the meshes of one of the most ingenious plots ever contrived to destroy an innocent man . 
Lee beckoned to some one in the gallery to come down , and for a few moments the whole assemblage were left in breathless suspense , for it had somehow been rumored that Lee was to confront Mr. Hall with the real personage whose name he had assumed . 
Here a deafening shout of applause shook the Capitol to its foundations , in the midst of which , both the spokesman , together with Harry Lee , were seen wildly gesticulating , but not a word could be heard for some moments from either . 
Frank stood forward , with a playful smile upon his countenance , and putting his hand deliberately to his head , in a single instant denuded it of its dark flowing locks , revealing at the same time a fine turned head , closely matted over with short light curls . 
Old Dr. Evylin rushed forward and seized his hand , but at the very same moment Ellen fell over into the arms of one of her female friends . 
Frank 's eye had hardly ever for a moment been entirely removed from her eager and agitated countenance , and quick as thought , he flew to where she had fallen , and bore her out of the crowd in his arms . 
So admirably , however , had Frank Lee -LRB- for we shall henceforth call him by his right name -RRB- mystified even his oldest and best friends , and so constantly had he worn his masquerading dress , and pertinaciously had he continued to carry out the delusion through trials and difficulties , that she was by no means certain that her suspicions as to his identity were correct . 
Nothing but this constantly harrassing doubt prevented her from sending for him at once and releasing him from his early engagement , which she had tortured herself with supposing , was now so embarrassing to him . 
And what sounded not less strange in his ears , she called him Mr. Lee . 
Now , it might have sounded strange to him , from the fact of his having so long suffered it to fall into disuse himself -- that was not the idea here , however -- there was a chilling and distant tone and manner in it , which he had never encountered but once , even as the poor adventurer Hall , and he was consequently taken all aback -- he had anticipated a very different reception , and was utterly at a loss to account for it . 
His failure to present himself after his acquittal , was the only thing which he could in his rapid review of his conduct surmise as the cause , and he commenced his protestations accordingly , but it was all met by a cold wave of the hand , and an earnest supplication to be conducted to her father 's carriage . 
Of course such an appeal , or rather demand , was not to be resisted , and he reluctantly escorted her to the carriage . 
Most wistfully did he gaze by the dim light to see if there was no relenting -- no hint or look implying a desire for his company in her solitary ride home , but there was none , and his pride coming to his relief , he closed the door with a hasty good night , and strutted off in high disdain . 
Frank gazed at him as if he had fallen from the moon , so completely had he forgotten his whereabouts . 
`` But how could her snubbing me in this fashion prevent Harry and me from coming to high words , perhaps blows ? '' 
`` Perhaps she caught a glimpse of him eaves-dropping ? '' 
It was just the reverse of what Frank had anticipated , but he proceeded on his course , none the less bent on clearing up the mystery from what he had just seen . 
He was destined to some farther experience in the matter , earlier than he expected ; for no sooner had he entered the hall of the Palace , than a servant presented him with a message from Miss Kate -- she desired to speak a few words with him . 
Frank was speechless with astonishment -- he seemed as if he would choke , so parched became his throat , and so vain his attempt at utterance . 
Kate seeing his pitiable condition , and that he still gazed at the things she held in her hand without taking them , and that his face was almost convulsed , so intense was the working of his troubled spirit , she handed him a chair , and begged him to be seated . 
His eyes were riveted upon the locket , the early memento of his youthful passion . 
What overwhelming recollections of days and joys gone by forever poured in upon his memory , with all their blended associations of sorrow and joy ; that picture , which he had not seen before that day , since he had plighted his faith , upon the occasion of its being given ? 
How vividly it brought back the bright morning of his youthful love -- those halcyon days that have but one dawn , one bright morning , ere they are closed over forever by a long , and dark , and bitter night . 
The long years which had intervened , with their sad and blighting experience and bitter memories , were rolled back , and he stood before the youthful beauty in his mental vision , as he stood before her with her hand clasped in his , as when he had presented her with that picture . 
Was it any wonder that he spoke not ? 
Frank Lee had perhaps came as near acting out and preserving the first freshness of his early romantic love , as is ever permitted to mortal man , but his self-condemnation , upon the return of that picture , knew no sophistry or deception . 
He stood abashed , in recollection of the bright purity and unwavering constancy of his mistress -- of these , he had indubitable evidence -- he was compelled , therefore , to make a hasty retrospect of his conduct towards her ; and though self-condemned in many respects , as we have said , for his life he could not divine in what he had offended towards the object of his early , undivided , and constant attachment , and he at length resolved to vindicate himself before his offended mistress . 
Scarcely was the resolution formed , ere he seized upon the package and the picture , and rushed from the house . 
As he passed out , he had nearly upset the Governor , who , with his party , were just returned from the Capitol . 
Frank scarcely knew that he had passed , much less been rude , to any one . 
He soon found himself knocking at the Doctor 's door . 
Frank , with the letters and the trinkets , like stolen goods , still in his hand . 
He made many efforts to speak , and nearly choked at the formality of calling her Miss Evylin , but at length burst through all embarrassments and restraint , and exclaimed , `` Ellen , will you , can you , tell me what all this means ? '' 
pointing to the things he held in his hand . 
She motioned him to be seated , and began , `` Mr. Lee ! '' 
But he held up his hand in a deprecating mood , and begged her , `` For God 's sake , no more of that -- I shall die upon it ! '' 
`` No , '' said he , hurriedly , and striding impatiently about the room , `` not another word will I listen to of the sort -- it is all an infamous falsehood , and the coinage of the same prolific brain which has devised so many disasters for me already . '' 
Frank was bewildered , he had stopped , and stood facing his partially appeased mistress . 
said he , `` for I know that Eugenia Elliot is incapable of falsehood or deception . '' 
He was wrapped in a deepstudy for a moment , and then striking his forehead and capering about the room like one wild , cried out , `` I have it ! 
Ellen was agitated , and began to think somewhat like the Governor , that his misfortunes had touched his brain , and she rose up from her seat , as if about to escape , but Frank caught her in his arms , and after imprinting sundry most extravagant kisses upon her forehead , cheeks and lips , seated her nolens volens . 
It is the real Henry Hall who is engaged to Eugenia Elliot ; fool that I was not to think of this , when that little Indian girl delivered the message , but of this you shall be certain within the half hour ; '' and he put on his hat and was hurrying out , but Ellen , with a sweet smile of forgiveness on her face , called him back . 
`` It needs not , Frank , '' said she , as he returned into the room , `` you see I have taken you at your word , and resumed those precious treasures of our childish days , '' and she held out her hand at the same time . 
It may be readily imagined that Frank was not satisfied with a mere shake of the hand , or even carrying it to his lips , but over that evening we dare not venture to intrude the stranger 's gaze . 
Frank had several times made an effort to tear himself away ; he was at last conscious that the night was far spent , but then the approaching departure on the morrow furnished an admirable excuse . 
`` Your father , too , '' said he , `` is still at the Governor 's , surely I may stay here as long as he stays there . '' 
The fact was , the old Doctor was long ago comfortably stowed in bed -- he had learned from the servant at the door that Mr. Lee was there , and supposing how the matter stood , very discreetly retired and left them to themselves . 
`` But , Frank , '' and she laid her hand imploringly upon his arm , '' your brother ! '' 
He bounded to his feet in an instant , and strode through the room , and sawed his arm vehemently in the air , as if he would dispel a disagreeable spectre which she had conjured up , she following all the while , and her countenance wholly changed from its late happy , placid expression to one of anxiety and distress . 
he at length exclaimed , `` how could you obtrude that hated name at such a time ? '' 
How different your present feelings from your noble and magnanimous defence of him while in prison ! '' 
`` No , no , Ellen , hate is too strong a word , or , at all events , I will only hate his actions , while I commiserate the man . '' 
Must I profess to love him , and clasp the monster to my heart , while my whole nature revolts at the hypocrisy ? '' 
not that either , but forgive him , Frank , and do him justice . '' 
`` Do him justice ! 
then I should become his executioner ; I should dye my hands in his blood ! '' 
Ellen shuddered at the ferocious expression of his countenance , which she had never seen before ; all formed for gentle emotions , as it seemed to her , and ever ready to melt at a tale of sorrow and distress . 
Seeing which , he approached already softened and repentant . 
She returned his ardent and steady gaze for some moments , and then laying her hand affectionately in his , she said steadily and firmly , `` Yes ! '' 
He let her hand drop , as he said , `` Now , Ellen , I in my turn am disappointed . 
`` And so I do , Frank , and have said already -- how often , I am ashamed to say , that I will be yours ` for better for worse ' when you return , but -- '' `` Oh stop there , Ellen , and let me go now , let me depart to-morrow with those sweet words still ringing in my ears , '' and he imprinted a kiss upon her lips , and broke away . 
An hour afterwards he returned , and gazed upon the now black and dreary looking house , wrapped in profound darkness . 
Well was it that he did so -- most providential was the prompting that led him to that spot at such a late hour of the night , or rather morning ; for he had not stood there many moments ere he saw a light spring up in a wing of the Doctor 's house , the lower part of which was the old physician 's office , and the upper scarcely ever used . 
It appeared that the horsemen , whose retreating figures Frank Lee had really seen , were those of a party of the dare devils headed by Chunoluskee -- that he bore his sister on the horse before him , and that they had dashed through the line of sentinels without sustaining any material damage , though repeatedly fired at . 
Frank would have ridden , perhaps , till day-light , and never perceived that his companions had halted , had they not shouted after him . 
Frank was at the Doctor 's house , and his new attendant sat astride of his rugged little pony at the wicket gate , holding Frank 's horse , and cracking his rough jokes upon his acquaintances that passed . 
Whether he was aware of the ugly stories circulated through the town , to the great discredit of her good name , we shall not undertake to say , nor to speculate upon his probable course , should it appear that he was fully aware of the whole scandal ; sufficient for our purpose to state , that he was fully determined to follow the `` bloody varmints '' to the end of the world . 
He had heard of Frank 's late perils and adventures , and at once taken a fancy to him ; it was fully reciprocated by his more accomplished friend , which will account for the present position of the parties . 
Frank told him when he jumped off his horse and threw him the reins , that he would be gone just five minutes . 
He had already been absent an hour , and Joe having exhausted his jokes , was becoming rather impatient . 
A smile broke over her sunny face , as she perceived Frank shaking his finger threateningly at her . 
Kate waved her hand in adien , and putting whip to her horse , cantered off on her way , calling out after him , over her shoulder , `` Filial tears , filial tears , Mr. Lee . '' 
They had not travelled many miles through the wild and solitary forest , before Joe dismounted from his tackey , and handing the bundle to Frank , motioned with his hand for him to pause , and be silent . 
He moved stealthily through the bushes , examining his priming as he went , until he entirely disappeared from sight . 
In about fifteen minutes Frank heard the report of his gun , and as it appeared to him , but an instant after , a fine herd of deer came leaping over the tops of the bushes , and almost within pistol shot of where he sat upon his horse , his gun being unfortunately slung to his back . 
While he made a movement to bring it around , they all stopped and stared at him for a moment , and then bounded away like the wind . 
`` Now , '' said he , `` you see the reason why I alway carry my gun in my hand . 
Frank immediately unstrapped his firelock , and wound up the leather straps and put them by , as if to show his teacher that he was determined to improve by his practical lessons . 
He told him that more of the ruffle shirt gentry , as he loved to call them , would unsling their arms , before they had proceeded many days into the wilderness . 
Frank observed that Joe 's attention was carnestly directed to each side of the path on which they were travelling , notwithstanding his constant stream of talk , and stopping every minute to blaze a tree . 
He saw that Jarvis stooped down and examined the bushes attentively every now and then , and when they came to the ford of the little stream upon whose banks they had been some travelling , Joe laid his hand upon the other 's bridle rein , and then stooped down , and most attentively scanned some tracks of horses ' hoofs , left in the soft mud of the opposite bank , and then carefully counted them . 
Frank asked him what was the meaning of all this , and if he had fallen upon the Indian trail ? 
This was a poser to Joe , and he scratched the debatable ground unmercifully for an answer , but nothing could be got out of it ; seeing which , Frank gently led him back to the point from which he had digressed , his love for Wingina , or rather his passion . 
Frank turned away his head to indulge in a suppressed laugh ere he answered . 
He unslung the deer from his poney 's back , slipped the head stall over his neck , and turned him loose to graze among the bushes -- advising Frank to do the same with his , showing him , at the same time , how to fix the halter , so as to impede his more impatient temper . 
These arrangements being completed , he carefully examined the priming of his gun , and set it against a tree , within the reach of his hand , and then took a wallet , which he had removed from behind his saddle , and spread a cold collation before Frank ; not a tempting one , it is true , to a dainty appetite , but substantial and tempting enough , to one who had been on horseback from early morning . 
Drawing a long breath and smacking his lips , he said , `` Every drop of this here liquor mought be sold for all the gold lace in the Governor 's troop , afore we 're among the mountains a week , and you , Squire , will not refuse it , when we come this near home again . '' 
But I 'm not talking of the blood , I 'll show you what I 'm driving at '' -- and with that he gave a whistle , and his pony came trotting through the bushes and ate a piece of corn bread from his hand . 
After conversing upon these matters for an hour or two , Joe caught the horses and slung his buck over the pony , and then saddled and readjusted the bridle of Frank 's , ready for him to mount . 
The latter asked him why he prepared to resume their journey before the troops came up . 
Lee had called the attention of Moore to this effort of the old banjo-player , because he was evidently the hero of his story . 
He was celebrating his love for Miss Kate , and bemoaning the separation . 
Frank took it down , and examining it carefully , discovered a name which it thrilled his heart to meet in that strange wild place . 
He went off with Frank , however , telling him that they would see what this fighting Indians on a grand parade , would come to . 
Having left Joe to pursue his vocation , Frank folded up the handkerchief which had been discovered , and put it near his heart . 
The sight of that name and that handwriting , called up vividly the image of her who had so long engrossed his most ardent affections . 
He thought over all that she had said and done since his landing at York , and his early attachment drew new strength from the approbation which his maturer judgment stamped upon his youthful fancy . 
He was experienced enough in life to know that this very seldom happens -- that the `` sweet hearts '' of beyish days seldom stand the test of man 's matured examination . 
His fortune was ample , and his ambition , chastened as it was in the school of adversity , threw no impediments in the way . 
Had he been poor and friendless , it can not be doubted that his decision would have been the same . 
He strolled at length into his tent , which he found empty , and taking out his writing tackle and spreading them upon a rude camp seat , sat himself down upon the ground to communo with his affianced wife after the following manner : Camp Chick-a-hominy I again resume my sweet correspondence with you , after an interval it seems to me of an age : computed by what I have -LRB- may I not say we have -RRB- suffered . 
Joe Jarvis was stooping over him , examining the wound most critically ; he looked up when he saw the officers approaching and laying his finger upon the wound , said to Frank , `` Did ` nt I tell the Governor that the varmints were not far off ; he 's warm yit , its been done since the rain ; '' and away he started through the woods to examine the trail . 
Hall would have lingered on among the tenantless wigwams of the deserted village , but his friend Lee almost forced him upon his horse . 
although encamped in a beautiful country , and general joy and hiliarity pervaded the camp , he sat in one corner of his tent , and leaned his head upon his hands in the most listless attitude imaginable . 
He took no notice of the entrance and departure of any one , and really performed the routine of his military duties in such a dead and alive manner , that Frank had to apply to the Governor to have him invalided . 
So deeply absorbed was he with his brooding sorrow that he scarcely noticed this change . 
Though cards and wine and songs and revelry resounded all around him , and made the old woods merry again with the dissipation and the wild mirth of the mad young cavaliers , it passed all unheeded by poor Hall . 
`` Oh , that 's his business , so here goes '' Frank stood for a few moments on the eve of his departure , and laughed immoderately at the awful faces which Joe made , as he turned his pen in its travail . 
Frank departed accordingly , dragging poor Hall with him , and leaving Joe already bathed in a profuse perspiration . 
Lee , with many others of the young officers had , by this time , gathered around , and the former ordered the young rascal to be released from his agonizing position , which he was increasing every moment , by his vain efforts to work himself loose . 
He was but lately a servant near the person of Harry Lee . 
Every one from the capital knew him at once . 
exclaimed he also ; but in a moment after , a dark suspicion seemed to cross his mind , and he turned to one side and led Frank by the arm a few yardsdistant , and then they talked and gesticulated with great earnestness for a quarter of an hour , when they resumed their walk towards head quarters , Frank expostulating and the Governor insisting upon some measure which he had proposed . 
`` No privacy on my account your Excellency -- tuck him up now , and learn the extent of the treachery at once ; it may be important to the success of our expedition . '' 
`` I 'll tell you how it was your Excellency -- when I tuck yon young varmint in the steel trap , -LRB- here he had to stop and indulge in one of his heart-some chuckles , -RRB- when I tuck the varmint in the trap , '' he was compelled to give way in a loud guffaw . 
Saying which he walked up to the wagon where the guard held the young rogue a close prisoner , and taking him by the throat led him into the presence of the old chief . 
Frank Lee , to know if he was really angry . 
The Governor did not proceed far , before he stopped and called Nat . 
The same dark suspicions crossed Moore 's thoughts as he was thus forcibly reminded who Cæsar 's master was , and of all the other suspicious circumstances of the case , and knowing Carter 's friendship for Harry Lee , and not wishing to provoke a quarrel by giving utterance to them , he changed the subject , and they soon after separated for the night . 
As soon as Frank heard the exclamations of surprise from those who knew the negro , he at once drew back in the crowd , and did not again present himself before him , until complete quiet was restored in the camp . 
Then he sought the solitary quarters of his father 's old servant , and it may readily be imagined that it was a painful meeting on both sides . 
Frank had not seen Cæsar before , since he left College , and the first sight of such a living memento of by-gone years , would under any circumstances call up painful reflections , but when he thought of the old negro 's equivocal position , and the suspicion which others entertained as well as himself , that he was not there of his own accord , he could have wept over the deep degradation and mortification of the African . 
Frank , on his part , was in fully as painful a position towards the old servant -- he felt for him , on account of the considerations before mentioned , but he could not accept the negro 's atonement , through the inculpation of his only brother . 
Frank returned at once to write the promised letter , for it may be readily imagined that he felt little disposed to sleep . 
While Lee thus communed with his father 's once faithful servant , and afterwards with his brother in writing , the Governor held a very different dialogue with the other captive . 
As Frank Lee walked away in melancholy reverie from this disgusting sight , his footsteps were followed by the scout , whom he heard muttering every now and then , `` I 'm glad of it ! 
Lee wheeled upon him , almost fiercely , and demanded what there was to rejoice him in such a sight ? 
In that light he knew her conduct would appear to Lee , to whom he had confidentially communicated her gracious answer to his proposal . 
Accordingly , he renewed the attack pertinaciously and with some warmth . 
Moore rose to leave the tent in anger , but Lee begged him to stay a moment . 
`` Gentlemen , '' said he , `` remember your positions , and think well of whom you are about to quarrel -- no less than the daughter of our commander . 
Truth to say , he liked not the source from which it came . 
At the same time he directed pine torches to be kindled and held aloft as a guide to the poor stragglers . 
Lee and his friends pursued their backward route for some miles and until the soldiers with their lame horses were becoming few and far between , and yet no tidings were heard of poor old June . 
He had not been seen since the noon meal , and the last straggler declared that he had not heard a single voice in his rear . 
The latter drew his pistol upon the instant , and placed himself so as to be ready for action , but presently his ear caught a well known sound , which induced him to return his weapon to its holster , while he could scarcely suppress a laugh , so strange did old June 's voice and banjo sound in the still and solitary forest . 
All my friends I lebe behind me -- Ben , Harry , Bill and old aunt Dinah , Maum , Mary and te Sarah child , And my young misses , I blige to lebe you -- Way down in Old Beginny . 
Lee , who had been in consultation with his staunch friend and counsellor Jarvis , stated that the latter had predicted this very state of things in his hearing , and he attributed it entirely to the want of shoes upon their horses ' feet , to protect them from the pebbles and small stones , which made them sore by the constant wear and friction of travel . 
As the Chairman -LRB- Frank Lee -RRB- resumed his seat , he discovered the scout leaning against a tree near , with his bare and brawny arms folded , while they , as well as his face , were black with the smoke of his smithy , which he had just deserted for the sounds of merriment in his near neighborhood . 
Lee led him forward , and placed a flagon of undiluted spirits in his hand , which he would have quaffed without much preface , but that many youths gathered around him , and sang out for a toast . 
Was I not right , Frank , in giving him this assurance , and will you not doubly assure him , when you come back ? 
`` How can you make any such promise , my child , '' he asked , `` when you have given your whole heart and soul to another ? '' 
Little did he remember , Frank , that those very inanimate objects had so long been telling me a sweet tale of my own , but I disturbed not his hallowed memories . 
He will write to Kate I know -- indeed , I suppose his letters -LRB- with your own -RRB- are already on the way -- but you can very well imagine what a lover 's first epistle will be , or what they generally are , always excepting yours , dear Frank . 
Now , could you not open his eyes ? 
-- above all , could you not guard him against falling an easy prey to Mr. Carter 's designs , if any such he has ? 
Appalling as the salutation had been , the young cavaliers stood lost in admiration at the grand and novel sight , which now saluted their wondering eyes , until roused from their dangerous trance , by the loud and commanding voice of Lee , who was already on horse-back , and calling his comrades to arm , by the command of the Governor . 
When he had drawn them sufficiently away from their dangerous propinquity to the base of the mountains , and while they were speedily mounting , a thought occurred to him , which was productive of the happiest results . 
He had ordered the camp fires extinguished , but suddenly countermanded the order and directed them to be furnished with fresh fuel , while he galloped off , to communicate his scheme to the Governor . 
He found the veteran already in the saddle , and eager for the contest , which he supposed about to ensue . 
His first order was to remove the tents and horses away from the base of the mountain , and out of reach of the new sort of artillery with which they were threatened . 
He expressed his belief that such a force , might ascend on foot , before daylight , and either get above them , or hold them in check , while the main body ascended more leisurely with the baggage . 
By the time that Lee had received his commander 's parting orders , the whole of the adventurous band was drawn up immediately in front of the latter 's quarters . 
Often and often did Lee and his inseparable companion , the scout , seat themselves upon some flat rock , or piece of table land , and wait for their wearied and straggling companions . 
Jarvis took up his station at this tree , and here also Lee followed him with many others , when they arrived at the same level . 
The scout now addressed him in one of the abosiginal languages and ordered him down , but he either would not or could not understand , more probably , the latter . 
Well , here 's talk I reckon 's as good Shawnese as 't is English , '' and with that he unslung an axe from his back and commenced cutting down the tree . 
He had not made a dozen strokes , however , before the savage commenced sliding down like a bear . 
It was , therefore , necessary for Lee and his party to make a detour still farther round this table land , in order to be above the Indians , as agreed upon with the old chief . 
As soon as Lee discovered the exact position of the enemy 's encampment he had despatched a trusty messenger to the Governor , informing him of every important particular . 
By the time , therefore , that Lee 's messenger overtook him , he had already called a halt , and was detailing a small party to return with the horses , mules and baggage , back to their late encampment . 
He was delighted to hear of the admirable manner in which his youthful adjunct had thus far conducted his secret and dangerous adventure , and not less so to hear of the exact position of the enemy . 
This last information enabled him to lay down his own route definitely . 
He determined to abandon the path entirely , and to strike higher up the mountain , still winding round it , so as to avoid the point , where the savages were hurling their new and formidable artillery . 
Lee and a large part of his force had swept down the mountain side with such impetuousity , that they were borne far past the table land , on which the general battle raged -- carrying with them an equal number of the enemy . 
As Lee and his party returned from the pursuit , most of his men were ordered by him to the assistance of the wounded -- in many instances , four or five being required to carry one man up the steep activity . 
`` I do not know , Sir , but Lee says that he fought like a lion , and behaved in every way in the most prudent as well as gallant manner . '' 
`` Then bring him here , with the scout . '' 
Once or twice she turned her head partially around and caught glimpses , first , of the grim warriors around , and next of the fearful pile in the course of construction , and then she would bury her head in his bosom as if she would seek protection there , exclaiming in agonized sobs , `` Oh Harry , your efforts to save me have destroyed you -- they are going to put you to the torture . 
I reckon she wants for to come for to go to marry Mr. Lee , or Mr. Moore , or Mr. Hall , at the very least . '' 
Lee , looked pale and wan , but his eye was bright , his countenance cheerful , and his spirits elastic as ever . 
This remark of the Scout induced Lee to cast his eye over his own outward man , and to remove his now slouched -LRB- instead of cocked -RRB- hat from his head . 
Lee stood by , and any one , -LRB- if not by his dress , at least by his bright face , -RRB- might have told that he was thehappy man . 
Lee brought the old gentleman 's cocked hat , and handed him his gloves , and assisted him in wrapping up his feeble frame in a fur-lined cloak , after which all three entered the carriage and drove to the church . 
Lee looked over his shoulder and discovered Jarvis screwed up into one corner near the organ , and making a feint with his coon-skin cap , as much as to say that he would wave it over his head and shout if he dared . 
Lee placed his finger on his lip to enjoin silence , which the scout answered by placing his hand over his mouth . 
