I could not practice in any of the courts until I was twenty-one years of age ; and , as I lacked several years of the prescribed figure , and was becoming very impatient to be doing something more than merely earning my victuals and clothes , I wrote a letter to my brother Joseph , whose lot had cast him into the then wilderness of Missouri , and who was now getting a very good salary in a store , in the main village on the river , stating the particulars of my condition , and my anxiety to do something for myself , and for the benefit of our aged and indigent parents . 
In due course of mail , -LRB- which was more tedious then than now , -RRB- my brother Joseph 's answer came to hand . 
He advised me by all means to join him in Missouri , and stated that his generous employer had been so well pleased with his conduct , that he designed sending him , with a branch of his establishment , to a new town about to be erected farther up the river , and for his services was to give him one-half of the profits . 
He said he would need a clerk ; and that I , no doubt , would answer his purpose . 
He enclosed me fifty dollars to defray my expenses thither , which were to be repaid out of my salary . 
My salary was to be one hundred and twenty dollars the first year , besides my board -- to be increased the next ; and he had no doubt I would , in the course of a very few years , obtain an interest in some one of the numerous establishments then springing up in all directions . 
I consulted my preceptor , who neither advised me to go nor persuaded me to stay ; he was a conscientious and upright man ; he acknowledged his inability to decide which would be the best course for me to pursue ; and so he referred me to the counsel of my parents . 
Joseph was the pioneer of the family , and Providence seemed to crown his efforts with success . 
While I was building castles in the air , he had already amassed enough money to purchase our aged parents a substantial and comfortable dwelling in the village . 
And he was now about to begin business for himself , with a fair prospect of earning as many hard dollars in reality , as the imaginary ones I had been dreaming about . 
change!No one had a greater facility of abandoning old schemes , and launching his ideas in new channels , than myself . 
One of the partners in the establishment , which was to send a branch up the river under the charge of my brother Joseph , was daily expected to arrive on his return with the goods from Philadelphia . 
Letters had been received from him , announcing his arrival at St. Louis , a few days after my departure from that port . 
He stated that he would come up the river with his goods on the steamboat Ioway , which would be ready to start about the first of April , and might be looked for at Franklin , by the 15th . 
By the time I had procured three or four wagons with ox teams to haul the goods up the hill , the boat had landed , having our goods on board sure enough , and my brother Joseph , also . 
The stillness which brooded over the scene , threw but a momentary shade of melancholy over Joseph , as he was less susceptible of poetical influences than myself . 
His mind was more inclined to dive into the chances of the future , than to dwell upon the past ; and I found all my romantic meditations suddenly put to flight by the following inquiry : `` Luke , how much do you say we will sell to-morrow ? '' 
`` That is your belief , '' said he , smiling ; `` now I will make a guess . 
`` I was just about to speak on that subject , '' said he ; `` and it is one of the most difficult parts of the business to manage adroitly . 
My movement awoke Joseph , who sat upright in amazement , and demanded the cause of my strange conduct . 
I told him that there were serpents under the floor , the house not being underpinned ; that I was sure I had heard them moving about under the place where I had been lying ; and that there was nothing to prevent them from entering the room through the ample crevices in the floor . 
Joseph reproached me with silly dreaming ; but at the same time he rose slowly from his position , and looked cautiously around him . 
He then followed my example , and placed his pallet on the counter . 
My head was just under the window , and his in the opposite direction . 
inquired Joseph , lifting his head in the profound darkness that reigned around -- I supposed that to be his attitude from the elevation of his voice . 
I merely rolled off the counter , but did not hurt myself , '' said I. `` Why , Luke , '' replied he , `` the counter is thirty inches wide . 
I had contrived to turn entirely round , like one on a pivot , and had been lying with my head in the immediate vicinity of Joseph 's feet , which had occasionally produced the motion and the low sound that my keen ears had detected . 
I made a frank confession of my case to Joseph , who laughed heartily at my imaginary perils . 
Joseph desired to see my first essay as a salesman , and so he put me forward to wait on the ladies . 
Joseph then instructed me always to tear off the calico . 
Upon perceiving my mishap , Joseph interposed and arrested my career . 
He should have done it sooner ; for upon examination , it was found that I had cut seven yards for one of the calico dresses , and only five for the other . 
As I cut off the goods , Joseph noted them down ; but when the party departed , they did not ask for the bill . 
Joseph took out a chair and assisted Mrs. Middletown to alight from her horse , while I attempted to follow his example in assisting the daughter . 
`` I think you 'll say so , too , '' replied Joseph , `` when I tell you the prices . '' 
`` Let us see , then , '' he continued ; `` what is the price of that blue gingham ? '' 
`` Fifty cents a yard , '' replied Joseph , handing it down . 
said he , examining the goods . 
In truth the creditprice of the article was fifty-six and a quarter cents , it having cost thirty cents ; but Joseph knew his man , and had resolved to make a good impression at the start . 
The dress was sold , measured and cut off by Joseph , who waited upon the old folks , while I attended to the daughter . 
I noticed that when either of the ladies made a purchase , the old man 's eyes were sure to be upon Joseph and myself alternately ; and so , when I was measuring the lace very carefully , that no farther blunder should be committed by me that day , he turned abruptly towards me , and asked , `` Where are your thumbs ? '' 
`` There they are , '' said I , after some surprise and hesitation , looking first at him and then at the members named . 
he continued , with a grave countenance . 
Joseph grew angry , and told him he could not keep the goods without paying twenty cents for every yard it contained . 
He said he would . 
Joseph , understanding that Mr. Brass , a constable , was over at Mr. White 's house , went thither in quest of him . 
When Joseph returned , -LRB- who did not find the officer he went in quest of , -RRB- and learned that the man had endeavored to take my life with an axe -- I , a mere stripling -- it was with difficulty he could be restrained from administering additional punishment to that I had given him . 
Joseph was always ready to resent an affront , and with a perfect recklessness as to the consequences to himself . 
Joseph added up the items charged on the books , while I counted the cash . 
As the mercury rose , my brother Joseph 's spirits fell . 
His was an active mind , and was rarely occupied with more than one of two subjects , business and love , alternately -- and indeed he paid his addresses to his lady like a man of business , rather than a romantic Orlando . 
For hours , each day and night , after the expiration of the first two months , which was in effect the expiration of the business season , Joseph was employed in laborious mathematical calculations , endeavoring to solve the problem in advance , viz. , the net profits of the first year 's business . 
More than once , he had succeeded in demonstrating a most desirable result , when , unfortunately , the discovery of an error in his additions or multiplications , plunged him into a fit of vexation and despondency . 
He could not sit with folded hands and await the time of reckoning . 
His vigorous and restless mind had to be kept in constant exercise . 
Once or twice , it is true , he made an effort to dismiss his business anxieties from his teeming head , and sat down to play drafts with me . 
I could always beat him . 
I could concentrate all my faculties on the game ; while his thoughts ever and anon wandered back to his business . 
This mortified him exceedingly , and was a source of fretfulness to his impatient temper . 
He was ambitious , and liked to excel in everything he undertook . 
At times , he would toss the board aside , and seize a book from the shelf , -LRB- western merchants always keep a limited assortment of books , as Messrs. G. E. & Co. can testify , -RRB- and for the space of fifteen minutes , would seem to be perfectly oblivious of everything around him . 
One day my idle curiosity led me to watch the direction of his eyes , as he held a book before his face . 
Thus he remained several minutes , when he took a pencil from his pocket and began to cover the margin with his figures . 
`` Joseph , '' said I , interrupting him , `` you 'll spoil that book ; here 's a bit of paper , if you wish to make more calculations . '' 
`` Then , Joseph , why do n't you go and pass your leisure time with her ? 
`` No , '' said he ; `` I am resolved not to marry before the end of the year -- and as it will depend in a great measure upon the success of this establishment , whether it can take place even then , you see at once the cause of my anxiety , and the reason why I am ` always figuring , ' as you term it . 
`` I am not quite sure of that , '' said he , musing . 
There is only one way to get at the true result thus far -- '' `` You know , Joseph , '' said I , interrupting him , for I anticipated the onerous undertaking he was about to propose , and wished to avert it -- `` the amount we have sold -- fifteen hundred dollars on credit , and twelve hundred dollars cash -- twenty-seven hundred dollars altogether . 
`` We might , in that way , arrive nigh the true result , '' said he ; `` but still it would be guessing . 
Joseph was now busy again , and his features were once more animated and cheerful . 
This was satisfactory to Joseph . 
The debts were not due , or Joseph would have sent me out to demand payment . 
This he could not do , and so I defied his restless mind and inventive genius to devise any more unnecessary labor for me . 
There was nothing left for Joseph to do , now , but to visit his lady-love , which he did . 
Unlike Joseph , it required no painful effort for me to dismiss the cares of business from my mind . 
Joseph protracted his visit several weeks , and in the meantime I managed to amuse myself during his absence . 
Joseph was delighted with his success ; but his restless mind was ever on the wing . 
Although his ambition impelled him to resolve to be the pioneer , the leader , the most successful member of the family , yet he was desirous that the rest of us should follow in his footsteps , at a respectful distance behind . 
I felt Joseph 's rebuke , and assented to its justness . 
He had more than once detected my reluctance to attend to some of the minor details of the business . 
`` In a very small way , '' said he ; `` but if you think it too small , you can let it alone . 
he asked . 
`` It is not that , Luke , '' said he ; `` I have too much pride myself -- no , not pride , if such a thing were necessary and not morally wrong -- but sense of propriety , to propose that . 
Iwill engage in it myself , '' he continued , as he perceived something like a sneer in my manner . 
`` You ca n'tlose , '' replied he , firmly . 
I now caught at the idea with eagerness , and began to calculate rather too fast for Joseph . 
Joseph was pleased at this evidence of my penetration , but objected positively to the arrangement , reminding me that in truth , the capital I was to operate on , was not my own , as I owed it all to him -- and furthermore , that the moderate profit alluded to , was only intended to be applied to articles for my own use . 
The store smelt like a hatter 's shop , and Joseph sometimes evinced his displeasure at the odor . 
I had gone the full extent of his limits , and in the event of my failure in business , he began to see that the firm of J. Shortfield & Co. might be involved in my fall . 
To say nothing of the `` oleaginous '' particles on the flesh side of the skins , I discovered with alarm that the moths had begun to play havoc with the other side -- and Joseph feared that they might play havoc with the cloths . 
But Joseph positively forbade it . 
Joseph received it , he having gone down to the landing while I remained at the store waiting on some customers . 
When he returned , I saw that his eyes sparkled , and knew that he had good news for me . 
said he , holding the open letter in his hand . 
`` One hundred dollars , at a venture , '' said I. `` You have done better than that , '' said he , placing the letter in my hand . 
I could not afford to give the prices the people now asked ; and Joseph did not suggest any other speculation for me . 
In truth , it was ascertained that my speculations `` on my own hook '' were occupying too much of my attention , and threatened to be detrimental to the interest of my employers ; and so Joseph did not exhibit much sorrow in my behalf on account of this disappointment . 
After making out the bills , which I found to be a most tedious labor , Joseph mounted me on a horse and started me into the interior . 
He urged me to be diligent , stating that upon my success depended in a great measure his future welfare and mine . 
He said that if the establishment could realize the amount of money that the first importation of goods had cost in Philadelphia , his partners would permit him to go east in the winter , and purchase his next stock himself . 
But by way of securing my personal safety , as I alleged , though in reality to promote my amusement , by mingling sport with business , I insisted on carrying my rifle with me , which Joseph reluctantly permitted . 
My brother Joseph was much pleased with the result of my collections , which amounted to a considerable sum . 
This amount , added to what he had taken in the store during my absence , would suffice to discharge all his liabilities in the east . 
About the middle of winter , I received a letter from Joseph , dated at Philadelphia , informing me that he had made a proposition to his partners to purchase their interest in the store at Pike Bluff , and had just received their reply , accepting his offer . 
As the goods had all been bought in the first place on credit , and had paid for themselves under his management , of course his partners -LRB- who were men of means , and deservedly enjoyed good credit -RRB- , had not been under the necessity of employing any actual capital in the concern ; and consequently the only real interest they now had in it was their share of the profits , some fifteen hundred or two thousand dollars . 
This amount Joseph stipulated to pay them in one or two years ; and henceforward he was the sole proprietor of the establishment . 
He made a full and candid statement of his affairs to the jobbers in Philadelphia , which was corroborated in every particular by letters from his late partners . 
The Philadelphia merchants were quick to perceive his remarkable qualifications for business . 
They were pleased with his address , and frankness of expression . 
They were assured of his honesty -- and were satisfied . 
Joseph 's new stock amounted to about seven thousand dollars ; it was well selected , and the goods were all bought at the lowest `` time prices . '' 
He made his bills principally in houses of long standing , of established character , and ample capital , so that no impositions had been practiced on him . 
By the fifteenth of April , Joseph arrived at home with his goods . 
The business , it was true , had been dull during his absence ; nevertheless , I had accumulated more means , from collections and cash sales , than he anticipated . 
He expressed his satisfaction at my conduct , and hinted something about giving me an opportunity of doing better for myself than the mere realization of an inconsiderable salary . 
From my speculations and savings , I already possessed five hundred dollars , which was more than he had when he commenced business twelve months before . 
But his first business on hand to be transacted , was his marriage ; no farther obstacles now stood in the way , and he was not the one , in his present circumstances , to `` ask an extension of time . '' 
My complaints and expostulations had no effect on Joseph ; nothing could restrain him . 
He saw me hammered almost to death , but only mocked at my calamity . 
On he spurred , and I had to keep up with him . 
At length he came to a brook , which had overflowed its banks by reason of the recent heavy rains , and his horse manifested much reluctance to plunge into the current . 
He feared the horse , a borrowed one , -LRB- `` Old Whitey '' having been disabled by an accident , -RRB- could not swim well , if at all , and he did not wish to wet his fine clothes . 
`` Luke , '' said he , `` your horse I know to be a good swimmer , for I have heard his owner say so ; you must let me have him to cross this water . '' 
`` Come , come , dismount , '' said he , alighting . 
I mounted his horse , and he mine . 
He then plunged into the whirling stream without difficulty , and I flounced after him , by dint of much spurring and other means of coercion . 
His horse swam as smoothly as a boat , with his back above water . 
Joseph placed his knees on the saddle , and went through without wetting a thread of his garments . 
When his hind feet touched the bottom , I embraced his neck with my knees ; but when he made a plunge forward , I had to spring back a few feet . 
It was by means of this rocking , hobby-horse process that we got through ; and when he made his last spring , I came off behind , holding on to his tail , and standing up to my knees in the water , for we had then reached the opposite side . 
Joseph had turned round , and was laughing at me . 
`` Luke , '' said he , `` where did you learn that fore and aft kind of riding ? '' 
`` No , you may keep him , '' said he , as he perceived the seat of the saddle had been thoroughly immersed . 
But Joseph did not bear his infliction without pronouncing a few hasty anathemas . 
Joseph and his bride were soon quietly settled at Mr. White 's . 
The fact that we had realized a handsome profit , became pretty generally known , -LRB- as such facts are always sure to be , -RRB- and the amount was enormously magnified , -LRB- for the reports of good fortune are ever exaggerated , -RRB- so that Joseph was doomed to have competition . 
This made Joseph uneasy . 
His restless , monopolizing spirit could ill brook a disappointment . 
But there was no possible way to prevent other men from selling goods in his vicinity , if they saw proper to do so , and he had to suppress his rather unreasonable dissatisfaction and displeasure . 
A hostile course would beget sympathy in favor of his competitor , and he considered every dollar 's worth sold by his rival as so much abstracted from his sales . 
He had to bear it . 
But he determined to realize the means of paying his debts , from his sales ; and he was resolved that a portion of his goods should be sold where there was no rival establishment . 
So he packed up a small assortment , consisting of about fifteen hundred dollars ' worth , and sent me off with it to found a city higher up the river , on the opposite side . 
He wrote to Kentucky for another brother , who was now old enough to assist him , -LRB- there were more of the same crop growing up , -RRB- and I made my arrangements to open my little stock at a flat place on the north side of the river , some thirty miles farther up , where there were a horse mill and a farm house . 
The fame of my store spread far and near , and my sales being out of all proportion to the amount of the stock on hand , I was soon under the necessity of ordering a farther supply from Joseph ; and at the same time I was enabled to make him a handsome remittance . 
He was pleased to see the goods converted into ready money , at fair profits ; but he was a little jealous , and in a letter protested against my enticing his customers up the country across the river . 
He claimed the south side as his exclusive dominions . 
I had used some exertion to get a few of them over , who happened to be cash buyers , and felt the justice of his expostulations ; nevertheless , I do not remember to have relaxed my efforts . 
There was one of his customers , however , whom I did not seek to entice away from him . 
I could now appreciate my brother Joseph 's feelings when a competitor interfered with his prospects . 
I wrote to Joseph for advice , informing him of what had occurred . 
He wrote back , stating that his competitor did not interfere with him much , as his stock had been purchased in St. Louis . 
But Joseph did not take it into consideration that my competitor was a Jewpeddler -- a dealer in tendergoods , -LRB- such as had been damaged , and sold at auction , -RRB- and that the purchasers were men more familiar with quantities than qualities . 
My sales at Hanover had so far exceeded our calculations , that the amount of business already done had left both Joseph and myself with greatly reduced stocks . 
A generous confidence had been reposed in Joseph by the Philadelphia merchants , and he resolved to embrace every opportunity to convince them that it had not been misplaced . 
Although it was agreed that he should have twelve months ' time , yet Joseph had contrived to remit two-thirds of the amount of his indebtedness before the expiration of six months ; and all the letters he received , acknowledging the safe arrival of his remittances , contained encouraging expressions which greatly cheered him , and gave a new impetus to his exertions . 
Joseph and I both now began to feel like men , independent men -- and men of some substance . 
He was worth , at this time , some $ 4000 , and I about $ 1000 . 
In fact , Joseph 's competitor was already meditating a retreat , being convinced of his inability to cope with so energetic and enterprising a rival , who , besides , possessed superior facilities in the procurement of his goods . 
My list being completed , I sent it off to Joseph , requesting him to send me the articles named immediately , and explaining my purpose to him . 
He responded promptly , for it happened that he had an abundance of the goods I needed , while he was deficient in the kind I had on hand , and which the Jew had rendered worthless to me . 
`` You must have been dreaming about that box , '' said I ; `` there it stands just as it stood last night , and as it will stand until the boat comes down , and then I 'll send it back to Joseph . 
He can sell its contents sooner than I. '' Moses , well contented with the result of his exploration , withdrew to his own premises , no doubt with a feeling of contempt for the stupidity of a rival who suffered him to monopolize all the business of the place . 
But I had packed up all I had of it , excepting a few pieces precisely similar to the styles kept by the Jew , for Joseph . 
Duringthe early part of the winter , I had a visit from Joseph . 
He still did most of the business at Pike Bluff , as I continued to do at Hanover . 
Joseph proposed that I should go east for our spring goods -- a proposition which I joyfully accepted . 
So it was arranged that our younger brother Isaac , who had been with Joseph , should take charge of the establishment at Hanover during my absence . 
One was handed me from Joseph , post marked Pike Bluff , where an office had been established ; but I held it unopened in my hand , while Mr. S. looked over the large number that had arrived for the western merchants . 
I was so agitated by this disappointment , that my hand trembled violently , and after making one or two awkward and ineffectual efforts to open Joseph 's letter , I withdrew rather precipitately and returned alone to my room at the hotel . 
Joseph 's letter contained a proposition , similar to the one he had made his partners , when he had visited the city the year before . 
His terms were reasonable , and I embraced them . 
Isaac was to remain with me , while Joseph was to write to Kentucky for anotherbrother . 
I informed them of the nature of its contents , and as they approved of my determination , and readily proposed selling both myself and Joseph whatever goods we wanted , I felt like one fully initiated into all the privileges and immunities of a regularly established western merchant . 
My business at Hanover , like Joseph 's at Pike Bluff , went on flourishingly . 
I consulted with Joseph , who advised me to close with him . 
Finally , Joseph persuaded me to select a location for my next stock of goods , some hundred miles in the interior , where the country was filling up rapidly with emigrants , and whither he intended removing himself at no distant day . 
I made out a memorandum for an entire stock of new goods , and agreed to be the pioneer for Joseph in the south-western portion of the state , provided Blanche threw no obstacles in the way . 
The message is from your brother Joseph , who is there . 
He says -- '' `` Never mind what he says , Elijah ! '' 
I was met at the front door of Y. S. & K. 's establishment , by Joseph , and several western acquaintances . 
Then I strove to make my way out with as little ceremony as I had observed on entering , but I was forcibly detained by Joseph . 
`` Luke , '' said he , `` are you mad ? '' 
`` I will be , Joseph , I fear , if you keep me a minute from reading this letter , '' said I , struggling to depart . 
he inquired . 
`` No , I must be alone , '' said I. `` Now , Luke , '' said he , `` I think I can make you forget all about the letter . '' 
`` You ca n't , '' said I. `` I can , '' said he . 
When Joseph , and several of my acquaintances from the west , came to the hotel to look after me , they found me at the door , about to get into a hack . 
asked Joseph . 
said he . 
`` Why , '' said he , `` if you are really going to be married , I am under an obligation to accompany you . 
`` But , '' he continued , `` you have not money enough to pay the parson , nor to pay your expenses thither , nor to buy a wedding suit . 
