Among the most troublesome and dangerous of the bands into which they formed themselves , was one commanded by an enterprising and daring youth of Connecticut , named Butler . 
His father had held a lucrative and honourable office under the British government , and had been one of the first to assemble all who were attached to the old regime , and raise the standard of Toryism . 
His excessive zeal rendered him imprudent , and in a rash attack upon a party of the patriots he was taken prisoner , tried for treason , and executed . 
His son , John , already mentioned , assumed the command of his party , and vowed revenge upon the Whigs for the destruction of his father . 
He was well qualified to be the leader of a desperate gang . 
Intrepid and fearless , but wily and sagacious , he was equally capable of contriving stratagems and of performing exploits . 
Unscrupulous , unprincipled , and fruitful in expedients , with wonderful celerity he could retrieve the most disastrous mischances ; and often when his enemies supposed that his power of doing mischief was annihilated , he would suddenly come upon them with renewed force and fury , and make them feel that his arm was as strong , and his heart as relentless as ever . 
His personal qualities , as well as those of his mind , fitted him well to be a leader of desperate men engaged in a marauding warfare against the recognised authorities of the land . 
At once agile and athletic , and of vigorous health , he was capable of enduring any fatigue , and sustaining every privation to which the adventurous and dangerous courses he pursued so frequently exposed him . 
He had also an air of dignity and loftiness in his appearance , which contributed much to secure him the complete ascendency he possessed over his followers . 
Many and terrible were the slaughters , the burnings , and the desolations committed by Butler and his guerilla band on the fairest portions of Connecticut . 
His name soon became so terrible , that rewards were offered for his apprehension , and the militia of the country made every effort to effect his destruction . 
He was at length taken , carried to New Haven , and condemned to the same fate his father had borne , a fate which he had so cruelly avenged , and so amply deserved . 
But he died not . 
Love saved him . 
She deceived his gaoler -- she procured admission to the convict ; and the same stratagem which afterwards saved the life of the celebrated La Vallette , now saved that of John Butler . 
said Henry Austin to his companion , John Butler , the fugitive from justice , with whom the reader is already acquainted . 
Henry was the only son of Uriah Austin who had afforded Butler his protection , and the only brother of Isabella , who had saved the life of that offender . 
Although Butler , in his heart , disliked the patriotism of this brave youth , he was aware of the imprudence of , at this time , expressing his feelings ; and , with profound dissimulation , he continued to affect penitence for his former conduct . 
`` Your enthusiasm is natural to your youth , '' said Butler , with an internal sneer . 
said Butler , with an irony of tone which Henry 's inexperience of hypocrisy prevented him from observing . 
`` Lead on , '' cried Henry , `` we will follow ; '' and Butler echoed the reply . 
Austin and Butler were now , for a space , perplexed how to proceed . 
He was a powerful and active man , and Austin would have had a dangerous and difficult struggle to undergo , had not his antagonist perceived the approach of Butler . 
Her amiable companion , Mary Watson , who knelt beside her ; his own companion and colleague in the victory , Butler ; the slain Indians ; the whole scene of woods and mountains , earth and the heavens , that surrounded him , all -- all were forgotten , or rather extinguished in the absorbing sensation of that enrapturing gaze with which he beheld her . 
And she , when her grateful outpourings to Heaven were finished , and rising to salute him , for the first time noticed his ardent gaze , and surveyed his generous countenance -- she , too , felt as if there was none but him in the world . 
On that spot , and in that moment , love exerted his supremacy over two youthful hearts as pure , as fervent , and as faithful as ever beat in human bosoms . 
Its origin was , in truth , closely conneeted with the affairs of Butler , although , ignorant of the circumstance , he was so instrumental in defeating and avenging it . 
His prosecutors , the Whigs of New Haven , had many relations among the settlers of Wyoming . 
In revenge , therefore , for the condemnation passed upon him , which it was not doubted would be executed , as well as in resentment of the patriotic principles which predominated in the settlement , some of his gang , after its dispersion in Connecticut , fled to the country of the Mohawk Indians , and exerted every artifice to inflame them against the settlers . 
The suggestion of one Silas Bateman , a zealous partizan of Butler , was the immediate cause of this outrage . 
He applied himself to a half-breed Indian of a daring and ferocious character , who possessed great influence among the Mohawks . 
Having , from the arrangements they were making , satisfied himself that they intended remaining there for the night , he set off with the design of apprising the people of Wyoming , when , on his way , he met with Austin and Butler , as before stated . 
Austin and Butler became favourites throughout the whole settlement . 
Butler , too , received from Mr. Norwood the thanks which he deserved . 
But his experienced eye perceived the superior fervour with which the reverend gentleman , perhaps unconsciously , addressed his companion . 
The fiend of jealousy , from that moment , seized upon the depraved spirit of Butler . 
He began to hate Henry ; and forgetful of the obligation he owed his sister Isabella , and the impassioned vows he had often pledged to her , he began even to dislike her . 
This circumstance had , for a time , some influence in counteracting the effects of Butler 's jealousy of Henry , and his increasing hatred of the Austins . 
Henry , in the mean time , did not dream of the alteration that had taken place in the feelings and designs of Butler . 
He conceived that gratitude and love had bound him firmly to his sister , and to the interests of all her friends . 
Butler . 
Frequently did he feel sorry for his sister 's infatuation in loving this man ; and , although her happiness seemed to depend on a union with him , he often felt as if he could wish some event to take place which would frustrate its accomplishment . 
This individual was John Butler . 
His conviction of their mutual attachment gnawed at his heart ; and every allusion to it , by the gossips of the place , stung him like a scorpion . 
He , however , was a consummate master of duplicity , and preserved a strict silence on the subject , affecting to occupy his mind with more important concerns . 
But he had internally vowed that their union never should take place , during his life , without being cemented by blood . 
At that moment the Hermit of the Woods -- the old man who had conducted Henry and Butler to the rescue of Miss Norwood and her friend -- stood before them . 
The whole heart and soul of John Butler were secretly with these . 
Their leaders knew it , and placed entire confidence in him . 
With all their machinations and designs he was made acquainted ; and frequently , by his advice and management , he contributed to the success of their enterprises . 
He , however , in public preserved an appearance of attachment to the popular cause . 
This he did with the double view of serving his own party the more effectually by treachery to the other , and of availing himself of any favourable occurrence that might take place to aggrandize himself by means of the whigs , in which , had he succeeded , it is doubtful whether his principles might not have accommodated themselves to his interest . 
Be this as it may , he , for some months , conducted himself so much to the satisfaction of the people of Wyoming , that their most vigilant patriots found no cause to make him an object of either disapprobation or suspicion . 
Such a scene , in all its variety of feelings , and intensity of emotions , was , much to his chagrin , witnessed by John Butler , the royalist , on the day that Henry Austin and his brave band of patriotic volunteers , departed from Wyoming to join the encampment at Valley Forge . 
Yet Butler rejoiced at the departure of these men . 
It removed to a distance many of his enemies , and diminished the strength of the whig interest in the settlement . 
He was only chagrined to see how much they were beloved ; and if a wish of his could have annihilated these patriotic soldiers and those who lavished on them their parting caresses , that wish would have gone forth with the joyous energy of malignant triumph . 
He still wore the cloak of patriotism ; but the time had come when he gave up the intention of wearing it much longer . 
He had tried popularity for many months , but it had gained him no confidence ; it had procured him no public trust , no official emolument . 
He now saw reasons for permitting the current of his affections to revert into their former channel . 
It did not yet suit his views to change his outward professions or his observable conduct . 
Hypocrisy was , for some time yet , his surest game , and he played it admirably . 
But he deceived them no longer for office . 
That object he saw was hopeless . 
He deceived them for his own safety and their ruin . 
Many even of the latter character would , no doubt , have remained tranquil , and perhaps gradually abandoned their unpatriotic and dangerous sentiments , but for the machinations of Butler , who , like the evil genius of the place , would permit neither tranquillity , confidence , nor amity to remain long therein . 
War and destruction were the elements in which he delighted to move . 
To enjoy the revelry of bloodshed , he scrupled not to sacrifice both the obligations of kindred and the ties of gratitude . 
He had in his advances to popularity , among the whigs , met with repulses sufficient to convince him of the fruitlessness of pursuing aggrandizement in that direction . 
He felt too confident of the firmness with which he was rooted in her affection , to fear being supplanted by Butler or any other rival ; and he had the delicacy not to hurt her feelings by alluding to the possibility of such an occurrence . 
Butler 's engagement with his sister he had long wished to see dissolved ; for he now knew enough of the man to be assured that he was not calculated to make her happy . 
His surmise that his affections were transferred to Agnes , led him to hope that the intended union of such a man with so near and dear a relative as his sister , never would take place . 
Yet he grieved for the affliction which the disappointment would bring upon Isabella . 
She had unfortunately fixed her affections upon an unworthy object , and was , therefore , doomed to the misery of a sorrowing heart , whether she became united to him or not . 
On his sister 's account , therefore , the change in the affections of Butler afforded Henry satisfaction sufficient to atone for any uneasiness he might feel on account of Agnes being the object of the new flame of the deceitful royalist . 
The rivalship of Butler he therefore treated with contempt ; and he left Wyoming without giving him to understand , by any indication whatever , that he suspected its existence . 
He recollected that in his absence , Butler might have the boldness to make an express declaration of his passion ; and although it was impossible that Agnes could be induced to encourage his pretensions , she might be subjected to his importunities , and even -- but it was an idea he wished not to entertain -- in the event of disturbance in the settlement , to his violence . 
In his correspondence with her -- for he found frequent opportunities of forwarding letters to his friends -- he never alluded to his fear on this subject , lest he might give her unnecessary uneasiness . 
For some months before I left Wyoming , I was haunted with a suspicion that Butler loved Agnes . 
You are aware of his engagements with my sister . 
-- I can not forget that Butler was a tory ; nay , I have good grounds for believing he is still one in his heart . 
Should any interruption of your tranquillity take place , I tremble to think of what may be his conduct . 
He hates my sister . 
Might he not avail himself of some Indian irruption to destroy her -- to destroy perhaps my aged parent ? 
-- And then his passion for Agnes -- might he not employ the marauders to bear her off to some distant concealment , where she would be completely in his power ? 
Has Butler been absent of late , for any length of time , from your village ? 
I will conclude by imploring you to watch over the safety of my Betrothed , and to be alive to the information I have given you in relation to Butler . '' 
-- `` Your information concerning Butler was well-timed . 
It aroused our vigilance and led to the detection of his villany . 
Many of them , among whom is Butler , have fled , and some are in prison . 
But as you had expressed yourself doubtfully in relation to the guilt of Butler , and seemed desirous that I should watch rather than accuse him , I resolved to do so , for I felt unwilling to involve into a trouble a man who might eventually be innocent . 
`` Rodolph had himself observed some movements among the tories , and especially among the New England refugees , over whom Butler possesses great influence . 
They , in consequence , as he supposes , have held public councils , and seem to be preparing for some enterprise . 
But the circumstance most convincing of Butler being connected with these movements , is his having been absent for nearly four weeks , about the time when you state that he was suspected to be in Philadelphia . 
`` By this means he became acquainted with the intrigues that were now actively going forward among the refugees , and soon discovered that the principal mover was Butler . 
Butler , Brandt , and Aranooko , the Sachem of the Mohawks , were early on the scene . 
Butler possessed a good figure ; and , in his pleasant moods , a handsome countenance . 
But in his moments of gloom and resentment he betrayed the looks of a ruffian , and in his periods of wrath the scowl of a demon . 
On such occasions the contracted brows , the flushed cheeks , the clenched teeth , the quivering lips , and the eyes flashing fire like burning mirrors , denoted the hellish fury of his mind , and if he did not become loathsome , he became terrifying . 
But his most furious fits could be controlled by his hypocrisy where his interest required it . 
A moment 's reflection would replace him on his guard , and restore to him a placidity yet an expressiveness of countenance , which at once indicated great knowledge of the world , and ability to deceive it . 
-- But having spoken of his appearance and character in a preceding part of our narrative , it is unncessary to enlarge upon it here . 
At length , twelve o'clock being announced , Butler mounted on an elevated platform outside the door , and requested the attention of the assembly , which he addressed as follows : -- `` Friends and fellow subjects , I now beg leave to state the object of calling you together on the present occasion . 
The warm expressions of personal regard for him which General Howe had more than once used in the hearing of Butler , induced the latter to attend to his remarks without interruption , although not without impatience and a strong feeling of resentment . 
Butler hastened to stem the current that was setting against his designs ; and by his address he completely succeeded in giving it a contrary direction . 
said he , `` have I , in reality , heard sentiments of lukewarmness in the cause of Britain , from one who has hitherto been so devoted to her interests ; who has fought and bled and lost his all for his fidelity to the government that claims his allegiance ! 
Here Butler read a commission which he had received from general Howe , appointing him to the command of such of the frontier royalists as might join his standard . 
He also read to the assembly a paper of instructions , requiring him to use every effort in his power to reduce the malecontents of Wyoming , and to preserve the district in subjection to the regal authority . 
This paper likewise contained the promise of bestowing on him and his coadjutors in this service , all the lands of the district whose owners should be convicted of any act of disloyalty . 
`` Now , '' said he , after he had finished reading these documents , `` all who are willing to obey the orders of general Howe , and to serve their king , and earn the reward offered for such service , will come forward , enrol their names on the list of the king 's friends , and swear fidelity to his cause . 
All were either convinced or intimidated by Butler 's statement . 
One Ford , an active and violent tory , was appointed to administer the oath of fidelity to the assembly ; while Butler and two or three other leaders withdrew to hold a conference with the Indian chiefs . 
The calumet was lighted , and each having smoked from it , Aranooko arose , and addressed Butler . 
replied Butler , `` our father knows ye are valiant , and he asks your aid . 
So saying , he handed to Butler , a long string of beads made of red berries , in testimony of the league . 
In return for which Butler made him a present of several trinkets he had provided for the purpose . 
His eyes glanced fire for some moments , then cooled into a settled gleam of ferocious satisfaction : while pride perched on his heavy brows , determination expanded his large lips , and imparted a clenching firmness to the vigorous muscles of his whole frame , as he addressed himself to Butler . 
`` Brother , '' said he , `` You and I are now leagued in one cause . 
Butler himself was startled at the fiendish ferocity with which the savage asked this question . 
He paused for a moment , as if to recover from his surprise , and to reflect on an answer . 
He then said : `` Brother , our minds agree . 
Butler received a sharp hatchet in return for a poignard , on handing which to Brandt , he observed , `` The point of that steel is for the hearts of thy enemies , until thy revenge is glutted ! 
Butler , Brandt , Aranooko , and all , indeed , who were inside of the log-house , rushed out to lend assistance to their friends , but they found them in full flight , and were themselves borne off the scene by a torrent of fugitives which they could not resist . 
He withdrew his mask and presented the countenance of Butler . 
Butler drew forth a pistol . 
Agnes with great presence of mind , watched his motions , and , at the moment he fired , she shook his arm so forcibly , that the accuracy of his aim was destroyed , and he missed the advancing horseman . 
He uttered a profane exclamation of disappointment , and , perceiving the horseman to be in the act of presenting a pistol , he fled , and was soon concealed amidst the woods . 
When Butler missed him and fled , he prudently reserved his fire that he might the more effectually protect Agues from any other assailant until she could be conveyed to a place of safety . 
This he soon accomplished , and hastened to raise a party to go in pursuit of the captors of Mr. Norwood . 
But the latter , whom Butler soon overtook , knew the lurking places of the woods too well to be easily captured . 
She could not be Butler 's without being faithless and perjured . 
Butler must , if possible , be kept in uncertainty respecting your determination . 
Peremptorily to reject his terms might be fatal to your father . 
To use it against such a dark and depraved dissembler as Butler , and , as in the present case , for the purpose of preserving the life of a virtuous man , can hardly be considered wrong . 
You can not promise yourself to Butler , without speaking a wilful untruth . 
If such were the Hermit 's views , why did he not counsel Agnes to save her father by deceiving Butler ? 
His motives were various . 
The first was to use an agent whom he could instruct in a certain stratagem which might effect the purpose , and thereby obviate the necessity of himself appearing on the scene and deceiving Butler in relation to Agnes ; an alternative which he wished to avoid , but if found necessary , he was resolved to adopt . 
On leaving Agnes he proceeded to the residence of a young man named Joseph Jennings . 
He accompanied him to a cavern about ten miles distant from the residence of the sachem Aranooko , in the neighbourhood of which Mr. Norwood was confined under the immediate surveillance of Butler himself . 
He was soon introduced to Butler , furnished with arms at the expense of king George , and enrolled among the faithful defenders of his majesty 's crown and government . 
Butler and he have had a violent quarrel to-day . '' 
`` If Butler or Bateman -- hic-up -- finds that I have left my post -- hic '' -- muttered Ephraim . 
Butler himself and two or three other royalists were it inhabitants . 
It contained Butler himself , who was in a sound sleep . 
He examined the other dormitories , but was greatly chagrined to find that the object of his search was in neither of them . 
He was retiring very reluctantly and with much mortification , when he heard a cough which he thought was familiar to his ear , and perceived the movement of a curtain which he had before mistaken for part of the enclosure of the tent . 
He was also agreeably surprised at seeing the curtain drawn aside , and the well-known countenance of his reverend friend looking at him . 
He hastily motioned to Mr. Norwood to preserve silence , and to follow him . 
No demon of wrath could exhibit more fury than did Butler on discovering that his important prisoner had escaped . 
The sentinel whose neglect of duty had occasioned this mischance , was brought trembling into his presence . 
In vain did he acknowledge his crime and implore pardon . 
In vain did he plead that he had been deceived by one who had deceived Butler himself -- one who had that very day been enrolled among the king 's friends , and seemed particularly zealous for the royal cause . 
As strict discipline was , as yet , far from being properly established among the tory bands that now rallied round the standard of Butler , and as there was some danger of exciting discontent in their ranks , if Ephraim should be punished too severely , he was merely sentenced to be first publicly reprimanded , and afterwards exposed in an open space in the centre of the encampment , with his legs confined in a wooden frame resembling stocks , for twenty four hours . 
Butler was greatly dissatisfied with the lenity of this sentence ; but reflecting that too much harshness might shake his popularity among a body of men who were not yet accustomed to subordination , he acquiesced . 
He , however , determined to urge forward , with all speed , the measures that were in preparation for an attack upon the settlements of Wyoming . 
In expectation of being able , by means of her father , to constrain Agnes to comply with his wishes , he had for some few days past rather contributed to retard the intended enterprise , that he might have time to effect this purpose . 
answered Butler and his coleagues . 
Butler received the wampum , and presented Aranooko with a handsome military sash in exchange . 
Butler now rose and addressed the sachem . 
`` I know the bravery of Brandt , '' replied Butler . 
-- So true is the Greek adage which may be thus paraphrased : Isabella Austin still continued to love Butler even after his treacherous alliance with the savages became known . 
In spite of the exhortations and arguments of her friends -- in spite of her own earnest desire to withdraw her affections from one so perfidious and wicked , her heart still clung to him . 
He was her first , her only choice among mankind . 
All her affections were entwined around his image , and she found it as impossible to dissever them as to separate sensation from her existence . 
Severely , indeed , did she feel his perfidy -- deeply did she lament his turpitude . 
His attempt upon Miss Norwood , and his instrumentality in carrying off her father , greatly shocked her . 
She could offer no apology for him . 
She saw that he was not only a traitor but a ruffian ; yet , though her esteem was gone , her love was not diminished ; and no small portion of the agitation she experienced , when she heard of the late transaction , arose from the danger to which he had then been exposed . 
The outcry against him throughout the whole settlement was unanimous and great ; and every day her ears were pained by accumulating intelligence of his flagitious acts and detestable projects . 
It was assailed now by an overwhelming force of nearly sixteen hundred tories and Indians , under the command of Butler and Brandt . 
The tories , who were commanded by Butler , formed the largest portion of this army , their number being about one thousand . 
cried he , addressing himself to Butler , `` and my revenge on Wyoming shall be satisfied ! '' 
replied his confederate in cruelty . 
If indeed he should be a white man , whether a spy or not , unless he belonged to Butler 's party , he resolved that he should suffer the same fate . 
By information received from Butler , he knew that he had now in his power the person whose interference had occasioned the rescue of Miss Norwood and Miss Watson , and the death of three of his party in the Hemlock Glade . 
His first impulse was to sacrifice him to his vengeance . 
But reflecting that he was entirely in his power , he resolved to forbear , until he should show him how he had excited his resentment -- for he knew that revenge is never so complete as when its victim is made conscious of his offence , and compelled by his sufferings or his fears to deplore having committed it . 
The assailing force was also divided into two bodies , the savages and the tories , being ranged under their respective leaders , Brandt and Butler . 
Butler and Brandt now held a consultation . 
`` It is an unexpected resistance , '' said Butler . 
`` The rebels manage their affairs better than I expected , '' said Butler . 
`` No , '' said Butler . 
Butler being satisfied with this assurance , took his measures accordingly . 
He first sent a message to the garrison summoning it to surrender , offering them terms more favourable than he had any intention of fulfilling . 
They insisted that it would be folly to trust to the professions of so treacherous a character as Butler , whom no treaties could bind . 
In fine , the terms were rejected , and Butler hastened to adopt other measures . 
Nor was the name of Butler , at this time , much less appalling than that of his barbarous confederate . 
The atrocities committed under his sanction at fort Wintermoot had struck them with dismay , for they felt that if they should fall into his hands , they might expect nothing but a similar fate . 
While the minds of the people , in the fort , were occupied with these and other conjectures relative to the present aspect of their affairs , one of the scouts who had been taken prisoner by the tories , and was released by the order of Butler , after experiencing from the latter much unexpected kindness , returned to the garrison . 
He reported to the Governor that Butler was heartily tired of his alliance with the Indians , on account of their ferocious cruelty at Fort Wintermoot , as well as the general obstinacy of their character , which prevented him from being able to restrain their excesses , or even to direct their military force to any useful purpose . 
The scout also stated , that besides giving him this information , Butler had requested him to acquaint the Governor of Wyoming with his desire to enter into arrangements by which their differences might be reconciled , and peace restored to the settlement . 
There were , notwithstanding the known perfidy of Butler 's character , many circumstances which countenanced the supposition that he was sincere in this instance . 
They expressed their conviction that the professions of Butler were totally false , and that they were intended merely as a lure to facilitate the execution of some stratagem , against which it would be proper diligently to guard . 
It was , at length , determined that the same individual who made the report relative to Butler 's wishes , should return to him and ascertain on what terms he would disband his forces and accept of the forgiveness and friendship of the people of Wyoming , who were , even yet , willing to overlook all his hostility , and restore to him their former protection and kindness . 
The messenger soon returned with Butler 's answer , which was , that if the Governor and any number of his friends would meet him at an appointed place , they would confer together , and , no doubt , speedily agree upon terms . 
It strengthened the doubts of those who had suspicions of Butler 's intentions . 
Why should he want the Governor and his friends to leave their place of security , and meet him in a situation where , it was evident they could have no other guarantee for their safety than his word . 
The man who carried it stated , that Butler felt unwilling to subject himself to the hazard of an interview with the Governor while attended by so large a party of armed men personally hostile to him . 
He proposed that , if the Governor would select five or six of his friends , Butler would select the same number of his own , and attended by these only , they should meet at the bottom of a high cliff which he pointed out about a quarter of a mile further up the defile . 
Butler , with a small party , had reached the ground a few minutes before them . 
Towards the morning , she was seized with several fits of frenzy , during which she frequently exclaimed , that she beheld the ungrateful Butler in the act of murdering her father ! 
Ungrateful Butler ! 
The garrison of Fort Wintermoot they remembered , had received to the request which they made to Butler to be informed of what treatment they might expect if they surrendered , the reply which has since become so famous for its laconic ferocity of `` the hatchet ! '' 
The blood-stained banner of toryism soon appeared issuing from the surrounding forest ; and Butler and Brandt , with the whole strength of their sanguinary followers , drew up before the devoted fort , which they soon made arrangements to attack . 
At one of these , Butler resolved to make an effective attempt , cost what it would , to scale the walls , and take the place by storm . 
As he was leading on a choice body of men for this purpose , his attention and the attention of all , both in and out of the garrison , were suddenly attracted to an apparition upon the rampart opposite to him , of a beautiful young woman with her white garments flowing loosely around her , her dark brown hair streaming wildly in the air , her face pale , her eyes rolling , and her hands stretched towards Heaven . 
She had unexpectedly rushed from her chamber , and with the energy and fleetness of a maniac , while the attention of her friends was directed towards the advancing foe , she ascended the parapet , looked wildly around her -- then fixing her view upon Butler , she exclaimed : `` Ha ! 
Uttering the last words , she sprang from the wall towards Butler , and as she descended , a random ball -- for even this heart-rending spectacle had not produced an entire cessation of the firing -- passed through her heart . 
Before they could reload , Butler and his inhuman followers were within the ramparts , furiously employed in the work of destruction . 
Butler , in the midst of this affray , became anxious to obtain possession of Agnes , lest she might fall a victim to the savages , who he knew , had resolved on a general massacre , and who were now surmounting the entrenchments in all directions . 
`` It is only to lead me to Mr. Norwood and his daughter , that I may save them , '' said Butler . 
On entering the apartment , Butler , looking at Agnes , exclaimed , `` I am fortunate ! 
He then called , from the window , to Bateman , one of his partizans , who has been already mentioned as enrolling the tories in the Hemlock Glade , to bring forward the company he commanded . 
no -- let not the name of the sweetest and purest , and most disinterested of feelings be profaned by being applied to the gross and selfish , and sensual passion which actuated the heart of Butler the destroyer of Wyoming A detailed description of the terrible carnage that was now committed on the defenceless inmates of the fort , by the merciless victors of this bloody day , would present too horrible a picture of human suffering and human depravity , to be endured by any reader of sensibility . 
said he to Butler . 
Butler did not interrupt the sorrowful meditations of Agnes for that night . 
He wished to render himself as little odious to her as possible . 
By treating her and her friends with kindness and delicacy , he hoped to remove her unfavourable impressions of him , and in some degree , at least , ingratiate himself into her esteem . 
The vehemence of his passion , however , would not permit him long to defer his attempts to gain her to his purpose . 
He visited her the next day . 
`` Miss Norwood , '' said he , `` I truly rejoice that you and your father were yesterday rescued from the unsparing hands of the savages . 
`` My fair reprehender , '' he replied , `` thou only utterest such sentiments as I expected . 
said she , interrupting him , `` the faithful maid to whom thou didst owe thy rescue , has been killed by thy cruelty . 
said he , `` thou art wrong . 
`` Fair Agnes , '' he replied , `` dost thou not know love to be an involuntary impulse ? 
`` Thou dost throw away thy counsel , my lovely adviser , '' said he , looking fondly on her countenance , which animated by her subject , had brightened , during her observations , into a most beautiful glow . 
He had heard the sound of a bugle which was the signal for a joint-muster of the Indians and tories , in order to perform some military manœuvres previous to a carousal they were to hold in the afternoon , in celebrating their late decisive victories . 
But so complete had been the previous day 's slaughter in the fort , that no prisoners had been made , except those who fell , as we have seen , into the hands of Butler . 
This barbarous part of their ceremonies , therefore , the Indians had no means of performing unless Butler should give up some of his prisoners for the purpose . 
But Butler 's design of conciliating Agnes prevented him from complying . 
He reminded Brandt that the glory of obtaining so large a number of scalps as he now possessed , more than compensated for the want of prisoners ; and that , as to the few he had himself taken , he considered he was well entitled to the entire disposal of them , especially as he had not interfered with the operations of Brandt in securing as many scalps as he had thought proper . 
Brandt acquiesced in the propriety of these remarks , and the captives of Butler were permitted to remain solely at his own disposal . 
In consequence of this , it was agreed by Butler and Brandt , that , while the Indians remained in the Valley , they should encamp at a distance from the tories , but not so far off as to prevent the maintenance of friendly intercourse , or a speedy junction in case of either being attacked by an enemy . 
On visiting Agnes the next day , Butler approached her with the self-satisfied air of a wooer who thinks he can plead the merit of having performed an action of a nature very pleasing to his mistress . 
`` My sweet Agnes , '' said he , `` you will not consider me destitute of all claim upon your esteem , when I inform you , that , but for my exertions your fellow captives would have been yesterday sacrificed by the savages in conformity with their ferocious customs . 
`` Agnes , '' said he , `` I know that you think me a villain , but I did not suppose that you thought me a fool . 
`` By Heaven , '' he ejaculated , `` I have been patient long enough with this girl 's obstinacy . 
`` Then hear thy doom , foolish , obstinate man , '' said Butler , in a tone of fierce determination -- `` and the doom of thy captive friends -- ye shall , should she not consent to save you , be delivered up by the dawn to-morrow , to the Mohawks , who , at noon , shall bind you to the stake , and sacrifice you upon the flaming faggots , according to the customs of their tribe ! '' 
`` Rash man , '' replied Butler , foaming with rage , `` it ill becomes thy prudence when under the paw of the lion , to goad him to wrath ; and it is but a poor display of clerical sanctity to convey reproof in the words of insolence . 
He pronounced the last word with a terrible emphasis ; and casting on Mr. Norwood the scowl of a fiend , he hurried furiously from the apartment . 
At ten o'clock , Butler , according to his threat , visited her . 
`` A chance still remains for thy friends , '' said he . 
cried he . 
He knew its meaning . 
He led her to the window . 
With a sternness of purpose and a refinement of cruelty characteristic of his infernal mind , Butler conducted the trembling Agnes to this balcony , that she might , in pursuance of his threats , witness the horrible sacrifice , for the completion of which every thing was now ready . 
He seated himself beside her , and , with barbarous officiousness , pointed out the arrangements of the scene . 
This last act of preparation was , at length , completed , and these ferocious figures only awaited the signal which Brandt , who stood near the balcony , was to give , at the intimation of Butler , to perform their horrid office . 
Butler , on perceiving from his station on the balcony , this interruption to the execution of his victims , hastened forward to ascertain distinctly the cause . 
cried Butler , in astonishment . 
returned Butler , perceiving the impolicy of irritating the savage farther . 
exclaimed the savage , his habitual taste for destruction returning . 
-- He was but a white man , '' he said to the executioners , who now stood near him , `` and could not be a prophet of Manetto . 
Butler , with the whole force of the tories , was now advancing to check the flight of the Indians and give battle to the assailants , when Henry Austin , at the head of the Wyoming Volunteers , and about five hundred Continental troops , rushed out of the wood and charged the traitorous destroyerswith the bayonet . 
Butler , even in this extremity , resolved to make an effort to retain possession of Agnes . 
He hurried from the scene of battle , as soon as he saw that the day was lost , to the balcony where he had left her in charge of a sentinel . 
By this time , however , the prisoners were unbound , and Dr. Watson , whose anxious eye followed the career of Butler over the field , perceived this movement , the intention of which he at once conjectured , just as Henry Austin approached towards him . 
With the speed of an arrow Henry obeyed , and just as Butler had seized Agnes to carry her off , he with one spring mounted the balcony , and one powerful thrust of his sword , annihilated the opposition which the sentinel imprudently offered to his advance upon Butler . 
cried he to the latter , `` thank Heaven , I have thee ! '' 
So saying he made a desperate pass at Henry , aiming , not to save himself , but to destroy his antagonist . 
He struck the coming weapon aside with such force that it almost flew from its owner 's grasp , while his own sword , in its backward sweep , nearly dissevered Butler 's head from his body . 
