Inreading the character of John Bull , which was committed to paper some years ago by one who knew him well , you must have observed , that though `` he was in the main an honest , plain dealing fellow , yet he was choleric and inconstant , and very apt to quarrel with his best friends . '' 
This observation you will find fully verified in the course of the narrative ; and as the opinions and manners of superiors have a very great influence in forming the character of inferiors , you need not be surprised if you find a family likeness prevailing among the persons whose history I am about to recite , most , of whom were formerly residents in Mr. Bull 's house , or apprentices in his shop . 
Therewas among the appendages to John 's estate , a pretty large tract of land , which had been neglected by his ancestors , and which he never cared much about , excepting that now and then some of his family went thither a hunting , and brought home venison and furs . 
Indeed this was as far as I can find the best pretence that John had to call the land his ; for he had no legal title to it . 
It was then a very woody country , in some parts rocky and hilly , in other parts level ; well watered with brooks and ponds , and the whole of it bordered on a large lake , in which were plenty of fish , some of which were often served up at John 's table , on fast days . 
Thestories told by one and another of these adventurers , had made a deep im pression on the mind of Walter Pipeweed , -LSB- 1 -RSB- one of John 's domestics , a fellow of a roving and projecting disposition , and who had learned the art of surveying . 
Bull at first laughed at the proposal , and put him off ; but Walter followed it up so close , and told what advantages might be gained by settling there , and promised , if he should succeed , to turn all his trade into his master 's hand , and give him the refusal of whatever he might bring to market , and withal shewed him some draughts , which he had made with chalk , from the reports of the huntsmen , that Bull began to think of the matter in good earnest , and consulted his lawyer upon the subject , who , after due confideration of the premises , and stroking his band , advised him as follows . 
`` Why yes , Mr. Bull , I do n't see why you ought not to look about you as well as your neighbours . 
-- Then there is old Lewis , the cudgel player , and Nic Frog , the draper , who have , perhaps , -LRB- I say perhaps , Mr. Bull , because there may be a little doubt on both sides , and in that case , you know sir , it would not become gentlemen of our cloth , to speak positively -RRB- as good a claim as your honor to this land ; but then it is a maxim , you know , that possession is eleven points of the law , and if you once get your foot upon it , they can not oust you without a process , and your honor knows that your purse is as long as theirs , and you are as able to stand a suit with them as they are with you . 
After a while he began to thrive , and his master Bull recommended a wife , -LSB- 2 -RSB- whom he married , and by whom he had a number of children . 
This was a mark of politeness which John valued himself much upon . 
Walter was often seen , on the arrival of Bull 's waggon , to clap his handerchief to his nose ; but as he knew his old master was an odd sort of a fellow , and it was his interest to keep in with him , he generally turned off the compliment with a laugh , saying , good naturedly enough , `` Let him laugh that wins , '' without explaining his meaning , though it might admit of a double entendre -- and calling some of his servants , he ordered them to shovel out the dung , and make his black cattle mix theirs with it -- and when spread over the land , the air took out most of the scent , and the salts were of some advantage to the soil . 
AfterWalter Pipeweed had got his affairs into tolerable order , he was visited in his retirement by Cecilius Peterson , -LSB- 4 -RSB- another of Bull 's apprentices , who had taken a fancy to the same kind of life , from a disgust to some things that had happened in the family . 
He had not been long with Walter before he found it would not do for him to remain there . 
These made him rather disgustful to Walter , who had learned his manners of Mr. Bull 's mother , when she was in her sober senses , and between her and Lord Peter there had been a long variance . 
To ingratiate himself still farther with his old master , he accepted of a girl out of his family for a wife , -LRB- for John was always fond of his tenants marrying for fear of their doing worse -RRB- he took as little notice as possible of his reputed father , and dropping , or disowning his nick name of Peterson , he assumed that of Marygold , which old Madam Bull understood as a compliment to one of her daughters . 
This ceremony , though a trifle in itself , helped much to recommend him to Mr. Bull , who was a very dutiful son , and took his mother 's advice in most parts of his business . 
Sickness and delirium of Mr. Bull ' s mother . 
Aboutthe time in which these first attempts were making , and the fame of them had raised much jealousy among some , and much expectation among others , there happened a sad quarrel in John Bull ` sfamily . 
His mother , -LSB- 5 -RSB- poor woman , had been seized with hysteric sits , which caused her at times to be delirious and full of all forts of whims . 
If any one of the family complained of a lame ancle or stiff knee , or had the crick in his neck , or happened to cut his finger , or was any other way so disabled as not to perform his duty to a tittle , she was so far from making the least allowance , that she would frown and scold and rave like a bedlamite ; and John was such an obedient son to his mother , that he would lend her his hand to box their ears , or his foot to kick their backsides , for not complying with her humours . 
After he had been here a while , he thought Nick 's family were as much too loose in their manners as Bull 's were too strict ; and having heard a rumour of the Forest , to which Nick had some kind of claim , he packed up his little all , and hired one of Nick 's servants who had been there a hunting , to pilot him to that part of the Forest to which Nick laid claim . 
But Frog had laid an anchor to windward of him ; for as Pickle had said nothing to him about a lease , he supposed that when Peregrine had got into the Forest he would take a lease of his old master , Bull , which would strengthen his title , and weaken his own ; he therefore bribed the pilot to shew Peregrine to a barren part of the Forest instead of that fertile place -LSB- 8 -RSB- to which he had already sent his surveyors , and of which he was contriving to get possession . 
Abused by Bull , cheated by Frog , what am I at last come to ? 
Nothing in the shape of an human being that I know of , nearer than Pipeweed 's plantation , and with him I can not agree ; he is so devoted to old Dame Bull that he and I can not live together any more than I could with the old woman . 
I will write to some of my fellow-apprentices ; I know they were as discontented as myself in old Bull 's family , though they did not care to speak their minds as plainly as I did . 
It was in vain to appeal from the chaplain or the old Dame to their master , for he was so obedient a son that he suffered them to govern him as they pleased ; nay , though broad hints were given that the chaplain was an emissary of lord Peter , and was taking advantage of the old lady 's hysterics to bring the whole family into his interest , John gave no heed to any of these insinuations . 
Happily , however , for them , Bull had a little while before that put the affairs of the Forest into the hands of a gentleman of the law , -LSB- 11 -RSB- with orders to see that the matter was properly managed , so as to yield him some certain profit . 
To this sage they applied , and for the proper fees , which they clubbed for between them , they obtained a lease , under hand and seal ; wherein , for `` sundry causes him thereunto moving , the said Bull did grant and convey unto John Codline and his associates , so many acres of his Forest , bounded so and so , and which they were to have , hold , and enjoy for ever and ever , yielding and paying so and so , and so forth . '' 
John had taken a great fancy to fishing , and thought he could wholly or chiefly subsist by it ; but Humphry had a mind for a farm ; so after a while they parted in friendship . 
Humphry , with a pack on his back and a spade in his hand , travelled across the Forest till he found a wide meadow with a large brook -LSB- 13 -RSB- running through it , which he supposed to be within John 's grant , and intended still to consider himself as a distant member of the family . 
Codline surveys his Land ; takes Robert Lumber under his protection -- Begins a suit with the Fishermen of Lewis , which , with other incidents , excites the jealousy of Mr. Bull . 
John 's family grew , and he settled his sons as fast as they became of age , to live by themselves ; and when any of his old acquaintance came to see him , he bade them welcome , and was their very good friend , as long as they continued to be of his mind , and no longer ; for he was a very pragmatical fort of a fellow , and loved to have his own way in every thing . 
John , who used the common way of taking water in his hand , to wash his face , was displeased with Roger 's innovation , and remonstrated against it . 
John was out of patience with this addition , and plumply told him , that if he did not reform his principles and practice , he would fine him , or flog him , or kick him out of doors . 
These oddities and defects rendered him more and more disagreeable to his old friend , who , however , kept his temper as well as he could , till one day , as John was saying a long grace over his meat , Roger kept his hat on the whole time . 
As soon as the ceremony was over , John took up a case knife from the table , and gave Roger a blow on the ear with the broad side of it , then with a rising stroke turned off his hat . 
Roger said nothing , but taking up his hat put it on again ; at which John broke out into such a passionate speech as this -- `` You impudent scoundrel ! 
`` FriendJohn -LRB- said Roger -RRB- dost not thou remember when thou and I lived together in friend Bull 's family , how hard thou didst think it to be compelled to look on thy book all the time that the hooded chaplain was reading the prayers , and how many knocks and thumps thou and I had for offering to use our liberty , which we thought we had a right to ? 
`` Do n'ttell me -LRB- answered John -RRB- of right and of liberty -- you have as much liberty as any man ought to have . 
`` Whois to be judge -LRB- said John -RRB- why the bookis to be judge -- and I have proved by the book over and over again that you are wrong , and therefore you are wrong , and you have no liberty to do any thing but what is right . '' 
`` Butfriend John -LRB- said Roger -RRB- who is to judge whether thou hast proved my opinions or conduct to be wrong -- thou or I ? '' 
`` Come , come , -LRB- said John -RRB- not so close neither -- none of your idle distinctions : I sayyou are in the wrong , I have provedit , and you knowit ; you have sinned against your own conscience , and therefore you deserve to be cut off as an incorrigible heretic . '' 
Atthis John was so enraged that he gave him a smart kick on the posteriors , and bade him be gone out of his house , and off his lands , and called after him to tell him , that if ever he should catch him there again he would knock his brains out . 
Roger , having experienced the logic of the foot , applied to the feat of honor , walked off , with as much meeknessas human nature is capable of , on such occasions ; and having travelled as far as he supposed to be out of the limits of John 's lease , laid himself down by the side of a clear rivulet , which flowed down a hill ; here he composed himself to sleep , and on his awaking found several bears about him , but none offered him any insult . 
Upon which he said , and minuted it down in his pocket book , `` Surely the beasts of the wilderness are in friendship with me , and this is designed by Providence -LSB- 16 -RSB- as my resting place ; here , therefore , will I pitch my tabernacle , and here shall I dwell more in peace , though surrounded by bears and wolves , than when in the midst of those whom I counted my brethren . '' 
Onthis spot he built an hut , and having taken possession , made a visit to his old master Bull , who gave him a lease of the place , with an island or two in an adjoining cove of the great lake , and recommended to him a wife , by whom he had a few children ; but his plantation was chiefly increased by the flocking of strangers to him ; for he was a very hospitable man , and made it a rule in his family not to refuse any who should come , whether lame or blind , short or tall , whether they had two eyes or one , whether they squinted or stammered , or limped , or had any other natural defect or impediment ; it was another rule that every one should bear with the infirmities of his neighbours , and help one another as they were able . 
-LSB- 17 -RSB- It seems that Bob had been sent by some of John Bull 's family to erect a fishing stage on the borders of the lake , and the lawyer who had the care of the forest not being acquainted so much as he ought to have been with the situation of the lands , or having no knowledge of the art of surveying , had made out a lease which lapped over Codline 's ; so that each of them had a claim upon the same land . 
In some circumstances this might have been deemed unfortunate , but as it happened it proved lucky for poor Bob -- his employers had left him in the lurch , and he would have starved to death if John had not taken him under his wing and sent him provisions to keep him alive . 
He also lent him a hand to clear up the bushes , and furnished him with materials to build a saw mill . 
He was of great service to John in killing bears and wolves that infested his plantation ; and when he himself was in danger , John lent him powder , shot , and flints , and sent hands to help him , and in so doing he served himself as well as his neighbour , which was no breach of morality . 
Thus they lived pretty peaceably together , till after a while Bob 's old owners found the land was grown good for something , and then -LRB- without paying John for his assistance in making it so -RRB- appealed to Mr. Bull , and got it away , and took a large slice of John 's land into the bargain . 
-LSB- 18 -RSB- This was a matter which stuck in John 's throat a great while , and if I am rightly informed he has hardly swallowed it yet . 
He did not think himself fairly dealt by , though he had all Peregrine Pickle 's land put into a new lease which Bull gave him . 
To be short , John Codline and John Bull never heartily loved one another ; they were in their temper and disposition too much alike ; each was eternally jealous of the other : and this jealousy was kept alive by a variety of incidents which it would be too tedious to enumerate . 
Without consulting his old Master Bull , or waiting for his advice or orders , Jack sent a bailiff with a writ of intrusion to the fishermen and began a suit in law ; Mr. Bull hearing of it , was glad to take advantage of the circumstance and fee council in the cause , which finally went in his favour . 
But though the issue of the cause was of so much advantage to him ; yet he ever after looked upon Codline as a forward , saucy fellow , for running on that errand before he was sent ; and there were not wanting persons who were continually buzzing in his ear , to keep a good look out on that impudent jackanapes , or he would soon begin to think himself as good a man as his master . 
-LSB- 17 -RSB- New Hampshire was granted to John Mason , and the claim descended to Robert Mason . 
-- Mr. Bull ' s sickness and delirium . 
-- His policy in paying his debts . 
-- His quarrel with Frog , and its termination by compromise . 
I now go back to tell you , that between the lands occupied by Marygold , and those on which Ploughshare had made his settlement , was a large tract of waste , where none of Mr. Bull 's family had ever been ; but the report of the plantations which one and another of them had made , drew the attention of Bull 's neighbours . 
Observing that Mr. Bull was rather careless of the Forest , and trusted his lawyers and servants with the management of it , and knowing there was a large slice of it unoccupied , he clandestinely sent out some surveyors in the disguise of hunters , to make a description of the country , and report to him at their return . 
Another good neighbour , Gustavusthe ironmonger † was gaping after it , and gave out word among his journeymen , that if any of them would adventure thither and set up their trade , he would uphold them in their pretensions , and lend them any assistance in his power . 
While these things were doing , John Bull was confined to his house with a violent fever and delirium , -LSB- 23 -RSB- under which he laboured for a long time , and his imagination was the seat of every wild freak and strange vagary . 
One while he fancied himself an absolute monarch ; then , a presbyterian clergyman ; then a general of horse ; then a lord protector : His noddle was filled with a jumble of polemic divinity , political disputes , and military arrangements , and it was not till after much blood letting , blistering , vomiting and purging , that he began to mend . 
says John , this will never do ; I must keep a good look out upon these dogs , or they will get the advantage of me . '' 
Bull was not to be put off so ; his blood was up and he determined to treat Frog 's servants as they had treated Casimir . 
To remove will ruin me ; I 'll therefore stay here , and make money under Bull , or Frog , or any other master that will let me stay . '' 
Ina subsequent quarrel which happened between Bull and Frog -- the latter seized upon this plantation again , and Peter recognized his old master ; but upon a compromise it was given up to Bull in exchange for a tract of swamp -LSB- 26 -RSB- which lay far to the southward . 
Peter continued on the ground through all these changes , and followed his business with great diligence , collecting game and pelts , and vending them sometimes to Mr. Bull , and sometimes to Mr. Frog . 
However , Bull thought it best , that in token of subjection , Stiver should change his name ; to which he consented , and partly to please his new master , and partly to retain the remembrance of his old one , he assumed the name of Bullfrog . 
Thewhole tract which was thus gotten from Frog , was thought too large for one plantation , and therefore Mr. Bull , in pursuance of the plan which he had formed appropriated the rents of the plantation , on which Bullfrog was feated , to his brother , and the other was leaf ed to two of his servants , Cartrutand Bareclay , and sometime after another tract was set off to William Broadbrim , whose father had been an assiduous ratcatcher in Mr. Bull 's family ; but more of this hereafter . 
Those on the East farm were brought up under Mr. Bull 's sister Peg , † and as it is well known that she and her brother had long been at variance , so their domestics had got tinctured with the notions and prejudices of their respective families . 
These disorders continued a long while , and business went on very slowly , till at length the heads of both families agreed to give up their separate leases , and take a new one of the whole , and let Mr. Bull appoint an overseer . 
Mr. Bull was still desirous to reward his friends in the cheapest-manner , and at the same time to keep his neighbors from encroaching upon him , and secure the possession of the forest to himself . 
In pursuance of his plan , and to make short work of it at once , he leased the whole of this southern extremity to Charles Indigo , -LSB- 29 -RSB- who was expressly ordered to take under his care and into his family all persons who had attended Mr. Bull , in his late sickness , in quality of nurses , druggists , apothecaries , laundresses , upholsters , porters , watchers , & c. & c. By this order Charles found himself at once surrounded by a large body of retainers of various ranks and qualities , and being a speculator himself , he employed a speculative man , Mr. Padlock , who had written a large treatise upon Ideas , to draw up fome rules , for the management of such a family , intending when he should build an house , to paste it up in the parlour , as a directory to his wife . 
Anotherdifficulty which Charles expected to encounter was from the wild beasts ; but luckily for him , these creatures got into a quarrel among themselves , and fought with each other till they had thinned their numbers considerbly , so that Charles and his companions could venture into the woods , where they caught some few and tamed them , as was the usual practice among all Mr. Bull 's tenants at that day . 
Mr. Bull ' s project of taming wild animals . 
-- Its execution by his tenants . 
Youmust have remarked in your acquaintance with the life and character of Mr. John Bull , that he is very whimsical , and as positive as whimsical . 
Among other advantages which he expected from the settlement of his Forest , one was , that the wild animals whom nature had made ferocious and untractable in the highest degree , would be rendered tame and ferviceable , by receiving instruction and education from the nurturing hand of humanity . 
He had conceived a notion that every creature has certain latent principles and qualities which form a foundation for improvement ; and he thought it a great piece of injustice that these qualities should be suffered to remain uncultivated : he had a mind that experiments should be attempted to discover how far this kind of cultivation was practicable , and what use could be made of the animal powers under the direction and control of rational government . 
Full of this idea , he came to a resolution , that it should be the duty of every one of his tenants to catch wild beasts of various sorts , and discipline them so as to find out their several properties and capacities , and use them accordingly ; and this kind of service was mentioned in their respective leases as one condition of the grants . 
They had , during Mr. Bull 's sickness and delirium , before spoken of , formed an association for their mutual safety . 
Another tradition was , that one of Mr. Bull 's great great uncles , by the name of Madok , had many years ago disappeared , and the last accounts which had been received of him was , that he had been seen going towards this forest ; hence it was concluded that his descendants must be found there . 
TheForesters knew that they could not ingratiate themselves better with their old master Bull , than by humouring his itch for projects . 
Bull was greatly pleased with these reports , and made a practice of sending presents of trinkets to be distributed among them ; such as collars , earrings , and nosejewels . 
It is not many years since one of them , after being led through several families and plantations of the tenants , was carried home to Mr. Bull 's own house , dressed in the habit of a clergyman , having been previously taught to lift his paw and roll his eyes as if in the act of devotion . 
Mr. Bull himself was once so full of the project , that he got his chaplain and some others to form themselves into a club ; the professed object of which , was to propagate knowledgeamong these savage creatures . 
After some trials which did not answer expectation , old Madam Bull conceived that the money which was collected might as well be expended in teaching Mr. Bull 's own tenants themselves a little better manners ; for some of them were rather awkward and slovenly in their deportment , while others were decent and devout in their own way . 
It is not many years since they , with the club which sent them , were pretty severely handled by one of Codline 's own chaplains , and it is supposed that they have ever since been more modest ; certain it is that they are now on better terms with their neighbors than formerly ; this may , in part , be owing to Mr. Bull 's deserting them and refusing to pay them for their services ever since the time that he began to quarrel with his tenants . 
I HAVE observed , in a former letter , that the lease which Mr. Bull gave to Charles Indigo , obliged him to receive into his family all such persons as had been attendants on Mr. Bull during his sickness , and for whom he had no other means of providing . 
-LSB- 34 -RSB- The poor fellows , to prevent worse treatment , fled from his house , and took refuge with Mr. Bull , who treated them civilly , and recommended them to the Forest , where they dispersed themselves in the several families of his tenants , and a large party of them took up their abode with Charles , to whom they proved an industrious , profitable acquisition , though some of the family looked a little sourly upon them . 
Farther discovery of the lands , and the advantage of the water carriage , induced some other people to sit down by him , and in process of time he became so respectable as to be noticed by Mr. Bull , who , though he never gave him a lease in form , yet let him have cloth and haberdashery upon credit , and took his pitch in payment as fast as he could collect it . 
This kept him in a dependent state , and subjected him to impositions from Bull 's clerks and journeymen . 
About twenty years ago , Bull sent him a taylor to try ona new coat , -LSB- 36 -RSB- which was so strait that it split in several places , and never could be altered so as to fit him ; but he was obliged to wear it rather than quarrel with his patron . 
Bythe extensive lease given to Indigo and his associates , most of Mr. Bull 's dependants and attendants were provided for , and their services recompensed with a shew of generosity on his part , and of satisfaction on theirs . 
Hisfather had been an old servant of Mr. Bull , and had been employed in the very laborious and necessary business of catching and killing rats . 
In this employment he was so very dexterous and successsul , that he recommended himself highly to his master , who not only allowed him large wages , but promised him farther recompense . 
During Mr. Bull 's sickness , the care and diligence of this faithful servant had been unremitted , and his merits were thereby increased , so that Mr. Bull , on his recovery , found himself deeply indebted to him , and he still continued his services ; till worn out with age and infirmity , he died and had an honorable funeral . 
Hisson William then became his heir , and solicited for payment of the arrears due to his father , which Mr. Bull , according to the maxim he had laid down for himself , and urged by the necessity of the occasion , proposed to discharge by a lease of part of the Forest . 
Aboutthis time a nervous disorder appeared in Bull 's family , which went by the name of the shaking palsy . 
When he found a change in the behaviour of these domestics ; that instead of bowing to him they stood upright as a maypole , and instead of Sir , and your Honor , they could utter nothing but Friend , he grew angry , and made a pretty free use of his fist ; and when he found that they could not be cured by such means , he thrust some of them into a dark closet , and shut them up till they should , as he termed it , `` learn better manners ; '' and it is supposed he would have carried his resentment much further , but for this circumstance ; William Broadbrim , who had himself strong symptoms of the disorder , whispered to Mr. Bull , that if he would give him time to ripen a project , which he had conceived , he would rid him of all trouble with these people . 
Bull , who was glad to get rid of them , and of the debt which he owed to William , readily fell in with the project ; and a grant was made out under hand and seal , wherein William Broadbrim , and his heirs , were invested with the right of soil , and all other privileges of proprietorship , in a certain part of the forest , between the plantation of Marygold and that of Cartrut and Bareclay , being in the neighborhood of the spot where Casimir had rebuilt his hut , and lived in an ambiguous situation , not knowing who was his landlord . 
Mr. Bull 's second sickness , and second marriage . 
-- His project of making a new plantation . 
Duringthe time of which we have been speaking , Mr. John Bull had undergone another sickness , -LSB- 40 -RSB- not so long nor so violent as the former , but much more beneficial in its effects . 
His new physicians had administered medicines which composed his nerves ; he eat , drank , and slept more regularly ; and he was advised to marry again , for his former wife had died of a consumption a little before this sickness came on . 
By these means his vigour was renewed , but still his whimsical disposition remained , and broke out on several occasions . 
When he viewed his extensive forest , now planted and thriving , under the honest hand of industry , he thought within himself that still greater advantages might be derived from that territory . 
There was yet a part of it unsettled between the plantation of Charles Indigo , and the dominions of Lord Strut ; and Bull thought it a pity to let so much remain a wilderness . 
`` Now , said Bull , if these fellows have done so well , and got so far aforehand , without having any capital of their own to begin with , what can not be done by the force of my great capital ? 
-- Having hit upon this project , his brains immediately became pregnant with ideas ; but according to the rule which he had lately prescribed to himself , he communicated the matter to his wife . 
Butnotwithstanding the sums which Bull so freely lavished out of his bags for the support of the vine and mulberry plantations ; and notwithstanding the collections which Squintum made among his numerous devotees , these projects were either so impracticable in themselves , or so ill conducted in the execution , that neither of them answered the expectations of the projectors . 
Poor George Trusty was discouraged , and begged Mr. Bull to take the plantation into his own hands ; however , Bull continued to supply him with cash , and he kept making attempts . 
Alterations were made in the terms of settlement , the restrictions were removed , cattle and grog were allowed , Lord Strut was ousted , and possession held ; the swamps were drained ; rice and indigo were cultivated instead of silk and wine ; and upon the whole , considerable improvements were made , though at such a vast expense , that Mr. Bull never saw any adequate returns . 
Theill success of this adventure did not deter him from another project . 
He was extremely fond of Trout , -LSB- 42 -RSB- and thought if he could have them regularly catched and brought to his table , he should exceed all his neighbours in delicate living ; and now and then be able to send a mess to his particular friends . 
Lord Peter 's family too , he thought , would be glad to buy them , as they were very useful in the long lents , and frequent meagre days observed by them . 
† It had been occupied by Alexander Scotus , a purblind fellow , who had straggled thither no one could tell how ; and it was matter of doubt whether he derived his right from Bull , or Lewis ; for both of them laid claim to the land , and their claims had not been fairly decided in law . 
To make sure of the matter , Mr. Bull , by advice of his wife , sent a waggon to bring off the family of Scotus , whom he distributed a mong the other families of his tenants ; and in their room sent thither -LSB- 43 -RSB- a parcel of naked , half starved people , who could live no where else , and supported them for several years with provisions , furnished them with skiffs , lines , hooks and other implements to carry on the fishery ; but every trout which they catched , cost him ten times as much as if he had bought it in the common market ; nor could he , after all , get half what he wanted for his own consumption . 
His trout fishery , and his mulberry plantation , rendered him the laughing stock of his neighbours , nor could he ever gain even the interest of the money he had laid out upon them ; while the foresters who had settled at their own expense , grew rich and became respectable . 
He had indeed , the benefit of their trade , which kept his journeymen at work , and obliged him to enlarge their number ; for the foresters had a respect for their old master and landlord , and when they had any thing to sell , they always let him have the refusal of it , and bought all their goods of him . 
Had he been contented with the profits of their trade , as was certainly his interest , they might have remained his tenants to this day ; but ambition , avarice , jealousy and choler , inflamed by bad counsellors , have wrought such a separation , that it is thought Mr. Bull will go mourning all the remainder of his days , and his grey hairs will be brought down with sorrow to the grave . 
Mr. Bull 's quarrel and lawsuit with Lewis and Lord Strut . 
-- He gains possession of the whole Forest . 
Mr. Bull had no less than fourteen tenants who held under him , and were settled on lands which he claimed as his own , and which he had granted to them in separate parcels . 
I can not tell whether it was owing to their being employed in business to which they had not served a regular apprenticeship , or to a natural indolence , and a disposition to continue hangers on where they had got a good hold ; for it must be noted , that Mr. Bull was very generous to some persons , and on some occasions where it suited his fancy , and this disposition in him was so prevalent , that they who kenned him , and would humor his whims , could work him out of any thing which they had a mind to . 
They all seemed to have an affection for Mr. Bull , and it was generally believed to be sincere . 
His house was usually spoken of by them as their home . 
His ware house was the centre of their traffic ; and he had the address to engross the profits of their labour and draw their earnings into his own fob . 
To some of them he would now and then make a present , to others he would lend a pack of his hounds , -LSB- 44 -RSB- when he was out of the humor of hunting ; but they were generally useless to them for the purpose of scouring the woods , those who could afford it kept dogs of their own , who were better trained to the game , and could better scent the forest , being native curs , and not so spruce and delicate a breed as Bull 's grey-hounds . 
Ithas been before observed , that each end of the forest was occupied by Bull 's rivals . 
His old neighbour Lewis had got the north end , and Lord Strut the south . 
Bull 's tenants had seated themselves chiefly on or near the shore of the lake , and had not extended very far back , because of the beasts of prey ; but Lewis , like a cunning old fox , had formed a scheme to get footing in the interior parts of the country , and prevent these planters from penetrating beyond the limits which he intended to assign them . 
Itwas matter of wonder among Bull 's tenants , for some time , what could be the reason that the wild beasts had grown more surly and snappish of late than formerly ; but after a while , some hunters made a discovery of the new lodges , which the emissaries of Onontio had erected , and the design of them being apparent , a general alarm was raised in the plantations . 
Atthis time , the steward , to whom Mr. Bull entrusted the care of his business , was not a person of that discernment and expedition which the exigency of affairs required . 
He had committed divers blunders in his accounts , and it was suspected that he was a defaulter in more respects than one . 
It can not , therefore , be expected , that in conducting a controversy of this magnitude , he should exactly hit on the right methods , nor employ the best council which could be had . 
† Not only the foresters themselves , but even Bull 's own domes tics , complained bitterly of these ineffectual measures , and their clamors at last prevailed to make him discharge his old steward , and put another into his place . 
The new officer -LSB- 48 -RSB- soon changed the face of affairs ; he employed no attorneys , nor bailiffs , but those of tried and approved abilities , men of enterprize and resolution , by whom the suit was prosecuted in good earnest . 
In every action Bull recovered judgment , and got possession . 
When Lord Strut came in to the aid of Lewis , Bull cast him also , and took away his manor of Augustine , which , with the whole tract of land , where Onontio presided , was annexed to his estate . 
The agents who had been employed in this arduous service , were not only well paid for doing their duty , but , with the steward , who employed them , were honored according to the ancient , but whimsical custom of Bull 's family , by having their effigies portrayed on sign boards , pocket handkerchiefs , snuff boxes , and punch bowls ; so that while the fit lasted , you could not walk the streets , nor blow your nose , nor take a pinch of snuff , nor a draught of punch , but you were obliged to salutethem . 
The steward was so sensible of their merit , that on due consultation with Mr. Bull 's wife , and her taking him in the right mood , he was prevailed upon to reimburse the extra expense to them , and mutual complacency reigned between the landlord and tenants all the time this steward remained in office . 
At this time Mr. Bull was so much off his guard , as to give heed to these reports , and take a rash step in a hurry , which he had occasion to repent of at his leisure . 
He accepted the resignation of this trusty servant , and put one of his -LSB- 49 -RSB- sister Peg 's cast off footmen into his place ; whereby he laid a foundation for his own disgrace , and the dismemberment of his estate , of which I shall give you a particular account hereafter . 
Mr. Bull gets into debt , and by the advice of his new wife and her gambling companions , begins a quarrel with his tenants . 
Totrace with precision all the causes , great and small , which operated to the dismemberment of John Bull 's estate , would be no easy task ; some of them perhaps , were secret , but of such , as were open to observation , we shall endeavour to sketch out the principal . 
Whenthe forest was first occupied by the tenants , Bull had a wife -LSB- 50 -RSB- who minded her own domestic business , and did not concern herself with his landed interest . 
The leases and grants were made out in hisname , and he was supposed to be the owner or proprietor ; but the lady whom he had married after his second sickness was very assuming , and insisted on having herhand in the management of allhis affairs . 
Itmust be observed , also , that this woman had engaged Mr. Bull in some expensive lawsuits and speculations , which had got him deeply into debt , and he was obliged to hire money of usurers to carry her schemes into execution . 
In short , Mr. Bull was reduced to that humiliating condition , which , by whatever fashionable name it may now go , was formerly called petticoat-government . 
Many of Bull 's servants and retainers , who were employed as bailiffs and attornies , and their deputies , had been very conversant with them , and were entertained at their houses , where they always found wholesome victuals , jolly fire sides , and warm beds . 
Some of them would say : `` Those fellows live too well in the forest ; they thrive too fast ; the place is too good for them ; they ought to know who is their master ; they can afford to pay more rent ; they ought to pay for the help they have had ; if it had not been for Master Bull , and the assistance which he has lent them , they would have been turned out of doors ; and now they are to reap the benefit of his exertions , while he , poor man , is to pay the cost . '' 
Therewere not wanting some , in the families of the Foresters themselves , who had the meanness to crouch to these fellows , and supplicate their favour and interest with Mr. Bull , to recommend them to some posts of profit , as understewards , collectors of rent , clerks of receipts , and the like pretty offices . 
Suchspeeches as those were frequently made , and such letters read , in the hearing of Mr. Bull 's wife and steward . 
Their language grew by degrees to be the current language of the family , and Bull himself listened to it . 
His choler rose upon the occasion , and when his hangers on observed it , they plied him with stronger doses , till his jealousy and hatred were excited , and a complete revolution in his temper , with regard to his tenants , took place , agreeably to the most sanguine and malevolent wishes of his and their enemies . 
Thefirst effect of this change was , that his clerks were ordered to charge not only the prices of the goods , which the tenants should purchase , but to make them pay for the paper -LSB- 52 -RSB- on which their bills of parcels and notes of hand were written , and that at a very exorbitant rate . 
This was so intolerable an abuse , and withal so mean , pitiful , and beggarly an expedient to pick their pockets , that they held a meeting among themselves , and resolved not to buy any more of his goods , as long as this imposition lasted ; and by way of contempt , they hanged and burned the effigies of the steward , and other persons who were suspected of having advised to these new measures . 
Bull 's journeymen were in an uproar about it , left by the failure of his trade , they should be out of bread ; and to shorten the story , he was obliged to give up the point of making them pay for the paper , though Madamhad the singular modesty to make a declaration , that it was a mere matter of expediency , and that she had the sole power and right of dominion over them , notwithstanding Mr. Bull 's most graciousconcession at that time . 
-LSB- 53 -RSB- Thiswas considered by the tenants as a most impudent and barefaced assumption ; for whatever rights Mr. Bull might pretend to have , as their old master and landlord , yet they never had any idea of a mistressover them ; and though they very complaisantly returned him their thanks for his present goodness , yet as they suspected that there was more mischief hatching , they began to inquire more narrowly than ever into his right and title to the land , on which they lived . 
They looked over old parchments and memorandums , consulted council learned in the law , and after due deliberation , they were fully convinced , that their owntitle was , at least , as good as his , and that they had a right to refuse him any rent or acknowledgment , if it were prudent for them to exercise it . 
Mr. Bull 's jealousy was now increased with regard to their intentions , and his scribbling retainers frequently accused them of ingratitude and disobedience , and a long premeditated design to set up for independence ; a thing which they had not yet thought of , and probably never would , if this abusive treatment had not put it into their heads . 
Duringthis sullen interval , many letters passed , many books and precedents were examined , and much ink was shed , in a controversy , which , however incapable of a decisionin this way , might have been compromised , if Mr. Bull 's first thoughts had been as good as his second ; but he was so completely under management , as not to see his true interest . 
It was a common saying among his neighbors , `` John Bull 's wit comes afterward ; '' and in fact it did not come in this case , till too late , for , when a cause once gets into the law , there are so many quirks , evasions , demurs , and procrastinations , that it is impossible to make a retreat , till one or both of the parties have severely smarted for their temerity . 
Mr. Bull attempts a new mode of traffic which disgusts his tenants . 
-- They refuse to receive his presents . 
-- His singular resentment against John Codline , and the effects which it produced . 
I will give it to you as briefly as so long and intricate a matter will bear to be told ; and I am apprehensive you will think that Mr. Bull was so ill a politician , or so badly advised , as actually to pick a quarrel with his best customers . 
Know then , that by the advice of his dear wife and her gambling junto , Mr. Bull was prevailed upon to send a dozen pounds of tea to each of his tenants , as a present , in token of his extreme good will to them , and because he knew that they loved it , and at the same time to order his clerks to charge three penceper pound for the paper and pack thread in which this exhilarating weed was wrapped . 
This trifling sum he expected would be paid on demand , in acknowledgment of their good will to him as their kind and generous landlord , who had protected and defended them against all opposers , and would still continue to protect and defend them as his beloved children and obedient humble servants . 
Theknowledge of his intention happened to come to them sooner than the present , and they began to argue thus among themselves -- `` Ha ! 
If Mr. Bull really intends the tea as a prefent , why does he exact three pence ? 
Had he offered it to us as an article of merchandise as usual , we might have taken it if we had liked the price , or left it if we had not ; but this is a new way of trading to which we have not been accustomed . 
We will have none of your presents , Mr. Bull , if this is to be the consequence . 
Oneof them came to Charles Indigo 's house , and with Mr. Bull 's compliments begged his acceptance of a package of tea -- `` Throw it into that cellar , said Charles , and let it lie there till I have considered of the matter . '' 
John Codlinehad the greatest difficulty about Mr. Bull 's present . 
He would gladly have sent back the messenger , but unluckily for him the gate which led to his house was held fast by Bull 's under steward , who constantly watched and attended there to observe who went in and out , which service he was more particularly fond of , because he expected a douceur for opening and shutting the gate . 
Having admitted the messenger and received his penny , he stiffly refused to let him out again without having delivered the present . 
The see was tendered , but this could not prevail ; the family were uneasy , they were loth to assront Mr. Bull , and yet determined not to receive his present . 
They could not account for the conduct of the understeward on any other principle than this , that he expected to get a share of the three penceper pound , and of all other profits arising from future presents ; and was afraid he should lose it if he let the messenger return . 
They were driven at length to an extremity and threw the tea into the vault , where it perished , at the same time protesting that the whole blame ought to be charged on the under steward , as they had no intention of injuring Mr. Bull if they could have avoided it . 
As soon as this was known in Mr. Bull 's family , his wife fell into a violent hysteric fit , and in her raving phrenzy denounced all the vengeance which it was in her power to execute , on these refractory , ungrateful tenants , who would not accept a present when it was so freely offered to them . 
But when she came a little to herself , she was persuaded by her gambling companions not to attempt any thing against the whole body of the tenants , lest they should be driven by necessity to form an union among themselves , which might defeat the plan ; she therefore proposedto Mr. Bull to single out oneof the most refractory of them , and shew his resentment in a particular manner to him , hoping that the others would be intimidated and let him suffer alone , and be glad to get off so well themselves . 
This , it was thought , would strengthen the authority of the under steward who had the key of the gate , and would reduce the family to this dilemma , either to receive no company and carry on no business , or else to submit to Mr. Bull 's new mode of trading . 
Thereason assigned for this particular mode of revenge was , that Mr. Bull , as lord of the manor , claimed a kind of sovereign right to the high way . 
He had for a long time exacted an acknowledgment from all passengers ; whenever they happened to meet any of his horses or carriages on the road , whether he was there himself or not , they were obliged to dousethe hat , or they might be sure of receiving a stroke of the whip , if not of being run down by his servants , who had special orders not to let any omission of this nature pass unpunished . 
Inconsequence of this manœuvre on the part of Mr. Bull , every person who had any business to do with John Codline was stopped in the road , and ordered to go back , or pass by like the Priest and Levite , on the other side . 
Thisspecies of punishment exposed Mr. Bull to the ridicule of all his neighbors . 
It also proved quite ineffectual to the purpose for which he designed it . 
Ithas been observed , that one advantage which Mr. Bull expected would arise from this specimen of his refinedpolicy was , that it would disunite the tenants , and frighten some or perhaps all the others into a compliance with the new mode of traffic . 
Thisfable , and the moral couched under it , raised a great deal of vain expectation and triumph in the family of Mr. Bull ; but the foresters had another of their own making , which was a match for it . 
Inprosecution of the former part of their plan , they wrote letters to Mr. Bull , and to several members of his family ; and with respect to the latter part , they came to a resolution to buy nothing more of him till he should change his mode of conduct , and treat them as he had formerly done . 
Influencedby her passions , Mr. Bull 's choler rose to the highest pitch . 
Onthe other hand , the foresters finding that Mr. Bull had retained so many learned counsellors , sergeants and barristers in his service , and that he had by far the longest purse , were obliged to use the greatest economy in conducting their defence . 
Thiscircumstance was predicted in the hearing of Mr. Bull 's wife , by a very learned and honest gentleman , who would have dissuaded her from giving her husband such bad advice as to plunge himself into that `` deep ditch , '' the law , out of which there is no coming till the last farthing be paid . 
But the prediction was fully verified when this lawsuit brought to the bar one from his farm , and another from his merchandise , one from his shed , and another from his shop , † till in fact they became a match , in point of numbers at least , for the whole host of Mr. Bull 's attornies . 
In this way of proceeding , Mr. Bull acted like that species of dog which bears his name , and which is known to attack his enemy by the head . 
Thecause was learnedly argued at the Court of Bunker hall , and the arguments in favour of the foresters made a very unexpected and very deep impression on the managers for Mr. Bull . 
After a long time they contrived to shift their ground , -LSB- 55 -RSB- and let John alone . 
They advised Mr. Bull to send for some lawyers out of Germany , who had been more used to this game , and to lay an attachment on the estate of Peter Bullfrog , and the farm called Cæsarea ; where they expected to gain some greater advantage , partly because the tenancy was different , being founded on courtesy and not on lease , and partly because of the diffentions which they heard were subsisting in these families . 
In this interval also Madam Bull 's resentment was raised so high , that she swore point blank that not one of these refractory scoundrels should enter her husband 's doors nor have the least connection with him , but that she would drive them off from the land , and repeople the forest with another set of men . 
Whenthey had heard of this resolution , the heads of all the families in one of their consultations , came to a determination to publish an advertisement , setting forth the various abuses and grievances which they had suffered from Mr. Bull , his wife , and her junto ; and declaring that they looked upon the country as their own , and themselves as free from any obligations to him , and at liberty to look out for other markets , and invite other merchants to form connexions with them . 
At length a vaunting braggadocio of a barrister on Mr. Bull 's side , who thought to carry all before him , was so completely answered and confuted in an obstinate argument , that a verdict was given at Saratogahall in favour of those plantations , which had been sued for in the northern part of the manor . 
Theunfortunate barrister was severely reflected on by Mr. Bull 's wife , for not doing his duty ; and he was obliged to justify himself by producing his instructions , and by telling a number of serious truths respecting the forest and the foresters , which Mrs. Bull had often heard before but would not believe . 
The Foresters apply for help to Mr. Lewis -- are first treated with evasion -- afterward obtain their request -- Alarm in Mr. Bull 's family -- His conference with his wife -- Her manæuvres upon the occasion -- Disappointed by the inflexibility of the Foresters . 
These old curmudgeons , though each of them looked with an envious eye on Mr. Bull , and secretly wished he might lose the cause , yet were induced by various considerations to evade the question proposed to them by the foresters . 
They offer to mortgage the manor to us , but the title is yet in dispute , and how do we know whether it be theirs or Mr. Bull 's ? '' 
Thischange in the sentiments and language of Mr. Lewis was immediately made known to Mr. Bull , by means of some running sootmen , who frequently carried news from one house to the other . 
She therefore held a curtainconference with Mr. Bull on the subject , thus -- Mrs. B.Well , my dear , what do you think of the conduct of your neighbour Lewis ? 
But they received it with contempt , and gave no other answer to it than this , `` Let Mr. Bull withdraw his action and clear the road , and we will talk with him ; but as to his wife , we will have nothing to do with her . '' 
He was accounted the finest gentleman in the whole country , and all the stories which they had heard of him through the medium of Bull 's family , were set down as lies . 
He was regarded as the protector of the injured , the helper of the distressed , and the friend of the rights of mankind . 
Whilethe praises of Lewis were thus echoed from house to house , the deputies of Madam Bull arrived . 
-- Mr. Bull ' sreal friends interpose , and convince his wife of her error . 
-- She advises him to compromise the matter -- He signs a quitclaim of the Forest . 
The former imagined that it was Mr. Bull 's intention to call in Lord Peter to his aid , because he had been of late somewhat complaisant to those of his natural children , which resided in the family ; and the latter expected that he should be treated in the same manner as the foresters , because he had complained of some restraints and impositions from his brother John Bull , in respect to his trade and business , which was that of a linen draper . 
The dogs in Peg 's family kept a constant howling and barking , and were answered by those of Mr. Bull . 
Several of them actually ran mad , -LSB- 58 -RSB- and Bull was obliged to place guards at his doors and gates , who attacked the curs with clubs and killed several on the spot . 
In the midst of this hurly burly , his house was set on fire , and was actually seen blazing in thirty six places at once ; -LSB- 59 -RSB- the fire even penetrated madam 's drawing room , and her card party were obliged to hand buckets and pump the engine ; and it was not without the greatest exertions that the whole mansion was saved from utter destruction . 
The measure which Mr. Bull had adopted of stopping the high way provoked all the neighbours , who thought it a great infringement of their common rights ; but as he was a person of so much wealth and power , they were afraid openly to contest that point with him . 
At length an elderly widow lady , of large property , with whom he had always lived on friend ly terms , and who generally went by the name of Madam Kate , took the liberty to tell him , that she could no longer suffer her neighbours and herself to be so imposed upon ; that the high way was common to all ; that he had no right to stop passengers and examine them , but that every body ought to go about their lawful business without let or hindrance , and that she was determined to form a combination -LSB- 60 -RSB- with Mr. Frog , Mr. Lewis , Lord Strut , and all the other neighbours , to remove the incumbrances which Mr. Bull had thrown in the way , and clear the passage . 
They were all disposed to help the foresters against Mr. Bull , though in different ways . 
At the same time he attached one of Mr. Bull 's favourite hunting seats , -LSB- 61 -RSB- which commanded an extensive prospect , and was situate extremely convenient for hunting , fowling , and fishing . 
It had formerly belonged to Strut , but he had foolishly lost it by staking it in a game of whist , which he played with Mr. Bull . 
It was a doubt in law whether real estate could be held by such tenure , but Bull had possession , and that you know is eleven points of the law . 
At any rate , it would oblige Bull to defend ; and that would cost him money , and divert some at least of his lawyers from the business of the forest . 
Bull had suspected it , but could not prove it , till one night , his myrmidons caught a messenger from the forest and searched his pockets , -LSB- 62 -RSB- in which were found certain letters and other papers , which were supposed to amount to full evidence . 
To make short work with Frog , Mr. Bull got a search warrant , and sent a bailiff to his richest warehouse , -LSB- 63 -RSB- who entered it , per fas aut nefas , tumbled over the merchandise under pretence of searching for stolen goods ; and having taken away as many as he pleased , by a writ of venditioni exponas , he put them up at auction , and it is said made a fortune by this job . 
Mr. Lewis was so exasperated at the outrage thus committed on his friend Frog , that by a writ of scire faciashe laid claim to the ware house and its contents , and brought in Bull for damages . 
Inshort , Mr. Bull now found himself soused over head and ears in that `` deep ditch , '' the law . 
Like Ishmael of old , his hand was against every man , and every man 's hand against him . 
Look which way soever he would , he found enemies , and his own family were continually buzzing in his ears that he would bring his affairs to ruin . 
No less than four years longer were consumed in this expensive quarrel , and Mr. Bull 's numerous retinue of lawyers were employing themselves in the various chicanery and tergiversations of their profession , all the while fattening on the profits of the suit ; whilst his debt was growing at such a rate that he was at his wit 's end to keep the interest from accumulating as well as the principal . 
This verdict came so near to a final decision , that all Mr. Bull 's friends were convinced he could no longer maintain an action against the foresters ; and some trusty old servants ventured to whisper in madam 's ear that it was high time to end the controversy , for that it could not possibly be carried any farther without bringing the family and the trade to total ruin . 
She saw that it was in vain to contend against the opinions of all mankind , and therefore in her next curtain lecture she held a short dialogue with Mr. Bull , thus -- Mrs. B. Mydear , I have been thinking whether it would not be best for you to come to a settlement of this long controversy . 
Bull had taken the matter into consideration , he thought it best to wait the issue of the suit with Lord Strut about the hunting seat , for he was loth to lose that ; and happily for him , when that cause came to tryal , it was argued so forcibly by his lawyers , that Strut was obliged to give it up . 
As soon as Bull heard of that , he cried out , `` Now is the moment of victory -- now is the time for peace . '' 
So calling one of his clerks , `` Here , says he , go and settle the matter with the foresters , or their deputies , on the best terms that you can . '' 
The deputies and the clerk soon came to an agreement , and a quitclaim deed was drawn , describing the butts and bounds of the forest , and distinguishing what he gave up to them from what he retained . 
This quitclaim being properly engrossed , he with a trembling hand and aching heart subscribed it , while madam , standing behind him , could not help shedding a tear at the sight of a transaction to which she would never have consented but from dire necessity . 
But I will now go back to tell you something of the manner in which the foresters managed their domestic affairs during the controversy with Mr. Bull , and for some time after it was closed . 
Whenthey had broken their connexion with him , it was uncertain what connexions they might form abroad , but it was judged expedient for them to be united among themselves , that no one family should connect itself in trade with any merchant or factor , without the consent of the others . 
Thoughfor a while , and during the period of the lawsuit , when common danger impelled them to keep themselves close together , this plan answered the end better than none ; yet in factthe notion of independencehad so intoxicated their minds , that having cast off their dependence on Mr. Bull , they thought themselves independent of all the world beside . 
When they had got entirely clear of the controversy with him , they were in the condition of a young heir just come of age , who feels proud of his freedom , and thinks he has a right to act without control . 
John at first tried to silence them by gentle means , but finding these ineffectual , he at length drew his scymitar , and swore he would cut off the ears of the first that should dare to make any more noise . 
He had ferved them so faithfully and generously in conducting the lawfuit against Mr. Bull , that no person was higher in their confidence . 
As he would take no reward for his former services ; so he began this new business with a declaration of the same kind , and a protestation that nothing could have induced him to quit the sweets of retirement for the toils of public business but a disposition to oblige his numerous friends who had united their suffrages in his favour . 
Every one who knows him is fully convinced of the sincerity of his declarations , and he has perhaps as large a share of the esteem and affection of the people in these families as any person ever could expect from a course of faithful and friendly offices . 
The under steward is a person of a grave deportment , much reading and strict integrity , and was largely concerned in effecting the compromise with Mr. Bull . 
By his advice the debts of the company are put in a fair way of being paid , though some grumbling still subsists among those who were obliged to sell their notes at a discount . 
Present State of Mr. Bull . 
-- His wife and bis mother . 
To begin with Mr. Bull . 
Though he has given a quitclaim of that part of the forest where his old servants and best customers have possession , yet he retains the northern part , together with some hunting feats which he promisedto give up to the foresters . 
The chief produce of this northern territory is the furs , which are brought to his warehouse and wrought up by his tradesmen . 
Notwithstanding the loss of his title to the lands of the foresters , they have not wholly forsaken him as a trader . 
He keeps his fulling mills at work , and supplies them with cloths of various kinds , but they feel themselves at liberty either to purchase of him or his neighbours , or to manufacture for themselves . 
He is rather more complaisant to them in his own shop than his factors are in some of his distant warehouses , where they are not allowed to carry their produce to market , nor to receive cossee , cotton , and sugar , as formerly . 
However , they have found out other places where they can buy these commodities without asking his permission . 
I HAVE before told you that Mr. Bull formerly used to send the orduremade in his family to enrich the plantations of the foresters ; but since his quarrel with them he has been somewhat at a loss how to dispose of it . 
At first he threw it into the gutter -LSB- 66 -RSB- before his door . 
He then thought of sending it to a place where some of his family had been employed in botanizing , † in hope that by adding to the fertility of the soil , they would find more encouragement to prosecute their inquiries , and that he should in time receive some rent or recompense ; but this scheme , like some others , the product of his fruitful brain , has been hitherto attended with more cost than profit . 
What will be his next contrivance to dispose of his ordure no one can conjecture . 
Hehas been obliged , in deference to the opinion of his neighbours , to sing smallabout his right to stopping the high way ; and it is thought that he will not revive his pretensions to an exclusive title to that kind of sovereignty . 
As to his domestic affairs , his wifestill rules him according to her usual maxims , and keeps up her gaming club , where she wins and loses alternately ; but between the shop and the drawing room , there is enough gained to pay the interest of his debt , though it is not imagined he will ever be able to pay the principal . 
This , like a millstone about his neck , must finally sink him . 
Youmay possibly be curious to know what is become of his mother , whom I have formerly mentioned to you as having had some sway in his family . 
The truth is , that since he married his present wife , the old lady found her influence decreasing and retired to her chamber , where she has been for many years confined , and is now wholly bed rid . 
Somepersons of an incredulous turn of mind , have pretended to call in question this mystery ; but it is still held sacred by the old lady , and by most of Mr. Bull 's own family . 
It was not long after the reestablishment of harmony between them and Mr. Bull , that these persons sent two candles in one lantern , and one in another , to be lighted at this venerable taper , and dipt in the consecrated water . 
Two of them were actually lighted in old Madam Bull 's presence , and to her great satisfaction . 
