This attracting the quickened attention of Mr. and Mrs. Elwood , the former left his companion , and was threading his way through the throng , when he was met by a servant , who in a flurried under-tone said : `` There is out here at the door , Mr. Elwood , a sort of a countryfied , odd-looking old fellow , in rusty brown clothes , that has been insisting on coming in , without being invited here to-night , and without telling his business or even giving his name . 
And he pressed so hard that we had to drive him back off the steps ; but he refused to go away , even then , and kept asking where Mark was . '' 
Mark Elwood drew a long breath as he was thus relieved of the other 's presence , and was leaving the room , when Mrs. Elwood , who had felt much disturbed at discovering among her guests one of whose questionable character and connection with her husband she was already apprised , and who , from an adjoining apartment , had caught a slight glimpse of the meeting just described , and enough of the conversation to enable her to guess at its import , hurriedly came forward , and , in a voice tremulous from suppressed emotion , said : `` You surely are not going out to-night , Mr. Elwood ? '' 
`` Mr. Elwood , I must be heard , '' persisted the troubled and anxious wife . 
O Mr. Elwood , how can you let that bad man -- '' `` Hush ! 
Here is a note of your signing , Mr. Elwood , -- a debt of honor , -- for a couple of hundreds , contracted in this very room , you will remember . 
`` Claud ? '' 
You know it has happened that I have never seen him . '' 
`` I do know it , and have much regretted his absence ; for I wished you to see him . 
But I am now looking for him every hour , and if you could delay -- '' `` No , no , I must go . 
Tell him to forget , at once , that he was ever a rich man 's only son and heir , and learn to profit by a rich man 's errors ; for , till he does this , which , if he is like others , will require some time , he will make no real advance in life . '' 
Claud is a man now . '' 
I will inquire about him , however , as indeed I will about you all . 
now no longer her own , -- suddenly caught her ear ; when , with the exclamation , `` Claud , O Claud ! '' 
she rushed forward to her advancing son , and , to use the expressive language of Scripture , `` fell on his neck and wept . '' 
Half my nights , for months , Claud , have been made sleepless by the bodings and fears of the evil day , which , as things were going , I felt must eventually come ; but never , till within this very hour , did I dream that our misfortunes were so near . 
`` I do not , Claud . 
`` No , Claud , no . 
On entering the room , therefore , after saluting his wife and son in a sort of brisk , unconcerned manner , and muttering that he `` thought they would never let him get home again , '' he eagerly inquired for Arthur ; and , on being informed that his brother had started for his home , without leaving any note or word for him , and especially on being told by his son -- as he at length calmly and persistingly was , in despite of his multiplied prevarications and denials , what they all knew , and what he himself should have been the last to be ignorant of -- that the question of his failure , for more than he could ever pay , had already been settled against him , he became frantic in the outpourings of his rage , disappointment , and chagrin ; sometimes declaring that the world , grown envious of his prosperity , had all suddenly become his enemies , and grossly belied him ; sometimes savagely charging his brother , wife , and son with conspiring together against him ; and sometimes cursing his own blindness and folly . 
There I will go , contract for a lot of land , and prepare a home , leaving you , and Claud , if he shall decide for a woodman 's life , to come on and join me next summer . '' 
`` That Claud will do ; for he often declares himself disgusted with the trickery of trade , and to be longing for the country life of his boyhood . 
But here he comes , and can speak for himself . '' 
After a while he moved slowly towards the house , continuing his observations as he went , till he came near the open window at which Mrs. Elwood was sitting at her needle-work , from which she occasionally lifted her eyes , and glanced somewhat anxiously along the path leading down through the woods to a landing-place on the lake ; when , looking round and observing her husband standing near , giving token of being about to speak , she interposed and said : `` You have seen nothing of Claud , I suppose ? 
What can be the reason why he does not return ? 
He was to have been at home long before this , was he not ? '' 
`` Yes , '' carelessly replied Elwood , `` unless he concluded to take a bout in the woods . 
He took his fowling-piece with him , to use in case the trout would n't bite , you know . 
I presume Claud may have joined him . 
that sounded like Claud 's piece , '' he added , as the distant report of a gun rose from the woods westward of the lake and died away in swelling echoes on the opposite shore . 
he continued , as another and sharper report burst , the next moment , from the same locality , -- `` there goes another , but not his , as he could not have loaded so quick . 
`` But Claud may be there . '' 
`` Well , if he should be , the fire wo n't burn up the lake , I think ; and , if it besets the path in the woods , he can come round some other way , '' jocosely said Elwood , moving away to carry his purpose into execution . 
`` O , where is Claud ? 
where is Claud ? '' 
Yes , where was Claud ? 
Itwas about the middle of the forenoon , on the day marked by the incidents narrated in the preceding chapter , when Claud Elwood , who had become pretty well initiated into the sports of the locality , entered his light canoe , with his fishing-tackle and fowling-piece , and pushed out upon the broad bosom of the forest-girt Umbagog . 
Having had the best success , when up on the lake the last time , on the western margin , he pulled away in that direction , and , after rowing a couple of miles up the lake , he laid down his oar , unrolled his elm-bark cable , and let down his stone anchor , at a station a furlong or so from the shore . 
After thus slowly sweeping the horizon , to note , for the tenth time , perhaps , the impressive character of the scenery , whose everywhere intermingling beauty and grandeur he was never tired of contemplating , Claud withdrew his gaze , and turned his attention to the more immediate object of his excursion . 
After a few moments spent in regulating his hook and line , he strung his angle-rod , and threw out to see whether he could succeed in tempting , at that unfavorable hour , the fickle trout from their watery recesses . 
Not a trout was seen stirring the water at the surface , or manifesting his presence around the hook beneath ; and all the endeavors which the tantalized angler made , by changing the bait , and throwing the line in different directions around him , proved , for the next hour , equally fruitless . 
While he was thus engaged , intently watching his line , each moment expecting that the next must bring him a bite , one of those peculiar , subdued , but far-reaching sounds , which are made by the grazing of the oar against the side of the boat in rowing , occasionally greeted his ear from some point to the south of him ; though , for a while , nothing was to be seen to indicate by whom the sounds were produced . 
Soon , however , a man in a canoe , who had been coasting , unseen , along the indentures of the shore , and whom Claud instantly recognized as Phillips , the hunter already named , shot round a neighboring point , and , in a few minutes more , was at his side . 
`` None whatever , '' replied Claud , with an air of disappointment . 
So saying , the hunter dipped his springy oar into the water , and , with a few vigorous strokes , sent his canoe to the shore , and , having moored it to a root , he glided into the thickets , and disappeared with a tread so noiseless as to leave Claud , for many minutes , wholly in doubt whether the man was standing still in the bushes or proceeding on his excursion . 
It was now noon , and Claud , seeing no prospect of any immediate success in his piscatory employment , which had been made to appear to him , by the remarks of the hunter , more discouraging than ever , drew up his anchor , and rowed to a point of the shore which was embowered by a group of magnificent pines . 
Claud 's life had thus far been , in the main , a quiet and commonplace one ; nothing having occurred to him to arouse those strong and over-mastering passions to which it is the lot of most of us , at some period of our lives , to become subjected . 
It had been checkered , however , by one bit of romance , which , to say the least , had greatly excited his imagination . 
About a year previous to the time of which we are now writing , and one day while he was walking the streets of Boston , a small , closely-enwrapped package was put in his hand by an unknown boy , who , with the simple announcement , `` For you , Sir , '' turned quickly away , and made off with the air of one who has completed his mission , and would avoid being questioned . 
Glancing within the wrapper , and perceiving it inclosed a small encased picture , or likeness , of some female , which he thought must have been delivered to him through mistake , Claud looked hastily round for the messenger , and , not seeing him , he walked backward and forward along the street , and lingered some time in the vicinity , still expecting the boy would soon return to claim the package . 
Claud recoiled a step before the unaccustomed sound , and involuntarily cocked and raised his gun to his shoulder . 
But he was allowed no time to speculate . 
With a speed quickened at every step by the rapidly repeated cry of distress , he bounded towards the spot , when , turning the point of the knoll , he suddenly found himself in full view of the object of his solicitude , -- a girl , in the full bloom of youthful beauty , who , with bonnet thrown back and her loosened hair streaming in wild disorder over her shoulders , instantly rushed forward for his protection . 
claud stopped short , in mute surprise at the unexpected apparition ; for the first glance at her face told him that the original of his mysterious miniature was before him , -- before him , here in the woods ! 
Breathless and speechless in her wild affright , she pointed , with a glance over her shoulder , to a thick , high tangle of large , strongly limbed , knotty , windfallen trees , a short distance behind her , and fled past him to the rear . 
Claud instantly raised his piece , when , feeling uncertain of his aim , he withheld his fire , and stood waiting for a fairer view . 
But , before he could obtain it , the moose , tired of vain attempts to force his passage through the bristling barricade of logs and limbs before him , disappeared for one moment , but the next came crashing round the nearest end of it , and , with renewed demonstrations of rage and hostility , made directly for the new opponent he beheld in his way . 
Still unalarmed for his own safety , Claud waited with levelled gun till his formidable assailant was within forty yards of him , when he took a quick aim and fired . 
Reeling under the discharge of his heavily loaded piece , and blinded by the smoke , he could not , at first , see the effect of his fire ; but when he did so , the next instant , it was only to behold the monster brute , maddened , not stopped , by the flesh wounds inflicted , rushing on him with a force and fury which compelled him to leap suddenly aside , to avoid being beat into the earth by those terrible hoofs , which he saw lifted higher and higher , at each approaching step , for his destruction . 
Mindful , in his peril , of the precautions already learned from the hunters , Claude , while the moose , whose tremendous impetus was driving him straight ahead , could break up , so as to turn in the pursuit , -- Claud made , with all the speed of which he was master , for a huge hemlock , luckily standing at no great distance on his right ; a course which he thought would divert the monster from pursuit of the maiden , and , at the same time , best insure his own safety . 
`` I feel very grateful to you , Mr. Phillips , for this timely rescue , '' responded Claud , recovering his composure . 
`` Yes , and a bouncer at that , '' replied the hunter , going up and , placing his foot on the broad and still quivering flank of the huge animal . 
asked Claud . 
O yes , the young lady , '' said Claud , reminded of his duty as a gallant by the remark , though unwilling to appropriate to himself the prophetic joke with which it was coupled . 
persisted Claud . 
`` The raspberries , very likely , '' said the other , indifferently , while taking out and examining the edge of his knife . 
`` Perfectly willing , '' replied Claud , smiling ; `` and I would even take up with a smaller one . '' 
Each now taking to his canoe , they pushed out some twenty or thirty rods into the lake , cast anchor , and threw out their lines . 
Claud , who baited with grubs , soon had drawn in two , weighing as many pounds a piece , and began to feel disposed to banter the hunter , who had baited with a flap of moose-skin , which he had brought along with him , and which , to Claud , seemed little likely to attract the fishes to his hook . 
But he soon found himself mistaken ; for , turning to give utterance to what was passing in his mind , he beheld the other dallying with a trout , which he had hooked , and now held flapping on the surface of the water , evidently much larger than either of his own . 
cried Claud . 
asked Claud in surprise . 
Although loth to break off his sport , yet inwardly acknowledging the justness of the hunter 's philosophy , Claud reluctantly drew in and wound up his line , hauled in his anchor , and , handling his oar , shot out abreast of the other , who had already got under way , into the heaving waters of the now agitated lake . 
exclaimed Claud , starting back , with suspended oar , as now , coming out in view of the lake , his eye fell on the huge pillar of smoke , which , deeply enshrouding that part of the distant forest lying east of the outlet of the lake with its expanded base , was rolling upward its thousand dark , doubling folds ; `` good Heavens , Phillips , look yonder ! 
asked Claud , in alarm . 
And Mr. Elwood , who possessed none of those mental sympathies which , in some , will often be found unconsciously mingling with the thoughts of others , so far , at least , as to apprise them of the general character and drift of those thoughts , now , in his turn , wondered why his wife , as well as son , should all at once become so unsocial and taciturn . 
`` Claud will , doubtless , '' replied Mr. Elwood . 
`` Perhaps Claud , having had a fatiguing excursion yesterday , will stay at home , and let his father go , to-day , '' suggested Mrs. Elwood . 
`` It was not at all fatiguing , mother , '' responded Claud . 
Little more was said ; but the result was that Claud and the hunter now soon went off together on the proposed excursion . 
Led on by the hunter , all now started for the place just named , except Claud , who , under pretence of taking a short gunning bout in the woods , and of soon coming round to join his companions , proceeded , as soon as the latter were out of sight , with slow and hesitating steps , up the river , for the opening and supposed residence of the fair unknown who had so long been the object of his wondering fancies , and who had , notwithstanding the exciting scenes he had witnessed at home , been the especial subject of his dreams after he retired to rest the night before . 
He soon came to the clearing of which he was in quest , and obtained a clear view of the , to him , charmed cottage . 
But , instead of entering the opening directly , he went nearly round it , frequently pausing and advancing nearly to the edge of the woods ; but as often retreating , being unable quite to make up his mind to show himself at all to the inmates of the cottage . 
Once he gave it up entirely , and started off for his companions . 
But , after he had proceeded a dozen rods , he came again to a stand , hesitated a while , and , as if ashamed of his irresolution , wheeled rapidly about , proceeded , with a quick , firm step , to the border of the woods , struck directly for the house , and , with assumed unconcern , marched up to the door , -- where he was met , not by the young lady he expected first to see , but by her father . 
With a manner , for him , unusually gracious , Gurley extended his hand to Claud ; ushered him into the house ; formally introduced him to his wife , an ordinary , abject-looking woman ; and then to his daughter , the fair , dark-eyed , tall , shapely , and every way magnificent Avis Gurley , the girl who had so long , but unwittingly , been the object of the young man 's dreamy fancies . 
`` And you probably perceived , sir , '' said Avis , turning to Claud , with a smile , `` you probably perceived , in your yesterday 's adventure up here in the woods , that I have been in as bad a predicament as my father . '' 
`` Why , father , '' responded the other , `` Mr. Elwood will readily suppose that I should not have been straying into the wood for flowers and berries , had I known we had any such neighbors as the one from whose pursuit he so kindly rescued me last evening . '' 
`` I was as much surprised at the ferocity of the animal as you were , I presume , '' said Claud , in reply . 
On the departure of Gurley , his wife rose and left the room ; when Claud , unexpectedly finding himself alone with his fair companion , instead of entering into the easy conversation with her which the dictates of common gallantry would seem to require , soon began to manifest signs of constraint and embarrassment , which did not escape the eye of the young lady , and which caused her no little surprise and perplexity . 
She knew nothing of what had been passing in his mind , nor once dreamed of the circumstance which had first impressed her image there . 
She had never seen Claud till yesterday , when he so opportunely appeared for her rescue ; and , even then , she had no idea who it was to whom she had thus become indebted . 
She , however , had been much prepossessed with his appearance and manly bearing , and felt a lively sense of gratitude for the voluntary service ; and when , by the introduction of her father , she became apprised of the character of her deliverer , she felt doubly gratified that he had turned out to be one who , she believed , would not take any mean advantage of the obligation . 
For these reasons , she could not understand why he should appear so reserved , unless it was that she had failed to interest him ; and , finally concluding that this must be the case , she did that which , with her maidenly pride and high spirit , she would otherwise have scorned to do , she exerted herself to the utmost to interest and please him ; and , when he rose to return to his companions , she followed him into the yard , and smilingly said : `` You are fond of gunning excursions , are you not , Mr. Elwood ? '' 
`` Yes , O yes , quite so , '' replied Claud , with awkward hesitation . 
As for Claud , it would be difficult to describe his sensations on leaving the house , or make any thing definite out of the operations of his mind . 
The train which his imagination had been laying was on the point of being kindled into a blaze by the reality . 
He knew it ; he felt it ; but he knew also that it was the part of wisdom to smother the flame while it yet might be controlled . 
The unexpected and startling discovery which he had just made , that the girl who had so wrought upon his fancy , both when seen in the picture and met in the original , was the daughter of Gaut Gurley , raised difficulties and dangers in the path he found himself entering , which his judgment told him could only be avoided by his immediate desistance . 
Such were the fluctuating thoughts and purposes which occupied the agitated bosom of Claud Elwood , in his solitary walk to the place where the boats had been left , and where the subject was now driven from his mind , for a while , by the appearance of his companions and the merry jokes of the hunter They had cut up the moose meat , which they had found in good condition , and brought all they deemed worth saving down to the landing . 
For the two succeeding days and nights the hapless Claud was the prey of conflicting emotions , -- the more oppressive because he carefully kept them pent up in his own bosom . 
He dared not make the least allusion before his parents to the lady whom they knew he had rescued , or his visit to her home , for he could not do so without revealing the fact that the dreaded Gaut Gurley , with his family , had found his way into the vicinity ; while , if he did disclose this fact , he felt that he could not hold up his head before them till he had conquered his feelings towards the daughter . 
In this state of affairs between Claud and Avis , closed this , their second interview . 
Mr. Elwood had that day been abroad among the settlers , and , for the first time , learned not only that Gaut Gurley had moved with his family into the settlement , but that Claud was courting his daughter , and a match already settled on between them . 
On his return home , Elwood felt almost as much reluctance in making known his discoveries to his wife as Claud had before him ; for he well knew how deeply they would disquiet her . 
It was at this juncture , and before a word of comment had been offered either by Mrs. Elwood or her husband on the news he had related , that Claud arrived and entered the room . 
doubtfully asked Claud , turning to his father . 
`` It certainly seems so to me , also , mother , '' said Claud . 
`` Claud takes a just view of the case , on both points , I presume , '' rejoined Mr. Elwood . 
And as to Claud , I trust he knows enough to take care of himself . '' 
asked Mr. Elwood , in surprise at the oddness of the question . 
The friendly movement of the neighbors , thus announced , was not , of course , to be opposed or questioned by those for whose benefit it was intended , any further than Mr. Elwood had done in relation to his ability to entertain the company so well as their kindness deserved . 
Mr. Elwood and his son , indeed , who had been dreading the hard job of clearing off their land , were greatly gratified at the unexpected kindness . 
The matter was therefore considered as settled ; and the hunter departed , to call , as he had proposed , early the next morning for Claud , for an excursion up the lake , to procure fresh provissions for the coming occasion . 
They had scarcely dispatched their breakfast , before the hunter , as he had promised , called for Claud ; when the two departed together , with their guns and fishing gear , for the lake , whither we propose to accompany them . 
`` I am a companion of the voyage , to-day , and , as you know , but a learner in these sports , '' responded Claud . 
asked Claud , in surprise , as he cast his eye over the long reach of eddying , tumbling waters , that looked like a lessening sheet of foam as it lay stretched upward in the distant perspective . 
Claud implicitly obeyed the directions of the hunter , without much faith , however , in the success of his bold attempt . 
But he soon perceived he had underrated the skill and strength of arm which had been relied on to accomplish the seemingly impossible feat . 
Standing upright and slightly bracing in the bottom of his canoe , the hunter first marked out with his eye his course through a given reach of the rock-broken and foaming waters above ; then , nicely calculating the resisting force of each rapid to be overcome , and the required impetus , and the direction to be given to his canoe to effect it , he sharply bid Claud be on his guard , and sent the light craft like an arrow into the boiling eddies before him . 
And now , by sudden and powerful shoves , he was seen shooting obliquely up one rapid ; tacking with the quickness of light , and darting off zigzag among the rocks and eddies towards another , which was in turn surmounted ; while the boat was forced , surging and bounding forward , with increasing impetus , now up and now athwart the rushing currents , till he had gained a resting-place in the still water of some sheltering boulder in the stream , when he would mark off , with a rapid glance , another reach of falls , and shoot in among them as before . 
Thus , with the quick tacks and turns and sudden leaps of the ascending salmon , and almost with the celerity , he made his way up the long succession of rapids , until the last of the series was overcome , and he found himself safely emerging into the smooth waters of the beautiful lakelet or pond which divides , in the upper portion of its course , this remarkable stream . 
Claud , who had witnessed , with trembling anxiety , the hunter 's vain attempts to place the means of self-preservation in the hands of the maiden , and who now perceived , in their full light , the perils of the path to which she was helplessly hastening , could restrain his generous impulses no longer ; and , quickly throwing off his hat and coat , he leaped overboard , dashed headlong into the current , and struck boldly down it to overtake the receding canoe . 
In the mean time , Claud , in swimming over a sunken rock , luckily gained a foothold , which enabled him to rise and plunge forward again with redoubled speed ; and , so well-timed and powerful were his exertions , that he came within reach of the stern of the fugitive canoe just as it was whirling round sideways in the reflux of the waves caused by the water dashing against a high rock standing partly in the current . 
Making sure of his grasp on the end of the canoe that had been thus fortunately thrown within his reach , the struggling Claud made an effort to draw it from the edge of the abyss into which it was about to be precipitated ; but , with his most desperate exertions , he was barely enabled to keep it in position , while his strength was rapidly giving way . 
`` Hold on , there , Claud ! 
After one or two ineffectual attempts , Claud , with a last desperate effort , fortunately succeeded in securing his grasp on the hunter 's boat , without losing his hold on the other ; when , with one mighty effort of the latter , they were all drawn out of the vortex together , and soon brought safely to shore . 
`` True , no , '' returned the hunter ; `` but this gentleman , Fluella , is young Mr. Claud Elwood , who , with his father and mother , has recently moved into the settlement ; and they are now my nearest neighbors , at the foot of the lower lake . 
And to you , Claud , I have to say , that this young lady is the daughter of Wenongonet , the red chief , the original lord of these lakes , and still living on the one next above . '' 
Rousing himself , with a prompt affirmative reply to the question , Claud gallantly advanced , and extended his hand to his fair companion , who , with evident emotion , and a slight suffusion of the cheek , gave him her own in return , as she said : `` O yes . 
`` Excuse me , '' replied Claud , `` excuse me if I say , Miss Fluella , as Mr. Phillips calls you , that you have already expressed , and in the finest terms , far more than I am entitled to ; so let that pass , and tell us how your mishap occurred ? '' 
exclaimed the hunter , going up to the boat with Claud , to inspect the fish , which they had not before noticed . 
Claud shall remain here while I go a piece up the lake for a deer , and follow your example , except the race down the rapids ; but that he ca n't do , for I shall take our canoe with me , and make him fish from the shore , which will be just as well . 
This proposition being accepted , and it being also settled by common consent that no further attempt should , at this time , be made to ascend the remaining rapids with either of the boats the hunter and Claud , accompanied by the light-footed Fluella , took up her canoe and set off with it , along shore , towards a convenient landing in the lake above , then not more than sixty or seventy rods distant . 
`` Can it be , '' half-soliloquized Claud , as he stood rivetting his wondering gaze on the beauteous figure , which , gracefully bowing with the lightly-dipping oar , was receding from his rapt view , and gradually melting away in the distance ; `` can it be that she is but a mere Indian girl , one of those wild , untutored children of the forest ? '' 
Preparing his long fishing-rod and tackle , according to the instructions which the hunter had given him for adapting his mode of fishing to the locality and season , Claud made his way along down the edge of the stream to a designated point , a short distance above the place where , on the occurrence of the incident before described , they had ceased to ascend the rapids in their canoes . 
He here found , as he had been told , below a traversing reach of bare breakers , a large , deep eddy of gently revolving water , in the centre of which lay tossing on the swell a broad spiral wreath of spotless foam . 
So , at least , Claud then found it ; for , having passed to the most outward point of rocks inclosing the eddy , he no sooner threw in and drew his skip baitround the borders of the foamisland just named , than a dozen large trout shot up from beneath , and leaped splashing along the surface , in keen rivalry for the prize of the bait . 
With a second throw , he securely hooked one of a size which required all his strength to draw it , as he at length did , flapping and floundering to a safe landing . 
And for the next three hours he pursued the sport with a success which , notwithstanding the great number that broke away from his hook , well made good the augury of his beginning . 
By that time he had caught some dozens , of sizes varying from one to seven pounds , and enough , and more than he needed . 
But still he could not forego his exciting employment , and , insensible of the lapse of time , continued his drafts on the seemingly inexhaustible eddy , till roused by the long , shrill hallooof the returned hunter , summoning him to the landing above . 
Seeing Claud securely seated in the bottom of the canoe , and the freight nicely balanced , the hunter took his paddle , instead of setting-pole , the better to restrain the speed of the boat at the most rapid and dangerous passes , and struck out into the current , adown which , under the quick and skilful strokes of its experienced oarsman , it was borne with almost the swiftness of a bird on the wing , till it reached the quiet waters of the pond ; and , this being soon passed over , they entered and descended the next reach of rapids with equal speed and safety . 
On going out into the yard , while yet the coming sun was only beginning to flush the eastern horizon , Mr. Elwood perceived , early as it was , a man , whom he presumed , from the handspike and axe on his shoulder , to be one of the company , entering the opening and leisurely approaching , with an occasional glance backward along the road from the settlements below . 
Not recognizing the man as an acquaintance , Elwood noted his appearance closely as he was coming up . 
He was a rather young-looking man , of a short , compactly built figure , with quick motions , and that peculiar springy step which distinguishes men of active temperament and hopeful , buoyant spirits ; while the fox like cut of his features , the lively gray eyes that beamed from them , and the evidently quick coming and going thoughts that seemed to flash from his thin-moving nostrils and play on his curling lips , served to indicate rapid perceptions , shrewdness , and a kind and perhaps fun-loving disposition . 
So saying , the speaker turned ; and , without the explanation or addition of a single word , retraced his steps and disappeared in the woods , leaving the puzzled Elwood to construe the meaning of his story as he best could . 
Very soon , however , sounds reached his ears which enabled him to form some conjecture what the man intended by his odd announcement . 
Elwood , with some general remark expressive of his obligation to the whole of the company at hand for their voluntary and unexpected kindness , led the way to the burned slash , and went back to meet and salute the rest of the company , as they severally came up . 
Having performed this ceremony with those having the immediate charge of the oxen , till the whole had passed on to their work , he turned to the rest of the company , whom , though before unnoticed by him , he now found following immediately behind the teams . 
You were not expecting us a very greatsight earlier than this , I conclude , '' he added , with a jocular smile . 
`` You see he must have his fol-de-rol , Mr. Elwood , '' said the hunter . 
`` But , for all that , he is a good fellow enough at the bottom , if you can ever find it : ai n't all that so , Jonas ? '' 
The operations of the day having been thus auspicuously commenced in the slash , Elwood , retaining the hunter with him at the house to advise and assist in such arrangements and preparations for breakfast as might render the meal most acceptable to the company , entered at once upon his duties as host ; and , it being found that neither the room nor tables in the house were sufficient to seat all the company , it was decided , for the purpose of avoiding every appearance of invidious distinction , to prepare temporary tables and seat the whole of them , except the females , in the open air near the house . 
Upon this table , plates , knives and forks , with all other of the usual accompaniments , were speedily arranged by the quick-footed females ; while the sounds of boiling pots , and the hissing frying-pans spreading through the house and around the yard the savory fumes of the cooking trout , betokened the advanced progress of the culinary operations within , which were now soon completed ; when the fact was announced by Mr. Elwood by several long and loud blasts on his `` tin horn '' to the expectant laborers in the field , who , while the meal was being borne smoking on to the table , chained their oxen to stumps and saplings about the field , parcelled out to them the hay , and repaired to their morning banquet . 
said Codman , coming up close to Elwood , and speaking in a half whisper , as he pointed to Gaut Gurley , who , having noticed two of the stoutest of the hands vainly trying to roll up a large log , rushed forward , and , bidding them stand aside , threw it up single-handed without appearing to exert half his strength . 
he repeated , with an air of mingled wonder and waggishness . 
persisted the other , glancing towards Claud Elwood , who was standing near by . 
So saying , he walked off to his work , croaking like a rooster at some questionable object . 
But here comes Mr. Elwood : we will leave the question of the time of day to him . '' 
And with such animation did they resume their labors , and with such vigor continue to apply themselves in carrying out their resolution , and in hastening the hour of its fulfilment , that by the middle of the afternoon their task was ended ; and the gratified Mr. Elwood had the satisfaction of seeing the formidable-looking slash of the morning converted into a comparatively smooth field , requiring only the action of the fire on the log heaps , with a few days ' tending , to make it fit for the seed and harrow . 
As the company were proceeding along promiscuously towards the house , Gaut Gurley , who had thus far through the day manifested no desire for any particular conversation with Mr. Elwood , nor in any way deported himself so as to lead others to infer a former acquaintance between them , now suddenly fell in by his side ; when , contriving to detain him till the rest had passed on out of sight , he paused in his steps and said : `` Well , Elwood , I told you in the morning , you know , that we would do the work first and the talking afterwards . 
`` Yes -- O yes -- entirely , '' replied Elwood , hesitating in his doubt about what was to follow from the other , whose unexpected conduct and stand for his benefit he hardly knew how to construe . 
Elwood trembled as the other bent his fascinating gaze upon him , hesitated , began to demur feebly ; but , being artfully answered , soon yielded and extended his hand , which Gaut seized and shook heartily ; when at the suggestion of the latter they separated and proceeded by different courses , so that they might not be seen together , to join the company at the house , whom they found , as they expected , in consultation about the proposed trapping and hunting expedition to the upper lakes , the time of starting , and the names and number of those volunteering to join the association , only remaining to be fixed and ascertained . 
Contrary to what might have been expected , after the favorable impression he had so evidently made on the settlers that day , and the attainment of the still more important object with him , the regaining of his old fatal influence over Elwood , he appeared morose and dissatisfied . 
Something had not worked to his liking in the complicated machinery of his plans , and he showed his vexation so palpably as soon to attract the attention of his submissive but by no means unobservant wife , who , after a while , plucked up the courage to remark : `` What is the case , Gaut ? 
`` Well , I could understand your course before Elwood failed ; but , when he did , I could see no object , either in following him here , or having any thing particular to do with him , or any of his family . 
`` Well , then , in the first place , '' resumed the other , `` you know how many years I slaved myself , and what risks I run , to help Elwood make that fortune ; how he threw me off with simple wages , instead of the share I always intended to have for such hard and dangerous services ; and how he failed , like a fool , before I got it . '' 
And ascertaining that Elwood , by allowances made by the creditors to his wife , and sales of furniture which they allowed the family to retain , brought quite a little sum of money into the settlement , -- enough , at any rate , to pay for his place , put him well afloat , and make him a man of consequence in such a new place , -- I soon made up my mind on buying and settling , for present purposes , here , too , as we did . '' 
`` To insure the consummation of the match between Avis and young Elwood , which now seems in fair progress , but which would be liable to be broken off , if his family should continue to be unfriendly to me . '' 
That young man , Claud Elwood , whom you think so ordinary a match , is heir to a large property . 
And , if we can can carry this last point , the last danger will be removed , -- unless Claud himself proves fickle . '' 
What girl is there that he could think of in comparison with Avis ? '' 
`` I think there is none ; and still , there is one whom I would rather he would not see . '' 
-- the mother of Mr. Claud Elwood ? '' 
Would you like to see my son , Claud ? '' 
`` No , it was not him , but you , I came to see and speak with , '' she added , carefully , withdrawing a screening handkerchief from a light parcel she bore in her hand , and displaying a small work-basket of exquisite make , which , advancing with hesitating steps , she presented to the other , as she resumed : `` I came with this , good lady , to see if you would be suited to have such an article ? '' 
`` You are the chief 's daughter , whom Claud and Mr. Phillips helped out of a difficulty and danger on the rapids , some time since . 
But your token should be given to Claud , should it not ? '' 
Claud should know you are here . 
I will call him , '' she added , starting for the door . 
He would not wish to be troubled by one like me , '' hurriedly entreated the maiden , with a look of alarmed delicacy . 
He would be pleased to see you , and expect to be called , '' said Mrs. Elwood , in a tone of gentle remonstrance , while pausing at the unexpected objection . 
`` But it is unnecessary ; for I see that he is already coming , and in a moment will be here , '' she added , glancing out of the window . 
Having made the announcement , she turned encouragingly to the maiden , to reässure her , believing her request that Claud should not be called in proceeded entirely from over-diffidence . 
In a few moments Claud carelessly entered the house ; but stopped short in surprise , at the threshold , on so unexpectedly seeing the well-remembered face and form of the heroine of his late romantic adventure on the rapids , in the room with his mother . 
But , almost instantly recovering his usual manner , he gallantly advanced to the trembling maiden , took her by the hand , and respectfully inquired about her welfare , and pleasantly adverted to the singular circumstances under which they had become acquainted . 
She at length , however , rose to depart , observing that her father , who was in waiting for her at the landing , would chide her for her long delay ; when Claud offered to attend her to the lake . 
To this she at first objected ; but , on Claud 's assurance that he should be pleased with the walk , and that it would afford him the opportunity of meeting her father , whom he had a curiosity to see , she blushingly assented , and the couple sociably took their way to the lake together , leaving Mrs. Elwood deeply revolving in her mind the new train of thoughts that had been awakened by the remarkable personal beauty and evident rare qualities of her fair visitor , and the discovery of the state of her feelings , -- thoughts which the matron laid up in her heart , but forbade her tongue to utter . 
And Mr. Elwood will wait , I know , for the chief wishes to thank the brave that rescued his daughter , '' said the maiden , looking inquiringly at Claud . 
`` Yes , '' replied Claud , `` yes , certainly ; for , even without company , I am never tired of standing on this commanding point , and looking out on this beautiful lake and its surrounding scenery . '' 
then you think , Mr. Elwood , '' exclaimed Fluella , with a countenance sparkling with animation , `` you think of our woods life , like one of your great writers , whom I have read to remember , and who so prettily says : ` And this our life , exempt from public haunt , Finds tongues in trees , books in running brooks , Sermons in stones , and good in every thing . ' 
One would almost think this wise writer must be one of my people , he describes our ways of becoming instructed so truly ; for we Indians , Mr. Elwood , read few other books than those we see opened to us on the face of nature , or hear or read few other sermons than those in the outspread pages of the bright lake , the green woods , and the grand mountain . '' 
`` Then I would tell him , Mr. Elwood , '' responded the maiden , with dignity , and a scarcely perceptible spice of offended pride in her manner . 
said Claud , inquiringly . 
asked Claud . 
But , if he comes here sometime , as he may , you shall see him , Mr. Elwood . '' 
At this point of the dialogue , the attention of its participants was arrested by the sound of breaking twigs and other indications of the near approach of some one from the forest ; and , the next moment , emerging through the thick underbrush , which he parted by the muzzle of his rifle as he made his way , the expected visitant came into view . 
Seemingly unmindful of the presence of others near by , or of the curious and scrutinizing gaze of Claud , he advanced with a firm , elastic tread , and stately bearing , exhibiting a strong , erect frame , a large , intellectual head , and handsomely moulded features , with a countenance of a grave and thoughtful cast , but now and then enlivened by the keenly-glancing black eyes by which it was particularly distinguished . 
With the exception of moccasins and wampum belt , he was garbed in a good English dress ; and , so far as his exterior was in question , might have easily been mistaken , at a little distance , for some amateur hunter from the cities ; while , from the vigor of his movements , and other general appearance , he might have equally well passed for a man of the middle age , had not the frosts of time , which were profusely sprinkled over his temples , and other visible parts of his head , betrayed the secret of his advanced age . 
`` No , but my father will be pleased to learn that this is the Mr. Claud Elwood , who did your daughter such good service in her dangers on the rapids , and whom she has now conducted here , that he might have the opportunity to see the chief , and receive the thanks which it is more fitting for the father than the daughter to bestow . '' 
Fluella looked at Claud as if he was the one to answer the question , and he accordingly remarked : `` I have ever heard , chief , that your people always notice a benefit done to them , and that he who does them one secures their lasting gratitude . '' 
The maiden here cast an uneasy glance at Claud , and a deprecating one at her father , at the unnecessary caution , as she believed it , which she perceived the latter intended to convey by his words to the former . 
But , to her relief , Claud did not appear as if he thought the remarks had any application to himself , for he frankly responded : `` Your distinction is a just one , chief . 
`` Our gratitude was strong before ; the young man now makes stronger , '' remarked the other , exchanging appreciating glances with his daughter . 
`` No , chief , '' resumed Claud , `` I did not come here to boast of that small service , nor claim any thanks for it , but to see a sagamore , who could give me the knowledge of the Red Man which I would like to possess ; to see one who , in times gone by , was as a king in this lake country . 
We shall have now to bid Mr. Elwood a good-evening . '' 
She was immediately followed by the chief , who , quickly handling his oar , sent the light craft , with a single stroke , some rods into the lake , when , partially turning its bow towards the spot where Claud was standing on the shore , he said : `` Should the young man ever stray from his companions in the hunt , or find himself weary , or wet , or cold , or in want of food , when out on the borders of the Molechunk-a-munk , let him feel , and doubt not , that he will be welcome to the lodge of Wenongonet . '' 
`` And , if Mr. Elwood should be in the vicinity of our lake this fall , and nothappen to be in a so very sad condition , he might , perhaps , find a good welcome on calling , -- so , especially , if he come before the time of the first snows , '' added Fluella , playfully at first , but with a slight suffusion of the cheek as she proceeded to the close . 
`` I thank the chief , '' responded Claud with a respectful bow . 
`` And I thank you , my fair friend , '' he continued , turning more familiarly to Fluella . 
Slowly and thoughtfully Claud turned and took his way homeward . 
`` Who could have expected , '' he soliloquized , `` to witness such an exhibition of intellect and exalted tone of feeling in one of that despised race , as that proud old man displayed , in his eloquently-told story ? 
And he accordingly quickened his steps , and literally began to whistle a lively tune , by way of silencing the unbidden sensation which he felt conscious had often , since he first met this fair daughter of the wilds , been lurking within . 
But , though he thus resolved and reasoned the intruding feeling into nothing , yet he felt he would not like to have Avis Gurley know how often the sparkling countenance and witching smile of this new and beautiful face had been found mingling themselves with the previously exclusive images of his dreams . 
His head resolutely answered , `` Yes , less , till they are banished . '' 
His heart softly whispered , `` No . '' 
And , accordingly , early on the appointed morning , Mark Elwood and his son Claud , having dispatched their breakfast , which Mrs. Elwood had been careful to make an unusually good and plentiful one , shouldered their large hunting packs , with their blankets neatly folded and strapped outside ; and , having bid that anxious and thoughtful wife and mother a tender farewell , left the house and proceeded with a lively step to the border of the lake . 
`` The first on the ground , after all , '' exclaimed Mr. Elwood , on peering out sharply through the partially-obstructing fog in the direction of the outlet of the lake , up through which most of the company , who lived on the rivers below , were expected to come . 
But they can not be very far off , can they , Claud ? '' 
`` What did you think you heard , Claud ? '' 
asked Mr. Elwood , after waiting a moment for the other to proceed or explain . 
`` Perhaps it was a loon somewhere up the lake , '' suggested Mr. Elwood . 
`` It may be so , possibly , '' rejoined Claud , doubtfully ; `` but , if there were any inhabitants near enough in that direction , I should think it must be -- hark , there it is again ! 
The event soon proved the truth of Mr. Elwood 's conjecture . 
But , before Claud had sufficiently recovered from his surprise to respond to the triumphant `` I told you so '' of his father , the strange salute was answered by a merry , responsive shout of voices in the opposite direction ; and presently two canoes , each containing two men , emerged into view from the fog hanging over the outlet , and , joining in a contest of speed , to which they seemed to perceive the single boatman was , by his movements , challenging them , rapidly made their way towards the understood goal of the landing . 
`` Certainly , '' added Claud , more specifically , `` I think we ought to be gratified in such an acquisition to our company . '' 
`` Yes , ducks or some other kind of flesh , to go with the fish , we may now safely count on being secured , by some of the various proposed methods , '' here interposed Claud Elwood , seriously . 
Gaut Gurley started at the suggestion , and cast a few quick , searching glances at Claud and the hunter , as if suspecting a concert of action between them , for some purpose affecting his secret plans ; but , appearing to read nothing in either of their countenances to confirm such suspicions , and seeing all the rest of the company readily falling in with the proposal , he held his peace , and joined the others in handling the oars for their immediate departure ; which was now in a few minutes taken , the main part of the company striking in a direct line across the middle of the lake for their destination , leaving the hunter and Claud moving off obliquely to the right , for a different and farther route among the intervening islands , and along the indented shores beyond , -- where it will best comport with the objects of our story , we think , to accompany them in their solitary excursion . 
said Claud , after the two , each with a single oar , had rowed on a while in silence ; `` where away , Mr. Phillips , or in the line of what object in sight would you lay your course ? '' 
Readily complying , Claud carefully rowed round the point and entered the dark and deep indenture constituting the cove , whose few acres of surface were thrown almost wholly into the shade , even at sunny noonday , by the thickly-clustered groups of tall , princely pines , which , like giant warriors in council , stood nodding their green plumes around the closely-encircling shores . 
this is dull business , '' exclaimed Claud , as they came out into the open lake , where he was left free to speak aloud . 
Claud felt the implied rebuke , and promised better behavior for the future ; when both seated themselves at the oars , and , as men naturally do , after an interval of suppressed action , plied themselves with a vigor that sent their craft swiftly surging over the waters in the line of their original destination . 
They now soon reached , and shot along the shore of , a beautifully-wooded island , nearly a half-mile in extent , about midway of which the hunter rested on his oars , and , after Claud , on his motion , had done the same , observed , pointing through a partial opening among the trees , along a visible path that led up a gentle slope into the interior of the island : `` There ! 
`` It is possible I should , in such a case , '' replied Claud , looking surprised and puzzled ; `` but , ` suspected , ' did you say ? 
Much wondering at the enigmatical words of the other , Claud , without further remark , put in his oar and thoughtfully rowed on , till they had passed round the head of the island ; when , on the indication of the hunter , they stretched away towards a distant promontory , on the northeastern shore of the lake . 
In a short time the canoe came up , rowed by an ordinary Indian boy of about fourteen , who , pulling alongside , held up a neatly-made , new , wampumtrimmed hunting pouch , and said : `` The chief send this Mr. Claud Elwood , -- gift . 
Fluella say , wish Mr. Phillips and Mr. Claud Elwood good time . '' 
And so saying , and tossing the article to Claud , he wheeled his canoe around , and , without turning his head or appearing to hear the compliments and thanks that both the hunter and Claud told him to take to the chief and his daughter , sped his way back to the landing . 
`` But how , '' asked Claud , `` could stranger Indians , whom I encountered , know to whom it was given , or that I did not find , buy , or steal the article ? '' 
Having risen to his feet , raised his hunting-cap , and bowed his adieu to the still lingering maiden on shore , Claud now joined his companion at the oars ; when they rapidly passed round the headland , and soon entered the bay-like recess of water , which , sweeping round in a large wood-fringed circle , opened upon the view immediately beyond . 
Nodding his assent , and starting off in a course diverging to the right of the one he perceived his companion to be taking , Claud slowly , and as he best could , made his way forward , sometimes crawling under , and sometimes clambering over the tangled masses of fallen trees , which , with a thick upshooting second growth , lay piled and crossed in all conceivable shapes and directions before him . 
After proceeding in this manner thirty or forty rods , he paused , for the third or fourth time , to look and listen ; but lastly quite as much for his companion as for game , for , with all his powers , he could detect no sound indicating that the latter could be anywhere in the vicinity . 
While thus engaged , he heard a small , shrill , plaintive sort of cry , as of a little child , coming from somewhere above him ; when , casting up his eyes , he beheld a large raccoon sidling round a limb , and seemingly winking and nodding down towards him . 
With the suppressed exclamation of `` Far better than nothing , '' he brought his piece to his face and fired ; when the glimpse of a straight-falling body , and the heavy thump on the ground that followed , told him that the object of his aim was a `` dead coon . '' 
But his half-uttered shout of exultation was cut short by the startling report of a rifle , a little distance to the rear , on his left . 
And the next moment a huge old bear , followed by a smaller one , came smashing and tearing through the brush and tree-tops directly towards him . 
And with such headlong speed did the frightened brutes advance upon him , that he had scarce time to draw his clubbed rifle before the old one had broke into the little open space where he stood , and thrown herself on her haunches , in an attitude of angry defiance . 
Recoiling a step in the only way he could move , and expecting the next moment to find himself within the fatal grasp of the bear , if he did not disable her , Claud aimed and struck with all his might a blow at her head . 
`` I ca n't say I blame you much for your merriment , '' said Claud , joining , though rather feebly , in the laugh , as he brushed himself and picked up his rifle ; `` for , to be upset and run over by a bear would have been about the last thing I should have dreamed of myself . '' 
`` O well , '' said the other , checking his risibles , `` it had better turn out a laughing than a crying matter , as it might have done if you had kept your footing ; for , if you had not been over-thrown and run over , you would have probably , in this crampedup place , stood up to be hugged and scratched in a way not so very agreeable ; and I rather guess , under the circumstances , you may as well call yourself satisfied to quit so ; for the bears have left you with a whole skin and unbroken ribs , though they have escaped themselves where , with our time , it will be useless to follow them . 
asked Claud , in surprise . 
`` Heard him squall before you fired , then strike the ground afterwards with a force that I thought must have killed him , whether your bullet had or not , '' replied the hunter , moving off for his bear , with which , tugging it along by a hind leg , he soon joined Claud , who was threading his way out with his mottled trophy swung over his shoulder . 
exclaimed Codman , the first to notice the hunter and Claud as they shot into the mouth of the small , quiet river , on whose bank was busily progressing the work of the incipient encampment . 
Leaving the game in charge of Claud and Carvil , who volunteered to dress it , the rest of the company walked up with the hunter to the spot where the new shanty was in progress , wishing to hear his opinion of the location selected , and the plan on which it had been commenced . 
Claud and Codman , in fulfilment of their part of the business on hand , then unpacked the light frying-pans , laid in them the customary slices of fat salted pork , and shortly had them sharply hissing over the fire , preparatory to receiving respectively their allotted quotas of the tender and nutritious bearsteaks , or the broad layers of the rich , red-meated trout . 
What say you , Gurley , Claud , and Tomah ? 
`` O , I should be exceedingly gratified , '' joined in Claud , in his usual frank and animated manner . 
Elwood looked up inquiringly at Gaut , when he read something in the countenance of the latter which gave him to understand what was expected of him , and he accordingly responded : `` I should suppose there could not be much question which of the two , a minority or a majority candidate , should ask the other to stand aside , -- especially when , as in your case , the majority candidate is clearly chosen . 
I voted , gentlemen , for Mr. Gurley , '' he added , turning to the rest of the company ; `` and I hope those who voted for me will cheerfully acquiesce in the choice of the majority . '' 
`` I am a comparative stranger to you all , '' remarked Carvil , `` and , though I voted for Mr. Elwood , I will yet very willingly agree to the selection you have made . '' 
By the amicable arrangement thus made , Phillips and Claud Elwood were to form one of these pairs , and fix their lake-camp at the mouth of the river already named as coming in from the east ; Carvil and Mark Elwood to constitute another pair , and encamp at the mouth of the great inlet entering at the same place ; while Codman and the young Indian , Tomah , who , from their mutual challenges in beavercatching , had by this time become friends , and willing to hunt from the same starting-point , were to have their camp at the mouth of the river coming in at the northwest end of the lake . 
`` Well , Claud , I am as much at fault as you . 
`` O , not so very great a distance , -- three hundred miles , perhaps , '' replied Claud , looking inquiringly at the other . 
asked Claud . 
Singling out the nearest goose of the nearest column , Claud quickly caught his aim , and fired ; when the struck bird , with a convulsive start , suddenly clasped its wings , and , in its onward impulse , came down like lightning into the bushes , within five rods from its exulting captor . 
You are improving , young man , '' exclaimed the hunter , who now , rapidly coming down , had reached the foot of the tree , as Claud came forward from the bushes , with his prize . 
he continued , glancing at the heavy bird , as he was pulling on his boots . 
`` O , that is all settled , '' answered the latter , putting on his pack , and buttoning up , preparatory to an immediate start . 
While the hunter was thus delivering himself , as he stood by the fire before the entrance , spreading out his hands over the coals , Claud went inside , and , returning with two fine , fresh trout , which the late occupants had , for some cause , left behind them , held them up to his musing companion , and exclaimed `` Look here , Mr. Phillips , -- see what they have left for us ! '' 
After some time passed in the animated and cheery interchange of inquiries and opinions , which usually succeeds on the meeting of anxiously-sought or expected friends , Claud and Phillips , having by this time warmed and measurably rested themselves , took hold with Carvil and Mark Elwood in dressing and cooking for supper and for breakfast the next morning , Claud 's goose , and a pair of fine ducks from a flock which the two latter had encountered just before reaching camp that afternoon ; and , after completing this process with their good supply of game , and the more agreeable one of eating so much of it as served for a hearty supper , they drew up an extra quantity of fuel for the large fire which they felt it would be necessary to keep up through the night ; and then , seating themselves in camp , went into an earnest consultation on the measures and movements next to be taken . 
`` And still I suspect it is a fact , father , '' said Claud . 
`` O , Phillips is right enough about that , '' added Codman , now evidently fast regaining his usual buoyancy of spirits ; `` yes , right enough about that , whether he was about that plaguey switching he gave us , or not . 
`` Now , I will finish with you , sir , '' resumed Gaut 's lawyer , turning again sternly to Elwood , from whom he -- like many other over-acting attorneys , who can not see where they should stop in examinations of this kind -- seemed to think he could draw something more that would make for his client . 
The attorney for the prosecution , then , it being agreed to submit the case on the testimony now in , made a long and ingenious speech , abandoning the matter of the identified furs ; dwelling largely on Gaut 's dimly-hinted proposals to Elwood to join in the crime ; and , on the ground that he was the only person in a situation to burn and rob the camp , raising the violent presumption that he must have perpetrated the double crime . 
By the open , and as was supposed irreconcilable , quarrel between Mark Elwood and the terribly vindictive Gaut Gurley , their children , Claud and Avis , who were understood to be under mutual engagement of marriage , were placed in a position at once painful and embarrassing in the extreme . 
And Claud , especially , although he had carefully abstained from all accusations of Gaut , had taken no part in getting up the prosecution , and purposely absented himself from the trial , yet felt very keenly the perplexing dilemma into which he would be thrown , by continuing the connecting link between two such deadly foes as he now found his father , whom he could not desert , and Gaut Gurley , whom he felt conscious he could not defend . 
One day , a short time after the trial , while he was anxiously revolving the subject in mind , a boy , who had come as a special messenger from the Magalloway settlement -LRB- for the purpose , as it appeared -RRB- , brought him the following letter : `` Dear Claud , -- You do not know , you can not know , what the effort costs me to write this . 
But , Claud , I love you , and all ` Know love is woman 's happiness ; ' Claud felt greatly relieved , in some respects , by this unexpected missive ; in others , the contents caused him uneasiness and self-condemnation . 
It relieved him from the sense of obligation he had entertained , to make the dreaded visit to the house of Gaut Gurley , -- who , with every desire to arrive at a different conclusion , he could no longer believe guiltless of the basest of frauds , and the basest of means to conceal it . 
So much for the love and its hapless entanglements , which had been so deeply but so unsatisfactorily occupying , for the last few weeks , the thoughts of Claud Elwood , who then little suspected that there was another heart , besides that of the pure , proud , and impassioned Avis Gurley , whose every pulse , in the great unseen system of intermingling sympathies , beat in trembling vibration to his own , -- a heart that had been won uncourted and unknown , -- a heart that had secretly nursed , in the favoring solitudes of these wild lakes , and brooded over , a passion more deep and intense than words could well be found to describe . 
I hope Mr. Elwood will keep out of his way ; and I hope , Claud , -- O , I can not write the thought . 
Especially had she been impressed that this would prove the case , in all that related to her idolized son , Claud ; whom , in her disregard to all considerations of lineage , when relieved by such excellence of beauty and character , she would a thousand times rather have seen united to the Indian girl than to the one he appeared to have chosen . 
When , therefore , the proposal of a new expedition was made , under the circumstances we have named , the blinded Elwood seemed fully prepared to accept it ; and he would have openly and without reserve done so , but for the restraining presence of his companions , who , he felt conscious , would disapprove and deprecate his conduct . 
said Phillips to Codman , as they left Elwood 's on a second and last visit , made with the sole object of dissuading him from a step which they shrank from themselves , -- that of going into the distant forest with such a desperate fellow as they now deeply suspected Gaut Gurley to be , -- `` the man is evidently hurried.When I saw that look Gaut gave Elwood in court , I knew he was marked for destruction , more especially than the rest of us , who are doubtless both placed on the same list . 
And Elwood would see it himself , if he was right-minded . 
Yes , he is hurried , and ca n't help it . 
He will go , and God grant my fears may not be realized . '' 
As soon as Claud became fully satisfied that his father 's purpose was not to be shaken , he began earnestly to debate in mind the question whether he himself should not , as a filial duty , become a participant in the expedition , with the view of making his presence instrumental in averting the apprehended danger . 
And , although he perceived that his mother 's distress , all troubled and doubtful as she was in deciding between her conflicting duties of affection , would be enhanced by the step ; and , although his mind had been still more staggered by a brief confidential note from Avis Gurley , advising him , if not too late , to find means to break up the project of the expedition entirely , yet he finally made up his mind in the affirmative . 
This canoe , which I suppose you all agree was Mr. Elwood 's , has not been rowed since he left it hauled up on the shore of the Oquassah last fall , to be buried by the great snow-storm ; and the Elwoods are both safe , for all being wrecked and drowned from thatboat , or any other , I presume . '' 
Among these was a faint stain of blood , which Moose-killer pointed out to the company , in the bow of the canoe , and which was evidently but lately made ; while the size and height of the man , supposed to be murdered , which the Indian judged of by a similar curious process with that by which he reached his other conclusions , were seen to correspond with the dimensions of the elder Elwood ; who was believed to be the man thus indicated , though it left the fate of Claud still shrouded in mystery . 
By this it was arranged that Moose-killer -- who , when he had gathered what was known of Gaut Gurley , and obtained a description of his person , entered into the arrangements with an unexpected alacrity -- it was arranged that Moose-killer , Carvil , Tomah , and two of the settlers , should start immediately up the lakes , in further search for the body of Mark Elwood -LRB- whose fate was now treated as settled -RRB- , and , also , for a more general search round the two upper lakes for his son , Claud ; who , it was hoped , had by some means been separated from his father , and suffered to escape , despite the improbability that he would remain so long absent , if nothing had befallen him . 
Yes , poor Mr. Elwood is dead ! 
I have buried him ! 
But my son Claud -- O , my son Claud ! '' 
The astonished hunter then told her of the singular absence of Fluella ; when , again to his surprise , she started up , and joyfully exclaimed , `` He lives ! 
-- though in danger , perhaps , he lives , and I shall see him again ! '' 
`` Yes , but I should like mightily to know how he got wind of our movements ? 
On rising the next morning , Gaut had proposed that Claud remain at camp that day , to build a better shanty , and hunt in the near vicinity ; while he and Mark Elwood should explore the stream , to a pond some miles above , where his previously discovered beaver-haunts , he said , were mostly to be found , and where , the snow and ice having wholly disappeared , they could now operate to good advantage . 
Such were the circumstances under which we have brought this singularly-assorted party of trappers to the notice of the reader , as they lay sleeping in their bough-constructed tents , -- Gaut and Mark Elwood under one cover , and Claud under another , which he had fixed up for himself on the opposite side of their fire , -- on the ominous night which was destined to prelude the most tragic and melancholy scene of our variously eventful story . 
And these impresses were as variant as the characters of those on whose features they rested : that lingering on the sternly-compressed lips and dark , beetling brows of Gaut Gurley , ever sinister , was doubly so now ; that on the face of Mark Elwood , whose vacillations of thought and feeling , through life , had exempted his features from any stamp betokening fixed peculiarity of character , was one of fatuous security ; and that resting on the intellectual and guileless face of Claud Elwood was one of simple care and inquietude . 
But what is that light , shadowy form , hovering near the sylvan couch of Claud , like some unsubstantial being of the air ; now advancing , now shrinking away , and now again flitting forward to the head of the youthful sleeper , and there pausing and preventing the light from longer revealing his features ? 
His features twitch nervously , and expressions of terror and surprise flit over them . 
He dreams , and his dream is a troubled one Let the novelist 's license be invoked to interpret it . 
He was alone with his father on a boundless plain , when suddenly a dark , whirlwind tempest-cloud fell upon the earth around them , and soon separated him from the object of his care . 
As he was anxiously pressing on through the thickly-enveloping vapors , in the direction in which the latter had disappeared , he was suddenly confronted by a monstrous , black , and fearful living apparition , who stood before him in all the horrid paraphernalia ascribed to the prince of darkness , apparently ready to crush him to the earth , when a bright angel form swiftly interposed . 
After daylight Claud arose , as if nothing unusual had occurred to disturb him , bustled about , built a good fire , and began to prepare a morning meal from the fine string of trout he had taken during yesterday 's excursion . 
The noise of these preparations soon awoke the two sleepers ; who , complimenting him on his early rising , also arose , and soon joined him in partaking the repast , which , by this time , he had in readiness . 
As soon as they had finished their meal , which was enlivened by no other than an occasional brief , commonplace remark , the thoughts of each of them being evidently engrossed by his own peculiar schemes and anxieties , the trappers , by common consent , set about their preparations to depart ; and , having completed them , leisurely took their way down the western shore of the lake towards the spot at which they had hauled up and concealed their canoe , and which , if they followed the deep indentures of the shore in this part of the lake , must be four or five miles distant . 
But young Elwood , whose feelings had been deeply stirred by the fancies of the night , which , to say the least , had the effect to make him more keenly apprehensive and vigilant , had noted several little circumstances , that , to him , wore a questionable appearance . 
Gaut , who at first led the way , soon manœuvred to get Mark Elwood , the next in the order of their march , in front ; and then urged him forward at a much faster pace than before , at the same time often casting furtive glances behind him , as if to see whether Claud , who seemed inclined to walk more slowly than the rest , would not fall behind , and soon be out of sight . 
And , when the latter quickened his pace , he showed signs of vexation , which had not passed unnoticed . 
All this Claud had noted , together with the singular expression which Gaut 's countenance assumed , and which filled him with an undefinable dread , and a lively suspicion that the man was on the eve of attempting the execution of foul purposes . 
`` If music be the food of love , '' In the pleasing indulgence of the feelings and fancies which had been thus freshly kindled , Claud stood , for some minutes , quite unconscious of the lapse of time , though it had been long enough to place his companions far out of sight and hearing . 
From this reverie he was suddenly aroused by the sharp report of a rifle , bursting on his ear from the woods , about a quarter of a mile off , in the direction just taken by his companions . 
Starting at the sound , which sent a boding chill through his heart , and bitterly taxing himself for his inadvertent loitering , he sprang back to the trail he had left , and made his way along over it towards the place indicated by the firing , with all the speed which excited nerves and agonizing anxiety could bring to his aid . 
But , before reaching the spot at which he was aiming , and just as he was beginning to slacken his pace , to look around for it , Gaut Gurley burst through the bushes , a few rods ahead , and , running towards him with all the manifestations of a man in hasty retreat before a pursuing foe , eagerly exclaimed : `` Run , Claud ! 
`` I will know , '' said Claud , with a quick , searching glance at the face of the other , -- `` yes , I will knowfor myself what has happened , '' he sternly added , suddenly breaking from the grasp on his arm , and bounding forward to execute his purpose with a quickness and rapidity that made pursuit useless . 
But , heeding neither the entreaties nor the threats which , his ear told him , were strangely mingled in the tones of the words thus thundered after him , Claud , in his agony of apprehension , eagerly rushed on towards the forbidden scene , which could not now be thirty rods distant , and had proceeded , perhaps , forty yards ; when , just as he was straightening up , after stooping to pass under an obstructing limb of a tree , extending across his path , he became conscious of the sound of the sudden hitting of the limb , and partly so of the concussion of a shot , still farther in his rear . 
But he neither heard nor knew more ; and , the next moment , lay stretched senseless on the ground . 
When he awoke to consciousness , after , he knew not what lapse of time , he found himself in a different place ; lying , as he felt conscious , badly wounded , on a soft , elastic bed of boughs , within a dense thicket of low evergreens , through which his opening eye caught the gleams of widely-surrounding waters . 
She had learned from Mrs. Elwood that Claud had pledged himself to her that he would return from his expedition within the month of April ; and to Fluella , with her undoubting confidence in his word , a failure to redeem that pledge would be but little less than certain intelligence that some evil had befallen either him or his father , in their unknown place of sojourn in the wilderness . 
Consequently her solicitude -- growing out of her secretly nourished but overmastering love for him -- became , as the time approached which was to relieve or realize her fears for the result of an expedition undertaken under such dreadful auspices , each day more deep and absorbing . 
She fancied Claud the victim of outrage or misfortune , -- perhaps wounded and dying , by the same hand that might have previously struck down his father , -- perhaps taken sick on his way home alone , and now lying helpless in the woods , where none could witness his sufferings or hear his cries for assistance . 
`` O Claud , I will come to you . 
Go after him ? '' 
`` Go in search of him in the woods ! 
To be in the same wilderness with him were a pleasure , to the insupportable suspense I must suffer here . 
If I discover all to be well , I need not show myself ; but , if it be as I fear , O , what happiness to be near him ! 
And it was not all a dream with Claud , when he fancied some one standing by his couch of repose . 
A flitting form had , that night , indeed , for a moment hovered over him , looking down , with the sleepless eye of love , on his broken slumbers , and trying to divine , perhaps , the very dreams which , through some mysterious agency of the mental sympathies , her presence was inciting . 
Up to this time she had kept considerably in advance of the moving party ; but now , suddenly missing Claud , she sought a covert , and stood watching for him , till Mark Elwood , followed by Gaut Gurley , came abreast of the spot she occupied ; when , suddenly , the forest shook and trembled from the report of a gun , bursting from the bushes , seemingly , almost beneath her feet . 
On recovering from the deeply paralyzing effect of the horrid spectacle , her first thought was for Claud ; and , with the distracting thought , her eye involuntarily sought for the murderer of his father , who had shrunk back from his position , but whom she soon detected hastily reloading his rifle , and then starting , with a quick step , along back the path in which he had just come , -- in search , as her alarmed heart suggested , of another victim for his infernal malice . 
Here she had contrived to draw Claud up , in the light canoe , on the farthest shore , and , by degrees , got both him and the boat on the dry , mossy ground , safely within a thicket wholly impervious to outward view . 
She then , with lively concern , saw him return and proceed towards the spot where Claud had fallen , but soon reäppear , evidently much disturbed at not finding the body , yet not seeming to suspect how it had been disposed of , though several times coming down to the edge of the water and peering anxiously up and down the lake ; but she was soon relieved from her fears by seeing him take to his boat , row rapidly round the point , there take in tow two other canoes , -- which , it appeared , he had brought up and left there , -- and then row down the lake , in the direction of the great outlet ; under the belief , doubtless , that Claud had revived , struck down through the woods for the upper end of the lake below , where , if he had not before sunk down and died of his wounds , he might be waylaid and finished . 
Thus relieved of this pressing apprehension , she hurried back to her charge , and carefully examined his wounds ; when she found that the bullet , whose greatest force had been broken by the obstructing limb , had struck near the top of his head , and ploughed over the skull without breaking it ; that , of the two stabs inflicted , one had been turned by the collar-bone , making only a long , surface wound , the other had passed through the fleshy part of the arm and terminated on a rib beneath , producing a flow of blood , which , but for the timely and plentiful application of beaver-fur , pulled from a skin which she saw protruding from his pack , must have soon terminated his life . 
With the drinking-cup she found slung to his side , she brought water , washed the wounds , laid the ruptured parts in place , and , with plasters of cloth cut from her handkerchief , and made adhesive by balsam taken from a tree at hand , covered and protected them ; and thus , by the application of a skill she learned from her father , placed them in a situation where nature , with proper care , would , of herself , complete the sanatory operation . 
She then resumed the process of bathing his head and face , and , within another hour , was thrilled with joy in witnessing his return to consciousness , in the manner we described before leaving him for this long but necessary , digression . 
After giving vent to her painfully laboring emotions a while , the maiden softly arose , and , creeping down under the overhanging boughs to the edge of the water , sat down on a stone and bathed her throbbing brow , for some time , in the limpid wave ; after which , having in a good measure regained her usual firmness and tranquillity , she returned to the side of her wounded friend , whom she found wrapt in the deep slumber generally produced by exhaustion from loss of blood . 
Here , after passing in out of sight of the lake , she drew up her oar , and paused to reflect and conclude what should be her next movement ; when Claud , whose head was pillowed in the bow of the boat , and whose eye was resting tenderly on her downcast countenance , soon read her perplexity , and again asked to be informed of all that had happened , and the object of her present movement . 
She told him , -- with such reservations as maidenly modesty and pride suggested , -- she told him all she had seen , and in conclusion proposed , as their enemy might ambush them , and as it was now drawing towards night , and the lake would not be quiet enough for some hours , at least , to permit them to proceed , that they should row up the river till they found an eligible spot , and encamp for the night . 
To this Claud readily assented ; and they again set forth up the gentle stream , that , as before intimated , here came in from the southeast ; and , after proceeding some distance , the anxious eye of the maiden fell on a place on the left bank , where a temporary shelter could easily be rigged up , under the wide-spreading and low-set limbs of a thick-topped evergreen , which , of itself , would be ample protection against the dews of heaven . 
Drawing up the canoe on land near the tree , in the same manner as at the island , she proceeded to gather large quantities of fine hemlock boughs , and dry , elastic mosses , arrange them under the tree , in the form of bed and pillow , and over the whole to spread Claud 's blanket ; thus making a couch as safe and comfortable as ever received the limbs of a suffering invalid . 
Upon this , partly by his own exertions and partly by her assistance , he was then , without much difficulty , soon transferred from the canoe ; when , with his light hatchet -LRB- she having brought all his implements along with him in the boat -RRB- , she soon erected neat , closely-woven wicker walls of boughs , from the ground to the limbs above , on both sides , providing within one of them a space for herself . 
She then brought fuel , kindled a small fire in front , and took her position at his side , to be ready for such ministering offices as his case might seem to require . 
She found that he had again fallen into a profound slumber , which she at first regarded as a favorable omen ; and , in the conscious security of the spot , in the belief that he had received none of the injuries she had apprehended from the motion of the boat , and , above all , in the indulgence of that overweening pride of affection which covets all pains and sacrifices for the loved one , she felt a satisfaction which was almost happiness , in her situation . 
She at length began to perceive a gradual reddening of his cheeks , and then , soon after , an increasing shortness of respiration , and a general restlessness of the system . 
Alarmed at these symptoms , she felt his pulse , and at once discovered that he was in a high fever , supervening from his wounds , and caused , or much aggravated , doubtless , by the jostling of the boat on his way hither . 
She could not , dare not , even were it daytime , leave him to go miles away for her father , or others , for aid or advice . 
But we have not the space , nor even the ability , to portray adequately the restrained but lively emotions of joy and the charming embarrassment that thrilled the tumultuously-beating bosom of the one , and the deep gratitude and silent admiration that took possession of the other , of this singularly situated young couple , during the succeeding scenes of Claud 's now rapid convalescence . 
Here , for the first time , they learned that the murderer had been taken and carried to the village for his preliminary trial ; that the examination had been postponed , to allow the prisoner time to send for his counsel ; and that the hearing was to commence that very evening , though the hunter , who had that day made a hurried journey to the chief 's , to see if Fluella had returned or Claud been heard from , had expressed great fears that the evidence yet discovered might not be deemed sufficient to convict him of murder , and perhaps not to imprison him for a final trial . 
Claud , perceiving at once the importance of Fluella 's testimony , as well as of his own , proposed that they should immediately proceed that evening down the lakes to the place of trial . 
At her earnest suggestion , however , it was at length arranged that she , accompanied by her half-brother , a lad of fifteen , should go down that evening , and that the chief , with Claud , should follow early the next morning . 
Of Claud Elwood , whom they had unknowingly passed and repassed , on their way up and down the lakes , while he was lying helpless in the secluded retreat to which his fair and devoted preserver had conveyed him , they had heard nothing , seen nothing , and discovered no clues by which his locality or fate could be traced or conjectured . 
But , of all present , none seemed so much stirred as the obdurate prisoner , who had , thus far in the examination , scarcely once wholly lost his usual look of bold assurance , but who now was seen casting rapid , uneasy , and evidently troubled glances towards the door ; doubtless expecting , each moment , to see the fear which had haunted him from the first -- that Claud Elwood would turn up alive , and appear in court against him -- realized in the person of the new witness . 
Gaut Gurley , the alarmed prisoner , who at first had appeared greatly relieved on finding that the announced witness was not the reänimated young Elwood , as he had feared , now seemed utterly at fault to conjecture what either of these women could know of his crime . 
But the moment the maiden , whom he had seen the previous year , and regarded with jealous dislike , as the possible rival of his daughter , revealed herself to his view , his looks grew dark and suspicious ; and when she commenced by mentioning , as she did at the outset , that she was on a boat excursion along the western shore of the Maguntic , on the well-remembered day when he consummated his long cherished atrocity , he seemed to comprehend the drift of what was coming , and his eyes fastened on her with the livid glare of a tiger ; while those demoniac flashes , before noted as the usual percursor of hellish intent with him , began to burn up and play over his contracting countenance . 
And she proceeded uninterrupted , till , having described the position in the thicket on shore , in which she was standing , as Mark Elwood , followed by Gaut Gurley , both of whom she recognized , came along , she , nerving herself for the task , raised her voice and said : `` I distinctly saw Mr. Elwood fall , convulsed in death , -- heard the fatal shot , and instantly traced it to Gaut , before he had taken his smoking rifle from his shoulder , -- this same man who now -- '' When , as she was uttering the last words , and turning to the prisoner , she stopped short , recoiled , and uttered a loud shriek of terror . 
`` Claud ! '' 
`` Claud ! 
Claud ! '' 
`` I know it , '' said the mother , after a thoughtful pause , `` I know it ; and , Claud , I would that she were indeedmy daughter . '' 
She had known of Fluella 's arrival , -- her perilous passage over the river , -- of the report she then made to the hunter of her discoveries , -- of her bringing back the wounded Claud in safety , -- of the dastardly attempt of the prisoner to take that heroic girl 's life , -- of his sentence , and , finally , of his departure for prison , amidst the execrations of a justly indignant people . 
she said , in tones of unnatural calmness , with a forbidding gesture to Claud , who , while Fluella was instinctively shrinking to the side of the more unmoved but still evidently disturbed Mrs. Elwood , had advanced a step for a respectful greeting . 
Claud Elwood , my heart once opened and turned to you , as the sunflower to its god ; and our paths of love met , and , for a while , ran on pleasantly together as one . 
Claud , Claud Elwood , -- can you love this beautiful girl at your side ? 
Farewell , Claud ! 
he added , with an inclination of the head towards Claud . 
The formal introduction to each other of the -LRB- till then -RRB- personally unacquainted uncle and nephew ; the full developing to the astonished mother and son of the fact , already inferred from what they had just witnessed , that this , their eccentric kinsman , was no other than the foster-father of Fluella , -- that he was the owner of large tracts of the most valuable wild lands around these lakes , the oversight of which , together with the unexpected tutelary care of the Elwood family since their removal to the settlement , he had intrusted to the prudent and faithful Phillips , -- and , finally , the melancholy mingling of sorrows for the untimely death of the fated brother , husband , and father of these deeply-sympathizing corelatives , now , like chasing lights and shadows from alternating sunshine and cloud on a landscape , followed in rapid succession , in unfolding to the mournfully happy circle their mutual positions and bonds of common interest . 
What say you , Claud ? '' 
`` A frightful blow , Mr. Elwood , '' said the latter ; `` for the twenty years I have been a seaman , I have never seen the like . '' 
`` But that , '' rejoined Elwood -LRB- for the gentleman was no other than Claud Elwood , as the reader has doubtless already inferred -RRB- , `` that will bring us , according to the late rumor , into one of the principal haunts of the pirates , will it not ? '' 
`` For pleasure , no , my dear husband , '' affectionately responded the other ; `` no , with my happy New England home , never , for pleasure , Claud . '' 
`` Thank you , Claud , for the beautiful part of it , '' said the happy wife , snapping her handkerchief in his face , with an air of mock resentment ; `` but I am thinking of home . 
`` Yes , '' said he , with kindling enthusiasm , `` we will go , Fluella . 
The conversation between the happy pair was here interrupted by the appearance of a boat putting off from the frigate , under the charge of a midshipman ; who , having come on board and inquired out Elwood , now approached and presented him a letter , saying , as he departed , it was from the pirate prisoner , and would doubtless require no answer . 
The greatly surprised young man tore open the letter , and , in company with his wife , read , with mingled emotions of pain and indignation , the following singular but characteristic compound of malicious vaunt and shameless confession : `` To Claud Elwood : -- My career is ended , at last . 
On finishing this singular and remorseless missive , with its strange , painful , but as he feared too true disclosure of the secret of that fatal influence which had proved the ruin and final destruction of his father , Claud Elwood was too much troubled and overcome to utter a word of comment ; and , with his pained and shuddering wife , he stood mute and thoughtful , until aroused by the stir on board , in preparations for weighing anchor , and the cheering announcement of the captain that a favoring breeze was springing up , and that within twenty minutes they would be , under the fairest of auspices , on their rejoicing way to their own beloved New England . 
As Elwood and his beautiful companion were on the point of retiring from deck , their attention was suddenly arrested by a light , crashing sound , high up the tall side of the frigate . 
