Hugh ! '' 
Hugh ! 
-- a dreadful idle vagrant fellow , sir -- half a gipsy as I think -- always sleeping in the sun in summer , and in the straw in winter time sir -- Hugh ! 
-- Hugh ! 
`` Possibly he is , '' returned the other . 
`` I should think if he were living he would have heard you by this time . '' 
`` In his fits of laziness , he sleeps so desperate hard , '' said the distracted host , `` if you were to fire off cannon-balls into his ears , it would n't wake him , sir . '' 
This was disconcerting ; for Joe being out , and Hugh engaged in rubbing down the chesnut cob , he designed sending on the errand , Barnaby , who had just then arrived in one of his rambles , and who , so that he thought himself employed on grave and serious business , would go anywhere . 
`` For Grip , and me , and Hugh , to share among us , '' he rejoined , putting it up , and nodding , as he counted it on his fingers . 
`` Grip one , me two , Hugh three ; the dog , the goat , the cats -- well , we shall spend it pretty soon , I warn you . 
Of these , one was Barnaby himself , who slept , or , to avoid being beset with questions feigned to sleep , in the chimney-corner ; the other , Hugh , who , sleeping too , lay stretched upon the bench on the opposite side , in the full glare of the blazing fire . 
The negligence and disorder of the whole man , with something fierce and sullen in his features , gave him a picturesque appearance , that attracted the regards even of the Maypole customers who knew him well , and caused Long Parkes to say that Hugh looked more like a poaching rascal to-night than ever he had seen him yet . 
cried John , starting up , `` Hugh ! 
Hugh ! '' 
At length Mr. Willet agreed to go up stairs himself , escorted by Hugh and Barnaby , as the strongest and stoutest fellows on the premises , who were to make their appearance under pretence of clearing away the glasses . 
`` The room , sir , '' returned John , taking up a candle , and nudging Barnaby and Hugh to accompany them , in case the gentleman should unexpectedly drop down faint or dead , from some internal wound , `` the room 's as warm as any toast in a tankard . 
Hugh ! 
`` And Hugh ? '' 
`` Not I , `` he answered . 
`` I know his '' -- pointing to Barnaby -- `` they 're well enough . 
He sings 'em sometimes in the straw . 
`` He 's quite a animal , sir , '' John whispered in his ear with dignity . 
`` You 'll excuse him , I 'm sure . 
If he has any soul at all , sir , it must be such a very small one , that it do n't signify what he does or does n't in that way . 
Notwithstanding these slight defects , John perfectly gloried in the animal ; and when she was brought round to the door by Hugh , actually retired into the bar , and there , in a secret grove of lemons , laughed with pride . 
`` There 's a bit of horseflesh , Hugh ! '' 
There was bone enough beyond all doubt ; and so Hugh seemed to think , as he sat sideways in the saddle , lazily doubled up with his chin nearly touching his knees ; and heedless of the dangling stirrups and loose bridle-rein , sauntered up and down on the little green before the door . 
To this , Joe made no answer , but beckoning Hugh , leaped into the saddle and rode away ; and a very stalwart manly horseman he looked , deserving a better charger than it was his fortune to bestride . 
Old John , who had peeped from behind the red curtain as they rode up shouting for Hugh , was out directly , and said with great importance as he held the young man 's stirrup , `` He 's comfortable in bed -- the best bed . 
`` you must n't tell , '' said Barnaby , holding up his finger , `` for it 's a secret , mind , and only known to me , and Grip , and Hugh . 
We had the dog with us , but he 's not like Grip , clever as he is , and does n't guess it yet , I 'll wager . 
`` Aye , but Hugh , and I , '' said Barnaby , '' -- that 's it . 
Maypole Hugh , and I , you know , and Grip -- we have been lying in the forest , and among the trees by the road side , with a dark-lanthorn after night came on , and the dog in a noose ready to slip him when the man came by . '' 
`` The robber ; him that the stars winked at . 
We have waited for him after dark these many nights , and we shall have him . 
I 'd know him in a thousand . 
So Hugh says . 
It was for the moment an inexpressible relief to Dolly , to recognize in the person who forced himself into the path so abruptly , and now stood directly in her way , Hugh of the Maypole , whose name she uttered in a tone of delighted surprise that came from her heart . 
In answer to which , he said nothing at all , but stood quite still , looking at her . 
Hugh nodded , and muttered something to the effect that he had been waiting for her , and had expected her sooner . 
N2503025 Nobody sent me , '' was his sullen answer . 
The rough bearing of this fellow , and his wild , uncouth appearance , had often filled the girl with a vague apprehension even when other people were by , and had occasioned her to shrink from him involuntarily . 
The having him for an unbidden companion in so solitary a place , with the darkness fast gathering about them , renewed and even increased the alarm she had felt at first . 
If his manner had been merely dogged and passively fierce , as usual , she would have had no greater dislike to his company than she always felt -- perhaps , indeed , would have been rather glad to have had him at hand . 
But there was something of coarse bold admiration in his look , which terrified her very much . 
She glanced timidly towards him , uncertain whether to go forward or retreat , and he stood gazing at her like a handsome satyr ; and so they remained for some short time without stirring or breaking silence . 
At length Dolly took courage , shot past him , and hurried on . 
`` said Hugh , accommodating his pace to hers , and keeping close at her side . 
said Hugh , stooping over her so that she could feel his breath upon her forehead . 
`` Nay , mistress , '' he rejoined , endeavouring to draw her arm through his . 
At this , Maypole Hugh burst into a roar of laughter , and passing his arm about her waist , held her in his strong grasp as easily as if she had been a bird . 
`` Let me go , '' she cried , endeavouring with both her hands to push him off . 
`` You had as good be kinder to me , Sweetlips , '' said Hugh . 
She gave him no answer , but as he had not yet checked her progress , continued to press forward as rapidly as she could . 
At length , between the hurry she had made , her terror , and the tightness of his embrace , her strength failed her , and she could go no further . 
`` Hugh , '' cried the panting girl , `` good Hugh ; if you will leave me I will give you anything -- everything I have -- and never tell one word of this to any living creature . '' 
`` You had best not , '' he answered . 
There was something so thoroughly savage in the manner of these expressions , and the looks and gestures by which they were accompanied , that her great fear of him gave her new strength , and enabled her by a sudden effort to extricate herself and run fleetly from him . 
But Hugh was as nimble , strong , and swift of foot , as any man in broad England , and it was but a fruitless expenditure of energy , for he had her in his encircling arms again before she had gone a hundred yards . 
`` Softly , darling -- gently -- would you fly from rough Hugh , that loves you as well as any drawing-room gallant ? '' 
`` A fine for crying out , '' said Hugh . 
Joe , however , took down the lantern and lighted it ; and arming himself with a stout stick , asked whether Hugh was in the stable . 
Hugh ! '' 
After a few moments , Hugh came staggering in , stretching himself and yawning according to custom , and presenting every appearance of having been roused from a sound nap . 
growled Hugh , rubbing his eyes and shaking himself . 
`` They never rob me '' cried Hugh with a laugh . 
said Hugh with a glance at young Willet , so slight and momentary that the scowl it conveyed was lost on all but her . 
`` His dress '' said Hugh , looking at her keenly , `` like -- like any of ours now ? 
Dolly faltered and turned paler yet ; then answered that he was wrapped in a loose coat and had his face hidden by a handkerchief , and that she could give no other description of him . 
said Hugh with a malicious grin . 
cried Hugh . 
I love all the ladies ma'am '' said Hugh , turning to locksmith 's wife . 
Mrs. Varden opined that if he did , he ought to be ashamed of himself ; such sentiments being more consistent -LRB- so she argued -RRB- with a benighted Mussulman or wild Islander than with a stanch Protestant . 
Hugh admitting that he never had , and moreover that he could n't read , Mrs. Varden declared with much severity , that he ought to be even more ashamed of himself than before , and strongly recommended him to save up his pocket-money for the purchase of one , and further to teach himself the contents with all convenient diligence . 
She was still pursuing this train of discourse , when Hugh , somewhat unceremoniously and irreverently , followed his young master out , and left her to edify the rest of the company . 
`` Hugh ! '' 
`` He sent me . '' 
said poor Joe ; adding under his breath , with a very unfilial apostrophe , `` Will he never think me man enough to take care of myself ! '' 
returned Hugh to the first part of the inquiry . 
`` The roads are not safe just now he says , and you 'd better have a companion . '' 
Hugh complied , and they went on again . 
She had therefore nothing for it but to suffer Joe to give her hand a gentle squeeze , and when the chaise had gone on for some distance , to look back and wave it , as he still lingered on the spot where they had parted , with the tall dark figure of Hugh beside him . 
What she thought about , going home ; and whether the coachmaker held as favourable a place in her meditations as he had occupied in the morning , is unknown . 
`` Here I am , '' replied Hugh , striding in , followed by a dog , as rough and sullen as himself ; `` and trouble enough I 've had to get here . 
`` My good fellow , '' returned the other , raising his head a little from the cushion and carelessly surveying him from top to toe , `` I am delighted to see you , and to have , in your being here , the very best proof that you are not kept out . 
`` I 'm well enough , '' said Hugh impatiently . 
`` I 'd rather stand , '' said Hugh . 
His own rough speech , contrasted with the soft persuasive accents of the other ; his rude bearing , and Mr. Chester 's polished manner ; the disorder and negligence of his ragged dress , and the elegant attire he saw before him ; with all the unaccustomed luxuries and comforts of the room , and the silence that gave him leisure to observe these things , and feel how ill at ease they made him ; all these influences , which have too often some effect on tutored minds and become of almost resistless power when brought to bear on such a mind as his , quelled Hugh completely . 
`` Why , look ` ee sir , '' returned Hugh with increased embarrassment , `` am I the man that you privately left your whip with before you rode away from the Maypole , and told to bring it back whenever he might want to see you on a certain subject ? '' 
`` Then I have come sir , '' said Hugh , `` and I have brought it back , and something else along with it . 
As he spoke , he laid upon the dressing-table , Dolly 's last epistle . 
`` Not quite , '' said Hugh . 
`` Well -- a kiss , '' replied Hugh , after some hesitation . 
Hugh with a muttered oath thrust his hand into his breast , and drawing the bracelet forth , wrapped in a scrap of hay , was about to lay it on the table likewise , when his patron stopped his hand and bade him put it up again . 
`` You took that for yourself , my excellent friend , '' he said , `` and may keep it . 
Do n't let me see where you put it either , '' he added , turning away his head . 
said Hugh bluntly , despite the increasing awe in which he held him . 
striking the letter with his heavy hand . 
Hugh drew his sleeve across his lips , and gruffly answered yes . 
He obeyed . 
His patron followed him with his eyes , and when his back was turned , smiled as he had never done when he stood beside the mirror . 
`` I always am when I can get it , '' cried Hugh boisterously , waving the empty glass above his head , and throwing himself into a rude dancing attitude . 
`` Do you see this hand , master , '' said Hugh , `` and this arm ? '' 
`` I should never have been spirited up to take a kiss from the proud little beauty , master , but for the drink , '' cried Hugh . 
`` You are such a promising fellow , '' said his patron , putting on his waistcoat with great nicety , and taking no heed of this request , `` that I must caution you against having too many impulses from the drink , and getting hung before your time . 
Hugh fell back a pace or two and surveyed him with a look of mingled terror , indignation , and surprise . 
Regarding himself in the glass with the same complacency as before , and speaking as smoothly as if he were discussing some pleasant chit-chat of the town , his patron went on : `` Robbery on the king 's highway , my young friend , is a very dangerous and ticklish occupation . 
said Hugh , `` What do you talk of , master ? 
Hugh faltered , and muttered something which was not audible . 
Hugh would have answered him that he , the questioner himself , had set him on , but the words stuck in his throat . 
The consummate art with which his patron had led him to this point , and managed the whole conversation , perfectly baffled him . 
He did not doubt that if he had made the retort which was on his lips when Mr. Chester turned round and questioned him so keenly , he would straightway have given him into custody and had him dragged before a justice with the stolen property upon him ; in which case it was as certain he would have been hung as it was that he had been born . 
Hugh 's submission was complete . 
He dreaded him beyond description ; and felt that accident and artifice had spun a web about him , which at a touch from such a master-hand as his , would bind him to the gallows . 
With these thoughts passing through his mind , and yet wondering at the very same time how he who came there rioting in the confidence of this man -LRB- as he thought -RRB- , should be so soon and so thoroughly subdued , Hugh stood cowering before him , regarding him uneasily from time to time , while he finished dressing . 
When he had done so , he took up the letter , broke the seal , and throwing himself back in his chair , read it leisurely through . 
As he spoke , he twisted it up , and glancing lazily round at Hugh as though he would say `` You see this ? '' 
When it was in a full blaze , he tossed it into the grate , and there it smouldered away . 
`` It was directed to my son , '' he said , turning to Hugh , `` and you did quite right to bring it here . 
Hugh stepped forward to receive the piece of money he held out to him . 
As he put it in his hand , he added : `` If you should happen to find anything else of this sort , or to pick up any kind of information you may think I would like to have , bring it here will you , my good fellow ? '' 
This was said with a smile which implied -- or Hugh thought it did -- `` fail to do so at your peril ! '' 
He answered that he would . 
`` And do n't , '' said his patron , with an air of the very kindest patronage , `` do n't be at all downcast or uneasy respecting that little rashness we have been speaking of . 
Hugh accepted it from his hand , and looking stealthily at his smiling face , drank the contents in silence . 
You are called Hugh , I know , of course -- your other name ? '' 
`` I 'd tell it if I could , '' said Hugh , quickly . 
I have been always called Hugh ; nothing more . 
exclaimed his patron , with a condescending smile . 
said Hugh , abruptly . 
rejoined his patron , looking at him through his glass ; `` and immensely clever ? 
`` Such a dog as that , and one of the same breed , was the only living thing except me that howled that day , '' said Hugh . 
Hugh made no rejoinder , but whistling to his dog , who sprung up at the sound and came jumping and sporting about him , bade his sympathising friend good night . 
`` Good night , '' he returned . 
Hugh truckled before the hidden meaning of these words as much as such a being could , and crept out of the door so submissively and subserviently -- with an air , in short , so different from that with which he had entered -- that his patron on being left alone , smiled more than ever . 
`` And yet , '' he said , as he took a pinch of snuff , `` I do not like their having hanged his mother . 
With this comforting reflection , he put on his coat , took a farewell glance at the glass , and summoned his man , who promptly attended , followed by a chair and its two bearers . 
Joe was from home , and Hugh came sluggishly out to hand up the parcel that it called for . 
N2503031 She dropped her veil as Hugh climbed up , and while he hung behind , and talked to Barnaby in whispers . 
With his head upon the landing and his great limbs flung over half a dozen stairs , as carelessly as though he were a dead man whom drunken bearers had thrown down by chance , there lay Hugh , face uppermost , his long hair drooping like some wild weed upon his wooden pillow , and his huge chest heaving with the sounds which so unwontedly disturbed the place and hour . 
He who came upon him so unexpectedly was about to break his rest by thrusting him with his foot , when , glancing at his upturned face , he arrested himself in the very action , and stooping down and shading the candle with his hand , examined his features closely . 
Close as his first inspection was , it did not suffice , for he passed the light , still carefully shaded as before , across and across his face , and yet observed him with a searching eye . 
While he was thus engaged , the sleeper , without any starting or turning round , awoke . 
There was a kind of fascination in meeting his steady gaze so suddenly , which took from the other the presence of mind to withdraw his eyes , and forced him , as it were , to meet his look . 
`` I thought , '' said Hugh , struggling into a sitting posture and gazing at him intently , still , `` that you were a part of my dream . 
`` The -- the cold , I suppose , '' he growled , as he shook himself , and rose . 
`` You have been drinking again , my fine fellow , '' he said , as Hugh went down on one knee , and did as he was told . 
Hugh obeyed in silence . 
Hugh obeyed again -- even more zealously -- and having done so , presented himself before his patron . 
`` There was news to-day , '' returned Hugh . 
`` I supposed you 'd want to have it , '' retorted Hugh . 
`` If you do n't want it , '' said Hugh , disconcerted by this reproof , for he had expected high praise , `` give it me back , and I 'll deliver it . 
Hugh understood him perfectly . 
After a pause he muttered that he hoped his patron would involve him in no trouble about this last letter ; for he had kept it back solely with the view of pleasing him . 
He was continuing in this strain , when Mr. Chester with a most beneficent and patronising air cut him short by saying ; `` My good fellow , you have my promise , my word , my sealed bond -LRB- for a verbal pledge with me is quite as good -RRB- , that I will always protect you so long as you deserve it . 
I am more disposed to mercy and forbearance under such circumstances than I can tell you , Hugh . 
`` They think , '' said Hugh , when he had tossed the liquor down , `` that I am sleeping soundly in the stable . 
`` You are a most convivial fellow , '' returned his friend , `` and I love your humour of all things . 
They interchanged one brief and hasty glance as Hugh went out , averted their eyes directly , and so separated . 
Hugh closed the double doors behind him , carefully and without noise ; and Mr. Chester remained in his easy chair , with his gaze intently fixed upon the fire . 
He went to bed and fell asleep , but had not slept long when he started up and thought that Hugh was at the outer door , calling in a strange voice , very different from his own , to be admitted . 
The delusion was so strong upon him , and was so full of that vague terror of the night in which such visions have their being , that he rose , and taking his sheathed sword in his hand , opened the door , and looked out upon the staircase , and towards the spot where Hugh had lain asleep ; and even spoke to him by name . 
But all was dark and quiet , and creeping back to bed again , he fell , after an hour 's uneasy watching , into a second sleep , and woke no more till morning . 
John Willet , who was toasting his red face before a great fire in the bar , and who , with surpassing foresight and quickness of apprehension , had been thinking , as he looked at the blue sky , that if that state of things lasted much longer , it might ultimately become necessary to leave off fires and throw the windows open , issued forth to hold his stirrup ; calling lustily for Hugh . 
`` But you have a son , '' returned Mr. Chester , giving his bridle to Hugh as he dismounted , and acknowledging his salute by a careless motion of his hand towards his hat . 
returned Hugh angrily . 
If you do n't know your distance , sir , '' added Mr. Willet , after an enormously long pause , during which he fixed his great dull eyes on Hugh , and waited with exemplary patience for any little property in the way of ideas that might be coming to him , `` we 'll find a way to teach you , pretty soon . '' 
Hugh shrugged his shoulders scornfully , and in his reckless swaggering way , crossed to the other side of the little green , and there , with the bridle slung loosely over his shoulder , led the horse to and fro , glancing at his master every now and then from under his bushy eyebrows , with as sinister an aspect as one would desire to see . 
`` Strange enough to look at sir , certainly , '' answered the host ; `` but out of doors ; for horses , dogs , and the like of that ; there a n't a better man in England than is that Maypole Hugh yonder . 
He a n't fit for indoors , '' added Mr. Willet , with the confidential air of a man who felt his own superior nature , `` I do that ; but if that chap had only a little imagination , sir -- '' `` He 's an active fellow now , I dare swear , '' said Mr. Chester , in a musing tone , which seemed to suggest that he would have said the same had there been nobody to hear him . 
Hugh made no answer , but throwing the bridle to his master , and snatching his wig from his head , in a manner so unceremonious and hasty that the action discomposed Mr. Willet not a little , though performed at his own special desire , climbed nimbly to the very summit of the maypole before the house , and hanging the wig upon the weathercock , sent it twirling round like a roasting jack . 
Hugh -- Hugh . 
Hugh , with much low growling and muttering , went back into his lair ; and presently re-appeared , carrying a lantern and a cudgel , and enveloped from head to foot in an old , frowsy , slouching horse-cloth . 
said Hugh . 
Hugh obeyed with a very indifferent grace , and a longing glance at the bottles . 
But Hugh , who had a sight as keen as any hawk 's , and , apart from that endowment , could have found his way blindfold to any place within a dozen miles , dragged old John along , quite deaf to his remonstrances , and took his own course without the slightest reference to , or notice of , his master . 
So they made head against the wind as they best could ; Hugh crushing the wet grass beneath his heavy tread , and stalking on after his ordinary savage fashion ; John Willet following at arm 's length , picking his steps , and looking about him , now for bogs and ditches , and now for such stray ghosts as might be wandering abroad , with looks of as much dismay and uneasiness as his immoveable face was capable of expressing . 
asked Hugh , holding the lantern to his breast , to keep the candle from the wind , while he trimmed it with his fingers . 
cried Hugh , looking into John 's fat face . 
Hugh , who had already reached the turret , held it more steadily , and ascended first , turning round from time to time to shed his light downward on the steps . 
Mr. Haredale following next , eyed his lowering face with no great favour ; and Hugh , looking down on him , returned his glances with interest , as they climbed the winding stair . 
`` Not you , friend , '' he added hastily to Hugh , who entered also . 
Hugh shrugged his shoulders , and with a disdainful look , which showed , either that he had overheard , or that he guessed the purport of their whispering , did as he was told . 
Hugh , who was , or feigned to be , fast asleep on the anti-chamber floor , sprang up on their entrance , and throwing his cloak about him , grasped his stick and lantern , and prepared to descend the stairs . 
Half the distance is done , '' said Hugh . 
As John made no reply , Mr. Haredale brought out a glass of liquor , and gave it to Hugh , who , as he took it in his hand , threw part of it upon the floor . 
`` I 'm drinking a toast , '' Hugh rejoined , holding the glass above his head , and fixing his eyes on Mr. Haredale 's face ; `` a toast to this house and its master . '' 
John was a good deal scandalised by this observance , but seeing that Mr. Haredale took little heed of what Hugh said or did , and that his thoughts were otherwise employed , he offered no apology , and went in silence down the stairs , across the walk , and through the garden-gate . 
They stopped upon the outer side for Hugh to hold the light while Mr. Haredale locked it on the inner ; and then John saw with wonder -LRB- as he often afterwards related -RRB- , that he was very pale , and that his face had changed so much and grown so haggard since their entrance , that he almost seemed another man . 
They were in the open road again , and John Willet was walking on behind his escort , as he had come , thinking very steadily of what he had just now seen , when Hugh drew him suddenly aside , and almost at the same instant three horsemen swept past -- the nearest brushed his shoulder even then -- who , checking their steeds as suddenly as they could , stood still , and waited for their coming up . 
When John Willet saw that the horsemen wheeled smartly round , and drew up three abreast in the narrow road , waiting for him and his man to join them , it occurred to him with unusual precipitation that they must be highwaymen ; and had Hugh been armed with a blunderbuss , in place of his stout cudgel , he would certainly have ordered him to fire it off at a venture , and would , while the word of command was obeyed , have consulted his own personal safety in immediate flight . 
Under the circumstances of disadvantage , however , in which he and his guard were placed , he deemed it prudent to adopt a different style of generalship , and therefore whispered his attendant to address them in the most peaceable and courteous terms . 
By way of acting up to the spirit and letter of this instruction , Hugh stepped forward , and flourishing his staff before the very eyes of the rider nearest to him , demanded roughly what he and his fellows meant by so nearly galloping over them , and why they scoured the king 's highway at that late hour of night . 
`` If you follow it right , it is , '' replied Hugh roughly . 
`` And I wish , '' he added in a subdued voice , as he turned to Hugh , `` that you was in any other road , you vagabond . 
John made no answer , but looking straight before him , as his custom seemed to be when the secretary spoke , bade Hugh push on , and followed close behind him . 
Then came his lordship , with Mr. Willet at his bridle rein ; and , last of all , his lordship 's secretary -- for that , it seemed , was Gashford 's office . 
Hugh strode briskly on , often looking back at the servant , whose horse was close upon his heels , and glancing with a leer at his holster case of pistols , by which he seemed to set great store . 
He was a square-built , strong-made , bull-necked fellow , of the true English breed ; and as Hugh measured him with his eye , he measured Hugh , regarding him meanwhile with a look of bluff disdain . 
He was much older than the Maypole man , being to all appearance five-and-forty ; but was one of those self-possessed , hard-headed , imperturbable fellows , who , if they ever are beat at fisty-cuffs , or other kind of warfare , never know it , and go on coolly till they win . 
`` If I led you wrong now , '' said Hugh , tauntingly , `` you 'd -- ha ha ha ! 
John Grueby took no more notice of this remark than if he had been deaf and Hugh dumb ; but kept riding on , quite comfortably , with his eyes fixed on the horizon . 
said Hugh . 
John Grueby looked at him sideways with the same contented air , but deigned not a word in answer . 
said Hugh , giving his cudgel one of those skilful flourishes , in which the rustic of that time delighted . 
It was a pretty smart , loud-sounding rap , as it was , and evidently astonished Hugh ; who , for the moment , seemed disposed to drag his new acquaintance from his saddle . 
But his face betokening neither malice , triumph , rage , nor any lingering idea that he had given him offence ; his eyes gazing steadily in the old direction , and his manner being as careless and composed as if he had merely brushed away a fly ; Hugh was so puzzled , and so disposed to look upon him as a customer of almost supernatural toughness , that he merely laughed , and cried `` Well done ! '' 
Lord George and his secretary quickly dismounting , gave their horses to their servant , who , under the guidance of Hugh , repaired to the stables . 
John , with the tall candlesticks in his hands , bowed them up to the fire-place ; Hugh , striding in with a lighted brand and pile of fire-wood , cast it down upon the hearth , and set it in a blaze ; John Grueby -LRB- who had a great blue cockade in his hat , which he appeared to despise mightily -RRB- brought in the portmanteau he had carried on his horse , and placed it on the floor ; and presently all three were busily engaged in drawing out the screen , laying the cloth , inspecting the beds , lighting fires in the bedrooms , expediting the supper , and making everything as cosy and as snug as might be , on so short a notice . 
But John had brought this new visitor to the door , and he walked in unbidden , as the words were uttered ; giving to view the form and features , rough attire , and reckless air , of Hugh . 
N2503042 The secretary put his hand before his eyes to shade them from the glare of the lamp , and for some moments looked at Hugh with a frowning brow , as if he remembered to have seen him lately , but could not call to mind where , or on what occasion . 
His uncertainty was very brief , for before Hugh had spoken a word , he said , as his countenance cleared up : `` Ay , ay , I recollect . 
`` Your servant , master , '' said Hugh , as Grueby disappeared . 
Hugh gave a short laugh , and thrusting his hand into his breast , produced one of the handbills , soiled and dirty from lying out of doors all night , which he laid upon the secretary 's desk after flattening it upon his knee , and smoothing out the wrinkles with his heavy palm . 
A little disconcerted by this reception , Hugh looked from the secretary to Dennis , who had risen and was standing at the table too , observing the stranger by stealth , and seeming to derive the utmost satisfaction from his manners and appearance . 
I 'll take my oath he do n't ; '' and hiding his profile from Hugh with one long end of his frowzy neckerchief , nodded and chuckled behind this screen in extreme approval of the secretary 's proceedings . 
asked Hugh . 
Whether Hugh heard him , or saw by his manner that he was being played upon , or perceived the secretary 's drift of himself , he came in his blunt way to the point at once . 
he said , stretching out his hand and taking it back ; `` never mind the bill , or what it says , or what it do n't say . 
cried Hugh . 
With these and other expressions of confidence of the like flattering kind , Mr. Dennis gave him a hearty slap on the back , which Hugh was not slow to return . 
responded Hugh . 
The enrolment being completed , and Hugh having been informed by Gashford , in his peculiar manner , of the peaceful and strictly lawful objects contemplated by the body to which he now belonged -- during which recital Mr. Dennis nudged him very much with his elbow , and made divers remarkable faces -- the secretary gave them both to understand that he desired to be alone . 
returned Hugh . 
Hugh answering in the affirmative , they went slowly down to Westminster , where both houses of Parliament were then sitting . 
Mingling in the crowd of carriages , horses , servants , chairmen , link-boys , porters , and idlers of all kinds , they lounged about ; while Hugh 's new friend pointed out to him significantly the weak parts of the building , how easy it was to get into the lobby , and so to the very door of the House of Commons ; and how plainly , when they marched down there in grand array , their roars and shouts would be heard by the members inside ; with a great deal more to the same purpose , all of which Hugh received with manifest delight . 
He told him , too , who some of the Lords and Commons were , by name , as they came in and out ; whether they were friendly to the Papists or otherwise ; and bade him take notice of their liveries and equipages , that he might be sure of them , in case of need . 
Sometimes he drew him close to the windows of a passing carriage , that he might see its master 's face by the light of the lamps ; and , both in respect of people and localities , he showed so much acquaintance with everything around , that it was plain he had often studied there before ; as indeed , when they grew a little more confidential , he confessed he had . 
To the greater part of these , a slight nod or a look from Hugh 's companion was sufficient greeting ; but , now and then , some man would come and stand beside him in the throng , and , without turning his head or appearing to communicate with him , would say a word or two in a low voice , which he would answer in the same cautious manner . 
Some of these men often reappeared again unexpectedly in the crowd close to Hugh , and , as they passed by , pressed his hand , or looked him sternly in the face ; but they never spoke to him , nor he to them ; no , not a word . 
It was remarkable , too , that whenever they happened to stand where there was any press of people , and Hugh chanced to be looking downward , he was sure to see an arm stretched out -- under his own perhaps , or perhaps across him -- which thrust some paper into the hand or pocket of a bystander , and was so suddenly withdrawn that it was impossible to tell from whom it came ; nor could he see in any face , on glancing quickly round , the least confusion or surprise . 
`` The hotter the better , '' said Hugh , `` I 'm prepared for anything . '' 
-- `` So am I , '' said his friend , `` and so are many of us ; '' and they shook hands upon it with a great oath , and with many terrible imprecations on the Papists . 
Hugh yielding a ready assent , they bent their steps that way with no loss of time . 
The tavern stood at some distance from any high road , and was approachable only by a dark and narrow lane ; so that Hugh was much surprised to find several people drinking there , and great merriment going on . 
He was still more surprised to find among them almost every face that had caught his attention in the crowd ; but his companion having whispered him outside the door , that it was not considered good manners at the Boot to appear at all curious about the company , he kept his own counsel , and made no show of recognition . 
Before putting his lips to the liquor which was brought for them , Dennis drank in a loud voice the health of Lord George Gordon , President of the Great Protestant Association ; which toast Hugh pledged likewise , with corresponding enthusiasm . 
A fiddler who was present , and who appeared to act as the appointed minstrel of the company , forthwith struck up a Scotch reel ; and that in tones so invigorating , that Hugh and his friend -LRB- who had both been drinking before -RRB- rose from their seats as by previous concert , and , to the great admiration of the assembled guests , performed an extemporaneous No-Popery Dance . 
N2503043 N2503044 HE applause which the performance of Hugh and his new friend elicited from the company at The Boot , had not yet subsided , and the two dancers were still panting from their exertions , which had been of a rather extreme and violent character , when the party was reinforced by the arrival of some more guests , who , being a detachment of United Bulldogs , were received with very flattering marks of distinction and respect . 
he cried , as he slapped Hugh on the back . 
`` Looks or no looks , '' said Hugh , with a drunken flourish of his arm , `` I 'm the man you want . 
`` Was there ever , '' said Dennis , looking round the room , when the echo of his boisterous voice had died away ; `` was there ever such a game boy ! 
The greater part of the company implicitly subscribed to this opinion , and testified their faith in Hugh , by nods and looks of great significance . 
`` It 's like you may , '' said Hugh , in his careless way . 
The encouraging way in which Mr. Tappertit made this request , and coupled it with an assurance that he need n't be frightened , amused Hugh mightily -- so much indeed , that he saw nothing at all of the small man before him , through closing his eyes in a fit of hearty laughter , which shook his great broad sides until they ached again . 
`` Not I , '' cried Hugh . 
Hugh opened his eyes on hearing this , and looked at him in great surprise . 
`` Why it a n't -- '' Hugh faltered . 
Certainly Hugh did , and he remembered D. Varden too ; but that he did n't tell him . 
cried Hugh . 
cried Hugh . 
roared Hugh . 
With these conciliatory expressions he suited the action to the word ; and Hugh meeting his advances readily , they performed the ceremony with a show of great heartiness . 
`` Not a syllable , '' replied Hugh . 
Hugh laughed again , and with such thorough abandonment to his mad humour , that his limbs seemed dislocated , and his whole frame in danger of tumbling to pieces ; but Mr. Tappertit , so far from receiving this extreme merriment with any irritation , was pleased to regard it with the utmost favour , and even to join in it , so far as one of his gravity and station could , with any regard to that decency and decorum which men in high places are expected to maintain . 
Mr. Tappertit did not stop here , as many public characters might have done , but calling up his brace of lieutenants , introduced Hugh to them with high commendation ; declaring him to be a man who , at such times as those in which they lived , could not be too much cherished . 
Further , he did him the honour to remark , that he would be an acquisition of which even the United Bulldogs might be proud ; and finding , upon sounding him , that he was quite ready and willing to enter the society -LRB- for he was not at all particular , and would have leagued himself that night with anything , or anybody , for any purpose whatsoever -RRB- , caused the necessary preliminaries to be gone into upon the spot . 
This tribute to his great merit delighted no man more than Mr. Dennis , as he himself proclaimed with several rare and surprising oaths ; and indeed it gave unmingled satisfaction to the whole assembly . 
cried Hugh , flourishing the can he had emptied more than once . 
With that , he smote Mr. Tappertit on the back , with such violence that his little body seemed to shrink into a mere nothing ; and roared again until the very foundlings near at hand were startled in their beds . 
His dignified self-possession only delighted Hugh the more ; and in a word , this giant and dwarf struck up a friendship which bade fair to be of long continuance , as the one held it to be his right to command , and the other considered it an exquisite pleasantry to obey . 
Nor was Hugh by any means a passive follower , who scrupled to act without precise and definite orders ; for when Mr. Tappertit mounted on an empty cask which stood by way of rostrum in the room , and volunteered a speech upon the alarming crisis then at hand , he placed himself beside the orator , and though he grinned from ear to ear at every word he said , threw out such expressive hints to scoffers in the management of his cudgel , that those who were at first the most disposed to interrupt , became remarkably attentive , and were the loudest in their approbation . 
N2503046 In the midst of all his merriment , and admiration of his captain , Hugh was made sensible by these and other tokens , of the presence of an air of mystery , akin to that which had so much impressed him out of doors . 
cried Hugh , when they had roared themselves out of breath . 
`` Answer the captain instantly , '' cried Hugh , beating his hat down on his head ; `` why do n't you ever tell what trade you 're of ? '' 
He heaved a deep sigh as he indulged in these reflections , and putting his fingers with an absent air on Hugh 's throat , and particularly under his left ear , as if he were studying the anatomical development of that part of his frame , shook his head in a despondent manner and actually shed tears . 
As they happened to be near the Old Bailey , and Mr. Dennis knew there were turnkeys in the lodge with whom he could pass the night , and discuss professional subjects of common interest among them before a rousing fire , and over a social glass , he separated from his companions without any great regret , and warmly shaking hands with Hugh , and making an early appointment for their meeting at The Boot , left them to pursue their road . 
`` He 's a lucky man , captain , '' cried Hugh . 
`` I quite forgot , '' said Hugh , who had started at the striking of a neighbouring clock . 
Mr. Tappertit looked at him as though he were about to give utterance to some very majestic sentiments in reference to this act of desertion , but as it was clear , from Hugh 's hasty manner , that the engagement was one of a pressing nature , he graciously forbore , and gave him his permission to depart immediately , which Hugh acknowledged with a roar of laughter . 
he cried . 
roared Hugh . 
Whereat Hugh cheered and laughed , and ran off like a greyhound . 
Little thinking of the plan for his happy settlement in life which had suggested itself to the teeming brain of his provident commander , Hugh made no pause until Saint Dunstan 's giants struck the hour above him , when he worked the handle of a pump which stood hard by , with great vigour , and thrusting his head under the spout , let the water gush upon him until a little stream ran down from every uncombed hair , and he was wet to the waist . 
Considerably refreshed by this ablution , both in mind and body , and almost sobered for the time , he dried himself as he best could ; then crossed the road , and plied the knocker of the Middle Temple gate . 
which greeting Hugh returned in kind , and bade him open quickly . 
`` To come in , '' Hugh replied , with a kick at the door . 
Each of which answers , he emphasised with another kick . 
After a little growling on the other side , the gate was opened , and he passed in : undergoing a close inspection from the porter as he did so . 
said Hugh . 
Eyeing him with suspicious looks , the man , with key and lantern , walked on at his side , and attended him to Sir John Chester 's door , at which Hugh gave one knock , that echoed through the dark staircase like a ghostly summons , and made the dull light tremble in the drowsy lamp . 
said Hugh . 
Instead of replying , Hugh changed the leg on which he leant , shuffled his cap from one hand to the other , looked at the ground , the wall , the ceiling , and finally at Sir John himself ; before whose pleasant face he lowered his eyes again , and fixed them on the floor . 
`` No harm at all , Master , '' growled Hugh , with humility . 
`` Well then , '' said Hugh uneasily , `` as you advised , or said I ought , or said I might , or said that you would do , if you was me . 
Something like an expression of triumph in the perfect control he had established over this rough instrument , appeared in the knight 's face for an instant ; but it vanished directly , as he said -- paring his nails while speaking : `` When you say I ordered you , my good fellow , you imply that I directed you to do something for me -- something I wanted done -- something for my own ends and purposes -- you see ? 
Now I am sure I need n't enlarge upon the extreme absurdity of such an idea , however unintentional ; so , please -- '' and here he turned his eyes upon him -- `` to be more guarded . 
`` I meant to give you no offence , '' said Hugh . 
`` You will be caught up much shorter , my good friend -- infinitely shorter -- one of these days , depend upon it , '' replied his patron , calmly . 
`` You know , master , '' said Hugh , `` that I could n't read the bill I found , and that supposing it to be something particular from the way it was wrapped up , I brought it here . '' 
`` I have come to and fro , master , all through that time , when there was anything to tell , because I knew that you 'd be angry with me if I stayed away , '' said Hugh , blurting the words out , after an embarrassed silence ; `` and because I wished to please you , if I could , and not to have you go against me . 
cried Hugh , his passion rising , as the other meant it should ; `` and I say it all over now , again . 
`` You are in a blustering mood , my friend , '' he said , when Hugh confronted him again . 
cried Hugh . 
`` He would n't say , '' cried Hugh . 
`` We 're intimate already , '' said Hugh . 
Hugh had not said or thought of saying , but he told him ; and this inquiry being followed by a long train of questions , he related all that had passed both in and out of doors , the kind of people he had seen , their numbers , state of feeling , mode of conversation , apparent expectations and intentions . 
His questioning was so artfully contrived , that he seemed even in his own eyes to volunteer all this information rather than to have it wrested from him ; and he was brought to this state of feeling so naturally , that when Mr. Chester yawned at length and declared himself quite wearied out , he made a rough kind of excuse for having talked so much . 
`` I would , '' retorted Hugh , stopping in his passage out , and looking back ; `` but what do I risk ! 
Hugh nodded , and touching his cap with an air of as much respect as he could summon up , departed . 
He even asked him carelessly about the man 's height , his face , his figure , whether he was like any one he had ever seen -- like Hugh , for instance , or any man he had known at any time -- and put many questions of that sort , which the locksmith , considering them as mere devices to engage his attention and prevent his expressing the astonishment he felt , answered pretty much at random . 
There was a fire in the rusty grate -LRB- for though the spring was pretty far advanced , the nights were cold -RRB- , and on a stool beside it Hugh sat smoking . 
`` Oh , nothing , nothing , '' rejoined the secretary , with a friendly nod to Hugh . 
cried Hugh . 
`` I do n't know that , '' replied Hugh . 
Hugh sat and smoked in silence . 
`` Why then , Lord love you , '' said the hangman , in his hoarsest chuckle , as he pointed with his pipe to Hugh , `` there he sets . 
My stars and halters , Muster Gashford , '' he added in a whisper , as he drew his stool close to him and jogged him with his elbow , `` what a interesting blade ho is ! 
cried Hugh in a surly voice , as he overheard this last remark . 
The secretary laughed at this jest as much as Dennis could desire , and when he had done , said , turning to Hugh : `` Dennis 's policy was mine , as you may have observed . 
The secretary 's face , as Dennis roared with laughter , and turned his wrinkled eyes on Hugh who did the like , might have furnished a study for the devil 's picture . 
cried Hugh . 
cried Hugh ; `` this suits me ! '' 
Hugh readily complied ; pouring no liquor on the floor when he drank this toast ; and they pledged the secretary as a man after their own hearts , in a bumper . 
Hugh ! '' 
`` Hugh ! '' 
echoed the other ; `` ay , Hugh -- Maypole Hugh ! 
He 's alive now , and will know you , I warrant . 
`` It has n't in it a better , nor a nimbler , nor a more active man , than Barnaby Rudge , '' said Hugh . 
He shall march , my Lord , between me and Dennis ; and he shall carry , '' he added , taking a flag from the hand of a tired man who tendered it , `` the gayest silken streamer in this valiant army . '' 
cried Hugh , stepping between them , and holding her off . 
`` Nothing like it , captain , '' answered Hugh , still holding her back with his outstretched hand . 
cried Simon , with the whole power of his lungs . 
The conduct of a second party , whose route lay be Blackfriars , was entrusted to a committee of management , including perhaps a dozen men : while the third , which was to go by London Bridge , and through the main streets , in order that their numbers and their serious intentions might be the better known and appreciated by the citizens , were led by Simon Tappertit -LRB- assisted by a few subalterns , selected from the Brotherhood of United Bull-dogs -RRB- , Dennis the hangman , Hugh , and some others . 
At the head of this party , in the place where Hugh , in the madness of his humour , had stationed him , and walking between that dangerous companion and the hangman , went Barnaby ; as many a man among the thousands who looked on that day afterwards remembered well . 
asked Hugh , as they passed through the crowded streets , and looked up at the windows which were thronged with spectators . 
Barnaby had been gazing at his flag , and looked vacantly from his questioner to Hugh . 
`` She would be proud indeed to see me now , eh Hugh ? '' 
`` Do n't be uneasy , brother , '' cried Hugh , `` he 's only talking of his mother . '' 
`` Barnaby 's right , '' cried Hugh with a grin , `` and I say it . 
Kind Hugh ! '' 
`` But nothing to what will come , bless you , '' retorted Hugh , with a wink at Dennis , who regarded his new companion in arms with great astonishment . 
`` Nothing at all , '' said Hugh . 
cried Barnaby with glistening eyes , as he clutched his pole the tighter ; `` I warrant you I keep this one safe , then . 
You know me , Hugh . 
cried Hugh . 
-- Do n't you see man , '' he added in a whisper , as he slipped to the other side of Dennis , `` that the lad 's a natural , and can be got to do anything , if you take him the right way . 
Hugh , laying his finger on his nose , stepped back into his former place , and they proceeded in silence . 
To the last-named place , Hugh and Dennis , still with their pupil between them , rushed straightway ; Barnaby having given his flag into the hands of one of their own party , who kept them at the outer door . 
It was on these stairs that Barnaby , Hugh , and Dennis were posted . 
cried Hugh , in a voice which made itself heard even above the roar and tumult , as Lord George appeared at the top of the staircase . 
Many tried to turn towards the door ; some of the faintest-hearted cried that they had best go back , and called to those behind to give way ; and the panic and confusion were increasing rapidly , when Gashford whispered Hugh . 
Hugh roared aloud , turning towards them . 
Without the delay of an instant , he threw himself headlong over the bannisters into the lobby below . 
He had hardly touched the ground when Barnaby was at his side . 
As the whole stream turned at once , Barnaby and Hugh went with it : and so , fighting and struggling and trampling on fallen men and being trampled on in turn themselves , they and the whole mass floated by degrees into the open street , where a large detachment of the Guards , both horse and foot , came hurrying up ; clearing the ground before them so rapidly that the people seemed to melt away as they advanced . 
In the first rank of the insurgents , Barnaby and Hugh stood side by side . 
As the horses came in among them , the throng gave way at many points , and the Guards , following up their advantage , were rapidly clearing the ground , when two or three of the foremost , who were in a manner cut off from the rest by the people closing round them , made straight towards Barnaby and Hugh , who had no doubt been pointed out as the two men who dropped into the lobby ; laying about them now with some effect , and inflicting on the more turbulent of their opponents , a few slight flesh wounds , under the influence of which a man dropped , here and there , into the arms of his fellows , amid much groaning and confusion . 
But he stood his ground , and grasping his pole more firmly yet , kept his eye fixed upon the nearest soldier -- nodding his head meanwhile , as Hugh , with a scowling visage , whispered in his ear . 
The soldier came spurring on , making his horse rear as the people pressed about him , cutting at the hands of those who would have grasped his rein and forced his charger back , and waving to his comrades to follow -- and still Barnaby , without retreating an inch , waited for his coming . 
Then he and Hugh turned and fled ; the crowd opening to let them pass , and closing up again so quickly that there was no clue to the course they had taken . 
But the crowd passing along Westminster Bridge , soon assured them that the populace were dispersing ; and Hugh rightly guessed from this , that they had cheered the magistrate for offering to dismiss the military on condition of their immediate departure to their several homes ; and that he and Barnaby were better where they were . 
Not at all ill-pleased to have so narrowly escaped the cavalcade , they lost no more time in asking questions , but hurried to the Boot with as much speed as Hugh considered it prudent to make , without appearing singular or attracting an inconvenient share of public notice . 
`` Do n't be too sure of that , '' rejoined the hangman , calling after him ; `` if I was a horned animal at the present moment , with the smallest grain of sense , I 'd toss every man in this company , excepting them two , '' meaning Hugh and Barnaby , `` for his manner of conducting himself this day . '' 
The half-dozen prisoners whom the Guards had taken , were magnified by report into half a hundred at least ; and their friends , being faint and sober , so slackened in their energy , and so drooped beneath these dispiriting influences , that by eight o'clock in the evening , Dennis , Hugh , and Barnaby , were left alone . 
said Hugh . 
repeated the secretary , looking at him in a sort of abstraction . 
As he said this , he took a penknife from his pocket , and putting his hat upon his knee , began to busy himself in ripping off the blue cockade which he had worn all day ; at the same time humming a psalm tune which had been very popular in the morning , and dwelling on it with a gentle regret . 
His two adherents looked at each other , and at him , as if they were at a loss how to pursue the subject . 
At length Hugh , after some elbowing and winking between himself and Mr. Dennis , ventured to stay his hand , and to ask him why he meddled with that riband in his hat . 
cried Hugh . 
`` Nothing , '' returned Gashford , shrugging his shoulders ; `` nothing , When my Lord was reproached and threatened for standing by you , I , as a prudent man , would have had you do nothing . 
cried Hugh . 
cried Hugh , starting up . 
`` If you are cast into prison ; if the young man -- '' here he looked hard at Barnaby 's attentive face -- `` is dragged from us and from his friends ; perhaps from people whom he loves , and whom his death would kill ; is thrown into jail , brought out and hanged before their eyes ; still , do nothing . 
cried Hugh , striding towards the door . 
cried Hugh . 
Hugh wiped his heated brow , and relaxed into a smile . 
Hugh poised his sturdy arm aloft , and clapping Barnaby on the back , bade him fear nothing . 
cried Hugh . 
He stopped in the middle of a laugh , listened , drew on his gloves , and , clasping his hands behind him , paced the deserted room for a long time , then bent his steps towards the busy town , and walked into the streets . 
Covered with soot , and dirt , and dust , and lime ; their garments torn to rags ; their hair hanging wildly about them ; their hands and faces jagged and bleeding with the wounds of rusty nails ; Barnaby , Hugh , and Dennis hurried on before them all , like hideous madmen . 
`` I hope , '' said Dennis , as , with a loud yawn , he raised his body from a heap of straw on which he had been sleeping , and supporting his head upon his hand , appealed to Hugh on Sunday morning , `` that Muster Gashford allows some rest ? 
`` It 's not his way to let matters drop , you may be sure of that , '' growled Hugh in answer . 
`` For the matter of that , '' returned Hugh , shaking back his ragged hair and glancing towards the door of the stable in which they lay ; `` there 's one yonder as good as me . 
Mr. Dennis rolled lazily over upon his breast , and resting his chin upon his hand in imitation of the attitude in which Hugh lay , said , as he too looked towards the door : `` Ay ay , you knew him brother , you knew him . 
To Hugh and his companion , who lay in a dark corner of the gloomy shed , he , and the sunlight , and the peaceful Sabbath sound to which he made response , seemed like a bright picture framed by the door , and set off by the stable 's blackness . 
said Hugh at length , carrying it off with a laugh : `` He 's a rare fellow is Barnaby , and can do more , with less rest , or meat , or drink , than any of us . 
`` Why , you see , '' said Hugh , crawling a little nearer to him , `` that our noble captain yonder , came in yesterday morning rather the worse for liquor , and was -- like you and me -- ditto last night . '' 
`` And our noble captain , '' continued Hugh with another laugh , `` our noble captain and I , have planned for to-morrow a roaring expedition , with good profit in it . '' 
`` The same man , '' said Hugh . 
The captain , '' added Hugh , `` has thoughts of carrying off a woman in the bustle , and -- ha ha ha ! 
He might have expatiated on this suggestive theme at much greater length , but that it occurred to him to ask what connexion existed between the proposed expedition and Barnaby 's being posted at the stable door as sentry ; to which Hugh cautiously replied in these words : `` Why , the people we mean to visit , were friends of his once upon a time , and I know that much of him to feel pretty sure that if he thought we were going to do them any harm , he 'd be no friend to our side , but would lend a ready hand to the other . 
Mr. Dennis exhausted himself in compliments , and then added , `` But about the expedition itself -- '' `` About that , '' said Hugh , `` you shall hear all particulars from me and the great captain conjointly and both together -- for see , he 's waking up . 
There 's enough of gold and silver cups and candlesticks buried underneath my bed , '' he added , rolling back the straw , and pointing to where the ground was newly turned , `` to pay for it , if it was a score of casks full . 
With Hugh 's assistance , however , he contrived to stagger to the pump ; and having refreshed himself with an abundant draught of cold water , and a copious shower of the same refreshing liquid on his head and face , he ordered some rum and milk to be served ; and upon that innocent beverage and some biscuits and cheese made a pretty hearty meal . 
The largest body , and that which augmented with the greatest rapidity , was the one to which Hugh and Barnaby belonged . 
Keeping up with him , and yet not seeming to speak , Hugh muttered in his ear : `` Is this better , master ? '' 
said Hugh . 
`` A little patience , master , '' said Hugh . 
With that , he fell back into his place beside Barnaby ; and when the secretary looked after him , both were lost in the crowd . 
It was between two and three o'clock in the afternoon when Gashford looked into the lair described in the last chapter , and seeing only Barnaby and Dennis there , inquired for Hugh . 
He was out , Barnaby told him ; had gone out more than an hour ago ; and had not yet returned . 
he cried joyfully , welcoming Hugh with both hands , and then patting him fondly on the back , as if instead of being the rough companion he was , he had been one of the most prepossessing of men . 
I am glad to see him back again , old Hugh ! '' 
`` I 'm a Turk if he do n't give me a warmer welcome always than any man of sense , '' said Hugh , shaking hands with him with a kind of ferocious friendship , strange enough to see . 
And merry too , Hugh ! 
And ready to do anything for the good cause , and the right , and to help the kind , mild , pale-faced gentleman -- the Lord they use so ill -- eh , Hugh ? '' 
`` So would you have been , master , '' said Hugh , wiping his face , `` if you 'd been running here as fast as I have . '' 
cried Gashford , raising his eyebrows with an exclamation of surprise . 
he smilingly asked , as he took a large paper from his pocket , unfolded it , and held it out for Hugh 's inspection . 
said Hugh . 
`` I told you , the first time I saw you , that I could n't read , '' said Hugh , impatiently . 
cried Hugh , with an indifferent air . 
stammered Hugh , with an unsuccessful effort to appear surprised . 
`` No , '' said Hugh , with a hasty glance towards Dennis . 
Among others -- '' and here he clenched his teeth , as if he would suppress , by force , some violent words that rose upon his tongue ; and spoke very slowly . 
Hugh would have prevented his uttering the word , but it was out already . 
cried Hugh , assuming his wildest and most rapid manner , and thrusting into his hand his staff and flag which leant against the wall . 
The look of mingled astonishment and anger which had appeared in his face when he turned towards them , faded from it , as the words passed from his memory , like breath from a polished mirror ; and grasping the weapon which Hugh forced upon him , he proudly took his station at the door , beyond their hearing . 
`` You might have spoiled our plans , master , '' said Hugh . 
`` He 's as quick sometimes -- I do n't mean with his hands , for that you know , but with his head -- as you , or any man , '' said Hugh . 
said the secretary , adjusting it for him as he desired . 
He said it with such a provoking assumption of ignorance , that Hugh , looking over his shoulder and angrily down upon him , replied : `` Is there ! 
`` There 's one we know of , '' returned Gashford , with an expressive smile , `` who is at least as well informed upon that subject as you or I. '' `` If we mean the same gentleman , as I suppose we do , '' Hugh rejoined , softly , `` I tell you this -- he 's as good and quick information about everything as -- '' here he paused and looked round , as if to make quite sure that the person in question was not within hearing -- `` as Old Nick himself . 
Hugh replied . 
cried Hugh , nudging the grinning Dennis . 
Wo n't you , Dennis -- wo n't you , Hugh ? '' 
They were yet in sight , and hastening to that part of the adjacent fields in which their fellows had already mustered ; Hugh was looking back , and flourishing his hat to Barnaby , who , delighted with his trust , replied in the same manner , and then resumed his pacing up and down before the stable-door , where his feet had worn a path already . 
It was numerous , and composed of picked men ; for as he gazed down among them , he recognised many upturned faces which he knew well -- those of Simon Tappertit , Hugh , and Dennis in the front , of course . 
Hugh merely raised his hat upon the bludgeon he carried , and glancing at a spectator on the opposite side of the way , was gone . 
For all that , and quick and dexterous as he was , Gashford had seen him recognise Hugh with the air of a patron . 
Mr. Willet looked at him , and saw it was Hugh ; but he said nothing , and thought nothing . 
cried Hugh , thrusting him back towards the house . 
''' cried Hugh , with a roar of laughter which was loudly echoed by the crowd . 
N2503060 Nearly all the time while John looked on at this bewildering scene , Hugh kept near him ; and though he was the loudest , wildest , most destructive villain there , he saved his old master 's bones a score of times . 
Nay , even when Mr. Tappertit , excited by liquor , came up , and in assertion of his prerogative politely kicked John Willet on the shins , Hugh bade him return the compliment ; and if old John had had sufficient presence of mind to understand this whispered direction , and to profit by it , he might no doubt , under Hugh 's protection , have done so with impunity . 
These murmurs increasing , and attaining a very high pitch , Hugh , and some of those who yet lingered in the bar , and who plainly were the leaders of the troop , took counsel together apart as to what was to be done with John , to keep him quiet until their Chigwell work was over . 
said Hugh , striding up to him : `` We 're going to tie you , hand and foot , but otherwise you wo n't be hurt . 
roared Hugh , impressing the assurance upon him by means of a heavy blow on the back . 
A glass of liquor being passed forward , Hugh poured the contents down old John 's throat . 
Mr. Willet feebly smacked his lips , thrust his hand into his pocket , and inquired what was to pay ; adding , as he looked vacantly round , that he believed there was a trifle of broken glass -- `` He 's out of his senses for the time , it 's my belief , '' said Hugh , after shaking him , without any visible effect upon his system , until his keys rattled in his pocket . 
cried Hugh , stamping his foot upon the ground . 
cried Hugh , with another impatient stamp of his foot . 
Hugh demanded . 
cried Hugh . 
Hugh made no answer , but snatching the rope from his companion 's hand , proceeded to bind old John himself ; but his very first move was so bungling and unskilful , that Mr. Dennis entreated , almost with tears in his eyes , that he might be permitted to perform the duty . 
Hugh consenting , he achieved it in a twinkling . 
he said , looking mournfully at John Willet , who displayed no more emotion in his bonds than he had shown out of them . 
Hugh , inferring what his companion meant , rather from his gestures than his technical mode of expressing himself -LRB- to which , as he was ignorant of his calling , he wanted the clue -RRB- , rejected this proposition for the second time , and gave the word `` Forward ! '' 
Hugh lingered behind for a few moments to stimulate himself with more drink , and to set all the taps running , a few of which had accidentally been spared ; then glancing round the despoiled and plundered room , through whose shattered window the rioters had thrust the Maypole itself , -- for even that had been sawn down , -- lighted a torch ; clapped the mute and motionless John Willet on the back ; and waving it above his head , and uttering a fierce shout , hastened after his companions . 
Amidst the clattering of heavy blows , the rattling of broken glass , the cries and execrations of the mob , and all the din and turmoil of the scene , Hugh and his friends kept together at the turret door where Mr. Haredale had last admitted him and old John Willet ; and spent their united force on that . 
No one could say that this was true or false , in such an uproar ; but where was Hugh ? 
Who among them had seen him , since the forcing of the doors ? 
Where was Hugh ? 
he hoarsely cried , appearing from the darkness ; out of breath , and blackened with the smoke . 
With that he disappeared again , -- contrary to his wont , for he was always first to advance , and last to go away , -- leaving them to follow homewards as they would . 
He would have known that without Hugh 's telling him . 
And what a precious thing it was to know she lived so happily , and heard with so much pride -LRB- he pictured to himself her look when they told her -RRB- that he was in such high esteem : bold among the boldest , and trusted before them all . 
His comrade Grip , the partner of his watch , though fond of basking in the sunshine , preferred to-day to walk about the stable ; having a great deal to do in the way of scattering the straw , hiding under it such small articles as had been casually left about , and haunting Hugh 's bed , to which he seemed to have taken a particular attachment . 
Grip , after working in secret all the afternoon , and with redoubled vigour while everybody 's attention was distracted , had plucked away the straw from Hugh 's bed , and turned up the loose ground with his iron bill . 
How long they had been talking there , he could not tell , for he had fallen into an unconsciousness of his real position , and when the footsteps ceased , was answering aloud some question which seemed to have been put to him by Hugh in the stable , though of the fancied purport , either of question or reply , notwithstanding that he awoke with the latter on his lips , he had no recollection whatever . 
The first words that reached his ears , were these : `` Why is he brought here then , if he has to be taken away again , so soon ? '' 
How often and how eagerly he listened for the voice of Hugh ! 
Was Hugh a prisoner too ? 
One of them , close before him , smarting under a blow upon the temple , levelled his musket , but the officer struck it upwards with his sword , and ordered him on peril of his life to desist . 
This was the last thing he saw with any distinctness , for directly afterwards he was tossed about , and beaten to and fro , as though in a tempestuous sea . 
But go where he would , there were the same guards about him . 
Twice or thrice he was thrown down , and so were they ; but even then , he could not elude their vigilance for a moment . 
They were up again , and had closed about him , before he , with his wrists so tightly bound , could scramble to his feet . 
Fenced in , thus , he felt himself hoisted to the top of a low flight of steps , and then for a moment he caught a glimpse of the fighting in the crowd , and of a few red coats sprinkled together , here and there , struggling to rejoin their fellows . 
Next moment , everything was dark and gloomy , and he was standing in the prison lobby ; the centre of a group of men . 
Stumbling on as well as he could , beneath the unusual burden of these fetters , he was conducted to a strong stone cell , where , fastening the door with locks , and bolts , and chains , they left him , well secured ; having first , unseen by him , thrust in Grip , who , with his head drooping and his deep black plumes rough and rumpled , appeared to comprehend and to partake , his master 's fallen fortunes N2503065 It is necessary at this juncture to return to Hugh , who , having , as we have seen , called to the rioters to disperse from about the Warren , and meet again as usual , glided back into the darkness from which he had emerged , and reappeared no more that night . 
The former assumed the command of the party , for he challenged Hugh as he advanced towards them ; and when he did so , those who were resting on the ground about the carriage rose to their feet and clustered round him . 
`` Right enough , '' replied Hugh , in the same tone . 
`` Clear enough before our men , I take it , '' said Hugh . 
He selected the largest , and putting it to his mouth , sent the wine gurgling down his throat . 
Having emptied it , he threw it down , and stretched out his hand for another , which he emptied likewise , at a draught . 
Another was given him , and this he half emptied too . 
Reserving what remained , to finish with , he asked : `` Have you got anything to eat , any of you ? 
cried Hugh , seating himself on the pathway . 
Entering into his boisterous humour , for they all had drunk deeply and were as wild as he , they crowded about him , while two of their number who had torches , held them up , one on either side of him , that his banquet might not be despatched in the dark . 
Mr. Dennis , having by this time succeeded in extricating from his hat a great mass of pasty , which had been wedged in so tightly that it was not easily got out , put it before him ; and Hugh , having borrowed a notched and jagged knife from one of the company , fell to work upon it vigorously . 
Hugh looked at him , and at the blackened faces by which he was surrounded , and , stopping for a moment to flourish his knife above his head , answered with a roar of laughter . 
retorted Hugh . 
Knowing , even in the height of his frenzy , that they incurred great danger by lingering so near the scene of the late outrages , Hugh made an end of his meal without more remonstrance , and rising , stepped up to Mr. Tappertit and smote him on the back . 
The little hand seconded this admonition by thrusting Hugh 's great head away with all its force , and drawing up the blind , amidst his noisy laughter , and vows that he must have another look , for the last glimpse of that sweet face had provoked him past all bearing . 
However , as the suppressed impatience of the party now broke out into open murmurs , he abandoned this design , and taking his seat upon the bar , contented himself with tapping at the front windows of the carriage , and trying to steal a glance inside ; Mr. Tappertit , mounting the steps and hanging on by the door , issued his directions to the driver with a commanding voice and attitude ; the rest got up behind , or ran by the side of the carriage , as they could ; some , in imitation of Hugh , endeavoured to see the face he had praised so highly , and were reminded of their impertinence by hints from the cudgel of Mr. Tappertit . 
Nor was this the worst , for the carriage stopping in a lonely spot , Hugh suddenly opened the door , jumped in , and took his seat between them . 
He put his arm about the neck of each , and swore to stifle them with kisses if they were not as silent as the grave . 
`` I come here to keep you quiet , '' he said , `` and that 's the means I shall take . 
They shrunk from his touch , each into the farthest corner of the carriage ; but shrink as Dolly would , his arm encircled her waist , and held her fast . 
She neither cried nor spoke , for terror and disgust deprived her of the power ; but she plucked at his hand as though she would die in the effort to disengage herself ; and crouching on the ground , with her head averted and held down , repelled him with a strength she wondered at as much as he . 
`` Lift this one out , '' said Hugh to the man who opened the door , as he took Miss Haredale 's hand , and felt how heavily it fell . 
asked Hugh . 
`` Look ye , pretty bird , '' said Hugh , drawing Dolly towards him . 
Thrusting his face away with all her force , and holding down her head , Dolly submitted to be carried out of the chaise , and borne after Miss Haredale into a miserable cottage , where Hugh , after hugging her to his breast , set her gently down upon the floor . 
Not Hugh . 
And here he exchanged a grin with Hugh , who removed his eyes from Dolly for the purpose . 
We all consider that , Miss. '' He shook his head waggishly , leered at Hugh again , and laughed very much , as if he had said a noble thing , and rather thought he was coming out . 
I tell you what though , brother , '' said Dennis , cocking his hat for the convenience of scratching his head , and looking gravely at Hugh , `` it 's worthy of notice , as a proof of the amazing equalness and dignity of our law , that it do n't make no distinction between men and women . 
This subject , perhaps from being of too exclusive and professional a nature , failed to interest Hugh as much as his friend had anticipated . 
But he had no time to pursue it , for at this crisis Mr. Tappertit entered precipitately ; at sight of whom Dolly uttered a scream of joy , and fairly threw herself into his arms . 
Simon Tappertit , who had at first implicitly believed that the locksmith 's daughter , unable any longer to suppress her secret passion for himself , was about to give it full vent in its intensity , and to declare that she was his for ever , looked extremely foolish when she said these words ; -- the more so , as they were received by Hugh and Dennis with a loud laugh , which made her draw back , and regard him with a fixed and earnest look . 
Hugh had never admired her half so much as at that moment . 
N2503067 Hugh had her in his arms directly . 
cried Hugh . 
`` Nothing , captain , nothing , '' Hugh rejoined ; and as he spoke , and clapped his hand upon the shoulder of the little man , he laughed again , for some unknown reason , with tenfold violence . 
With this last caution , which was true enough , he turned to the door , followed by Hugh and Dennis . 
said Hugh , hastily . 
demanded Hugh . 
Hugh looked for a moment , as though he would have made some further inquiry into this incoherent recollection ; but Simon Tappertit , who had been meditating deeply , gave his thoughts a new direction . 
`` Hugh ! '' 
As to you , old boy '' -- he turned to Hugh -- `` you shall have Miggs -LRB- her that I promised you , you know -RRB- within three days . 
Hugh thanked him heartily ; and as he did so , his laughing fit returned with such violence that he was obliged to hold his side with one hand , and to lean with the other on the shoulder of his small captain , without whose support he would certainly have rolled upon the ground . 
Notwithstanding the lassitude and fatigue which oppressed him now , in common with his two companions , and indeed with all who had taken an active share in that night 's work , Hugh 's boisterous merriment broke out afresh whenever he looked at Simon Tappertit , and vented itself -- much to that gentleman 's indignation -- in such shouts of laughter as bade fair to bring the watch upon them , and involve them in a skirmish , to which in their present worn-out condition they might prove by no means equal . 
Not abating one jot of his noisy mirth for these remonstrances , Hugh reeled along between them , having an arm of each , until they hove in sight of the Boot , and were within a field or two of that convenient tavern . 
He happened by great good luck to have roared and shouted himself into silence by this time . 
said Hugh . 
The inmates had fled or been taken into custody , he could not say which . 
He had prevented a great many people from approaching nearer , and he believed they had gone to the markets and such places to pass the night . 
He had seen the distant fires , but they were all out now . 
He had heard the people who passed and repassed , speaking of them too , and could report that the prevailing opinion was one of apprehension and dismay . 
He had not heard a word of Barnaby -- did n't even know his name -- but it had been said in his hearing that some man had been taken and carried off to Newgate . 
Hugh , deeming it possible that Barnaby was in the hands of the soldiers , and at that moment under detention at the Boot , was for advancing stealthily , and firing the house ; but his companions , who objected to such rash measures unless they had a crowd at their backs , represented that if Barnaby were taken he had assuredly been removed to a stronger prison : they would never have dreamed of keeping him all night in a place so weak and open to attack . 
Yielding to this reasoning , and to their persuasions , Hugh consented to turn back , and to repair to Fleet Market ; for which place , it seemed , a few of their boldest associates had shaped their course , on receiving the same intelligence . 
Hugh and his two friends being known to most of these men , were received with signal marks of approbation , and inducted into the most honourable seats . 
`` The soldiers have taken possession of the Boot , I hear , '' said Hugh . 
Several cried that they did ; but the majority of the company having been engaged in the assault upon the Warren , and all present having been concerned in one or other of the night 's expeditions , it proved that they knew no more than Hugh himself ; having been merely warned by each other , or by the scout , and knowing nothing of their own knowledge . 
`` We left a man on guard there to-day , '' said Hugh , looking round him , `` who is not here . 
They shook their heads , and murmured an answer in the negative , as each man looked round and appealed to his fellow ; when a noise was heard without , and a man was heard to say that he wanted Hugh -- that he must see Hugh . 
`` He is but one man , '' cried Hugh to those who kept the door ; `` let him come in . '' 
A one-armed man , with his head and face tied up with a bloody cloth as though he had been severely beaten , his clothes torn , and his remaining hand grasping a thick stick , rushed in among them , and panting for breath , demanded which was Hugh . 
`` Here he is , '' replied the person he inquired for . 
`` I am Hugh . 
asked Hugh , hastily . 
I was one of the few who tried to rescue him , and he called to me , and told me to tell Hugh where he was . 
He pointed to his dress , and to his bandaged head , and still panting for breath , glanced round the room ; then faced towards Hugh again . 
`` I know you by sight , '' he said , `` for I was in the crowd on Friday , and on Saturday , and yesterday , but I did n't know your name . 
Again he glanced inquisitively round the room -- or seemed to do so , for his face was nearly hidden by the bandage -- and again facing sharply towards Hugh , grasped his stick as if he half expected to be set upon , and stood on the defensive . 
If he had any such apprehension , however , he was speedily re-assured by the demeanour of all present . 
He was lost in the news he brought . 
But Hugh and Dennis stood with their backs against it , and kept them back , until the clamour had so far subsided that their voices could be heard , when they called to them together that to go now , in broad day , would be madness ; and that if they waited until night and arranged a plan of attack , they might release , not only their own companions , but all the prisoners , and burn down the jail . 
`` Not that jail alone , '' cried Hugh , `` but every jail in London . 
he cried , catching at the hangman 's hand . 
When all was ready , Hugh and Dennis , with Simon Tappertit between them , led the way . 
`` Beat at the door , '' cried Hugh to the men about him . 
`` Ask no questions of us , old man , '' retorted Hugh , waving his comrades to be silent , `` but come down , and bring the tools of your trade . 
cried Hugh . 
`` I know nothing of her , '' Hugh rejoined . 
cried the locksmith , in a voice that made them falter -- presenting , as he spoke , a gun . 
Snatching a torch from one who stood near him , Hugh was stepping forward with an oath , when he was arrested by a shrill and piercing shriek , and , looking upward , saw a fluttering garment on the house-top . 
But Gabriel was quite undaunted , and looked from Hugh and Dennis , who held him by either arm , to Simon Tappertit , who confronted him . 
`` Do n't be a fool , master , '' whispered Hugh , seizing Varden roughly by the shoulder ; `` but do as you 're bid . 
They cried again to have him brought out ; and it would have gone hard with the honest locksmith , but that Hugh reminded them , in answer , that they wanted his services , and must have them . 
`` So , tell him what we want , '' he said to Simon Tappertit , `` and quickly . 
`` We 'll see that , '' cried Hugh , interposing , as the indignation of the crowd again burst forth . 
`` Are you , '' said Hugh at length , `` Mr. Akerman , the head jailer here ? '' 
But Hugh , without minding him , took his answer from the man himself . 
`` Yes , '' he said . 
He glanced downward , as he spoke , into the jail : and the feeling that he could see into the different yards , and that he overlooked everything which was hidden from their view by the rugged walls , so lashed and goaded the mob , that they howled like wolves . 
`` Deliver up our friends , '' said Hugh , `` and you may keep the rest . '' 
`` If you do n't throw the doors open , we shall break 'em down , '' said Hugh ; `` for we will have the rioters out . '' 
He made as though he would retire when he had said these words , but he was checked by the voice of the locksmith . 
Hugh replied . 
`` We know it very well , '' he answered , `` for what else did we bring him here ? 
The mob replied to him with a loud Hurrah ! 
they cried to Hugh -- struggling , as they spoke , to force a passage backward through the crowd . 
Hugh leapt upon the blazing heap , and scattering a train of sparks into the air , and making the dark lobby glitter with those that hung upon his dress , dashed into the jail . 
cried Hugh , who was the first to look into the dusky passage : `` Dennis before us ! 
echoed Hugh . 
cried Hugh . 
`` Brother , '' said the hangman in a low voice , as he stooped under pretence of doing what Hugh desired , but only looked up in his face , `` ca n't you leave these here four men to me , if I 've the whim ? 
`` Pull the bars down , or stand out of the way , '' was Hugh 's reply . 
With that , he shook his likeness at Hugh , and giving him a grin , compared with which his usual smile was amiable , disappeared , and shut the door . 
Hugh paused no longer , but goaded alike by the cries of the convicts , and by the impatience of the crowd , warned the man immediately behind him -- the way was only wide enough for one abreast -- to stand back , and wielded a sledge hammer with such strength , that after a few blows the iron bent and broke , and gave them free admittance . 
This man was Hugh ; and in every part of the riot , he was seen . 
He headed two attacks upon the Bank , helped to break open the Toll-houses on Blackfriars Bridge , and cast the money into the street : fired two of the prisons with his own hand : was here , and there , and everywhere -- always foremost -- always active -- striking at the soldiers , cheering on the crowd , making his horse 's iron music heard through all the yell and uproar : but never hurt or stopped . 
Turn him at one place , and he made a new struggle in another ; force him to retreat at this point , and he advanced on that , directly . 
Driven from Holborn for the twentieth time , he rode at the head of a great crowd straight upon Saint Paul 's , attacked a guard of soldiers who kept watch over a body of prisoners within the iron railings , forced them to retreat , rescued the men they had in custody , and with this accession to his party , came back again , mad with liquor and excitement , and hallooing them on like a demon . 
The vintner and Mr. Haredale , unable to sit quietly listening to the terrible noise without seeing what went on , had climbed to the roof of the house ; and hiding behind a stack of chimneys , were looking cautiously down into the street , almost hoping that after so many repulses the rioters would be foiled , when a great shout proclaimed that a party were coming round the other way ; and the dismal jingling of those accursed fetters warned them next moment that they too were led by Hugh . 
But another fierce cry from below , and a general upturning of the faces of the crowd , apprised them that they were discovered , and even that Mr. Haredale was recognised ; for Hugh , seeing him plainly in the bright glare of the flames , which in that part made it as light as day , called to him by his name , and swore to have his life . 
he muttered , as he turned towards Hugh and faced him without any further effort at concealment : `` This roof is high , and if we grapple , we will die together ! '' 
Barnaby , heavily ironed as he was , if he had obeyed his first impulse , or if he had been alone , would have made his way back to the side of Hugh , who to his clouded intellect now shone forth with the new lustre of being his preserver and truest friend . 
At last he withdrew ; and as he knew by this time that the soldiers were firing , and many people must have been killed , he went down into Holborn , where he heard the great crowd was , to try if he could find Hugh , and persuade him to avoid the danger , and return with him . 
But there , in the midst , towering above them all , close before the house they were attacking now , was Hugh on horseback , calling to the rest ! 
Sickened by the sights surrounding him on every side , and by the heat and roar , and crash , he forced his way among the crowd -LRB- where many recognised him , and with shouts pressed back to let him pass -RRB- , and in time was nearly up with Hugh , who was savagely threatening some one , but whom , or what he said he could not , in the great confusion , understand . 
At that moment the crowd forced their way into the house , and Hugh -- it was impossible to see by what means , in such a concourse -- fell headlong down . 
It was well he made him hear his voice , or Hugh , with his uplifted axe , would have cleft his skull in twain . 
he cried , reeling back , and looking wildly round . 
As he spoke , he took the horse 's bridle in his hand , turned him , and dragged Hugh several paces . 
said Hugh , coming to a stop , and checking Barnaby with his strong arm . 
He stopped at about half-a-mile from the shed where his father lay , and with some difficulty making Hugh sensible that he must dismount , sunk the horse 's furniture in a pool of stagnant water , and turned the animal loose . 
That done , he supported his companion as well as he could , and led him slowly forward . 
After calling to him twice or thrice that there was nothing to fear , but without effect , he suffered Hugh to sink upon the ground , and followed , to bring him back . 
He continued to creep away , until Barnaby was close upon him ; then turned , and said in a terrible , though suppressed voice : `` Let me go . 
`` Hugh -- Hugh . 
Only Hugh . 
You know him . 
He will not harm you . 
Why , you 're afraid of Hugh ! 
Afraid of gruff , old , noisy Hugh ! '' 
`` What man is he , I ask you , '' he rejoined so fiercely , that Barnaby stopped in his laugh , and shrinking back , surveyed him with a look of terrified amazement . 
This is Hugh -- brave Hugh , who broke into that ugly jail , and set us free . 
You like him now , do you ? 
You like him now ! '' 
`` Why does he lie upon the ground ? '' 
`` He has had a fall , and has been drinking . 
The fields and trees go round , and round , and round , with him , and the ground heaves under his feet . 
You know him ? 
Finding that nothing would rouse Hugh now , or make him sensible for a moment , Barnaby dragged him along the grass , and laid him on a little heap of refuse hay and straw which had been his own bed ; first having brought some water from a running stream hard by , and washed his wound , and laved his hands and face . 
And now he began to think how happy they would be -- his father , mother , he , and Hugh -- if they rambled away together , and lived in some lonely place , where there were none of these troubles ; and that perhaps the blind man , who had talked so wisely about gold , and told him of the great secrets he knew , could teach them how to live without being pinched and griped by want . 
He was speedily dressed ; and , as well disguised as he could be , with a lighter heart he then set off upon his second journey ; leaving Hugh , who was still in a drunken stupor , stretched upon the ground within the shed , and his father walking to and fro before it . 
He walked to and fro , with little rest , all day , revolving these things in his mind ; and still Hugh lay , unconscious , in the shed . 
The murderer advanced to meet them , and bidding his son go on and speak to Hugh , who had just then staggered to his feet , took his place at the blind man 's elbow , and slowly followed , towards the shed . 
There was good work last night -- gay work -- profitable work '' -- he added , rattling the money in his pockets . 
With such vociferations , and with a boisterous manner which bespoke his perfect abandonment to the general licence and disorder , he groped his way towards the shed , where Hugh and Barnaby were sitting on the ground , and entered . 
he cried , handing his flask to Hugh . 
Exhausted , unwashed , unshorn ; begrimed with smoke and dust ; his hair clotted with blood ; his voice quite gone , so that he spoke in whispers ; his skin parched up by fever ; his whole body bruised , and cut , and beaten about ; Hugh still took the flask , and raised it to his lips . 
He was in the act of drinking , when the front of the shed was suddenly darkened , and Dennis stood before them . 
`` No offence , no offence , '' said that personage in a conciliatory tone , as Hugh stopped in his draught , and eyed him , with no pleasant look , from head to foot . 
Notwithstanding that he spoke in this very friendly and confident manner , he seemed to have considerable hesitation about entering , and remained outside the roof . 
He was rather better dressed than usual ; wearing the same suit of thread-bare black , it is true , but having round his neck an unwhole-some-looking cravat of a yellowish white ; and on his hands great leather gloves , such as a gardener might wear in following his trade . 
His shoes were newly greased , and ornamented with a pair of rusty iron buckles ; the packthread at his knees had been renewed ; and where he wanted buttons , he wore pins . 
Altogether , he had something the look of a tipstaff , or a bailiff 's follower , desperately faded , but who had a notion of keeping up the appearance of a professional character , and making the best of the worst means . 
`` Not snug enough to prevent your finding us , it seems , '' Hugh answered , sulkily . 
answered Hugh . 
said Dennis , gently checking Hugh 's uplifted hand , which looked threatening . 
Hugh told him , with an oath , that he did . 
`` Yes , that 's mine , '' said Hugh , in the same sullen manner as before ; `` it might have hurt you , if you had come in its way once or twice last night . 
Hugh tossed it towards him . 
As he raised it to his lips , Barnaby jumped up , and motioning them to be silent , looked eagerly out . 
said Dennis , glancing at Hugh and dropping the flask , but still holding the axe in his hand . 
`` Hugh ! '' 
cried the hangman , raising his voice to its highest pitch , and laying hold of him and Hugh . 
-- I 'm sorry for it , brother , '' he added , in a tone of resignation , addressing himself to Hugh ; `` but you 've brought it on yourself ; you forced me to do it ; you would n't respect the soundest constitootional principles , you know ; you went and wiolated the wery frame-work of society . 
They were not all three carried off together , but in two parties ; Barnaby and his father , going by one road in the centre of a body of foot ; and Hugh , fast bound upon a horse , and strongly guarded by a troop of cavalry , being taken by another . 
Hugh only observed that Barnaby walked with a drooping head among his guard , and , without raising his eyes , that he tried to wave his fettered hand when he passed . 
It was more , perhaps , with an eye to the danger which lurked in this quarter , than from his abstract love of conversation with the sex , that the hangman , quickening his steps , now hastened into their society ; cursing the amorous natures of Hugh and Mr. Tappertit with great heartiness , at every step he took . 
Miss Miggs replied -LRB- still being profoundly deaf -RRB- that if Miss Haredale stood in the way at all , he might make himself quite easy on that score ; as she had gathered , from what passed between Hugh and Mr. Tappertit when they were last there , that she was to be removed alone -LRB- not by them , by somebody else -RRB- , to-morrow night . 
It was sufficiently evident , both to Emma and to the locksmith 's poor little daughter herself , that she , Dolly , was the great object of attraction ; and that so soon as they should have leisure to indulge in the softer passion , Hugh and Mr. Tappertit would certainly fall to blows for her sake : in which latter case , it was not very difficult to foresee whose prize she would become . 
N2503080 The sleeping man was Hugh ; and perhaps it was not unnatural for Dennis to feel in a state of very uncomfortable suspense , and to wish with his whole soul that he might never wake again . 
Tired of standing , he crouched down in his corner after some time , and rested on the cold pavement ; but although Hugh 's breathing still proclaimed that he was sleeping soundly , he could not trust him out of his sight for an instant . 
He was so afraid of him , and of some sudden onslaught , that he was not content to see his closed eyes through the chair-back , but every now and then , rose stealthily to his feet , and peered at him with outstretched neck , to assure himself that he really was still asleep , and was not about to spring upon him when he was off his guard . 
He slept so long and so soundly , that Mr. Dennis began to think he might sleep on until the turnkey visited them . 
Then , just as it seemed that he was about to fall heavily to the ground from his narrow bed , Hugh 's eyes opened . 
He whined out the last three words in such piteous accents , that Hugh , who had dragged away the chair , and aimed a blow at him with it , checked himself , and bade him get up . 
cried Hugh , clutching him by the collar with both hands , and shaking him as though he were bent on stopping his breath by that means . 
Hugh made him no answer , but shaking him in his strong gripe until his teeth chattered in his head , cast him down upon the floor , and flung himself on the bench again . 
`` If it was n't for the comfort it is to me , to see you here , '' he muttered , `` I 'd have crushed your head against it ; I would . '' 
asked Hugh , raising his head , with such a fierce expression , that the other durst not answer him just then . 
His warming on this topic , which to one unacquainted with his pursuits and tastes appeared like courage ; together with his artful suppression of his own secret hopes , and mention of himself as being in the same condition with Hugh ; did more to soothe that ruffian than the most elaborate arguments could have done , or the most abject submission . 
He rested his arms upon his knees , and stooping forward , looked from beneath his shaggy hair at Dennis , with something of a smile upon his face . 
`` Lookee , rascal , '' said Hugh , contracting his brows , `` I 'm not altogether such a shallow blade but I know you expected to get something by it , or you would not have done it . 
Finishing this speech with a growl like the yawn of a wild beast , he stretched himself upon the bench again , and closed his eyes once more . 
After looking at him in silence for some moments , Dennis , who was greatly relieved to find him in this mood , drew the chair towards his rough couch and sat down near him -- taking the precaution , however , to keep out of the range of his brawny arm . 
`` Ay , '' said Hugh , coiling himself into a new position . 
cried Hugh , starting up and resting on his hands . 
laughed Hugh , waving one arm above his head . 
`` Brother , '' cried the hangman , whose features underwent a sudden change , `` you do n't mean to say -- '' `` I mean to say '' Hugh interposed , `` that they hung her up at Tyburn . 
`` If you 're a wise man , '' growled Hugh , raising his head to look at him with a savage frown , `` you 'll hold your tongue . 
Sir John had expected -- had been quite certain from the first -- that he would say he had come from Hugh , and was prepared to meet him on that point . 
`` When , '' pursued the locksmith , quite unabashed and wholly regardless of these interruptions , `` when he was taken to the jail , he found that his fellow-prisoner , in the same room , was a young man , Hugh by name , a leader in the riots , who had been betrayed and given up by himself . 
From something which fell from this unhappy creature in the course of the angry words they had at meeting , he discovered that his mother had suffered the death to which they both are now condemned . 
Hear the few words I have to add , and do not hope to deceive me ; for though I am a plain man of humble station , and you are a gentleman of rank and learning , the truth raises me to your level , and by its power I know that you anticipate the disclosure with which I am about to end , and that you believe this doomed man , Hugh , to be your son . '' 
Dennis and Hugh were in the court-yard . 
Hugh came forth from his cell as they did , stretching himself as though he had been sleeping . 
Hugh strode up and down , glancing fiercely every now and then at the bright summer sky , and looking round , when he had done so , at the walls . 
`` Better be mad than sane , here , '' said Hugh . 
`` You ought to be the best , instead of the worst , '' said Hugh , stopping before him . 
said Hugh , as he thrust back his matted hair to get a better view of his late associate . 
`` He 'll soon have his longing , '' said Hugh , resuming his walk . 
Although one of these men displayed , in his speech and bearing , the most reckless hardihood ; and the other , in his every word and action , testified such an extreme of abject cowardice that it was humiliating to see him ; it would be difficult to say which of them would most have repelled and shocked an observer . 
Hugh 's was the dogged desperation of a savage at the stake ; the hangman was reduced to a condition little better , if any , than that of a hound with the halter round his neck . 
Do n't let him hear us '' -LRB- meaning Hugh -RRB- ; `` he 's so desperate . '' 
cried Hugh again , as they bore him away -- `` Ha ha ha ! 
Barnaby glanced once more through the grate into the empty yard ; and then watched Hugh as he strode to the steps leading to his sleeping-cell . 
He heard him shout , and burst into a roar of laughter , and saw him flourish his hat . 
Then he turned away himself , like one who walked in his sleep ; and , without any sense of fear or sorrow , lay down on his pallet , listening for the clock to strike again . 
No words or even voices could be distinguished in this clamour , nor did they speak much to each other ; though such as were better informed upon the topic than the rest , would tell their neighbours , perhaps , that they might know the hangman when he came out , by his being the shorter one : and that the man who was to suffer with him was named Hugh : and that it was Barnaby Rudge who would be hanged in Bloomsbury Square . 
cried Hugh , undaunted by the sound . 
The ordinary coming up at this moment , reproved him for his indecent mirth , and advised him to alter his demeanour . 
said Hugh . 
never tell me , '' he cried , as the other would have spoken , `` for all your sad look and your solemn air , you think little enough of it ! 
I am , '' rejoined Hugh sternly . 
`` Bless you , '' cried Barnaby , stepping lightly towards him , `` I 'm not frightened , Hugh . 
Hugh gazed for a moment at his face , on which there was a strange , unearthly smile ; and at his eye , which sparkled brightly ; and interposing between him and the ordinary , gruffly whispered to the latter : `` I would n't say much to him , master , if I was you . 
He may spoil your appetite for breakfast , though you are used to it . '' 
He was the only one of the three , who had washed or trimmed himself that morning . 
He still wore the broken peacock 's feathers in his hat ; and all his usual scraps of finery were carefully disposed about his person . 
His kindling eye , his firm step , his proud and resolute bearing , might have graced some lofty act of heroism ; some voluntary sacrifice , born of a noble cause and pure enthusiasm ; rather than that felon 's death . 
Hugh looked about him , nodded gloomily to some person in authority , who indicated with his hand in what direction he was to proceed ; and clapping Barnaby on the shoulder , passed out with the gait of a lion . 
Hugh walked straight up to them , and set his foot upon it with a sound as though it had been struck by a heavy weapon . 
Then , with folded arms , he stood to have his irons knocked off : scowling haughtily round , as those who were present eyed him narrowly and whispered to each other . 
It took so much time to drag Dennis in , that this ceremony was over with Hugh , and nearly over with Barnaby , before he appeared . 
They took him to the anvil : but even then he could be heard above the clinking of the smith 's hammers , and the hoarse raging of the crowd , crying that he knew of Hugh 's birth -- that his father was living , and was a gentleman of influence and rank -- that he had family secrets in his possession -- that he could tell nothing unless they gave him time , but must die with them on his mind ; and he continued to rave in this sort until his voice failed him , and he sank down a mere heap of clothes between the two attendants . 
They told Hugh this , and asked if he had anything to say . 
he cried . 
-- Yes , '' he added , as his eye fell upon Barnaby , `` I have a word to say , too . 
There was , for the moment , something kind , and even tender , struggling in his fierce aspect , as he wrung his poor companion by the hand . 
`` I 'll say this , '' he cried , looking firmly round , `` that if I had ten lives to lose , and the loss of each would give me ten times the agony of the hardest death , I 'd lay them all down -- ay I would , though you gentlemen may not believe it -- to save this one . 
This one , '' he added , wringing his hand again , `` that will be lost through me . '' 
-- Hugh , we shall know what makes the stars shine , now ! '' 
`` I took him from her in a reckless mood , and did n't think what harm would come of it , '' said Hugh , laying his hand upon his head , and speaking in a lower voice . 
`` I ask her pardon , and his . 
-- Look here , '' he added roughly , in his former tone . 
They murmured `` Yes , '' and seemed to wonder why he asked . 
cried Hugh , raising his right arm aloft , and looking upward like a savage prophet whom the near approach of Death had filled with inspiration , `` where are they ! 
N2503084 His arm fell downward by his side ; he turned ; and moved towards them with a steady step : the man he had been before . 
Hugh motioned Barnaby not to come near him -LRB- though without looking in the direction where he stood -RRB- and answered , `` There is nothing more . '' 
`` -- Unless , '' said Hugh , glancing hurriedly back , -- `` unless some person has a fancy for a dog ; and not then , unless he means to use him well . 
-- You wonder that I think about a dog just now , '' he added , with a kind of laugh . 
He spoke no more , but moved onward in his place , with a careless air , though listening at the same time to the Service for the Dead , with something between sullen attention , and quickened curiosity . 
As soon as he had passed the door , his miserable associate was carried out ; and the crowd beheld the rest . 
It was remarkable that although he had that dim sense of the past , he sought out Hugh 's dog , and took him under his care ; and that he never could be tempted into London . 
