Only this morning -LRB- May twenty-first , eighteen hundred and fifty -RRB- , came my lady 's nephew , Mr. Franklin Blake , and held a short conversation with me , as follows : -- `` Betteredge , '' says Mr. Franklin , `` I have been to the lawyer 's about some family matters ; and , among other things , we have been talking of the loss of the Indian Diamond , in my aunt 's house in Yorkshire , two years since . 
Not perceiving his drift yet , and thinking it always desirable for the sake of peace and quietness to be on the lawyer 's side , I said I thought so too . 
Mr. Franklin went on . 
`` In this matter of the Diamond , '' he said , `` the characters of innocent people have suffered under suspicion already -- as you know . 
`` We have certain events to relate , '' Mr. Franklin proceeded ; `` and we have certain persons concerned in those events who are capable of relating them . 
Mr. Franklin , I imagine , must have seen my private sentiments in my face . 
He declined to believe in my modesty ; and he insisted on giving my abilities a fair chance . 
Two hours have passed since Mr. Franklin left me . 
As soon as his back was turned , I went to my writing-desk to start the story . 
Penelope 's notion is that I should set down what happened , regularly day by day , beginning with the day when we got the news that Mr. Franklin Blake was expected on a visit to the house . 
Franklin Blake has come back from abroad . 
He has been staying with his father in London , and he is coming to us to-morrow to stop till next month , and keep Rachel 's birthday . '' 
I had not seen Mr. Franklin since he was a boy , living along with us in this house . 
He was , out of all sight -LRB- as I remembered him -RRB- , the nicest boy that ever spun a top or broke a window . 
Miss Rachel , who was present , and to whom I made that remark , observed , in return , that she remembered him as the most atrocious tyrant that ever tortured a doll , and the hardest driver of an exhausted little girl in string harness that England could produce . 
`` I burn with indignation , and I ache with fatigue , '' was the way Miss Rachel summed it up , `` when I think of Franklin Blake . '' 
Hearing what I now tell you , you will naturally ask how it was that Mr. Franklin should have passed all the years , from the time when he was a boy to the time when he was a man , out of his own country . 
I answer , because his father had the misfortune to be next heir to a Dukedom , and not to be able to prove it . 
In two words , this was how the thing happened : My lady 's eldest sister married the celebrated Mr. Blake -- equally famous for his great riches , and his great suit at law . 
How many years he went on worrying the tribunals of his country to turn out the Duke in possession , and to put himself in the Duke 's place -- how many lawyers ' purses he filled to bursting , and how many otherwise harmless people he set by the ears together disputing whether he was right or wrong -- is more by a great deal than I can reckon up . 
His wife died , and two of his three children died , before the tribunals could make up their minds to show him the door and take no more of his money . 
When it was all over , and the Duke in possession was left in possession , Mr. Blake discovered that the only way of being even with his country for the manner in which it had treated him , was not to let his country have the honour of educating his son . 
`` How can I trust my native institutions , '' was the form in which he put it , `` after the way in which my native institutions have behaved to me ? '' 
Add to this , that Mr. Blake disliked all boys , his own included , and you will admit that it could only end in one way . 
Master Franklin was taken from us in England , and was sent to institutions which his father could trust , in that superior country , Germany ; Mr. Blake himself , you will observe , remaining snug in England , to improve his fellow-countrymen in the Parliament House , and to publish a statement on the subject of the Duke in possession , which has remained an unfinished statement from that day to this . 
Neither you nor I need trouble our heads any more about Mr. Blake , senior . 
Leave him to the Dukedom ; and let you and I stick to the Diamond . 
The Diamond takes us back to Mr. Franklin , who was the innocent means of bringing that unlucky jewel into the house . 
The more money he had , the more he wanted : there was a hole in Mr. Franklin 's pocket that nothing would sew up . 
Wherever he went , the lively , easy way of him made him welcome . 
He lived here , there , and everywhere ; his address -LRB- as he used to put it himself -RRB- being , `` Post Office Europe -- to be left till called for . '' 
Twice over , he made up his mind to come back to England and see us ; and twice over -LRB- saving your presence -RRB- , some unmentionable woman stood in the way and stopped him . 
His third attempt succeeded , as you know already from what my lady told me . 
Now you know as much of Mr. Franklin Blake as I did -- before Mr. Franklin Blake came down to our house . 
The Thursday was as fine a summer 's day as ever you saw : and my lady and Miss Rachel -LRB- not expecting Mr. Franklin till dinner-time -RRB- drove out to lunch with some friends in the neighbourhood . 
She wanted to have the three Indian jugglers instantly taken up ; for this reason , namely , that they knew who was coming from London to visit us , and that they meant some mischief to Mr. Franklin Blake . 
Mr. Franklin 's name roused me . 
The moral was , as I thought : First , that the chief juggler had heard Mr. Franklin 's arrival talked of among the servants out-of-doors , and saw his way to making a little money by it . 
Second , that he and his men and boy -LRB- with a view to making the said money -RRB- meant to hang about till they saw my lady drive home , and then to come back , and foretell Mr. Franklin 's arrival by magic . 
`` We 'll ask Mr. Franklin , my dear , '' I said , `` if you can wait till Mr. Franklin comes . '' 
`` What on earth should Mr. Franklin know about it ? '' 
`` Ask him , '' says Penelope . 
`` And see whether he thinks it a laughing matter , too . '' 
I settled it with myself , when she was gone , that I really would ask Mr. Franklin -- mainly to set Penelope 's mind at rest . 
What was said between us , when I did ask him , later on that same day , you will find set out fully in its proper place . 
To my great surprise , Mr. Franklin , like Penelope , took the thing seriously . 
How seriously , you will understand , when I tell you that , in his opinion , `` It '' meant the Moonstone . 
But things must be put down in their places , as things actually happened -- and you must please to jog on a little while longer with me , in expectation of Mr. Franklin Blake 's arrival later in the day . 
Here -- four good hours before we expected him -- was Mr. Franklin Blake ! 
Before I could say a word , I saw Mr. Franklin , a little surprised to all appearance , look up from me to Rosanna . 
Following his lead , I looked at the girl too . 
She was blushing of a deeper red than ever , seemingly at having caught Mr. Franklin 's eye ; and she turned and left us suddenly , in a confusion quite unaccountable to my mind , without either making her curtsy to the gentleman or saying a word to me . 
`` That 's an odd girl , '' says Mr. Franklin . 
I set down here Mr. Franklin 's careless question , and my foolish answer , as a consolation and encouragement to all stupid people -- it being , as I have remarked , a great satisfaction to our inferior fellow-creatures to find that their betters are , on occasions , no brighter than they are . 
Neither Mr. Franklin , with his wonderful foreign training , nor I , with my age , experience , and natural mother-wit , had the ghost of an idea of what Rosanna Spearman 's unaccountable behaviour really meant . 
Mr. Franklin stopped me . 
`` There is one advantage about this horried place , '' he said ; `` we have got it all to ourselves . 
While he was speaking , I was looking at him , and trying to see something of the boy I remembered , in the man before me . 
`` Welcome back to the old place , Mr. Franklin , '' I said . 
`` I have a reason for coming before you expected me , '' answered Mr. Franklin . 
They brought back to my mind , in a flash , the three jugglers , and Penelope 's notion that they meant some mischief to Mr. Franklin Blake . 
`` Tell me about the three Indians you have had at the house to-day , '' says Mr. Franklin , without noticing my question . 
`` I saw Penelope at the house , '' says Mr. Franklin ; `` and Penelope told me . 
`` She would just have suited me , '' says Mr. Franklin . 
I was something dissatisfied with my daughter -- not for letting Mr. Franklin kiss her ; Mr. Franklin was welcome to that -- but for forcing me to tell her foolish story at second hand . 
Mr. Franklin 's merriment all died away as I went on . 
He sat knitting his eyebrows , and twisting his beard . 
When I had done , he repeated after me two of the questions which the chief juggler had put to the boy -- seemingly for the purpose of fixing them well in his mind . 
I suspect , '' says Mr. Franklin , pulling a little sealed paper parcel out of his pocket , `` that ` It ' means this . 
`` The wicked Colonel 's will has left his Diamond as a birthday present to my cousin Rachel , '' says Mr. Franklin . 
If the sea , then oozing in smoothly over the Shivering Sand , had been changed into dry land before my own eyes , I doubt if I could have been more surprised than I was when Mr. Franklin spoke those words . 
Why , I would have laid any bet you like , Mr. Franklin , that your father would n't have touched the Colonel with a pair of tongs ! '' 
I saw he was in earnest , and I told him . 
This was the sum-total of what I had to tell Mr. Franklin . 
I remarked that he listened more and more eagerly the longer I went on . 
Also , that the story of the Colonel being sent away from his sister 's door , on the occasion of his niece 's birthday , seemed to strike Mr. Franklin like a shot that had hit the mark . 
Though he did n't acknowledge it , I saw that I had made him uneasy , plainly enough , in his face . 
`` You have said your say , Betteredge , '' he remarked . 
`` In that case , '' says Mr. Franklin , `` suppose I put you up to my point of view , before we go any further . 
Follow me carefully , Betteredge ; and count me off on your fingers , if it will help you , '' says Mr. Franklin , with a certain pleasure in showing how clear-headed he could be , which reminded me wonderfully of old times when he was a boy . 
It was all very well to say that , but he had frightened me . 
If he was right , here was our quiet English house suddenly invaded by a devilish Indian diamond -- bringing after it a conspiracy of living rogues , set loose on us by the vengeance of a dead man . 
There was our situation , as revealed to me in Mr. Franklin 's last words ! 
Mr. Franklin noticed me , contending with a perturbed stomach , or mind -- which you please ; they mean the same thing -- and , checking himself just as he was starting with his part of the story , said to me sharply , `` What do you want ? '' 
I did n't tell him ; but I 'll tell you , in confidence . 
Keeping my private sentiments to myself , I respectfully requested Mr. Franklin to go on . 
Mr. Franklin replied , `` Do n't fidget , Betteredge , '' and went on . 
Our young gentleman 's first words informed me that his discoveries , concerning the wicked Colonel and the Diamond , had begun with a visit which he had paid -LRB- before he came to us -RRB- to the family lawyer , at Hampstead . 
A chance word dropped by Mr. Franklin , when the two were alone , one day , after dinner , revealed that he had been charged by his father with a birthday present to be taken to Miss Rachel . 
One thing led to another ; and it ended in the lawyer mentioning what the present really was , and how the friendly connexion between the late Colonel , and Mr. Blake , Senior , had taken its rise , The facts here are really so extraordinary , that I doubt if I can trust my own language to do justice to them . 
I prefer trying to report Mr. Franklin 's discoveries , as nearly as may be , in Mr. Franklin 's own words . 
`` You remember the time , Betteredge , '' he said , `` when my father was trying to prove his title to that unlucky Dukedom ? 
says Mr. Franklin . 
It was plain to me from this , that Mr. Franklin thought his father 's notion about the Colonel hasty and wrong . 
`` Let 's finish the story of the Colonel first , '' says Mr. Franklin . 
Mr. Franklin took up the lost thread , and went on . 
`` My father , '' he said , `` got the papers he wanted , and never saw his brother-in-law again from that time . 
`` He not only gave the reason -- he had the reason written in his will , '' said Mr. Franklin . 
`` Not possessing my father 's excellent common sense , '' answered Mr. Franklin , `` I believe the Colonel 's life was threatened , exactly as the Colonel said . 
They were of the slovenly English sort ; and they consequently muddled it all , until Mr. Franklin took them in hand , and pointed out what they ought to see . 
`` Remark , '' says Mr. Franklin , `` that the integrity of the Diamond , as a whole stone , is here artfully made dependent on the preservation from violence of the Colonel 's life . 
`` Nothing of the sort , '' says Mr. Franklin . 
`` A plot organized among the Indians who originally owned the jewel , '' says Mr. Franklin -- `` a plot with some old Hindoo superstition at the bottom of it . 
I saw , now , why the appearance of the three Indian jugglers at our house had presented itself to Mr. Franklin in the light of a circumstance worth noting . 
`` I do n't want to force my opinion on you , '' Mr. Franklin went on . 
Not a word he said escaped me . 
`` I was not very willing , when I discovered the story of the Moonstone , '' said Mr. Franklin , `` to be the means of bringing it here . 
Neither he nor I seemed to fancy dealing with this part of the inquiry . 
says Mr. Franklin , suddenly . 
`` If you have got the value of the stone in your pocket , '' answered Mr. Franklin , `` say so , Betteredge , and in it goes ! '' 
We found a fund of merriment , at the time , in the notion of making away with Miss Rachel 's lawful property , and getting Mr. Blake , as executor , into dreadful trouble -- though where the merriment was , I am quite at a loss to discover now . 
Mr. Franklin was the first to bring the talk back to the talk 's proper purpose . 
He took an envelope out of his pocket , opened it , and handed to me the paper inside . 
`` Betteredge , '' he said , `` we must face the question of the Colonel 's motive in leaving this legacy to his niece , for my aunt 's sake . 
He gave me the extract from the Colonel 's Will . 
I handed the paper back to Mr. Franklin , sorely troubled what to say to him . 
`` Well , '' says Mr. Franklin , `` now you have read the Colonel 's own statement , what do you say ? 
Mr. Franklin sat twisting and turning the extract from the Will in his fingers , as if he expected to squeeze the truth out of it in that manner . 
He altered quite remarkably , at the same time . 
From being brisk and bright , he now became most unaccountably , a slow , solemn , and pondering young man . 
`` Let 's extract the inner meaning of this , '' says Mr. Franklin . 
`` That 's the Subjective view , '' says Mr. Franklin . 
`` I can see , '' says Mr. Franklin , `` that the Colonel 's object may , quite possibly , have been -- not to benefit his niece , whom he had never even seen -- but to prove to his sister that he had died forgiving her , and to prove it very prettily by means of a present made to her child . 
Having brought matters to this pleasant and comforting issue , Mr. Franklin appeared to think that he had completed all that was required of him . 
He laid down flat on his back on the sand , and asked what was to be done next . 
He had been so clever , and clear-headed -LRB- before he began to talk the foreign gibberish -RRB- , and had so completely taken the lead in the business up to the present time , that I was quite unprepared for such a sudden change as he now exhibited in this helpless leaning upon me . 
It was not till later that I learned -- by assistance of Miss Rachel , who was the first to make the discovery -- that these puzzling shifts and transformations in Mr. Franklin were due to the effect on him of his foreign training . 
At the age when we are all of us most apt to take our colouring , in the form of a reflection from the colouring of other people , he had been sent abroad , and had been passed on , from one nation to another , before there was time for any one colouring more than another to settle itself on him firmly . 
As a consequence of this , he had come back with so many different sides to his character , all more or less jarring with each other , that he seemed to pass his life in a state of perpetual contradiction with himself . 
He could be a busy man , and a lazy man ; cloudy in the head , and clear in the head ; a model of determination , and a spectacle of helplessness , all together . 
Mr. Franklin did n't appear to see the force of my question -- not being in a position , at the time , to see anything but the sky over his head . 
`` I do n't want to alarm my aunt without reason , '' he said . 
In one word , I told him : `` Wait . '' 
`` With all my heart , '' says Mr. Franklin . 
says Mr. Franklin . 
The prospect of doing something -- and , what is more , of doing that something on a horse -- brought Mr. Franklin up like lightning from the flat of his back . 
He sprang to his feet , and pulled me up , without ceremony , on to mine . 
`` Betteredge , you are worth your weight in gold , '' he said . 
Here was the Master Franklin I remembered , coming out again in the good old way at the prospect of a ride , and reminding me of the good old times ! 
We went back to the house in a hurry ; we had the fleetest horse in the stables saddled in a hurry ; and Mr. Franklin rattled off in a hurry , to lodge the cursed Diamond once more in the strong room of a bank . 
While I was in this bewildered frame of mind , sorely needing a little quiet time by myself to put me right again , my daughter Penelope got in my way -LRB- just as her late mother used to get in my way on the stairs -RRB- , and instantly summoned me to tell her all that had passed at the conference between Mr. Franklin and me . 
I accordingly replied that Mr. Franklin and I had both talked of foreign politics , till we could talk no longer , and had then mutually fallen asleep in the heat of the sun . 
Needless to say how astonished they were , when they heard that Mr. Franklin Blake had arrived , and had gone off again on horseback . 
Being at the end of my invention , I said Mr. Franklin 's arrival by the early train was entirely attributable to one of Mr. Franklin 's freaks . 
Being asked , upon that , whether his galloping off again on horseback was another of Mr. Franklin 's freaks , I said , `` Yes , it was ; '' and slipped out of it -- I think very cleverly -- in that way . 
After leaving Mr. Franklin and me at the Shivering Sand , Rosanna , it appeared , had returned to the house in a very unaccountable state of mind . 
In one breath she asked hundreds of questions about Mr. Franklin Blake , and in another breath she had been angry with Penelope for presuming to suppose that a strange gentleman could possess any interest for her . 
She had been surprised , smiling , and scribbling Mr. Franklin 's name inside her workbox . 
Had she and Mr. Franklin known anything of each other before to-day ? 
I could speak to Mr. Franklin 's astonishment as genuine , when he saw how the girl stared at him . 
Penelope could speak to the girl 's inquisitiveness as genuine , when she asked questions about Mr. Franklin . 
Rosanna has fallen in love with Mr. Franklin Blake at first sight ! '' 
The evening came , and the dressing-bell for dinner rang , before Mr. Franklin returned from Frizinghall . 
I took his hot water up to his room myself , expecting to hear , after this extraordinary delay , that something had happened . 
He had not met with the Indians , either going or returning . 
He had deposited the Moonstone in the bank -- describing it merely as a valuable of great price -- and he had got the receipt for it safe in his pocket . 
How the meeting between Mr. Franklin and his aunt and cousin went off , is more than I can tell you . 
Penelope mentioned that she had never known Miss Rachel so particular about the dressing of her hair , and had never seen her look so bright and pretty as she did when she went down to meet Mr. Franklin in the drawing-room . 
The footman 's report was , that the preservation of a respectful composure in the presence of his betters , and the waiting on Mr. Franklin Blake at dinner , were two of the hardest things to reconcile with each other that had ever tried his training in service . 
Later in the evening , we heard them singing and playing duets , Mr. Franklin piping high , Miss Rachel piping higher , and my lady , on the piano , following them , as it were , over hedge and ditch , and seeing them safe through it in a manner most wonderful and pleasant to hear through the open windows , on the terrace at night . 
Later still , I went to Mr. Franklin in the smoking-room , with the soda-water and brandy , and found that Miss Rachel had put the Diamond clean out of his head . 
On summoning up my own recollections -- and on getting Penelope to help me , by consulting her journal -- I find that we may pass pretty rapidly over the interval between Mr. Franklin Blake 's arrival and Miss Rachel 's birthday . 
On the next morning -LRB- the morning of the twenty-sixth -RRB- I showed Mr. Franklin this article of jugglery , and told him what I have already told you . 
His opinion was , not only that the Indians had been lurking about after the Diamond , but also that they were actually foolish enough to believe in their own magic -- meaning thereby the making of signs on a boy 's head , and the pouring of ink into a boy 's hand , and then expecting him to see persons and things beyond the reach of human vision . 
In our country , as well as in the East , Mr. Franklin informed me , there are people who practise this curious hocus-pocus -LRB- without the ink , however -RRB- ; and who call it by a French name , signifying something like brightness of sight . 
`` Depend upon it , '' says Mr. Franklin , `` the Indians took it for granted that we should keep the Diamond here ; and they brought their clairvoyant boy to show them the way to it , if they succeeded in getting into the house last night . '' 
`` It depends , '' says Mr. Franklin , `` on what the boy can really do . 
Whether the jugglers heard , in the town , of Mr. Franklin having been seen at the bank , and drew their conclusions accordingly ; or whether the boy really did see the Diamond where the Diamond was now lodged -LRB- which I , for one , flatly disbelieve -RRB- ; or whether , after all , it was a mere effect of chance , this at any rate is the plain truth -- not the ghost of an Indian came near the house again , through the weeks that passed before Miss Rachel 's birthday . 
The jugglers remained in and about the town plying their trade ; and Mr. Franklin and I remained waiting to see what might happen , and resolute not to put the rogues on their guard by showing our suspicions of them too soon . 
On the twenty-ninth of the month , Miss Rachel and Mr. Franklin hit on a new method of working their way together through the time which might otherwise have hung heavy on their hands . 
As for Mr. Franklin and Miss Rachel , they tortured nothing , I am glad to say . 
Mr. Franklin 's universal genius , dabbling in everything , dabbled in what he called `` decorative painting . '' 
Miss Rachel being wild to try her hand at the new process , Mr. Franklin sent to London for the materials ; mixed them up , with accompaniment of a smell which made the very dogs sneeze when they came into the room ; put an apron and a bib over Miss Rachel 's gown , and set her to work decorating her own little sitting-room -- called , for want of English to name it in , her `` boudoir . '' 
Mr. Franklin scraped off all the nice varnish with pumice stone , and made what he described as a surface to work on . 
Miss Rachel then covered the surface , under his directions and with his help , with patterns and devices -- griffins , birds , flowers , cupids , and such like -- copied from designs made by a famous Italian painter , whose name escapes me : the one , I mean , who stocked the world with Virgin Maries , and had a sweetheart at the baker 's . 
If he had occupied my place in the family , and had seen Miss Rachel with her brush , and Mr. Franklin with his vehicle , he could have written nothing truer of either of them than that . 
Seeing the pleasure which Mr. Franklin and Miss Rachel took in each other 's society , and noting what a pretty match they were in all personal respects , we naturally speculated on the chance of their putting their heads together with other objects in view besides the ornamenting of a door . 
Others -LRB- led by me -RRB- admitted it was likely enough Miss Rachel might be married ; but we doubted -LRB- for reasons which will presently appear -RRB- whether her bridegroom would be Mr. Franklin Blake . 
That Mr. Franklin was in love , on his side , nobody who saw and heard him could doubt . 
Her mouth and chin were -LRB- to quote Mr. Franklin -RRB- morsels for the gods ; and her complexion -LRB- on the same undeniable authority -RRB- was as warm as the sun itself , with this great advantage over the sun , that it was always in nice order to look at . 
Like Mr. Franklin , he was a cousin of hers . 
His name was Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite . 
With all his brightness and cleverness and general good qualities , Mr. Franklin 's chance of topping Mr. Godfrey in our young lady 's estimation was , in my opinion , a very poor chance indeed . 
What chance had Mr. Franklin -- what chance had anybody of average reputation and capacities -- against such a man as this ? 
Miss Rachel , I was informed , joined Mr. Franklin in making fun of the verses at dinner ; and Penelope , who was all on Mr. Franklin 's side , asked me , in great triumph , what I thought of that . 
My daughter replied , that Mr. Franklin might strike in , and try his luck , before the verses were followed by the poet . 
In favour of this view , I must acknowledge that Mr. Franklin left no chance untried of winning Miss Rachel 's good graces . 
Though one of the most inveterate smokers I ever met with , he gave up his cigar , because she said , one day , she hated the stale smell of it in his clothes . 
He slept so badly , after this effort of self-denial , for want of the composing effect of the tobacco to which he was used , and came down morning after morning looking so haggard and worn , that Miss Rachel herself begged him to take to his cigars again . 
he would take to nothing again that could cause her a moment 's annoyance ; he would fight it out resolutely , and get back his sleep , sooner or later , by main force of patience in waiting for it . 
June the sixteenth brought an event which made Mr. Franklin 's chance look , to my mind , a worse chance than ever . 
A strange gentleman , speaking English with a foreign accent , came that morning to the house , and asked to see Mr. Franklin Blake on business . 
The business could not possibly have been connected with the Diamond , for these two reasons -- first , that Mr. Franklin told me nothing about it ; secondly , that he communicated it -LRB- when the gentleman had gone , as I suppose -RRB- to my lady . 
At any rate , Miss Rachel was reported to have said some severe things to Mr. Franklin , at the piano that evening , about the people he had lived among , and the principles he had adopted in foreign parts . 
I suspect some imprudence of Mr. Franklin 's on the Continent -- with a woman or a debt at the bottom of it -- had followed him to England . 
In this case , not only Mr. Franklin , but my lady too , for a wonder , left me in the dark . 
If Penelope was to be believed , Mr. Franklin had seized the opportunity of the reconciliation to make an offer to Miss Rachel , and had neither been accepted nor refused . 
My girl was sure -LRB- from signs and tokens which I need not trouble you with -RRB- that her young mistress had fought Mr. Franklin off by declining to believe that he was in earnest , and had then secretly regretted treating him in that way afterwards . 
Penelope 's notion that her fellow-servant was in love with Mr. Franklin -LRB- which my daughter , by my orders , kept strictly secret -RRB- seemed to me just as absurd as ever . 
For example , the girl constantly put herself in Mr. Franklin 's way -- very slyly and quietly , but she did it . 
He took about as much notice of her as he took of the cat : it never seemed to occur to him to waste a look on Rosanna 's plain face . 
She caught Rosanna at Mr. Franklin 's dressing table , secretly removing a rose which Miss Rachel had given him to wear in his button-hole , and putting another rose like it , of her own picking , in its place . 
Mr. Franklin had only given her a plain locket not worth half the money . 
My daughter Penelope , nevertheless -- such is the obstinacy of women -- still backed him to win . 
After breakfast , Mr. Franklin and I had a private conference on the subject of the Moonstone -- the time having now come for removing it from the bank at Frizinghall , and placing it in Miss Rachel 's own hands . 
Whether he had been trying to make love to his cousin again , and had got a rebuff -- or whether his broken rest , night after night , was aggravating the queer contradictions and uncertainties in his character -- I do n't know . 
But certain it is , that Mr. Franklin failed to show himself at his best on the morning of the birthday . 
He was in twenty different minds about the Diamond in as many minutes . 
Nothing had happened to justify us in alarming my lady on the subject of the jewel ; and nothing could alter the legal obligation that now lay on Mr. Franklin to put it in his cousin 's possession . 
That was my view of the matter ; and , twist and turn it as he might , he was forced in the end to make it his view too . 
We arranged that he was to ride over , after lunch , to Frizinghall , and bring the Diamond back , with Mr. Godfrey and the two young ladies , in all probability , to keep him company on the way home again . 
They consumed the whole morning , and part of the afternoon , in the everlasting business of decorating the door , Penelope standing by to mix the colours , as directed ; and my lady , as luncheon time drew near , going in and out of the room , with her handkerchief to her nose -LRB- for they used a deal of Mr. Franklin 's vehicle that day -RRB- , and trying vainly to get the two artists away from their work . 
Mr. Franklin snatched a morsel from the luncheon table , and rode off to Frizinghall -- to escort his cousins , as he told my lady . 
This being one of the high festivals on which I took my place at the side-board , in command of the attendance at table , I had plenty to occupy my mind while Mr. Franklin was away . 
I was aroused from what I am inclined to think must have been , not a nap , but a reverie , by the clatter of horses ' hoofs outside ; and , going to the door , received a cavalcade comprising Mr. Franklin and his three cousins , escorted by one of old Mr. Ablewhite 's grooms . 
Mr. Godfrey struck me , strangely enough , as being like Mr. Franklin in this respect -- that he did not seem to be in his customary spirits . 
He kindly shook hands with me as usual , and was most politely glad to see his old friend Betteredge wearing so well . 
Under cover of the noise made by the young ladies , I had an opportunity of saying a private word to Mr. Franklin in the hall . 
He nodded , and tapped the breast-pocket of his coat . 
With that answer , he asked for my lady , and , hearing she was in the small drawing-room , went there straight . 
The bell rang , before he had been a minute in the room , and Penelope was sent to tell Miss Rachel that Mr. Franklin Blake wanted to speak to her . 
There sat Mr. Franklin , in a chair by the bookcase , tugging at his beard , and looking anxiously towards the window . 
And there , at the window , stood the object he was contemplating -- my lady , having the extract from the Colonel 's Will in her hand , and keeping her back turned on the whole of the company . 
It was plain enough that she was posed by the same difficulty which had posed Mr. Franklin and me in our conference at the Shivering Sand . 
Mr. Franklin was a perfect savage by comparison with him . 
What passed between my mistress and me , on this occasion , was , in the main , a repetition of what had passed between Mr. Franklin and me at the Shivering Sand -- with this difference , that I took care to keep my own counsel about the jugglers , seeing that nothing had happened to justify me in alarming my lady on this head . 
On my way back to my own part of the house , I was encountered by Mr. Franklin . 
He wanted to know if I had seen anything of his cousin , Rachel . 
Could I tell him where his cousin Godfrey was ? 
Mr. Franklin 's suspicions apparently took the same turn . 
He tugged hard at his beard , and went and shut himself up in the library , with a bang of the door that had a world of meaning in it . 
I hate him for trying to supplant Mr. Franklin ! '' 
`` I saw him take her away alone into the rose-garden , '' says Penelope . 
`` Mr. Franklin 's the man ! '' 
It was without any setting when it had been placed in her hands ; but that universal genius , Mr. Franklin , had contrived , with the help of his neat fingers and a little bit of silver wire , to fix it as a brooch in the bosom of her white dress . 
Mr. Franklin again -- surely , you will say , Mr. Franklin stirred the company up into making a pleasant evening of it ? 
He had quite recovered himself , and he was in wonderful force and spirits , Penelope having informed him , I suspect , of Mr. Godfrey 's reception in the rose-garden . 
What do you say , when our county member , growing hot at cheese and salad time , about the spread of democracy in England , burst out as follows : `` If we once lose our ancient safeguards , Mr. Blake , I beg to ask you , what have we got left ? '' 
-- what do you say to Mr. Franklin answering , from the Italian point of view : `` We have got three things left , sir -- Love , Music , and Salad ? '' 
He not only terrified the company with such outbreaks as these , but , when the English side of him turned up in due course , he lost his foreign smoothness ; and , getting on the subject of the medical profession , said such downright things in ridicule of doctors , that he actually put good-humoured little Mr. Candy in a rage . 
The dispute between them began in Mr. Franklin being led -- I forget how -- to acknowledge that he had latterly slept very badly at night . 
Mr. Franklin replied that a course of medicine , and a course of groping in the dark , meant , in his estimation , one and the same thing . 
Mr. Candy , hitting back smartly , said that Mr. Franklin himself was , constitutionally speaking , groping in the dark after sleep , and that nothing but medicine could help him to find it . 
Mr. Franklin , keeping the ball up on his side , said he had often heard of the blind leading the blind , and now , for the first time , he knew what it meant . 
Mr. Franklin and I looked at each other ; it was the sound of the Indian drum . 
Mr. Franklin got one on side of Miss Rachel , and I put myself behind her . 
The ladies withdrew to the drawing-room ; and the gentlemen -LRB- excepting Mr. Franklin and Mr. Murthwaite -RRB- returned to their wine . 
Going back by way of the shrubbery , I smelt tobacco , and found Mr. Franklin and Mr. Murthwaite -LRB- the latter smoking a cheroot -RRB- walking slowly up and down among the trees . 
Mr. Franklin beckoned to me to join them . 
`` This , '' says Mr. Franklin , presenting me to the great traveller , `` is Gabriel Betteredge , the old servant and friend of our family of whom I spoke to you just now . 
Mr. Franklin , after what looked to me like a little private veering about between the different sides of his character , broke the silence as follows : `` I feel some hesitation , Mr. Murthwaite , in troubling you with family matters , in which you can have no interest and which I am not very willing to speak of out of our own circle . 
With this preface , he told the Indian traveller all that he had told me at the Shivering Sand . 
`` Now , '' says Mr. Franklin , when he had done , `` what does your experience say ? '' 
`` My experience , '' answered the traveller , `` says that you have had more narrow escapes of your life , Mr. Franklin Blake , than I have had of mine ; and that is saying a great dealt '' It was Mr. Franklin 's turn to be astonished now . 
he asked . 
How you have escaped them I ca n't imagine , '' says the eminent traveller , lighting his cheroot again , and staring hard at Mr. Franklin . 
`` Broad daylight , '' says Mr. Franklin . 
If you ever feel inclined to travel beyond the civilized limits , Mr. Blake , let me know , and I will go with you . 
`` You do n't really mean to say , sir , '' I asked , `` that they would have taken Mr. Franklin 's life , to get their Diamond , if he had given them the chance ? '' 
Mr. Franklin , expressing no opinion at all , brought us back to the matter in hand . 
`` They have seen the Moonstone on Miss Verinder 's dress , '' he said . 
Mr. Franklin turned to me . 
`` There is no help for it , '' he said . 
Mr. Murthwaite answered me , before Mr. Franklin could speak . 
`` The Indians , wo n't risk coming back to-night , '' he said . 
He threw away his cheroot , and took Mr. Franklin 's arm , to go back to the ladies . 
She had overheard Mr. Franklin sharpening his wits on Mr. Godfrey , at the expense of Ladies ' Charities in general ; and she had noticed that Mr. Godfrey hit him back again rather more smartly than became a gentleman of his benevolent character . 
She had detected Miss Rachel , apparently engaged in appeasing Mrs. Threadgall by showing her some photographs , and really occupied in stealing looks at Mr. Franklin , which no intelligent lady 's maid could misinterpret for a single instant . 
Mr. Franklin took nothing . 
He sat down , looking dead tired : the talking on this birthday occasion had , I suppose , been too much for him . 
Then she turned back to Mr. Franklin , still sitting weary and silent in a corner . 
But standing near the old oak frame which holds our large looking-glass , I saw her reflected in it , slyly slipping the locket which Mr. Franklin had given to her , out of the bosom of her dress , and showing it to him for a moment , with a smile which certainly meant something out of the common , before she tripped off to bed . 
As soon as Miss Rachel left him eyes to see with , Mr. Franklin noticed me . 
His variable humour , shifting about everything , had shifted about the Indians already . 
`` Betteredge , '' he said , `` I 'm half inclined to think I took Mr. Murthwaite too seriously , when we had that talk in the shrubbery . 
`` All right , '' says Mr. Franklin . 
He looked so worn and pale as he nodded to me , and took his candle to go upstairs , that I ventured to advise his having a drop of brandy and water , by way of nightcap . 
He pressed Mr. Franklin , in the friendliest manner , to take something , before he went to bed . 
Mr. Franklin declined the brandy and water , and went upstairs with Mr. Godfrey , their rooms being next door to each other . 
At any rate , I had a touch of Mr. Franklin 's malady that night . 
Mr. Franklin , whose clear head I had confidently counted on to advise us , seemed to be as helpless as his cousin when he heard the news in his turn . 
For a wonder , he had had a good night 's rest at last ; and the unaccustomed luxury of sleep had , as he said himself , apparently stupified him . 
However , when he had swallowed his cup of coffee -- which he always took , on the foreign plan , some hours before he ate any breakfast -- his brains brightened ; the clear-headed side of him turned up , and he took the matter in hand , resolutely and cleverly , much as follows : He first sent for the servants , and told them to leave all the lower doors and windows -LRB- with the exception of the front door , which I had opened -RRB- exactly as they had been left when we locked up overnight . 
He next proposed to his cousin and to me to make quite sure , before we took any further steps , that the Diamond had not accidentally dropped somewhere out of sight -- say at the back of the cabinet , or down behind the table on which the cabinet stood . 
Having searched in both places , and found nothing -- having also questioned Penelope , and discovered from her no more than the little she had already told me -- Mr. Franklin suggested next extending our inquiries to Miss Rachel , and sent Penelope to knock at her bedroom door . 
`` The loss of the Diamond seems to have quite overwhelmed Rachel , '' she said , in reply to Mr. Franklin . 
`` And the first thing for the police to do , '' added Mr. Franklin , catching her up , `` is to lay hands on the Indian jugglers who performed here last night . '' 
My lady and Mr. Godfrey -LRB- not knowing what Mr. Franklin and I knew -RRB- both started , and both looked surprised . 
`` I ca n't stop to explain myself now , '' Mr. Franklin went on . 
Give me a letter of introduction , '' says he , addressing my lady , to one of the magistrates at Frizinghall -- merely telling him that I represent your interests and wishes , and let me ride off with it instantly . 
-LRB- Nota bene : Whether it was the French side or the English , the right side of Mr. Franklin seemed to be uppermost now . 
He put pen , ink , and paper before his aunt , who -LRB- as it appeared to me -RRB- wrote the letter he wanted a little unwillingly . 
I went out with Mr. Franklin to the stables , and took the opportunity of asking him how the Indians -LRB- whom I suspected , of course , as shrewdly as he did -RRB- could possibly have got into the house . 
`` One of them might have slipped into the hall , in the confusion , when the dinner company were going away , '' says Mr. Franklin . 
With those words , he called to the groom to open the gate , and galloped off . 
The more I turned it over in my mind , the less satisfactory Mr. Franklin 's explanation appeared to be . 
A little before eleven , Mr. Franklin came back . 
The resolute side of him had , to all appearance , given way , in the interval since his departure , under the stress that had been laid on it . 
He had left us at a gallop ; he came back to us at a walk . 
When he went away , he was made of iron . 
When he returned , he was stuffed with cotton , as limp as limp could be . 
`` Yes , '' says Mr. Franklin ; `` they said they would follow me in a fly . 
`` The poor ill-used Indians have been most unjustly put in prison , '' says Mr. Franklin . 
It 's been proved , '' says Mr. Franklin , dwelling with great relish on his own incapacity , `` to be simply impossible . '' 
Such was Mr. Franklin 's narrative of events at Frizinghall . 
He reported passing Mr. Franklin on the terrace , sitting in the sun -LRB- I suppose with the Italian side of him uppermost -RRB- ; and warning the police , as they went by , that the investigation was hopeless , before the investigation had begun . 
We thereupon went down-stairs again ; and were met by Mr. Godfrey and Mr. Franklin , crossing the hall . 
Released from examination , Mr. Franklin -LRB- still sticking to the helpless view of our difficulty -RRB- whispered to me : `` That man will be of no earthly use to us . 
Released in his turn , Mr. Godfrey whispered to me : `` Evidently a most competent person . 
She took up her garden hat from a chair , and then went straight to Penelope with this question : `` Mr. Franklin Blake sent you with a message to me this morning ? '' 
`` He wished to speak to me , did n't he ? '' 
`` Where is he now ? '' 
Answering for my daughter , I said , `` Mr. Franklin is on the terrace , miss . '' 
She went up to Mr. Franklin without appearing to notice Mr. Godfrey , who thereupon drew back and left them by themselves . 
What she said to Mr. Franklin appeared to be spoken vehemently . 
It lasted but for a short time ; and -LRB- judging by what I saw of his face from the window -RRB- seemed to astonish him beyond all power of expression . 
Miss Rachel saw her -- said a few last words to Mr. Franklin -- and suddenly went back into the house again , before her mother came up with her . 
My lady , surprised herself , and noticing Mr. Franklin 's surprise , spoke to him . 
Mr. Franklin walked away a little , between the two , telling them what had happened , I suppose ; for they both stopped short , after taking a few steps , like persons struck with amazement . 
Taking what she had said at her bedroom door as a guide to guess by , I could only conclude that she was mortally offended by our sending for the police , and that Mr. Franklin 's astonishment on the terrace was caused by her having expressed herself to him -LRB- as the person chiefly instrumental in fetching the police -RRB- to that effect . 
Mr. Franklin appeared to think it a point of honour to forbear repeating to a servant -- even to so old a servant as I was -- what Miss Rachel had said to him on the terrace . 
Mr. Godfrey , who , as a gentleman and a relative , had been probably admitted into Mr. Franklin 's confidence , respected that confidence as he was bound to do . 
I could scarcely believe him -LRB- taking Mr. Franklin 's view -RRB- to be quite such an ass as that . 
While the police-officer was still pondering in solitude , I was sent for to see Mr. Franklin in the library . 
`` Mr. Franklin Blake dropped one of his rings up-stairs , '' says Rosanna ; `` and I have been into the library to give it to him . '' 
I found Mr. Franklin writing at the library-table . 
He asked for a conveyance to the railway station the moment I entered the room . 
The first sound of his voice informed me that we now had the resolute side of him uppermost once more . 
`` Going to telegraph to London , '' says Mr. Franklin . 
Talking of mysteries , by-the-bye , '' says Mr. Franklin , dropping his voice , `` I have another word to say to you before you go to the stables . 
I can hardly tell whether I was more startled or distressed at hearing him say that . 
If I had been younger , I might have confessed as much to Mr. Franklin . 
`` She came in here with a ring I dropped in my bedroom , '' Mr. Franklin went on . 
I could not bring myself to tell him the girl 's story , even then . 
It would have been almost as good as telling him that she was the thief . 
Besides , even if I had made a clean breast of it , and even supposing she was the thief , the reason why she should let out her secret to Mr. Franklin , of all the people in the world , would have been still as far to seek as ever . 
`` I ca n't bear the idea of getting the poor girl into a scrape , merely because she has a flighty way with her , and talks very strangely , '' Mr. Franklin went on . 
`` And yet if she had said to the Superintendent what she said to me , fool as he is , I 'm afraid -- '' He stopped there , and left the rest unspoken . 
This view -LRB- which , I am bound to say , I thought a probable view myself , on reflection -RRB- seemed to relieve Mr. Franklin mightily : he folded up his telegram , and dismissed the subject . 
The poor thing is breaking her heart about Mr. Franklin Blake . '' 
If it was possible for Penelope to be right , the explanation of Rosanna 's strange language and behaviour might have been all in this -- that she did n't care what she said , so long as she could surprise Mr. Franklin into speaking to her . 
Though he had only said three words , still she had carried her point , and Mr. Franklin had spoken to her . 
Going round with the chaise to the front door , I found not only Mr. Franklin , but Mr. Godfrey and Superintendent Seegrave also waiting for me on the steps . 
Hearing of this new move , Mr. Franklin had volunteered to take the Superintendent back to the town , from which he could telegraph to London as easily as from our station . 
Before he took the reins to drive off , Mr. Franklin walked me away a few steps out of hearing of the others . 
`` I will wait to telegraph to London , '' he said , `` till I see what comes of our examination of the Indians . 
`` It 's a matter of quieting Rachel 's mind , '' answered Mr. Franklin gravely . 
He left me suddenly , as if he desired to cut short any further talk between us . 
Further talk might have let me into the secret of what Miss Rachel had said to him on the terrace . 
My lady was in such low spirits about her daughter , that I could not bring myself to make her additionally anxious , by reporting what Rosanna Spearman had said to Mr. Franklin . 
At Mr. Franklin 's request , he had kindly given them the benefit of his knowledge of the language , in dealing with those two , out of the three Indians , who knew nothing of English . 
On reaching that conclusion , Mr. Franklin had sent his telegraphic message to London , and there the matter now rested till to-morrow came . 
We were all sorry for the little doctor ; but Mr. Franklin appeared to regret his illness , chiefly on Miss Rachel 's account . 
From what he said to my lady , while I was in the room at breakfast-time , he appeared to think that Miss Rachel -- if the suspense about the Moonstone was not soon set at rest -- might stand in urgent need of the best medical advice at our disposal . 
Breakfast had not been over long , when a telegram from Mr. Blake , the elder , arrived , in answer to his son . 
It informed us that he had laid hands -LRB- by help of his friend , the Commissioner -RRB- on the right man to help us . 
At reading the name of the new police-officer , Mr. Franklin gave a start . 
It seems that he had heard some curious anecdotes about Sergeant Cuff , from his father 's lawyer , during his stay in London . 
`` Her ladyship 's nephew , Mr. Franklin Blake , knows , '' I said . 
Mr. Franklin was as close at hand as could be -- waiting for his first chance of being introduced to the great Cuff . 
In half a minute he was in the room , and was giving his evidence as follows : `` That door , Sergeant , '' he said , `` has been painted by Miss Verinder , under my inspection , with my help , and in a vehicle of my own composition . 
`` Perfectly , '' answered Mr. Franklin . 
Having settled the question of the paint , Sergeant Cuff , from that moment , gave his brother-officer up as a bad job -- and addressed himself to Mr. Franklin , as the more promising assistant of the two . 
`` It 's quite on the cards , sir , '' he said , `` that you have put the clue into our hands . '' 
As the words passed his lips , the bedroom door opened , and Miss Rachel came out among us suddenly . 
`` Did you say , '' she asked , pointing to Mr. Franklin , `` that he had put the clue into your hands ? '' 
She turned for one moment , and tried to look at Mr. Franklin . 
`` Do your duty by yourself -- and do n't allow Mr. Franklin Blake to help you ! '' 
She said those words so spitefully , so savagely , with such an extraordinary outbreak of ill-will towards Mr. Franklin , in her voice and in her look , that -- though I had known her from a baby , though I loved and honoured her next to my lady herself -- I was ashamed of Miss Rachel for the first time in my life . 
I could n't bring myself to look at the Sergeant -- I looked at Mr. Franklin , who stood nearest to me . 
He seemed to be even more sorely distressed at what had passed than I was . 
`` I told you I was uneasy about her , '' he said . 
`` A young lady 's tongue is a privileged member , sir , '' says the Sergeant to Mr. Franklin . 
Mr. Franklin composed himself , and came back with an effort from Miss Rachel to the matter in hand . 
`` I think I do understand , '' he said . 
Mr. Franklin shook his head , and answered , `` I ca n't say I did . '' 
Mr. Franklin struck in there , `` Or possibly your daughter , Betteredge . '' 
He turned to Sergeant Cuff , and explained that my daughter was Miss Verinder 's maid . 
That somebody -LRB- putting together Penelope 's evidence and Mr. Franklin 's evidence -RRB- must have been in the room , and done the mischief , between midnight and three o'clock on the Thursday morning . 
Having brought his investigation to this point , Sergeant Cuff discovered that such a person as Superintendent Seegrave was still left in the room , upon which he summed up the proceedings for his brother-officer 's benefit , as follows : `` This trifle of yours , Mr. Superintendent , '' says the Sergeant , pointing to the place on the door , `` has grown a little in importance since you noticed it last . 
Mr. Franklin and I waited to see what was coming next . 
Leaving the room with this message , I heard Mr. Franklin ask the Sergeant a question , and stopped to hear the answer also at the threshold of the door . 
`` Can you guess yet , '' inquired Mr. Franklin , `` who has stolen the Diamond ? '' 
Mr. Franklin strolled out into the garden , and joined Mr. Godfrey , whose time for departure was now drawing near . 
`` The only gentlemen are my nephews , Mr. Blake and Mr. Ablewhite . 
As I said the words , Mr. Godfrey himself knocked at the door to say good-bye , and was followed in by Mr. Franklin , who was going with him to the station . 
Mr. Franklin , on following his cousin out , informed the Sergeant that all his clothes were open to examination , and that nothing he possessed was kept under lock and key . 
His views , you will observe , had been met with the utmost readiness by my lady , by Mr. Godfrey , and by Mr. Franklin . 
For the sake of your better understanding of what is now to come , I may add to this , that the shrubbery path was Mr. Franklin 's favourite walk . 
When he was out in the grounds , and when we failed to find him anywhere else , we generally found him here . 
I knew the shrubbery was Mr. Franklin 's favourite walk ; I knew he would most likely turn that way when he came back from the station ; I knew that Penelope had over and over again caught her fellow-servant hanging about there , and had always declared to me that Rosanna 's object was to attract Mr. Franklin 's attention . 
If my daughter was right , she might well have been lying in wait for Mr. Franklin 's return when the Sergeant noticed her . 
Out of pure pity for the girl -- on my soul and my character , out of pure pity for the girl -- I gave the Sergeant the necessary explanations , and told him that Rosanna had been mad enough to set her heart on Mr. Franklin Blake . 
`` The falling in love with a gentleman of Mr. Franklin Blake 's manners and appearance does n't seem to me to be the maddest part of her conduct by any means . 
You think Mr. Franklin Blake has n't got a suspicion of the girl 's fancy for him ? 
he would have found it out fast enough if she had been nice-looking . 
I might as well have held my tongue about Rosanna and Mr. Franklin ! 
Drifting towards the shrubbery , some time later , there I met Mr. Franklin . 
After returning from seeing his cousin off at the station , he had been with my lady , holding a long conversation with her . 
She had told him of Miss Rachel 's unaccountable refusal to let her wardrobe be examined ; and had put him in such low spirits about my young lady , that he seemed to shrink from speaking on the subject . 
The family temper appeared in his face that evening , for the first time in my experience of him . 
`` Well , Betteredge , '' he said , `` how does the atmosphere of mystery and suspicion in which we are all living now , agree with you ? 
After breaking out in that way , he abstained from speaking again until he had composed himself . 
We walked silently , side by side , for a minute or two , and then he asked me what had become of Sergeant Cuff . 
It was impossible to put Mr. Franklin off with the excuse of the Sergeant being in my room , composing his mind . 
Mr. Franklin 's clear head saw the turn the Sergeant 's suspicions had taken , in the twinkling of an eye . 
asked Mr. Franklin . 
Mr. Franklin said those words with a sudden heat and vehemence , as if the Sergeant had mortally offended him . 
There was a moment 's silence between them : Mr. Franklin walked close up to the Sergeant . 
Mr. Franklin spoke first ; dropping his voice as suddenly as he had raised it . 
`` I suppose you know , Mr. Cuff , '' he said , `` that you are treading on delicate ground ? '' 
Mr. Franklin had no choice but to submit . 
He turned away in anger -- and left us . 
As it turned out , I found myself standing nearly in the same place where Rosanna Spearman and I had been talking together when Mr. Franklin suddenly appeared before us , on arriving at our house from London . 
I declare I almost heard her voice telling me again that the Shivering Sand seemed to draw her to it against her own will , whenever she went out -- almost saw her face brighten again , as it brightened when she first set eyes upon Mr. Franklin coming briskly out on us from among the hillocks . 
Mr. Franklin , on the other side , pulled open the swing-door , and beckoning me into the hall , inquired if I had seen anything of Rosanna Spearman . 
`` I ca n't explain it , '' says Mr. Franklin ; `` but , if the girl is concerned in the loss of the Diamond , I do really believe she was on the point of confessing everything -- to me , of all the people in the world -- not two minutes since . '' 
Looking towards the swing-door , as he said those last words , I fancied I saw it opened a little way from the inner side . 
Not feeling sure that I had really seen the Sergeant -- and not desiring to make needless mischief , where , Heaven knows , there was mischief enough going on already -- I told Mr. Franklin that I thought one of the dogs had got into the house -- and then begged him to describe what had happened between Rosanna and himself . 
Mr. Franklin pointed to the billiard-table . 
`` I was knocking the balls about , '' he said , `` and trying to get this miserable business of the Diamond out of my mind . 
Not from any ill-will to the poor girl : but -- '' He stopped there , and going back to the billiard-table , began to knock the balls about once more . 
If Rosanna had done nothing to compromise herself , the hope which Mr. Franklin confessed to having felt would have been hard enough on her in all conscience . 
For all these reasons -LRB- sorry as I was for Rosanna -RRB- I could not but think that Mr. Franklin 's way of looking at the matter was neither unnatural nor unreasonable , in Mr. Franklin 's position . 
I said a word to him to that effect . 
he said in return . 
With those kind words he laid down the cue and left me . 
I reported the result to Mr. Franklin , who , thereupon , left the library , and went up to bed . 
I left him to his own devices ; and going into the grounds shortly after , met Mr. Franklin on his favourite walk by the shrubbery side . 
He made up to Mr. Franklin , who received him , I must own , haughtily enough . 
was all the return he got for politely wishing Mr. Franklin good morning . 
Mr. Franklin broke in , sharply enough . 
`` I possess no special information , '' says Mr. Franklin . 
Sergeant Cuff put that answer by him , as if no answer had been made . 
`` You may save my time , sir , from being wasted on an inquiry at a distance , '' he went on , `` if you choose to understand me and speak out . '' 
`` I do n't understand you , '' answered Mr. Franklin ; `` and I have nothing to say . '' 
Once more Mr. Franklin cut him short ; once more Mr. Franklin answered , `` I have nothing to say . '' 
Sergeant Cuff had , no doubt , just heard enough , before I interrupted him , to make him suspect that Rosanna had relieved her mind by confessing something to Mr. Franklin Blake . 
Seeing that Mr. Franklin was not alone , Rosanna came to a standstill , evidently in great perplexity what to do next . 
Mr. Franklin saw the girls as soon as I saw them . 
The Sergeant , with his devilish cunning , took on not to have noticed them at all . 
Before either Mr. Franklin or I could say a word , Sergeant Cuff struck in smoothly , with an appearance of continuing the previous conversation . 
`` You need n't be afraid of harming the girl , sir , '' he said to Mr. Franklin , speaking in a loud voice , so that Rosanna might hear him . 
Mr. Franklin instantly took on not to have noticed the girls either . 
He answered , speaking loudly on his side : `` I take no interest whatever in Rosanna Spearman . '' 
All I saw at the distance was that Rosanna suddenly turned round , the moment Mr. Franklin had spoken . 
`` You must make it right with Rosanna , '' Mr. Franklin said to me , when we were alone . 
He had done worse than listen , as I privately thought to myself . 
He had remembered my telling him that the girl was in love with Mr. Franklin ; and he had calculated on that , when he appealed to Mr. Franklin 's interest in Rosanna -- in Rosanna 's hearing . 
In another day or two , Mr. Franklin , we shall all be struck dumb together -- for this reason , that we shall all be listening to surprise each other 's secrets , and all know it . 
Mr. Franklin asked . 
I thoroughly understood him . 
If you will , for once in your life , remember that you are mortal , perhaps you will thoroughly understand him too . 
My lady and Mr. Franklin breakfasted together . 
After breakfast , Mr. Franklin took one of his sudden resolutions , and went out precipitately to quiet his mind by a long walk . 
I was the only person who saw him go ; and he told me he should be back before the Sergeant returned . 
`` I am afraid , father , '' she said , `` Mr. Franklin has hurt Rosanna cruelly , without intending it . '' 
She was bent on speaking to Mr. Franklin , this morning , come what might of it . 
But Mr. Franklin said he took no interest whatever in her -- and , oh , he said it in such a cruel voice ! '' 
`` He said it to stop the Sergeant 's mouth , '' I answered . 
`` But you see , father -LRB- though Mr. Franklin is n't to blame -RRB- , he 's been mortifying and disappointing her for weeks and weeks past ; and now this comes on the top of it all ! 
She has no right , of course , to expect him to take any interest in her . 
She frightened me , father , when Mr. Franklin said those words . 
I called to mind , now my thoughts were directed that way , what had passed between Mr. Franklin and Rosanna overnight . 
I had promised Mr. Franklin to speak to Rosanna , and this seemed the fittest time for keeping my word . 
I have got something to say to you from Mr. Franklin . '' 
`` Mr. Franklin is very kind and considerate . 
Please to thank him . '' 
`` To Mr. Franklin ? '' 
`` Yes ; to Mr. Franklin . '' 
She was in no condition to understand the caution against speaking to him in private , which Mr. Franklin had directed me to give her . 
Feeling my way , little by little , I only told her Mr. Franklin had gone out for a walk . 
`` I sha n't trouble Mr. Franklin , to-day . '' 
Mr. Franklin came back from his walk as the Sergeant said those startling words . 
Just as he closed it , Mr. Franklin came running down the steps . 
`` Good-bye , Rachel , '' he said , holding out his hand . 
cried Miss Rachel , louder than ever , and taking no more notice of Mr. Franklin than she had taken of Sergeant Cuff . 
Mr. Franklin stepped back thunderstruck , as well he might be . 
My lady , with anger and sorrow and shame all struggling together in her face , made him a sign to start the horses , and then turned back hastily into the house . 
Mr. Franklin , recovering the use of his speech , called after her , as the carriage drove off , `` Aunt ! 
My lady turned as though to speak to him . 
`` Let me see you , before you leave us , Franklin , '' she said , in a broken voice -- and went on to her own room . 
`` Do me a last favour , Betteredge , '' says Mr. Franklin , turning to me , with the tears in his eyes . 
He too went his way into the house . 
For the moment , Miss Rachel had completely unmanned him . 
My mistress came out among us -LRB- with Mr. Franklin following , and trying vainly to compose her -RRB- , quite beside herself with the horror of the thing . 
She suffered Mr. Franklin to lead her back into the room . 
Asked if she knew what had led her fellow-servant to destroy herself , my daughter answered -LRB- as you will foresee -RRB- that it was for love of Mr. Franklin Blake . 
I said , `` And for Mr. Franklin 's sake , my dear , as well . 
If Rosanna has died for love of him , it is not with his knowledge or by his fault . 
Let him leave the house to-day , if he does leave it , without the useless pain of knowing the truth . '' 
On my way to answer it , I met Mr. Franklin coming out of his aunt 's sitting-room . 
He mentioned that her ladyship was ready to see Sergeant Cuff -- in my presence as before -- and he added that he himself wanted to say two words to the Sergeant first . 
`` She will come right again , '' answered Mr. Franklin , `` when she hears that I have gone away , and that she will see me no more . '' 
I thought he spoke in resentment of my young lady 's treatment of him . 
My mistress had noticed , from the time when the police first came into the house , that the bare mention of him was enough to set Miss Rachel 's temper in a flame . 
He had been too fond of his cousin to like to confess this to himself , until the truth had been forced on him , when she drove off to her aunt 's . 
His eyes once opened in that cruel way which you know of , Mr. Franklin had taken his resolution -- the one resolution which a man of any spirit could take -- to leave the house . 
What he had to say to the Sergeant was spoken in my presence . 
`` I do n't understand you , '' says Mr. Franklin . 
As I rose to conduct him to my lady 's room , he asked if Mr. Franklin wished to be present . 
Mr. Franklin answered , `` Not unless Lady Verinder desires it . '' 
He added , in a whisper to me , as I was following the Sergeant out , `` I know what that man is going to say about Rachel ; and I am too fond of her to hear it , and keep my temper . 
In Mr. Franklin 's place , I should have called her in . 
Perhaps , when my back was turned , he did call her in ? 
In that case , it is only doing my daughter justice to declare that she would stick at nothing , in the way of comforting Mr. Franklin Blake . 
`` Mr. Blake gave his message , my lady . 
And I gave Mr. Blake a reason -- '' `` It is needless to tell me your reason . 
It ended , as you are aware , in the discovery of the smear on the door , and in Mr. Franklin Blake 's evidence satisfying me , that this same smear , and the loss of the Diamond , were pieces of the same puzzle . 
And she is mortally offended with Mr. Franklin Blake . 
She betrays an incomprehensible resentment against Mr. Blake , Mr. Superintendent , and myself -- otherwise , the very three people who have all , in their different ways , been trying to help her to recover her lost jewel . 
Your ladyship consented ; Mr. Blake consented ; Mr. Ablewhite consented . 
You saw yourselves that , so far from forgiving Mr. Blake for having done more than all the rest of you to put the clue into my hands , she publicly insulted Mr. Blake , on the steps of her mother 's house . 
I should have tried Mr. Blake as well -- but for one obstacle in the way . 
He saw the drift of my proceedings at a very early date ; and , with his interest in Miss Verinder , any mutual understanding was impossible between him and me . 
In the meantime , it was my business to find out whether Mr. Franklin persisted in his resolution to leave us by the afternoon train . 
After having been informed of the conference in my lady 's room , and of how it had ended , he immediately decided on waiting to hear the news from Frizinghall . 
This very natural alteration in his plans -- which , with ordinary people , would have led to nothing in particular -- proved , in Mr. Franklin 's case , to have one objectionable result . 
It left him unsettled , with a legacy of idle tine on his hands , and in so doing , it let out all the foreign sides of his character , one on the top of another , like rats out of a bag . 
Now as an Italian-Englishman , now as a German-Englishman , and now as a French-Englishman , he drifted in and out of all the sitting-rooms in the house , with nothing to talk of but Miss Rachel 's treatment of him ; and with nobody to address himself to but me . 
I found him -LRB- for example -RRB- in the library , sitting under the map of Modern Italy , and quite unaware of any other method of meeting his troubles , except the method of talking about them . 
He was so eloquent in drawing the picture of his own neglected merits , and so pathetic in lamenting over it when it was done , that I felt quite at my wits ' end how to console him , when it suddenly occurred to me that here was a case for the wholesome application of a bit of Robinson Crusoe . 
A minute since , Mr. Franklin had rung furiously for a little light refreshment . 
On its production , in a violent hurry , by Samuel , Mr. Franklin had vanished before the bell down-stairs had quite done ringing with the pull he had given to it . 
I tried the morning-room , and found him at last . 
There he was at the window , drawing hieroglyphics with his finger in the damp on the glass . 
`` Your sherry is waiting for you , sir , '' I said to him . 
I might as well have addressed myself to one of the four walls of the room ; he was down in the bottomless deep of his own meditations , past all pulling up . 
Mr. Franklin shut up Robinson Crusoe , and floundered into his German-English gibberish on the spot . 
he said , as if I had personally objected to looking into it . 
My head was by this time in such a condition , that I was not quite sure whether it was my own head , or Mr. Franklin 's . 
I got Mr. Franklin his sherry ; I retired to my own room ; and I solaced myself with the most composing pipe of tobacco I ever remember to have smoked in my life . 
Do n't suppose , however , that I was quit of Mr. Franklin on such easy terms as these . 
Drifting again , out of the morning-room into the hall , he found his way to the offices next , smelt my pipe , and was instantly reminded that he had been simple enough to give up smoking for Miss Rachel 's sake . 
In the twinkling of an eye , he burst in on me with his cigar case , and came out strong on the one everlasting subject , in his neat , witty , unbelieving , French way . 
`` In the time of the late Mrs. Betteredge , '' I said , `` I felt pretty often inclined to try your philosophy , Mr. Franklin . 
Mr. Franklin burst out laughing -- and we were as merry as crickets , until the next new side of his character turned up in due course . 
The groom brought two letters from his mistress ; one addressed to Mr. Franklin , and the other to me . 
Mr. Franklin 's letter I sent to him in the library -- into which refuge his driftings had now taken him for the second time . 
When I have reported Mr. Franklin 's departure , the history of the Saturday 's events will be finished at last . 
I had kept the pony-chaise ready , in case Mr. Franklin persisted in leaving us by the train that night . 
The appearance of the luggage , followed downstairs by Mr. Franklin himself , informed me plainly enough that he had held firm to a resolution for once in his life . 
The foreign varnish appeared to have all worn off Mr. Franklin , now that the time had come for saying good-bye . 
Instead of replying to me in words , he put the letter which her ladyship had addressed to him into my hand . 
But there was a bit about Miss Rachel added at the end , which will account for the steadiness of Mr. Franklin 's determination , if it accounts for nothing else . 
My dear Franklin , you , in your way , must imitate my patience , and wait , as I do , for a fitter time . 
I handed the letter back , sincerely sorry for Mr. Franklin , for I knew how fond he was of my young lady ; and I saw that her mother 's account of her had cut him to the heart . 
`` You know the proverb , sir , '' was all I said to him . 
Things ca n't be much worse , Mr. Franklin , than they are now . '' 
Mr. Franklin folded up his aunt 's letter , without appearing to be much comforted by the remark which I had ventured on addressing to him . 
`` When I came here from London with that horrible Diamond , '' he said , `` I do n't believe there was a happier household in England than this . 
With that he shook me by the hand , and went out to the pony chaise . 
I followed him down the steps . 
It was very miserable to see him leaving the old place , where he had spent the happiest years of his life , in this way . 
Penelope -LRB- sadly upset by all that had happened in the house -RRB- came round crying , to bid him good-bye . 
Mr. Franklin kissed her . 
Some of the other female servants appeared , peeping after him round the corner . 
He was one of those men whom the women all like . 
At the last moment , I stopped the pony chaise , and begged as a favour that he would let us hear from him by letter . 
He did n't seem to heed what I said -- he was looking round from one thing to another , taking a sort of farewell of the old house and grounds . 
I said , holding on by the chaise , and trying to get at his future plans in that way . 
Mr. Franklin pulled his hat down suddenly over his eyes . 
says he , echoing the word after me . 
The pony started at the word , as if he had felt a Christian horror of it . 
was all I had time to say , before he was out of sight and hearing . 
With all his faults and follies , a sweet and pleasant gentleman ! 
He left a sad gap behind him , when he left my lady 's house . 
Being reminded , by all this , of what Mr. Franklin had said about our being a scattered and disunited household , my mind was led naturally to Mr. Franklin himself . 
The more I thought of him , the more uneasy I felt about his future proceedings . 
It ended in my writing , by the Sunday 's post , to his father 's valet , Mr. Jeffco -LRB- whom I had known in former years -RRB- to beg he would let me know what Mr. Franklin had settled to do , on arriving in London . 
`` Where 's the man you call Franklin Blake ? '' 
`` If you wish to inquire for my lady 's nephew , you will please mention him as Mr. Franklin Blake . '' 
`` Mr. Franklin Blake ? '' 
`` Murderer Franklin Blake would be a fitter name for him . '' 
`` He 's a murderer ! 
he 's a murderer ! 
he 's a murderer ! 
He has been the death of Rosanna Spearman ! '' 
`` He has been the death of Rosanna Spearman ? '' 
`` What do you want with Mr. Franklin Blake ? '' 
`` I want to see him . '' 
`` I have got a letter to give him . '' 
`` You ca n't see Mr. Franklin , '' I said . 
`` I must , and will , see him . '' 
`` He went to London last night . '' 
`` I expect news of Mr. Franklin Blake to-morrow . 
Give me your letter , and I 'll send it on to him by the post . 
`` I am to give it from my hands into his hands , '' she said . 
`` And I am to give it to him in no other way . '' 
`` Shall I write , and tell him what you have said ? '' 
`` Tell him I hate him . 
And you will tell him the truth . '' 
`` If he wants the letter , he must come back here , and get it from Me . '' 
The one chance left to try was the chance , which might come with the morning , of writing to Mr. Franklin Blake . 
On reaching the metropolis , Mr. Franklin had , it appeared , gone straight to his father 's residence . 
He arrived at an awkward time . 
Mr. Blake , the elder , was up to his eyes in the business of the House of Commons , and was amusing himself at home that night with the favourite parliamentary plaything which they call `` a private bill . '' 
Mr. Jeffco himself showed Mr. Franklin into his father 's study . 
`` My dear Franklin ! 
`` At six-forty , Mr. Franklin . '' 
The next morning Mr. Franklin had started for foreign parts . 
To what particular place he was bound , nobody -LRB- himself included -RRB- could presume to guess . 
We might hear of him next in Europe , Asia , Africa , or America . 
This news -- by closing up all prospect of my bringing Limping Lucy and Mr. Franklin together -- at once stopped any further progress of mine on the way to discovery . 
Penelope 's belief that her fellow-servant had destroyed herself through unrequited love for Mr. Franklin Blake , was confirmed -- and that was all . 
Whether the letter which Rosanna had left to be given to him after her death did , or did not , contain the confession which Mr. Franklin had suspected her of trying to make to him in her life-time , it was impossible to say . 
The news of Mr. Franklin 's departure from England on the Sunday morning , and the news of my lady 's arrival in London with Miss Rachel on the Monday afternoon , had reached me , as you are aware , by the Tuesday 's post . 
I am fortunate enough to be useful -LRB- in the worldly sense of the word -RRB- to Mr. Franklin Blake . 
I find my insignificant existence suddenly remembered by Mr. Franklin Blake . 
-- writes , without even an attempt at disguising that he wants something of me . 
The whim has seized him to stir up the deplorable scandal of the Moonstone : and I am to help him by writing the account of what I myself witnessed while visiting at Aunt Verinder 's house in London . 
I am to re-open wounds that Time has barely closed ; I am to recal the most intensely painful remembrances -- and this done , I am to feel myself compensated by a new laceration , in the shape of Mr. Blake 's cheque . 
With my diary , the poor labourer -LRB- who forgives Mr. Blake for insulting her -RRB- is worthy of her hire . 
It will be easy for Mr. Blake to suppress what may not prove to be sufficiently flattering in these pages to the person chiefly concerned in them . 
He has purchased my time ; but not even his wealth can purchase my conscience too . 
Added by Franklin Blake . 
But , hemmed in as I am , between Mr. Franklin Blake 's cheque on one side and my own sacred regard for truth on the other , what am I to do ? 
Unhappily , there is more , much more , which the unrelenting pecuniary pressure of Mr. Blake 's cheque obliges me to tell . 
Permit me to remind you that Mr. Franklin Blake was also in the house at the time when the Diamond was lost . '' 
Franklin Blake is a prime favourite of mine , as you are well aware . 
I have suspected Mr. Ablewhite , on grounds which abstractedly justify suspecting Mr. Blake too . 
It 's quite in his character , we will say , to be capable of stealing the Moonstone . 
The only question is , whether it was his interest to do so . '' 
`` Mr. Franklin Blake 's debts , '' I remarked , `` are matters of family notoriety . '' 
I manage Franklin Blake 's affairs , and I beg to inform you that the vast majority of his creditors -LRB- knowing his father to be a rich man -RRB- are quite content to charge interest on their debts , and to wait for their money . 
I have it on the authority of Lady Verinder herself , that her daughter was ready to marry Franklin Blake , before that infernal Indian Diamond disappeared from the house . 
But she had confessed to her mother that she loved cousin Franklin , and her mother had trusted cousin Franklin with the secret . 
So there he was , Miss Clack , with his creditors content to wait , and with the certain prospect before him of marrying an heiress . 
By all means consider him a scoundrel ; but tell me , if you please , why he should steal the Moonstone ? '' 
`` In other words , ma'am -- though he had n't the shadow of a reason for taking the Diamond -- he might have taken it , nevertheless , through natural depravity . 
Why -- even supposing he did take the Diamond -- should Franklin Blake make himself the most prominent person in the house , in trying to recover it ? 
You may tell me he cunningly did that to divert suspicion from himself . 
I answer that he had no need to divert suspicion -- because nobody suspected him . 
He first steals the Moonstone -LRB- without the slightest reason -RRB- through natural depravity ; and he then acts a part , in relation to the loss of the jewel , which there is not the slightest necessity to act , and which leads to his mortally offending the young lady who would otherwise have married him . 
That is the monstrous proposition which you are driven to assert , if you attempt to associate the disappearance of the Moonstone with Franklin Blake . 
And Franklin Blake 's innocence , as you have just seen , unanswerably asserts itself . 
`` Miss clack presents her compliments to Mr. Franklin Blake ; and , in sending him the fifth chapter of her humble narrative , begs to say that she feels quite unequal to enlarge as she could wish on an event so awful , under the circumstances , as Lady Verinder 's death . 
And may those Extracts -LRB- Miss Clack fervently hopes -RRB- sound as the blast of a trumpet in the ears of her respected kinsman , Mr. Franklin Blake . '' 
`` Mr. Franklin Blake presents his compliments to Miss Clack , and begs to thank her for the fifth chapter of her narrative . 
In returning the extracts sent with it , he will refrain from mentioning any personal objection which he may entertain to this species of literature , and will merely say that the proposed additions to the manuscript are not necessary to the fulfilment of the purpose that he has in view . '' 
She affectionately reminds Mr. Franklin Blake that she is a Christian , and that it is , therefore , quite impossible for him to offend her . 
Miss C. persists in feeling the deepest interest in Mr. Blake , and pledges herself , on the first occasion when sickness may lay him low , to offer him the use of her Extracts for the second time . 
`` Mr. Franklin Blake is sorry to disappoint Miss Clack . 
He can only repeat the instructions which he had the honour of giving her when she began her narrative . 
`` Miss Clack is extremely sorry to trouble Mr. Franklin Blake with another letter . 
Her object in writing is to know whether Mr. Blake -LRB- who prohibits everything else -RRB- prohibits the appearance of the present correspondence in Miss Clack 's narrative ? 
Some explanation of the position in which Mr. Blake 's interference has placed her as an authoress , seems due on the ground of common justice . 
`` Mr. Franklin Blake agrees to Miss Clack 's proposal , on the understanding that she will kindly consider this intimation of his consent as closing the correspondence between them . '' 
`` Miss Clack feels it an act of Christian duty -LRB- before the correspondence closes -RRB- to inform Mr. Franklin Blake that his last letter -- evidently intended to offend her -- has not succeeded in accomplishing the object of the writer . 
She affectionately requests Mr. Blake to retire to the privacy of his own room , and to consider with himself whether the training which can thus elevate a poor weak woman above the reach of insult , be not worthy of greater admiration than he is now disposed to feel for it . 
On being favoured with an intimation to that effect , Miss C. solemnly pledges herself to send back the complete series of her Extracts to Mr. Franklin Blake . '' 
And , lastly , I combatted Mr. Franklin Blake 's scruples , and induced him to be the means of transporting the Diamond to Lady Verinder 's house . 
That copy would inform them that the Moonstone was bequeathed to the daughter of Lady Verinder , and that Mr. Blake the elder , or some person appointed by him , was to place it in her hands . 
You will agree with me that the necessary information about persons in the position of Lady Verinder and Mr. Blake , would be perfectly easy information to obtain . 
One to follow anybody who went from Mr. Blake 's house to the bank . 
These commonplace precautions would readily inform them that Mr. Franklin Blake had been to the bank , and that Mr. Franklin Blake was the only person in the house who was going to visit Lady Verinder . 
I remembered that Franklin Blake had detected one of the spies , in the street -- that he had , in consequence , advanced the time of his arrival in Yorkshire by some hours -- and that -LRB- thanks to old Betteredge 's excellent advice -RRB- he had lodged the Diamond in the bank at Frizinghall , before the Indians were so much as prepared to see him in the neighbourhood . 
The Indians were undoubtedly not aware of what Mr. Franklin Blake had done with the Diamond -- for we find them making their first mistake , on the first night of Mr. Blake 's arrival at his aunt 's house . '' 
To make their attempt on the Diamond while it was under the control of Mr. Franklin Blake , who had shown already that he could suspect and outwit them ? 
When I heard the story of the Colonel and the Diamond , later in the evening , I felt so sure about the risk Mr. Franklin Blake had run -LRB- they would have certainly attacked him , if he had not happened to ride back to Lady Verinder 's in the company of other people -RRB- ; and I was so strongly convinced of the worse risks still , in store for Miss Verinder , that I recommended following the Colonel 's plan , and destroying the identity of the gem by having it cut into separate stones . 
`` Miss Verinder begs to decline entering into any correspondence with Mr. Franklin Blake . '' 
I said , pointing to the well-remembered book on his knee , `` has Robinson Crusoe informed you , this evening , that you might expect to see Franklin Blake ? '' 
`` By the lord Harry , Mr. Franklin ! '' 
`` Here 's the bit , Mr. Franklin ! '' 
If that is n't as much as to say : ` Expect the sudden appearance of Mr. Franklin Blake ' -- there 's no meaning in the English language ! '' 
`` Walk in , Mr. Franklin , '' he said , opening the door behind him , with his quaint old-fashioned bow . 
I 'll cook your dinner ; and the gardener 's wife will make your bed -- and if there 's a bottle of our famous Latour claret left in the cellar , down your throat , Mr. Franklin , that bottle shall go . 
Lord , Mr. Franklin , do n't you know women by this time better than that ? 
`` Very well , Mr. Franklin . 
For the rest of that woman 's life , Mr. Franklin , I never had to cook my dinner again ! 
`` I had hoped , Mr. Franklin , to hear that things were all smooth and pleasant again between you and Miss Rachel . 
`` Hotherstone lives , Mr. Franklin , on his own freehold . '' 
There stands the house , and here stands Mr. Franklin Blake -- and , Damme , if one of them is n't turning his back on the other , and going to sleep in a lodging ! '' 
`` The next thing you 'll do , Mr. Franklin , will be to pay me back that seven-and-sixpence you borrowed of me when you were a boy . '' 
`` Fine evening for a walk , Mr. Franklin , '' he said , as if we had just accidentally encountered each other at that moment . 
`` Much obliged to you for your kindness , Mr. Franklin . 
`` The Moonstone , Mr. Franklin . 
`` Let the Diamond be , Mr. Franklin ! 
`` The Sergeant wo n't help you , Mr. Franklin . '' 
He has got a little cottage at Dorking ; and he 's up to his eyes in the growing of roses . 
I have it in his own handwriting , Mr. Franklin . 
He has grown the white moss rose , without budding it on the dog-rose first . 
`` You might trust to worse than me , Mr. Franklin -- I can tell you that , '' he said a little sharply . 
`` Mere boasting , Mr. Franklin , '' returned the old man obstinately . 
`` There is no ill-feeling in this , Mr. Franklin , on your side -- is there ? '' 
`` If I am doing wrong to help you , Mr. Franklin , '' he exclaimed , `` all I can say is -- I am as innocent of seeing it as the babe unborn ! 
`` You may set that doubt at rest , Mr. Franklin , whenever you please . '' 
`` The same , Mr. Franklin . '' 
`` There 's the Farm , Mr. Franklin ! '' 
`` As early , Mr. Franklin , as you like . '' 
`` I complain of a new disease , Mr. Franklin , of my own inventing . 
It will lay hold of you at Cobb 's Hole , Mr. Franklin . 
`` This gentleman 's name , '' answered Betteredge -LRB- with a strong emphasis on gentleman -RRB- , `` is Mr. Franklin Blake . '' 
`` I ca n't find out what she saw in his face . 
I ca n't guess what she heard in his voice . '' 
The address was written as follows : -- `` For Franklin Blake , Esq. . 
To be given into his own hands -LRB- and not to be trusted to anyone else -RRB- , by Lucy Yolland . '' 
`` I ca n't stand it any longer , Mr. Franklin . 
Lord save us , Mr. Franklin , here is the secret that puzzled everybody , from the great Cuff downwards , ready and waiting , as one may say , to show itself to you ! 
`` We can go round by the coast , Mr. Franklin , '' said Betteredge ; `` and get to the quicksand in that way , with plenty of time to spare . 
`` But she died a dreadful death , poor soul -- and I feel a kind of call on me , Mr. Franklin , to humour that fancy of hers . 
`` Now , Mr. Franklin , there 's one thing certain , at any rate , '' said Betteredge , throwing the nightgown down on the table between us , and pointing to it as if it was a living creature that could hear him . 
`` He 's a liar , to begin with . '' 
`` Take a drop more grog , Mr. Franklin , and you 'll get over the weakness of believing in facts ! 
`` There 's no denying that , Mr. Franklin . 
`` You will be cleared of this , Mr. Franklin , beyond all doubt . 
`` Please to go back to the letter , Mr. Franklin . 
Ah , Mr. Franklin , you wore my roses oftener than either you or she thought ! 
``` I was with Miss Rachel , and Mr. Franklin , all yesterday morning , ' Penelope said , ` mixing the colours , while they finished the door . 
And Mr. Franklin shook his head , and said it would n't be dry in less than twelve hours . 
`` I understand you , Mr. Franklin , '' he answered . 
` If the last person who was in the room is the person to be suspected , ' I thought to myself , ` the thief is not Penelope , but Mr. Franklin Blake ! ' 
`` Not a glimmer of light so far , Mr. Franklin , '' said the old man , taking off his heavy tortoiseshell spectacles , and pushing Rosanna Spearman 's confession a little away from him . 
In the meantime , Mr. Franklin -- I do n't want to hurry you -- but would you mind telling me , in one word , whether you see your way out of this dreadful mess yet ? '' 
`` And if the Sergeant wo n't leave his retirement at Dorking -- '' `` He wo n't , Mr. Franklin ! '' 
`` By-the-bye , Mr. Franklin , you will be sorry to hear that the little doctor has never recovered that illness he caught , going home from the birthday dinner . 
`` Well , Mr. Franklin , his appearance is against him , to begin with . 
`` There 's a bottom of good sense , Mr. Franklin , in our conduct to our mothers , when they first start us on the journey of life . 
`` What is his name ? '' 
The letter ended in these terms : `` You have no need to be angry , Mr. Franklin , even if I did feel some little triumph at knowing that I held all your prospects in life in my own hands . 
Note ; by Franklin Blake . 
I wondered in myself which it would be hardest to do , if things went on in this manner -- to bear Mr. Franklin Blake 's indifference to me , or to jump into the quicksand and end it for ever in that way ? 
Why did n't I call out , ` Mr. Franklin , I have got something to say to you ; it concerns yourself , and you must , and shall , hear it ? ' 
You never uttered a word of that , Mr. Franklin ; but you said it all to me , nevertheless ! 
The best thing that can happen for your advantage , Rosanna , will be for Mr. Franklin 's visit here to come to an end . 
It 's my belief that he wo n't be long now before he leaves the house . '' 
If she does that , Mr. Franklin will be the next to find a reason for going away , you may depend on it ! ' 
` Do you mean to say Mr. Franklin will go with her ? ' 
``` Only too gladly , if she would let him ; but she wo n't . 
He has been made to feel her temper ; he is in her black books too -- and that after having done all he can to help her , poor fellow ! 
If they do n't make it up before to-morrow , you will see Miss Rachel go one way , and Mr. Franklin another . 
Where he may betake himself to I ca n't say . 
But he will never stay here , Rosanna , after Miss Rachel has left us . ' 
I am loth to distress you , Rosanna ; but do n't run away with the notion that Mr. Franklin is ever likely to quarrel with her . 
He 's a great deal too fond of her for that ! ' 
`` Then , Mr. Franklin , I shall have two reasons for making another attempt to say the words to you which I have not said yet . 
`` There is nothing to guide you , Mr. Franklin , '' he answered . 
`` If they will put that poor creature 's letter out of my head , Mr. Franklin , they may do anything else they like with me . 
`` Why it 's the great defect of your character , Mr. Franklin , that you only drink with your dinner , and never touch a drop of liquor afterwards ! '' 
It is quite possible -- '' `` Wait a bit , Mr. Franklin . 
`` I see your drift now , Mr. Franklin ! '' 
Excuse me for saying it , Mr. Franklin , but this business has so upset you , that you 're not fit yet to judge for yourself . 
`` Franklin Blake , '' said the old gentleman , `` this is a very serious matter , in more respects than one . 
If you were anybody else but Franklin Blake , and if this matter was one atom less serious than it really is , I should refuse pointblank . 
`` Franklin ! '' 
Oh , Franklin ! 
Franklin ! 
`` I know , Mr. Franklin , that you have got at the truth at last . 
Come , come , Mr. Franklin ! 
`` I have often thought of you , Mr. Blake , '' he said ; `` and I am heartily glad to see you again at last . 
`` I require no memorandums , Mr. Blake , '' he said , stiffly enough . 
`` A very pleasant dinner , Mr. Blake , was n't it ? '' 
`` I had it on my mind -- I really had it on my mind , Mr. Blake , to speak to you . 
`` That is , I hope , to be said of most men , Mr. Blake . 
`` It may not , perhaps , be a final answer , Mr. Blake . 
My father was an Englishman ; but my mother -- We are straying away from our subject , Mr. Blake ; and it is my fault . 
`` In my place , Mr. Blake , you would have remembered that Mr. Candy had taken you into his employment , under circumstances which made you his debtor for life . 
An hysterical relief , Mr. Blake -- nothing more ! 
`` It is the only way I can see , Mr. Blake , of properly introducing to you what I have to say next . 
-- Do you see , Mr. Blake , what I am coming to at last ? '' 
`` You shall hear , Mr. Blake . 
`` Quite impossible , Mr. Blake . '' 
He was so miserably ill , Mr. Blake ! 
and he was so helplessly dependent upon Me ! 
`` I am sorry to have raised your expectations , Mr. Blake , only to disappoint them , '' he said . 
`` I am really and truly sorry , Mr. Blake , that I can be of no use to you . '' 
I must tell him the truth ! '' 
`` I have no right , Mr. Blake , and no wish , '' he said , `` to intrude myself into your private affairs . 
`` Stop , Mr. Blake . 
`` Do you mind resting a little , Mr. Blake ? '' 
`` Mr. Blake ! '' 
`` No , Mr. Blake -- I shall be dead . 
There is no disguising , Mr. Blake , that you interest me . 
`` I am absolutely certain , Mr. Blake , of one thing -- I have got what Mr. Candy wanted to say to you this morning , in the notes that I took at my patient 's bedside . 
`` This is far too serious a matter to be explained in a hurry , Mr. Blake . 
`` I make no apology , Mr. Blake , for the place in which I am receiving you , '' he said . 
`` Willingly , Mr. Blake ! 
`` Betteredge was perfectly right , Mr. Blake . 
`` Mr. Blake , '' he said , `` if you read those notes now , by the light which my questions and your answers have thrown on them , you will make two astounding discoveries , concerning yourself . 
`` Every medical man commits that act of treachery , Mr. Blake , in the course of his practice . 
On this , the disconnected words , and fragments of sentences , which had dropped from Mr. Candy in his delirium , appeared as follows : `` ... Mr. Franklin Blake ... and agreeable ... down a peg ... medicine ... confesses ... sleep at night ... tell him ... out of order ... medicine ... he tells me ... and groping in the dark mean one and the same thing ... all the company at the dinner-table ... I say groping after sleep ... nothing but medicine ... he says ... leading the blind ... know what it means . 
witty ... a night 's rest in spite of his teeth ... wants sleep ... Lady Verinder 's medicine chest ... five-and-twenty minims ... without his knowing it ... to-morrow morning ... Well , Mr. Blake ... medicine to-day ... never ... without it ... out , Mr. Candy ... excellent ... without it ... down on him ... truth ... something besides ... excellent ... dose of laudanum , sir ... bed ... what ... medicine now . '' 
`` ... Mr. Franklin Blake is clever and agreeable , but he wants taking down a peg when he talks of medicine . 
He confesses that he has been suffering from want of sleep at night . 
I tell him that his nerves are out of order , and that he ought to take medicine . 
He tells me that taking medicine and groping in the dark mean one and the same thing . 
I say to him , you are groping after sleep , and nothing but medicine can help you to find it . 
He says to me , I have heard of the blind leading the blind , and now I know what it means . 
Witty -- but I can give him a night 's rest in spite of his teeth . 
He really wants sleep ; and Lady Verinder 's medicine chest is at my disposal . 
Give him five-and-twenty minims of laudanum to-night , without his knowing it ; and then call to-morrow morning . 
` Well , Mr. Blake , will you try a little medicine to-day ? 
`` Useless , Mr. Blake ! 
`` You shall do this , Mr. Blake , '' he answered . 
Observe , Mr. Blake , before you begin , that I am now referring you to one of the greatest of English physiologists . 
I believe , Mr. Blake , I have now stated the question , on both sides of it , as fairly as I can , within the limits that I have imposed on myself . 
`` The common error about opium , Mr. Blake ! 
`` It is possible , Mr. Blake -- I dare not say more -- that your idea of preserving the Diamond led , by a natural sequence , to the idea of hiding the Diamond , and that the place in which you hid it was somewhere in your bedroom . 
`` Mr. Blake ! 
What more , Mr. Blake , either logically or legally , can be said for yours ? '' 
It is absolutely necessary , Mr. Blake , to replace every article of furniture in that part of the house which may now be put away . 
`` Am I right , Mr. Blake , in fancying -LRB- from one or two things which have dropped from you -RRB- that you felt no common interest in Miss Verinder , in former times ? '' 
`` If I can do you this little service , Mr. Blake , I shall feel it like a last gleam of sunshine , falling on the evening of a long and clouded day . '' 
If she consents to assist the experiment , she consents of her own free will , and not as a favour to Mr. Franklin Blake or to me . 
My bad night made it late in the morning , before I could get to Mr. Franklin Blake . 
I found him stretched on the sofa , breakfasting on brandy and soda water , and a dry biscuit . 
`` I am beginning , as well as you could possibly wish , '' he said . 
` You have done a wonderful number of foolish things in the course of your life , Mr. Franklin ; but this tops them all ! ' 
I left Mr. Blake , to go my rounds among my patients ; feeling the better and the happier even for the short interview that I had had with him . 
Mr. Blake has given me a new interest in life . 
He would have been mortified if I had not informed him of the experiment which I am going to try with Mr. Blake . 
And I hardly know what undersirable results might not have happened , if I had taken him into my confidence . 
She tells me , in the prettiest manner , that my letter has satisfied her of Mr. Blake 's innocence , without the slightest need -LRB- so far as she is concerned -RRB- of putting my assertion to the proof . 
It is plain that she has loved him , throughout the estrangement between them . 
In more than one place , the rapture of discovering that he has deserved to be loved , breaks its way innocently through the stoutest formalities of pen and ink , and even defies the stronger restraint still of writing to a stranger . 
One of them prevents me from showing it to Mr. Franklin Blake . 
I am authorised to tell him that Miss Verinder willingly consents to place her house at our disposal ; and , that said , I am desired to add no more . 
What she has forbidden me to tell Mr. Franklin Blake , she is -LRB- as I interpret it -RRB- eager to tell him with her own lips , before he is put to the test which is to vindicate his character in the eyes of other people . 
I understand and admire this generous anxiety to acquit him , without waiting until his innocence may , or may not , be proved . 
It is the atonement that she is longing to make , poor girl , after having innocently and inevitably wronged him . 
I have no sort of doubt that the agitation which a meeting between them would produce on both sides -- the old feelings which it would revive , the new hopes which it would awaken -- would , in their effect on the mind of Mr. Blake , be almost certainly fatal to the success of our experiment . 
It is hard enough , as things are , to reproduce in him the conditions as they existed , or nearly as they existed , last year . 
With new interests and new emotions to agitate him , the attempt would be simply useless . 
And yet , knowing this , I can not find it in my heart to disappoint her . 
I must try if I can discover some new arrangement , before post-time , which will allow me to say Yes to Miss Verinder , without damage to the service which I have bound myself to render to Mr. Franklin Blake . 
Mr. Blake 's report of the night is the same as before . 
He has had some intervals of broken sleep , and no more . 
But he feels it less to-day , having slept after yesterday 's dinner . 
This after-dinner sleep is the result , no doubt , of the ride which I advised him to take . 
I fear I shall have to curtail his restorative exercise in the fresh air . 
He must not be too well ; he must not be too ill . 
He has not heard yet from Mr. Bruff . 
After first stating the objections that there are to a meeting between Mr. Blake and herself , before the experiment is tried , I have suggested that she should so time her journey as to arrive at the house privately , on the evening when we make the attempt . 
At that hour , I have undertaken to see Mr. Blake safely into his bedchamber ; and so to leave Miss Verinder free to occupy her own rooms until the time comes for administering the laudanum . 
On the next morning , she shall show Mr. Blake -LRB- if she likes -RRB- her correspondence with me , and shall satisfy him in that way that he was acquitted in her estimation , before the question of his innocence was put to the proof . 
-- Late again , in calling on Mr. Franklin Blake . 
If I let myself sink , it may end in my becoming useless to Mr. Blake at the time when he wants me most . 
Mr. Blake had slept badly again , and he felt the loss of rest this morning more than he had felt it yet . 
I asked next if he had heard from Mr. Bruff . 
A letter had reached him that morning Mr. Bruff expressed the strongest disapproval of the course which his friend and client was taking under my advice . 
It was quite plain -- even if Mr. Blake had not made it plainer still by reporting the substance of the letter , instead of reading what was actually written -- that distrust of me was at the bottom of all this . 
I asked Mr. Blake if his friend 's protest had shaken him . 
He answered emphatically , that it had not produced the slightest effect on his mind . 
It ends , Mr. Ezra Jennings , in a conjuring trick being performed on Mr. Franklin Blake , by a doctor 's assistant with a bottle of laudanum -- and by the living jingo , I 'm appointed , in my old age , to be conjuror 's boy ! '' 
Mr. Blake burst out laughing . 
Mr. Blake made me a sign to take him at his word . 
Also , the bedroom occupied last June by Mr. Franklin Blake . '' 
`` I wish to know , '' he began , `` whether I may , or may not , wash my hands -- '' `` You may decidedly , '' said Mr. Blake . 
But , as to Mr. Franklin 's bed-room -LRB- if that is to be put back to what it was before -RRB- , I want to know who is responsible for keeping it in a perpetual state of litter , no matter how often it may be set right -- his trousers here , his towels there , and his French novels everywhere . 
I say , who is responsible for untidying the tidiness of Mr. Franklin 's room , him or me ? '' 
Mr. Blake declared that he would assume the whole responsibility with the greatest pleasure . 
I accepted Mr. Blake 's proposal ; and Betteredge made a last entry in the pocket-book to that effect . 
I respectfully beg to thank you , sir , for overlooking the case of the stuffed buzzard , and the other case of the Cupid 's wing -- as also for permitting me to wash my hands of all responsibility in respect of the pins on the carpet , and the litter in Mr. Franklin 's room . 
`` Implicitly , '' answered Mr. Blake . 
Mr. Blake 's report of himself , this morning , was the same as before . 
-- Mr. Blake is beginning to feel his continued restlessness at night . 
On our way to the house , this morning , he consulted me , with some nervous impatience and irresolution , about a letter -LRB- forwarded to him from London -RRB- which he had received from Sergeant Cuff . 
He acknowledges the receipt -LRB- through his housekeeper -RRB- of a card and message which Mr. Blake left at his residence near Dorking , and announces his return to England as likely to take place in a week or less . 
In the meantime , he requests to be favoured with Mr. Blake 's reasons for wishing to speak to him -LRB- as stated in the message -RRB- on the subject of the Moonstone . 
If Mr. Blake can convict him of having made any serious mistake , in the course of his last year 's inquiry concerning the Diamond , he will consider it a duty -LRB- after the liberal manner in which he was treated by the late Lady Verinder -RRB- to place himself at that gentleman 's disposal . 
If not , he begs permission to remain in his retirement , surrounded by the peaceful floricultural attractions of a country life . 
After reading the letter , I had no hesitation in advising Mr. Blake to inform Sergeant Cuff , in reply , of all that had happened since the inquiry was suspended last year , and to leave him to draw his own conclusions from the plain facts . 
He would be a valuable witness to have , in any case ; and , if I proved to be wrong in believing the Diamond to be hidden in Mr. Blake 's room , his advice might be of great importance , at a future stage of the proceedings over which I could exercise no control . 
This last consideration appeared to decide Mr. Blake . 
He promised to follow my advice . 
Look where we might , we found , as Mr. Blake had foretold , that the work was advancing as rapidly and as intelligently as it was possible to desire . 
Having congratulated Betteredge on the progress that he had made -LRB- he persisted in taking notes , every time I opened my lips ; declining , at the same time , to pay the slightest attention to anything said by Mr. Blake -RRB- ; and having promised to return for a second visit of inspection in a day or two , we prepared to leave the house , going out by the back way . 
Mr. Blake walked on to wait for me in the garden , while I accompanied Betteredge into his room . 
`` In respect to this hocus-pocus of yours , sir , with the laudanum and Mr. Franklin Blake , '' he began . 
I met Mr. Blake returning to the house . 
`` Betteredge has played his last card : he has made another prophetic discovery in Robinson Crusoe . 
Mr. Blake has had the worst night that he has passed yet . 
I have been obliged , greatly against my will , to prescribe for him . 
Men of his sensitive organisation are fortunately quick in feeling the effect of remedial measures . 
Otherwise , I should be inclined to fear that he will be totally unfit for the experiment , when the time comes to try it . 
Mr. Blake 's nervous suffering is greatly allayed . 
He slept a little last night . 
As Mr. Blake foretold , Betteredge raised no further obstacles . 
Until Monday comes , there is nothing to be done but to watch Mr. Blake carefully , and to keep him , if possible , in the same state in which I find him to-day . 
In the meanwhile , I have prevailed on him to write to Mr. Bruff , making a point of it that he shall be present as one of the witnesses . 
Mr. Blake has also written to Sergeant Cuff ; and I have sent a line to Miss Verinder . 
Mr. Blake is not so well again to-day . 
At two this morning , he confesses that he opened the drawer in which his cigars are put away . 
He only succeeded in locking it up again by a violent effort . 
His next proceeding , in case of temptation , was to throw the key out of window . 
-- Mr. Blake and I took a long drive in an open carriage . 
I dined with him at the hotel . 
To my great relief -- for I found him in an over-wrought , over-excited state , this morning -- he had two hours ' sound sleep on the sofa after dinner . 
If he has another bad night , now -- I am not afraid of the consequences . 
The first and foremost question , is the question of Mr. Blake 's health . 
So far as it is possible for me to judge , he promises -LRB- physically speaking -RRB- to be quite as susceptible to the action of the opium to-night , as he was at this time last year . 
He is , this afternoon , in a state of nervous sensitiveness which just stops short of nervous irritation . 
He changes colour readily ; his hand is not quite steady ; and he starts at chance noises , and at unexpected appearances of persons and things . 
While I write these lines , Mr. Blake is amusing himself at the billiard table in the inner hall , practising different strokes in the game , as he was accustomed to practise them when he was a guest in this house in June last . 
Let me set this right , before I close these leaves for the present , and join Mr. Blake . 
I will endeavour , in my relations with Mrs. Merridew , to emulate the moderation which Betteredge displays in his relations with me . 
He received us to-day , portentously arrayed in his best black suit , and his stiffest white cravat . 
Whenever he looks my way , he remembers that I have not read Robinson Crusoe since I was a child , and he respectfully pities me . 
Yesterday , also , Mr. Blake had the lawyer 's answer . 
Betteredge has just come in , to say that Mr. Blake has asked for me . 
-- We have been all over the refurnished rooms and staircases again ; and we have had a pleasant stroll in the shrubbery which was Mr. Blake 's favourite walk when he was here last . 
In this way , I hope to revive the old impressions of places and things as vividly as possible in his mind . 
This is a small dose to have produced the results which followed -- even in the case of a person so sensitive as Mr. Blake . 
On this occasion , Mr. Blake knows beforehand that he is going to take the laudanum -- which is equivalent , physiologically speaking , to his having -LRB- unconsciously to himself -RRB- a certain capacity in him to resist the effects . 
A little before nine o'clock , I prevailed on Mr. Blake to accompany me to his bedroom ; stating , as a reason , that I wished him to look round it , for the last time , in order to make quite sure that nothing had been forgotten in the refurnishing of the room . 
I had previously arranged with Betteredge , that the bedchamber prepared for Mr. Bruff should be the next room to Mr. Blake 's , and that I should be informed of the lawyer 's arrival by a knock at the door . 
Being well used to producing this effect on strangers , I did not hesitate a moment in saying what I wanted to say , before the lawyer found his way into Mr. Blake 's room . 
`` Miss Verinder has probably told you , that I wish her presence in the house -LRB- and Mrs. Merridew 's presence of course -RRB- , to be kept a secret from Mr. Blake , until my experiment on him has been tried first ? '' 
she asked , giving free expression , to her one dominant interest -- the interest in Mr. Blake . 
`` Mr. Franklin wishes to know where you are . 
Mr. Blake might make his appearance in search of me , unless I went to him at once in his own room . 
Miss Verinder went back to the sitting-room , and I went upstairs to Mr. Blake . 
To my surprise , I found him alone ; restlessly pacing his room , and a little irritated at being left by himself . 
He pointed to the closed door of communication between the two rooms . 
Mr. Bruff had looked in on him , for a moment ; had attempted to renew his protest against our proceedings ; and had once more failed to produce the smallest impression on Mr. Blake . 
Mr. Blake would perhaps kindly make allowance for the old-fashioned habits of a practical man . 
asked Mr. Blake impatiently . 
Inquiries which I had made , at various times , of Betteredge and Mr. Blake , had led me to the conclusion that the dose of laudanum given by Mr. Candy could not possibly have been administered before eleven . 
Mr. Blake idly turned over the books on his bedroom table . 
I left Mr. Blake to the composing influence of Standard Literature , and occupied myself in making this entry in my journal . 
At eleven o'clock , I rang the bell for Betteredge , and told Mr. Blake that he might at last prepare himself for bed . 
I went back into Mr. Blake 's room , and knocked at the door of communication . 
`` But I am going to prepare the laudanum for Mr. Blake ; and I must request you to be present , and to see what I do . '' 
I must put you to the inconvenience of remaining in Mr. Blake 's room , and of waiting to see what happens . '' 
`` My room , or Mr. Blake 's room -- it does n't matter which ; I can go on with my papers anywhere . 
Before I could answer , Mr. Blake addressed himself to the lawyer , speaking from his bed . 
he asked . 
`` A cow is a very useful animal , Mr. Blake , '' said the lawyer . 
With that reply , he followed me out of the room , still keeping his papers in his hand . 
We found Miss Verinder , pale and agitated , restlessly pacing her sitting-room from end to end . 
Miss Verinder drew me aside , and reverted instantly to her one all-absorbing interest -- the interest in Mr. Blake . 
`` How is he now ? '' 
she asked . 
`` Is he nervous ? 
is he out of temper ? 
she answered fervently . 
One look at her face told me that I could trust her . 
Followed by Mr. Bruff and Betteredge , I went back to Mr. Blake 's room . 
We found him moving restlessly from side to side of the bed , and wondering irritably whether he was to have the laudanum that night . 
In the presence of the two witnesses , I gave him the dose , and shook up his pillows , and told him to lie down again quietly and wait . 
His bed , provided with light chintz curtains , was placed , with the head against the wall of the room , so as to leave a good open space on either side of it . 
On one side , I drew the curtains completely -- and in the part of the room thus screened from his view , I placed Mr. Bruff and Betteredge , to wait for the result . 
He forgot that I was performing a conjuring trick on Mr. Franklin Blake ; he forgot that I had upset the house from top to bottom ; he forgot that I had not read Robinson Crusoe since I was a child . 
Looking next towards Mr. Blake , I found him as restless as ever in his bed ; fretfully wondering why the influence of the laudanum had not begun to assert itself yet . 
To tell him , in his present humour , that the more he fidgetted and wondered , the longer he would delay the result for which we were now waiting , would have been simply useless . 
The wiser course to take was to dismiss the idea of the opium from his mind , by leading him insensibly to think of something else . 
With this view , I encouraged him to talk to me ; contriving so to direct the conversation , on my side , as to lead it back again to the subject which had engaged us earlier in the evening -- the subject of the Diamond . 
I took care to revert to those portions of the story of the Moonstone , which related to the transport of it from London to Yorkshire ; to the risk which Mr. Blake had run in removing it from the bank at Frizinghall ; and to the unexpected appearance of the Indians at the house , on the evening of the birthday . 
And I purposely assumed , in referring to these events , to have misunderstood much of what Mr. Blake himself had told me a few hours since . 
In this way , I set him talking on the subject with which it was now vitally important to fill his mind -- without allowing him to suspect that I was making him talk for a purpose . 
Little by little , he became so interested in putting me right that he forgot to fidget in the bed . 
His mind was far away from the question of the opium , at the all-important time when his eyes first told me that the opium was beginning to lay its hold on his brain . 
At this time , no unpractised eyes would have detected any change in him . 
The sublime intoxication of opium gleamed in his eyes ; the dew of a stealthy perspiration began to glisten on his face . 
In five minutes more , the talk which he still kept up with me , failed in coherence . 
He held steadily to the subject of the Diamond ; but he ceased to complete his sentences . 
If Mr. Blake gave us the chance of following him , it was vitally necessary to follow him without noise . 
Then , he suddenly threw the bed clothes off him . 
He put one leg out of bed . 
He waited . 
`` I wish I had never taken it out of the bank , '' he said to himself . 
The first of these objects was to prove , that Mr. Blake entered this room , and took the Diamond , last year , acting unconsciously and irresponsibly , under the influence of opium . 
I told Mr. Blake from the first , that our complete success in this matter , depended on our completely reproducing in him the physical and moral conditions of last year -- and I warned him that this was the next thing to a downright impossibility . 
You have done Franklin Blake an inestimable service . 
`` Your theory is that Franklin Blake hid the Moonstone in his room . 
`` I may hear , when I return , that a discovery has been made -- and it may be of the greatest importance that I should have Franklin Blake at hand to appeal to , if necessary . 
I intend to tell him , as soon as he wakes , that he must return with me to London . 
I went to the sofa to look at Mr. Blake . 
He had not moved since I had laid him down and made his bed -- he lay locked in a deep and quiet sleep . 
While I was still looking at him , I heard the bedroom door softly opened . 
Once more , Miss Verinder appeared on the threshold , in her pretty summer dress . 
`` Do me a last favour , '' she whispered . 
`` Let me watch him with you . '' 
I hesitated -- not in the interests of propriety ; only in the interest of her night 's rest . 
She came close to me , and took my hand . 
`` I ca n't sleep ; I ca n't even sit still , in my own room , '' she said . 
She drew a chair to the foot of the sofa . 
She looked at him , in a silent ecstasy of happiness , till the tears rose in her eyes . 
She dried her eyes , and said she would fetch her work . 
She fetched her work , and never did a single stitch of it . 
It lay in her lap -- she was not even able to look away from him long enough to thread her needle . 
One of us absorbed in his writing ; the other absorbed in her love . 
Hour after hour , he lay in his deep sleep . 
The light of the new day grew and grew in the room , and still he never moved . 
I was obliged to leave her alone with him for a little while . 
I said I would go up-stairs , and fetch another pillow for him out of his room . 
In a little while , I was able to venture back , and let her see me again . 
I found her at the head of the sofa , when I returned . 
She was just touching his forehead with her lips . 
I shook my head as soberly as I could , and pointed to her chair . 
She looked back at me with a bright smile , and a charming colour in her face . 
`` You would have done it , '' she whispered , `` in my place ! '' 
He is beginning to move for the first time . 
She has so placed herself that when his eyes first open , they must open on her face . 
I dare not trust myself to write down the kind words that have been said to me -- especially by Miss Verinder and Mr. Blake . 
Mr. Blake is to write , and tell me what happens in London . 
`` Explosions , Mr. Blake , are infinitely milder than they were . 
Gooseberry is one of the sharpest boys in London , Mr. Blake , in spite of his eyes . '' 
He 's as quick as lightning , '' pursued Mr. Bruff , addressing me in a whisper . 
`` Mr. Blake ! 
`` I thought I would look in here , Mr. Blake , on the chance of your being in town , before I wrote to Yorkshire , '' said the Sergeant . 
Not the first mess , Mr. Blake , which has distinguished my professional career ! 
`` I beg your pardon , Mr. Blake , '' rejoined the Sergeant . 
Now tell me , Mr. Blake , how the case stands since you wrote to me last . '' 
Wait to open the envelope , Mr. Blake , till you have got at the truth . 
`` Yes , Mr. Blake , the person named in the letter . 
`` I beg your pardon , Mr. Blake , '' said the Sergeant . 
You shall hear the substance , Mr. Blake , of what he told me while you were out of the room . 
You were present , I think , when he mentioned that he held on behind the cab , and ran after it ? '' 
He described that person , Mr. Blake , without any prompting from me , as having a dark face , like the face of an Indian . '' 
`` Well , Mr. Blake , he saw the sailor reading the newspaper at one table , and the mechanic reading the newspaper at another . 
The Wheel of Fortune is a very respectable house , Mr. Blake ; famous for its porter and porkpies . '' 
There you have the state of the case , Mr. Blake , as it stands at the present time . '' 
`` Not at all , Mr. Blake . 
`` Mr. Blake ! '' 
`` He 's pulling off his wig ! '' 
`` He 's pulled off his beard ! '' 
He 's washing off his complexion now ! '' 
`` Read the name , Mr. Blake , that I have written inside . '' 
To Franklin Blake , Esq. . 
A superb woman , Mr. Blake , of the sort that are not to be trifled with -- the sort with the light complexion and the Roman nose . 
-- Dear Mr. Franklin Blake , you will anticipate the sad news I have to tell you , on finding your letter to Ezza Jennings returned to you , unopened , in this enclosure . 
`` I am indebted to Mr. Franklin Blake , '' he said , `` for having seen some happy days . 
Do n't distress him , Mr. Candy -- do n't distress him . '' 
`` Give those , '' he said , `` to Mr. Franklin Blake . 
In years to come , he may feel an interest in looking back at what is written there . '' 
`` I wo n't distress him ! 
I wo n't distress him ! '' 
I remain , dear Mr. Franklin Blake , truly yours , Thomas Candy . 
The fact to which I allude is -- the marriage of Miss Rachel and Mr. Franklin Blake . 
so had Mr. Franklin ! -RRB- 
that might yet be Mr. Franklin 's case , too ! -RRB- 
I scored the bit about the Child with my pencil , and put a morsel of paper for a mark to keep the place : `` Lie you there , '' I said , `` till the marriage of Mr. Franklin and Miss Rachel is some months older -- and then we 'll see ! '' 
It was not till this present month of November , eighteen hundred and fifty , that Mr. Franklin came into my room , in high good spirits , and said , `` Betteredge ! 
`` It decidedly concerns the family , '' says Mr. Franklin . 
`` She has a great deal to do with it , '' says Mr. Franklin , beginning to look a little surprised . 
Mr. Franklin stared like a person thunderstruck . 
he asked . 
Here was a chance of reading that domestic bit about the child which I had marked on the day of Mr. Franklin 's marriage ! 
I read those miraculous words with an emphasis which did them justice , and then I looked him severely in the face . 
says Mr. Franklin , with equal solemnity , `` I 'm convinced at last . '' 
He shook hands with me -- and I felt that I had converted him . 
