When the division above spoken of was first contemplated , in those stormy days in which gallant men were still combating reform ministers , if not with hope , still with spirit , the battle was fought by none more bravely than by John Newbold Gresham of Greshamsbury , the member for Barsetshire . 
Fate , however , and the Duke of Wellington were adverse , and in the following parliament , John Newbold Gresham was only member for East Barsetshire . 
The father 's services had been too recent , too well appreciated , too thoroughly in unison with the feelings of those around him to allow of any other choice ; and in this way young Frank Gresham found himself member for East Barsetshire , although the very men who elected him knew that they had but slender ground for trusting him with their suffrages . 
Frank Gresham , though then only twenty-four years of age , was a married man , and a father . 
He had already chosen a wife , and by his choice had given much ground of distrust to the men of East Barsetshire . 
He had married no other than Lady Arabella de Courcy , the sister of the great whig earl who lived at Courcy Castle in the west , that earl who not only had voted for the Reform Bill , but had been infamously active in bringing over other young peers so to vote , and whose name therefore stank in the nostrils of the staunch Tory squires of the county . 
Not only had Frank Gresham so wedded , but having thus improperly and unpatriotically chosen a wife , he had added to his sin by becoming recklessly intimate with his wife 's relations . 
It is true , that he still called himself a Tory , belonged to the club of which his father had been one of the most honoured members , and in the days of the great battle got his head broken in a row , on the right side ; but , nevertheless , it was felt by the good men , true and blue of East Barsetshire , that a constant sojourner at Courcy Castle could not be regarded as a consistent Tory . 
When , however , his father died , that broken head served him in good stead : his sufferings in the cause were made the most of ; these , in unison with his father 's merits , turned the scale , and it was accordingly decided , at a meeting held at the George and Dragon at Barchester , that Frank Gresham should fill his father 's shoes . 
But Frank Gresham could not fill his father 's shoes ; they were too big for him . 
He did become member for East Barsetshire ; but he was such a member -- so lukewarm , so indifferent so prone to associate with the enemies of the good cause , so little willing to fight the good fight , that he soon disgusted those who most dearly loved the memory of the old squire . 
De Courcy Castle in those days had great allurements for a young man , and all those allurements were made the most of to win over young Gresham . 
His wife , who was a year or two older than himself , was a fashionable woman , with thorough Whig tastes and aspirations , such as became the daughter of a great Whig earl ; she cared for politics , or thought that she cared for them , more than her husband did : for a month or two previous to her engagement she had been attached to the court , and had been made to believe that much of the policy of England 's rulers depended on the political intrigues of England 's women . 
As a very young man , Frank Gresham found the life to which he was thus introduced agreeable enough . 
He consoled himself as best he might for the blue looks with which he was greeted by his own party , and took his revenge by consorting more thoroughly than ever with his political adversaries . 
Foolishly , like a foolish moth , he flew to the bright light , and , like the moths , of course he burnt his wings . 
Early in 1833 he had become a member of parliament , and in the autumn of 1834 the dissolution came . 
In the autumn of 1834 the dissolution came , and Frank Gresham , with his honourable lady wife and all the De Courcys at his back , found that he had mortally offended the county . 
To his great disgust another candidate was brought forward as a fellow to his late colleague , and though he manfully fought the battle , and spent ten thousand pounds in the contest , he could not recover his position . 
Frank Gresham , when twitted with being a Whig , foreswore the De Courcy family ; and then , when ridiculed as having been thrown over by the Tories , foreswore his father 's old friends . 
So between the two stools he fell to the ground , and , as a politician , he never again rose to his feet . 
He never again rose to his feet ; but twice again he made violent efforts to do so . 
Elections in East Barsetshire , from various causes , came quick upon each other in those days , and before he was eight-and-twenty years of age , Mr. Gresham had three times contested the county and been three times beaten . 
And Master Frank Gresham was not ill adapted for playing the part of a hero of this sort . 
He did not share his sisters ' ill health , and though the only boy of the family , he excelled all his sisters in personal appearance . 
Young Frank was every inch a Gresham , and was the darling of his father 's heart . 
The Misses Gresham were made in the De Courcy mould , and were not on this account the less dear to their mother . 
The case with young Frank Gresham may be supposed to be much nearer the former than the latter ; but yet the ceremony of his coming of age was by no means like that which fate had accorded to his father . 
Everything with him now turned to vexation ; he was no longer a joyous , happy , man , and the people of East Barsetshire did not look for gala doings on a grand scale when young Gresham came of age . 
Tables were spread , and meat , and beer , and wine were there , and Frank , as he walked round and shook his guests by the hand , expressed a hope that their relations with each other might be long , close , and mutually advantageous . 
It stands amid a multitude of trim gardens and stone-built terraces , divided one from another : these to our eyes are not so attractive as that broad expanse of lawn by which our country houses are generally surrounded ; but the gardens of Greshamsbury have been celebrated for two centuries , and any Gresham who would have altered them would have been considered to have destroyed one of the well-known landmarks of the family . 
Those who examined it more closely might see that under the arms was a scroll bearing the Gresham motto , and that the words were repeated in smaller letters under each of the savages . 
` Gardez Gresham , ' had been chosen in the days of motto-choosing probably by some herald-at-arms as an appropriate legend for signifying the peculiar attributes of the family . 
Some declared , with much heraldic warmth , that it was an address to the savages , calling on them to take care of their patron ; while others , with whom I myself am inclined to agree , averred with equal certainty that it was an advice to the people at large , especially to those inclined to rebel against the aristocracy of the county , that they should ` beware the Gresham . ' 
Nor now was it necessary that any neighbour should shake in his shoes when the Gresham frowned . 
It would have been to be wished that the present Gresham himself could have been as indifferent to the frowns of some of his neighbours . 
They tell us of the true and manly feelings of other times ; and to him who can read aright , they explain more fully , more truly , than any written history can do , how Englishmen have become what they are . 
He had once represented his county in parliament , and when he ceased to do so he still felt an ambition to be connected in some peculiar way with that county 's greatness ; he still desired that Gresham of Greshamsbury should be something more in East Barsetshire than Jackson of the Grange , or Baker of Mill Hill , or Bateson of Annesgrove . 
They were all his friends , and very respectable country gentlemen ; but Gresham of Greshamsbury should be more than this : even he had enough of ambition to be aware of such a longing . 
Therefore , when an opportunity occurred he took to hunting the county . 
For this employment he was in every way well suited -- unless it was in the matter of finance . 
Though he had in his very earliest , manly years given such great offence by his indifference to his family politics , and had in a certain degree fostered the ill-feeling by contesting the county in opposition to the wishes of his brother squires , nevertheless , he bore a loved and popular name . 
Men regretted that he should not have been what they wished him to be , that he should not have been such as was the old squire ; but when they found that such was the old squire ; but when they found that such was the case , that he could not be great among them as a politician , they were still willing that he should be great in any other way if there were county greatness for which he was suited . 
Yes ; when young Frank came of age there was still enough left at Greshamsbury , still means enough at the squire 's disposal to light one bonfire , to roast , whole in its skin , one bullock . 
Frank 's virility came on him not quite unmarked , as that of the parson 's son might do , or the son of the neighbouring attorney . 
The affair made much noise in the county , and was inquired into closely by many of the county magistrates ; by none more closely than by John Newbold Gresham , who was then alive . 
At the end of six months the new doctor found that Master Frank was not doing quite so well as he should do ; and after a little trouble it was discovered that the very excellent young woman who had been sent express from Courcy Castle to Greshamsbury -- a supply being kept up on the lord 's demesne for the family use -- was fond of brandy . 
He thought of the misery of Roger Scatcherd 's wife , thought also of her health , and strength , and active habits ; and thus Mrs. Scatcherd became foster-mother to young Frank Gresham . 
Previous to his father 's death , Dr. Thorne was in love . 
He brought Frank through his first troubles , and that at first ingratiated her ; he was equally successful with the early dietary of Augusta and Beatrice ; but , as his success was obtained in direct opposition to the Courcy Castle nursery principles , this hardly did much in his favour . 
No man loved his family name and honour , his old family blazon and standing more thoroughly than he did : he was every whit a Gresham in heart , but his spirit had been weaker than that of his fore-fathers ; and in his days , for the first time , the Greshams were to go to the wall ! 
It was the first of July , young Frank Gresham 's birthday , and the London season was not yet over ; nevertheless , Lady de Courcy had managed to get down into the country to grace the coming of age of the heir , bringing with her all the Ladies Amelia , Rosina , Margaretta , and Alexandrina , together with such of the Honourable Johns and Georges as could be collected for the occasion . 
` Why , he said that he would not utterly ruin poor Frank . ' 
` Ruin Frank ? ' 
Of course Frank will not have such an income as there was when you married into the family . 
We all know that ; and whom will he have to thank but his father ? 
Girls cost nothing ; there 's only Frank , and he ca n't have cost anything yet . 
Can he be saving money to buy back Boxall Hill ? ' 
Whatever difficulties poor Gresham may have , I do believe Doctor Thorne has brought them about . 
` One thing at any rate is certain ; if Mr. Gresham be involved so deeply as you say , Frank has but one duty before him : he must marry money . 
The heir of fourteen thousand a-year may indulge himself in looking for blood , as Mr. Gresham did , my dear ' -- it must be understood that there was very little compliment in this , as the Lady Arabella had always conceived herself to be a beauty -- ` or for beauty , as some men do , ' continued the countess , thinking of the choice that the present Earl de Courcy had made ; ` but Frank must marry money . 
I hope he will understand this early : do make him understand this before he makes a fool of himself : when a man thoroughly understands this , when he knows what his circumstances require , why , the matter becomes easy to him . 
I hope that Frank understands that he has no alternative . 
In his position he must marry money . ' 
Frank Gresham had already made a fool of himself . 
` Well , my boy , I wish you joy with all my heart , ' said the Honourable John , slapping his cousin on the back , as he walked round to the stable-yard with him before dinner , to inspect a setter puppy of peculiarly fine breed which had been sent to Frank as a birthday present . 
said Frank , wishing to say something civil in return for his cousin 's civility . 
Frank had never looked at his fortune in this light before , and was so slow and green that he was not much delighted at the prospect now that it was offered to him . 
He had always , however , been taught to look to his cousins , the De Courcys , as men with whom it would be very expedient that he should be intimate ; he therefore showed no offence , but changed the conversation . 
What sort of a lot do you mean to come out with , Frank ? ' 
Frank became a little red as he answered , ` Oh , I shall have two , ' he said ; ` that is , the mare I have had these two years , and the horse my father gave me this morning . ' 
` She is fifteen hands , ' said Frank , offended . 
` Well , Frank , I certainly would not stand that , ' said the Honourable John . 
` I 'll have him so trained before November , ' said Frank , ` that nothing in Barsetshire shall stop him . ' 
This was true , and Frank Gresham , who in the morning had been made so happy by his father 's present of a horse , began to feel that hardly enough had been done for him . 
Nevertheless , for a moment Frank Gresham did feel that , considering his position , he was being treated rather unworthily . 
` Take the matter in your own hands , Frank , ' said the Honourable John , seeing the impression that he had made . 
` His father you know died when he was very young , ' said Frank . 
` Yes ; I know he had a stroke of luck that does n't fall to every one ; but -- ' Young Frank 's face grew dark now instead of red . 
When his cousin submitted to him the necessity of having more than two horses for his own use he could listen to him ; but when the same monitor talked of the chance of a father 's death as a stroke of luck , Frank was too much disgusted to be able to pretend to pass it over with indifference . 
was he thus to think of his father , whose face was always lighted up with pleasure when his boy came near him , and so rarely bright at any other time ? 
Frank had watched his father closely enough to be aware of this ; he knew how his father delighted in him ; he had had cause to guess that his father had many troubles , and that he strove hard to banish the memory of them when his son was with him . 
` Oh , yes , ' said Frank . 
Frank could not help laughing at the story , especially at his cousin 's mode of translating the undertaker 's mottos ; and then they sauntered back from the stables into the house to dress for dinner . 
` Poor Frank , ' said he . 
Poor Frank ! ' 
` Frank will do very well yet , ' said he . 
` I would you could , Mr. Gresham , ' said the doctor , ` so that your mind might be happier ; but that can not be , and , therefore , I say again , that Frank will do very well yet , although he will not inherit fourteen thousand pounds a-year ; and I would have you say the same thing to yourself . ' 
Mary , however , knew that the cold words had come from a De Courcy , and not from a Gresham , and did not , therefore , resent them . 
We have said , that over and above those assembled in the house , there came to the Greshamsbury dinner on Frank 's birthday , the Jacksons of the Grange , consisting of Mr. and Mrs. Jackson ; the Batesons from Annesgrove , viz. , Mr. and Mrs. Bateson , and Miss Bateson , their daughter -- an unmarried lady of about fifty ; the Bakers of Mill Hill , father and son ; and Mr. Caleb Oriel , the rector , with his beautiful sister , Patience . 
There was nothing very magnificent in the number of the guests thus brought together to do honour to young Frank ; but he , perhaps , was called on to take a more prominent part in the proceedings , to be made more of a hero than would have been the case had half the county been there . 
In that case the importance of the guests would have been so great that Frank would have got off with a half-muttered speech or two ; but now he had to make a separate oration to every one , and very weary work he found it . 
Mr. Baker , with his moderate income , was a very much richer man than the squire ; and , therefore , he was peculiarly forward in congratulating Frank on the brilliancy of his prospects . 
Poor Frank had hardly anticipated what there would be to do , and before dinner was announced he was very tired of it . 
` It will now depend altogether on yourself , Frank , whether you maintain or lose that high position in the county which has been held by the Greshams for so many years , ' said the countess , as she walked through the spacious hall , resolving to lose no time in teaching to her nephew that great lesson which it was so imperative that he should learn . 
Frank took this as an ordinary lecture , meant to inculcate general good conduct , such as old bores of aunts are apt to inflict on youthful victims in the shape of nephews and nieces . 
` Yes , ' said Frank ; ` I suppose so ; and I mean to go along all square , aunt , and no mistake . 
His aunt did not care two straws about his reading . 
If , therefore , Frank now went astray it would not be from want of proper leading . 
said he , as soon as the soup and fish had been disposed of , anxious to perform the rites of hospitality now for the first time committed to his charge . 
` Do not be in a hurry , Frank , ' said his mother ; ` the servants will -- ' ` Oh ! 
Well , as I was saying about Cambridge -- ' ` Is Frank to go back to Cambridge , Arabella ? ' 
The effect on Frank was this : that he said to himself , speaking quite as plainly as Lady de Courcy had spoken by her shake of the face , ` My mother and aunt are always down on the governor , always ; but the more they are down on him the more I 'll stick to him . 
The Countess de Courcy was very anxious to go on with her lesson without loss of time ; but she could not , while surrounded by guests and servants , enunciate the great secret : ` You must marry money , Frank ; that is your one great duty ; that is the matter to be borne stedfastly in your mind . ' 
She could not now , with sufficient weight and impress of emphasis , pour this wisdom into his ears ; the more especially as he was standing up to his work of carving , and was deep to his elbows in horseradish , fat , and gravy . 
Before dinner Frank had found himself obliged to make numerous small speeches in answer to the numerous individual congratulations of his friends ; but these were as nothing to the one great accumulated onus of an oration which he had long known that he should have to sustain after the cloth was taken away . 
Some one of course would propose his health , and then there would be a clatter of voices , ladies and gentlemen , men and girls ; and when that was done he would find himself standing on his legs , with the room about him , going round and round and round . 
Having had a previous hint of this , he had sought advice from his cousin , the Honourable George , whom he regarded as a dab at speaking ; at least , so he had heard the Honourable George say of himself . 
said Frank ; ` would n't it be better if I made a mark of some old covey 's head ? 
Then declare you 're a Gresham to the backbone . ' 
Frank , in spite of the benefit he was receiving from his cousin 's erudition , could not help wishing in his heart that they had all remained in London ; but this he kept to himself . 
He thanked his cousin for his hints , and , though he did not feel that the trouble of his mind was completely cured , he began to hope that he might go through the ordeal without disgracing himself . 
Nevertheless , he felt rather sick at heart when Mr. Baker got up to propose the toast as soon as the servants were gone . 
The servants , that is , were gone officially ; but they were there in a body , men and women , nurses , cooks , and lady 's - maids , coachmen , grooms , and footmen , standing in the two doorways to hear what Master Frank would say . 
They had all seen Frank Gresham grow up from a child ; and were now required to welcome as a man amongst them one who was so well qualified to carry on the honour of that loved and respected family . 
His young friend , Frank , was every inch a Gresham . 
` God bless you , Frank ! ' 
` Your good health , Frank ! ' 
` And especially a good wife , Frank ! ' 
` Two or three of them , Frank ! ' 
` More power to you , Frank , my boy ! ' 
and then a merry , sweet , eager voice , from the far end of the table , ` Frank ! 
Frank ! 
do look at me ; pray do , Frank ; I am drinking your health in real wine ; ai n't I , papa ? ' 
Such were the addresses which greeted Mr. Francis Newbold Gresham the younger as he essayed to rise upon his feet for the first time since he had come to man 's estate . 
` As much as you 're Mr. Gresham , Master Frank . ' 
` Bravo , Frank ; and whose will that be ? ' 
Mr. Baker said I was every inch a Gresham . 
` Gardez Gresham ; eh ? 
` Frank , ' said Mr. Gresham , as soon as the door was closed , ` bring your glass here , my boy ; ' and the father made room for his son close beside himself . 
Frank sat himself down where he was told , and Mr. Gresham put his hand on his son 's shoulder and half caressed him , while the tears stood in his eyes . 
But the doctor , he did care ; he had a niece , to be sure , whom he loved , perhaps as well as these men loved their sons ; but there was room in his heart also for young Frank Gresham . 
` That 's a niceish nag you gave Frank this morning , ' said he to his uncle . 
` I was looking at him before dinner . 
He is a Monsoon , is n't he ? ' 
` Well , I ca n't say I know how he was bred , ' said the squire . 
` Let Frank alone for that , ' said Harry Baker . 
` He jumps beautifully , sir , ' said Frank . 
` I have n't tried him myself , but Peter made him go over the bar two or three times this morning . ' 
He thought that Frank was very ill used in being put off with so incomplete a stud , and thinking also that the son had not spirit enough to attack his father himself on the subject , the Honourable John determined to do it for him . 
I wish you had a string like him , Frank . ' 
Frank felt the blood rush to his face . 
He would not for worlds have his father think that he was discontented , or otherwise than pleased with the present he had received that morning . 
He was heartily ashamed of himself in that he had listened with a certain degree of complacency to his cousin 's tempting ; but he had no idea that the subject would be repeated -- and then repeated , too , before his father , in a manner to vex him on such a day as this , before such people as were assembled there . 
He was very angry with his cousin , and for a moment forgot all his hereditary respect for a De Courcy . 
There was , therefore , a considerable laugh at his expense when Frank , instigated to his innocent boast by a desire to save his father , challenged his cousin to a trial of prowess . 
The Honourable John was not , perhaps , as much accustomed to the ready use of his tongue as was his honourable brother , seeing that it was not his annual business to depict the glories of the farmers ' daughters ; at any rate , on this occasion he seemed to be at some loss for words : he shut up , as the slang phrase goes , and made no further allusion to the necessity of supplying young Gresham with a proper string of hunters . 
Miss Oriel was a very pretty girl ; a little older than Frank Gresham , perhaps a year or so . 
` Frank is very eloquent . 
` Thank you , Frank ; you 're very civil . ' 
Frank blushed , and Patience laughed . 
There was but a year 's difference in their age ; Frank , however , was still a boy , though Patience was fully a woman . 
I do love Greshamsbury , and if Mr. Gresham had had a younger brother , perhaps , you know -- ' ` Another just like myself , I suppose , ' said Frank . 
` Just as eloquent as you are , Frank , ' said the Lady Margaretta . 
` Miss Bateson has lost her heart to him for ever , because of his carving , ' said the Lady Margaretta . 
` Well , you see , I have not got any brothers , ' said Frank ; ` so all I can do is to sacrifice myself . ' 
Frank , upon my word I had no idea you were so very excellent at making speeches . ' 
` Well , ' said Frank , ` I should n't have said sacrifice , that was a slip ; what I meant was -- ' ` Oh , dear me , ' said Patience , ` wait a minute ; now we are going to have a regular declaration . 
` Oh , but I am not going to make a declaration at all , ' said Frank . 
Now , Lady Margaretta , I appeal to you ; did you not understand him to say something very particular ? ' 
Frank was evidently of an opinion totally different from that of Miss Oriel . 
Miss Oriel , when she found herself tête-à-tête with him , thought it was time to give over flirting ; Frank , however , imagined that it was just the moment for him to begin . 
So he spoke and looked very languishing , and put on him quite the airs of an Orlando . 
''' Any one looking at Frank 's face as he said this , might well have imagined that he was breaking his very heart for love of Miss Oriel . 
Oh , Master Frank ! 
Master Frank ! 
While Frank Gresham was thus misbehaving himself , and going on as though to him belonged the privilege of falling in love with pretty faces , as does to ploughboys and other ordinary people , his great interests were not forgotten by those guardian saints who were so anxious to shower down on his head all manner of temporal blessings . 
The countess was very anxious that Frank should also accompany them . 
Her great doctrine , that he must marry money , had been laid down with authority and received without doubt . 
She now pushed it further , and said that no time should be lost ; that he should not only marry money , but do so very early in life ; there was always danger in delay . 
She protested that there was at least no ground for supposing that Frank would absolutely disgrace his family . 
I think that Frank already begins to like girls that are young and pretty . ' 
` But , surely , aunt , ' said the Lady Amelia , ` now that he has come to man 's discretion , he will not refuse to consider all that he owes to his family . 
It was at last decided that the countess should herself convey to Frank a special invitation to Courcy Castle , and that when she got him there , she should do all that lay in her power to prevent his return to Cambridge , and to further the Dunstable marriage . 
Some days before the commencement of our story , young Frank had sworn in sober earnest , -- in what he intended for his most sober earnest , his most earnest sobriety -- that he loved Mary Thorne with a love for which words could find no sufficient expression , with a love that could never die , never grow dim , never become less , which no opposition on the part of others could extinguish , which no opposition on her part should repel ; that he might , could , would , and should have her for his wife , and that if she told him that she did n't love him , he would -- ` Oh , oh ! 
Mary , it must be remembered , was very nearly of the same age as Frank ; but , as I and others have so often said before , ` Women grow on the sunny side of the wall . ' 
Though Frank was only a boy , it behoved Mary to be something more than a girl . 
Frank might be allowed , without laying himself open to much just reproach , to throw all of what he believed to be his heart into a protestation of what he believed to be love ; but Mary was in duty bound to be more thoughtful , more reticent , more aware of the facts of their position , more careful of her own feelings , and more careful also of his . 
Frank and Mary had been so much together in his holidays , had so constantly consorted together as boys and girls , that , as regarded her , he had not that innate fear of a woman which represses a young man 's tongue ; and she was so used to his goodhumour , his fun , and high jovial spirits , and was , withal , so fond of them and him , that it was very difficult for her to mark with accurate feeling , and stop with reserved brow , the first shade of change from a boy 's liking to a man 's love . 
With a spirit painfully unequal to that of her grand relatives , she had quizzed Mary and Frank about their early flirtations . 
Very unlike a De Courcy she was in all that ; but , nevertheless , she had the De Courcy veneration for blood , and more than that , she had the Gresham feeling joined to that of the De Courcy 's . 
When Frank declared that Mary had a right to give him an answer , he meant that he had a right to expect one . 
Mary acknowledged this right , and gave it him . 
said Frank . 
` Indeed , I mean no such thing , ' said Mary , with a flash from her eye that made Frank almost start . 
Frank , of course , went up stairs to see if his new pocket-pistols were all ready , properly cleaned , loaded , and capped , should he find , after a few days ' experience , that prolonged existence was unendurable . 
However , he managed to live through the subsequent period ; doubtless with the view of preventing any disappointment to his father 's guests . 
Now Frank Gresham was handsome , amiable , by no means a fool in intellect , excellent in heart ; and he was , moreover , a gentleman , being the son of Mr. Gresham of Greshamsbury . 
It must not therefore be supposed that when Frank Gresham told her that he loved her , she had heard it altogether unconcerned . 
He had not , perhaps , made his declaration with that propriety of language in which such scenes are generally described as being carried on . 
Ladies may perhaps think that Mary should have been deterred , by the very boyishness of his manner , from thinking at all seriously on the subject . 
His ` will you , wo n't you -- do you , do n't you ? ' 
When Mary had , as she thought , properly subdued young Frank , the offer of whose love she , at any rate , knew was , at such a period of his life , an utter absurdity , then she found it necessary to subdue herself . 
But though she could not restrain these thoughts , it never for a moment occurred to her to take Frank 's offer in earnest . 
Though she was a grown woman , he was still a boy . 
He would have to see the world before he settled in it , and would change his mind about woman half a score of times before he married . 
She had not for an instant doubted ; not for a moment had she contemplated it as possible that she should ever become Mrs. Gresham because Frank had offered to make her so ; but , nevertheless , she could not help thinking of what had occurred -- of thinking of it , most probably much more than Frank did himself . 
A day or two afterwards , on the evening before Frank 's birthday , she was alone with her uncle , walking in the garden behind their house , and she then essayed to question him , with the object of learning if she were fitted by her birth to be the wife of such a one as Frank Gresham . 
They were in the habit of walking there together when he happened to be at home of a summer 's evening . 
This was not often the case , for his hours of labour extended much beyond those usual to the upper working world , the hours , namely , between breakfast and dinner ; but those minutes that they did thus pass together , the doctor regarded as perhaps the pleasantest of his life . 
If such appeal had been made to her , it must have come from young Frank Gresham . 
What , in such case , would it behove him to do ? 
Should he pack up his all , his lancet-cases , pestle and mortar , and seek anew fresh ground in a new world , leaving behind a huge triumph to those learned enemies of his , Fillgrave , Century , and Rerechild . 
Better that than remain at Greshamsbury at the cost of his child 's heart and pride . 
And so he walked slowly backwards and forwards through his garden , meditating these things painfully enough . 
It will of course be remembered , that Mary 's interview with the other girls at Greshamsbury took place some two or three days subsequently to Frank 's generous offer of his hand and heart . 
Such were her feelings when she protested that she would not be Augusta Gresham 's bridesmaid , and offered to put her neck beneath Beatrice 's foot ; when she drove the Lady Margaretta out of the room , and gave her own opinion as to the proper grammatical construction of the word humble ; such also had been her feelings when she kept her hand so rigidly to herself while Frank held the dining-room door open for her to pass through . 
` Patience Oriel , ' said she to herself , ` can talk to him of her father and mother : let Patience take his hand ; let her talk to him ; ' and then , not long afterwards , she saw that Patience did talk to him ; and seeing it , she walked along silent , among some of the old people , and with much effort did prevent a tear from falling down her cheek . 
Had she not proudly told Frank that his love-making was nothing but a boy 's silly rhapsody ? 
Had she not said so while she had yet reason to hope that her blood was as good as his own ? 
Had she not seen at a glance that his love tirade was worthy of ridicule , and of no other notice ? 
She could hear as she was walking , that while Lady Margaretta was with them , their voices were loud and merry ; and her sharp ear could also hear , when Lady Margaretta left them , that Frank 's voice became low and tender . 
They were those of her uncle and Frank Gresham . 
` God bless you , Frank , ' said the doctor , as he passed out of the grounds . 
` Indeed , I will , doctor , ' said Frank . 
The moment , however , that she did so , she found that she was followed , and in a very few minutes Frank was alongside of her . 
said he , calling to her , but not loudly , before he quite overtook her , ` how odd that I should come across you just when I have a message for you ; and why are you all alone ? ' 
Mary 's first impulse was to reiterate her command to him to call her no more by her Christian name ; but her second impulse told her that such an injunction at the present moment would not be prudent on her part . 
The traces of her tears were still there ; and she well knew that a very little , the slightest show of tenderness on his part , the slightest effort on her own to appear indifferent would bring down more than one other such intruder . 
John , or George -- ' ` Good gracious , Frank ! 
She had forgotten herself , and the strict propriety on which she had resolved , in the impossibility of foregoing her little joke against the De Courcy grandeur ; she had forgotten herself , and called him Frank in her old , former , eager , free tone of voice ; and then , remembering she had done so , she drew herself up , bit her lips , and determined to be doubly on her guard for the future . 
` Well , it shall be either one of them or I , ' said Frank : ` perhaps you would prefer my cousin George to me ? ' 
` I would carry you home , Mary , if it would do you a service , ' said Frank , with considerable pathos in his voice . 
Frank Gresham felt disconcerted , though he hardly knew why . 
He was striving to say something tender to his lady-love ; but every word that he spoke she turned into joke . 
Mary did not answer him coldly or unkindly ; but , nevertheless , he was displeased . 
This also was cause of vexation to Frank . 
If he could but have known all , he would perhaps have been better pleased . 
He determined not to be absolutely laughed out of his tenderness . 
When , three days ago , he had been repulsed , he had gone away owning to himself that he had been beaten ; owning so much , but owning it with great sorrow and much shame . 
Since that he had come of age ; since that he had made speeches , and speeches had been made to him ; since that he had gained courage by flirting with Patience Oriel . 
No faint heart ever won a fair lady , as he was well aware ; he resolved , therefore , that his heart should not be faint , and that he would see whether the fair lady might not be won by becoming audacity . 
` Mary , ' said he , stopping in the path -- for they were now near the spot where it broke out upon the lawn , and they could already hear the voices of the guests -- ` Mary , you are unkind to me . ' 
Were I possessed of a quick spasmodic style of narrative , I should have been able to include it all -- Frank 's misbehaviour , Mary 's immediate anger , Augusta 's arrival , and keen Argus-eyed inspection , and then Mary 's subsequent misery -- in five words and half a dozen dashes and inverted commas . 
The thing should have been so told ; for , to do Mary justice , she did not leave her hand in Frank 's a moment longer than she could help herself . 
Frank , feeling the hand withdrawn , and hearing , when it was too late , the step on the gravel , turned sharply round . 
Augusta was not naturally very ill natured , seeing that in her veins the high De Courcy blood was somewhat tempered by an admixture of the Gresham attributes ; nor was she predisposed to make her brother her enemy by publishing to the world any of his little tender peccadillos ; but she could not but bethink herself of what her aunt had been saying as to the danger of any such encounters as that she had just now beheld ; she could not but start at seeing her brother thus , on the very brink of the precipice of which the countess had specially forewarned her mother . 
said Frank , looking rather disgusted . 
Frank had hitherto been rather a despot among his sisters , and forgot that the eldest of them was now passing altogether from under his sway to that of the tailor 's son . 
` Frank , ' said Augusta , in a tone of voice which did honour to the great lessons she had lately received , ` aunt De Courcy wants to see you immediately in the small drawing-room ; ' and , as she said so , she resolved to say a few words of advice to Miss Thorne as soon as her brother should have left them . 
` You had better go at once , Frank , ' said Augusta ; ` the countess will be angry if you keep her waiting . 
Frank 's ear had also perceived that there was something in the tone of his sister 's voice not boding comfort to Mary ; he perceived that the De Courcy blood in Augusta 's veins was already rebelling against the doctor 's niece on his part , though it had condescended to submit itself to the tailor 's son on her own part . 
` Well , I am going , ' said he ; ` but look here , Augusta , if you say one word of Mary -- ' Oh , Frank ! 
Frank ! 
Oh , Frank ! 
Frank ! 
This is the second time your brother -- ' ` Mary , Mary , ' said Frank , deprecating her loquacity . 
He has now twice thought it well to amuse himself by saying to me words which it was ill natured in him to speak , and -- ' ` Ill natured Mary ! ' 
` Ill natured in him to speak , ' continued Mary , ` and to which it would be absurd for me to listen . 
He probably does the same to others , ' she added , being unable in heart to forget that sharpest of her wounds , that flirtation of his with Patience Oriel ; ` but to me it is almost cruel . 
Another girl might laugh at him , or listen to him , as she would choose ; but I can do neither . 
I shall now keep away from Greshamsbury , at any rate till he has left it ; and Augusta , I can only beg you to understand , that , as far as I am concerned , there is nothing which may not be told to all the world . ' 
Augusta followed her , dumbfounded at her indignation ; and Frank also followed , but not in silence . 
When his first surprise at Mary 's great anger was over , he felt himself called upon to say some word that might tend to exonerate his lady-love ; and some word also of protestation as to his own purpose . 
` There is nothing to be told , nothing , at least , of Mary , ' he said , speaking to his sister ; ` but of me , you may tell this , if you choose to disoblige your brother -- that I love Mary Thorne with all my heart ; and that I will never love any one else . ' 
Frank , as he walked up to the house with his sister , endeavoured to induce her to give him a promise that she would tell no tales as to what she had heard and seen . 
` Of course , Frank , it must be all nonsense , ' she had said ; ` and you should n't amuse yourself in such a way . ' 
Frank , when he reached the house , found the countess waiting for him , sitting in the little drawing-room by herself , somewhat impatiently . 
As he entered he became aware that there was some peculiar gravity attached to the coming interview . 
Three persons , his mother , one of his younger sisters , and the Lady Amelia , each stopped him to let him know that the countess was waiting ; and he perceived that a sort of guard was kept upon the door to save her ladyship from any undesirable intrusion . 
The countess frowned at the moment of his entrance , but soon smoothed her brow , and invited him to take a chair ready prepared for him opposite to the elbow of the sofa on which she was leaning . 
She had a small table before her , on which was her tea-cup , so that she was able to preach at him nearly as well as though she had been ensconced in a pulpit . 
` My dear Frank , ' said she , in a voice thoroughly suitable to the importance of the communication , ` you have to-day come of age . ' 
Frank remarked that he understood that such was the case , and added that , ` that was the reason of all the fuss . ' 
` Greshamsbury , Frank , is , or at any rate ought to be , the seat of the first commoner in Barsetshire . ' 
Her opinion of the poor squire was very different from Frank 's . 
` Oh dear , no ; of course not , ' said Frank ; and a bystander might have thought that there was a touch of satire in his tone . 
` Of course , ' said Frank , thinking how very weak was the staff on which his aunt 's ambition rested ; for Lord Porlock 's youthful career had not been such as to give unmitigated satisfaction to his parents . 
` And next to Porlock , Frank , my anxiety is about you . ' 
asked Frank . 
` No , Frank ; by no means . 
It may , perhaps , have been his misfortune , rather than his fault -- ' ` She is always down on the governor ; always , ' said Frank to himself ; resolving to stick bravely to the side of the house to which he had elected to belong . 
` But there is the fact , Frank , too plain to us all ; Greshamsbury is not what it was . 
said Frank , rather puzzled . 
` Yes , Frank , your duty . 
Frank muttered something . 
Tidings had in some shape reached his ears that his father was not comfortably circumstanced as regarded money . 
` And then , he has sold Boxall Hill . 
` Well , he has built a house there I 'm told ; so I presume that it can not be bought back : but it will be your duty , Frank , to pay all the debts that there are on the property , and to purchase what , at any rate , will be equal to Boxall Hill . ' 
Frank opened his eyes wide and stared at his aunt , as though doubting much whether or no she were in her right mind . 
He pay off the family debts ! 
He buy up property of four thousand pounds a-year ! 
He remained , however , quite quiet , waiting the elucidation of the mystery . 
` Frank , of course you understand me . ' 
Frank was obliged to declare , that just at the present moment he did not find his aunt so clear as usual . 
` You have but one line of conduct left you , Frank : your position , as heir to Greshamsbury , is a good one ; but your father has unfortunately so hampered you with regard to money , that unless you set the matter right yourself , you can never enjoy that position . 
` Yes , Frank . 
Frank blushed like a girl of sixteen . 
Frank blushed again ; and then saying to himself , ` How much the old girl knows about it ! ' 
felt a little proud of his passion for Mary Thorne , and of the declaration he had made to her . 
` And your connexion with Courcy Castle , ' continued the countess , now carrying up the list of Frank 's advantages to its great climax , ` will make the matter so easy for you , that , really , you will hardly have any difficulty . ' 
Frank could but say how much obliged he felt to Courcy Castle and its inmates . 
` Of course I would not wish to interfere with you in any underhand way , Frank ; but I will tell you what has occurred to me . 
` Why , Frank , I am talking to you of your prospects in life , of your future position , of that on which everything hangs , and you tell me of your degree ! ' 
Frank , however , obstinately persisted that he must take his degree , and that he should commence reading hard at six a. m. to-morrow morning . 
Miss Dunstable will not interfere with that , ' said his aunt , who knew the expediency of yielding occasionally ; ` but I must beg you will come over and meet her . 
asked Frank . 
asked Frank , who looked upon an unmarried woman of that age as quite an old maid . 
said Frank out loud , but speaking , nevertheless , as though to himself . 
` It is a matter of no moment , ' said his aunt , almost angrily . 
Frank was astonished at his aunt 's eloquence ; but , in spite of that eloquence , he made up his mind that he would not marry Miss Dunstable . 
How could he , indeed , seeing that his troth was already plighted to Mary Thorne in the presence of his sister ? 
This circumstance , however , he did not choose to plead to his aunt , so he recapitulated any other objections that presented themselves to his mind . 
In the first place , he was so anxious about his degree that he could not think of marrying at present ; then he suggested that it might be better to postpone the question till the season 's hunting should be over ; he declared that he could not visit Courcy Castle till he got a new suit of clothes home from the tailor ; and , ultimately remembered that he had a particular engagement to go fly-fishing with Mr. Oriel on that day week . 
` Nonsense , Frank , ' said she . 
he said , in the tone in which a condemned criminal might make his ejaculation on hearing that a very near day had been named for execution . 
And now good night , Frank . ' 
Frank , finding that there was nothing more to be said , took his departure , and went out to look for Mary . 
But Mary had gone home with Janet half an hour since , so he betook himself to his sister Beatrice . 
` Beatrice , ' said he , ` I am to go to Courcy Castle to-morrow . ' 
I 'll go bail he shall hold his head higher than ever young Gresham will be able to hold his . 
Now the fact was , that Sir Roger Scatcherd felt in his heart no special love for young Gresham ; but with her ladyship , it might almost be a question whether she did not love the youth whom she had nursed almost as well as that other one who was her own proper offspring . 
I know I found it hard to come by ; and there is no reason why Squire Gresham should expect to find me so very soft . ' 
She has not been up here since Frank 's birthday . ' 
They have all gone , and have taken Augusta and Frank with them . ' 
` Has Frank gone to Courcy Castle ? ' 
Master Frank wanted to get off , and was as hard to catch as an eel , and then the countess was offended ; and papa said he did n't see why Frank was to go if he did n't like it . 
There had , of course , been some passages between him and his son , and it had been agreed that Frank should go for a fortnight to Courcy Castle . 
And so Frank had packed up his best clothes , given a last fond look at the new black horse , repeated his last special injunctions to Peter , and had then made one of the stately cortège which proceeded through the county from Greshamsbury to Courcy Castle . 
A few months back , Frank had reigned almost autocratic over the lesser subjects of the kingdom of Greshamsbury . 
The servants , for instance , always obeyed him , and his sisters never dreamed of telling anything which he directed should not be told . 
All his mischief , all his troubles , and all his loves were confided to them , with the sure conviction that they would never be made to stand in evidence against him . 
Trusting to this well-ascertained state of things , he had not hesitated to declare his love for Miss Thorne before his sister Augusta . 
But his sister Augusta had now , as it were , been received into the upper house ; having duly received , and duly profited by the lessons of her great instructress , she was now admitted to sit in conclave with the higher powers : her sympathies , of course , became changed , and her confidence was removed from the young and giddy and given to the ancient and discreet . 
So it was with Augusta Gresham , when , with careful brow , she whispered to her mother that there was something wrong between Frank and Mary Thorne . 
If he does not marry money , he is lost . 
` He 's going with you to-morrow , you know , ' said the anxious mother . 
` Yes ; and that is so far well : if he will be led by me the evil may be remedied before he returns ; but it is very , very hard to lead young men . 
Now is the time ; now that Frank is to be away . 
You know what Frank 's position is . ' 
` Frank 's position ! 
She did not wish at the present moment to express herself as being in any way proud of Frank . 
She was desirous rather , on the other hand , of showing that she was a good deal ashamed of him ; only not quite so much ashamed of him as it behoved the doctor to be of his niece . 
` The squire has unfortunately embarrassed the property , and Frank must look forward to inherit it with very heavy encumbrances , I fear very heavy indeed , though of what exact nature I am kept in ignorance . ' 
` And , therefore , it is highly necessary that Frank should be very careful . ' 
` As to his private expenditure , you mean , ' said the doctor . 
Some word that had fallen from Mary , some closely-watched expression of her eye , or some quiver in her lip when Frank 's name was mentioned , had of late made him involuntarily think that such might not be impossible ; and then , when the chance of Mary becoming the heiress to so large a fortune had been forced upon his consideration , he had been unable to prevent himself from building happy castles in the air , as he rode slowly home from Boxall Hill . 
But not a whit the more on that account was he prepared to be untrue to the squire 's interest , or to encourage a feeling which must be distasteful to all the squire 's friends . 
` Oh , of course I am not going to say but what Frank must have been very imprudent . 
Of course he has been to blame . 
` I can assure you , Dr. Thorne , that an offer was made by Frank ; such an offer can not be without its allurements to a young lady circumstanced like your niece . ' 
` Frank has now gone to Courcy Castle ; and he talks of going from thence to Cambridge . 
He could not quarrel with the squire ; he could ill bear to quarrel with Frank ; though he now began to conceive that Frank had used him badly , he could not do so ; he could not quarrel with the children , who had almost been born into his arms ; nor even with the very walls , and trees , and grassy knolls with which he was so dearly intimate . 
He could not proclaim himself an enemy to Greshamsbury ; and yet he felt that fealty to Mary required of him that , for the present , he should put on an enemy 's guise . 
And then , bowing low to her , he left the room and the house , and sauntered slowly away to his own home . 
What was he to say to Mary ? 
He walked very slowly down the Greshamsbury avenue , with his hands clasped behind his back , thinking over the whole matter ; thinking of it , or rather trying to think of it . 
And then his thoughts recurred to Frank . 
It might be , that a marriage between his niece and the nominal heir to the estate might be of all matches the best for young Gresham to make . 
It was a dangerous subject on which to ponder ; and , as he sauntered down the road , the doctor did his best to banish it from his mind , not altogether successfully . 
She had not been quite certain till the morning , whether Frank had absolutely left Greshamsbury , and had , therefore , preferred the company of Miss Oriel to going up to the house . 
When Frank Gresham expressed to his father an opinion that Courcy Castle was dull , the squire , as may be remembered , did not pretend to differ from him . 
Courcy Castle was certainly a dull place to look at , and Frank , in his former visits , had found that the appearance did not belie the reality . 
He had been but little there when the earl had been at Courcy ; and as he had always felt from his childhood a peculiar distaste to the governance of his aunt , the countess , this perhaps may have added to his feeling of dislike . 
Frank , however , found that those grandees were not expected quite immediately . 
` I might go back to Greshamsbury for three or four days as she is not to be here , ' he said naïvely to his aunt , expressing , with tolerable perspicuity , his feeling , that he regarded his visit to Courcy Castle quite as a matter of business . 
Now that she had got him , she was not going to let him fall back into the perils of Miss Thorne 's intrigues , or even of Miss Thorne 's propriety . 
Frank did not understand the reasoning ; but he felt himself unable to rebel , and he therefore remained there , comforting himself , as best he might , with the eloquence of the Honourable George , and the sporting humours of the Honourable John . 
Frank had not hitherto made the acquaintance of his future brother-in-law , and there was , therefore , some little interest in the first interview . 
Mr. Moffat was shown into the drawing-room before the ladies had gone up to dress , and it so happened that Frank was there also . 
As no one else was in the room but his sister and two of his cousins , he had expected to see the lovers rush into each other 's arms . 
` Most happy , I 'm sure , ' said Mr. Moffat , again putting out his hand , and allowing it to slip through Frank 's grasp , as he spoke in a pretty , mincing voice : ` Lady Arabella quite well ? 
` I hope Augusta likes him , ' said Frank to himself , arguing on the subject exactly as his father had done ; ` but for an engaged lover he seems to me to have a very queer way with him . ' 
Frank , poor fellow , who was of a coarser mould , would under such circumstances have been all for kissing -- sometimes , indeed , even under other circumstances . 
But the arrival even of the bishop and his wife did not make the place cheerful to Frank Gresham , and he began to long for Miss Dunstable , in order that he might have something to do . 
He could not get on at all with Mr. Moffat . 
He had expected that the man would at once have called him Frank , and that he would have called the man Gustavus ; but they did not even get beyond Mr. Moffat and Mr. Gresham . 
` Very hot in Barchester today , very , ' was the nearest approach to conversation which Frank could attain with him ; and as far as he , Frank , could see , Augusta never got much beyond it . 
There might be tête-à-tête meetings between them , but , if so , Frank could not detect when they took place ; and so , opening his heart at last to the Honourable George , for the want of a better confidant , he expressed his opinion that his future brother-in-law was a muff . 
said Frank . 
Frank , when he heard that the heiress had arrived , felt some slight palpitation at his heart . 
He had not the remotest idea in the world of marrying her ; indeed , during the last week past , absence had so heightened his love for Mary Thorne that he was more than ever resolved that he would never marry any one but her . 
He knew that he had made her a formal offer of his hand , and that it behoved him to keep to it , let the charms of Miss Dunstable be what they might : but , nevertheless , he was prepared to go through a certain amount of courtship , in obedience to his aunt 's behests , and he felt a little nervous at being brought up in that way , face to face , to do battle with two hundred thousand pounds . 
` Miss Dunstable has arrived , ' said his aunt to him , with great complacency , on his return from an electioneering visit to the beauties of Barchester , which he made with his cousin George on the day after the conversation which was repeated at the end of the last chapter . 
said Frank , maliciously . 
` Do n't talk nonsense , Frank , ' said the countess , angrily . 
Frank muttered some sort of an apology , and then went to prepare himself for the encounter . 
Frank was a little more than ordinarily careful in dressing . 
He spoilt a couple of white neckties before he was satisfied , and was rather fastidious as to the set of his hair . 
There was not much of the dandy about him in the ordinary meaning of the word ; but he felt that it was incumbent on him to look his best , seeing what it was expected that he should now do . 
He certainly did not mean to marry Miss Dunstable ; but as he was to have a flirtation with her , it was as well that he should do so under the best-possible auspices . 
When he entered the drawing-room he perceived at once that the lady was there . 
He tried to look unconcerned , and remained in the further part of the room , talking with some of his cousins ; but he could not keep his eye off the future , possible Mrs. Frank Gresham ; and it seemed as though she was as much constrained to scrutinize him as he felt to scrutinize her . 
Frank at once felt that he could not altogether go along with his aunt in this opinion . 
Miss Dunstable might be very well ; but her style of beauty was one which did not quite meet with his warmest admiration . 
In age she was about thirty ; but Frank , who was no great judge in such matters , and who was accustomed to have very young girls round him , at once put her down as being ten years older . 
` Frank , ' said the countess , in the most natural and unpremeditated way , as soon as she caught her nephew 's eye , ` come here . 
I must positively go and say a few words to Mrs. Barlow , or the poor woman will feel herself huffed ; ' and , so saying , she moved off , leaving the coast clear for Master Frank . 
said the young lady , turning almost abruptly round to Frank , and giving a somewhat uncivilly cold shoulder to Mrs. Proudie 's exhortation . 
` No , ' said Frank ; ` I never was in Rome . 
And then , feeling a not unnatural anxiety as to the present state of Miss Dunstable 's worldly concerns , he took an opportunity of falling back on that part of the conversation which Mrs. Proudie had exercised so much tact in avoiding . 
said he . 
` So , ' said Frank to himself , ` if I should do it , I should be owner of the ointment of Lebanon : how odd ! ' 
And then he gave her his arm and handed her down to dinner . 
He certainly found that the dinner was less dull than any other he had sat down to at Courcy Castle . 
He did not fancy that he should ever fall in love with Miss Dunstable ; but she certainly was an amiable companion . 
said Frank , somewhat startled by the suddenness of the confidence . 
And so you have three whom you favour , Miss Dunstable ; ' and Frank sighed , as though he intended to say that the number was too many for his peace of mind . 
But of course I change them sometimes ; ' and she smiled on him very good-naturedly . 
` Very dull , indeed , ' said Frank , who did not quite know what to say . 
` I am quite sure she would , ' said Frank , very briskly . 
At this moment the countess gleamed her accomplished eye round the table , and Miss Dunstable rose from her chair as Frank was preparing his attack , and accompanied the other ladies into the drawing-room . 
His aunt , as she passed him , touched his arm lightly with her fan , so lightly that the action was perceived by no-one else . 
But Frank well understood the meaning of the touch , and appreciated the approbation which it conveyed . 
He merely blushed however at his own dissimulation ; for he felt more certain than ever that he would never marry Miss Dunstable , and he felt nearly equally sure that Miss Dunstable would never marry him . 
` I have done one good at any rate , ' said Frank ; ` I have secured the chorister 's vote . ' 
` I have n't exactly seen him , ' said Frank ; ` but I 've got his vote all the same . ' 
` No , not by a letter , ' said Frank , speaking rather low as he looked at the bishop and the earl ; ` I got a promise from his wife : I think he 's a little in the henpecked line . ' 
laughed the good bishop , who , in spite of Frank 's modulation of his voice , had overheard what had passed . 
` Oh , I got a distinct promise , ' said Frank in his pride ; and then added incautiously , ` but I had to order bonnets for the whole family . ' 
said Frank ; ` upon my word I thought that it was quite legitimate . ' 
said Frank , whose mind was only just beginning to be enlightened by the great doctrine of purity of election as practised in English provincial towns . 
` Nevertheless , I got Bagley 's vote , ' said Frank , persisting in praise of his own electioneering prowess ; ` and you may be sure of this , Mr. Nearthewinde , none of Closerstil 's men were looking at me when I got it . ' 
` Who 'll pay for the bonnets , Frank ? ' 
It was some little time before Frank could find an opportunity of recommencing his allotted task with Miss Dunstable . 
What could Frank do but declare that he was ready to lay his own in rest , now and always in her behalf ? 
His aunt had been quite angry with him , and had thought that he turned her into ridicule when he spoke of making an offer to her guest that very evening ; and yet here he was so placed that he had hardly an alternative . 
Let his inward resolution to abjure the heiress be ever so strong , he was now in a position which allowed him no choice in the matter . 
Even Mary Thorne could hardly have blamed him for saying , that so far as his own prowess went , it was quite at Miss Dunstable 's service . 
Had Mary been looking on , she , perhaps , might have thought that he could have done so with less of that look of devotion which he threw into his eyes . 
but I would though , if I liked her , ' said Frank . 
said Frank , who could not help thinking that in seven years time Miss Dunstable would be almost an old woman . 
Frank knew well enough that she was quizzing him , and could not resist the temptation he felt to be revenged on her . 
` I am sure it 's very pleasant , ' said he ; ` but as for myself I have never experienced it . ' 
Frank felt himself to be rather snubbed , in spite of the strong expression which Miss Dunstable had made in his favour . 
It was not quite clear to him that she did not take him for a boy . 
He was , to be sure , avenged on her for that by taking her for a middle-aged woman ; but , nevertheless , he was hardly satisfied with himself . 
` I might give her a heartache yet , ' said he to himself ; ` and she might find afterwards that she was left in the lurch with all her money . ' 
And so he retired , solitary , into a far part of the room , and began to think of Mary Thorne : as he did so , and as his eyes fell upon Miss Dunstable 's stiff curls , he almost shuddered . 
His aunt , with a good-natured smile on her face , came to him as she was leaving the room , the last of the bevy , and , putting her hand on his arm , led him out into a small unoccupied chamber which opened from the grand saloon . 
` Upon my word , Master Frank , ' said she , ` you seem to be losing no time with the heiress . 
` Oh , I declare you have ; but , Frank , my dear boy , you should not precipitate these sort of things too much . 
It is well to take a little more time : it is more valued ; and perhaps , you know , on the whole -- ' Perhaps Frank might know ; but it was clear that Lady de Courcy did not : at any rate , she did not know how to express herself . 
said Frank , looking up into her face . 
muttered Frank to himself , as he returned to the room where the men were still standing . 
He was right in this : she was an old fool , or she would have seen that there was no chance whatever that her nephew and Miss Dunstable should become man and wife . 
` Well , Frank , ' said the Honourable John ; ` so you 're after the heiress already . ' 
` He wo n't give any of us a chance , ' said the Honourable George . 
But , Frank , what will she say of your manner of looking for Barchester votes ? ' 
` I got that chorister for you , at any rate , ' said Frank . 
` And you would never have had him without me . ' 
It was in vain that the Honourable George , Mr. Nearthewinde , and Frank endeavoured again to bring him to the charge . 
The intimacy between Frank and Miss Dunstable grew and prospered . 
Now there was no despair at all about Frank Gresham . 
Lady de Courcy , who thoroughly understood that portion of the world in which she herself lived , saw that things were not going quite as they should do , and gave much and repeated advice to Frank on the subject . 
She was the more eager in doing this , because she imagined Frank had done what he could to obey her first precepts . 
He had not turned up his nose at Miss Dunstable 's curls , or found fault with her loud voice : he had not objected to her as ugly , or even shown any dislike to her age . 
` Frank , my dear boy , ' she would say , ` you are a little too noisy , I think . 
said Frank , looking demurely up into the countess 's face . 
-- but Frank , there are times , you know , when that sort of thing should be laid aside . 
She took it into her head that Miss Dunstable was sometimes almost inclined to laugh at her ; and on one or two occasions it almost seemed as though Frank was joining Miss Dunstable in doing so . 
She was able to make a tolerably correct guess at Lady de Courcy 's plan towards herself ; but she did not for a moment think that Frank had any intention of furthering his aunt 's views . 
she said to him one wet morning , as he was sauntering through the house ; now laughing , and almost romping with her -- then teasing his sister about Mr. Moffat -- and then bothering his lady-cousins out of all their propriety . 
very , ' said Frank . 
` That can never be the case with Miss Dunstable ; especially not at Courcy Castle , ' said Frank , bowing easily from the corner of the sofa over which he was leaning . 
` Of course not , ' said Miss Dunstable ; and Frank at once perceived that she spoke in a tone of voice differing much from that half-bantering , half-good-humoured manner that was customary with her . 
She paused a moment , and then added in a tone different again , and unlike any that he had yet heard from her : -- ` It is , at any rate , out of the question with Mr. Frank Gresham -- of that I am quite sure . ' 
Frank ought to have understood her , and have appreciated the good opinion which she intended to convey ; but he did not entirely do so . 
He was hardly honest himself towards her ; and he could not at first perceive that she intended to say that she thought him so . 
He knew very well that she was alluding to her own huge fortune , and was alluding also to the fact that people of fashion sought her because of it ; but he did not know that she intended to express a true acquittal as regarded him of any such baseness . 
And did he deserve to be acquitted ? 
Yes ; upon the whole he did : to be acquitted of that special sin . 
His desire to make Miss Dunstable temporarily subject to his sway arose , not from a hankering after her fortune , but from an ambition to get the better in a contest in which other men around him seemed to be failing . 
For it must not be imagined that , with such a prize to be struggled for , all others stood aloof and allowed him to have his own way with the heiress undisputed . 
Frank was the heir to a large embarrassed property ; and , therefore , the heads of families , putting their wisdoms together , had thought it most meet that this daughter of Plutus should , if possible , fall to his lot . 
It may be that they had sufficient worldly wisdom to know that so important a crisis of life is not settled among quips and jokes , and that Frank was too much in jest to be in earnest . 
But be that as it may , his love-making did not stand in the way of their love-making ; nor his hopes , if he had any , in the way of their hopes . 
After breakfast , as was his wont , he went out to the stables with his brother and Frank Gresham ; and while there , Miss Dunstable 's man , coming up to him , touched his hat , and put a letter into his hand . 
Frank , who knew the man , glanced at the letter and looked at his cousin ; but he said nothing . 
He was , however , a little jealous , and felt that an injury was done to him by any correspondence between Miss Dunstable and his cousin George . 
He would also , perhaps , encounter some Gresham enmity : this was a point on which he did think more than once ; but what will not a man encounter for the sake of two hundred thousand pounds ? 
Miss Dunstable was again about to start on a foreign tour in behalf of her physician and attendants ; and Frank Gresham was at last to be allowed to go to Cambridge ; that is to say , unless his success with Miss Dunstable should render such a step on his part quite preposterous . 
` I think you may speak now , Frank , ' said the countess . 
` Nonsense , aunt , ' said Frank ; ` she does n't care a button for me . ' 
said Frank , in a tone of considerable scorn . 
He almost made up his mind that he would ask her to show that he was not afraid . 
His only obstacle to doing so was , that he had not the slightest intention of marrying her . 
The duke had already declined to come to Courcy ; but he had in a measure atoned for this by asking some of the guests to join a great dinner which he was about to give to his neighbours . 
The party , indeed , who went from Courcy Castle was not large , and consisted of the Honourable George , Mr. Moffat , and Frank Gresham . 
what would have been her lot had anything but good happened to that vehicle , so richly freighted with her three lovers ! 
Frank felt some excitement a little stronger than that usual to him at such moments , for he had never yet been in company with the Duke of Omnium ; and he rather puzzled himself to think on what points he would talk to the man who was the largest landholder in that county in which he himself had so great an interest . 
He , however , made up his mind that he would allow the duke to choose his own subjects ; merely reserving to himself the right of pointing out how deficient in gorse covers was West Barsetshire -- that being the duke 's division . 
There might be about thirty , and Frank was inclined to think that they were almost crowded . 
at last Frank contrived to whisper to his cousin . 
Frank , of course , had nothing further to say ; but he already began to feel himself a little snubbed : he thought that the duke , duke though he was , when he asked people to dinner should be there to tell them that he was glad to see them . 
More people flashed into the room , and Frank found himself rather closely wedged in with a stout clergyman of his acquaintance . 
He was not badly off , for Mr. Athill was a friend of his own , who had held a living near Greshamsbury . 
He was somewhat of a bon-vivant , and a man who thoroughly understood dinner-parties ; and with much good nature he took Frank under his special protection . 
demanded Frank . 
` He 'll be here as soon as dinner is ready , ' said Mr. Athill . 
Frank did not understand this , but he had nothing to do but to wait and see how things went . 
He was beginning to be impatient , for the room was now nearly full , and it seemed evident that no other guests were coming ; when suddenly a bell rang , and a gong was sounded , and at the same instant a door that had not yet been used flew open , and a very plainly-dressed , plain , tall man , entered the room . 
Frank at once knew that he was at last in presence of the Duke of Omnium . 
But his grace , late as he was in commencing the duties as host , seemed in no hurry to make up for lost time . 
He quietly stood on the rug , with his back to the empty grate , and spoke one or two words in a very low voice to one or two gentlemen who stood nearest to him . 
Frank , when he found that the duke did not come and speak to him , felt that he ought to go and speak to the duke ; but no one else did so , and when he whispered his surprise to Mr. Athill , that gentleman told him that this was the duke 's practice on all such occasions . 
Now Mr. Fothergill was the duke 's land agent , and he it was who had greeted Frank and his friends at their entrance . 
Mr. Athill , who was a pleasant , chatty companion , had hardly seated himself , and was talking to Frank as quickly as he could , when Mr. Fothergill , who sat at the bottom of the table , asked him to say grace . 
Frank was altogether a stranger there , but Mr. Athill knew every one at the table . 
` It 's very much thrown away upon me , I know , ' said Frank , who could not at all put up with the idea of sitting down to dinner without having been spoken to by his host . 
` Oh , nonsense , ' said his clerical friend ; ` you 'll enjoy yourself amazingly by-and-by . 
Is he -- is he -- ' whispered Frank , ` is he by way of a gentleman ? ' 
Well , I suppose we must be charitable , and say that he is quite as good , at any rate , as many others there are here -- ' and Mr. Athill , as he spoke , whispered into Frank 's ear , ` You see , there 's Finnie here , another Barchester attorney . 
` The more the merrier , I suppose , ' said Frank . 
Mr. Apjohn , who sat immediately opposite to Frank , had , by some well-planned manoeuvre , contrived to get before him the jowl of a salmon ; but , unfortunately , he was not for a while equally successful in the article of sauce . 
` Well , ' said Frank , to his neighbour , ` it may be very well once in a way ; but I think that on the whole Dr. Thorne is right . ' 
said Frank , in a tone that was almost savage . 
And so the dinner passed on , slowly enough as Frank thought , but all to quickly for Mr. Apjohn . 
` This will soon be over now , ' said Frank , to himself , thankfully ; for , though he by no means despised good claret , he had lost his temper too completely to enjoy it at the present moment . 
But he was much mistaken ; the farce as yet was only at its commencement . 
The duke took his cup of coffee , and so did the few friends who sat close to him ; but the beverage did not seem to be in great request with the majority of the guests . 
When the duke had taken his modicum , he rose up and silently retired , saying no word and making no sign . 
asked Frank . 
` I shall go away , ' said Frank . 
Frank Gresham had been born and bred a Conservative , whereas the Duke of Omnium was well known as a consistent Whig . 
When he had proceeded about six miles , Frank was picked up by his friends ; but even then his anger had hardly cooled . 
` Was the duke as civil as ever when you took your leave of him , ' said he to his cousin George , as he took his seat on the drag . 
The countess , in the early moments of Frank 's courtship , had controlled his ardour and checked the rapidity of his amorous professions ; but as days , and at last weeks , wore away , she found that it was necessary to stir the fire which she had before endeavoured to slacken . 
` There will be nobody here to-night but our own circle , ' said she to him , ` and I really think you should tell Miss Dunstable what your intentions are . 
Frank began to feel that he was in a dilemma . 
He had commenced making love to Miss Dunstable partly because he liked the amusement , and partly from a satirical propensity to quiz his aunt by appearing to fall into her scheme . 
But he had overshot the mark , and did not know what answer to give when he was thus called upon to make a downright proposal . 
And then , although he did not care two rushes about Miss Dunstable in the way of love , he nevertheless experienced a sort of jealousy when he found that she appeared to be indifferent to him , and that she corresponded the meanwhile with his cousin George . 
Though all their flirtations had been carried on on both sides palpably by way of fun , though Frank had told himself ten times a-day that his heart was true to Mary Thorne , yet he had an undefined feeling that it behoved Miss Dunstable to be a little in love with him . 
He was not quite at ease in that she was not a little melancholy now that his departure was so nigh ; and , above all , he was anxious to know what were the real facts about that letter . 
He had in his own breast threatened Miss Dunstable with a heartache ; and now , when the time for their separation came , he found that his own heart was the more likely to ache of the two . 
` I suppose I must say something to her , or my aunt will never be satisfied , ' said he to himself as he sauntered into the little drawing-room on that last evening . 
But at the very time he was ashamed of himself , for he knew that he was going to ask badly . 
His sister and one of his cousins were in the room , but his aunt , who was quite on the alert , soon got them out of it , and Frank and Miss Dunstable were alone . 
` I do n't know how you feel , but for myself I really am a little melancholy at the idea of parting ; ' and she looked up at him with her laughing black eyes , as though she never had , and never could have a care in the world . 
oh , yes ; you look so , ' said Frank , who really did feel somewhat lack-a-daisically sentimental . 
Frank 's voice quivered a little as he made this gallant profession ; but still Miss Dunstable only laughed the louder . 
Frank became rather red in the face , and felt that he did so . 
Miss Dunstable was treating him like a boy . 
While she pretended to be so fond of him , she was only laughing at him , and corresponding the while with his cousin George . 
Now Frank Gresham already entertained a sort of contempt for his cousin , which increased the bitterness of his feelings . 
Frank threw himself back on the sofa on which he was sitting , and , in doing so , brought himself somewhat nearer to his companion than he had been ; he then drew his hand slowly across his forehead , pushing back his thick hair , and as he did so he sighed somewhat plaintively . 
` I do not care , ' said he , ` for the privilege of correspondence on such terms . 
Now Frank Gresham regarded himself as one who had already fought his battles , and fought them not without glory ; he could not therefore endure to be thus openly told by Miss Dunstable that she was very fond of him . 
` You little know how fond I am of you , Miss Dunstable , ' and he put out his hand to take hold of hers . 
She then lifted up her own , and slapped him lightly on the knuckles . 
She now put out her hand , not over white , and , as Frank soon perceived , gifted with a very fair allowance of strength . 
Frank was of course obliged to promise that he would do so . 
said Frank , making a slight unsuccessful effort to get his hand free . 
Frank was taken aback . 
So appealed to he found that he could not any longer say that he did love her . 
He could only look into her face with all his eyes , and sit there listening to her . 
` It is not that , ' said Frank , stoutly ; feeling himself imperatively called upon to utter something in his own defence . 
` I have laid no plans , ' said Frank , now getting his hand to himself . 
` I have never thought of your money , ' said Frank , surlily . 
` You have utterly mistaken me , Miss Dunstable , ' said Frank . 
Frank had nothing further to say in his own defence . 
He had not wanted Miss Dunstable 's money ; that was true ; but he could not deny that he had been about to talk that absolute nonsense of which she spoke with so much scorn . 
Frank found the task before him by no means an easy one . 
He had to make Miss Dunstable understand that he had never had the slightest idea of marrying her , and that he had made love to her merely with the object of keeping his hand in for the work as it were ; with that object , and the other equally laudable one of interfering with his cousin George . 
And yet there was nothing for him but to get through this task as best he might . 
He was goaded to it by the accusations which Miss Dunstable brought against him ; and he began to feel , that though her invectives against him might be bitter when he had told the truth , they could not be so bitter as those she now kept hinting at him under her mistaken impression as to his views . 
He had never had anystrong propensity for money-hunting ; but now that offence appeared in his eyes abominable , unmanly , and disgusting . 
This was rather a difficult question to answer ; and Frank was not very quick in attempting it . 
` I know you will not forgive me , ' he said at last ; ` and , indeed , I do not see how you can . 
` Never , ' said Frank , looking boldly into her face . 
` Never for a moment , ' said he . 
` It was half by way of making a fool of my aunt , ' said Frank , in an apologetic tone . 
At any rate , she and Frank again became friends , and , before the evening was over , they perfectly understood each other . 
Frank , in the meantime , had told to Miss Dunstable all his love for Mary Thorne , and Miss Dunstable had enjoined him to be true to his vows . 
Frank was about to swear that he never would -- again , when the countess , for the third time , sailed into the room . 
` No , no , indeed we sha n't ; shall we Frank ? ' 
On the following morning Miss Dunstable took her departure , not much heeding the rather cold words of farewell which her hostess gave her ; and on the following day Frank started for Greshamsbury . 
Frank returned from Courcy Castle to Greshamsbury , and having communicated to his mother -- much in the same manner as he had to the countess -- the fact that his mission had been unsuccessful , he went up after a day or two to Cambridge . 
During his short stay at Greshamsbury he did not even catch a glimpse of Mary . 
He asked for her , of course , and was told that it was not likely that she would be at the house just at present . 
He called at the doctor 's , but she was denied to him there : ` she was out , ' Janet said , ` probably with Miss Oriel . ' 
He went to the parsonage and found Miss Oriel at home ; but Mary had not been seen that morning . 
He then returned to the house ; and , having come to the conclusion that she had not thus vanished into air , otherwise than by preconcerted arrangement , he boldly taxed Beatrice on the subject . 
` It is out of the question your thinking of marrying her , Frank , ' said she . 
` I know nothing of the kind , ' said he , with the headlong imperative air that was usual with him in discussing matters with his sisters . 
And Frank , as he made the protestation , strengthened his own resolution by thinking of all the counsel that Miss Dunstable . 
had given him . 
Not that she would not have liked Mary Thorne for a sister-in-law , but that she shared to a certain degree the feeling which was now common to all the Greshams -- that Frank must marry money . 
It seemed , at any rate , to be imperative that he should either do that or not marry at all . 
Therefore , Beatrice , though she was Mary 's great friend , though she was her brother 's favourite sister , could give Frank no encouragement . 
Poor Frank ! 
The countess had not omitted to write to her when Frank left Courcy Castle ; and the countess 's letter certainly made the anxious mother think that her son 's education had hardly yet been completed . 
With this secondary object , but with that of keeping him out of the way of Mary Thorne in the first place , Lady Arabella was now quite satisfied that her son should enjoy such advantages as an education completed at the university might give him . 
With his father , Frank had a long conversation ; but , alas ! 
the gist of his father 's conversation was this , that it behoved him , Frank , to marry money . 
The father , however , did not put it to him in the cold , callous way in which his lady-aunt had done , and his lady-mother . 
He did not bid him go and sell himself to the first female he could find possessed of wealth . 
` If you marry a girl without a fortune , Frank , how are you to live ? 
` I do n't care about money , sir , ' said Frank . 
There was much more of the same kind , in which Frank said all that he could think of to lessen his father 's regrets . 
Frank was not aware whether or no his father had been told of the great family danger which was dreaded in that quarter . 
That he had been told , we may surmise , as Lady Arabella was not wont to confine the family dangers to her own bosom . 
It had been his fault , this great necessity that Frank should marry money ; and now it was his fault that Frank absolutely was talking of marrying a pauper . 
It was Frank 's doom , pronounced even by the voice of his father , that he must marry money . 
And so Frank went off again to Cambridge , feeling himself , as he went , to be a much lesser man in Greshamsbury estimation than he had been some two months earlier , when his birthday had been celebrated . 
Once during his short stay at Greshamsbury he had seen the doctor ; but the meeting had been anything but pleasant . 
He had been afraid to ask after Mary ; and the doctor had been too diffident of himself to speak of her . 
And so Frank went back to Cambridge ; and , as he did so , he stoutly resolved that nothing should make him untrue to Mary Thorne . 
` Beatrice , ' said he , on the morning he went away , when she came into his room to superintend his packing -- ` Beatrice , if she ever talks about me -- ' ` Oh , Frank , my darling Frank , do n't think of it -- it is madness ; she knows it is madness . ' 
` I half believe that fellow is not honest , ' he had once said out loud before Frank , and thus set Frank a-thinking of what dishonesty in the matter it was probable that Mr. Moffat might be guilty , and what would be the fitting punishment for such a crime . 
It should be mentioned , that the time spent by Frank at Courcy Castle had not done much to assist him in his views as to an early degree , and that it had at last been settled that he should stay up at Cambridge another year . 
When he came home at Christmas he found that the house was not peculiarly lively . 
Both these young ladies were staying with Miss Oriel 's aunt , in the neighbourhood of London ; and Frank soon learnt that there was no chance that either of them would be home before his return . 
No message had been left for him by Mary -- none at least had been left with Beatrice ; and he began in his heart to accuse her of coldness and perfidy ; not , certainly , with much justice , seeing that she had never given him the slightest encouragement . 
It was certainly hard upon Frank that all the attraction of the village should be removed to make way and prepare for his return -- harder , perhaps , on them ; for , to tell the truth , Miss Oriel 's visit had been entirely planned to enable her to give Mary a comfortable way of leaving Greshamsbury during the time that Frank should remain at home . 
Frank thought himself cruelly used . 
Frank hinted and grumbled ; talked of the determined constancy of his love to Beatrice , and occasionally consoled himself by a stray smile from some of the neighbouring belles . 
But still the house was dull , and Frank felt that he was the cause of its being so . 
Of the doctor he saw but little : he never came to Greshamsbury unless to see Lady Arabella as doctor , or to be closeted with the squire . 
These were dull days on the whole for Frank ; and sad enough , we may say , for our friend the doctor . 
In February , Frank again went back to college ; having settled with Harry Baker certain affairs which weighed on his mind . 
He went back to Cambridge , promising to be home on the 20th of the month , so as to be present at his sister 's wedding . 
But , in the meanwhile , the squire became anxious , and at last went up to London ; and Frank , who was at Cambridge , bought the heaviest-cutting whip to be found in that town , and wrote a confidential letter to Harry Baker . 
it is probable that he forgot to think of Frank at all as connected with his promised bride ; it is probable that he looked forward only to the squire 's violence and the enmity of the house of Courcy ; and that he found from inquiry at his heart 's pulses that he was man enough to meet these . 
Could he have guessed what a whip Frank Gresham would have bought at Cambridge -- could he have divined what a letter would have been written to Harry Baker -- it is probable , nay , we think we may say certain , that Miss Gresham would have become Mrs. Moffat . 
About two days after Frank 's departure for Cambridge -- it is just possible that Mr. Moffat was so prudent as to make himself aware of the fact -- but just two days after Frank 's departure , a very long , elaborate , and clearly explanatory letter was received at Greshamsbury . 
Frank then was all but the accepted husband of almost untold wealth -- so , at least , she was informed by her sister-in-law -- whereas , Augusta was the accepted wife of wealth , not indeed untold , but of dimensions quite sufficiently respectable to cause much joy in the telling . 
Augusta was left to pine alone ; and Frank , in still worse plight , insisted on maintaining his love for a bastard and a pauper . 
For Frank 's affair she had received some poor consolation by laying all the blame on the squire 's shoulders . 
It was from Beatrice that Frank had obtained his tidings . 
Frank had spoken of it as a possibility to Beatrice , and was not quite unprepared when the information reached him . 
He consequently bought his big-cutting whip , and wrote his confidential letter to Harry Baker . 
On the following day Frank and Harry might have been seen , with their heads nearly close together , leaning over one of the tables in the large breakfast-room at the Tavistock Hotel in Covent Garden . 
The ominous whip , to the handle of which Frank had already made his hand well-accustomed , was lying on the table between them ; and ever and anon Harry Baker would take it up and feel its weight approvingly . 
` It will be deuced hard if I ca n't get five or six shies at him , ' said Frank , again clutching his weapon almost spasmodically . 
But Frank had in some mysterious way drawn his hat very far over his forehead , and had buttoned his shooting-coat up round his chin . 
Harry had recommended to him a greatcoat , in order that he might the better conceal his face ; but Frank had found that the greatcoat was an encumbrance to his arm . 
He put it on , and when thus clothed he had tried the whip , he found that he cut the air with much less potency than in the lighter garment . 
He contented himself , therefore , with looking down on the pavement as he walked along , letting the long point of the whip stick up from his pocket , and flattering himself that even Mr. Moffat would not recognise him at the first glance . 
And now , having arrived at the front of the club , the two friends for a moment separate : Frank remains standing on the pavement , under the shade of the high stone area railing , while Harry jauntily skips up three steps at a time , and with a very civil word of inquiry of the hall-porter , sends in his card to Mr. Moffat -- ` Mr. Henry Baker . 
Frank was to keep his eye on the portals , and if he found that Mr. Moffat did not appear as readily as might be desired , he also was to ascend the steps and hurry into the strangers ' room . 
But fortune , who ever favours the brave , specially favoured Frank Gresham on this occasion . 
Frank , his heart leaping the while , saw his prey , and retreated two steps behind the area railing , the dread weapon already well poised in his hand . 
Had Sir Richard himself been on the spot Frank Gresham would still , we may say , have had his five shies at that unfortunate one . 
Then of course Frank could not do other than hit him anywhere . 
The blows , therefore , came now on his legs and now on his head ; and Frank unfortunately got more than his five or six shies before he was interrupted . 
The interruption however came , all too soon for Frank 's idea of justice . 
In the teeth , however , of these assurances , rude people did interfere , and after some nine or ten shies Frank found himself encompassed by the arms , and encumbered by the weight , of a very stout gentleman , who hung affectionately about his neck and shoulders ; whereas , Mr. Moffat was already receiving consolation from two motherly females , sitting in a state of syncope on the good-natured knees of a fishmonger 's apprentice . 
Frank was thoroughly out of breath ; nothing came from his lips but half-muttered expletives and unintelligible denunciations of the iniquity of his foe . 
But still he struggled to be at him again . 
Frank felt that he had hardly yet fleshed his virgin lash : he thought , almost with despair , that he had not yet at all succeeded as became a man and a brother ; his memory told him of but one or two slight touches that had gone well home to the offender . 
` I do n't care , ' said Frank , struggling manfully , but uselessly . 
` Let me out , I say ; I do n't care -- do n't let him go , Harry , whatever you do . ' 
Frank and Harry found that they were to consider themselves as under a gentle arrest , and Mr. Moffat , in a fainting state , was carried into the interior of the club . 
Frank , in his innocence , had intended to have celebrated this little affair when it was over by a slight repast and a bottle of claret with his friend , and then to have gone back to Cambridge by the mail train . 
He found , however , that his schemes in this respect were frustrated . 
He had to get bail to attend at Marlborough-street police-office should he be wanted within the next two or three days ; and was given to understand that he would be under the eye of the police ; at any rate until Mr. Moffat should be out of danger . 
said Frank to his friend , with a startled look . 
` Why , I hardly got at him . ' 
On the second morning after this occurrence , Frank was again sitting in that public-room at the Tavistock , and Harry was again sitting opposite to him . 
The whip was not now so conspicuously produced between them , having been carefully packed up and put away among Frank 's other travelling properties . 
` Frank , ' said he -- ` Frank , what on earth is all this ? ' 
and as he spoke he stretched out both his hands , the right to his son and the left to his friend . 
` He has given a blackguard a licking , that is all , ' said Harry . 
Frank felt that his hand was held with a peculiarly warm grasp ; and he could not but think that his father 's face , raised though his eyebrows were -- though there was on it an intended expression of amazement and , perhaps , regret -- nevertheless , he could not but think that his father 's face looked kindly at him . 
` He 's not a ha ` porth the worse , sir , ' said Frank , still holding his father 's hand . 
` Oh , is n't he ! ' 
said Frank , who could not yet induce himself to believe that he had been allowed a fair chance with Mr. Moffat . 
` Oh , Frank ! 
Frank ! 
All the women down at Greshamsbury will have it that you have killed him . ' 
` I almost wish I had , ' said Frank . 
` Oh , Frank ! 
Frank ! 
But now tell me -- ' And then the father sat well pleased while he heard , chiefly from Harry Baker , the full story of his son 's prowess . 
Some notice was , of course , taken of Frank 's prolonged absence from his college ; and tidings , perhaps exaggerated tidings , of what had happened in Pall Mall were not slow to reach the High-street of Cambridge . 
But that affair was gradually hushed up ; and Frank went on with his studies . 
He went back to his studies : it then being an understood arrangement between him and his father that he should not return to Greshamsbury till the summer vacation . 
It was , however , allowed to pass over ; and this much was fixed , that Frank was not to return home till midsummer . 
Had that petition depended solely on Mr. Moffat , Sir Roger 's seat no doubt would have been saved by Frank Gresham 's cutting whip . 
Frank has been foolish : I have said nothing of it , for it was not worth while to trouble you . 
He has said what he should not have said ; he has been foolish . 
And what might be the feelings of her heart when she so sententiously told her uncle that Frank had been foolish ? 
She was of the same age with him ; as impressible , though more powerful in hiding such impressions , as all women should be ; her heart was as warm , her blood as full of life , her innate desire for the companionship of some much-loved object as strong as his . 
Frank had been foolish in avowing his passion . 
Had she been able to walk heart-whole by his side while he chatted his common-places about love ? 
If it was so that Frank 's folly had been listened to with a certain amount of pleasure , Mary did not even admit so much to herself . 
Why should she have been less prone to love than he was ? 
Had he not everything which girls do love ? 
She , too , had some inner perception of that dread destiny by which it behoved Frank Gresham to be forewarned . 
She , too -- though she had never heard so much said in words -- had an almostinstinctive knowledge that his fate required him to marry money . 
Thinking over this in her own way , she was not slow to convince herself that it was out of the question that she should allow herself to love Frank Gresham . 
` How can Frank have been so wrong , so unkind , so cruel ? ' 
Her ideas of Frank 's fault , and unkindness , and cruelty , were doubtless different from those of his sister . 
Mary was quite ready to go hand in hand with Lady Arabella and the rest of the Greshamsbury folk in putting an end , if possible , to Frank 's passion : she would give no one a right to accuse her of assisting to ruin the young heir ; but she could hardly bring herself to admit that he was so very wrong -- no , nor yet even so very cruel . 
` I do not quite understand it all , ' said the squire ; ` but if Frank -- ' ` Oh we will not talk about him , ' said she , still laughing gently . 
Outside those Greshamsbury gates she and Frank Gresham , she and Lady Arabella met on equal terms ; let them each fight their own battle . 
Only that it was so absolutely necessary that Frank should marry money -- and only , also , that poor Mary was such a birthless foundling in the world 's esteem -- only , but for these things , what a wife she would have made for that son of his ! 
She never said a word of her feeling with reference to Frank , but she said much of her position in the village , and of the necessity she was under to keep out of the way . 
` It is very hard , ' said Patience , ` that the offence should be all with him , and the punishment all with you . ' 
After an absence of some six weeks , Frank , as we have seen , returned home . 
Nothing was said to him , except by Beatrice , as to these new Greshamsbury arrangements ; and he , when he found Mary was not at the place , went boldly to the doctor 's house to seek her . 
But it has been seen , also , that she discreetly kept out of his way . 
This she had thought fit to do when the time came , although she had been so ready with her boast that she had no objection on earth to meet him . 
Besides , how could she have demeaned herself when she met Frank in their parish church ? 
And then this affair of Frank and Mary Thorne ceased for awhile to be talked of at Greshamsbury , for that other affair of Mr. Moffat and Augusta monopolised the rural attention . 
Her period of martyrdom , however , did not last long , for soon the news arrived of Frank 's exploit in Pall Mall ; and then the Greshamsburyites forgot to think much more of Augusta , being fully occupied in thinking of what Frank had done . 
The tale , as it was first told , declared that Frank had followed Mr. Moffat up into his club ; had dragged him thence into the middle of Pall Mall , and had then slaughtered him on the spot . 
This adventure again brought Frank into the ascendant , and restored to Mary her former position as the Greshamsbury heroine . 
` One can not wonder at his being very angry , ' said Beatrice , discussing the matter with Mary , very imprudently . 
` Wonder -- no ; the wonder would have been if he had not been angry . 
One might have been quite sure that he would have been angry enough . ' 
` I suppose it was not absolutely right for him to beat Mr. Moffat , ' said Beatrice , apologetically . 
He could not complain out loudly ; he could not aver that his pet-lamb had been ill-treated ; he could not even have the pleasure of openly quarrelling with Lady Arabella ; but not the less did he feel it to be most cruel that Mary should have to live before the world as an outcast , because it had pleased Frank Gresham to fall in love with her . 
But his bitterness was not chiefly against Frank . 
That Frank had been very foolish he could not but acknowledge ; but it was a kind of folly for which the doctor was able to find excuse . 
Louis Philippe Scatcherd -- or as it may be more convenient to call him Louis -- was a young man just of the age of Frank Gresham . 
Frank was a picture of health and strength ; but , though manly in disposition , was by no means precocious either in appearance or manners . 
The same may be said of such youths as Frank Gresham . 
Her heart , perhaps , fixed itself with almost a warmer love on Frank Gresham , her foster-son . 
Frank she saw but seldom , but when she did see him he never refused her embrace . 
There was , too , a joyous , genial lustre about Frank 's face which always endeared him to women , and made his former nurse regard him as the pet creation of the age . 
Patience had spoken of Frank 's love as a misfortune , of his conduct as erroneous , and to be excused only by his youth , and had never appeared to surmise that Mary also might be in love as well as he . 
She would always talk about Frank when she and Mary were alone ; and , to speak the truth , Mary did not stop her as she perhaps should have done . 
As for a marriage between them , that was impossible ; Beatrice was well sure of that : it was Frank 's unfortunate destiny that he must marry money -- money , and , as Beatrice sometimes thoughtlessly added , cutting Mary to the quick , money and family also . 
Under such circumstances a marriage between them was quite impossible ; but not the less did Beatrice declare , that she would have loved Mary as her sister-in-law had it been possible ; and how worthy Frank was of a girl 's love , had such love been permissible . 
You would have suited him in every way . ' 
` Nonsense , Trichy ; I should have suited him in no possible way at all ; nor he me . ' 
` That would not have signified , for Frank can not endure the De Courcys himself . ' 
Frank , it was true , was away at Cambridge , and had been successfully kept out of Mary 's way since the suspicion of danger had fallen upon Lady Arabella 's mind . 
Frank was away , and Mary was systematically banished , with due acknowledgment from all the powers in Greshamsbury . 
She had said much to Beatrice as to the imprudence of her friendship with Mary , and she had done this purposely before the squire ; injudiciously however , for the squire had immediately taken Mary 's part , and had declared that he had no wish to see a quarrel between his family and that of the doctor ; that Mary Thorne was in every way a good girl , and an eligible friend for her own child ; and had ended by declaring , that he would not have Mary persecuted for Frank 's fault . 
The doctor bowed , and said that he was very sorry that she should have any cause of uneasiness about his young friend Frank . 
You know how much he owes to this young man : I do not , for the squire never tells anything to me ; but I know that it is a very large sum of money ; enough to swamp the estate and ruin Frank . 
` No , no , not ruin him , Lady Arabella ; not ruin him , I hope . ' 
` Of course you are , of course you are , ' said the doctor ; ` and , Lady Arabella , my opinion of Frank is such , that I feel sure that he will do well ; ' and , in his energy , Dr. Thorne brandished one of the thigh-bones almost in the lady 's face . 
Now , you know , unless Frank marries money he is lost . ' 
Frank is your son , and it is for you to look to him . 
` But suppose it should lead to renewed intercourse between Frank and Mary ? ' 
Frank is a very nice young fellow , gentlemanlike in his manners , and neighbourly in his disposition . ' 
I think she has not chosen badly as regards Miss Beatrice Gresham ; and should she even add Frank Gresham to the number -- ' ` Friends ! 
` As I said before , Frank is , to my thinking , an excellent young man . 
Should she tell me to-morrow that she was engaged to marry Frank , I should talk over the matter with her , quite coolly , solely with a view to her interest , as would be my duty ; feeling , at the same time , that Frank would be lucky in having such a wife . 
` Dr. Thorne has openly declared to me that a marriage between poor Frank and Mary is all that he could desire for his niece . 
` I suppose , Mr. Gresham , you do not wish that Frank should marry the girl ? ' 
Frank , however , can not afford to make such a match . 
It would be his ruin . ' 
` Of course it would ; utter ruin : he never could hold up his head again . 
I shall , however , know how to take care of myself ; and I shall continue to do the best I can to protect Frank from these wicked intrigues . ' 
Beatrice and Mary occasionally met , drinking tea together at the parsonage , or in some other of the ordinary meetings of county society ; but there were no more confidentially-distressing confidential discourses , no more whispering of Frank 's name , no more sweet allusions to the inexpediency of a passion , which , according to Beatrice 's views , would have been so delightful had it been expedient . 
Early in July , Frank was to come home . 
The manner in which the comings and goings of `` poor Frank '' were allowed to disturb the arrangements of all the ladies , and some of the gentlemen , of Greshamsbury was most abominable . 
And yet it can hardly be said to have been his fault . 
He would have been only too well pleased had things been allowed to go on after their old fashion . 
At Christmas Miss Oriel had submitted to be exiled , in order that she might carry Mary away from the presence of the young Bashaw , an arrangement by which all the winter festivities of the poor doctor had been thoroughly sacrificed ; and now it began to be said that some similar plan for the summer must be suggested . 
Lady Arabella quite coincided in the propriety of Mary 's being sent off , whither she never inquired , in order that the coast might be clear for `` poor Frank ; '' but she did not a whit the more abstain from talking of the wicked intrigues of those Thornes . 
One constant subject , I must not say of conversation on the part of Lady Scatcherd , but rather of declamation , had hitherto been the beauty and manly attributes of Frank Gresham . 
She had not been exactly sorry to hear Frank talked about ; indeed , had she been so minded , she could herself have said something on the same subject ; but she did not wish to take Lady Scatcherd altogether into her confidence , and she had been unable to say much about Frank Gresham without doing so . 
Now , therefore , she changed the subject ; and , as her own son was behaving with such unexampled propriety , she dropped Frank and confined her eulogies to Louis . 
She could not talk about Frank Gresham , but she could speak with hope to the mother of her only son . 
Frank , when he returned home for his summer vacation , found that Mary had again flown ; and the very fact of her absence added fuel to the fire of his love , more perhaps than even her presence might have done . 
Frank was now in the habit of corresponding with Miss Dunstable , and received from her most energetic admonitions to be true to the love which he had sworn . 
True to it he resolved to be ; and therefore , when he found that Mary was flown , he resolved to fly after her . 
He did not however do this till he had been in a measure provoked to it by the sharp-tongued cautions and blunted irony of his mother . 
It was not enough for her that she had banished Mary out of the parish , and made Dr. Thorne 's life miserable ; not enough that she harassed her husband with harangues on the constant subject of Frank 's marrying money , and dismayed Beatrice with invectives against the iniquity of her friend . 
The snake was so but scotched ; to kill it outright she must induce Frank utterly to renounce Miss Thorne . 
` Well , mother , ' said Frank at last , turning very red , partly with shame , and partly with indignation , as he made the frank avowal ; ` since you will press me about it , I tell you fairly that my mind is made up to marry Mary sooner or later if -- ' ` Oh , Frank ! 
` If , ' continued Frank , not attending to his mother 's interjections , ` if she will consent . ' 
` Oh , Frank , the girl is doing all she can to catch you ! ' 
You have turned her out among you ' -- Frank was beginning to be very bitter now -- ` but she has done nothing to deserve it . 
And , so speaking , certainly without due filial respect , he turned towards the door . 
` Frank , ' said his mother , raising herself up with energy to make one last appeal . 
` Frank , do you wish to see me die of a broken heart ? ' 
` If you wish to see me ever happy again , if you do not wish to see me sink broken-hearted to my grave , you must give up this mad idea , Frank , ' -- and now all Lady Arabella 's energy came out . 
` Frank , there is but one course left open to you . 
And then Lady Arabella stood up before her son , as Lady Macbeth might have stood had Lady Macbeth lived to have a son of Frank 's years . 
` Miss Dunstable , I suppose , ' said Frank scornfully . 
` Oh , Frank ! ' 
` But , Frank , the estate ? ' 
` Oh , no , Frank ; it is not . ' 
He may do with it as he pleases ; he will never have a word of complaint from me . 
Frank , in his enthusiasm , probably overlooked some of the preliminary difficulties . 
` Or I 'll take a farm under him and earn my bread that way ; but , mother , do n't talk to me any more about marrying money , ' and , so saying , Frank left the room . 
Frank , it will be remembered , was twenty-one when he was first introduced to the reader ; he is now twenty-two . 
Frank went out from his mother and immediately ordered his black horse to be got ready for him . 
He would at once go over to Boxall Hill . 
He went himself to the stables to give his orders ; and as he returned to get his gloves and whip he met Beatrice in the corridor . 
` Beatrice , ' said he , ` step in here , ' and she followed him into his room . 
` Oh , Frank ! 
` Oh , yes , my best , best love ; that is if you will see her : but , Frank , you are very foolish , very ; and she will be infinitely distressed . ' 
But Frank did not hate the estate ; nor did he at all hate the position of an English country gentleman . 
Miss Dunstable 's eloquence however rang in his ears . 
` No , ' said Frank , pluckily , as he put his horse into a faster trot , ` I wo n't mortgage that . 
They may do what they like with the estate ; but my heart 's my own , ' and so speaking to himself , almost aloud , he turned a corner of the road rapidly and came at once upon the doctor . 
said Frank , rather disgusted . 
Frank ! 
They were now not above a mile from Boxall Hill , and the doctor , therefore , could not but surmise whither Frank was going . 
They had repeatedly met since Frank 's return from Cambridge , both in the village and in the doctor 's house ; but not a word had been said between them about Mary beyond what the merest courtesy had required . 
` Yes , ' said Frank , blushing , ` I am going to Lady Scatcherd 's . 
I do n't mind , ' said Frank , trying to laugh ; ` he wo n't bite , I suppose . ' 
The doctor longed in his heart to pray Frank to return with him ; not to go and make further mischief ; not to do that which might cause a more bitter estrangement between himself and the squire . 
He could not bring himself to accuse Frank of being in love with his niece . 
So after a few more senseless words on either side , words which each knew to be senseless as he uttered them , they both rode on their own ways . 
And then the doctor silently , and almost unconsciously , made such a comparison between Louis Scatcherd and Frank Gresham as Hamlet made between the dead and live king . 
Frank 's offer of his affections had at first probably been but a boyish ebullition of feeling ; but if it should now be , that this had grown into a manly and disinterested love , how could Mary remain unmoved ? 
What could her heart want more , better , more beautiful , more rich than such a love as his ? 
Was he not personally all that a girl could like ? 
Were not his disposition , mind , character , acquirements , all such as women most delight to love ? 
Was it not impossible that Mary should be indifferent to him ? 
She had never been indifferent since Frank had uttered his first half-joking word of love . 
When Frank had first told her that he loved her ; ay , months before that , when he merely looked his love , her heart had received the whisper , had acknowledged the glance , unconscious as she was herself , and resolved as she was to rebuke his advances . 
When , in her hearing , he had said soft nothings to Patience Oriel , a hated , irrepressible tear had gathered in her eye . 
When he had pressed in his warm , loving grasp the hand which she had offered him as a token of more friendship , her heart had forgiven him the treachery , nay , almost thanked him for it before her eyes or her words had been ready to rebuke him . 
When the rumour of his liaison with Miss Dunstable reached her ears , when she heard of Miss Dunstable 's fortune , she had wept , wept outright , in her chamber -- wept , as she said to herself , to think that he should be so mercenary ; but she had wept , as she should have said to herself , at finding that he was so faithless . 
Then , when she knew at last that this rumour was false , when she found that she was banished from Greshamsbury for his sake , when she was forced to retreat with her friend Patience , how could she but love him , in that he was not mercenary ? 
How could she not love him in that he was so faithful ? 
It was impossible that she should not love him . 
Was he not the brightest and the best of men that she had ever seen , or was like to see ? 
And them , when she heard how true he was , how he persisted against father , mother , and sisters , how could it be that that should not be a merit in her eyes which was so great a fault in theirs ? 
When Beatrice , with would-be solemn face , but with eyes beaming with feminine affection , would gravely talk of Frank 's tender love as a terrible misfortune , as a misfortune to them all , to Mary herself as well as others , how could Mary do other than love him ? 
` Beatrice is his sister , ' she would say within her own mind , ` otherwise she would never talk like this ; were she not his sister she could not but know the value of such love as this . ' 
yes ; Mary did love him ; love him with all the strength of her heart ; and the strength of her heart was very great . 
What should she do , how should she act if this loved one persevered in his love ? 
what should she do , how should she act if he did not persevere ? 
Much as she might love Frank Gresham , she could never consent to be his wife unless the squire would smile on her as his daughter-in-law . 
Had Lady Arabella stood only in her way , Lady Arabella , flanked by the De Courcy legion , Mary felt that she could have demanded Frank 's hand as her own before them all without a blush of shame or a moment 's hesitation . 
` Please , my lady , here be young squire Gresham , ' said one of the untutored servants at Boxall Hill , opening Lady Scatcherd 's little parlour door as her ladyship was amusing herself by pulling down and turning , and refolding , and putting up again , a heap of household linen which was kept in a huge press for the express purpose of supplying her with occupation . 
Lady Scatcherd , holding a vast counterpane in her arms , looked back over her shoulders and perceived that Frank was in the room . 
Down went the counterpane on the ground , and Frank soon found himself in the very position which that useful article had so lately filled . 
` Oh , Master Frank ! 
oh , Master Frank ! ' 
Frank bore it patiently and with a merry laugh . 
` But , Lady Scatcherd , ' said he , ` what will they all say ? 
Eh , but , Master Frank , this is good of you . 
` Yes , ' said Frank , gently trying to disengage himself , but not successfully ; ` yes , you have had a great loss , Lady Scatcherd . 
` You always had a soft , kind heart , Master Frank ; so you had , God 's blessing on you ! 
` You 'll think me an old fool , Master Frank : I know that ; but you may think what you like . 
By degrees , slow degrees , Frank managed to change the conversation , and to induce Lady Scatcherd to speak on some topic other than his own infantine perfections . 
he affected an indifference as he spoke of her guest , which would have deceived no one but Lady Scatcherd ; but her it did deceive ; and then he asked where Mary was . 
Eh , now do ` ee , Master Frank ! ' 
But Master Frank excused himself . 
These apologies Frank willingly accepted , and then made his way as he could on to the lawn . 
said Frank . 
Frank at the present moment had not about him a scrap of badinage . 
How was it that Mary felt a little flush of joy , as Frank spoke in this indifferent way about Miss Oriel 's health ? 
Was there any real reason , any reason founded on truth and honesty , why she should not be a fitting wife to Frank Gresham ? 
So she had argued within herself ; not now , sitting on the donkey , with Frank 's hand-before her on the tame brute 's neck ; but on other former occasions as she had ridden along demurely among those trees . 
She would think of the squire , and resolve to regret Frank ; and would then remember Lady Arabella , and resolve to accept him . 
Her resolutions , however , were most irresolute ; and so , when Frank appeared in person before her , carrying his heart in his hand , she did not know what answer to make to him . 
` You ought , at any rate , to believe me , ' said Frank , ` when you find that a year has not altered me . ' 
She felt , also , that they were not true in sense ; that they did not come from her heart ; that they were not such as Frank deserved at her hands , and she was ashamed of herself . 
Had Frank known more about a woman 's mind -- had he , that is , been forty-two instead of twenty-two -- he would at once have been sure of his game , and have felt that Mary 's silence told him all he wished to know . 
said Frank , throwing his arms round her knees as she sat upon her steed , and pressing his face against her body . 
Frank , on the whole , rather liked the donkey . 
said Frank , presuming on this very negative sign of acquiescence . 
and then the hand was caught hold of and was at his lips before an effort could be made to save it from such treatment . 
There was a deep sigh , and then came the one word -- ` Oh , Frank ! ' 
Frank turned round and instantly found himself shaking hands with Sir Louis Scatcherd . 
How Mary got over her confusion Frank never saw , for he had enough to do to get over his own . 
He involuntary deserted Mary and began talking very fast to Sir Louis . 
Frank stayed but three minutes in the house ; gave another kiss to Lady Scatcherd , getting three in return , and thereby infinitely disgusting Sir Louis ; shook hands , anything but warmly , with the young baronet , and just felt the warmth of Mary 's hand within his own . 
Frank rode home a happy man , cheering himself , as successful lovers do cheer themselves , with the brilliancy of his late exploit : nor was it till he had turned the corner into the Greshamsbury stables that he began to reflect what he would do next . 
It was all very well to have induced Mary to allow his three fingers to lie half a minute in her soft hand ; the having done so might certainly be sufficient evidence that he had overcome one of the lions in his path ; but it could hardly be said that all his difficulties were now smoothed . 
How was he to make further progress ? 
One other thing , indeed she must do ; Frank must be made to understand what her birth had been . 
` This , ' she said to herself , ` will give him an opportunity of retracting what he has done should he choose to avail himself of it . 
It is well he should have such opportunity . ' 
But Frank had more than this to do . 
He had told Beatrice that he would make no secret of his love , and he fully resolved to be as good as his word . 
To his father he owed an unreserved confidence ; and he was fully minded to give it . 
It was , he knew , altogether out of the question that he should at once marry a portionless girl without his father 's consent ; probably out of the question that he should do so even with it . 
But he would , at any rate , tell his father , and then decide as to what should be done next . 
So resolving , he put his black horse into the stable and went in to dinner . 
After dinner he and his father would be alone . 
Yes ; after dinner he and his father would be alone . 
He dressed himself hurriedly , for the dinner-bell was almost on the stroke as he entered the house . 
He said this to himself once and again ; but when the meats and the puddings , and then the cheese , were borne away ; as the decanters were placed before his father , and Lady Arabella sipped her one glass of claret , and his sisters ate their portion of strawberries , his pressing anxiety for the coming interview began to wax somewhat dull . 
His mother and sisters , however , rendered him no assistance by prolonging their stay . 
With unwonted assiduity he pressed a second glass of claret on his mother . 
Frank would willingly have given her a dozen of the biggest , had she wanted them ; but having got the one she squeezed herself out again and scampered off . 
` Well , Frank , what have you been after today ? 
` My dear boy , he is quite at your service -- for goodness ' sake do let me have a little wine , Frank -- quite at your service ; any riding I have now is after the hay-makers , and that 's all on the grass . ' 
He 's turning out more of a horse than I took him to be , and I should be sorry to see him injured . 
He loved Frank with the tenderest love . 
He would have done so under almost any circumstances ; but , doubtless , that love had been made more palpable to himself by the fact that Frank had been a good son as regards money -- not exigeant as was Lady Arabella , and selfishly reckless as was his nephew , Lord Porlock . 
But now Frank must be in difficulty about money . 
This was his first idea . 
` What is it , Frank ; you have seldom had anything to say that has not been pleasant for me to hear ? ' 
And then the heaviness of visage again gave way for a moment as his eye fell upon his son . 
it became too necessary -- too necessary through his own default -- that Frank should marry money ! 
` At Boxall Hill , Frank ! 
` Father , it is well that we should understand each other about this -- ' ` Fill your glass , Frank . ' 
Frank mechanically did as he was did , and passed the bottle . 
` I believe it is not in your nature to deceive me , Frank . ' 
Frank had become legally of age , legally a man when he was twenty-one . 
Nature , it seems , had postponed the ceremony till he was twenty-two . 
` I think I may say so , ' continued Frank , with perhaps unnecessary modesty . 
` It is more than that , Frank ; I fear it is impossible . ' 
` It is impossible , Frank , in the usual sense . 
Frank caught at the word ` now . ' 
` Not a word of it , ' said Frank . 
And , Frank , I will tell it you ; not to turn you from her -- not with that object though I think that , to a certain extent , it should have that effect . 
` True , Frank . 
And , Frank , remember this , though I tell it you as a secret , a secret to be kept from all the world but one , you are quite at liberty to let the doctor know that I have told it you . 
Frank sat silent , looking very blank ; he also had , as had every Gresham , a great love for his pure blood . 
He had said to his mother that he hated money , that he hated the estate ; but he would have been very slow to say , even in his warmest opposition to her , that he hated the roll of the family pedigree . 
He loved it dearly , though he seldom spoke of it ; as men of good family seldom do speak of it . 
` Yes , sad enough , ' said Frank , rising from his chair and standing with it before him , leaning on the back of it . 
` I fear so , Frank ; ' and then there was again a few moments ' silence . 
` It would have done no good , ' said Frank . 
This was perhaps cruel of Frank . 
` I have thought it right to tell you , ' said he . 
said he , again more bitterly than before . 
` No , sir , ' he continued , after a further pause . 
And then he again repeated his question , asking for his father 's advice under the present circumstances . 
Here she now sat , having desired Augusta and Beatrice , as well as the twins , to beg Frank to go to her as soon as he should come out of the dining-room . 
He explained to him that it was impossible that he should marry at once ; suggested that he , Frank , was very young . 
` You married , sir , before you were one-and-twenty , ' said Frank . 
He suggested that Mary should have time to ascertain what would be her uncle 's wishes , and ended by inducing Frank to promise , that after taking his degree in October he would go abroad for some months , and that he would not indeed return to Greshamsbury till he was three-and-twenty . 
` He may perhaps forget her , ' said the father to himself , as this agreement was made between them . 
` He thinks that I shall forget her , ' said Frank to himself , at the same time ; ` but he does not know me . ' 
She also said to herself , more confidently than the squire had done , that Frank would quite forget Mary before the year was out . 
` Lord Buckish , ' said she to herself rejoicingly , ` is now with the ambassador at Paris -- Lord Buckish was her nephew -- ` and with him Frank will meet women that are really beautiful women of fashion . 
One other short visit did Frank pay to Boxall Hill , and one interview had he with Dr. Thorne . 
` Yes , ' said Frank , ` I knew it all before . 
And then also he went his way from him -- went his way also from Greshamsbury , and was absent for the full period of his allotted banishment -- twelve months , namely , and a day . 
Frank Gresham was absent from Greshamsbury twelve months and a day : a day is always added to the period of such absences , as shown in the history of Lord Bateman and other noble heroes . 
It was settled rather in this wise : that Frank should be subjected to no torturing process , pestered to give no promises , should in no way be bullied about Mary -- that is , not at present -- if he would go away for a year . 
Agreeing to this , Frank took his departure , and was absent as per agreement . 
What were Mary 's fortunes immediately after his departure must be shortly told , and then we will again join some of our Greshamsbury friends at a period about a month before Frank 's return . 
When Sir Louis saw Frank Gresham standing by Mary 's donkey , with his arms round Mary 's knees , he began to fear that there must be something in it . 
This he did for two or three days , and then , taking heart of grace , he remembered that , after all , he had very many advantages over young Gresham . 
In the first place , he was a baronet , and could make his wife a `` lady . '' 
In the next place , Frank 's father was alive and like to live , whereas , his own was dead . 
He possessed Boxall Hill in his own right , but his rival had neither house nor land of his own . 
After all , might it not be possible for him also to put his arm round Mary 's knees ; her knees , or her waist , or , perhaps , even her neck ? 
At any rate , he would try . 
And he did try . 
He certainly did not get nearly so far as putting his hand even upon her knee before he was made to understand that it ` was no go , ' as he graphically described it to his mother . 
He tried once and again . 
On the second , she was more determined , though less civil ; and then she told him , that if he pressed her further he would drive her from his mother 's house . 
There was something then about Mary 's eye , a fixed composure round her mouth , and an authority in her face , which went far to quell him ; and he did not press her again . 
He immediately left Boxall Hill , and , returning to London , had more violent recourse to the curaçoa . 
Frank was gone , and she therefore could resume her place at Greshamsbury . 
Not that the squire had purposely quarrelled with him ; but Dr. Thorne himself had chosen that it should be so , since Frank had openly proposed for his niece . 
Frank was now gone , and Lady Arabella was in arms against him . 
It should not be said that he kept up any intimacy for the sake of aiding the lovers in their love . 
No one should rightfully accuse him of inveigling the heir to marry his niece . 
But all the world knew of Mary 's engagement within a month of that day on which she had neglected to expel Frank 's finger from her hand ; it had been told openly through the country-side that she had confessed her love for the young squire . 
Now it is disagreeable for a young lady to walk about under such circumstances , especially so when she has no female friend to keep her in countenance , more especially so when the gentleman is of such importance in the neighbourhood as Frank was in that locality . 
It was a matter of moment to every farmer , and every farmer 's wife , which bride Frank should marry of those two bespoken for him ; Mary , namely , or money . 
Every yokel about the place had been made to understand that , by some feminine sleight of hand , the doctor 's niece had managed to trap Master Frank , and that Master Frank had been sent out of the way so that he might , if yet possible , break through the trapping . 
There may , perhaps , have been something pleasant in the heartiness of this ; but it was not pleasant to have this heart affair of hers thus publicly scanned and talked over ; to have it known to every one that she had set her heart on marrying Frank Gresham , and that all the Greshams had set their hearts on preventing it . 
` Oh , Frank ! ' 
She had told him that that had passed between Frank and her which amounted , at any rate on his part , to a proposal . 
Could he , therefore , wisely or honestly , in true friendship to the squire , to Frank , or to his niece , take any steps to separate two persons who loved each other , and whose marriage would in all human probability be so suitable ? 
And yet he could not bring himself to encourage it then . 
Oh , Frank ! 
Frank ! 
This went on all through the feud up to the period of Lady Arabella 's illness ; and then one morning , about a month before the date fixed for Frank 's return , Mr. Oriel found himself engaged to Miss Beatrice Gresham . 
It was arranged very differently from those two other matches -- embryo , or not embryo , those , namely , of Augusta with Mr. Moffat , and Frank with Mary Thorne . 
Then , by degrees , the conversation changed from the loves of Mr. Oriel and Beatrice to the troubles of Frank Gresham and herself . 
I can never be in that house again till Frank Gresham is a married man , or till I am about to be a married woman . 
Why should she speak of her own love when she was fully determined not to speak of Frank 's promises ? 
It must be remembered that Mary , among her miseries , had to suffer this : that since Frank 's departure , now nearly twelve months ago , she had not heard a word about him , or , rather , she had only heard that he was very much in love with some lady in London . 
It might not improbably be the case that Frank was untrue to her ; but she would not take it for granted because she was now told so . 
It was more than probable that he should amuse himself with some one : flirting was his prevailing sin ; and if he did flirt , the most would of course be made of it . 
Why had she allowed him to understand that he was master of her heart ? 
Did she not know that there was everything against such a marriage as that which he proposed ? 
Could she hope , was it possible , that a boy like Frank should be true to his first love ? 
And , if he were true , if he were ready to go to the altar with her tomorrow , ought she to allow him to degrade himself by such a marriage ? 
Frank had taken his degree , as arranged , and had then gone abroad for the winter , doing the fashionable things , going up the Nile , crossing over to Mount Sinai , thence over the long desert to Jerusalem , and home by Damascus , Beyrout , and Constantinople , bringing back a long beard , a red cap , and a chibook , just as our fathers used to go through Italy and Switzerland , and our grandfathers to spend a season in Paris . 
He had then remained for a couple of months in London , going through all the society which the De Courcys were able to open to him . 
And it was true that a certain belle of the season , of that season and some others , had been captivated -- for the tenth time -- by the silken sheen of his long beard . 
Frank had probably been more demonstrative , perhaps even more susceptible , than he should have been ; and hence the rumour , which had all too willingly been forwarded to Greshamsbury . 
But young Gresham had also met another lady in London , namely , Miss Dunstable . 
Frank 's love was never allowed to flag . 
When he spoke of the difficulties in his way , she twitted him by being overcome by straws ; and told him that no one was worth having who was afraid of every lion that he met in his path . 
When he spoke of money , she bade him earn it ; and always ended by offering to smooth for him any real difficulty which want of means might put in his way . 
` No , ' Frank used to say to himself , when these offers were made , ` I never intended to take her and her money together ; and , therefore , I certainly will never take the money alone . ' 
Frank comes home on the 12th . 
I love your brother ; I love Frank Gresham ; I love him quite as well , quite as warmly , as you love Caleb Oriel . ' 
Beatrice had dearly loved her friend , and had thought of her with affection through all this long period in which they had been separated ; but she had given her love and her thoughts on the understanding , as it were , that they were in unison as to the impropriety of Frank 's conduct . 
She had always spoken , with a grave face , of Frank and his love as of a great misfortune , even to Mary herself ; and her pity for Mary had been founded on the conviction of her innocence . 
Had Beatrice up to this dreamed that Mary was in love with Frank , she would doubtless have sympathised with her more or less , sooner or later . 
If it could be discovered to-morrow that Frank were not the heir , I might have some chance of happiness . ' 
` You say you love him . ' 
` But if he does not love you , will you cease to do so ? ' 
` I fear , ' continued Beatrice , ` you hardly know , perhaps do not think , what is Frank 's real character . 
He is not made to settle down early in life ; even now , I believe he is attached to some lady in London , whom , of course , he can not marry . ' 
She had heard of Frank 's new love-affair , and , believing what she had heard , thought it best to tell the truth . 
At this moment , Beatrice was not disposed to repeat all that Frank had said . 
A year ago , before he went away , he had told his sister a score of times that he meant to marry Mary Thorne if she would have him ; but Beatrice now looked on all that as idle , boyish vapouring . 
` Only remember this : should Frank marry tomorrow , I shall have no ground for blaming him . 
He is free as far as I am concerned . 
He can take the London lady if he likes . 
You may tell him so from me . 
But on the following morning circumstances led to Frank Gresham 's name being mentioned . 
Frank ? ' 
Beatrice said he was to be here on the 12th . ' 
` And would you run away from him too , Mary ? ' 
For one season longer let us face -- I will not say our enemies ; I can not call anybody my enemy who bears the name of Gresham . ' 
So Frank is to be here on the 12th ? ' 
She would have given the world that he should ask her questions ; but she could not bid him to do so ; and she found it impossible to talk openly to him about Frank unless he did so . 
` Will he come here ? ' 
He , Louis ? 
Yes , I think that in all probability he will . ' 
` No ; but Frank , ' she said , in a still lower voice . 
` Ah , my darling , that I can not tell ; but will it be well that he should come here ? ' 
This intention he carried out about two days after Frank Gresham had done the same thing . 
He had delayed doing so till he had succeeded in purchasing his friend Jenkins ' Arab pony , imagining that such a present could not but go far in weaning Mary 's heart from her other lover . 
` That 's all very well , d -- well , I dare say , for you and squire Gresham -- ' ` What do you mean , Sir Louis ? ' 
Frank would be home in a few days , and he , too , might be ferreted out . 
` Yours ever , ` F. N. Gresham . 
Frank had returned unexpectedly just before dinner , and he was now undergoing his father 's smiles , his mother 's embraces , and his sisters ' questions . 
` So Frank has come home ? ' 
When Frank came in , the doctor hardly did know him . 
The doctor had hitherto not been much in favour of long beards , but he could not deny that Frank looked very well with the appendage . 
Frank was again very much altered . 
It has been said , that though he was a boy at twenty-one , he was a man at twenty-two . 
But now , at twenty-three , he appeared to be almost a man of the world . 
His manners were easy , his voice under his control , and words were at his command : he was no longer either shy or noisy ; but , perhaps , was open to the charge of seeming , at least , to be too conscious of his own merits . 
He was , indeed , very handsome ; tall , manly , and powerfully built , his form was such as women 's eyes have ever loved to look upon . 
` Ah , if he would but marry money ! ' 
` You do n't mean to tell me , Frank , that you are going to eat soup with that beard , ' said the squire , when they were seated round the table . 
` But I do like it , ' said Frank . 
you would n't have him cut it off , ' said one of the twins . 
` Yes , ' said Frank , resolutely set against laughing at Mr. Gazebee 's pun . 
` Why , his beard descends to his ankles , and he is obliged to tie it in a bag at night , because his feet get entangled in it when he is asleep ! ' 
` Oh , Frank ! ' 
They were all delighted to praise Frank , and talk about him . 
` Yes , indeed , ' said Frank ; ' a very tidy lot of money . 
Sir Louis then shifted his seat again , and found himself next to Frank . 
Mr. Gazebee was opposite to him , and the doctor opposite to Frank . 
` Oh , yes , ' said Frank , laughing . 
` He 's got what will buy him bread and cheese when the Rads shut up the church ; unless , indeed , they shut up the funds too . ' 
Frank looked at his father with almost a malicious smile , and began to think that he too might be better employed out among the walks . 
Did he think then of a former summer-evening , when he had half broken Mary 's heart by walking there too lovingly with Patience Oriel ? 
` Up to trap -- well , I should say he was ; that is , if I know what trap means , ' said Frank . 
Now look here , squire -- ' ` If you do n't mind , sir , ' said Frank , ` I 've got something very particular -- perhaps , however -- ' ` Stay till Thorne returns , Frank . ' 
Frank did stay till Thorne returned , and then escaped . 
Why , now , Gresham , we 're all totted now , you see ; you 're down in my books , I take it , for pretty near a hundred thousand pounds . ' 
Long before the doctor returned home , after the little dinner-party above described , Mary had learnt that Frank was already at Greshamsbury . 
She had heard nothing of him or from him , not a word , nothing in the shape of a message , for twelve months ; and at her age twelve months is a long period . 
Would he come and see her in spite of his mother ? 
Would he send her any tidings of his return , or notice her in any way ? 
If he did not , what would she do ? 
and if he did , what then would she do ? 
What chance could there be that he should care for her , after an absence spent in travelling over the world ? 
No ; she would forget that affair of his hand ; and then , immediately after having so determined , she would confess to herself that it was a thing not to be forgotten , and impossible of oblivion . 
It may easily be conceived that he was hardly in a humour to talk much about Frank Gresham . 
` What am I to do with him ? ' 
said he , almost in tears : ` what am I to do with him ? ' 
` Can you not send him to Boxall Hill ? ' 
There was no word about Frank that night . 
Should she try the bitter smile , the half-nod , with Frank ? 
` At any rate , he wo n't come here , ' she said : and so , with a deep sigh , she turned from the window into the room . 
There he was , Frank Gresham himself , standing there in her immediate presence , beautiful as Apollo . 
Her next thought was how she might escape from out of his arms . 
Oh , Frank ! 
At last Mary succeeded in her efforts at effranchisement , and she and Frank stood at some little distance from each other . 
She could not but marvel at him . 
That long , soft beard , which just now had been so close to her face , was all new ; his whole look was altered ; his mien , and gait , and very voice were not the same . 
Was this , indeed , the very Frank who had chattered of his boyish love , two years since , in the gardens at Greshamsbury ? 
` Frank , ' she said , and then stopped ; not being able at the moment to get any further . 
` Oh , Frank , is not this imprudent ? 
He would not excuse her , or allow her to escape from saying it in so many words ; and when the words did come at last , they came freely . 
` Yes , Frank , I do love you ; if that were all , you would have no cause for fear . ' 
` Ah ; but your father , Frank , and my uncle . 
Frank , of course , ran through all his arguments . 
He would go into a profession , or take a farm and live in it . 
He would wait ; that is , for a few months . 
` A few months , Frank ! ' 
` Oh , Frank ! ' 
But Frank would not be stopped . 
He would do anything that his father might ask him . 
He would not give up the wife he had chosen . 
It would not be reasonable , or proper , or righteous that he should be asked to do so ; and here he mounted a somewhat high horse . 
She could only leave her hand in his , and feel that she was happier than she had been at any time since the day of that donkey-ride at Boxall Hill . 
` But , Mary , ' continued he , becoming very grave and serious . 
Her hand was still in his , and so she stood , thinking for a moment before she answered him . 
But she could not do less for him than he was willing to do for her . 
But , Frank , it can not be soon . ' 
Frank had been three times told by Mary that he had better go before he did go ; and , at last , she was obliged to take the matter into her own hands , and lead him to the door . 
` You are in a great hurry to get rid of me , ' said he . 
However , at last , he did go , and Mary was left alone . 
Frank , although he had been so slow to move , had a thousand other things to do , and went about them at once . 
He was very much in love , no doubt , but that did not interfere with his interest in other pursuits . 
In the first place , he had to see Harry Baker , and Harry Baker 's stud . 
Harry had been specially charged to look after the black horse during Frank 's absence , and the holiday doings of that valuable animal had to be inquired into . 
Frank , when he left his betrothed , went about these things quite as vehemently as though he were not in love at all ; quite as vehemently as though he had said nothing as to going into some profession which must necessarily separate him from horses and dogs . 
That doctrine , laid down so imperatively by the great authorities of Greshamsbury , that edict , which demanded that Frank should marry money , had come home also to her with a certain force . 
It might be , that Frank also should perceive that he must marry money . 
It would be a pity that he had not seen it sooner ; but she , at any rate , would not complain . 
The sun had been in the mid-sky , when Frank had left her , but its rays were beginning to stream into the room from the west before she moved from her position . 
Her first thought in the morning had been this : Would he come to see her ? 
Her last now was more soothing to her , less full of absolute fear : Would it be right that he should come again ? 
Mary prepared the tumbler , and , as she handed it to him , he said , ` Frank Gresham has been here to-day . ' 
Frank Gresham . ' 
Frank , they all said , must marry money ; and even he -- he the doctor himself , much as he despised the idea for money 's sake -- even he could not but confess that Frank , as the heir to an old , but grievously-embarrassed property , had no right to marry , at his early age , a girl without a shilling . 
Mary , his niece , his own child , would probably be the heiress of this immense wealth ; but he could not tell this to Frank ; no , nor Frank 's father while Sir Louis was yet alive . 
` Do you mean to say she 's in love with that young Gresham ? ' 
On the next morning , he countermanded the horses , informing the doctor that he did so because he had a little bit of business to transact with squire Gresham before he left the place ! 
Of course , I was thinking of what was due to the name of Gresham . 
` P. S. -- I fear Frank is going to be very foolish with Mary Thorne . 
You know it is absolutely important that Frank should marry money . 
You must acknowledge that such an admixture should be looked on by a De Courcy , or even by a Gresham , as a pollution . ' 
` P. S. -- I am greatly grieved about Frank ; but I have long feared that he would do some very silly thing . 
I know papa would have advised me to marry this man ; and so , I dare say , mamma would , and Frank , and Beatrice , if they knew that I liked him . 
` P. S. I told mamma what you said about Mary Thorne , and she said `` Yes ; I suppose all the world knows it now ; and if all the world did know it , it makes no difference to Frank . '' 
Mr. Mortimer Gazebee was taken into the De Courcy family , and did lead the Lady Amelia to the altar ; and the Gresham twins did go there and act as bridesmaids . 
` Beatrice , ' said Frank , rushing suddenly into his sister 's room , ` I want you to do me one especial favour . ' 
This was three or four days after Frank had seen Mary Thorne . 
Since that time he had spoken to none of his family on the subject ; but he was only postponing from day to day the task of telling his father . 
He had now completed his round of visits to the kennel , master-huntsman , and stables of the county-hunt , and was at liberty to attend to his own affairs . 
So he had decided on speaking to the squire that very day ; but he first made his request to his sister . 
The day had just been fixed , and when Frank ran into her room with his special request , she was not in a humour to refuse him anything . 
` If you wish me to be at your wedding , you must do it , ' said he . 
Oh , Frank ! 
Frank was too much in earnest to joke . 
` You must have Mary for one of your bridesmaids , ' he said . 
` But , Frank -- ' ` Now , Beatrice , do n't have any buts ; say that you will do it , and it will be done : I am sure Oriel will approve , and so will my father . ' 
` But , Frank , you wo n't hear me . ' 
` But , Frank , those are her feelings ; and , to tell the truth , I could not combat them . 
And , to tell you the truth , Frank -- ' ` It was before I came back that you asked her , was it not ? ' 
` Have you , Frank ? ' 
Frank had ever been used to command his sisters ; and they , especially Beatrice , had ever been used to obey . 
` I should be so happy that she should be there ; but what am I to do , Frank , if she refuses ? 
It was so indispensably necessary that Frank should marry money ! 
Frank had now been at home a week , and his father had not as yet spoken to him about the family troubles . 
It had been agreed that Frank should go away for twelve months , in order that he might forget her . 
He had been away the twelvemonth , and had now returned , not having forgotten her . 
So thought the father , but the matter was precipitated by Frank . 
He also had put off the declaration which he had to make , partly from a wish to spare the squire , but partly also with a view to spare himself . 
At this time the discussions as to Beatrice 's wedding were frequent in the house , and at one of them Frank had heard his mother repeat the names of the proposed bridesmaids . 
Mary 's name was not among them , and hence had arisen his attack on his sister . 
` I do n't like to have any secret from you , sir , ' said Frank ; ` nor , for the matter of that , from anybody else ' -- the anybody else was intended to have reference to his mother -- ` and , therefore , I would rather tell you at once what I have made up my mind to do . ' 
Frank 's address was very abrupt , and he felt it was so . 
He was rather red in the face , and his manner was fluttered . 
He had quite made up his mind to break the whole affair to his father ; but he had hardly made up his mind as to the best mode of doing so . 
` Good heavens , Frank ! 
What is it you mean , Frank ? ' 
` I do n't think it is rash , ' said Frank . 
` Nothing immediately , sir , ' said he , rather abashed ; ` but as I have made up my mind about Mary Thorne , quite made up my mind , I think it right to tell you . ' 
And then Frank , in voluble language , which he hardly , however , had quite under his command , told his father all that had passed between him and Mary . 
` You see , sir , ' said he , ` that it is fixed now , and can not be altered . 
Frank 's conduct , as a son , had been such that he could not find fault with it ; and , in this special matter of his love , how was it possible for him to find fault ? 
He , himself , was almost as fond of Mary as of a daughter ; and , though he too would have been desirous that his son should relieve the estate from its embarrassments by a rich marriage , he did not at all share Lady Arabella 's feelings on the subject . 
No Countess de Courcy had ever engraved it on the tablets of his mind , that the world would come to ruin if Frank did not marry money . 
Ruin there was , and would be , but it had been brought about by no sin of Frank 's . 
` Do you remember about her birth , Frank ? ' 
he said , at last . 
Frank had not meant to lean heavily on his father ; but he did do so . 
` It is a misfortune , Frank ; a very great misfortune . 
said Frank , almost with scorn ; ` or what Miss Dunstable 's ? ' 
he would have added , had it not been that his father had not been concerned in that sin of wedding him to the oil of Lebanon . 
` True , Frank . 
` You must take it as you find it , Frank . 
If Porlock were to marry the daughter of a shoe-black , without a farthing , he would make a mésalliance ; but if the daughter of the shoe-black had half a million of money , nobody would dream of saying so . 
Whereas , he , the squire , had succeeded at an earlier age than Frank 's to an unembarrassed income of fourteen thousand pounds a-year . 
` Yes ; I dare say you could have a farm : ' and then he threw himself back in his chair , closing his eyes . 
Then , after a while , he rose again and walked hurriedly about the room . 
` Frank , ' he said , at last , standing opposite to his son , ` I wonder what you think of me ? 
ejaculated Frank . 
Frank , jumping up from his chair , threw his arms round his father 's neck . 
Frank went on pacing the room , till , gradually , his first idea recovered possession of his mind , and the remembrance of his father 's grief faded away . 
` May I tell Mary , ' he said , at last , ` that you consent to our marriage ? 
` I can not say that , Frank ; I can not say that . 
` We would go to Australia , ' answered he , bitterly . 
There is not other one but you , Frank ; and we have lived here now for so many , many years . ' 
For , Frank , it is fatal . 
Frank was again severe on his father , but unwittingly . 
No , Frank , I can not consent to such a marriage ; nor will your mother . ' 
My own Frank , my dear , dear boy , do not drive me to distraction ! 
Frank found it very hard to resist his father , who now had hold of his hand and arm , and was thus half retaining him , and half embracing him . 
` Frank , say that you will forget this for four years -- say for three years . ' 
But Frank would not say so . 
To postpone his marriage for four years , or for three , seemed to him to be tantamount to giving up Mary altogether ; and he would not acknowledge that any one had a right to demand of him to do that . 
` My word is pledged , sir , ' he said . 
` But I will see her , Frank ; and her uncle . 
` Well , Frank , I can say no more to you . 
Frank was greatly distressed . 
He had not any feeling of animosity against his father with reference to the property , and would have done anything to make the squire understand this , short of giving up his engagement to Mary . 
` I should be able to speak in a very different tone ; I feel that Frank . ' 
Soon after this Frank left him . 
He went out , and roamed by himself through the grounds , rather more in meditation than was his wont . 
If he did marry , how was he to live ? 
He talked of a profession ; but had he meant to do as others do , who make their way in professions : he should have thought of that a year or two ago ; or , rather , have done more than think of it . 
He spoke also of a farm , but even that could not be had in a moment ; nor , if it could , would it produce a living . 
Where was his capital ? 
Where his skill ? 
and he might have asked also , where the industry so necessary for such a trade ? 
He might set his father at defiance , and if Mary were equally headstrong with himself , he might marry her . 
As he walked slowly about , cutting off the daisies with his stick , he met Mr. Oriel , going up to the house , as was now his custom , to dine there and spend the evening close to Beatrice . 
he said . 
` Do they not , Frank ? 
On this occasion , however , the servant at once asked him to go into the dining-room , and there he found himself in the presence of Frank Gresham . 
That some one must be the squire , or Frank . 
` Dr. Fillgrave , ' said Frank , shaking hands very cordially as he came up , ` my mother is so much obliged to you for all your care and anxiety on her behalf ; and so , indeed , are we all . ' 
` Oh , yes ; but I must , ' said Frank , who thought that he had done enough for civility , and was now anxious to come to the point . 
Frank had been particularly instructed to be very careful how he mentioned Dr. Thorne 's name , and , therefore , cleverly avoided it . 
What words were those that he heard ? 
he had completely understood what Frank had meant that he should understand . 
Frank desired to be civil , but he had no idea of beating unnecessarily about the bush on such an occasion as this . 
Lunch is coming directly : ' and Frank rang the bell . 
But though Frank could do this for Lady Arabella , he could not receive Dr. Thorne on her behalf . 
A messenger had been sent for him , and he was up stairs with her ladyship while his rival was receiving his congé down stairs . 
She had two objects to accomplish , if it might be possible : she had found that high words with the doctor were of no avail ; but it might be possible that Frank could be saved by humiliation on her part . 
If she humbled herself before this man , would he consent to acknowledge that his niece was not the fit bride for the heir of Greshamsbury ? 
Was he going to own that he , and Mary , and Frank had all been wrong ? 
If it should happen to be a girl , thought Lady Arabella , what an excellent opportunity would that be for Frank to marry money . 
` You can not wonder that we should be anxious about Frank , Dr. Thorne ; an only son , and the heir to an estate that has been so very long in the family : ' and Lady Arabella put her handkerchief to her eyes , as though these facts were in themselves melancholy , and not to be thought of by a mother without some soft tears . 
` Yes ; but about Frank , ' said Lady Arabella . 
` About Frank ! ' 
He was anxious enough that she should be Frank Gresham 's wife , for he loved Frank Gresham ; he was anxious enough , also , that she should give to her husband the means of saving the property of his family . 
But Frank , though he might find her rich , was bound to take her while she was poor . 
Then , also , he doubted whether he would be justified in speaking of this will at all . 
He almost hated the will for the trouble and vexation it had given him , and the constant stress it had laid on his conscience . 
He had spoken of it as yet to no one , and he thought that he was resolved not to do so while Sir Louis should yet be in the land of the living . 
Besides , Mr. Gresham was not a man who could be severe with a son whose individual conduct had been so good as Frank 's . 
This marriage was , in his view , a misfortune to be averted if possible , to be averted by any possible means ; but , as far as Frank was concerned , it was to be regarded rather as a monomania than a crime . 
` I did feel so certain that he would have succeeded with Miss Dunstable , ' said the mother , almost crying . 
` I thought it impossible but that at his age a twelvemonth 's knocking about the world would cure him , ' said the father . 
` Well , it is nonsense to say that Frank is in love with the girl at the doctor 's bidding . ' 
What I say is this , that Dr. Thorne , finding what an easy fool Frank is -- ' ` I do n't think he 's at all easy , my love ; and he certainly is not a fool . ' 
` And then I will speak to Frank , ' said Lady Arabella . 
` As yet he has never had the audacity to open his mouth to me about Mary Thorne , though I believe he declares his love openly to every one else in the house . ' 
And thus it was arranged that all the artillery of Greshamsbury was to be brought to bear at once on Frank 's love , so as to crush it , as it were , by the very weight of metal . 
As he looked at her he could not but acknowledge that it was natural that Frank should love her . 
He had never before seen that she was attractive ; had never had an opinion about it . 
She had grown up as a child under his eye ; and as she had not had the name of being especially a pretty child , he had never thought on the subject . 
Now he saw before him a woman whose every feature was full of spirit and animation ; whose eye sparkled with more than mere brilliancy ; whose face was full of intelligence ; whose very smile was eloquent . 
Was it to be wondered at that Frank should have learned to love her ? 
She would say to herself over and over again , from morning to night , that Frank 's love for her would be , must be , unfortunate ; could not lead to happiness . 
She had before his return made up her mind to be forgotten , and it was so sweet to find that he had been so far from forgetting her . 
` Yes , doctor ; about her and Frank : something must be done , some arrangement made ; if not for our sakes , at least for theirs . ' 
I take it for granted that either Frank or Mary has told you that they have engaged themselves to each other . ' 
` Frank told me so twelve months since . ' 
` But , Dr. Thorne , there is no man on God 's earth who knows my affairs as well as you do ; and , in knowing mine , you know Frank 's . 
After all , he , the squire , was Mr. Gresham of Greshamsbury , generally acknowledged to be the first commoner in Barsetshire ; after all , Frank was his heir , and , in process of time , he would be Mr. Gresham of Greshamsbury . 
Lady Arabella and the girls would be better off , perhaps , than now ; and I sometimes wish , for Frank 's sake , that the time had come . ' 
He was moved to speak , and declared that , of all events , that was the one which would be furthest from Frank 's heart . 
` I know no son , ' said he , ` who loves his father more dearly than he does . ' 
You know , however , that it would be cause of grief to us all to see Frank marry much beneath his station ; that is , I mean in family . 
There was some talk once of Frank 's marrying Miss Dunstable ; did you mean to object to that match ? ' 
I will do nothing to encourage Frank ; nor will I say anything to discourage Mary . ' 
Frank had also repeated his threat , that if Mary were not present , he would absent himself . 
` Oh , but Frank ca n't be in earnest , ' said the lover . 
` Well , I suppose I must do that ; but I know what she 'll say , and Frank will never believe that I have done my best . ' 
I never disliked Mary Thorne , and if she would only let Frank understand that she will not listen to his mad proposals , I should be delighted to see her at Greshamsbury just as she used to be . ' 
Beatrice could say nothing in answer to this ; but she felt very sure that Mary , let her intention be what it might , would not undertake to make Frank understand anything at anybody 's bidding . 
` Is there any truth in what we hear about your being engaged to Frank ? ' 
` But , nevertheless , people talk ; and Frank , who is still quite a boy ' -LRB- Mary 's indignation was not softened by this allusion to Frank 's folly -RRB- , ` seems to have got some nonsense in his head . 
I grieve to say it , but I feel myself in justice bound to do so , that in this matter he has not acted as well as you have done . 
` But it is altogether true , Lady Arabella ; I am engaged to Frank Gresham . ' 
` Engaged to be married to him ? ' 
` Yes ; engaged to be married to him . ' 
` I am engaged to Frank Gresham , ' and having so said , Mary looked her visitor full in the face . 
But do let me ask you , do you think it possible , I say possible , that you and Frank should be married ? ' 
` Of course you know that he has not a shilling in the world . ' 
` Nor will he have were he to do anything so utterly hostile to his father 's wishes . 
If I marry Frank Gresham , it will not be for the property . 
` Not at all too old ; Frank , you know , is `` still quite a boy . 
Think of Frank 's state , and of his father 's state . 
You know enough of that , I am sure , to be well aware that Frank is not in a condition to marry without money . 
Mary , she knew , was obstinate , but yet reasonable ; Frank , she thought , was both obstinate and unreasonable . 
It might be possible to work on Mary 's reason , but quite impossible to touch Frank 's irrationality . 
` I do n't know who has more right ; however , you promise that if Frank wishes it , you will release him from his engagement . ' 
` Release him ! 
It is for him to release me ; that is , if he wishes it . ' 
` Very well ; at any rate , you give him permission to do so . 
If he , in his position , should be the first to speak , the first to suggest that this affair between you is a foolish one , what would people say ? ' 
` What would he think of himself ? ' 
It is according as that may be that he will , or will not act at your bidding . ' 
` Exactly ; and because you know him to be high-minded , because you think that he , having so much to give , will not break his word to you -- to you who have nothing to give in return -- it is , therefore , that you say that the first step must be taken by him . 
She remained standing as long as she heard the footsteps of Frank 's mother on the stairs ; not immediately thinking of what had passed , but still buoying herself up with her hot indignation , as though her work with Lady Arabella was not yet finished ; but when the footfall was no longer heard , and the sound of the closing door told her that she was in truth alone , she sank back in her seat , and , covering her face with her hands , burst into bitter tears . 
All that doctrine about money was horrible to her : that insolent pretence , that she had caught at Frank because of his worldly position , made her all but ferocious ; but Lady Arabella had not the less spoken much that was true . 
She did think of the position which the heir of Greshamsbury should hold in the county , and of the fact that a marriage would mar that position so vitally ; she did think of the old name , and the old Gresham pride ; she did think of the squire and his deep distress : it was true that she had lived among them long enough to understand these things , and to know that it was not possible that this marriage should take place without deep family sorrow . 
And then she asked herself whether , in consenting to accept Frank 's hand , she had adequately considered this ; and she was forced to acknowledge that she had not considered it . 
She had ridiculed Lady Arabella for saying that Frank was still a boy ; but was it not true that his offer had been made with a boy 's energy , rather than a man 's forethought ? 
If so , if she had been wrong to accede to that offer when made , would she not be doubly wrong to hold him to it now that she saw their error ? 
It was doubtless true that Frank himself could not be the first to draw back . 
What would people say of him ? 
If he could not do it , and if , nevertheless , it behoved them to break off this match , by whom was it to be done if not by her ? 
She had thought nothing of these things when that other suitor came , richer far than Frank , to love whom it was as impossible to her as it was not to love him . 
Frank had once held her close to his warm breast ; and her very soul had thrilled with joy to feel that he so loved her , with a joy which she had hardly dared to acknowledge . 
At that moment , her maidenly efforts had been made to push him off , but her heart had grown to his . 
She had acknowledged him to be master of her spirit ; her bosom 's lord ; the man whom she had been born to worship ; the human being to whom it was for her to link her destiny . 
Frank 's acres had been of no account ; nor had his want of acres . 
It might be right that Frank should have an opportunity offered him , so that he might escape from his position without disgrace . 
She would endeavour to give him this opportunity . 
` Dearest Frank , ' she began . 
` Dearest Frank , ` Your mother has been here talking to me about our engagement . 
If so , if you think so , dear Frank , do not have scruples on my account . 
` God bless you , dearest Frank . 
When she had finished her letter , she addressed it plainly , in her own somewhat-bold handwriting , to Francis N. Gresham , Jun. , Esq. , and then took it herself to the little village post-office . 
When she took it to the post-office , she doubtless thought that the baker 's wife had nothing to do but to send it up to the house at Greshamsbury , and that Frank would receive it that evening , or , at latest , early on the following morning . 
Sunday was always a dies non with the Greshamsbury Mercury , and , consequently , Frank 's letter was not delivered at the house till Monday morning ; at which time , Mary had for two long days been waiting with weary heart for the expected answer . 
Now Frank had on that morning gone up to London by the early train , with his future brother-in-law , Mr. Oriel . 
` Nonsense , ' Frank had answered . 
` Here is a letter for Frank , ' said he , ` posted in the village . 
You had better send it to him : ' and he threw the letter across the table to Beatrice . 
` Frank said , that if any letters came they were to be kept , ' said his sister Sophy . 
` He told me so particularly . 
I do n't think he likes having letters sent after him . ' 
` I shall be writing to Frank myself , ' she said , ` and will send it to him . ' 
All that day it lay upon her desk , and all the next , for she could hardly bring herself to part with it ; but on the Wednesday it was sent -- sent with these lines from herself : -- ` Dearest , dearest Frank , I send you a letter which has come by the post from Mary Thorne . 
She did send it to Frank enclosed in a letter from herself . 
We must resort to the next chapter for what had taken place between Frank and his mother ; but , for the present , we will return to the doctor 's house . 
Mary said not a word to him about the letter ; but , keeping silent on the subject , she felt wretchedly estranged from him . 
` Is anything the matter , Mary , ' he said to her on the Sunday afternoon . 
` You know , uncle , you know ; silent about him -- silent about Frank ! ' 
What was he to say to this ? 
It was true that he had never counselled her ; never shown her what course she should take ; had never even spoken to her about her lover . 
I have thought , do still think , that circumstances will admit of your marriage with Frank if you both love each other , and can both be patient . ' 
With such a letter as that before him , Frank could not do other than consent to her proposal . 
And then , why did he not at least answer it ? 
This must be done before he said a word to her or to any of the Gresham family ; but it must be done instantly , so that all suspense might be at an end as soon as possible . 
He must , of course , remain with Lady Scatcherd till the funeral should be over ; but when that office should be complete , he would start instantly for London . 
In resolving to tell no one as to Mary 's fortune till after he had fortified himself with legal warranty , he made one exception . 
He thought it rational that he should explain to Lady Scatcherd who was now the heir under her husband 's will ; and he was the more inclined to do so , from feeling that the news would probably be gratifying to her . 
There were but three people left in the world that she could love : her fosterchild -- Frank Gresham -- Mary Thorne , and the doctor . 
If the money went to Mary , it would of course go to Frank , for she now knew that they loved each other ; and if it went to them , would not the doctor have his share also ; such share as he might want ? 
Could she have governed the matter , she would have given it all to Frank ; and now it would be as well bestowed . 
We must now go back a little and describe how Frank had been sent off on special business to London . 
Mr. Mortimer Gazebee , rejected though he had been , still went and came , talking much to the squire , much also to her ladyship , as to the ill-doings which were in the course of projection by Sir Louis ; and Frank went about the house with clouded brow , as though finally resolved to neglect his one great duty . 
The question of the squire 's necessary journey to the great fountains of justice was , of course , discussed between Lady Arabella and Mr. Gazebee ; and it occurred to the former , full as she was of Frank 's iniquity and of Mary 's obstinacy , that if Frank were sent up in lieu of his father , it would separate them at least for a while . 
If she could only get Frank away without seeing his love , she might yet so work upon him , by means of the message which Mary had sent , as to postpone , if not break off , this hateful match . 
It was inconceivable that a youth of twenty-three , and such a youth as Frank , should be obstinately constant to a girl possessed of no great beauty -- so argued Lady Arabella to herself -- and who had neither wealth , birth , nor fashion to recommend her . 
And thus it was at last settled -- the squire being a willing party to the agreement -- that Frank should go up and be badgered in lieu of his father . 
At his age it was possible to make it appear a thing desirable , if not necessary -- on account of the importance conveyed -- to sit day after day in the chambers of Messrs. Slow and Bideawhile , and hear musty law-talk , and finger dusty law-parchments . 
Frank had not hitherto been there on his own bottom , and thus he fell easily into the trap . 
` Mr. Oriel was also going to London , and this was another reason for sending Frank . 
But Mr. Oriel was quite on Lady Arabella 's side with reference to this mad engagement , and as Frank and he were now fast friends , some good might be done in that way . 
` If we all caution him against it , he can hardly withstand us all , ' said Lady Arabella to herself . 
The matter was broached to Frank on the Saturday evening , and settled between them all that same night . 
About eleven o'clock , Frank was sitting in his own room , conning over the difficulties of his situation -- thinking of his father 's troubles , and his own position -- when he was roused from his reverie by a slight tap at the door . 
` Come in , ' said he , somewhat loudly . 
He thought it was one of his sisters , who were apt to visit him at all hours and for all manner of reasons ; and he , though he was usually gentle to them , was not at present exactly in a humour to be disturbed . 
The door gently opened , and he saw his mother standing hesitating in the passage . 
` Can I come in , Frank ? ' 
` Oh , yes , mother ; by all means : ' and then , with some surprise marked in his countenance , he prepared a seat for her . 
Such a visit as this from Lady Arabella was very unusual ; so much so , that he had probably not seen her in his own room since the day when he first left school . 
He had nothing , however , to be ashamed of ; nothing to conceal , unless it was an open letter from Miss Dunstable which he had in his hand when she entered , and which he somewhat hurriedly thrust into his pocket . 
` I wanted to say a few words to you , Frank , before you start for London about this business . ' 
Frank signified , by a gesture , that he was quite ready to listen to her . 
` No , Frank , I will not ; I do not wish it . 
Frank began to fear that no good could be coming when his mother spoke in that strain . 
` I will do the best I can , ' said he , ` up in town . 
Poor Frank ; I so often feel for you when I think how the property has dwindled . ' 
` They are so slow , dear Frank . 
` That would n't suit me at all , ' said Frank . 
Frank 's brow again grew black , for he knew that his mother was about to say something which it would be disagreeable for him to hear . 
` Do n't be angry with me , Frank : you ca n't but know that the fate of an only son must be a subject of anxiety to a mother . ' 
Frank had laughed at her stern behests , though he had half obeyed them ; but he was touched to the heart by her humility . 
He drew his chair nearer to her , and took her by the hand . 
But she , disengaging hers , parted the hair from off his forehead , and kissed his brow . 
` Oh , Frank , ' she said , ` I have been so proud of you , am still so proud of you . 
` No , Frank ; I will not -- no , I will not ; not another word . 
And now , Frank -- ' Before we go on we must say one word further as to Lady Arabella 's character . 
When Frank spoke of a profession , she instantly thought of what Lord de Courcy might do for him . 
A profession -- hard work , as a doctor , or as an engineer -- would , according to her ideas , degrade him ; cause him to sink below his proper position ; but to dangle at a foreign court , to make small talk at the evening-parties of a lady ambassadress , and occasionally , perhaps , to write demi-official notes , containing demi-official tittle-tattle ; this would be in proper accordance with the high honour of a Gresham of Greshamsbury . 
` And now , Frank -- ' She looked wistfully into his face as she addressed him , as though half afraid to go on , and begging that he would receive with complaisance whatever she found herself forced to say . 
` No , Frank ; you wrong me . 
Think of your position , Frank , and what means you have of keeping her . 
` I mean as regards money , Frank ; you know I mean that ; how are you to live ? 
Oh , Frank ! 
Frank ! ' 
Now , Frank , listen to me . 
Frank promised that he would listen patiently ; but he looked anything but patient as he said so . 
` And do you think -- ' ` Wait a moment , Frank , and listen to me . 
`` I have nothing , '' she said -- those were her own words -- `` I have nothing to say in favour of this engagement , except that he wishes it . '' 
`` His wishes are not a reason ; but a law , '' she said -- ' ` And , mother , would you have me desert such a girl as that ? ' 
` It is not deserting , Frank : it would not be deserting ; you would be doing that which she herself approves of . 
Oh , Frank , I will go on my knees to you if you will listen to me . ' 
` You should think twice , Frank , before you refuse the only request your mother ever made you . 
` But she is not your wife , Frank ; and she knows that she ought not to be . 
` No , Frank ; I do not mean to say that you do not love her . 
Frank sat silent for a moment or two while his mother , with a look almost of agony , gazed into his face . 
` I will ask no one , ' at last he said . 
Oh , Frank ! 
` No , Frank , I will not let you ruin yourself ; I will not let you destroy yourself . 
` No , Frank , no ; grant me that trifle , at any rate . 
To so much Frank consented after some further parley ; namely , that he would proceed to London on the following Monday morning without again seeing Mary . 
And in the meantime , she was waiting with sore heart for his answer to that letter which was lying , and was still to lie for so many hours , in the safe protection of the Silverbridge postmaster . 
It may seem strange ; but , in truth , his mother 's eloquence had more effect on Frank than that of his father : and yet , with his father he had always sympathised . 
But his mother had been energetic ; whereas , his father , if not lukewarm , had , at any rate , been timid . 
` I will ask no one , ' Frank had said in the strong determination of his heart ; and yet the words were hardly out of his mouth before he bethought himself that he would talk the thing over with Harry Baker . 
After breakfast Frank went with the family to church , as was usual ; and there , as usual , he saw Mary in Dr. Thorne 's pew . 
She , as she looked at him , could not but wonder why he had not answered the letter which was still at Silverbridge ; and he endeavoured to read in her face whether it was true , as his mother had told him , that she was quite ready to give him up . 
It was not unusual with Frank and his father to go round , after the service , to the chief entrance , so that they might speak to their neighbours , and get rid of some of the exclusiveness which was intended for them . 
On this morning the squire did so ; but Frank walked home with his mother and sisters , so that Mary saw no more of him . 
I have said that he walked home with his mother and his sisters ; but he rather followed in their path . 
He was not inclined to talk much , at least , not to them ; and he continued asking himself the question -- whether it could be possible that he was wrong in remaining true to his promise ? 
Could it be that he owed more to his father and his mother , and what they chose to call his position , than he did to Mary ? 
After church , Mr. Gazebee tried to get hold of him , for there was much still to be said , and many hints to be given , as to how Frank should speak , and , more especially , as to how he should hold his tongue among the learned pundits in and about Chancery-lane . 
But Frank would not hearken to him just at that moment . 
He was going to ride over to Harry Baker , so he put Mr. Gazebee off till the half-hour before dinner , or else the half-hour after tea . 
Had Frank been asked beforehand , he would have declared , that on no possible subject could he have had the slightest hesitation in asking Harry any question , or communicating to him any tidings . 
` You see , Frank , there are two sides to every question ; and , as I take it , fellows are so apt to go wrong because they are so fond of one side , they wo n't look at the other . 
` I 'll play it straight forward ; that 's my game , ' said Frank . 
` I could fling it away to-morrow , ' said Frank . 
You do care for Greshamsbury if you are the fellow I take you to be : care for it , very much ; and you care too for your father being Gresham of Greshamsbury . ' 
There can be no doubt about it , Frank , my boy : such a marriage would be very foolish for you both ; very foolish . 
Frank sat a while on his rustic seat , paring his nails with his penknife , and then looking up , he thus thanked his friend : -- ` I 'm sure you mean well , Harry ; and I 'm much obliged to you . 
` Well , Frank , you may count on me for anything , except the last proposition : ' and so they shook hands , and Frank rode back to Greshamsbury . 
On the Monday morning at six o'clock , Mr. Oriel and Frank started together ; but early as it was , Beatrice was up to give them a cup of coffee : Mr. Oriel having slept that night in the house . 
Whether Frank would have received his coffee from his sister 's fair hands had not Mr. Oriel been there , may be doubted . 
Mr. Oriel had been specially instigated by Lady Arabella to use the opportunity of their joint journey , for pointing out to Frank the iniquity as well as madness of the course he was pursuing ; and he had promised to obey her ladyship 's behests . 
He did intend to do as he was bid ; but when he began , with the object of leading up to the subject of Frank 's engagement , he always softened down into some much easier enthusiasm in the matter of his own engagement with Beatrice . 
He had not that perspicuous , but not over sensitive strength of mind which had enabled Harry Baker to express his opinion out at once ; and boldly , as he did it , yet to do so without offence . 
His intention , however , was very good , for he intended to show , that in his case marriage was prudent and wise , because his case differed so widely from that of Frank . 
` Yes , ' said Frank . 
` She is an excellent good girl : ' he had said it three times before , and was not very energetic . 
` You must n't expect her to look like that always at six o'clock a. m. , ' said Frank , laughing . 
` Oh , yes , of course ; that is , I am sure she is , ' said Frank , looking solemn as became him . 
` Well , so it seems , ' said Frank . 
And so Mr. Oriel 's last attempt for lecturing Frank in the railway-carriage faded away and was annihilated . 
By twelve o'clock Frank was with Messrs. Slow and Bideawhile . 
` Yes ; very singular , ' said Frank . 
` Excellent security , excellent ; no better : and yet he will foreclose ; but you see he has no power himself . 
So it turned out , and Frank was ushered into the august presence of Mr. Bideawhile . 
He had got his lesson by heart , and was going to rush into the middle of his subject ; such a course , however , was not in accordance with Mr. Bideawhile 's usual practice . 
Frank took hold of the hand , which returned him no pressure , and then let it go again , not making any attempt to gather the fruit . 
` I have come up to town , Mr. Bideawhile , about this mortgage , ' commenced Frank . 
` No , ' said Frank ; ` not very often . ' 
Frank said he had been in Switzerland . 
` Yes , ' said Frank ; ' a great many . ' 
Frank , thinking it would be outrageous on his part to take up much of the time of a gentleman who was constrained to work so unreasonably hard , began again to talk about his mortgages , and , in so doing , had to mention the name of Mr. Yates Umbleby . 
Frank said that he believed Mr. Yates Umbleby had something wherewith to keep the wolf from the door . 
And then he got so mad with drinking that we all thought -- ' And so Mr. Bideawhile went on for two hours , and Frank found no opportunity of saying one word about the business which had brought him up to town . 
During these two hours , a clerk had come in three or four times , whispering something to the lawyer , who , on the last of such occasions , turned to Frank , saying , ` Well , perhaps that will do for to-day . 
Frank , declaring that the morrow would suit him very well , took his departure , wondering much at the manner in which business was done at the house of Messrs. Slow and Bideawhile . 
When he called the next day , the office seemed to be rather disturbed , and he was shown quickly into Mr. Bideawhile 's room . 
Frank immediately knew that these tidings must be of importance to his father ; but he had no idea how vitally it concerned his own more immediate interests . 
And so Frank , pondering on the mutability of human affairs , again took his departure . 
Frank also got a note from Dr. Thorne , stating that he had taken up his temporary domicile at the Gray 's Inn coffee-house , so as to be near the lawyers . 
But it was not quite at once that those tidings made themselves absolutely certain to Dr. Thorne 's mind ; nor was he able to express any such opinion when he first met Frank in London . 
At that time Mary 's letter was in Frank 's pocket ; and Frank , though his real business appertained much more to the fact of Sir Louis 's death , and the effect that that would immediately have on his father 's affairs , was much more full of what so much more nearly concerned himself . 
Dr. Thorne was stretched fast asleep on the comfortless horse-hair sofa in the dingy sitting-room at the Gray 's Inn coffee-house when Frank found him . 
The funeral , and his journey to London , and the lawyers had together conquered his energies , and he lay and snored , with nose upright , while heavy London summer flies settled on his head and face , and robbed his slumbers of half their charms . 
` I beg your pardon , ' said he , jumping up as though he had been detected in some disgraceful act . 
` Upon my word , Frank , I beg your pardon ; but -- well , my dear fellow , all well at Greshamsbury -- eh ? ' 
and as he shook himself , he made a lunge at one uncommonly disagreeable fly that had been at him for the last ten minutes . 
It is hardly necessary to say that he missed his enemy . 
It is a madness , Frank ; the worst of madness . 
` It has been very quickly run , ' said Frank . 
` May it be all forgiven him ! 
Frank had put his hand four or five times into his breast-pocket , and had as often taken out and put back again Mary 's letter before he could find himself able to bring Dr. Thorne to the subject . 
At last there was a lull in the purely legal discussion , caused by the doctor intimating that he supposed Frank would now soon return to Greshamsbury . 
When Frank again turned round from the window , the doctor 's handkerchief was up to his eyes ; who , in order to hide the tears that were there , was obliged to go through a rather violent process of blowing his nose . 
` Well , ' he said , as he gave back the letter to Frank . 
or would it be well , were he , Frank , to comply with the suggestion made to him by Mary ? 
` It is impossible , ' he said , ` that matters should go on like that . 
demanded Frank , with energy . 
` You see , Frank , I have never interfered in this matter , otherwise than to tell you the whole truth about Mary 's birth . ' 
And Frank bethought him of all Miss Dunstable 's offers . 
Frank , as he spoke , was walking rapidly about the room ; and he brought out his different propositions , one after the other , with a little pause , while waiting for the doctor 's answer . 
The doctor was sitting , with the letter still in his hands , on the head of the sofa , turning over in his mind the apparent absurdity of Frank 's desire to borrow two thousand pounds for a farm , when , in all human probability , he might in a few months be in possession of almost any sum he should choose to name . 
And yet he would not tell him of Sir Roger 's will . 
said he to himself . 
` Do you wish me to give her up ? ' 
said Frank , at last . 
How can I expect a better match for her ? 
Besides , Frank , I love no man in the world so well as I do you . ' 
` Look here , Frank ; you ask me for my advice , and I will give it you : go home ; though , indeed , I would rather you went anywhere else . ' 
And , Frank , mind you bring your father with you . ' 
Frank could draw nothing further from his friend save constant repetitions of this charge to him to wait a fortnight , just one other fortnight . 
` Well , I will come to you at any rate , ' said Frank ; ` and , if possible , I will bring my father . 
` Your own dearest , ` Frank . 
She did call him dearest Frank , even on that one day , almost as often as he had desired her . 
Frank returned home , and his immediate business was of course with his father , and with Mr. Gazebee , who was still at Greshamsbury . 
asked Mr. Gazebee , when Frank had explained that the death of Sir Louis rendered unnecessary any immediate legal steps . 
` Upon my word I do n't know , ' said Frank . 
` He must have known . ' 
` I never thought of asking him , ' said Frank , naïvely . 
` I wonder at that , ' said he ; ` for everything now depends on the hands the property will go into . 
Immediately after his return , Frank saw Mary , and told her all that happened . 
He told me , Frank -- that was after I had written that unfortunate letter -- ' ` Unfortunate , indeed ! 
To say that you would never call me Frank again ! ' 
It may be well supposed that Lady Arabella was not well pleased to learn that Frank and Mary had been again together ; and , in the agony of her spirit , she did say some ill-natured things before Augusta , who had now returned from Courcy Castle , as to the gross impropriety of Mary 's conduct . 
But to Frank she said nothing . 
Nor was there much said between Frank and Beatrice . 
It was not by the violence of his appeal that Frank succeeded in obtaining from his father a sort of half-consent that he would no longer oppose the match ; but by the assiduity with which the appeal was repeated . 
Frank , as we have said , had more stubbornness of will than his father ; and so , before the fortnight was over , the squire had been talked over , and had promised to attend at the doctor 's bidding . 
But , Frank , where will you live ? 
At the end of his fortnight , true to his time , the doctor returned to the village . 
He was a bad correspondent ; and though he had written some short notes to Mary , he had said no word to her about his business . 
It was late in the evening when he got home , and it was understood by Frank and the squire that they were to be with him on the following morning . 
It was late in the evening when he got home , and Mary waited for him with a heart almost sick with expectation . 
As soon as the fly had stopped at the little gate she heard his voice , and heard at once that it was quick , joyful , and telling much of inward satisfaction . 
He had a good-natured word for Janet , and called Thomas an old blunderhead in a manner that made Bridget laugh outright . 
She soon found that his manner was more than ordinarily kind to her ; and there was moreover something about him which seemed to make him sparkle with contentment , but he said no word about Frank , nor did he make any allusion to the business which had taken him up to town . 
she said to him once . 
` Oh , no , I am not , ' said she , as she went on continually filling his cup ; ` but I am so happy to have you home again . 
` If he were very rich , he might do something to assist Frank ; and then -- ' There never was a fox yet without a tail who would not be delighted to find himself suddenly possessed of that appendage . 
The death of his young creditor might be supposed to have given him some relief from his more pressing cares , but the necessity of yielding to Frank 's wishes had almost more than balanced this . 
But Frank was well ; both in health and spirits . 
He also felt as Mary did , that the day was to bring forth something which should end his present troubles ; and he could not but be happy to think that he could now tell Dr. Thorne that his father 's consent to his marriage had been given . 
At last , the squire remarked that Frank had been talking to him about Miss Thorne . 
Frank drew near to his father , and pressed his hand against the squire 's arm , by way of giving him , in some sort , a filial embrace for his kindness . 
She is a good girl , and if Frank chooses to take her , he will , in my estimation , have made a good choice . ' 
said Frank , with all the enthusiasm of a lover . 
` I have told Frank so , and I think that you should tell Mary . 
Frank means to take some land into his hand , and he must farm it as a farmer . 
` And now , Frank , ' said the doctor , not attending to the squire 's last words , ` what do you say ? ' 
` Mr. Gresham , ' said he , interrupting Frank , ` of course I am well aware how very little suited Mary is by birth to marry your only son . ' 
` If I am satisfied in that matter -- ' began Frank . 
` We need not talk about that now , Dr. Thorne , ' said Frank , in an almost angry tone . 
` But I must , Frank , for one moment , to justify myself . 
` Well ; good will come of it , ' said Frank , who did not quite understand at what the doctor was driving . 
Frank -- Mr. Gresham -- ' and then Dr. Thorne rose from his chair ; but was , for a moment , unable to go on with his tale . 
` I am sure it is , ' said Frank . 
I do think it is ; I am sure it is , Frank . 
Mr. Gresham , this marriage will , at any rate , put an end to your pecuniary embarrassments -- unless , indeed , Frank should prove a hard creditor . 
Look here ; these are the Boxall Hill title-deeds ; that 's the simplest part of the whole affair ; and Frank may go and settle himself there to-morrow if he pleases . ' 
` Stop a moment , Dr. Thorne , ' said Frank . 
These were the only words which he had yet uttered since the tidings had been conveyed to him . 
As I can not return them to you , you will have to wait till Frank shall give them up . ' 
` But , Dr. Thorne , ' said Frank . 
Go up to her , Frank ; she is in the drawing-room . ' 
Frank went to the door , and then hesitated , and returned . 
` I could not do it , ' said he . 
I am so bewildered that I could not tell her , ' and he sat down at the table , and began to sob with emotion . 
I thought that I would keep the pleasure of telling her for Frank . ' 
` Come , Frank , go up to her , ' again urged the doctor . 
` I can not do it , ' said Frank , after a pause of some moments ; ` nor is it right that I should . 
` It has been left -- ' ` To Frank ! 
She was at first afraid to advance , but when she did look up , and saw Frank standing alone by the window , her lover restored her courage , and rushing up to him , she threw herself into his arms . 
` Oh , Frank ! 
my own Frank ! 
my own Frank ! 
And thus after all did Frank perform his great duty : he did marry money ; or rather , as the wedding has not yet taken place , and is , indeed , as yet hardly talked of , we should more properly say that he had engaged himself to marry money . 
But there was another to be fêted , another person to be made a personage , another blessed human mortal about to do her duty by the family of Gresham in a manner that deserved , and should receive , Lady Arabella 's warmest caresses . 
Frank , I know , stayed and dined there , and his poor mother , who would not retire to rest till she had kissed him , and blessed him , and thanked him for all that he was doing for the family , was kept waiting in her dressing-room till a very unreasonable hour of the night . 
Frank would now certainly be the first commoner in Barsetshire ; of course he would represent the county ; of course there would be the house in town ; it would n't be her house , but she was contented that the grandeur should be that of her child . 
He would have heaven knows what to spend per annum . 
I know it is useless saying anything to Frank . ' 
And how slept Frank that night ? 
Frank had loved her so truly when she was so poor , such an utter castaway . 
Frank , who had ever been the heir of Greshamsbury . 
Frank , who with his beauty , and spirit , and his talents might have won the smiles of the richest , the grandest , the noblest ! 
What lady 's heart would not have rejoiced to be allowed to love her Frank ! 
` Dear , dear Frank , ' she murmured as her waking dreams , conquered at last by sleep , gave way to those of the fairy world . 
But she thought not only of Frank ; dreamed not only of him . 
What had he not done for her , that uncle of hers , who had been more loving to her than any father ! 
He had been asleep for the last three-quarters of an hour ; but Frank , his guest , had felt no offence . 
` No , I 've not been exactly asleep , ' said he ; ` but I 'm very tired . 
I would n't do it all again , Frank , to double the money . 
` She is entitled to every courtesy -- as Frank 's accepted bride , you know , ' said Lady Arabella . 
` I would not for worlds fail in any respect to her for his sake . ' 
` He will be glad enough for her to come , I am sure , ' said Beatrice . 
You do n't seem to realize the importance , my dear , of Frank 's marriage . 
He will be in a great hurry about it , and , indeed , I can not blame him . 
The idea of the parson 's Sundays being allowed to have any bearing on such matter as Frank 's wedding would now become ! 
` Frank will think that I come after him . ' 
` Never mind what he thinks . 
my Frank 's own bride ! 
` Mr. Gresham told me yesterday that I should be received as Frank 's future wife ; and so , you see , I have come . ' 
` You have no business in here at all , Frank , ' said Beatrice . 
` Has he , Mary ? ' 
` See what he has done to my poplin ; I hope you wo n't have your things treated so cruelly . 
He 'll be careful enough about them . ' 
asked Frank . 
` He is , at any rate , too well behaved to spoil it . ' 
` Of course , he will be talking to Frank about politics . 
I suppose the squire wo n't expect Frank to belong to the old school now . ' 
` Frank , of course , will judge for himself , Rosina ; with his position , you know . ' 
It was spring , the early spring , before Frank was made altogether a happy man . 
If Frank became tenant intail , in right of his wife , but under his father , would he be able to grant leases for more than twenty-one years ? 
All this bewildered the doctor sadly , and Frank himself began to make accusations that he was to be done out of his wife altogether . 
Frank should be lord of Boxall Hill in his own right ; and as to those other liens on Greshamsbury , let Frank manage that with his father as he might think fit . 
She would only trouble herself to see that he was empowered to do as he did think fit . 
` If you make a point of it , or Frank , or Mr. Gresham , I will go ; but I ca n't see any possible reason . ' 
The doctor , when so appealed to , would not absolutely say that he made a point of it , and Mary was tolerably safe as regarded Frank or the squire . 
If she went , Frank would be expected to go , and Frank disliked Courcy Castle almost more than ever . 
His aunt was now more than civil to him , and , when they were together , never ceased to compliment him on the desirable way in which he had done his duty by his family . 
And so by degrees the winter wore away -- very slowly to Frank , as he declared often enough ; and slowly , perhaps , to Mary also , though she did not say so . 
He has been so very handsome to Frank , that I would n't make him angry for all the world . ' 
` If you do n't tell him anything about it , Lady Arabella , he 'll think that it is all done properly . 
He will never know , if he 's not told , that he ought to give the breakfast , and not you . ' 
` Wo n't he , my dear ? ' 
` I hope we shall induce you to come to Gatherum Castle soon , ' said the duke to Frank . 
Frank was not very cordial with his answer . 
He had not quite reconciled himself to the difference of his position . 
When he was treated as one of the collection at Gatherum Castle , he had not married money . 
And there was the countess , who , for the last week past had done nothing but pat Frank on the back whenever she could catch him . 
And the Honourable George , talking in whispers to Frank about his widow -- ` Not such a catch as yours , you know ; but something extremely snug ; and have it all my own way , too , old fellow , or I sha n't come to the scratch . ' 
And the Honourable John prepared to toady Frank about his string of hunters ; and the Lady Amelia , by herself , not quite contented with these democratic nuptials -- ` After all , she is so absolutely nobody ; absolutely , absolutely , ' she said confidentially to Augusta , shaking her head . 
The last time they had all met together under the squire 's roof , was on the occasion of Frank 's coming of age . 
` And now that she will be a Gresham , that need not be any longer thought of . ' 
Nevertheless , could Miss Thorne have spoken her inward thoughts out loud , she would have declared , that Frank would have done better to have borne his poverty than marry wealth without blood . 
` The truth is , ' said Miss Dunstable , ` I have always been a little in love with your Frank , and so I shall do it for his sake . ' 
There were but four : the other two were the Gresham twins . 
And thus Frank married money , and became a great man . 
Let us hope that he will be a happy man . 
