Walter Erdolf Paradyne held of Henry the second in capite ; and having delivered up one of the king 's castles when nothing was left in it to eat , the monarch ordered him into close custody in the castle of Winchester . 
When the antiquity of a family is once established , it seldom renders any very material service to it to enquire why the original honours were bestowed , or how supported ; satisfied , therefore , with having built upon a solid foundation , the right of looking down upon the common herd ; I pass over from the reign of Henry the second to that of George the third , without taking the trouble to make comparisons . 
Disposed nearly in the same manner , were the feelings of Mr. George , now Sir George Paradyne , a student at Oxford . 
A strong addiction to science had hitherto been his guard against libertinism , without having weakened the social affections . 
He felt his loss ; and was little inclined to admit the rich succession he became heir to , as an alleviation . 
When he arrived at Dennington , he found himself more disposed to a soft sympathy with his sister , than to adopt the mode of sorrow Lady Mary had chosen . 
Sir George Paradyne , now in his twenty-first year , had been designed for the church , had subscribed to the thirty-nine articles , which he perfectly understood , that is , as perfectly as those who made them ; and was upon the point of declaring his call to the ministry by the holy spirit , when the news of this family misfortune reached him . 
It was not till three months after , he could resume this divine consideration ; and then he perceived clearly his call was gone ; and that the spirit had quite abandoned him -- so hard is it for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven . 
Lord Auschamp had the mortification to find Sir George a most indocile scholar in the great school of politics . 
On the other hand , Sir George , warm with the ideas of Greece and Rome , began to suspect that his uncle was little of a statesman and less of a patriot ; that his morals were versatile ; and his manners affected . 
So he determined to confine his reverence to the exterior respect due to the brother of his mother , but by no means to consider him as a model for himself . 
Something of this was perceptible to Lord Auschamp , who knowing the force of early impressions , and the importance Sir George might be of to him in his political capacity ; communicated his opinions to Lady Mary . 
That gentle sister concurred with her brother in thinking it expedient Sir George should travel . 
Sir George assented to the proposal willingly ; for over and above the pleasures the idea of travelling presents to youthful minds , the temper of Lady Mary made it a difficult task to him to treat her with all the attention and respect her maternal relation demanded . 
It was his lordship 's department , as he was a courtier , to examine their morals ; her ladyship 's , as she was a lady , their manners , and Sir George , with all the sapience of twenty years and a half , undertook the article of wisdom . 
In short , the difficulty of choice was so great , that it is probable none would ever have been made , had not chance , or what we are pleased to call so , determined Sir George to make his own election . 
One Mr. Lagray , a mathematical instrument maker , had got into the king 's bench prison for certain failures of payment ; occasioned , as he afterwards assured Sir George , by the misfortune of having Lords for customers . 
He was a very honest man , his scales were very exact , and he had a very pretty daughter , who being of French extraction , had a great deal of French freedom and vivacity . 
Sometimes Sir George amused himself in Mr. Lagray 's workshop ; sometimes in Miss Lagray 's parlour . 
He had too tender a heart to bear to see Miss Lagray weep . 
He had also , for he was yet young in the world , money , liberality , and compassion . 
Sir George went to the king 's bench prison to confer with Mr. Lagray , who having proved , that had he been possessed of x + y + z pounds , he might still have been making diagonals in his own attic story , Sir George agreed to replace him there . 
Whilst they were standing in a corner of the area , considering the steps necessary to procure Mr. Lagray 's freedom , Sir George saw a middle aged gentleman pass by , in company with another , too gaily dressed to be thought an inhabitant of any prison . 
Sir George asked Mr. Lagray if he knew him ? 
By the keeper of the prison , Sir George was informed that Mr. Lindsay was the son of a clergyman ; and thrown into prison by his father 's widow , for a debt of fifty pounds . 
That he was visited occasionally by respectable people , some of whom had in his hearing solicited leave to pay the debt . 
These were in Bloomsbury , at the house of a widow , who burst into tears at the mention of Mr. Lindsay , and spoke of him in terms which increased Sir George 's respect for his character . 
Repairing the next day to the prison and calling for a room , he sent to request Mr. Lindsay 's company ; and having an idea -LRB- would all men had it -RRB- that a person in Mr. Lindsay 's situation ought to be treated with peculiar delicacy , began the conversation with an apology for the liberty he had presumed to take ; but that his character had inspired him with the desire of soliciting his friendship . 
Mr. Lindsay , who knew the world , and did not believe that motives of mere benevolence could induce a young man of Sir George 's gay appearance to seek him in prison , answered politely , but with some coldness and reserve . 
`` Mr. Lindsay , says Sir George , you do right to repress my presumption . 
`` So far , Mr. Lindsay , answered Sir George , you are perfectly right . '' 
`` Nothing in the world , says Sir George , but to ingraft your knowledge upon my ignorance ; your experience upon my want of it . '' 
`` Oh , says Sir George , smiling , you have a competent idea of its nature . '' 
`` That indeed , says Sir George , is the most difficult of all government . 
`` So it is , says Sir George , men draw conclusions . 
`` Excellent , says Sir George ; this is precisely what I want , I love the world too well , especially the fairer part of it . 
`` No -- replies Sir George . 
`` A friend , Sir George ? 
`` Oh , replies Sir George , I could find plenty of friends with hearts open to profess , and hands open to receive , the common currency of coffee-houses and taverns . 
`` Oh , you need not , says Sir George , have crossed the seas for a comparison . 
The gentleman dined together , and before they parted , Mr. Lindsay consented to Sir George 's request ; in consequence of which , the following day he was in possession of his old lodgings , which happened fortunately to be unoccupied . 
Sir George , eager in the execution of a scheme , formed by the concurring powers of wisdom and benevolence , proposed Mr. Lindsay on the next day , to Lady Mary , and Lord Auschamp , relating at the same time , the manner in which he became acquainted with him , and dwelling largely on his good sense , his candour , and integrity . 
Lady Mary was passive ; Lord Auschamp desired to see him : Although , says he , I am unable to comprehend how a jail can be a good seminary for tutors -- and I , says Lady Mary , suppose the man may do very well to teach boys their letters ; but really , Sir George , you have already too much college rust about you . 
`` Sir George Paradyne , Mr. Lindsay , is a young man of vast fortune , and great political connections . 
Sir George is going to make the grand tour . 
It is to be wished he may return rather with an enlarged than a diminished affection for his own country . '' 
Whilst Mr. Lindsey was assuring Sir George , that Lord Auschamp would oppose his schemes with respect to himself ; and whilst Sir George was wondering how Lindsay could draw such a presage from a discourse which seemed to promise the contrary , Lady Mary received the following note : `` I have conversed with Lindsay , the person on whom Sir George was so lavish in his encomiums . 
My opinion is , that he is , as your Ladyship justly observed , very well to teach letters to boys , but by no means to introduce into the world the son of Lady Mary Paradyne , and the nephew of the Earl of Auschamp . '' 
Sir George had great power of accommodation -- at his banker 's . 
`` Sir George , '' says she , `` my dear , your uncle , Lord Auschamp , does not like Mr. Lindsay . '' 
`` But I do , Madam , '' answered Sir George . 
`` I wish , Sir George , you were at the age of discretion by nature . '' 
`` What , Sir George -- is it possible you can mean Lord Auschamp ? '' 
-- Sir George did not answer . 
It was Lady Mary 's custom , when she got into the strain of declamation , to persist in it a long time with great rapidity of utterance ; and it was Sir George 's , to hear with respectful silence , and without reply . 
For the first time in his life , in the midst of a long oration , which had become violent and rather abusive , he rose and making his bow , departed . 
Before he was dressed to go out , Lord Auschamp called . 
Sir George , little disposed for a lecture upon the same topic , heard Lord Auschamp 's remarks with more impatience ; supported the character of Mr. Lindsay with a degree of warmth very well authorized by the occasion , but by no means agreeable to the pride of his uncle . 
Sir George Paradyne had his pride also , too much to bear insult or contempt from any man . 
He had discernment too , perhaps sharpened by resentment ; and began to perceive more and more clearly , that Lord Auschamp was not that prodigious luminary he wished to be thought . 
Of this new-born spirit of Sir George , Lady Mary formed a prognostic not favourable to the continuance of her authority ; and Lord Auschamp began to doubt whether he should draw six new members to the court party next sessions , by the influence of his nephew , or not . 
As far as politicians can be convinced they have acted wrong , Lord Auschamp was so , in having forgot that dissimulation was the first and greatest quality of a great man ; and having in consequence , treated Sir George too much en hauteur . 
My fear is , lest he should inspire Sir George with a notion that bon ton air is useless to a gentleman . 
In the mean time , it may be proper that you should take no notice of it to Sir George at present . 
But as it is the fashion -- for all things have fashion -- not now to use force 'till influence fails , Lord Auschamp prepared to try his influence once more , and putting on his aspect of ceremony , began thus : `` I flatter myself , Sir George , I need not make use of many words to convince you that I have your interest sincerely at heart , or that I have any motive for giving my advice but your own good . 
`` So , answered Sir George , so he says himself , and pleads his ignorance as your Lordship does . 
My mother , Lady Mary too , thinks he has had a bad dancing master . 
`` Really , Sir George , answered my Lord , you ought to spare my delicacy on this head . '' 
Although Sir George said this with the most respectful air possible , there was something in it which offended the dignity of Lord Auschamp . 
`` Sir George , '' says he , `` you provoke me to say '' -- A ray of recollection came . 
In the second place , Sir George 's borough interest was very large ; he was a young man of promising talents ; and it was of great importance to Lord Auschamp , that Sir George should enter the political career under his auspices , and that he should gain an ascendency which it would not be easy for Sir George himself to break . 
Lastly , he had learned that Mr. Lindsay was a writer of no small abilities , and that he had exercised his pen , principally , though not constantly , on the side of opposition . 
`` If you call this insult , sir , I have acquired it I think , by my rank , and my affinity to Sir George Paradyne . '' 
Lady Mary Paradyne was the best of mothers ; for she doated upon this dear son ever since he became Sir George , and never omitted her daily precepts to him , to behave with dignity and grace . 
It must be owned they were wanted ; for Sir George had yet only the politeness of good humour , of an obliging temper , and of unaffected ease . 
Of these maternal cares , Sir George began to be weary ; so much the more as they were accompanied with a diffusive oratory ; preceptive when Lady Mary was in good humour , vituperative when she was not ; and always unwilling to come to a close . 
Lady Mary could not conceive that such a man as he would dare to offend such a man as Lord Auschamp , unless encouraged , perhaps prompted , by Sir George , and assured of his support . 
On the first hearing of it , she was almost suffocated with passion ; but as Sir George happened not to be in the way to receive it , it began to subside , and at last sunk into a something , known to the canaille by the name of the sullens ; but in the beau monde , which acknowledges nothing in common with roturius , we must give it the appellation of a dignified anger . 
This agreeable swell of the bosom continued four days , in which time Lady Mary scarce honoured Sir George with a word , or even a look . 
Sir George , who knew the cause but not the remedy , and who liked this mode of reproof , quite as well as the mode oratorial , permitted it quietly to take its course . 
When the servants were withdrawn , Lady Mary took up her fourth glass of madeira , and looking at Sir George with uncommon tenderness , drank his health . 
Sir George bowed . 
`` Do n't be silly Emilia , cries Lady Mary ; I do not mean domestic comfort ; but Sir George is the only remaining support of the honour and dignity of the Paradyne family ; nay , there stands but one life betwixt him and my brother 's earldom ; if that drops , the dignity of his father 's house will be lost in the far superior dignity and splendor of mine . 
Especially since I see my cares in forming you , Sir George , to dignity and honour , are thrown away . 
Lady Mary was now got into her own peculiar strain ; in which , aided by the fifth glass of madeira , she might have kept rolling on , a little eternity , without interruption ; for Sir George made it a point of duty to attend , or seem to attend his mother 's beneficent lectures . 
It is true , this was unusually long , but he considered the four preceding days of silence , and armed himself with a dutiful degree of patience accordingly . 
But , in an instant , when Lady Mary was peculiarly emphatical , Sir George mechanically -- yes certainly mechanically gave the wonted signal to Chloe , who lay at her master 's feet , and sprung up to receive her usual caresses at his hand . 
Sir George was apprised of his error , by the instantaneous cessation of Lady Mary 's eloquence , and looking up at her , saw an increased inflammation upon her cheek , and her eyes sparkling with new fire . 
madam -- says the astonished Sir George , -- am I so unhappy as to be the object of your present anger ? '' 
the very son who ought to give me comfort and consolation in my hapless widowed state , despises me , pays no attention to my advice , though all for his own good -- and -- '' `` Dear madam -- says Sir George -- why do you say this ? 
Sir George bowed and withdrew . 
But Sir George was not at present in the humour to hear . 
Lady Mary gave herself and Sir George so little respite , that he now began to find his days pass without enjoyment , and his nights without repose . 
This Sir George could less bear than his own usage , nor did he know a remedy , such as he durst advise or Miss Paradyne take . 
He determined therefore , as the spring was now come , to take the advice of Mr. Lindsay , to put off his tour abroad till the end of his minority , and to employ the intervening summer , except as much of it as was necessary to become well acquainted with his estates , and to settle a plan of oeconomy equally free from meanness and profusion , in a tour of Great Britain . 
Sir George took leave of his sister with tears , of Lady Mary by a respectful letter , and accompanied by Mr. Lindsay , with each a servant , set out on horseback , and took the road to Dennington , in Sussex , Sir George 's principal country seat . 
I beg the gentlemen minors of the present day will not suppose I mean Sir George Paradyne as a model of duty for them ; I only desire to make his apology . 
The respect he paid to Lady Mary Paradyne would hardly be paid to the queen of England , if her requests took the air of authority ; but Sir George was totally ignorant how slender are now the fashionable ties of affinity . 
Sir George surprised him by a visit ; `` fore George , says he , when you went with your mother to London , I gave you up for lost . 
Of Lady Mary Sir George spoke with great caution , not to give her to his uncle for a subject of exultation . 
He ordered his horse to ride with Sir George to Dennington , on purpose to dine and make an acquaintance with such a spirited and honest fellow -- a man after his own heart . 
Mr. Paradyne thought it good , so far as it drew Sir George away from the auspices of Lord Auschamp and Lady Mary . 
-- `` But as to travelling , George , why I think looking at other people 's estates not so good as cultivating one 's own . 
Look at me George ; -- I am fifty-eight next birth-day ; -- I can rise with the sun and hunt him down ; -- ay , and afterwards drink down the moon my boy , as the song says , if I get among the right sort . 
-- Never rack 'd a tenant , George , -- no occasion -- never went to court . '' 
`` I never could understand , dear uncle , says Sir George , whence proceeded your aversion to marriage . 
`` No -- nothing peculiar George . 
`` Too great for mortal man , George . 
Ever see one , George ? '' 
`` Sir George answered this question with a smile . 
I find by the perusal of their papers , that it was the custom of Sir George and Mr. Lindsay to speculate along the king 's highway , both with mental and bodily eyes , and to employ an hour of the evening in recording these speculations , and the present state of their own opinions . 
Sir George 's I find rather characterized with instability ; for all objects do not appear to the same eye , under the same angle , every time they are viewed , let mathematicians say what they will . 
As Mr. Lindsay , though imprisonment and disquiet had given him an older appearance , was only thirty , and Sir George twenty years and a half old , it might have been expected their sentiments would generally have coincided . 
According to Sir George , the present times were in all respects the best which England had ever known . 
Sir George wished to know whose it was , and asked the question of some workmen who were felling trees in the hedge row . 
`` It belongs to ` squire Garford , says one , but he does not live here now ; he 's in Swee -- Swee -- some where a great way over sea , where living is cheap : they sain here that he 's tied up . '' 
The true meaning of the phrase did not occur to Sir George ; tied up , says he ; what , is he mad ? '' 
I understand you , says Sir George , he lived beyond his income . '' 
says Sir George . 
asked Sir George . 
`` Very well , says Sir George , soon after dinner I suppose they went to bed . '' 
Giving the men something to drink , our travellers rode on in contemplative silence , only sometimes Mr. Lindsay looked at Sir George with a sort of smile . 
At length he said , `` and this is fashion -- fashion in its leading principles , which disdains order , and tramples upon common sense . 
Are you prepared Sir George to be its advocate here ? '' 
`` I am not , answered Sir George , the advocate of disorder , and hope I shall never be troubled with a vanity , which must be gratified at the expence of ruin . 
`` Oh , yes , replies Sir George ; I can allow that if all the sons and daughters of labour and industry were to live like Garford , it might rather disarrange the order of society . '' 
`` Oh , says Sir George -- a new edition of Horace 's golden mean ; which whosoever does not believe and practise , is damned poetically and morally , to all eternity . '' 
`` Faith , that 's hard , answered Sir George ; but supposing we allow the expediency of this famous mean , so constantly recommended , and as you say , so little observed , who shall fix it ? 
`` Poor Lindsay , replies Sir George , these are the infallible symptoms of premature old age -- why , splenetic moralizer -- why would you circumscribe the bounties of heaven ? 
`` Certainly , Sir George ; a poet said it , and poets are inspired . 
Sir George -- true -- in itself it is nothing : I arraign it only as the pander to those numerous follies of which we complain and with which we comply . '' 
`` Had you been a painter , Lindsay , says Sir George , one may judge by this gloomy declamation , what would have been the genius of your pictures : the dark objects would have been illumined , the bright ones thrown into the shade ; and at what are you railing ? 
`` Is it , asked Sir George , that you regret the elegant times of the Edwards and the Henries ? 
Having admired these views to satiety , they returned to the Falcon , where having invited Mrs. Bane to make their tea , and declared their intention of remaining there till monday , Sir George asked her , if there was any thing in the neighbourhood worthy the particular attention of travellers . 
Once indeed , Sir George was upon the point of quitting his politeness in favour of historical truth ; Mr. Holford having in his medalic elucidation made a considerable anachronism . 
Mr. Lindsay saw its effects upon Sir George , and pushed before him , with something very agreeable to the reverend gentleman . 
Sir George thought flattery was never worse applied . 
Her diffusive powers had kept them an hour longer than the visit was intended ; and had began to afflict Sir George with an involuntary hiatus of the mouth ; Mr. Lindsay saw this effect also , and thought proper to counter act it by a still greater profusion of compliment than he had bestowed upon Mr. Holford . 
Sir George was beginning to thank Mr. Holford for the great pleasure he had given them , and to invite him to the Falcon , when Mrs. Holford sent her compliments to the gentlemen and hoped they would favour her with their company to tea . 
The gentlemen accepting the invitation , were conducted to the parlour by Mr. Holford , who announced Miss Haubert to the gentlemen , and these to the lady , by the names of Sir George Paradyne and Mr. Lindsay . 
This lady began the conversation , by enquiring of Sir George if he had been lately in town . 
He answered in the affirmative , and expected a succession of questions concerning the court , perhaps the theatres , or the fashions . 
Sir George replied , he was too young to have made a general acquaintance with these gentlemen . 
`` You have probably been at Oxford Sir George , or Cambridge ? '' 
`` Sir George and Mr. Lindsay had been much amused with the dialogue , and had not once attempted to interrupt it by any observation of their own . 
This placid speech of Miss Colerain , which denoted gentleness at least , now drew their regards more particularly upon her . 
The hour of departure came , and I believe Miss Haubert would have gone away without any fresh instance of malevolence to Miss Colerain , had not this lady , in reply to something Sir George had said , made this innocent reflection -- that indeed would be a valuable school , which could teach with success , the happy art of subduing the passions , when they tended to disturb the peace of society . 
On their walk home , Sir George amused himself with remarks on the uncommon character of Miss Haubert , and the very common one of Mr. and Mrs. Holford . 
He applauded the spirit of Miss Carlill , and admired the dignified placidity of Miss Colerain . 
Sir George had often seen him grave , it was his general habit ; but so grave , so distant , so almost sad , he had never seen him before . 
At supper , during which Mrs. Bane usually waited , Sir George enquired if she knew Miss Colerain ? 
asked Sir George . 
After supper , Sir George enquired of Mr. Lindsay if any thing had occurred that day which had given him pain . 
Mr. Lindsay owned he had been much hurt by the circumstances which had deservedly given Sir George much pleasure . 
Two years ago he had lost a wife who constituted his chief happiness , whilst they lived together . 
`` Dear Lindsay , said Sir George , I have often wished to know your history , but never chose to ask the relation , fearing some recollections might give you pain . '' 
`` You are welcome to the relation , Sir George , but there is nothing in it , which can gratify curiosity , or reward attention . 
Sir George still expressing the same desire , Mr. Lindsay proceeded as in the next chapter . 
This , Sir George , is a specimen of my father 's manner ; it had always inspired me with awe , and now with terror . 
So , Sir George , ends my history , in which I believe the principal virtue I displayed was pride . 
And the principal virtue you did not display , answered Sir George , was cunning . 
My dear Lindsay , continued Sir George , and pressing his hand with an emotion of tenderness -- I love you for your pride , I love you for your misfortunes , and I have an additional reason to wish to be a man by law -- to relieve the mind of my long suffering friend from a dependence he is so ill calculated to bear . 
Mr. Lindsay returned Sir George 's pressure with silent gratitude . 
Sir George could not reflect with satisfaction , on leaving Combor , without seeing again the fair quaker , and more especially Miss Colerain , but the introduction was difficult ; he walked out however next morning with Mr. Lindsay , and passed a beautiful white house on the edge of a common , where they saw nobody ; this was the habitation of Miss Colerain , and seemed a paradise in miniature . 
Not having seen any thing like it before , Sir George was really surprised to see likenesses so effected , and paid her the proper compliments . 
One imitation was of a countryman in a cottage garden , suspending the labours of his spade to look with the delighted eye of a father , upon a little ragged chubby faced boy , defending its bread and butter from a tame magpye . 
It occurred to Sir George , what Mrs. Bane had said , that Miss Carlill was supposed almost to support her mother and self with the profits of her needlework ; he requested therefore to know if she had any finished piece upon sale ; she produced one , it was the figure of an elephant carrying a Nabob , whose dress and insignia had given Miss Carlill an opportunity of displaying all her genius . 
Sir George was profuse in its praise , and asked how long it had employed her ? 
And the price , madam , says Sir George ? 
And I , says Sir George , at fifty . 
So taking a fifty pound bank note from his pocket-book , he presented it to Miss Carlill , and requested she would take the trouble of putting it properly up , and forwarding it to Miss Paradyne in Grosvenor-square . 
A little contest ensued upon Miss Carlill 's declining to receive more than her own value , but Sir George insisted she did not understand calculation , and wished he might be permitted to teach her the elements of that useful science ; in fine he conquered ; a dissultory conversation ensued , in which Miss Carlill supported her opinions , and she had opinions , with the same spirit as if Sir George had not been a baronet , and her recent benefactor , and in two hours the party seemed to have known each other half an age . 
Sir George even invited himself to tea , which Miss Carlill granted , saying , it is a pleasure she could not refuse herself , though a little out of decorum , she believed , as decorums went now . 
As the gentlemen were returning to the inn , Sir George observed to Mr. Lindsay , that he had taken very little share in the conversation to-day , and had not , as far as he remembered , paid Miss Carlill a single compliment , whilst he had scattered his incense yesterday with profusion upon Mr. and Mrs. Holford , two objects who , in his opinion , had little merit to plead . 
`` You yourself , Sir George , answered Mr. Lindsay , are the cause both of the one and the other . '' 
`` Me -- Lindsay -- says Sir George -- pray explain the enigma . '' 
`` What -- dear Lindsay -- says Sir George -- is there no difference betwixt giving applause where it is due , and where it is not ? '' 
`` It is on our little self-complacencies , Sir George , answered Mr. Lindsay , well or ill founded , we build the far greater part of our happiness ; and when these are productive of laudable , or no illaudable pursuits , it is a species of robbery to deprive a person of the possession . 
It is not absolutely necessary that Mr. Holford should distinguish accurately a Caracalla from a Lucius Verus ; but it is , that Sir George Paradyne should be polite and well bred , and not give pain in return for intended pleasure . 
says Sir George , smiling , that is home however ; I hope you are not now acting in the teeth of your precept ? '' 
`` If time , if place , if occasion , be not considered , replied Sir George , all the virtues are in danger of falling foul upon each other ; not any of them require that we should deprive mankind of a single pleasure it can enjoy with innocence . '' 
The argument was kept up till their arrival at the Falcon ; Sir George was convinced -- which is not a common consequence of argument -- and what is still more uncommon , he had the fortitude to confess it . 
After thanking Sir George for his generosity , she said , time had been when she could be generous . 
After having enquired how Miss Colerain did , and expressing some sorrow to hear she was unfortunate , Sir George turned the discourse on Miss Haubert , and said , he could not have believed there was at this day in England a woman of that lady 's fortune , who could have behaved with so little politeness , and with so little care to conceal the sense she had of her own importance . 
There must have been , Sir George said , something singular in her education . 
`` Very much so , Sir George replied , if the relation would not be too great a fatigue to herself . '' 
Sir George , after thanking Miss Carlill for the pains she had taken for his information , observed , that from the pride of birth and fortune , joined to much ignorance of the world , he could easily conceive Miss Haubert 's behaviour might incline too much to arrogance ; but for the marked rudeness shewn to so amiable a lady as Miss Coleraine , there must be some additional cause . 
`` What I have seen , and what you tell me of this young lady , says Sir George , interests me exceedingly . 
`` Is it improper , asked Sir George , to inquire by what means ? '' 
At this remark , the good Mrs. Carlill began to sigh , to sob , to groan , to raise her eyes to Heaven ; all this was an exordium to the long tale of Abraham Carlill 's ruin , which lasted till it was proper for the gentlemen to take leave for the evening , and made it necessary for Sir George to beg a dish of tea the next afternoon . 
This called back Sir George . 
Sir George gave her what silver he had , and Mr. Lindsay directions how to manage her husband , to whom , as he wanted medicines , Sir George determined to send an apothecary in the morning ; he even rose earlier than common for the purpose , and rode to a Mr. Ward at Winton , to whom he related the poor man 's case . 
`` An excellent system , says Sir George , has it made you rich ? '' 
`` This man , says Sir George , may want medicine and attendance for a month , and I beg he may have all that is necessary ; Mrs. Bane , at the Falcon , will pay your bill . 
Both Sir George and Mr. Lindsay thought the day long , both were impatient for the hour of tea ; at length it came , and after a desultory conversation , in which the gentlemen and the lady found themselves as friendly and familiar as a long acquaintance could have made them . 
After a little fit of musing , Sir George enquired how far it was possible to express sensation or passion by needlework ; Miss Carlill answered , -- `` Not very accurately , thou may ` st be sure ; but something may be done . '' 
`` I am disposed , says Sir George , to indulge myself with a piece of your execution , representing the scene at Southampton , on the return of Miss Colerain ; dare you undertake it ? '' 
`` Then , says Sir George , I will take the liberty to wait upon you in the morning , in order to confer with you upon the subject , after having dreamt about it . 
I comfort myself with reflecting , that by the upward reasoning of the physicians , and the downward reasoning of divines , we shall come to know every thing in time , and that my grandson will explain in the twenty-fifth edition of this work , the cause why , and the manner how , Sir George Paradyne , the ensuing night , made seas , and ships , and rocks , and more Miss Colerain 's than an Esquimaux can count ; she called for his assistance in a thousand dangers ; he flew , he swam , he dived , he sought to save her . 
To this kind of sleep , Sir George was little indebted for refreshment . 
He shook it off early to indulge in meditation . 
He considered his projected scene of the evening at Southampton ; but he considered Still more , how it might be possible to get introduced to Miss Colerain ; whether there was any refined and delicate mode of benevolence , by which she could be assisted . 
Weary at length with the labour of an excursive imagination , which could find nothing solid to rest upon , Sir George rose -- before the sun . 
The reason of this seems to be , that Brookes 's and the Pantheon are so unskilfully situated , that a view of the horizon is not to be had ; so was not the church-yard of Comber , and thither Sir George bent his morning course . 
It was once more to behold the magnificent views , which had so charmed him the first time , that Sir George sought this beautiful summit ; the scenery of the country was equally rich , the cities as majestic , the sea as grand as before ; yet none of these had so many attractions for Sir George 's eyes , as the white house on Comber common ; an object not rich , nor grand , nor majestic . 
He soon perceived , however , that objects are not so distinct at the distance of half a mile , as of half a yard , and he wanted to see it distinctly . 
He had a prospectglass in his hand , by the help of which he saw that the house had twelve sash-windows in front , and that there was a small court before it , in which moved something that seemed -- a woman . 
The foot-path which led toward the house was not in its front , so that Sir George , before he was seen himself , found a position in which he could view the flower-garden , and the lady in it , at his ease . 
He had never before seen such beauty , so unadorned , and it appeared the more to be beauty . 
As Sir George had drank tea with Miss Colerain , there did not seem to be any impropriety in accosting her , and he gave her the morning salutation ; she returned it , not without some apparent flutter . 
`` You seem , madam , by your early rising , says Sir George , to be an admirer of the beauties of nature ? '' 
`` May I , madam , asked Sir George in a hurry , -- may I be permitted to admire your collection of polyanthus 's ? '' 
`` I thank you , madam , -- but without you -- '' but the lady had entered the house , and had shut the door gently , not rudely , and yet it was vastly rude to do so any way ; and Sir George concluded that Miss Colerain , whatever she might possess of other accomplishments , had not that of politeness . 
A little angry , he turned his steps to the Falcon . 
Mr. Lindsay was more than usually thoughtful at breakfast , and to Sir George 's inquiry into the cause , he answered , that he had been amusing himself with a London paper , and saw himself attacked under the signature of Galgacus , for his last political pamphlet . 
If Sir George wished to see Miss Carlill , he begged to stay in his apartment in order to digest his answer . 
Sir George consented , and went alone . 
But , says Sir George , interrupting an observation of Miss Carlill , all that elegance denotes an extraordinary degree of politeness , and you know Miss Carlill , your friend is not polite . 
`` This morning , '' -- answered Sir George . 
`` Not much pleased , I own , Sir George replied . 
`` It seemed , Miss Carlill , said Sir George , more like apprehension than delicacy ; yet I hope I have not the appearance of a footpad . '' 
-- '' says Sir George , with tolerable emphasis -- and a small glow upon his cheek . 
`` Zeal -- Miss Carlill -- zeal -- Sir George replied , no -- no zeal at all ; I should like to do the young lady good indeed if I knew how , because -- because -- she may have some good qualities , and because -- she is your friend , Miss Carlill . '' 
-- says Sir George with eagerness , and rising to stride across the room . 
says Sir George -- the devil -- what -- will she take in cloaths to wash ? '' 
`` Well -- answered Sir George -- well , Miss Carlill -- if you will not let me take an interest in your friend , I can not help it . '' 
`` I almost wish , says Sir George , they may be insurmountable . 
She put into his hand the following hand bill : To be sold by auction , at the Falcon , at Combor , on the 31st day of August next , unless previously disposed of by private contract , of which due notice will be given ; all that messuage standing and being upon Combor common , called the White House , with all its appurtenances , furniture , library of books , and about forty acres of land . 
says Sir George , starting up -- but -- my dear Miss Carlill you must give me leave to wait upon you to-morrow morning ; I had almost forgot an engagement , '' `` I wish thee a good day , '' says Miss Carlill -- but , thought she -- thou art subject to strange sudden emotions . 
The sentiment which hurried Sir George away so rapidly , was not a sentiment of sorrow ; it was one that made him tread lighter upon the earth , which made that earth seem elastic under his feet ; in short , it was nothing more or less , than that he would go to Southampton , purchase these premises , and then -- consider what he should do with them . 
`` Was Sir George in love with Miss Colerain ? '' 
I answer , no -- dear ladies -- no -- he had not time . 
Leaving Mr. Lindsay to his pen , Sir George rode to Southampton , and with all the eagerness of a young man , and none of the subtilty of an old one , applied to Mr. Merrick , who did not want the proper wisdom of his profession . 
`` You are Sir George Paradyne , says this gentleman , the son of Sir Jeffery Paradyne . 
Pray , Sir George , how long is it since ? '' 
`` Six months , '' Sir George replied . 
`` Yes -- time flies ; I read it in the papers ; his next heir was said to be a minor ; wrong informed there , I suppose ? '' 
`` No , Mr. Merrick , '' Sir George answered , `` I still want a few months of being of age . '' 
`` I fear then , the business you came about can not be pursued ; a minor can not purchase ; this did not occur to you , Sir George ? '' 
`` Well , says Sir George , if it can not be done , we must rest it where it is ; I am sorry , for I wished to serve Miss Colerain . '' 
`` I have scarce seen her , answered Sir George ; but I have heard of her distress , and wish to remove a part of it . '' 
There is a way Sir George , but perhaps you will not like it . '' 
It is true , there will be double writings , but that is a trifle , not worth Sir George Paradyne 's consideration . '' 
`` I agree to it , Mr. Merrick , answered Sir George ; supposing that the premises shall be considered as mine ; and no one exercise any authority over them whatever . '' 
`` Agreed , Sir George answered . 
Mr. Merrick knew very well that the common want of young men was prudence , and that that was most durable which was dearest bought ; he had therefore determined to sell him a portion of it for five hundred pounds ; but this appeal , which Sir George at once made as it were , to his honour , sunk it in an instant to four hundred ; and at that price above two thousand pounds which an honest valuer had put upon it , was the bargain struck . 
Sir George had luckily bank notes sufficient for the deposit , which he paid ; and ordering the conveyances to be made , which Mr. Merrick thought necessary , he took his leave . 
`` I tell thee , '' says a female voice , which Sir George knew was Miss Carlill 's , `` I tell thee again thou can ` st not , she is not well enough to attend thee . '' 
Sir George was now in the room . 
Miss Carlill sprung to him , saying I am glad to see thee ; here is neighbour Claverly , from Southampton ; he is obstinate to-day , and rather rude ; his business is to see the premises , and nothing will serve him but he will see Cornelia Colerain . '' 
says Sir George . 
`` Nothing at all , answers Sir George , except the concern one gentleman is apt to feel , when another does not act like one . '' 
`` I think , Mr. Claverly , said Sir George , the manners of the times require something of more civility and attention to ladies ; but to cut short this dispute , and all pretence for your remaining here , be pleased to know , this house is not now on sale . '' 
`` You have sir , Sir George answered ; but what other right do you build upon this ? 
`` I have no right to force you out of the house , Mr. Claverly , said Sir George , Miss Colerain has the sole right ; but give me leave to invite you out of it . '' 
`` No -- no -- no -- says Miss Carlill , holding Sir George 's arm . '' 
`` Do not be alarmed , dear Miss Carlill , said Sir George ; I only invite Mr. Claverly to a friendly expostulation . 
`` I do not know that , '' says the terrified Miss Carlill , still holding Sir George . '' 
`` It is well , Mr. Claverly , says Sir George , I attend you . 
Sir George had gently broke from Miss Carlill , and was going out of the room when Miss Colerain entered it ; she passed Sir George with a courtesy , and advancing with a graceful and dignified resentment , spoke in this manner : `` In every situation of life , I find I am to be obliged to Mr. Claverly ; I know not for what cause he should single me out for persecution , but much desire to know ? '' 
says Sir George , with glowing cheeks , `` is this the language of a gentleman to a lady ? '' 
`` Sir George Paradyne , says Miss Colerain , shall I entreat the favour of your company along with Miss Carlill ? 
`` Do -- Sir George Paradyne -- attend the lady . 
says Sir George , laying his hand instinctively where his sword would have been , had he been full dressed , then recollecting himself , he said -- `` Honourable I am sure it is , and I accept it with pleasure . 
`` The commissioners meet tomorrow , said Claverly , for the final settlement of your father 's affairs ; shall I inform them of your exalted notion , and your powerful alliance with Sir George Paradyne ? '' 
says Sir George , low to Claverly . '' 
`` Stop my angry boy ; '' says the other , putting himself in the doorway , Miss Colerain and Miss Carlill having already gone out , Sir George , without an instant of hesitation , seized him with both hands by the collar , and giving him a hearty shake , threw him from him into the middle of the hall , and then walked quietly after the ladies . 
Whether Mr. Claverly did not like the muscular strength Sir George had exerted , or was come to a more gentlemanly sense of things , I know not , but after a few imprecations , and those not very loud , he mounted his horse and rode away . 
Miss Colerain had thrown herself breathless and almost fainting upon a sopha , and when she had turned her eyes upon Sir George , they were filled with the tears of sensibility and gratitude ; Sir George requested she would dismiss her fear . 
`` For myself , she answered , I have ; but for you , Sir George -- I know not what consequences your kind interposition may have drawn upon you . 
`` Sir George replied to Miss Colerain -- he hoped she would honour him so far as to lay aside her apprehensions ; a man who could bluster in the presence of ladies , and insult them -- could such a man be feared ? '' 
`` Generally , I should think they were , Sir George replied ; but let me conclude this topic , with assuring Miss Colerain , that any essential service she will permit me to do her , will be a remembrance of the most pleasing kind . '' 
Miss Colerain could only bow to this ; she was too much affected to be able to speak . 
Sir George directly changed the conversation , in which Miss Colerain was not in spirits to bear a considerable share ; what she said , however , was so said , that Sir George wished only to hear ; but he soon perceived that in her present state of mind , desultory conversation seemed to afford her no pleasure , and concluding that she wished to be alone with her friend , he rose to take leave . 
Miss Colerain only bowed to this ; a hectic of a moment flushed her cheek , and was succeeded instantly by a morbid paleness ; she seemed almost to faint -- when Sir George hastily withdrew . 
Sir George Paradyne left the common , with two emotions more than any confirmed stoick would have permitted the entrance of into his bosom -- anger and pitty -- Miss Colerain the cause , remote or proximate , of both . 
Sir George had not yet communicated to Mr. Lindsay the business of the preceding day at Southampton ; though he was certain the action had for its basis the pure principles of benevolence , he was conscious of a degree of precipitancy in it ; nor could he be positive that he could clearly prove to his friend , either the wisdom of it , or the necessity ; he must know , however , and Sir George prefaced the intelligence by the scene of the morning , in which the beauty , grace , and dignity of Miss Colerain were by no means forgot . 
When the narration was compleat , Sir George had the mortification to find Mr. Lindsay look grave , and not answer . 
Sir George asked if he had the misfortune to incur his disapprobation ? 
Mr. Lindsay replied , that although Sir George had repeatedly requested him to assume the friend whenever he had occasion for advice ; when admonition , the tutor ; the latter office was too disagreeable to be taken up except on extraordinary occasions . 
Sir George was eager to interrupt him . 
Smiling he said this . 
`` I declare , dear Lindsay , said Sir George , if I know my own heart -- '' `` Oh -- nothing more easy , '' replied Lindsay . 
says Sir George , I am confident it was nothing but the absolute distress of Miss Colerain which excited me ; what , I ask you , could beauty do , so little seen ? '' 
Lindsay -- no -- damn it -- no , Lindsay -- I do not feel myself quite so perfect neither -- '' Sir George replied . 
`` No , '' -- Mr. Lindsay said ; -- `` No , -- Sir George -- not in my heart , it is only in my head . '' 
Sir George went out unperceived , and having stayed half an hour , he found the fit not ended . 
`` Where , '' says he , giving Mr. Lindsay a slap on the shoulder , `` where has thy soul taken its flight ? '' 
Do not you expect to hear from Mr. Claverly , Sir George ? '' 
`` Undoubtedly , '' Sir George answered , `` I do . '' 
`` And will you meet him , Sir George ? '' 
`` Yes , '' said Sir George , `` and see myself posted in town and country coffee-houses ; kicked , or ready to be kicked out of every society ; affronted in conversation ; insulted by big looks ; pulled by the nose by every great and small coxcomb who wears a sword . '' 
`` My dear Sir George , '' said Lindsay , `` I perceive your sole view has been fixed upon certain supposed consequences here ; of consequences elsewhere you have not seemed to reflect . '' 
`` Lindsay , '' replied Sir George , `` I know them not ; nor you neither . 
`` I , '' said Sir George , `` whatsoever might be the decision of your academies , in such a situation , should have killed every man who had applied himself to my nose , if every yard had produced a man , frankly , willingly , greedily . '' 
`` When you have demonstrated that heaven will be the certain reward , '' Sir George replied , `` I will think of that question ; till then , or till I find it no longer the indelible attribute of a gentleman , I must go with the current . 
`` And yet , my dear Sir George , arguments have been often applied to change the feelings of mankind ; have succeeded sometimes , and man has been the better for it : this might be the case here . '' 
`` Set about it , philosopher , '' said Sir George ; `` and when you have made a decent progress in this grand change , I will become a disciple ; but in arranging your argumentations , do not , as polemics usually do -- play at hide and seek . '' 
`` How is that , Sir George ? '' 
Sir George asked . 
`` I can question it , Sir George , '' replied Lindsay . 
I weary you , Sir George . '' 
`` I agree to it , '' Sir George answered ; `` you are throwing away , upon a solitary individual , that wisdom which should convert half a world ; save it dear Lindsay ; I can only exhibit to your wondering eyes , the triumph of feeling , over reason . '' 
In the cool of the evening , Sir George took a walk to the common , intending to enquire of Miss Carlill how her fair friend did ; she had not yet left Miss Colerain 's ; so Sir George was obliged to call himself , or remain unsatisfied . 
Miss Colerain in very polite and sweet terms , thanked him for his kind attention to her , but without hinting at particulars . 
Hitherto , Sir George knew little of the composition of Miss Colerain 's mind ; he was indeed perfectly satisfied , that from the hands of nature , the dear sex come equally qualified with men for solid attainments ; but he feared that novels , cards , and fashion , said -- though I do not believe it -- to be the prevailing fabricators of ladies minds , make them of shreds , soft indeed , and light , and glossy , but of no strong continuity of web . 
These unpolite satyrists do allow , that there are exceptions ; and Sir George had reason to believe Miss Colerain was one . 
In attending Miss Carlill home , Sir George , who began to feel more and more Miss Colerain 's perfections , was fluent in her praise . 
`` I can not doubt it , '' Sir George answered . 
Sir George replied , `` certainly for both . '' 
`` Not always , '' Sir George replied . 
`` One may be assured , '' answered Sir George , `` without being convinced . 
`` I confess I have never yet seen it , '' said Sir George . 
says Sir George . 
`` Why , she did ask me , '' Miss Carlill replied , `` whether I knew Sir George Paradyne ? 
Sir George asked . 
`` So then , '' said Sir George , `` I have been suspected by Miss Colerain of -- of impertinence -- and God knows what beside ? '' 
`` I own , '' Sir George said , `` it would not . '' 
Being now arrived at Mrs. Carlill 's door , Sir George took leave , and turned his ruminating step toward the Falcon . 
As it was not in Miss Colerain 's nature to be rude or capricious , she could not sternly forbid the occasional calls of Sir George Paradyne , especially as he was usually accompanied by Miss Carlill . 
Ten days had produced a friendly and agreeable intimacy ; and such was the correct behaviour , so lively the wit , and so great the power of pleasing , which Sir George really possessed , that the rigid delicacy of Miss Colerain could find nothing exceptionable in his visits -- except the visits themselves . 
She too had her power of pleasing ; and they did please Sir George to such a degree , that he forgot he was a traveller , and was in danger of forgetting that he was the son of Lady Mary Paradyne , the nephew of Lord Auschamp , and twenty other things very essential to be remembered by all men of rank and fortune ; in short , he was in love . 
He had frequently given hints concerning loss of time ; Sir George could not entertain the idea , that time so well spent could be lost . 
Mr. Lindsay found it necessary to proceed to expostulation , and he began it by wondering why Sir George should burthen himself with the expence of a man so useless to him . 
dear Lindsay , '' said Sir George , `` what new thing has entered your imagination ? '' 
`` Then you are weary of me , '' replied Sir George . 
`` Why you should think so , my dear Lindsay , '' said Sir George , `` I know not ; but this I know , that I repose with perfect confidence upon your friendship , am sensible of my own inexperience , and foresee on my entrance into life , a thousand occasions for availing myself of yours . 
`` Without doubt , '' Sir George replied , `` the minor you know is contained in the major . '' 
`` It is clean , '' said Sir George , returning the smile , `` and pleasant . '' 
`` I see , '' said Sir George , `` you are afraid of Miss Colerain ; afraid I should contaminate my greatness , no doubt , by committing the soul crime of matrimony with the child of poverty and misfortune . '' 
`` Sir George , '' replied Lindsay , with a more serious air , `` you know how these things are generally considered ; I own , I would not willingly you should give an early impression against yourself , by an act , certainly not prudent ; nor , though I have no ambition to stand high in the opinion of Lord Auschamp I should not wish to be execrated by him , or by Lady Mary Paradyne , as I shall be if I am supposed the friend , with whose concurrence you acted . 
Besides , Sir George , when I had the honour to assist in forming your plan of life for the next seven years , you declared your intention in the most decided terms , of adhering strictly to what we had agreed upon . '' 
`` I do so still , Lindsay , '' Sir George replied . 
`` You forget , Lindsay , the Cymon 's of the world , '' said Sir George . 
`` You , Sir George , '' Mr. Lindsay replied , `` you want no powers of mind , nor any powers , to give you a full title to the possession of miss Colerain ; you may marry and be happy ; for this , you need not an atom more of knowledge than you already possess . 
`` You are right , dear Lindsay , '' answered Sir George , `` no -- I have still the ambition of making a better figure in the world , than can be made by an embroidered coat , or a splendid coach . 
How far she has offended against the laws , in such cases made and provided , by permitting the visits of Sir George Paradyne , is not for me to judge ; this office belongs to that part of my twenty thousand fair readers , who have no longer any thing to hope or fear from love ; whose judgments must therefore be unclouded and impartial . 
To this awful court , I would only plead in mitigation of sentence , the gratitude a mind like Miss Colerain 's must feel , at becoming the object of Sir George 's attentive benevolence , at a time , when distress had accumulated around her , and no friendly hand was stretched out to her relief . 
It is true , the moment she felt the attack of this treacherous deity , she ought to have sat down to the serious consideration of the nature of mankind ; she ought to have reflected sedately upon the versatility of young men ; of the pride of the rich and great ; and of the small probability there was , that Sir George should be a phoenix or a black swan . 
It is indeed very true , that Sir George had hitherto made no declaration -- except with his eyes . 
She reasoned , when she did reason , thus : Sir George Paradyne is young , warm , animated , and benevolent . 
If he loves me , though it would form my highest felicity to be the cause of his , it would be most ungenerous to take advantage of his youthful ardor , and clog his fairer prospects with a wife , poor , unfriended , and even with some stain of infamy upon her ; for mankind , in forming its opinions , will too often punish children , not for the sins only , but for the misfortunes of their fathers . 
By his relations and friends , I shall be considered as an unprincipled and insidious creature ; and who knows , when the bandage which love has tied over his eyes , is taken off , how I may be regarded by Sir George himself . 
To marry me , would be a manifest mark of his imprudence ; and surely imprudence is no good foundation to build happiness upon . 
I risque then by a marriage with Sir George Paradyne now , supposing marriage to be his intention -- his happiness , and my own . 
No , I can not , ought not , will not hear him upon this subject . 
Perhaps he will say I am stubborn , capricious , and that I sacrifice to false delicacy . 
From his judgment now , I will appeal to his judgment when a few years more have matured it . 
If at twenty-five he confirms the affection he honoured me with at twenty , it will be a proof of its solidity , and a prognostic of future happiness . 
Miss Carlill , who assisted at these reasonings , did not entirely agree in sentiment with her friend ; she thought the probable contingences lay on the other side of the question ; that a marriage with Miss Colerain was likely to prevent the aberrations of Sir George Paradyne , and that so splendid an establishment for her friend , was not to be refined away , on the ground of barely probable contingences ; but all the arguments of this strenuous friend , could not prevail upon Miss Colerain to lay aside her delicate apprehensions . 
Miss Colerain resolved from day to day ; Sir George did the same regarding his own departure ; and once a day at least , paid her a visit , with an intention to press a farther benefaction upon her ; and to bid her adieu . 
For the first , he never could find a sufficiently delicate expression , and for the last , he never could find a heart . 
`` They are the frequent visits of Sir George Paradyne , madam , which have excited observation . '' 
`` And the report is , madam , that you have entered into terms with him . '' 
`` Not , madam , '' continued the parson , `` that I have any thing to say , particularly , against Sir George Paradyne ; nor am I so ignorant of the world as not to know that gentlemen do form such connections very often ; neither am I so illiberal as to suppose , that if such connection be honourably adhered to , according to the terms , that it is unpardonable in the sight of God . '' 
-- you have still ideas which ought to be corrected ; assuredly , I am not the person you have done me the honour to suppose I am ; nor will I make terms with Sir George Paradyne , even for the friendship and consolations of the reverend Mr. Holford , to whom I have the honour of wishing a good morning . '' 
It was however the day on which he was to dine at the Falcon , by Sir George 's invitation , an honourable gentleman , who along with the invitation had sent him a dozen of wine . 
It was not in his nature to be angry at such a gentleman , for a peccadillo , not strictly moral indeed , but countenanced by the times . 
Miss Carlill , who could not bear to think of a step which would convey her friend to a great distance , pleaded against it with greater force of friendship than of argument , and finally advised her to acquaint Sir George with what Mr. Holford had said . 
This her good sense led her to determine against decisively , for two reasons ; the first , that Sir George might think it a plan to precipitate him into a declaration he had not yet made -- an idea insupportable to her delicate mind ; the second , that Sir George in endeavouring to discover the source of this infamous report , might only propagate it the farther , and perhaps involve himself in danger . 
It was in consequence of many edifying discourses which Mr. Lindsay directed to Sir George , that the latter had got so far in the high road of resolution , as to invite the friends formerly mentioned to dinner ; which was the preparatory step to his bidding adieu to the Falcon and all its charming vicinities . 
This idea did not add to Sir George 's felicity . 
This latter , so far from being an open and avowed sentiment , was unknown , nay unsuspected , even by Sir George himself . 
He did not think of love , he thought only of Miss Colerain . 
So charming in person , so amiable in mind ; philosophy itself could scarcely engage his attention more strongly . 
Sir George invited him to dinner , because at a solitary table he could not this day be so properly attended to . 
During dinner he spoke little , eat bread and roots only , and drank water . 
The company then consisted of seven gentlemen ; Sir George with Mr. Lindsay , the stranger , the reverend Mr. Holford and Mr. Apothecary Ward , and the two gentlemen bowlers , whom , as they make no part of our future business , we need not announce in form . 
Sir George enjoyed the controversy ; and if he spoke , it was with the mischievous view of animating the combatants . 
Sir George and M. Lindsay , struck with the stranger 's good sense as well as his manner , applauded what he had just said ; Mr. Holford and Mr. Ward were reduced to silence , more by the commanding emphasis with which the gentleman spoke , than by his axiom . 
All bowed and were silent except Sir George , whose curiosity being highly raised by this exordium , said , `` Certainly , sir ; and I wish a gentleman who knows so well to give the precept , would also give the example . '' 
As it was rather too long in coming , Sir George asked the stranger , if he thought the question concerning parties was capable of logical decision ? 
It is true , that neither the antecedents or the consequents in these arguments , were indebted to their author for precision ; but the mode was new , and as none of the gentlemen seemed disposed to follow it , Sir George , after a compliment paid to the stranger , adroitly changed the subject After many diffusive turns and changes , in which the stranger took little share , the conversation fell upon the manners and morals of the age . 
Sir George answered , `` That whatever was agreeable to him to communicate , would certainly be agreeable to the company to hear . '' 
`` My father , '' he began , `` was a gentleman of two thousand pounds a year , in Cumberland . 
Sir George followed the servant out , who confirmed all the particulars of Mrs. Mowbray , but painted her in more detestable colours . 
He had lived twenty years with his master ; and `` Sure , '' says he , `` a kinder , better man never lived . 
Sir George recommended to Mr. Lindsay a walk to the church-yard , by way of amusement to Mr. Mowbray ; he himself took the road to the common . 
During Sir George 's walk , it was all Mowbray and matrimony , Lambington and convenience , Lindsay and admonition , love and Miss Colerain ; so that my fair readers will not be surprised , if , when he arrived in the lady 's presence , he should be a little inexplicable . 
In order to enliven her , Sir George told the little history of Mr. Mowbray -- with his own comments ; and these comments surprised Miss Colerain . 
In all former visits , Sir George had been attentive to propriety , and even to delicacy ; nor had he ever hazarded a random expression , which could induce Miss Colerain to imagine he had the least tincture of libertinism . 
This evening , but without the least design of offending -- or indeed , any design -- he had more liberal notions , and assumed a corresponding freedom , and liberality of expression ; still there was not any thing to ground offence upon , yet sufficient to alarm so apprehensive a delicacy as Miss Colerain 's . 
For the first time , this lady felt pleasure on Sir George 's taking his leave . 
Sir George had been elevated this evening , and more than commonly eloquent ; in such a situation , it was more than probable , that what his heart had preconceived , his tongue would have uttered . 
But it appeared from the whole of his discourse , or rather rattle , that evening , that he had no views ; although , for the delicate and prudential reasons before given , she had decided , that had Sir George views of the most honourable kind , she ought to reject them ; yet , I suppose , there might lurk about her heart a secret wish , that she might have an opportunity at least to shew her disinterestedness and integrity by the rejection . 
This wish she could not any longer indulge , nor could she conceal from herself , that Sir George 's behaviour this evening , had not weakened the reasonings by which she had that day almost convinced Miss Carlill , that her stay at his house was equally imprudent and improper ; nor that she ought to delay a day the execution of the plan she had formed by the help of that valuable friend . 
Does Sir George Paradyne know of your going tomorrow ? '' 
`` He 'll be mortally surprised , '' says Susanna . 
It was founded principally upon Sir George 's generosity to Susanna ; and I believe most ladies women think love can not be better demonstrated . 
`` In this purse , '' said he , `` is my wages , madam , and your bounty ; in this , Sir George Paradyne 's . 
I did take his money wid more pleasure dan I did take money before ever , for I did think he was going to make himself de happiest man in de world -- and me too . 
At that hour Sir George was amusing himself with the recollection of his own levity the preceding evening , and his candour obliged him to condemn it . 
It was not that his behaviour had been alarming to modesty ; of this Sir George was incapable . 
He remembered that once or twice she had seemed to shew symptoms of dislike . 
He rose not much pleased with himself , and went down to breakfast ; Mr. Lindsay was preparing for departure , and asked Sir George whether he proposed it this morning or afternoon . 
The question came upon him mal-apropos , and he had the weakness to answer with some little acerbity ; for when a man is out of humour with himself , he is seldom much in with others ; and the only good reason I have ever heard for indulging , at the heart , the little vanities , is , that they served to keep one in good humour . 
Mr. Lindsay said , gravely , `` if you have any reason , Sir George , for changing your mind , it is not for me to oppose it ; only as I can not assist you in the studies or pursuits which detain you , I beg permission to return to town . '' 
Sir George had not yet learned it . 
He blushed like a rural nymph , then taking Mr. Lindsay 's hand , he pressed it , would have asked forgiveness , but not at the instant being able to speak distinctly , half a tear started , and he sat down in silence . 
Sir George saw it , and fearing , he knew not what , asked `` if Miss Colerain was well ? '' 
said Sir George , with quickness ; `` has any thing particular happened ? '' 
A secret consciousness struck Sir George ; a confused idea that his vivacity last night might have been greater than he remembered , and perhaps the cause of Miss Colerain 's sudden departure . 
At length Sir George ventured to break the seal , and read the following : An occurrence of yesterday obliges me , sooner than I otherwise should have chose , to hasten into that situation where I hope to pass my life in satisfied and obscure industry . 
I have to return my very grateful thanks to Sir George Paradyne , for his kind attention to my accommodation . 
I flatter myself , pure compassion for the unfortunate was his sole motive , and that those who judge otherwise , injure him as much as myself . 
Perhaps I should have gone away with the happy assurance it was so , had I perfectly understood Sir George last night . 
Once more I thank you , Sir George , and wish you all the rewards of virtue . 
All the mental powers Sir George possessed , at present scarce sufficed for the first ; for the last , they were wholly incompetent . 
He retired to his apartment ; he wondered at his own turbulent feelings ; he endeavoured to persuade himself , that except so far as humanity was concerned , Miss Colerain was nothing to him ; that she pursued her own predetermined mode of acting , independent of him ; or if the very little he had said without intention , had alarmed miss Colerain , she was most superlatively delicate , perhaps capricious . 
In his opinion , this lady had by no means treated him so kindly as his benevolence , nor so politely as his rank and fortune deserved . 
On more mature consideration , it was clear he was the offended person , and that it became a man of his consequence , to consign her remembrance to oblivion . 
Thus alternately , pride gained the ascendant over love , and Miss Colerain over Sir George Paradyne . 
From one or two obscure hints in Miss Colerain 's note , it appeared to Sir George that his gaity had given her suspicion . 
He wished to know the truth , and in order to extract it from Miss Carlill , resolved , if she hinted at accusation , to seem for a time , rather to justify than deny it . 
He found this young lady with eyes yet red , and with a face that did not wear the expressive satisfaction it used to do , when he called . 
It is , thought he , as I expected . 
`` I have in my hand , '' said Sir George , `` a very extraordinary note from Miss Colerain ; it informs me she has left Combor . '' 
`` Oh , no , '' Sir George answered ; `` but I do n't comprehend the reason . '' 
`` Nothing -- nothing , '' Sir George replied ; '' the extraordinary would be in a woman 's doing -- what she did not please . 
asked Sir George . 
Good , thought Sir George -- we are right . 
`` I , '' says he , appearing surprised . 
said Sir George , `` I hope , however , Miss Colerain acquits me of any thought of such impertinence ? '' 
`` Cornelia Colerain , '' answered Miss Carlill , gravely , `` does not read the thoughts of others -- nor does she accuse thee -- only this she said , friend Paradyne , and she wept when she said it -- that lower than fame and fortune could sink her , she would not sink ; nor add remorse to adversity , even for George Paradyne . '' 
said Sir George , then she does suspect me ? '' 
Sir George asked . 
asked Sir George . 
`` Suppose it was , '' said Sir George , `` sure it was no unpardonable crime . '' 
`` Perhaps , '' said Sir George , `` I may not have the most profound veneration for it . '' 
`` If , '' said Sir George , `` I could ever expect to meet with liberality of sentiment in woman , and contempt of prejudices , I might expect it in Miss Colerain . '' 
`` Perhaps not , '' Sir George answered , ; `` but my dear Miss Carlill , do reflect a moment upon our modes and customs , and tell me from your heart , does it not make a difference ? '' 
said Sir George . 
`` You seem to plead your friend 's cause with a proper quantity of zeal , '' said Sir George . 
`` You are angry , my dear Miss Carlill , '' said Sir George . 
said Sir George , humourously -- `` that time , as said Friar Bacon 's head -- that time is past . 
`` Do these , '' Sir George asked , `` exclude the gentleman ? '' 
Sir George endeavoured to tread back upon his steps , to unsay what he had said , and to convince miss Carlill , which indeed was true , that he never had the least design upon the honour of Miss Colerain . 
In this , Sir George had not the success he deserved . 
That Cornelia Colerain should be thought on as a conveniency , was insupportable to Miss Carlill ; and the anger raised by this idea , shut up , for the present , the avenues of her mind to every other ; so Sir George and she parted , with each a lowered opinion of the other . 
Sir George strode away towards the Falcon , resolved that day to leave that country , and bid adieu to love and Miss Colerain . 
He had to pass the white house , now his own ; before it were assembled a small crowd of poor women and children , who were receiving the last of her bounty , in that part of the remaining provisions which Mr. Fidel could spare . 
It was Sir George 's business to know by what authority this reverend gentleman had joined Miss Colerain and himself together in this sinister mode of marriage . 
Mr. Holford was not one of those obstinate people who refuse to give a reason upon compulsion ; on the contrary , he was disposed to give up all the reason he had in the world upon compulsion ; so without much hesitation he acquainted Sir George with the following circumstances : His friend was a clergyman of Southampton ; and being at an assembly , had gone in the intervals of dancing , to a side room for refreshment . 
Sir George left Mr. Holford 's with much increase of anger , but with an entire change of its object . 
He sought for ease , and found it by unbosoming himself to Lindsay with full confidence . 
said Sir George . 
`` Shew me , '' said Sir George , `` in your infinite wisdom , how it is to be avoided -- how it is possible to avoid it with honour ? '' 
`` But I do know it , '' answered Sir George . 
`` I let the world alone , '' Sir George replied , `` but that malignant rascal , Claverly -- '' `` Has judged , '' interrupted Lindsay , `` by the most general , and perhaps by the truest rule of judging , -- self . '' 
`` Curse me if I can or will forgive him for it , '' said Sir George . 
`` Yes , -- dear Lindsay , '' -- replied Sir George , `` I demand it of you on the score of friendship . '' 
I own therefore , I did meditate to suppress this circumstance in the history of Sir George Paradyne . 
Not that I did not know that a hero must have valour , and that the only way for the refined and peaceable gentleman of the reign of George the third to obtain it , or the reputation of it , which is quite as good , is to kill his man . 
After all , I need not have given myself so much unnecessary trouble on the present occasion ; for when Sir George arrived at Southampton , he found that Mr. Claverly had that very morning set sail for Havre de grace ; not to shun Sir George , for that would have been ill manners , and indeed he knew nothing of Sir George 's intent ; but as was supposed , on mercantile concerns . 
The complaisant Sir George determined instantly to wait upon him there ; and as in all the Southampton waters , there was not a vessel with sails actually spread for Normandy , he took post horses for Dover , sailed over to Calais , and on the sixth day found himself at Havre , with unpowdered hair , pulse ninety a minute , and so altogether unlike a fine gentleman , that poor Claverly must have been struck with a panic at least , had he not by good luck been half way over the British channel on his return . 
The indefatigable Sir George , enraged at this contre-tems , would have turned his back upon the first post in Normandy in half an hour , but that it pleased Mr. Lindsay to fall commodiously ill . 
This gentleman had not the same animating cause which Sir George had , to enable him to resist fatigue ; and he had a vexation from which Sir George was exempt . 
He had before been chagrined to see philosophy yield the pas to love ; he was equally disturbed now , to see it give way to -- good manners . 
These points , one by one , Sir George gave up , but still insisted it was honourable ; and honour , every body knows , can rear its lofty head and stand , whilst all the virtues are falling round it . 
At length , Mr. Lindsay so far prevailed , that Sir George promised , unless upon fresh provocation , he would not go out of his way to seek Mr. Claverly ; after which , Mr. Lindsay recovered with double velocity , and very soon arrived with Sir George at his seat at Dennington , in Sussex . 
He found there Lady Mary and his sister . 
The latter he certainly loved with the most sincere affection ; Lady Mary he strove to love , but there was something more than commonly repulsive in her manner to him , so that his virtuous propensity received perpetual checks . 
Still he desired to pay her all the duty of a son , and was not therefore sorry to find her at Dennington . 
Immediately on his arrival , he sent up a proper message of respect , desiring permission to attend her ; Lady Mary granted this permission , but remembring Mr. Lindsay , her son 's disobedience , and her own dignity , she received him with that awful and chilling stateliness , such a remembrance was likely to inspire . 
After the first salutations , Sir George said , `` your ladyship makes me happy to find you here . '' 
Lady Mary answered , `` It must be owned , Sir George , you take an early and polite method to let me know I am in your house . '' 
said the really astonished Sir George , `` this is so strained an interpretation , that -- that -- I am afraid , Madam , I have not the power to say any thing agreeable to you . '' 
`` Here , Sir George ! '' 
They affected Sir George -- not quite indeed in the manner Miss Colerain 's had done , but so as to make him earnest in his assurance of duty . 
Sir George answered , `` he would take care Mr. Lindsay should not give her personal offence ; and added , for he could not totally conceal the impression this behaviour made upon him , `` nor himself neither . '' 
Saying so , he bowed , left the room , and ordering horses , took Mr. Lindsay , in order to accommodate him at his uncle 's . 
Sir George excused himself as well as he could , and then announced Mr. Lindsay to her . 
`` Yes , Emilia , '' Sir George replied . 
Then , with a smile to Sir George , `` For so grave a personage as a tutor , brother , Mr. Lindsay is sufficiently gallant . '' 
`` See your power , Emilia , '' said Sir George . 
`` Thank you , Sir George , '' said Lindsay ; `` it is to prevent Miss Paradyne 's falling in love with my didactic face , that you chuse to dress me thus , I suppose . '' 
`` A rare disease indeed , '' replied Sir George ; `` but depend upon Lindsay for a cure . '' 
Sir George now went in to his uncle who was confined by a gouty complaint , and having acquainted him with the purport of his errand , the old gentleman said , `` Why George , I like him ; you could not have brought any body to please me so well ; he spoke like a man to that Lord Auschamp , I remember . 
Things being thus settled , Sir George took leave , and rode home with Miss Paradyne , who said , `` I wanted to see this Mr. Lindsay , and now I have seen him , I find myself disappointed . '' 
said Sir George . 
`` This , sister , '' said Sir George `` is a direct inversion of the rules of physiognomy . 
`` Thank you , dear Emilia , '' said Sir George , `` and it is a very pretty , and rather new idea , that opinions are to be governed by consanguinities . '' 
`` He can , '' replied Sir George , `` be all things to all men , as far as the exterior goes ; but it is not for every body he will take the trouble to be polite and easy ; and indeed it is pity he should ever be put out of his way ; which is that which approved good sense and integrity direct . 
`` You had better not , '' replied Sir George ; `` he is a widower , a man of misfortunes , all originating from woman , and is something of an infidel as to the celestial attributes , with which sublime poets and sublime lovers decorate the fair . '' 
Sir george 's birth-day approached , and Lady Mary had always expressed her intention that it should be splendidly kept . 
Sir George was of opinion , that so soon after the death of his father and brother , it would be adding indecency to vanity . 
Sir George said , `` that unless the example met his approbation , he did not see the necessity of following that of Lord S. or any lord . '' 
`` I am afraid , '' Sir George said , `` your ladyship will make speaking too difficult for me to venture upon . 
`` Sir George , '' Lady Mary replied , `` any thing may be denied , or glossed over ; but I can not always be commodiously blind to an affront , nor commodiously credulous , when it is endeavoured to be explained away . '' 
`` Then , '' said Sir George , `` my only resource is silence . '' 
said Sir George . 
Sir George had determined that in no future conversation , should the least asperity escape him towards his mother ; so he stopt short at the word , honour -- then said , `` Lord Auschamp , madam , is well known to have formed his party . 
`` I do not doubt it , '' Sir George replied , `` and when I am convinced too , I suppose I shall act according to conviction . '' 
So the dialogue went on ; and as it brought no conviction to either of the disputants , Lady Mary sent off to Lord Auschamp a letter complaining of Sir George 's obstinacy . 
Although Sir George might not , perhaps , give Lord Auschamp credit to the full extent of his polite language , he was very well pleased to hear it , for he loved conciliation and had no particular desire to be at variance with his uncle . 
Lady Mary too , being privately , though with some difficulty , convinced by Lord Auschamp , that it was better Sir George should take his own way with that Lindsay , she was so good to desire that gentleman might be invited to the Hall ; for she durst say , upon better acquaintance she should like him very well . 
Sir George spoke eloquently , and proved that forgiveness was a true christian virtue , and recommended even by catholic divines , except in the abominable cases of heresy , and contumacy , respecting spiritual decrees . 
`` Well done , Emilia , '' said Sir George ; `` this is , I suppose , what ladies call bestowing favours upon gentlemen . '' 
I now hope they will think better of him , especially when I assure them , he persisted to the last-hour of his stay in this most charming mode of behaviour ; complimented Sir George on his capacity for distinguishing men of sterling merit , and when he ascended his chaise , shook Mr. Lindsay cordially by the hand , and assured him , nothing could make him so happy as to give him an opportunity of shewing how sincerely he was his friend . 
Now this pleased Sir George , and one would think must please every body , for it is the true current politeness , and being made up of grace -LRB- I do not mean the grace of God -RRB- smiles , bows , and other small-cloaths of the mind , and put on with so much ease ; I wonder any man should prefer that other unregarded sort of politeness , which consists of a real feeling the wish to serve and please , and therefore not in every man 's power . 
Lord Auschamp having taken leave , Sir George was more at leisure to consider his sister , who , tho ' occasionally gay , sighed frequently , and indulged herself in the solitude of groves and grots . 
A rumour had reached Sir George 's ear , that Miss Paradyne was soon to be married ; but it was so incredible that he should hear of this only by a rumour , that he considered it as unfounded . 
He was , however mistaken ; Lord Auschamp had the goodness to look out for his niece , and by a singular circumstance operating on the young lady 's delicacy , added to the daily mortifications she endured from her mother 's temper , she was induced to give a passive consent to her will and Lord Auschamp 's . 
All that was necessary of this , Miss Paradyne related to Sir George , who , embracing her tenderly , asked , `` if she had found any reason to change her opinion of Mr. Birimport ? '' 
`` What then , '' Sir George asked , `` makes you uneasy ? '' 
`` This , '' said Sir George , `` is astonishing ; `` what cause did she assign ? '' 
`` I am excessively obliged to my mother , '' said Sir George , `` and if my sister desires it , I will certainly confirm her prediction . '' 
`` It is , '' said Sir George , `` entirely yours . '' 
Lady mary had the condescension to join Sir George , Miss Paradyne , and Mr. Lindsay at breakfast the next morning , when she told Sir George she expected company to dinner . 
asked Sir George . 
Sir George made the most vigorous resolutions to have no sort of contention with his mother . 
`` Madam -- '' says he , rising in disorder , then stopped , sat down , and covering his face with his handkerchief , gave way to a mingled mass of emotion , formed of anger , sorrow , filial duty , and fraternal love . 
said Sir George . 
`` Is it my fault , '' said Sir George , `` that my only sister is engaged in marriage without my knowledge ? 
`` I beg you will be easy , madam , '' said Sir George , `` after this morning , our united families have not where-with to bribe him to stay . 
Miss Paradyne overflowing in tears , gave Sir George her hand . 
Sir George gave her a tender kiss , left the room , and in an hour the house , along with Mr. Lindsay . 
Whilst she was performing this agreeable exercise , Sir George and Mr. Lindsay taking leave of Mr. James Paradyne upon the road , were some miles upon their way to London . 
It is possible my fair readers may imagine , that the lovely Miss Colerain has slipped out of Sir George 's memory , or mine ; for it is , I find , a sort of maxim with the dear creatures , that a man in love does not perform the duties of his station , unless he goes mad some way or other -- upon disappointment . 
Now Sir George Paradyne being in his perfect senses , could not be in love . 
I never said he was , dear ladies ; at least , I never said love was his sole passion . 
Probably this was Sir George 's case . 
For there were times when he could not deny the possession of his imagination to Miss Colerain -- especially in the dark night -- so friendly to love . 
Then it was she seemed formed for the very direct purpose of making him happy ; then , he constantly debated the question , whether solid happiness was not better than empty same . 
Then , he as constantly decided that it was -- till day , and London , and Lindsay , introduced a contrary association of ideas . 
Sir George did , and declared his intention of going to Southampton , to finish with Mr. Merrick for Combor White House . 
Is it a proof of love , dear ladies , that Sir George was seized with a desire , almost to longing , of indulging himself with a sight of those inferior objects , which Miss Colerain , now far distant , had endeared to him ? 
As Sir George was not an adept in the royal and noble arts of simulation and dissimulation , the fluctation of his mind , though not all his actions in consequence of it , was well known to Mr. Lindsay . 
Now Mr. Lindsay thought more of Mr. Claverly than Miss Colerain ; but as he did not chuse to assign this as a reason for Sir George 's not going to Southampton , he found it necessary to have recourse to arguments of a different kind ; and against tender sentiments , to support the pride of wealth and family , from which Sir George was by no means exempt ; nor perhaps any of the sons of men . 
At length Mr. Lindsay conquered , and got himself substituted for Sir George , for the business at Southampton . 
When he arrived there he found all things ready , and himself expected . 
`` You sign as principal , '' said Mr. Merrick ; `` your own name is every where inserted instead of Sir George Paradyne 's . 
Ten days since we were favoured with Sir George 's orders to substitute you for Miss Colerain . '' 
He was received by this lady with a most sullen civility ; for she imputed to him some part of Sir George Paradyne 's sentiments respecting her friend . 
Mr. Lindsay asked , `` if he had been so unfortunate as to offend ? '' 
`` I do not know , '' said Mr. Lindsay , `` that Sir George is guilty of a licentious action . 
But Miss Carlill will scarce wonder he should catch some portion of the prevailing sentiment of the day . '' 
`` Once indeed I had a higher opinion of George Paradyne than of any man ; and because I had , I wished him united to Cornelia Colerain . '' 
`` Partly that , partly his early age , '' replied Mr. Lindsay . 
`` If the world goes as I am told it does , '' said Miss Carlill , `` thou would ` st have done better not to have exposed him so much to it . 
Cornelia Colerain would have formed him to virtue better than all thy philosophy . '' 
`` Perhaps , '' said Miss Carlill , `` thou wilt find a solution of that enigma in this copy of a letter , which Cornelia Colerain sent through my hands to friend Paradyne : '' Sir , I have your favour inclosed by Miss Carlill . 
But permit me to ask you , Sir George , upon what pretence I can accept so liberal donation . 
To hear of Sir George Paradyne 's happiness will always add to that of his obliged humble servant , Cornelia Colerain . 
The morning in which Mr. Lindsay left London , Sir George spent in reflection , not upon the things he ought , but upon those he ought not . 
Weary of an internal civil war , he dressed and strolled to a neighbouring coffee-house , where he met a Mr. Lake , with whom he had a slight acquaintance at Oxford . 
This gentleman was designed for the church ; and being now in mourning , Sir George did not distinguish between the canonicles of a young divine , and the elegant fables of an heir . 
`` I wish you joy sincerely , '' said Sir George . 
`` I think , '' says Sir George , `` in your presence her wisdom can not be decently denied ; and to this sad event it was owing , I suppose , that I have now the pleasure to see you in town . '' 
`` No , Sir George , '' Mr. Fielding replied ; `` you owe it to my fraternal piety . 
This specimen of John Lake Fielding 's vivacity , happening to take Sir George 's taste , he demanded his friendship . 
The demand was granted , and he promised , at Sir George 's intreaty , to dine with him that day in Grosvenor-square . 
At home , Sir George found an unexpected guest , Lady Mary just arrived from Dennington . 
She desired him not to be surprised , that the anger of a mother was but short lived . 
Now Sir George had himself often made this latter reflection , and had often sighed to think Lady Mary 's temper rendered her not this proper person ; or that his own was not fitted to bear her provocations . 
The idea of variance with a mother was intolerable ; and he would bear any thing , he could have borne to have lived with her on amicable terms . 
These being Sir George 's sentiments , he was rather surprised than displeased at Lady Mary 's appearance in town . 
He received her therefore with much respect , and even thanked her for her condescention ; her good humour rose to its highest pitch ; she received Mr. Fielding very graciously , and they all dined together in great harmony . 
He knew something of his sister 's temper , and it was easy to perceive , even from her own account , that Sir George had been justly provoked . 
He told Lady Mary therefore , that she was the best and fondest of mothers ; that he was certain , had it not been for Sir George 's precipitance , she would have conceded a little , rather than have suffered a breach . 
That he knew this was Lady Mary 's own opinion , and that her actions would be always wise and prudent , if she had time for reflection . 
Notwithstanding Lord Auschamp 's excellent advice , and more excellent mode of giving it , as he could not administer it every day , Lady Mary sunk into her old habits , and saw plainer and plainer how wrong Sir George was , and the necessity of parental admonition . 
One morning she saw him disposed to be unusually pensive . 
Not that Sir George had obtained the useful power of hearing or not hearing , at will , but because he was totally engrossed by the remembrance of a vision . 
It was of a female all in white , standing before the door of Combor White House which was shut against her , and which she looked at with a pity-moving eye ; she turned that eye upon Sir George , then again to the excluding door , and when he was going to address her , vanished like an angel . 
Lady Mary had said much , without observing Sir George 's auditory nerves to be out of order , and had still much to say , when Mr. Fielding called to invite Sir George to a walk . 
Sir George blushed , rose up , and went out of the room . 
Lady Mary shook her head , and said , `` she should be a happy mother , if Sir George had been blessed with Mr. Fielding 's docility and reverence for the precepts of wisdom . '' 
Mr. Fielding in return , owned `` that he had never heard so good things from any of the heads of colleges in Oxford ; nor were better to be found in Tully 's offices , or even in Antonine 's Meditations . 
`` Dear Fielding , '' said Sir George , `` I am content to be the butt of your satire in my own person , but spare me in that of my mother . '' 
Mr. Fielding 's company was this morning less agreeable to Sir George than usual . 
They parted , and he fell again into contemplation of his vision of the night . 
-- And have I , said he , given away that little paradise , so late Miss Colerain 's ? 
these were the texts , from which Sir George had the dexterity to deduce a mass of sermonic matter , as well calculated to grieve is heart , as any heart could wish . 
Whilst he was thus delightfully disquieting himself , a chaise drove to the door with Mr. Lindsay . 
The impatient Sir George followed , with an intention to persuade him to overlook Lady Mary 's caprice , and reside in Grosvenor-square . 
The argument was short , for Sir George was soon convinced , and what is extraordinary in a young academician , acquiescence followed conviction . 
This point settled , Mr. Lindsay looked at Sir George with a certain look , and said , `` you have given me leave to point out to you an erroneous intention ; will you have the goodness to bear my accusing you of erroneous action ? 
How could you , Sir George , '' continued he smiling , `` put it out of your own power to oblige Miss Colerain , if you should ever find her disposed to be obliged ? '' 
`` Because , '' said Sir George , `` she has rejected my kindness ; twice rejected it . '' 
`` Respect her delicacy , Sir George , '' Mr. Lindsay replied ; `` attention to decorum is so proper , and so lovely in woman , that philosophy itself can scarce condemn it , even when founded upon erroneous notions . '' 
`` Your opinion of this lady seems changed , '' said Sir George ; `` what has caused it ? '' 
`` No , '' answered Mr. Lindsay ; `` no , Sir George . 
`` I want not family or fortune , '' said Sir George . 
`` Had you used no other arguments , '' said Sir George , `` it is possible I might have been more governed by inclination . 
`` Oh certainly no , Sir George , '' answered Mr. Lindsay , `` affection that had borne the test of such a time must be firm . 
`` Seven years , '' said Sir George , smiling , `` is an eternity to a lover . '' 
`` I will make you an abatement , '' answered Mr. Lindsay , returning his smile , `` in favour of love -- and Miss Colerain . '' 
`` Say what you will , Lindsay , '' said Sir George , `` you have certainly changed something in your sentiments concerning this lady . '' 
`` Upon my soul , Sir George , '' continued Mr. Lindsay , `` I should blush internally at the thoughts of becoming possessed by law , of Miss Colerain 's right by equity . 
`` Well , '' said Sir George , with a moistened eye that beamed gratitude upon Lindsay ; `` I own I have been a penitent in this particular , ever since your departure . 
In return , Sir George presented Mr. Lindsay with a deed of two hundred and fifty pounds per annum for his life . 
With this beloved sister , Sir George spent many of his hours . 
He looked often and attentively at her , to see if he could find happiness in her eyes . 
He did not find positive misery there , nor did he chuse to ask questions , which might eventually produce it . 
But Lady Mary 's asperities were not these evanescent things ; nor could Sir George , though assisted by Lindsay and Seneca , learn to bear them . 
In consequence , he was seldom at Grosvenor square , except from twelve at night to twelve at noon ; and Lady Mary , fond of repose , would scarcely give herself the trouble to rise so early , more than once or twice a week , for the edification of an ungrateful son . 
Some little time is required to change , even good habits into bad ; so that I hope it will form no violent contempt of Sir George 's faculties , if it shall appear , that he did not , in one winter , learn all the university of London can teach ; though I own , no university brings forward its genteel pupils with more facility . 
One morning lady Mary having requested , by a note , Sir George 's company at her breakfast table , instead of honouring him with admonition as he had expected , surprised him with the agreeable account that his uncle , Lord Auschamp , would do him the honour to dine with him that day . 
The dinner was well conducted ; for Sir George had a good cook , and Lady Mary , doing the honours of a genteel table , was perfectly in her element . 
Every one seemed pleased , every one paid a tribute of applause to the vivacious Lady Ann , except Sir George Paradyne . 
He , unfortunately , had stumbled into a reverie , occasioned by a comparison of Lady Ann Brixworth , the heiress , the ornament of the beau monde , with Miss Colerain . 
Lady Ann was piqued ; and as titled beauties usually assume what privilege of language they think proper , she said to Lady Mary Paradyne , in an audible whisper , `` how philosophic Sir George is to-day , Lady Mary ? 
how judiciously he has chosen his time and place for meditation ? '' 
`` Sir George bowed , and thanked Lady Ann for her particular notice . '' 
`` To be any how distinguished by Lady Ann Brixworth , '' Sir George replied , `` is an honour . '' 
`` It is , '' Sir George replied , `` because I am at present only in my A , B , C , and for first elements , one does not require such eminent masters as Lady Ann Brixworth . '' 
`` With such a preceptress , I should take my learning very fast , '' said Sir George . 
The consequence of this was , that Sir George found himself insensibly engaged to make one in her ladyship 's train . 
When the company rose to form their card parties , Lord Auschamp , whose time was too precious to be so spent , desired , before his chariot drew up , half an hour 's conversation with Sir George in his library ; where , when they were seated , Lord Auschamp began gravely thus : `` Hitherto , Sir George , I have found it difficult to make you conceive , that I had a more material interest in you than mere consanguinity can give . 
Sir George imagined he saw something concerted and artful in this preamble , and did not doubt but Lord Auschamp 's view was personal or political interest of some sort or other . 
Sir George , a little struck by the abrupt oddity of the question , replied , `` why I do n't know , my Lord ; very well I believe . '' 
I fancy , Sir George , by the help of my influence , you might persuade her to break that resolution . '' 
Sir George thanked his uncle , and said , `` he found in himself no inclination at present to marry . 
He did not wish to depreciate Lady Ann 's merit . 
At present he had not perceived in her that sort of merit to which he was most attached ; and as he did not want fortune , fortune would be no allurement . '' 
He had mentioned this to his sister , who said , she believed Sir George had it in his power to serve him . '' 
Sir George replied `` he had , and would order that sum to be sold out of the funds whenever Lord Auschamp pleased . '' 
`` I do not understand , '' replied Sir George , `` why you should ask that as a favour , which under a certain qualification , is the right of all his Majesty 's subjects , peers excepted . '' 
`` I think he ought , my Lord , '' answered Sir George . 
`` I have indeed , '' said Sir George , `` much of the property in that borough , but certainly the votes of the inhabitants are not included in it . '' 
`` Sir George , '' said Lord Auschamp , `` it is not worth your while to set up for a virtue the times will not bear . 
`` I shall never make it an object of venality , my Lord , '' said Sir George . 
`` I am sorry for it , '' said Sir George , `` and wish great men better minds . '' 
`` Once they did , '' Sir George answered . 
said Lord Auschamp , rather peevishly , `` I wish , Sir George , you would be content to take the world as it is . '' 
`` I must , my Lord , '' Sir George answered . 
`` Never , my Lord , '' answered Sir George , with emphasis that marked his displeasure at the request , `` you see me ready to accommodate your Lordship with what is my own . 
Such was the enviable situation of Lady Ann Brixworth , when Sir George Paradyne inlisted himself in her train ; and soon acquired a distinguished preference over his rivals in gallantry . 
To him was now given the honour of her hand to the chariot , and a seat next herself in the box ; but the most enviable of all his distinctions , was admission to the early part of her toilette , before she was visible to the admiring world . 
It began to be clear that the reign of gallantry was near its close , and that Sir George was the happy man . 
The newspapers ventured to announce it to the universe ; and Sir George received the congratulations of Lord Auschamp , and something of the same nature from Lady Mary ; but accompanied with a stately remonstrance for the manifest omission of filial duty , in entering into so important an engagement without her consent . 
Her only debate was , whether she should give up her darling liberty , even to the amiable Sir George Paradyne . 
It was indeed true , that Sir George had not yet actually made the essential declaration ; but it was because love , true love , was timid ; and timidity still made a part of Sir George 's character . 
To Sir George , it were captivating , no doubt , to carry away a prize disputed by coronets . 
Comparisons would enter his head , even when he was little disposed to make them ; and Miss Colerain only rose the higher in Sir George 's scale of estimation , the oftener these comparisons were made . 
Amongst Sir George 's rivals we must reckon Count Colliano of Turin , and the Marquis de Valine in Dauphin . 
Men of infinite courage , they would have fought for Lady Ann from the Rhone to the Po ; but their business in England depending upon their politeness , they did not chuse to offend any man , much more a man of Sir George 's importance . 
In this humour they were liberally indulged at Mrs. Harcourt 's , and together with Sir George and Lieutenant Harcourt , a gay careless lad , with a blunt humorous oddity about him , constituted that set of familiar visitants , in whose favour , the ceremonies which keep the polite world at such a well bred distance , were dispensed with . 
The free and odd good humour of the young lieutenant , was extremely pleasing to Sir George Paradyne . 
For my part , says the Count one day , when these four gentlemen were en famille with Lady Ann and Mrs. Harcourt , it was in answer to a humane sentiment which had fallen from Sir George ; `` For my part , I do not know why so much sensibility should be lavished upon the Canaille . 
`` If they are satisfied with that , '' said Sir George , `` it is pity no government will contrive they should have it with rather less labour , and in something greater abundance . '' 
`` The finer spirits , according to your thesis , Monsieur le Marquis , '' said Sir George , `` must be all those who happen to be born to affluence . '' 
As Sir George had an appointment this morning , he rose also , and taking leave , went out with the young officer ; to whom he said , `` you have surprised me to-day , Harcourt . 
forgive them this little fault , '' said Sir George , `` they are men of politeness , and not deficient in understanding . 
May I take the liberty to ask you a question , Sir George ? '' 
`` I am rather offended that you ask that liberty , '' answered Sir George . 
`` No , Harcourt , '' answered Sir George . 
`` I have no such design , '' replied Sir George . 
`` Purely , '' Sir George answered ; `` one must be somewhere . '' 
`` One would not win money of ladies , '' said Sir George , `` that would not be to make one 's self agreeable ; and as to the foreigners , I own they are much my superiors . '' 
`` Not above a thousand or so , '' Sir George replied . 
ah , Sir George ! '' 
`` Why yes , Lindsay has been at his ahs too , '' said Sir George . 
Sir George 's appointment was to meet a Mr. Sampson at Mr. Birimport 's . 
He had taken some pains to cultivate the friendship of his sister 's husband ; but Mr. Birimport was generally inaccessible . 
This Sir George attributed to business , to a soul superior to the arts of trifling , and capable of drawing amusement from its own fund . 
But Mrs. Birimport was become a recluse also ; and for this Sir George could not account . 
Some weeks before Sir George had happened to be present at one of these hours ; when this Mr. Sampson spoke with some acrimony , not only against Mr. Hastings , but against the whole system of East India corruption . 
Sir George stole a glance at his sister , who did not appear to notice this polite compliment . 
Sir George said to Mr. Sampson as they walked , `` Mr. Birimport has been quite eloquent this morning ; and is , I perceive , a most determined supporter of Mr. Hastings . '' 
If I should meet you there again , Sir George , it may be in my power to shew him you as the accuser of Mr. Hastings , and the declaimer against Indian politics . '' 
Since this time Sir George had always taken a very polite notice of Mr. Sampson , and they had agreed to meet at Mr. Birimport 's this morning , and to dine together in Grosvenor-square . 
If Sir George thought Mr. Birimport eloquent before , he thought him more so now . 
Lady Mary happened to dine out , and as Sir George had no other company , he had opportunity to make what enquiries he thought proper of Mr. Sampson , respecting his brother-in-law . 
`` A man of his good sense , '' said Sir George , `` might keep up his importance , and probably encrease it , by mixing more with mankind . '' 
Sir George trembled for his sister . 
Sir George , after this conversation , could not be easy till he had seen his sister ; till he had related a part of it , and expressed his fears that she was less happy than she ought to be . 
But , my dear Sir George , Mr. Birimport is rather an odd than an ill man . 
His caprices are partly the effect of infirmity , and partly of that tyranny which is said to be so easily learned in the East . 
However , were he much worse than he is , I am his wife , and know my duty . 
`` But , my dear sister , '' said Sir George , `` one sees you no where . 
Mrs. Birimport assured Sir George , that he was mistaken in his supposition . 
Sir George was , undoubtedly , pleased with the rectitude and magnanimity of his sister 's sentiments . 
Embracing her tenderly , he conjured her not to suffer too much ; and depend upon his affection for relief , whenever she found it expedient to seek it . 
Full of the subject , he spoke of it to Lady Mary , who wondered what Mrs. Birimport had to complain of . 
The spring was approaching , and Sir George did not see its approach with infinite pleasure . 
It was destined to carry him from London , where , under the auspices of Mr. Fielding , he began to taste the animated joys which are to be obtained by shaking two cubes of ivory in a box . 
But for Miss Colerain , Lady Ann Brixworth 's empire over Sir George , might have extended beyond his vanity : Some brilliant Circe might have mingled for him the enchanted cup , which transforms a man into -- a man of mode . 
Notwithstanding the firm resolution Lady Ann had made to enjoy the world a few years in perfect freedom ; there was a something in Sir George which seemed to diminish the value of this perfect freedom . 
She knew , indeed , that he was devoted to her ; no man could be more so ; yet he had never talked of love . 
As a proof of her divinity , she found this timidity extremely agreeable ; but it had become troublesome by its duration ; and as Sir George began to talk of the continent , Lady Ann thought it expedient to inspire him with confidence ; for which purpose she took some very proper and genteel pains , which exposed her elegant person to more of those little pleasing , gallant liberties , than are allowed in any of the present codes of female decorums . 
One day Sir George , not in the timid respectful way , but in a most assuming and confident manner , dared to ravish a kiss ; which , all the world knows , is a most shocking impropriety , and must of necessity kindle a fierce and terrible anger in a young lady 's bosom . 
Sir George caught the lady 's waist ; and poor dear Lady Ann fell upon the sopha also . 
Nothing passed upon the sopha , -- no , certainly nothing -- censurable by canon laws , -- or any laws , but those of a refined delicacy , -- and yet Lady Ann was angry , -- monstrous angry , and called Sir George very hard names . 
Sir George had the pleasure to see the last sparks of anger fly from her lovely eyes . 
when , turning them upon Sir George , she said , `` Monster ! 
Sir George did not endeavour to vindicate himself : That was impossible . 
He only laid the fault upon the force of her beauty ; -- upon the power of her charms . 
`` My dear Lady Ann , '' says he , `` there are moments when you are absolutely irresistible . 
Sir George assured her he had no such design . 
Sir George began to recover the timidity of his character very fast , and to feel himself look as simple as Lady Ann could wish . 
Sir George did take it , -- but mechanically . 
-- It did not make the heart vibrate with pleasure , -- it only made the head feel -- `` like a smoke jack , '' -- and gave his face a fine air of fatuity . 
Lady Ann saw this vacancy of intelligence , in Sir George 's aspect , and attributed it to the sudden manifestation of her own kindness : She saw him overwhelmed , deprived of the power of speech , and exulted in the force of her charms . 
Sir George obeyed this welcome command . 
He took her hand . 
He led her in to the ladies ; then , remembering an appointment , took his leave . 
Sir George Paradyne now found it absolutely necessary to think ; for which purpose he hastened to Grosvenor-square , precipitated himself into his library , and then prepared himself for intensity of cogitation in an easy chair . 
His ideas come at command , and follow each other exactly in the order he describes ; of all this , Sir George was well convinced , for he had pleaded the cause of liberty and free will , against the few advocates for necessity , which were to be found at Oxford ; and against Lindsay , who was unfortunately tainted by this heretic and abominable doctrine . 
At this dinner Sir George was not disposed to talk ; nor Lady Mary either , till the fourth glass of madeira had revived her dropping spirits . 
Then she found means to inform Sir George that this was her night ; and to let him know , in the most acrimonious terms our language will permit , how void he was of filial duty , never to attend these her routs . 
It is true , Lady Mary 's lectures had now arrived at their he plus ultra of perfection ; they no longer hurt Sir George . 
At every opportunity , he knew they must come , as certainly as fate ; he therefore gave his imagination leave to wander , and was often rewarded for this dutiful inattention , by delightful reveries , in which Miss Colerain formed the principle object . 
This night , however , not knowing what better to do , he attended Lady Mary 's rout , which he was surprised to find so fashionable and splendid . 
Sir George admired , bowed and obeyed . 
On his pillow the next morning , Sir George found his mental powers more his own , but not sufficiently capacious to comprehend all Lady Ann . 
Of having said , or designed to say , any thing but what modern gallantry permits , or perhaps demands , he entirely acquited himself . 
A month was wanting of the time fixed for Sir George 's continental tour , and nothing was yet arranged . 
But since little indiscretions were likely to be attended with claims upon his affection or his honour , it was best to avoid little indiscretions . 
He could not stay in London without seeing Lady Ann ; it was therefore best to leave it , repair to his country seat , and there prepare for his journey . 
The same day he respectfully acquainted Lady Mary with his intention , at the same time requesting her to make use of his town or country house , at the expence , if she pleased , of half his annual income . 
This was perfectly agreeable to Lady Mary ; nor did she once question him concerning the cause of this sudden resolution , so satisfied was she with the effect . 
Common politeness required that Sir George should take leave of Lady Ann , and the fear of indiscretions made him wish it might be not solus cum sola ; so he called at Mr. Harcourt 's lodging , and fortunately found him at home . 
To Sir George 's request of walking with him to Mrs. Harcourt 's , he answered , `` that he came most opportunely ; for he was going there to thank Lady Ann Brixworth for a Captain 's commission , which had been given him that morning unsolicited and unexpected . 
`` I am come , '' says Sir George , `` to take leave of Lady Ann for three long years , and to thank her for the many agreeable hours spent in her society . '' 
`` I really have no meaning , '' said Sir George , `` but what my words import . 
To Sir George , '' added she , with an air of disdain , `` I have only to wish bon voyage ; and if he finds honour put up to sale at any foreign markets , to recommend the purchase of a little , for his own use . '' 
said Sir George . 
`` It must be my endeavour , '' answered Lady Ann , `` not to think of Sir George Paradyne . '' 
`` Captain Harcourt was astonished to see Lady Ann alternately pale and red , and walking backwards and forwards with indignant majesty , whilst Sir George had the air of a man confused . 
Recovering himself , he said , `` if I have offended Lady Ann by any particular inadvertency , I ask her pardon . 
`` I have not , '' answered Sir George , simply . 
To me , Sir George Paradyne stands open and confest ; I wish I could say , for the virtues of honour and sincerity . '' 
`` It is not for me , '' replied Sir George , `` to dispute a lady 's prerogative , especially that of liberty of speech . 
`` Peace and happiness to Lady Ann Brixworth , '' said Sir George , bowing ; `` as long as I have a heart , that will be one of its warmest wishes . '' 
So saying , Sir George hastily withdrew . 
He could not find in his heart to be angry at Lady Ann Brixworth , the cause of her resentment was too flattering to his vanity ; but if there arose in his mind sentiments of piety in her favour , which inclined him to hesitate , before he decided absolutely against an union with an opulent young heiress , who had even confessed an affection for him ; it was opposed by her vanity , her love of play , her want of solid accomplishment , and Miss Colerain . 
For the idea of this lady was perpetually intruding amongst his other ideas , without any sort of right , much against Sir George 's will , and sometimes to his displeasure . 
When he returned to Grosvenorsquare , he found a letter which run thus : `` Sir George , `` The suddenness of your departure from Lady Ann B 's , prevented an explanation which seems to be necessary between that lady and you . 
Sir George knew well that Captain Harcourt was seduced into error by gratitude , the most amiable of human motives . 
He knew that he had only to speak , and the cloud that obscured Harcourt 's mental discernment would be dispelled . 
But the point of honour would not permit him to speak . 
Sir George then answered thus : `` You imagine then , Captain Harcourt , that if I am the delinquent you do me the favour to suppose me , it is by the point of your sword I am to be compelled to justice . 
`` Your very humble servant , `` G. Paradyne . '' 
When Sir George , accompanied by John Lake Fielding , Esq. and Captain Harcourt , by a brother officer , entered the field of honour , the action was begun , like the battle of Fontenoy , by taking off their hats to each other . 
The Captain said that Sir George knew well what was expected from him , which if he did not chuse to comply with , it was he who chose the consequence . 
Sir George replied , that the Captain had called him into the field upon a very frivolous motive , and , as it appeared to him , upon a very impertinent one ; it lay with him therefore to retract and apologize , which , if he did not chuse , it was he who chose the consequence . '' 
The lot fell upon the captain ; who fired Sir George returned it . 
The seconds then enquired of the firsts , if either were wounded ; which being answered in the negative , they asked if either were disposed to recede , and this being negatived also , the captain fired again , and the pistol fell from Sir George 's hand . 
On enquiry , the ball was found to have lodged in the fleshy part of Sir George 's right arm ; and rendered him unable to return the fire . 
So , Lady Mary being out , Sir George sent for Lindsay to dine with him , and they spent the evening very usefully , in moralizing upon the various follies of mankind . 
She saw it , and enquiring if Sir George was at home , had the goodness , even before breakfast , to go up to his apartment . 
It might have been expected , that maternal fondness would have led her to enquire into the nature and danger of Sir George 's wound . 
`` My dear Sir George , '' said she , `` you will certainly drive me one day to distraction . 
Sir George answered , `` That gentlemen made it a rule never to talk about these things when they were over . '' 
Fortune had been uncomplaisant the evening before ; and it came into her mind , that this presumptuous affair would postpone Sir George 's intention of leaving town ; and , consequently , her sole and undivided authority . 
Notwithstanding Sir George 's dutiful prayers to heaven , he could not obtain from it a patience -- without bounds . 
He replied , with too little consideration , `` Since , madam , I am never to experience any part of the maternal character , but its harshness and its discord , I know not what obligation nature or society imposes on me to endure it . 
So saying , Sir George , with his handkerchief at his eyes , withdrew to his library . 
There was not , perhaps , in all the materia medica , one article which could have so soon alleviated Lady Mary 's complaint , as the last clause in Sir George 's speech . 
The post-coach was at the door , ready to convey Sir George , Mr. Lindsay , and the surgeon to Dennington ; when Captain Harcourt , pale and trembling with agitation , made his way to the room where Sir George was giving the last orders to old Cartwright , his steward . 
Him the Captain regarded not ; and seemed , without being able to speak , about to throw himself at Sir George 's feet . 
`` If I am any way the cause of this perturbation , Captain Harcourt , '' said Sir George , `` be pacified . 
It was to you then , Sir George , not to Lady Ann , I was indebted for my commission . 
He asked me , an hour ago , if Sir George Paradyne had ravished my mother ? 
It must be that , says he , or something as atrocious , that could make you raise your arm against the man from whom , two days since , you accepted a commission . 
`` I know nothing of the matter , '' said the Major , `` but that it was obtained by Sir George Paradyne 's interest , his application , and his money . 
If Lady Ann pays him again , that , in part , lessens the obligation . '' 
`` Ladies , '' -- said the smiling Sir George , -- `` have no weapons of -- but their tongues and their nails ; and you may think yourself happy , Harcourt , in having excited only the former . '' 
The captain railed at the dear sex outrageously , and was beginning after the manner of Castalio , to enumerate all the evils they had brought upon unhappy man ; but Sir George , who loved the sweet kind , and did not believe them capable of any thing but a little innocent mischief for love 's sake , found means to stop , to sooth , to console , and to dismiss him , well satisfied , and assured of Sir George 's friendship . 
When they arrived in Grosvenor-square , Sir George was gone . 
Lord Auschamp wrote to Dennington , and the placable Sir George yielded to permit his mother the use of his town and country house ; with the addition of 3000l . 
Mr. James Paradyne was gone to a celebrated hunt in a neighbouring country ; the country was dull ; it wanted a month before travelling on the continent could be pleasant ; and Sir George was unhappy without knowing why . 
-- Mr. Lindsay , who thought he did know why , proposed a tour , the object of which should be to inspect his own country 's arts and manufactures , its agriculture and its commerce . 
Sir George embraced the proposal with alacrity ; and they set out . 
Sir George , who stood at the parlour window , beckoned to his servant , who was among the crowd , and gave him some orders in a whisper . 
Sir George , pleased with the doctor 's dexterity of evasion , sent him a present of five guineas , and desired his company to dinner . 
He accepted both the money and the invitation with great thankfulness ; and retired to his chamber to disrobe . 
When he appeared in the parlour , he presented to the wondering eyes of Mr Lindsay , the well known features of a fellow student at Cambridge , with whom he had had some degree of intimacy . 
Common gratulations ended , they dined ; after which Sir George said , `` It is evident , Mr Jones , that you are a scholar and a man of sense ; I fear we owe the pleasure of your company here to some misfortune . 
`` Sir George , '' Mr. Jones replied , `` I must own that I am not without misfortunes ; nor without the follies that deserve them . 
`` These are unfortunate circumstances , no doubt , '' said Sir George , -- `` may we enquire how you came into such a group . '' 
`` A most extraordinary idea , '' exclaimed Sir George , `` as if the first , the most important of all arts , had arrived at its ultimate perfection ; or if it was possible to apply genius better , than to the improvement of that , by which all conditions of human life subsist . '' 
`` You are undoubtedly right , Sir George , '' said Mr. Jones . 
`` You are the first of your profession , '' said Sir George , `` who has attempted to sell nothing in the shape of nothing ; how came such a thought to strike you ? '' 
You spoiled my experiment , Sir George , but have not certainly diminished my profits . 
`` But what , '' said Sir George , `` would your bishop say , if he knew this trade of yours ? '' 
`` Well , '' said Sir George , `` should you leave it off think you , if your salary was doubled ? 
`` This being so , '' said Sir George , `` do me the favour to accept the 20l . 
A Scene of a far different kind was preparing for Sir George at Birmingham , a place scarcely more distinguished for useful and ornamental manufacture , than for gentlemen who excel in natural philosophy , in mechanics , and in chemistry . 
In the exhibition room here , Sir George Paradyne 's eye was caught by some ornamental toys , finished in a taste superior to the rest . 
Some paintings upon certain of these arrested his view . 
He thought he saw here the representation of objects he had somewhere really seen . 
On a more accurate examination , for the objects were in miniature , he recognized a view he had oft admired , -- the south view from Combor church yard . 
A small degree of sickness took Sir George on the recognition of these objects , and leaning on Lindsay , he went a few minutes into the open air . 
Sir George recovered soon , and returned into the room with agitated nerves , a quickened pulse , and an air of assumed unconcernedness . 
He resolved upon a perfect apathy to all foolish sensations ; to ask questions with cool indifference ; and was surprised to find his functions no longer in the power of his will . 
Mr. Lindsay saw all this , without seeming to observe ; and he took upon himself to ask Sir George 's questions . 
These , said he to the proprietor , seem to be works of superior taste . 
said Sir George , with a tremulous voice . 
`` If she had a lover , '' said Sir George , `` he might apprehend no contemptible rival in you , Sir . '' 
asked Sir George . 
asked Sir George . 
Sir George rewarded the courtesy of the master of the works , by a purchase of all those toys which had received the embellishing hand of Miss Colerain ; and he ordered them to be sent to Miss Carlill , to whom he wrote his desire that they might be deposited at Combor White House . 
Upon the road , Sir George gave himself up wholly to the pleasures of silence and sighs . 
Not a single observation escaped him . 
Sir George found he had seen enough , and requested Mr Lindsay to go alone . 
Sir George could not reason ; he could only feel . 
All the answer he made to a most excellent discourse , was , that infinitely beyond all comparison , Miss Colerain had the greatest combination of talents to please , that ever he saw in woman . 
`` She plays , '' said Sir George , `` as well as she paints . 
-- says Sir George , -- `` Of who then ? '' 
`` I was thinking of her however , '' continued Sir George . 
`` Dear Lindsay , '' said Sir George , `` have you no feeling ? '' 
`` Sir George ! '' 
As soon as Sir George could be made to perceive the reasonableness of this proposal , he assented to it . 
Miss Colerain returned for answer , that though unaccustomed to visits of any kind , she could not reconcile herself to a failure of respect to Sir George Paradyne , to whom she should always own great obligations . 
She received Sir George in her sitting apartment , where every thing had the air of simple neatness , and most of all , herself . 
Neither ease nor grace , those most conspicuous qualities in our modern heroes or heroines , whose manners are upon record in every circulating library , were at the instant of meeting , conspicuous in Sir George Paradyne or in Miss Colerain . 
Upon the road from Birmingham , Sir George had thought of nothing but the pleasure he was going to give and to receive ; for having obtained a solid victory over his pride , and diminished , if not annihilated the opposition of Mr. Lindsay , it never occurred to him that any other difficulties remained . 
When after the first ceremonies therefore , Sir George hastened into the midst of things , and with all the impetuosity of a lover , and confidence of success , he had declared he came to throw himself and fortune at her feet ; he was surprised to find no exterior symptoms of emotion ; no emanation from Miss Colerain 's eyes that denoted even that the proposition was agreeable to her . 
She gave however , no interruption to his ebullitions ; but permitted him to say quietly , what he thought proper . 
When he seemed to pause , expecting her answer , she said with a sweet , though serious simplicity , `` I thank you , Sir George ; but it is too late . '' 
Sir George started from his chair , as if an asp had bit him . 
cried he , as he strode about her apartment . 
repeated Sir George , once a minute . 
When he had sufficiently wearied himself , he sat down ; and venturing to take a look at Miss Colerain , and seeing that young lady all calm , neither ruffled by his reproaches , nor moved by his complaints ; he cried -- `` Cruel , cruel Miss Colerain ! 
`` I am much at a loss to know how the very few words I have said , could have raised this passion , '' said Miss Colerain , which I hope is the sole creator of the wretchedness of which you , Sir George , complain . '' 
answered Sir George , -- `` did you not tell me you were engaged ? 
`` Blessed be the lips , '' said Sir George , `` that have given me this ray of hope . 
`` But , '' said Sir George , `` the words too late imply , do they not , that there was a time , when I might have pleaded this cause with some hopes of success . '' 
`` I owe Sir George Paradyne too much respect , to amuse him with any thing which would deserve the names of feigned reserve , or female caprice . '' 
dear Miss Colerain , you interest and alarm me , '' said Sir George . 
asked Sir George . 
Sir George asked . 
`` Certainly they were reciprocal , my dear Miss Colerain , '' said Sir George . 
`` You reproach me , Miss Colerain , '' said Sir George . 
said Sir George , `` they were no longer in my own power . 
`` I hope , '' said Sir George , `` you accuse me wrongfully . 
`` Whatsoever it was , '' said Sir George , `` if it offended you , Miss Colerain , I ask your pardon , and entreat you to forget it . '' 
`` I have no desire , '' Miss Colerain answered , `` to remember any thing to the prejudice of Sir George Paradyne . '' 
`` I hope then , '' said Sir George , `` you will retract your heart-chilling negative , and say no more , it is too late . '' 
`` If , '' said Sir George , `` I once possessed , or might have possessed your affections , what have I since done to forfeit this blessing , more than you have now forgiven ? '' 
`` You are above me , Sir George , '' said Miss Colerain . 
Miss Colerain , '' said Sir George , `` how many reproaches do you make me ! '' 
`` Be candid , madam , '' said Sir George ; `` do not your last words imply a censure on my conduct ? '' 
`` This will not do , Miss Colerain , '' said Sir George , `` you are not candid now . 
`` I keep no spies upon your conduct , Sir George , '' answered Miss Colerain . 
`` But not with approbation , '' said Sir George . 
Miss Colerain , '' said Sir George , amazed . 
`` I beg you will excuse my impertinence , '' continued Miss Colerain ; `` indeed I could not speak to you thus improperly , if -- if -- though certain to be nothing more to Sir George Paradyne , than I now am -- '' Miss Colerain 's voice failed her ; her eyes were suffused with tears . 
So , on seeing them , were Sir George 's . 
He took her hand , and said , with trembling tenderness , `` Is it for me and my errors you weep , Miss Colerain ? '' 
`` No -- do not weep , '' resumed Sir George . 
On this subject Sir George became eloquent , insinuating , and almost irresistible . 
`` No , Sir George , '' said she , withdrawing her hand ; `` no -- I intreat I may be no more importuned upon this subject -- as distressing to me as unavailing to you . '' 
cried Sir George . 
`` Indeed , Sir George , '' Miss Colerain replied , `` I am too young for a preceptress ; and you are young . 
Sir George asked . 
`` I fear , '' said Sir George , `` I am not obliged to Miss Carlill . 
`` I own , Miss Colerain , '' said Sir George , `` that I have not spent all my time to the best purposes ; but I know not that I have done any thing worthy of severe reproof . '' 
`` My fair and severe reprover , '' said Sir George ; `` you have erroneous information . 
asked Sir George . 
`` Upon my honour , Miss Colerain , '' said Sir George , `` I never gave any cause for such a report , but that of frequenting Lady Ann 's house . '' 
Sir George made another effort to conquer Miss Colerain 's prejudices ; but in vain . 
He begged permission to renew his visits . 
`` Let me '' said Sir George , `` obtain something from you . 
I beg pardon , Sir George , but I prefer it to obligation , infinitely . '' 
`` May I not hope , '' Sir George asked , `` a kinder reception when I return ? '' 
`` Sir George , '' replied Miss Colerain , with quickness , `` I will neither give nor receive a promise . '' 
`` Surely , surely , '' said Sir George , `` you are cruel to an extreme . '' 
`` It were better you did not ask it , Sir George ; but be that as you please . '' 
Below , Sir George enquired for Susanna , and leaving his purse in her hand , with the same effort of good humour with which he had bid adieu to Miss Colerain , he desired she would pray for him to her mistress , three times a-day ; then stepping into the carriage he drove off . 
We must now leave the ungracious Miss Colerain to her fate , and attend the tender hearted and generous Sir George Paradyne , -- to Germany . 
As he was extremely restless , dejected , incapable of business , and detesting study , -- Mr. Lindsay thought it expedient to give him as much motion as he would bear , in a country which would present the fewest incitements to ease and indolence , and to give him subjects to exercise the understanding , without softening the heart . 
Letters to the Queen , by Monsieur de Luc , had sometimes engrossed their attention ; and Mr. Lindsay proposed to Sir George to visit Germany with the books in their hands , and to endeavour to believe as Monsieur de Luc has believed . 
Sir George was perfectly acquiescent , and as Mr. Fielding had proposed going the tour with Sir George , it was necessary to write to inform him of their intention , and where he might join them in any part of the ensuing summer he chose . 
Mr. Fielding returned the following answer : I thank you , dear Paradyne , for your superlative kindness . 
Heaven forbid , in short , that I should deny any thing which Monsieur de Luc , a man so largely endowed with talents for faith , would have me believe , especially , since it is so easy to conceive that God might not like his antediluvian world , and that therefore he chose to tumble it into the sea , and to tumble this other out , this world of ours , Paradyne , so full of valorous men and beauteous women . 
To this dear bewitching part of his new work , I find myself rather addicted , insomuch , that till towards autumn , when my charming Hyena 's have left their watering places , and gone into village cantonments , I can not leave them . 
Sir George then , having wrote to Lady Mary , to Mrs. Birimport , and Mr. James Paradyne , crossed the sea , and travelled through Holland to Osnaburgh , where he had directed the first letters from England to be sent . 
There he found many , amongst others the following : `` Dear George , What with this damned gout and your cursed haste , I had not time to give you my opinion of things . 
Your Greek and latin was well enough for a parson , but they wo n't do for a gentleman , George . 
The women have them all now a-days , George , and teach 'em the ton ; that is to dress , and dance , and paint . 
The travellers occupied themselves several days in the environs of Osnaburg , whence Sir George wrote the following answers : To Mr. James Paradyne , I am always pleased to hear from my dear uncle , and thank him for his opinion of things . 
I am his affectionate and obedient nephew , George Paradyne . 
Other English travellers have found at the courts of this granary of great and small kings , the most polite , most condescending , most conversible amongst the rulers of men ; and why may not Sir George Paradyne import a few regal smiles , regal apothegms , and regal bon mots ? 
As to Sir George , it appears that he was not in the humour to think a matter animate or inanimate , worth his notice . 
He kept no journal ; made no remarks ; visited no connoisseurs ; danced with no ladies ; dined with no kings . 
In short , as far as corporeal motion was concerned , he was an automaton , moved by the will of Mr. Lindsay ; -- with respect to intellect , he endeavoured to turn it towards Monsieur de Luc ; some power , greater than his own , directed it towards the image of Miss Colerain . 
Afraid the growing indifference of Sir George might lead to undesirable effects , he determined to shorten the tour one half ; and wrote Mr. Fielding a request to meet them at Spa as early as midsummer . 
Sir George had written twice to Mrs. Birimport , and had once been answered . 
Sir George had shewn it to Mr. Lindsay ; and was expressing his fears for his sister 's happiness one morning at breakfast , when Sir George 's gentleman , a Mr. Carter , a decent middle-aged man , who was waiting , looked as if he had something to say , but was withheld by a respectful timidity . 
Sir George wrote to his sister in the kindest manner ; and grieved , that it was not in his power to give her more essential consolation . 
He wrote also to Miss Colerain , as he had done several times before , by way of consolation to himself . 
There was however much company , and such as might have amused a less sickly mind than Sir George 's . 
But , the waters once tasted , the country once seen , the music once heard , and the ladies once admired , all the pleasures of Spa were to him exhausted . 
He was actually meditating to proceed for Italy , when the arrival of Mr. Fielding , in company with Sir George 's English acquaintance , Count Colliano and the Marquis de Valines , changed his intention , -- and himself . 
In what stage of the progress Sir George was when he left London , I do not know exactly . 
But he had renounced it ; for both Lindsay and reason had demonstrated its follies . 
`` I should have been with you something sooner , my dear Paradyne , '' said Mr. Fielding , `` but that upon the road I fell in with a family from Wales . 
`` A family of merit I suppose , '' said Sir George . 
The daughter -- Ah , Paradyne -- there 's the girl of girls ; the child of pure nature . 
`` You would not seduce her sure , '' said Sir George . 
Fielding , '' said Sir George ; `` spare her innocence . '' 
`` Marry , '' said Sir George , `` and love as much as thou wilt . '' 
`` Common place , '' answered Sir George . 
In one month , such is the prevalence of good company , Sir George began to think again , this world had its pleasures ; in two , he partook of these pleasures liberally . 
Most willingly I would have exhibited in Sir George Paradyne , a character always wise , good , chaste , benevolent , and patriotic ; a model for faithful lovers ; a pattern card for posterity . 
And the critics answered -- to endue a young rich gentleman of quality , in the reign of George the Third , with too many virtues , is to violate the rules of probability so much , that -- `` That what ? '' 
Every good Englishmen believes , that excellence is only to be found in his own country ; or is attainable only by his own countrymen . 
These vivacities were not to the taste of Mr. Lindsay : He made remonstrances , which Mr. Fielding laughed at , and Sir George neglected . 
The good sense of his young friend was giving way to the flash of wit ; his excellent morals to gallantry , to dissipation , and riot . 
He saw his influence lost , and would have returned immediately to England ; but that he wished to prevent the ruin of the ignorant but innocent Miss Fluellen , to which he discovered the insidious attentions of Mr. Fielding were manifestly directed . 
There 's Sir George Paradyne , as pretty a man to the full , and a deal richer . 
He says to me , not three days ago , -- your niece is a divine creature , Miss Fluellen , and pressed my hand , just as though he had been a lover . 
-- And do n't you remember , Deb , whilst Sir George was talking in this polite elegant stile to me , what was you doing ? 
Howsoever , it is certain they are gone out with sword and pistol ; and Sir George and the French gentleman , are gone to see fair play . 
But she had infinite delicacy , and tenderness of heart ; and not knowing the dreadful effect it might have upon the poor Boiard , she chose to make the explanation to Sir George Paradyne . 
Sir George admired Mrs. Almon . 
At the assemblies , Sir George sought her for his partner , and had sometimes pressed her fair hand harder than the dance required . 
Of late too , he had begun to sigh ; for there are cases in which men sigh , as easily as women weep ; and the lady having once thrown an air of pity into her face , he paid half a dozen rich compliments to her beauty and fine sense , and lamented the loss his country would suffer by her emigration . 
answered Sir George . 
`` How you charm me , madam , '' Sir George replied ; `` my own freedom can scarce please me more , than to hear your 's is to be recalled at pleasure . '' 
By means of an English gentleman who had lately left Spa , Sir George knew very well the nature of the contract between the ladies and the Boiards . 
`` You seem , '' said Mrs. Almon , `` to value liberty , Sir George , like an Englishman . '' 
But what , Sir George ! 
`` It is enough , '' Sir George answered , `` to have seen the necks of my neighbours . 
`` Really , Sir George , '' said the lady , `` you are an agreeable gentleman . 
Sir George endeavoured to convince the lady , it was much too soon to be wife ; and the lady was convinced , not at once , but after every thing proper for conviction had been said and done . 
He had reason to believe Sir George was the confidant of Mr. Fielding , in his design upon the innocent Miss Fluellen ; and he could not but conclude , that a man who could assist in seducing innocence , was not himself far from the arts of seduction . 
Sir George had that morning attended Mrs. Almon to the Geronstore ; when he returned , Mr. Lindsay went into his apartment , and with no small solemnity of countenance , requested an hour 's audience . 
`` To indulge me with the humours of a splenetic morality , '' said Sir George . 
`` I can not trifle now , Sir George , '' said Mr. Lindsay . 
`` Well then -- be serious -- '' Sir George replied . 
`` To be serious then , '' answered Mr. Lindsay , `` you are no longer that Sir George Paradyne I loved and honoured . '' 
says Sir George , `` this is to the point . '' 
Who now drinks , and games with more spirit than Sir George Paradyne ? 
`` The entrance of Mr. Fielding prevented Sir George 's reply . 
With a look of angry contempt , he told Mr. Lindsay he was happy to see him . 
`` Upon my word gentleman , '' said Sir George , `` a mighty polite and agreeable tone this , and on the part of Lindsay quite unexpected . 
`` There is so little inimical rancour , gentlemen , in this quarrel of yours , '' said Sir George , `` that you must give me leave to try if I can not make you friends . '' 
`` This is but reasonable , '' said Sir George . 
`` You hear , Sir George , said Fielding . 
I must , if I can , put him out of it . 
`` You hear , Lindsay , '' said Sir George ; `` I hope you will oblige Mr. Fielding . '' 
`` I think , Lindsay , '' said Sir George , `` considering Mr. Fielding as my friend , you might put off a little of this stern virtue . '' 
I will not put it off on any consideration , '' said Lindsay , `` no , not for you , Sir George ; not if you yourself were the principal in this very honourable business , instead of the auxiliary , which , to my eternal regret , I find you are . '' 
Sir George was rather struck with this , and not answering , Lindsay went on . 
`` And so , Sir , '' says Mr. Fielding , `` having taken upon yourself to be Sir George 's tutor , you are willing to extend your gracious liberality to all his friends . 
`` That is for me , '' said Sir George . 
When they were in the next apartment , Sir George began by saying , `` That although he had had the complaisance to fall in with his views upon Miss Fluellen , he must not suppose he would carry it to such a serious length as to put the life of his friend to the risque ; a man of firm honour and integrity ; that the business with the young lady was bad enough of itself , and would by no means bear inspection , but if it were to be further loaded with actions , which honour could not justify , he must beg leave to leave the pursuit of them entirely to himself . 
cries he , `` and honour justifies them every day ? 
`` Just now , dear Fielding , '' said Sir George , `` I could wish to be serious . '' 
`` Unless I preach women , '' said Sir George . 
What more Sir George said concerning Mrs. Hammet , is not come to my knowledge . 
Sir George took such incessant care to be engaged , that for several successive days , Mr. Lindsay had not once an opportunity to see him . 
At length , he heard that the two Boiards had left the Spa with their ladies ; and that Sir George and Mr. Fielding had the complaisance to attend them as far as Liege . 
Two days he waited , not indeed very patiently , their return ; the third morning arose with a rumour , that two English Milords had stolen the wives of two foreign noblemen , and carried them to France . 
`` No , Sir George , not to see the man I once loved , lost to honour and to himself . '' 
I presume , if you chuse not to come to Paris , my letter will find you at your old lodgings in Bloomsbury , whither I will write -- if I am not absolutely lutely drowned at Paris , and inform you where you may address your admonitions , which will be always welcome to your sincere , but foolish friend , `` G. Paradyne . '' 
He had scarcely cash enough to carry him to England ; or , if he had , did he know yet whence to transmit to Sir George . 
The aunt took him aside to inform him she was sure they would be all lost ; they should never get back into Wales . 
So Mr. Lindsay , always answering both the ladies with great politeness , had still the resolution to adhere to his ill-omened purpose ; and arriving at his old lodgings in Bloomsbury without accident , found there the following letter from Sir George Paradyne . 
For if I have any knowledge in woman -- she will think no more Of that foolish fellow , Thy friend -- that was -- George Paradyne . '' 
Sir George thought them so . 
But in spite of Paris and all things in it , Sir George had his hours of reflection . 
He had many things yet to unlearn before his present course of education could be compleat . 
Above all he had to learn the noble art of suspending the action of the mind ; of preventing it from obtruding its saucy remonstrances . 
Sir George did not break this poetic axiom . 
If he did not advance with the rapidity of his friend Fielding , he acquired such a kind of reputation amongst the academicians of the ton , and amongst the bons vivans , as not to disgrace his country . 
I fancy he must have been near the summit of his attainments , when , in a letter to Mr. Lindsay , he could speak so gaily of the accident mentioned in it . 
`` In loco , Sir George Paradyne , I grant , '' says my preceptor . 
One , quite new , awaited Sir George . 
Fredeul , a celebrated jeweller , called upon him one morning , to request the payment of 22,000 livres . 
She had , indeed , too many proofs of Sir George 's generosity , to doubt his indulgence , were she to request it ; but Sir George should never be importuned for unnecessary expences on her account . 
His interest could not be dearer to her were she Lady Paradyne . 
Hitherto Sir George had imitated his father 's oeconomy , in paying for every thing when purchased ; so that he had never before been asked . 
It threw him into a little embarrassment . 
Cash began to run scarce ; but so far was Sir George from the unblushing effrontery of saying , for the hundredth time -- Call again next week -- he could not say it once . 
Before Sir George could find his answer , he-begged ten thousand pardons ; he was the last man in the world to put a gentleman to inconvenience . 
Sir George at length found words to assure Mr. Fredeul he should not be long a sufferer by his politeness . 
Mr. Fredeul replied , `` he should suffer infinitely if he understood Sir George to have been incommoded by his importunity . 
So with many bows he departed . 
When it came to be rumoured that Sir George Paradyne was not as rich as the devil , he found that his paternal oeconomy had not been sufficiently extensive . 
Messieurs les marchands des modes , les perfumiers , et les autres , on the part of madame , humbly presented him with accounts amounting to about 16000 French pounds more . 
Sir George however did not know life . 
But for a small matter of dross to upbraid a lady who had shewn such liberal sentiments , and had given him her dear self , was what he could not do . 
He only complained to Mr. Fielding , who laughed , that such a bagatelle should give him a moment 's perturbation . 
`` But , '' says Sir George , `` you know I have lost at play , and my menage here is actually higher than my revenue . 
`` Not at the age of effrontery , '' said Sir George , gravely . 
`` This day Sir George would not dine . 
His party was for the Italian theatre . 
He chose solitude and the Tuilleries . 
There , with folded arms , avoiding the frequented walks , he mused till the approach of evening . 
With eyes fixed upon the earth , he met two ladies , whom he would have passed unnoticed , but for a kind of half-suppressed exclamation which reached his ear . 
He looked . 
Sir George , rooted for a minute to the spot , at length turned his steps after them . 
`` I hope Sir George Paradyne is well ? '' 
said Sir George , `` these are the cold and freezing words of common politeness ? '' 
`` What more , '' Miss Colerain asked , `` does Sir George Paradyne expect of me ? '' 
`` Nothing , '' Sir George answered , `` I feel myself unworthy . 
`` Yes , -- penitence , '' replied Sir George , `` can you doubt it . '' 
`` Will you , '' asked Sir George , -- `` will you permit me to prove it ? 
`` Miss Carlill too , '' said Sir George , `` is your bosom marble ? '' 
Sir George looked , and sent after it many a sigh , without once thinking of watching where it went . 
They passed Sir George , and went on . 
Sir George answered with great civility -- for an Englishman . 
Sir George answered , `` he was afraid he had more honour done him by the compliment than he deserved . 
`` Yes , '' Sir George replied , `` above all , his follies . '' 
`` I believe , '' Sir George answered , `` the grand secret lies in making our own laws , and granting our own money . 
`` We have some , '' Sir George replied , `` which we think excellent . 
`` We have , '' answered Sir George , `` our Magna Charta , and our Bill of Rights . 
He cordially invited Sir George . 
Sir George had never spent so agreeable an evening . 
The society , which had pleased Sir George so much the preceding night , made him blush in the morning . 
He made comparisons betwixt his old friends and his new ; betwixt his new friends and himself . 
He was obliged to confess that such names as Baill , Fayette , and Mirabeau , would probably interest posterity ; whilst his own -- oh , his own perhaps might endure a month -- in the annals of frivolity . 
In this humour , Sir George attended the breakfast table of Mrs. Almon . 
She talked to him of the opera , the court , and the gallantries of yesterday . 
The chattering of a magpye would at this moment have been as agreeable to Sir George . 
Sir George silently , gave all Fermiers generales to the devil . 
`` It is difficult , no doubt , '' Sir George replied ; `` but I have great faith , when the folly of mankind is in question . '' 
`` That generosity , I do certainly , '' said Sir George . 
`` You , madam , I presume , '' says Sir George , `` think I am not yet fool enough . '' 
`` Oh , that , '' says Sir George , `` can never equal Mrs. Almon 's -- merit ; what generosity can ? '' 
`` What humour are you in , Sir George ? '' 
`` The humour to be soise , '' answered he , `` heaven continue it . 
`` Yes -- thank heaven , my lady , '' replied Sir George . 
Sir George had not time to consider this phenomenon , before Mrs. Hammet came in , hanging upon the arm of Mr. Fielding . 
at the prodigy of a lady 's tears , '' said Sir George . 
`` Let it be a temple , Paradyne , '' said Fielding . 
`` Thy pontificalia , '' replied Sir George , `` the cap and bells . '' 
The conversation proceeding in the same manner , Sir George found it trifling , insipid , uninteresting ; so withdrew without ceremony , to devote himself to philosophy . 
Eight happy hours Sir George consecrated to virtue and to patriotism . 
Against despotism he wrote a bitter philippic . 
Universal benevolence seemed to inspire his pen ; and never before had he felt so highly the dignity of his nature . 
From this hour he determined to quit his follies , and to regard all pursuits , all occupations , as beneath him , that did not some way or other tend to the amelioration of the state of mankind . 
Of speculations so sublime , it is impossible a man should ever grow weary ; and Sir George determined to indulge himself till the hour of repose . 
He dined . 
A few glasses raised his spirits to a higher tone . 
He was almost in raptures . 
He took up the pen to give an account of his regeneration to Mr. Lindsay . 
After this , he began to resume his sublime ideas . 
He stretched , yawned , and at last found it absolutely necessary to get up and walk . 
What party Mrs. Almon had , he knew not , nor where it was likely she should trifle away that time which was never used but for trifling purposes . 
For himself he chose the opera . 
Arrived at the theatre , he threw his eyes around in search of patriots . 
Not one whom he knew was in the theatre . 
But , in one box , he perceived Mrs. Almon , Mrs. Hammet , the Marchioness de Craience , the Count Pore and Monsieur Groignard ; in praise of whose generosity Mrs. Almon had been so lavish in the morning ; who now sat by her side and grinned in her face with such apparent satisfaction , that Sir George thought it extremely probable the thousand louis per month were going to change their direction . 
What was this to him ? 
What was it to him , who stooped to pick up the bauble he had thrown away ? 
So he endeavoured to fix his attention upon Artaserse , and the heroes who die in song . 
For whilst Sir George was directing his ears to the music , his eyes , without orders , fixed themselves upon Monsieur Groignard and Mrs. Almon , and disturbed the peaceable possession Signor Pracini had obtained of his auditory nerves . 
Signor Pracini , on his side , disturbed Mrs. Almon in her operation on the eye ; and neither sense sent any but disordered notices to Sir George 's sensorium . 
Sir George changed his box for another , where his eyes could not play him this impertinent trick . 
Monsieur Dangeneau , of the French guards was in it ; and was so intent on giving the nomenclature of the house to a friend , that he did not perceive Sir George 's entrance . 
His Friend directed his glass to Mrs. Almon . 
Sir George not finding himself much amused by all this , left the theatre and returned home . 
Here he found preparations for un petit souper , which he found Mrs. Almon gave this evening . 
This , himself unconsulted and unnoticed , did not serve to recal his good humour . 
So ,  la mode d'Angleterre , he went to bed supperless and splenetic . 
It was not with all the grace of a polite man that Sir George paid his morning compliments to Mrs. Almon ; nor did the lady wear her accustomed aspect of sweet complacency . 
Sir George struck the first blow , by hoping she found Monsieur Groignard to her taste . 
`` I congratulate you , madam , '' said Sir George , `` he is a most accomplished gentleman . 
`` Make what suppositions you please , Sir George . '' 
`` I consider myself as no longer engaged to Sir George Paradyne . 
What becomes of me hereafter , it can not be worth his while to enquire . '' 
`` Whatsoever you have lavished , Sir George , I presume , my particular share will not stand high in the account . '' 
`` There is no necessity for unmannerly insult , Sir George . 
Sir George had not stood in contemplation of it more than five minutes , before he found the angry passions all giving way . 
Pity , and something still sweeter than pity , became soon his predominant feelings . 
He went toward the sofa , and taking that hand which covered her eyes , said in a softened accent , `` Mrs. Almon ! '' 
Her only answer was tears -- tears -- but she did not withdraw her hand . 
Sir George repeated the words in a tone still more musical . 
`` Sir George ! '' 
`` There was a time -- '' said Sir George . 
asked Sir George . 
`` You best know , Sir George . '' 
`` Certainly it does , Sir George . '' 
`` Name him not , Sir George ; he 's my aversion . 
`` My dear Sir George . '' 
We thought it was with Miss Colerain , not with Mrs. Almon , Sir George was in love . 
All I can say in favour of Sir George paradyne is , that he had a heart very much disposed to human kindness . 
That Miss Colerain was not , and Mrs. Almon was present to receive the benefit of this disposition ; and finally , that Sir George was not quite twenty and two . 
Let us leave him a while to bask in the sun-shine of Mrs. Almon 's smiles , and revel in the gaities of Paris ; let us cross the channel , and see if England has any thing worthy our notice . 
It would have been giving too a sanction to Sir George 's imprudent -- then imprudent -- passion for Miss Colerain . 
Miss Fluellen too gave him many a soft emotion , which pride and prudence together scarce enabled him to combat with success . 
Perhaps he saved himself only by flight . 
Even in London , he was scarcely safe , for the contention was renewed by a letter from that simple charmer , which will be the subject of the next chapter . 
Although he did Sir George Paradyne the honour to call him his dearest friend , he had formed a friendship of much greater intimacy with Count Colliano , who had come from London to Paris ; and who , on his first arrival Sir George shunned , as far as was possible , without transgressing the laws of politeness . 
Accident however , or perhaps not accident , brought about an occurrence which shewed the Count to be so much the gentleman , that Sir George now courted , as much as he before shunned him . 
Fielding imparted this to Sir George in confidence . 
Perhaps there is scace one wife in all London who would have taken the pains she did , to keep Sir George from thinking ; that enemy to gallantry , to pleasure , and herself . 
Sir George could not reward her for all this , as he wished . 
His stock in the funds was gone , and he had drained his banker . 
A few rouleaus of one hundred louis each , occasionally tossed in her lap , was all he had done . 
He was sensible she deserved a great deal more ; and the race abovementioned , gave him an opportunity to be generous , without the disgraceful means of anticipating his revenues . 
Sir George offered bets upon this spirited calculation , all of which were taken by Count Colliano ; when in the midst of the second heat , Alfred was seen to slip behind , and neither that heat nor the next , could be prevailed upon to take the lead by any persuasion whatever . 
It must be owned , Sir George did not bear this reverse with all the nonchalance of a philosopher , or of a well initiated gamester . 
He drank champaigne in abundance to get it out of his head ; and when the Count , like a man of honour , offered to give him his revenge at hazard , the same evening , he accepted the offer , and flew with eagerness to decide the contest . 
Sir George threw well , and gained upon the Count the first hour . 
He threw the dice into the fire , and called for fresh . 
His irritation increased with his ill fortune . 
Sir George 's mind had so harassed his body , that he did not awake till late . 
The Count called , and perceiving the symptoms , assured Sir George he did not want his money ; that he scorned to distress a gentleman ; that he would have the goodness only to ascertain the sum by a proper obligation , and take his own time for payment . 
This very genteel behaviour of the Count 's revived Sir George 's spirits . 
He gave the Count his proper obligation , and with it a cordial invitation to do him the honour to consider the hotel as his own house . 
Mrs. Almon entered to inquire of Sir George if he would do her the honour to be of her party to-day . 
The plain des Sablons had the preceding day transferred a great deal of property besides Sir George 's ; and ruin is a most ample fund of mirth for the Parisians . 
These were great consolations ; and Sir George , having laughed half an hour at other peoples follies , forgot to cry at his own . 
This airy course Sir George Paradyne had the steadiness to pursue till the winter was nearly closed , by which time his complaisance to the Count had induced him to grant other obligations to no small amount . 
He had however now got tolerably well rid of the ridiculous habit of retrospection . 
Youth , he sagely concluded , must have its follies ; the season would be over soon ; a few years oeconomy would free him from their effects ; and there was little wisdom in looking back at a dreary view , when the prospect before was all rose and carnation . 
Sir George had also forgot to think of Miss Colerain . 
One step more was wanting , to see her without emotion -- and the road to virtue would probably have been barred to him for ever . 
One day Sir George had attended Mrs. Almon , and her inseparable party thither . 
Sir George no sooner threw his eyes upon this attractive lady , than he suddenly felt himself faint ; a sickness , with dizziness seized him , and to avoid observation he left the gallery . 
Something of the same kind had happened to Miss Colerain , who Sir George saw pass him accompanied by Miss Carlill , and a well-looking gentleman about thirty . 
This did not in the least relieve his sickness . 
He followed however , at a distance , for he had too much of the mauvaise honte to approach , and saw all three ascend a fiacre and drive away . 
He sighed , and sought an unfrequented part of the garden . 
It happened that a servant of Sir George , he who attended his master at Combor , was passing along the street St. Honor at the instant Miss Colerain was alighting from the fiacre at the door of her lodgings . 
He knew her , and by way of English news , told it Sir George the same evening . 
The intelligence procured his master a restless night . 
The morning and Mrs. Almon found him pensive , silent , and absent . 
He walked into the rue St. Honor , though without the least intention to call upon Miss Colerain . 
This he durst not do . 
Yet somehow , as Mrs. Piozzi says , his daring hand had given the fatal rap , in spite of his trembling heart . 
The door opened ; he asked for Miss Colerain , and was shewn into a parlour , where Miss Colerain presently came down to attend him . 
Sir George was sensible he ought to speak , and felt infinite confusion to find himself unable . 
Miss Colerain though herself embarrassed , first found her speech . 
`` She hoped she saw Sir George Paradyne well ? '' 
`` No -- no -- you do not , Miss Colerain , '' answered Sir George . 
`` I am sorry for it , Sir George . '' 
`` No -- no -- you are not , Miss Colerain , '' Sir George replied . 
`` Why do you suppose this , Sir George ? '' 
`` If you can satisfy yourself , Sir George , by criminating me , you are welcome . '' 
`` If you are satisfied , Sir George , -- I am . '' 
`` Since you have done nothing wrong , Sir George , nothing unauthorized , the loss of my esteem must be considered as mere caprice . '' 
`` By heaven -- Miss Carlill , '' said Sir George , -- `` but you do not think these idle connections are made by the heart ? '' 
`` Miss Carlill , '' said Sir George , `` once you were my friend ; once you pleaded my cause here . '' 
`` You are very severe , Miss Carlill , '' said Sir George . 
`` Although , '' said Miss Colerain , `` I do not adopt my friend 's harsh stile of criticism , I own myself grieved and afflicted , to see Sir George Paradyne , designed by nature and fortune to be one of the first characters of his country -- to see him here at Paris -- stopt short by pleasure in the career of virtue -- pursuing trifles with avidity -- and sinking in the world 's esteem -- and his own . '' 
`` Paris is a charming school , and friend Paradyne an apt scholar . 
He may have learned to think his present pursuits the most laudable ; and to embellish them with the agreeable names of l'Esprit , le bon ton , la belle usage . '' 
may think himself under no obligation to virtuous and moral conduct ; to sustain the honour of his country ; to promote its welfare ; or to soften the calamities of human life . '' 
`` Yes , '' added Miss Carlill , `` he may think his noble fortune given him -- to buy jewels and give them to les filles de joie . 
He may think his dear Mrs. Almon speaks of his favours with gratitude rather than ridicule . 
He may think his two friends , John Fielding , and him they call Count Colliano , men of prime honour and worship ; and that they do not boast of having made him their dupe . '' 
`` Too sure then , '' said Miss Colerain , `` too sure he will be mistaken . 
How often have I felt the secret blush , when I heard Sir George Paradyne spoken of as a man who left his country for improvement ; and , in a city famous for illustrious characters in every science which does honour to mankind , seek it in theatres alone , in gaming-houses , and in the coterie of a woman lost to respectable society . '' 
`` If , '' said Sir George , striking his forehead , `` if you do not mean to drive me to distraction -- forbear . 
`` My esteem , Sir George , will always follow virtue . '' 
`` Ay -- but your heart -- that -- that -- '' `` Once it was yours , Sir George -- I scorn to disguise it . '' 
But no , '' continued Sir George , and hurrying to the window , to conceal the emotion that swelled his breast and rose into his eyes -- `` I will not ask any thing now . 
`` No , Sir George , '' answered Miss Colerain , `` we leave it to-morrow . '' 
asked Sir George . 
said Sir George , his voice softened with tenderness . 
`` It was in going thither , friend Paradyne , '' said Miss Carlill , `` we had a glance of thee -- at Soissons . 
I think , or St. Quintin , -- '' `` No more , dear merciless Miss Carlill , '' said Sir George ; `` I am sick of my follies . 
`` May heaven then bless you , my dear Cornelia , '' said Sir George , with fervor . 
Then taking her hand , he kneeled on one knee , kissed it with a respectful solemnity , and hurried out of the room . 
`` Poor Sir George , '' said Miss Colerain sinking upon a sofa -- where she wept for hours . 
Poor Sir George ! 
But this was not the sole mortifying , though instructive lesson Sir George was doomed this day to receive . 
When he left the rue St. Honor he crossed the Seine , that he might find , if possible , an unfrequented walk , where he might indulge reflection . 
He passed some hours in all the luxury of remorse ; till having resolved and again resolved , to be no longer the abject and frivolous being he had been , his mind assumed a firmer and more serene tone . 
He reflected upon the perfidy of his friends , who , he doubted not , had made him the subject of their ridicule , though he wondered how it should have come to the knowledge of Miss Colerain . 
Wearied at length , and wanting refreshment , he returned into the city , and calling in at a celebrated coffee-house , saw in earnest conversation , the Marquis de la Fayette , with Monsieur Volney , and Monsieur Chapelier . 
Sir George walked towards them ; they saw him approach , but no one moved to meet his advances . 
They returned his salute with a cool civility , uncommon amongst Frenchmen , and resumed their conversation . 
To break into this would have been rude ; he retired therefore , intending to ask an explanation of the Marquis . 
Two hours after , Sir George called at the Marquis 's hotel , was instantly admitted , and complained in a friendly tone of his reception at the coffee house . 
`` I deserve the reproof , '' answered Sir George , `` for my apology , I have only to plead , I was young -- and at Paris , '' `` Oh que oui , '' says the Marquis , `` I have heard of you often -- mais , pardonnez moi ma franchise , men of pleasure are not the society in which I am most conversant . '' 
`` It is in that character only , '' said Sir George , `` that I have been considered by you of late , Monsieur le Marquis ? '' 
`` I hope , '' said Sir George , `` I have not in that character been guilty of any act which debases me as a gentleman ? '' 
`` I beg your pardon for this intrusion , '' said Sir George . 
They embraced and parted ; Sir George much delighted to be in the way to regain his own esteem , and that of men . 
He seemed much paler than when Sir George had last seen him , and was attended by the same person . 
His eye was sunk ; its expression languid ; but he seemed to be pleased when Sir George accosted him , whom he remembered very well . 
`` To what cause , '' Sir George asked , `` do I owe the pleasure of seeing Mr. Mowbray now in Paris ? '' 
`` I travel , '' he answered , `` because I can not rest . 
`` It has been a most unfortunate connection to you , Mr. Mowbray , '' said Sir George . 
Gentlemen endeavour to avoid this by that kind of union , which you , Sir George , are said to have formed with a Mrs. Almon ; and no doubt that -- as long as we love -- is a more advantageous formula than -- as long as we live . 
There was nothing in this conversation that was peculiarly pleasing to Sir George , who answered slightly , `` his own experience had not much recommended that mode of connection , '' and then endeavoured to change the discourse by inviting Mr. Mowbray to dinner . 
`` We dine to day en famille , '' answered Sir George , `` and exactly at four . 
On Mrs. Almon 's entrance into the dining room , Sir George announced Mr. Mowbray an English gentleman , who advanced to pay her his respects . 
But it is the pencil , not the pen , which ought to describe the stiffening horror that seized him on a view of her face . 
cried he , faintly , then stood with a fixt eye , and immoveable as a statue . 
She assumed a fiert proper for such an occasion , and with a blush of anger , perhaps , -- which deepened the Paris rouge , `` I wonder , Sir George , '' says she , `` you will take the liberty to introduce gentlemen to me without previous notice . '' 
Sir George thought the reproof an odd one ; having never met it before , though he had committed the crime oft enough . 
The astonished Sir George , turning to his guest , now as livid and ghastly as if he were paying immediate obedience to the grand summoner death , saw him with trembling limbs , just ready to sink on the floor . 
Having supported , and placed him on a chair , he sent for a physician of great eminence . 
Before his arrival , Mr. Mowbray had sunk into a lethargic state , from whence no art or medicine could rouse him for a longer period than a few minutes . 
In these moments of reflection , he would press Sir George 's hand , and regard him with a look of pity , unmixed with reproach . 
He died on the third day . 
This melancholy event struck Sir George most forcibly . 
It was not , that he could charge either Mr. Mowbray 's death , or antecedent misery upon himself directly . 
When she saw that Sir George , instead of sending this gentleman to his lodgings kept him to be sick at his own hotel , she left it ; and took up her residence with Mrs. Hammet ; nor did she once trouble herself to send a single message of compliment or enquiry , either to Mowbray or himself . 
In one respect , this indecent and unfeeling behaviour was serviceable to Sir George . 
It is rather ungenteel , and to some people would be unpleasant , to tell a lady of Mrs. Mowbray 's obliging disposition , they were weary of her ; but as she had herself chose to abdicate , he had only to leave her to her own operations . 
Now it was Sir George reaped the full harvest of his past follies , in bitterness of reflection . 
He owed the Count a large sum , and , under the influence of his present notions , he owed him contempt too ; but it was scarcely eligible to pay the latter debt before the former ; and the former it was scarce possible to pay . 
In England indeed he might find means ; but if he left Paris without an apology , what would the Count think ? 
At length he determined to write to Mr. Lindsay ; and this was the letter . 
Paradyne . '' 
When Mr. Lindsay received Sir George 's letter , he sighed at human weakness , and prepared to perform his requests . 
Having previously wrote to Sir George , he flew to Dennington , and found Mr. Cartwright expecting him . 
So , Sir , as I suppose you are Sir George 's factotum , I beg the first cast of your office may be to accept my resignation . '' 
`` If Sir George has errors , Mr. Cartwright , '' said Lindsay , `` he owes them probably more to the corruption of the times , than his own corruption . '' 
`` Many young men slide in early youth , '' said Mr. Lindsay , `` and recover ; so may Sir George . 
which Sir George wants for a particular use . 
I am not Sir George 's servant ; he honours me with the name of friend . 
`` Sir George asks your service , not your property . '' 
My wife nursed Sir George . 
I loved him like one . 
Think however as well of me as I do of you , till you know I do not deserve your good opinion ; and let us have no other contest , but who shall best serve Sir George Paradyne . '' 
A banker advanced the money , and undertook the payment in Paris , immediately on Sir George 's signing a bond . 
`` Ah no , '' said Lindsay , leading her into a parlour , where they said a great many agreeable things to each other ; the gentleman lamenting Sir George 's irregularities with more compassion than gall ; the lady with more gall than compassion . 
`` You have seen Sir George , I know , '' said Mr. Lindsay . 
`` Sir George wrote me word of the circumstance , '' said Mr. Lindsay , `` and expressed much shame and contrition . '' 
`` Sir George , '' said Mr. Lindsay , `` mentioned this circumstance to me in a letter . 
It must be confessed he did not rejoice in it ; wishing , as I suppose , himself to be the sole source of fortune , as well as happiness , to Miss Colerain ; and thinking , probably , it might serve to retard , rather than promote his suit . '' 
Though Sir George has been irregular , I hope he has stopt short of vice . '' 
`` Hast thou , '' Miss Carlill asked , `` as pretty a distinction to make in favour of the virtuous life he leads with Mrs. Almon ? '' 
Might not he , Miss Carlill , have avoided madness and misery , if , instead of the connection for life , he had formed such an one , as Sir George did with Mrs. Almon . 
Is it not possible Sir George Paradyne might have found misery in marriage . '' 
`` Here it is , '' said Miss Carlill , `` but I must tell thee , thy friend Paradyne supposes she is gone to England . 
She is however determined not to admit the visits of George Paradyne . 
As he is , she will not unite her fate to his . 
Mr. Lindsay alighted at Sir George 's hotel ; it was all in confusion . 
The evening before , Sir George had been attacked by certain law officers , similar to our bound bailiffs , and carried to the conciergerie . 
As these gentlemen claimed him just at the instant he was getting into his chariot to sup with Monsieur Volney , my fair readers may conjecture , it was a political arrest . 
Count Colliano had long admired Mrs. Almon , but as she was Sir George 's mistress , not his wife , the transcendent honour of a man of gallantry , would not permit him to attempt to seduce her affections . 
Mrs. Almon saw the Count 's affection , and his delicacy . 
His person was assez bein , very well ; his manners easy ; his temper gay ; and , what weighed with the lady more than all , he was totally void of that retrogade course of sentiment , which often alarmed her in Sir George . 
He was afflicted with no hours of gloom arising from retrospection . 
In point of fortune he was supposed to be at his ease ; and talked of returning to his native country , and of devoting the remainder of his life to love and ease , could he but meet his kindred mind . 
The milkiness of nature Sir George had shewn respecting Mr. Mowbray , convinced her that she should never be able to mould him totally to her taste ; and the cool civility with which , ever since the death of Mowbray , he avoided the society of the Count and Mr. Fielding , convinced these gentlemen , that he would be no longer to theirs . 
There had happened to this honourable friend of Sir George Paradyne 's a small change of fortune . 
His grandmother 's funds had flown at the commands of play and pleasure . 
Sensible of the growing defect in his purse , and of his want of some arcana in the mysterious avocation of a gamester , he had cultivated the Count 's acquaintance with much assiduity ; and at length had formed with him a league offensive and defensive , against the sons of wealth . 
They held frequent councils ; and the result was to leave Sir Geerge Paradyne to his fate . 
The Count might have asked his money civilly of Sir George , and , in a very few days , have received it . 
But they had in their own breasts , conscious monitors of baseness of conduct to Sir George ; there was something in him , which they had wisdom enough to fear : and they chose to get out of his way with all possible speed and security . 
He put Sir George 's bonds into proper hands ; and the moment they had intelligence of his being safe in prison , Mrs. Mowbray returned to the hotel to take away all the moveables she chose to call her own ; and at break of day , this virtuous party , passed the Bastile , and took the road to Orleans . 
So it was with Sir George . 
They spoke not of his retreat at Versailles , nor at the table of the English ambassador . 
Sir George was very differently employed . 
Had Sir George been now possessed of it , he might have seen with great perspicuity the folly of taking the grinning courtesies of a gamester for friendship , or the blandishments of a wanton for love . 
But he did not chuse to look inward . 
He saw his friendship , his confidence betrayed ; his imagination had fixed upon wretches who could smile to deceive ; allure to destroy ; upon the man , by whose incitements he had left the paths of virtue and happiness , for those of voluptuous pleasures and remorse . 
In vain did this friend of man endeavour to allay the storm by arguments drawn from religion or philosophy ; Sir George could only feel . 
It was not without difficulty he could be brought to attend to his situation , and do what was necessary to regain his freedom . 
At length , having settled with the Count 's agent , just at the door of the Conciergerie , he was saluted by other officers of law , who reconveyed him to his silent mansion , again to indulge in the luxury of sentiment . 
This was the work of a combination of those traders who supplied his house . 
My readers , if I have any , will remember one of the quarrels betwixt Sir George and Mrs. Mowbray . 
In it he had touched obliquely upon the extravagance of his household expences . 
The lady , on the reconciliation had requested him to allot a certain sum for this purpose ; and if he had sufficient confidence to trust her with the arrangement , and payment , it should be her care , that that sum should not be exceeded . 
Sir George acceded ; and 100 English guineas was the weekly allotment . 
Four thousand pounds were wanting to release Sir George . 
He had little to sell , for the hotel was furnished by the proprietor . 
It was not practicable to raise the sum at Paris without diffusing more widely Sir George 's disgrace , and its cause . 
These transactions had taken place whilst her friend was confined by her lying-in , and the circumstance of Sir George 's confinement had reached her only the evening before in a whisper . 
It had cost her some tears , the traces of which were still visible when she came down to Mr. Lindsay . 
His melancholy air seemed to her a confirmation of the rumour . 
But it was of Miss Carlill he spoke , and of their agreeable meeting at Calais , not of Sir George . 
This was not what at present she most desired to hear . 
`` You have seen Sir George , I presume , Mr. Lindsay , '' says she ; `` he is well , I hope . '' 
Mr. Lindsay now related all the circumstances , always taking care to represent Sir George in the fairest light his errors would permit . 
He ended with their present dilemma . 
It extricated him from an embarrassment ; and gave him hopes Sir George had a friend in Miss Colerain 's bosom . 
For now , he wished nothing so much as Sir George 's allying himself to such a women as Miss Colerain . 
This sentiment he ventured to hint in the most delicate manner . 
`` I do not wish , Mr Lindsay , '' Miss Colerain said in answer , `` to disguise from you what passes in my mind respecting Sir George . 
I know your friendship for him . 
How amiable he once was , I can not forget . 
I loved him , as he was . 
I see him as he is with sorrow . 
Do not imagine I will yield to the weakness of my heart ; or think more of him , than as of a lost friend ; for so indeed he is . 
Do not therefore imagine , Mr. Lindsay , that my desire to assist Sir George is with a view to the consequences you hint at . 
Mr. Lindsay would have said a great deal ; but Miss Colerain , with an obliging smile , begged he would excuse her ; that her resolutions were taken ; and that it was painful to her to talk upon the subject . 
She then gave him a letter of credit upon Mons . 
Sir George had thought it unkind to be thus abandoned for the whole day , and reproached his friend with a sullen dignity . 
Arrived at Sir George 's hotel , Mr. Lindsay laid before him receipts for all the claims which had yet appeared . 
`` But how , my dear Lindsay , '' said the astonished Sir George , `` how is it ? 
said Sir George , with infinite amazement . 
His pulse beat high ; he was even rising into rapture , when Mr. Lindsay thought proper to check it by relating the whole of his conversation with Miss Colerain , as well as that with Miss Carlill . 
Sir George with a silent sigh , signed the bond to Miss Colerain , and then said , `` I can not stay a day in Paris , when I have met with such disgrace ; I can not yet return to England , where the news of it will be received , according to the laudable custom of English people -- perhaps of all people -- with the most malignant joy . 
`` No , '' Sir George replied , I do not . 
replied Sir George , with quickness ; whilst a fine bloom dyed his cheek . 
Mr. Lindsay suspected Sir George 's views , and this confirmed his suspicions . 
`` And is it with revenge , '' said he , `` Sir George Paradyne chooses to begin his work of regeneration ? '' 
`` It is certain , '' said Sir George , `` I will not go a yard to avoid them . '' 
There was a fervor , an animation almost to wildness , when he said this . 
He therefore wished only to detain Sir George in France , till he could attend him to Italy ; and therefore proposed to him to visit the South of France , and meet him in one month at Lyons . 
`` I consent , '' said Sir George . 
Guided by this intelligence , Sir George followed the road of his friends as far as Lyons . 
He however had not the least doubt but he should find or hear of them at Turin . 
As he passed over one of the mountains of Dauphin , he saw a handsome and stately chateau . 
Enquiring of a peasant to whom it belonged , he was answered , `` To the Marquis de Valine . '' 
Then , thought Sir George , Harcourt was mistaken . 
Sir George thought it probable the whole party might be now at the chateau . 
He inquired of the peasant if there was company there ? 
Having further learned that the Marquis bore a very good character , Sir George thought their acquaintance in London intitled him to call and pay his compliments at least . 
He drove up to the house , and hearing the Marquis was at home , sent in his name . 
Sir George in some confusion explained the mistake , and asked if there was any other person in France , who bore his title ? 
Almost with a blush , Sir George said `` He had ; that he was accompanied by one who called himself Count Colliano , from Turin ; and that he was easy and polite in his manners . '' 
There , '' continued he , pointing to the declivity of a hill where some cottages were built , -- `` there lives his lady , whom my servants call the Marchioness . 
`` He is married then , '' said Sir George ? 
The Marquis detained Sir George to dinner ; after which he pursued his journey , and arrived without accident at Turin . 
This resolution was taken at Turin , where Sir George was assured the name of Count Colliano was totally unknown ; and taking it for granted , that though he had missed them at Lyons , they had undoubtedly gone for Italy ; and knowing that some splendid capital must be the theatre of their vices , he determined upon seeking them at Rome or Naples . 
Sir George , when he chose to indulge himself with a retrospect , was too clear sighted not to see his own eccentricities , and too candid not to acknowledge them . 
He wrote Mr. Lindsay as follows : I honestly own , dear Lindsay , I left Paris full of revenge . 
Left Mr. Lindsay , whose quickness in the dispatch of business Sir George well knew , should have left Paris before the arrival of this letter , he wrote him another to Lyons ; after which he proceeded upon his most wise and promising expedition . 
He had relied with considerable certainty upon Sir George 's having , from the late transactions and their consequences , seen the folly of giving the reins to passion , and suffering its influence . 
He had flattered himself that his own attentions would have restored him to his usual place in Sir George 's affections ; and that his influence , added to Miss Colerain 's , would not merely have disposed , but impelled him into his old habits of manly virtue . 
Mr. Lindsay had called frequently upon Miss Colerain , and had began almost to adore her ; for , to the fairest body , she joined the fairest mind . 
He had , by Sir George 's desire , pressed her to accept the White House at Combor . 
She declined it in a tone at once mild and peremptory . 
He wished to know if she desired to have it upon any terms ? 
`` Certainly , '' she answered , `` I desire it . 
All would know the house had been Sir George Paradyne 's . 
Over and above this consideration , she continued ; `` I shall not chuse that any local situation shall expose me to his acquaintance . '' 
`` You must be Lady Paradyne ; '' said Mr. Lindsay with eagerness ; `` Sir George Paradyne 's happiness depends upon it ; mine depends upon it ; and , pardon me , I hope your own . '' 
But Sir George is too volatile , too gay , too much the slave of his passions , -LRB- too much indeed , thought Mr. Lindsay -RRB- , for me to indulge myself with the hopes that we shall meet , on the only terms we ever will meet -- his return to the dictates of wisdom , and the practice of virtue . 
`` As Sir George is not here , madam , '' said Mr. Lindsay , `` give me leave to plead in his favour , that your hand would be perhaps the most infallible of all earthly things , for making him what you and I must wish him . '' 
And if you allow me to avow myself your friend , I also will be convinced Sir George deserves you , as well as man can deserve you , before I will advise you to be his . '' 
They took a solemn and affecting farewell ; Mr. Lindsay permitting her to believe he was going to join Sir George ; although upon the most mature consideration and knowledge of his temper , he had determined to go for England . 
Sir George Paradyne had not been many hours at Milan , when , at the same hotel , arrived the honourable Mr. Bardoe , brother to Lord F. His suite consisted of eight servants ; a major domo , his gentleman or valet-dechambre , two French horns and four footmen . 
Paradyne ! 
-- said he to himself -- Paradyne ! 
Then calling for his major domo , he sent his compliments to Sir George Paradyne , requesting the favour of his company to supper . 
Though his honour knew so little of Sir George , Sir George knew pretty much of his honour , and was not sorry to meet in Italy , a man so singular in England . 
He accepted the invitation , and after the ordinary salutations , sat down to supper . 
Sir George bowed . 
`` Nay , '' answered his honour to the bow , `` As you say , it had little to recommend it ; but I dare say it was the best my major domo could procure . '' 
`` Pardon me , '' said Sir George , `` I had not the least fault to find with it , except its too great excellence . '' 
`` Although , '' said Sir George , -- `` you may be indifferent as to the space you measure in a given time , you are not so I suppose , with regard to the places at which you would chuse to stop ? '' 
said Sir George , `` a Swiss village with good fare , would it please you as well as Rome ? '' 
`` Much better , '' replied his honour . 
`` Really , '' said Sir George , `` this is new ; I imagined when a man thought he was pleased , he was so . '' 
`` It must be owned , '' said Sir George , `` this is a most curious speculation . 
asked Sir George ? 
`` But , '' said Sir George , `` if reading were not accompanied by pleasure , if it were labour merely -- its uses are so great , it does not deserve the name of a stupid operation . '' 
`` You will oblige me much , '' said Sir George , `` by giving me your opinion , what are the principal pleasures of life ? '' 
`` My opinion , Sir George Paradyne , '' replied Mr. Bardoe , `` is that there are no pleasures in life at all . 
`` Love -- at least , '' said Sir George . 
asked Sir George . 
The honourable Mr. Bardoe might now have railed in the language of Juvenal for an hour unheard ; he had conjured up a spirit in the mind of Sir George ; which forbade a thought to enter there injurious to the dear sex . 
When I came to the notes which exhibited the honourable Mr. Bardoe , I half suspected Sir George to have been amusing himself with a portrait  la fantaisie . 
Sir George thought thus ; and that , could his intolerable pomp be avoided , such a character might be borne with , nay , even prove amusing for a short time . 
With these reflections Sir George rose at his usual hour , and sent a note to the honourable Mr. Bardoe , requesting the favour of his company to breakfast . 
At eleven the major domo became visible , and informed Sir George , his master took chocolate in bed at twelve and rose at one . 
That he never dined , for Italian hours were abominable . 
That if he travelled , he threw himself into his chaise and went one post . 
If he did not travel , he usually spent the hours in his apartment ; for he could not give himself the trouble to see things , which gave him no pleasure to see . 
Sir George , as host , exerted himself to entertain ; he was this evening more than usually sprightly ; and , aided by the best wines of Milan , drew from the honourable Mr. Bardoe some unequivocal signs of pleasure , and changed a little his air of stately indifference . 
As this was not the hour of reten , Sir George 's answer was a little history of himself for the last year ; in which , as usually happens to people who tell their own tales , some part of his own folly slipt behind the curtain . 
`` So , '' said Sir George , at the conclusion , `` my business is of such a nature , as to require rather more expedition than your mode of travelling will admit of , otherwise I should have been happy to have become your companion de voyage . '' 
There was a something like rudeness in this reply , which gave Sir George some small confusion , and perhaps a little offence . 
`` Do me the favour to believe , '' said Sir George , `` that truth , accompanied with friendliness of intention , can never be disagreeable to me . '' 
There was something in this answer which did not quite please Sir George ; but he was upon honour , not to be offended . 
As he did not reply , Mr. Bardoe said , `` the other is a gentleman . 
In vain Sir George threw certain oblique glances at the indulgence of a luxurious appetite , and supported them by Greek and Roman authority . 
They last they spent of the road , he thanked Sir George for having taken the pains to collect for his use the wise precepts of the ancients , so venerable for long beards , and short faws . 
But if they , said he , or you for them , would condescend to give reasons as well as precepts , I should like to know , since nature has spread papillas all over my tongue , why it should be thought more indecent to derive pleasure from impressions made upon them , than upon any other of the numerous nerves of the human body ? 
-- Sir George admired the facility with which men varnish over their foibles ; he might have admired his own ; but he reflected also that if he could reason away the only feelings his new friend seemed to possess , he would scarce be conscious of his existence . 
By Sir George however they first visit was to the famous gallery of the Cardinal de B -- . 
Sir George caught a little of this divine stame ; felt some very inexpressible impossible feelings , and lamented that he was not master of the connoisseural language . 
`` You were not much entertained to-day , I fear , '' said Sir George , at supper . 
said Sir George . 
`` Pray Sir George inform me -- what idea had you of the sacrifice of Iphigenia , when you were told it was divine , it was grand beyond conception . 
Sir George did not reply . 
`` You will be better entertained at the Opera to-morrow night , I hope , '' said Sir George . 
`` Sir George Paradyne , '' answered Mr. Bardoe with great solemnity , `` I can not now be pleased with any thing that violates nature , or degrades it . 
`` The music , however , '' said Sir George . 
When they separated , Mr. Cameron said to Sir George : -- this is a prodigious genius . 
Every thing that was old in Rome and nine leagues round ; every thing that could elucidate the history of that spirited nation , was pointed out to Sir George ; and in particular , coins and medals ; with which the young baronet stocked himself much to his own edification , and Mr. Cameron 's satisfaction . 
`` My taste in painting , '' replied Sir George , `` is in its infancy . 
For ye must know , Sir George , that auctions are expeensive ; and , when the gudes are na ' celebrated , seldom answer . 
I think for aboot five thoosand poond ye might come in for the hale ; and let me tell you , sic an opportunity does na ' fa ' to the lot of avery gentlemon once in aw his leef . 
`` But , '' said Sir George , `` I can not command so much cash here . '' 
`` Ah , '' -- replied Mr. Cameron , -- `` say nothing aboot that , there is na ' banker in all Rome , that knows his leetters , who wull refuse Sir George Paradyne 's bills to any amoont . '' 
Sir George complied , and the whole business was concluded in the given time with the strictest privacy . 
`` For , '' as Mr. Cameron observed , `` if it was known , Sir George would be plagued oot of his leef by solicitations to see it ; and it wad be weel if difficulties were na ' thrown in the way of its embarkation by men in pooer . '' 
Sir George , whose taste it was to see man in all his attitudes , alighted oft ' to mingle and converse with them . 
For the most part he found them merry , pert , ignorant , and something addicted to obscenity . 
One day Sir George saw before him two female pilgrims , who had joined no band . 
Sir George alighted , and accosted her respectfully in Italian . 
`` Vous parlez de Francais Mademoiselle peutetre , '' said Sir George . 
Sir George was astonished . 
He spoke to her in Latin with increased respect : `` He feared , '' he said , `` he owed the seeing her in her present situation to some distress on her part . '' 
`` May I presume , '' said Sir George , `` to enquire of what country you are ? '' 
`` I have heard of the Count Zaporo , '' said Sir George ; `` he was engaged against the emperor . '' 
`` If , '' said Sir George , `` you impute to mere curiosity , the desire I have to know and to serve you , you do me injustice . '' 
`` You are happy , '' said Sir George , `` you may be in the right to indulge sentiments of caution . 
`` I know not , '' Sir George returned , `` how I can obviate a distrust , which , tho ' it distresses me , I can not but applaud . 
Sir George answered , `` she would much oblige him , '' and wishing her a pleasant pilgrimage , returned to his carriage . 
Sir George , not comprehending exactly the nature of this observation , did not reply to it . 
`` Is it possible , '' said Sir George , `` you can possibly suspect this lady to be an impostor ? '' 
`` A man must take uncommon pains to create it here , '' said Sir George . 
`` No , '' replied his honour , `` it requires no violent effort . 
`` I should sooner , '' said Sir George , `` suspect it there , than on a pilgrimage . '' 
`` I can not , '' said Sir George , `` suspect it in such a form . '' 
`` Nor in any form I believe ; suspicion is no part of the character of Sir George Paradyne , '' replied Mr. Bardoe . 
`` I am glad of it , '' returned Sir George ; `` It is but a mean quality . '' 
Rather than lodge so mean an intimate in my bosom , '' said Sir George , with emphasis , `` I would pay any price . '' 
said Sir George . 
`` Nay , prithee , Paradyne , spare me the big look and frowning brow . 
`` I beg an explanation , '' said Sir George . 
`` If it ever did , '' replied Sir George , `` I soon drove it away . '' 
`` With that , '' said Sir George , `` I can easily dispense . 
asked Sir George . 
It is whispered , said he , in our academy , that he has sold Sir George Paradyne the collection of a rich burgess of Rome , who never was rich , and never had a collection . 
It is true he died , and Mr. Cameron took his house ; which he has made a repository of lumber ; a large quantity of which is packed and sent off to Ostia , as it is said , for Sir George Paradyne . 
`` But pray , '' said Sir George , endeavouring to conceal the agitation into which this narrative had thrown him , `` why did you not extend your kindness so far as to let me know this ? '' 
asked Sir George . 
`` Florence , '' said Sir George , rather sullenly , `` was not much out of our way . '' 
`` It is time , Paradyne , '' replied Mr. Bardoe , `` that you should begin to learn experience , either from yourself or others . 
Rosewaite , whom I consulted on this very head , told me , it was not the first time he had gone to Florence on a similar occasion ; though without stirring out of Rome ; where he knew how to conceal himself more effectually than in any part of Italy . 
When Sir George Paradyne , '' said he , `` takes his departure , which Cameron will know in an hour , he will arrive post from Florence ; and lament that he was too late to bid adieu to his dear friend . '' 
`` And you think , '' said Sir George , restraining his anger with difficulty , `` you think , such fellows ought to go unpunished ? '' 
`` He made me , '' said Sir George , `` a thousand professions of friendship . '' 
`` You take great pains to shew me my folly , '' said Sir George . 
`` For all this , '' said Sir George , `` I do n't think my pretty Transylvanian will prove an impostor . '' 
Sir George asked . 
said Sir George , `` your words usually imply more than they seem . 
To this temple Sir George repaired on the second morning after his arrival , I fear with a heart more devoted to the virgin daughter of Count Zaporo , than to the virgin mother . 
-- However , as any devotion is better than no devotion at all , if Miss Colerain forgives him , I hope my fair readers will do the same . 
This , Sir George had already provided ; and requested permission to attend her thither ; she consented ; thanked him with eyes that seemed to beam celestial fire ; and having taken possession , desired the remainder of that day to finish the duties which brought her thither . 
Sir George saw beauties in her which he had not seen before ; beauties which did not create any revulsion in his sentiments of compassion ; beauties , which piety alone , I suppose can give ; and which is probably the reason why we see them so seldom . 
When Sir George had gazed till it would have been unpolite to have gazed any longer , assuming a peculiar softness of voice , he made her a very pretty latin oration , not quite so long or quite so elegant as Tully might have done ; but the purport was to gain her confidence , to beg permission to serve her ; and to be informed how he might best do it . 
`` You have very much obliged me by this confidence , madam , '' said Sir George ; `` but it would oblige me much more if you would put it in my power to serve you . '' 
`` To you , '' said Sir George , `` this humanity is profitless . '' 
`` Oh , yes , '' said Sir George , `` certainly in jest -- pray how do you intend to go ? '' 
`` Neither of these ways , '' said Sir George , `` can be agreeable to you . '' 
`` I travel , '' said Sir George , `` with an English gentleman , sometimes in the same , sometimes in a separate carriage . 
`` No , '' replied Sir George with another smile , `` we will go in yours . '' 
`` After us then , '' said Sir George , `` at your own time and leisure ; only permit me to charge a servant to procure you those advantages which female travellers scarce have it in their power to promote for themselves . '' 
Sir George then , inviting himself to afternoon coffee , took his leave . 
This little history Sir George had to relate to the honourable Mr. Bardoe . 
He did it circumstantially ; not forgetting as proofs of her truth , the genuine signs of passion and feeling exhibited by the fair relater . 
She wont have money you know , Paradyne ; she told you so . 
`` Compassion and attention , '' replied Sir George . 
asked Sir George . 
`` So suspicious a man as yourself , Bardoe , I never knew , '' said Sir George . 
said Sir George . 
`` Oblige me , Bardoe , '' said Sir George . 
Sir George , in his encomium of Miss Zaporo , had not forgot her fine understanding . 
`` As if , '' answered Sir George , `` you did not in every country see the best understandings embrued with the superstitions they drank in with their mother 's milk . '' 
To render her calamities compleat , when Sir George Paradyne had caused the proper enquiries to be made , it was found that Shugrow had withdrawn the last penny of Miss Zaporo 's fortune from the bank . 
Sir George had too generous , too feeling a heart , not be moved with extreme compassion for so illustrious , and so fair an unfortunate . 
He offered her an asylum in England . 
This noble sentiment did not appear to Sir George in all its lustre . 
He thought it merely a disdain of being under pecuniary obligations to a stranger ; but I believe Miss Zaporo had included in the word disgrace , some ideas which were not born of money . 
In this however , she did Sir George injustice . 
I will not tell my fair readers , that he had been insensible to Miss Zaporo 's beauty ; for I will not lie for any man . 
But , at Venice , Sir George had received a new supply of force against this voluptuous enemy . 
He had directed his letters from England to be addressed there . 
There he first learned that Mrs. Birimport was a widow . 
Her letter breathed the very soul of sisterly affection ; and her wishes for his speedy return were urgent . 
-- `` I learn , '' says she , with a pleasure I can not express , `` that Sir George Paradyne is spoken of at Rome as a gentleman , who does honour to his country . 
I hope then , he has forgot the unworthy motive which carried him from Paris . 
Never again will he quit the pursuits of a gentleman for frivolous pleasures , and voluptuous immoralities . 
His good sense will regulate his inclinations . 
He will deserve the esteem of the wise and good . 
If I never see him more , to hear this , will constitute my greatest happiness . 
The whole was wrote with a cautious and tender delicacy , which kept far removed all appearance that the fair author had in her mind any thing but a sincere and lively friendship . 
`` It is pity , '' said the honourable Mr. Bardoe , in answer to Sir George 's relation of the spirited , and as he thought , extraordinary reply made to his kind offer , by Miss Zaporo ; `` it is a pity , such pride should fall . '' 
-- asked Sir George , -- `` where is the injury done to pride , when unmerited distress accepts an alleviation from the hands of benevolence ? '' 
`` That to make England agreeable , and to be permitted to place her in an independent situation , would give me the greatest pleasure . '' 
Perhaps she had heard her grandmama say young gentlemen were seldom disposed to be so charitable for nothing . 
`` No -- Bardoe , -- no -- '' said Sir George , `` I protest a thought of this kind never seriously entered my head . '' 
`` I shall never forget that she is unfortunate , '' said Sir George ; `` and if I could be base enough to take advantage of her situation , I should abhor myself -- '' `` Yes , '' -- replied Mr. Bardoe , -- `` men are apt to abhor themselves . 
But to prevent the necessity of this terrible abhorrence , marry her Paradyne ; if the son of a simple British knight may presume to raise his thoughts to the daughter of a noble Hun . '' 
`` No , Bardoe , '' said Sir George , smiling , `` my thoughts have not quite taken so presumptuous a flight . '' 
`` Amuse yourself Bardoe , '' said Sir George ; `` my failings are much at your service ; but spare the unfortunate Miss Zaporo . '' 
`` Dear Bardoe , '' said Sir George . 
`` To be candid and explicit with you , '' said Sir George , `` my affections and my honour are both engaged to an English lady . '' 
`` But , '' said Sir George , smiling , `` there are hours when women are so beautiful -- '' `` She is perfectly secure , '' replied Mr. Bardoe ; `` I would not take the trouble of seduction , for ten times the trouble seduction ever yet produced . '' 
Sir george was engaged the following day in a party of pleasure up the Brento which Mr. Bardoe had declined for his usual reason , because it did not present to his imagination any thing pleasing . 
You love Sir George Paradyne . '' 
Any lady might love Sir George Paradyne without a blush . 
But he is engaged . 
Had it been otherwise , you would have engaged him ; for he is warm in your praise . '' 
`` You must have a mean opinion of my delicacy , sir , '' said the lady , `` to suppose this ; Sir George almost a stranger . '' 
If true , that you may recall an affection which honour will not permit Sir George to return ; if not true -- it is without consequence . 
Sir George returned from his excursion the next day , and called upon Miss Zaporo in his way home . 
He was the subject of her thoughts when he arrived , and , though it must be confessed it cost her some sighs , she had almost persuaded herself that Mr. Bardoe 's conjecture was totally groundless ; and that she never entertained sentiments of Sir George , but such as friendship would warrant . 
`` I have had a most extraordinary visit , '' said she to Sir George ; `` it is no breach of confidence to acquaint you with it , for no confidence was enjoined ; and indeed your friend seems to give herself little solicitude about the opinions of others . '' 
Miss Zaporo then related her conversation with Mr. Bardoe ; suppressing only that impertinent insinuation respecting her love for Sir George Paradyne . 
She concluded by asking Sir George 's advice . 
He -- in the most disinterested manner in the world , said , `` that , to be sure , his friend was a man that -- that -- in short , it was a very peculiar case ; and he desired time to consider of it . '' 
Sir George was evidently embarrassed . 
All his affections were Miss Colerain 's . 
He had never once thought of Miss Zaporo as a mistress ; still less as a wife ; he wished her happiness , and would have done much to promote it . 
What then could give him a series of cold , chill , uncomfortable sensations , when she requested his advice . 
Sir George went immediately to Mr. Bardoe ; and the following dialogue passed between them : I have seen Miss Zaporo . 
Never trouble yourself Paradyne . 
After all , Paradyne , if you can find a way to dispose of her more to your liking , be it as you will . 
was Sir George 's reflection , when in the silence of his apartment , he ran over the honourable Mr. Bardoe 's actions since he became acquainted with him . 
All that was necessary to inform her judgment , Sir George communicated to Miss Zaporo , who sighed and said , `` if she could hope to inspire such a man with any degree of tenderness , she might be happy with such a man . '' 
It was frequently canvassed between them , and once , Miss Zaporo said , with a tremulous voice , a softened accent , with tears in her eyes , and a gentle touch with the hand that Sir George held in his , `` You are the author of my felicity , if any is reserved for me ; how I wish I could owe it to you alone . '' 
I will not affirm , for I will not affirm any thing I do not know , that Sir George 's pulse might not be raised by it ten beats a minute ; if so , the more his praise , to call the angel consideration so quick to his aid . 
Certainly it was simple gratitude , and Sir George answered it accordingly . 
The baron , who loved conversation , especially English , had singled out Sir George , and had engaged him in a discourse , chiefly political . 
Sir George 's replies to the baron 's questions were open , candid , and liberal ; and the baron expressed his satisfaction . 
Sir George , in return , wished for information concerning the Emperor Joseph 's temper ; his private and public turn of mind ; his past politics ; his future designs . 
said Sir George . 
`` His mind , however liberal , '' said Sir George , `` was not liberal enough to rise above the usual mode of vengeance . 
Sir George asked . 
`` This is my first information , '' answered Sir George . 
asked Sir George . 
asked Sir George . 
`` And would it not afflict you , '' said Sir George , `` to know that there was in the world , a niece of Baron Zoollern , not unworthy of her birth , destitute , and obliged to strangers for the support of an unhappy existence . '' 
`` There is , '' said Sir George , now in Venice , an accomplished young lady , who calls herself the daughter of Count Zaporo ; and whom a series of misfortunes has reduced to unmerited distress . 
The Baron heard Sir George 's narration , on the next day , with the air of a man who knew the world . 
Sir George 's rank and character indeed placed him above the suspicion of deceiving , but not of being deceived . 
When the stronger emotions had subsided , she gave , at his request , a distinct account of her first acquaintance with Sir George Paradyne and Mr. Bardoe , with all the occurrences in consequence . 
Of Sir George Paradyne , she spoke as of a man of the nicest honour ; and requested the Baron to take his advice respecting the propriety or necessity of compleating her union with Mr. Bardoe . 
To this gentleman Sir George imparted his meeting with Baron Zoollern , and the subsequent conversation . 
Sir George asked . 
said Sir George . 
`` If she seems to desire it then , '' said Sir George , `` you are content to resign her ? '' 
`` Certainly , Paradyne , you know I am devoted to her will '' replied Mr. Bardoe . 
`` It is a very bad compliment you pay her , even by indulging her inclinations , '' said Sir George . 
`` Suppose , '' said Sir George , `` she should determine for the nuptials ? '' 
`` You are the strangest mortal , '' said Sir George . 
`` To a man of my taste , Paradyne , '' Mr. Bardoe replied . 
`` From this animation , '' said Sir George , `` I conclude you consider this separation as a desirable event . '' 
In a gentle progression , and with a superlative delicacy , she told him she was , no doubt , bound in honour -- that is -- if Mr. Bardoe insisted on her fulfilling her engagements ; but , she hoped , when he considered all circumstances -- Miss Zaporo had never before spoken with so much hesitation , and so little consistence ; so Sir George took the liberty to interrupt her , which was a piece of very obliging ill manners . 
He said that circumstances were undoubtedly altered ; that Mr. Bardoe , his friend , must feel his disappointment ; but , as a gentleman , he ought , and Sir George ventured to hope , he would submit his own wishes to that of the lady . 
That he would take the earliest opportunity to converse with his friend on the subject ; and that Miss Zaporo 's honour , her delicacy , and her happiness , should be his leading considerations . 
From the present complexion of this business , my fair readers ill conclude that Sir George did not meet with insuperable difficulties in his negotiation . 
It was Sir George 's opinion that this required Mr. Bardoe to wait upon the lady , and take an affectionate farewell . 
You , Paradyne , '' says he , `` who have no objection to saying agreeable things to ladies , without standing upon the empty forms of veracity , may tell Miss Zaporo that I am so worn down with grief and despair , that I have not sufficient strength to carry me to her ; if I had , I should certainly do myself the pleasure to come and die at her feet . '' 
If any of my fair readers are unreasonable enough to desire more , I have at this instant before me all Sir George 's remarks and observations upon the soil , climate , produce , government , and manners of Italy , and upon the heaths of Germany . 
The late occurrences at Venice had improved the acquaintance of Sir George Paradyne and Mr. Bardoe , into solid friendship . 
Mr. Bardoe , that he might look down upon mankind in the fulness of ease and apathy ; Sir George , that he might begin the duties of a citizen , of a friend , of a man -- for Love is of a Man . 
Here they intended to rest a few days ; for Mr. Bardoe found good accommodations ; and Sir George , abundant novelty of character ; for the baths here bring together strangers of every country in Europe . 
Belonging to the baths at Aix are many pleasant walks , in which Sir George , who loved to rise early , chose to take the fresh air of the morning , and think of -- England , before they began to fill with bathers and water-drinkers . 
One morning he saw reeling before him , two well dressed young fellows arm in arm , singing , or attempting to sing , French catches . 
At the end of the walk they turned full upon him . 
One was a thin emaciated creature , with eyes which seemed starting from their sockets ; his wrinkled skin of a dirty saffron . 
This personage no sooner threw his eyes upon Sir George , than he stopped ; and staring at him a full half minute , advanced with his offered hand , and accosted him thus . 
What was Sir George 's astonishment , when he recognized in this debilitated animal , the features of his late blooming friend , John Lake Fielding , Esq. . 
He viewed him with a mixture of indignation and concern ; then turning off , said , `` I have not the honour to know you , Sir . '' 
`` He has been long altered , '' said Sir George . 
repeated Sir George . 
`` I have to thank you too for the Conciergerie , '' said Sir George . 
Would ` st believe it Paradyne , he was just upon the point of serving me the same trick as Polydore served Castalio . 
asked Sir George . 
`` May such partnerships , '' said Sir George , `` have always such fates . '' 
Eh -- well , Parson Paradyne , -- were not dice made to be thrown ? 
`` I say , '' said Sir George , `` that my anger is changed into pity and contempt . 
`` Farewell then -- and damn your moral pride , Paradyne . 
`` That is too true indeed , '' said Sir George , with a sigh , as he hastened away . 
Sir george saw Mr. Fielding no more . 
He died fifteen days after , and kept it up , as well as he was able , to the last hour . 
our business is with Sir George Paradyne . 
One night at the theatre , entering late , he was shewn into a box where a French officer was engaged in conversation with an English gentleman , a Mr. Brent . 
Sir George 's eyes were directed by those of the ardent officer to a box , in which shone in fulness of brilliancy -- Lady Ann Brixworth . 
She was accompanied by the good natured convenient Mrs. Harcourt ; and the Marquis de Pauliere was no other than Sir George 's old acquaintance , -- the Marquis de Valines , who , my fair readers may possibly remember , was left at London , with Count Colliano , en famille at madam Harcourt 's . 
It was not long before Lady Ann 's eyes and Sir George 's met . 
He bowed . 
`` Very true , '' said Sir George to himself , `` it does not become Lady Ann Brixworth 's dignity to forget injuries ; those she does or those she suffers . 
`` But , '' continued he , in this silent soliloquy , `` it would be cruel to permit her to run headlong on her ruin , without endeavouring at least to open her eyes . 
Returning to his hotel , Sir George communicated to Mr. Bardoe what he had seen , and what had before passed between himself and Lady Ann Brixworth , and asked his advice . 
`` Things are going on very well , '' said his friend , `` if your Quixotism will permit them their course . 
`` But , '' said Sir George , `` one can not for pity 's sake -- '' `` Her pity for you , '' replied Mr. Bardoe , `` sharpened the sword of your friend Captain Harcourt ; now perhaps it will sharpen the stiletto of the honourable Marquis . 
Sir George could not listen to an argument drawn from his own safety ; nor could he withdraw his pity . 
He therefore sent his servant with the following billet : `` Sir George Paradyne 's compliments to Lady Ann Brixworth , requests permission to pay her his respects . '' 
Lady Ann answered thus : `` Lady Ann Brixworth 's compliments to Sir George Paradyne , does not know why he should seek to renew an acquaintance which he formerly abused . 
She permits therefore his politeness to rest in peace . '' 
Sir George wrote back : `` Something more than politeness is my motive for wishing to see Lady Ann Brixworth -- her peace . '' 
Paradyne . 
Sir George answered with the following : I also have something to remember , but which I chuse to forget when Lady Ann 's happiness is at stake . 
-- `` George Paradyne . '' 
I shall however keep it from the Marquis 's knowledge , for Sir George Paradyne 's sake . 
`` Then , '' replied Sir George , it will be incumbent upon myself to inform him of it . 
In two hours you will hear of him -- in the hands of justice . 
`` George Paradyne . '' 
It will not therefore be wondered at , that Sir George 's billets should inspire her with rage ; which she endeavoured to turn into contempt . 
She -- for she knew the world -- and had heard of Sir George 's extravagance at Paris , and of his losses at play -- believed he wanted to renew with Lady Ann , or rather with Lady Ann 's fortune ; and she knew also that if he succeeded , there would be an end of her consequence and of her hopes . 
Sir George 's last billet , however , had struck deep , and as soon as she had satisfied Lady Ann by a thousand assurances that the Marquis must be a man of honour , she went out to satisfy herself . 
`` It was his affection which dictated this request , '' answered Mrs. Harcourt . 
`` My opinion however is , that you should go instantly to Paris ; and write him that you will wait his arrival there . '' 
`` And so be plagued with the impertinence of that Sir George Paradyne , '' replied Mrs. Harcourt . 
Sir George was always esteemed a man of honour . 
Such were the rapid and tumultuous thoughts which now assailed Lady Ann ; and disposed her to think that at any rate , to see and hear Sir George could do no harm . 
But -- after the proud answers she had returned him , how could her high spirit stoop to ask a favour ? 
The struggle over , she honoured Sir George with the following `` If you have sufficient generosity to overlook a lady 's petulance , I wish to charge you with a little commission to Lord Auschamp . 
Amongst all the bad qualities which have from time to time , to my great vexation , disgraced Sir George Paradyne , implacability -- especially to ladies -- thank heaven -- was not found . 
He answered the above , that he would wait upon the lady in an hour . 
This hour he wanted to consult Mr. Bardoe , who , in consequence of the little prejudices he had imbibed against the beautiful sex , gave him the same advice Mrs. Harcourt had given Lady Ann -- not to stay in Brussels an hour ; but it was one of Sir George 's peculiarities , never to take advice he did not relish . 
Lady Ann received Sir George in her dressing-room , in a delicate undress ; and the expression of her pretty face was a soft languor , bordering on dejection . 
There was a time when Sir George would have thought her an interesting figure ; but , to the seducing charms of beauty , all but Miss Colerain 's , he had steeled his heart . 
It is certain that Sir George convinced Lady Ann that the Marquis de Pauliere had been a valet , and was married ; and that Lady Ann shed abundance of tears -- no doubt , of contrition . 
It appears also that Sir George 's humanity was exerted to dry up these tears ; and that he succeeded . 
What I do know is , that for almost a month ensuing , Sir George was generously assiduous in alleviating Lady Ann 's afflictions . 
He introduced her to the best company in Brussels ; made agreeable excursions to the neighbouring cities ; and attended her to all the public amusements . 
It was wholly owing to the inoportune appearance of Sir George at the theatre . 
When this important personage left the Chateau de Valines to set up a marquisate of his own , he left a friend in it , who promised from time to time to make him acquainted with any occurrences which might affect himself ; and was to be rewarded with now and then an English bank note , the value of which is known in every corner of France . 
By this friend , Monsieur Pritteau , for that was our adventurer 's name , was informed of the visit Sir George had paid the old Marquis ; and of his having gained true intelligence relative to himself . 
This information reached him in London , when his affairs with Lady Ann were very promising . 
All of a sudden , a superior marquisate , that of de Pauliere , fell to him by the death of an uncle ; and he was under the absolute necessity of going to it for the regulation of his affairs . 
This marquisare being situate in the Cambresis , it would lay him under inexpressible and eternal obligation if Lady Ann would visit Brussels ; for how could he endure life , a long , long summer , without her reviving presence ? 
And Lady Ann had the good nature to keep him in endurance , by a grant of his request . 
Monsieur Pritteau had often met his friend too , Count Colliano , the Neapolitan barber , this summer at Aix and Spa , and received from him new apprehensions of the terrible Sir George Paradyne . 
Not that I mean to bring any heavy accusation against Sir George . 
His connexion with Lady Ann was innocent , no doubt , perfectly innocent -- but it was too close . 
Now as it happened that in Brussels , the fautors of the black were more numerous than of the white -- I hope Brussels is singular in this -- neither Sir George nor Lady Ann could escape the little malignities . 
Not a month since , Sir George had given one something similar , in the same place , the theatre , to the noble Marquis de Pauliere . 
This was from a female battery , from a pair of azure eyes , whose lambent flames were more awful to Sir George than all the frowning terror that could have been collected upon all the stern brows of all the majesties of Europe and Asia . 
Lady Ann made her appearance this night at her usual hour , the interval betwixt the third and fourth act -- in all the blaze of diamond lustre -- Sir George at her side . 
Sir George to see where his was proper to be paid . 
In one of these boxes -- without a pearl -- or any thing to attract eyes , but simple grace and beauty -- sat Miss Colerain ; whose eyes happened to be thrown upon Sir George the instant his were directed to her . 
I have supposed Sir George struck with an electric shock . 
What else could have forced the blood with such rapidity into his face ; and into the sinuosities of his brain ; so as to throw all the intellectual motions into confusion ? 
I hope my fair readers have compassion ; and sure Sir George was now a proper object of it . 
Opposite to him sat the woman whom he loved -- whom he esteemed -- whom he looked up to as his partner in all the happiness of his future life . 
By his side sat the woman he did not love -- at his heart -- whom he still less esteemed -- and upon whom he rested for no part of his future happiness . 
She had a present claim to his attentions . 
Lady Ann saw his blushing confusion ; observed where his eyes were directed ; and asked if he knew the lady in the opposite box ? 
But Sir George said neither yes or no ; nor any thing very intelligible . 
-- He thought -- he believed -- he did not know -- but he might have seen the lady in England -- and he blushed still deeper when he said this -- for equivocation , with Sir George , was a very unfamiliar practice . 
Lady Ann -- it is -- I am endeavouring to recollect it -- '' stammered out Sir George . 
`` Bless me , '' said Lady Ann , laying her hand upon his , `` for a lady you can not recollect -- she has a vast influence upon your nervous system . '' 
said Sir George . 
`` Yes -- yes -- '' Sir George replied , `` she is a Miss Colerain , a stranger in Brussels . 
Adieu , sir George . '' 
Sir George did not go . 
So he sat the remainder of the entertainment like -- like a man who had affronted himself , and was quarrelling with himself for the injury . 
Poor Sir George ! 
When Sir George had escorted Lady Ann home , she hoped he would stay supper . 
He begged to be excused . 
He was not well . 
She suspected the disease to be Miss Colerain ; and not having lately read that excellent treatise , the government of the tongue , she was extremely liberal of her epithets , many of which were new , at least to Sir George ; and which I would have detailed for the use of my fair readers , if I could have thought any of them were unprovided Not that I would much recommend the use of them , because , as in the present case , they do not always succeed ; but because I would always have the fair sex perform in the best manner possible , whatever they undertake . 
I am sorry I can not exhibit Sir George as a pattern of genteel Socratic patience . 
On the contrary I find him , this night , much too irritable . 
He retorted upon the lady . 
Nay , in the midst of a most eloquent declamation , which she poured profusely out for Sir George 's benefit , he tore himself away ; and without the common ceremonies of politeness , left Lady Ann to the cold consolations of Mrs. Harcourt . 
Not in a humour for society , Sir George went to bed . 
There , instead of sleeping , he amused himself with making philosophical reflections -- Medicines , said to be invented to allay the fever of the mind ; but which , in this instance , failed of their salutary purpose . 
Miss Colerain and Miss Carlill , for she also was there , were accompanied to the theatre by two ladies and two gentleman , one of whom a Mr. Follis , Sir George happened to know . 
To this gentleman 's he went in the morning , as early as propriety would admit ; and from him he learned that Miss Carlill and her friend , whom he knew only by name , had been his guests . 
said Sir George . 
This gave Sir George a disturbance he was scarce able to conceal ; but he had other matters of enquiry . 
`` May I ask , '' said he , `` how the ladies amused themselves here ? '' 
`` Did she see any English families , '' Sir George asked , `` or make enquiry after any ? '' 
`` I knew her in England , '' Sir George said , `` and should have been glad to have made my services acceptable to her . 
`` By that smile , '' said Sir George , `` you should seem to think otherwise . '' 
`` Your name , Sir George , '' Mr. Follis replied , `` was certainly made use of by a tea-drinking party , English principally , at my house , the second evening after the arrival of our guests ; the same evening in which Miss Colerain was taken with her indisposition . '' 
`` If it is not improper to ask , '' said Sir George , `` I should wish to know , if any thing was said to my prejudice ? '' 
said Sir George , with impatience , `` Mr. Follis , I beg you will contradict this report . 
`` If you desire it , Sir George , '' answered Mr. Follis , `` but really , from the general character of Sir Geo . 
Paradyne , I know not how to speak of his addresses reflecting disgrace on any lady . '' 
Sir George blushed at his own fauxpas , which arose from his understanding the full force of the French expression , de bonne fortune , better than Mr. Follis seemed to do . '' 
`` My addresses to Lady Ann then , '' said Sir George , `` was the only idea meant to be conveyed by your tea-drinking party ? '' 
How many stabs for Sir George ! 
Arrived at his hotel , he sought the apartment of his friend ; and having unloaded himself , appealed to him , whether he was not the most unfortunate ? 
`` You are the d -- st comforter , '' said Sir George . 
`` You delight to plague one ; '' Sir George answered ; `` however , I must go off for Ghent directly ; and will either return hither , or wait your coming there , which you choose . '' 
`` No -- the devil -- '' Sir George answered . 
It agreed ill with Sir George 's impatience to wait this hour ; and it prevented his overtaking the ladies upon the road ; and made it improper to visit them that evening . 
In the morning , Sir George sought their lodgings , and sent in his name to Miss Colerain . 
He went away , rather bilious ; but having walked half round the town walls , the bile began to return into its proper channels ; he returned , and sent in his name to Miss Carlill , who received him with a quaker-like civility , which almost froze his blood . 
A man -- except he is a lawyer -- who is conscious of a defect in his cause , will begin his pleadings with a defect of confidence . 
Sir George -- but not with the readiness of a man at his case -- opened the cause by saying , `` How extremely unfortunate he was not to know of the ladies being at Brussels . '' 
At present , Sir George did not chuse to understand this ; so went on to complain of Miss Colerain 's cruelty , and Miss Carlill 's want of friendship , not to honour him with notice of their arrival . 
`` Friend Paradyne , '' said Miss Carlill , `` let us leave inflated language to poets ; it will shorten our labour , to be explicit . 
`` I knew Lady Ann in London , '' replied Sir George ; `` and it would have been the extream of unpoliteness , not to have taken some notice of her , in a foreign country . '' 
`` I do assure you , Miss Carlill , '' said Sir George -- '' `` Let me interrupt thee , '' returned Miss Carlill . 
asked Sir George . 
`` Then say , George Paradyne , to what cause could it be owing , that thou camest not to her ? 
There was in this reproof , a something , besides solemnity and emphasis , that struck Sir George to the heart . 
He had no longer the least inclination to prevaricate ; for he had none to speak . 
He sat down upon a sofa ; his pale face declared the sickness of his mind ; and made Miss Carlill pity -- though she could not excuse him . 
At length , `` I am guilty of folly , '' said he ; `` but of abatement of affection to Miss Colerain , I am not guilty . 
Sir George asked . 
`` May I , '' asked Sir George , `` depend upon your friendship ? '' 
This tone brought on a more confidential discourse , in which Miss Carlill convinced Sir George , that she was his friend , that she gave him the best advice possible , when she advised him to trust to time , his own merit , and Miss Colerain 's affections . 
He only wrote his fair inexorable a note of sad contrition , and took his leave . 
Hitherto , Sir George Paradyne had little cause to impugn this consolatory system ; for few clouds had yet intervened to shade the sunshine of his days . 
For him , nature was all loveliness . 
This approach of man to divinity , -LRB- I dispute not that of women -RRB- seems to me to be rather an amplification ; and with regard to one attribute , that of immutability , rather an error of conception ; for one hour , one single hour , had made Sir George discover this system of optimism to be false . 
When he left Ghent , the earth 's green livery was faded ; the towns were filled with men , who made cheating each other the important business of their lives ; and with men who murdered their fellow creatures scientifically , at the rate of six-pence a-day , English . 
Nay , women -- stop , dear Sir George . 
Sir George began to ask , and to answer -- a gaudy flower , made to please the eye of man -- and plague his heart . 
Thus endeavouring , according , to the laudable custom of man , to throw his own faults and follies upon some other person , or some other thing , Sir George Paradyne arrived from his travels at his house in Grosvenor-square . 
Lady Mary received him with all the tenderness so fond a mother could be supposed to feel ; but Lady Mary 's tender sensations were always under the controul of reason , and never interfered with her dignity . 
In the first hour of his arrival , she gave him a lecture that might serve as a comment upon the past , and a lesson for the future . 
Not that Lady Mary 's censures were directed against the immoralities of gallantries and gaming , for these are ton , and ton admits not of immorality ; but against Sir George 's unskilful application of them . 
The object of the first was a woman of no consequence in life ; with whom he could never arrive at any degree of eclat . 
So Lady Mary might have exclaimed with Mr. Pope -- Notwithstanding the little rebuff Sir George had met with in his travels , he had acquired -- I believe it is a process of nature -- a higher opinion of himself than he seems to have set out with . 
He had acquired also a certain higher degree of irritability , the work of Ghent , I presume , and the union of these was incompatible with the patient endurance with which he had been accustomed to hear Lady Mary 's readings ; he told her therefore , when she gave him leave to speak , `` That he must for the future take the liberty to suppose himself out of the nursery , and that if she had nothing more agreeable to entertain him with , than his own follies , he must beg leave to decline the pleasure of her company . '' 
In the caresses of Mrs. Birimport Sir George found some alleviation for the perverseness of Lady Mary . 
Such was his sister 's gentleness and love , he gave her all his confidence . 
He informed her of Miss Colerain from the first hour he had known her -- Of the birth and progress of his affection ; of his recent disappointment ; of her caprice , so he chose to call it , and its cause . 
But why , Sir George , do you call her conduct at Brussels caprice ? 
All she wants is to have Sir George Paradyne one of the first of men . 
`` So perhaps should I , '' replied Sir George ; `` but she is proud . '' 
`` I wish she were , '' said Sir George , with a sigh . 
`` One would indeed imagine , '' said Sir George , `` many cures might be found for this disorder . 
`` To engage him to visit a lady , '' said Sir George , `` would be no easy task ; I must try to betray him . '' 
In this treachery Sir George succeeded ; but he had no occasion to repeat it . 
Of the consolatory friendship of Mr. Lindsay , Sir George could not now avail himself . 
That gentleman was still in the North ; and indeed had not now any thing in town , except Sir George , which could draw him thither . 
For Miss Fluellen , who , if my fair readers remember , had put his mind into a certain fluctuation , had decided the matter during his absence , her own way . 
So difficult is it for a man to admit the force of truth against himself , that Sir George Paradyne , whose candour we have often seen , could not submit to yield the palm of perfect conduct to Miss Colerain . 
Beauty , he must allow her , and understanding , accomplishment , and temper . 
Sir George found it necessary to say this so often , -- for indeed he thought little but of Miss Colerain -- that he almost arrived at believing it ; and its consequence was a sort of proud and sullen state of the mind , which neither brought tranquillity itself , nor permitted him to take proper measures to obtain it . 
So far indeed he yielded to the tender wishes of his sister , that he was with her often ; but it was evident he was not amused . 
She , and his friend Mr. Bardoe perceived his portion of felicity grow less and less . 
Sir George lived , or rather lodged , in Grosvenor-square ; for his meals , such as they were , he usually took at Mrs. Birimport 's . 
Hitherto Lady Mary had had the goodness never to intrude upon Sir George in his library ; but having heard one evening , something of Miss Colerain , and of Sir George being ill and in love ; the next morning she sought and found him there . 
Mrs. Birimport was already with Sir George , intending at the usual hour to proceed to her mother 's apartments . 
They say you are in a waste , Sir George . '' 
`` If such a thing should happen , Sir George , '' said she , raising her head , '' -- but God forbid -- but if it should -- what comes of the family estates ? '' 
`` They pass to my sister , '' Sir George answered . 
`` If money , '' Sir George replied , `` will comfort you for my death , you shall not want comfort . '' 
`` You are pleased to say so , madam , '' Sir George replied ; `` but -- '' `` But what ? '' 
`` I have nothing to reproach you for , madam , on the head of dignity ; '' said Sir George . 
And could you , Sir George -- could you think of staining the honour of your ancient house -- noble on the maternal side -- with such a wife ? 
When she made a pause , Sir George answered thus : `` It is long since that I have perceived to my sorrow , that I have not -- that I never had a mother . 
Saying thus , Sir George hastily withdrew . 
Neither this speech of Sir George , nor the melancholy tone with which it was spoken , moved Lady Mary , except to redoubled rage . 
There she found Sir George , who was engaged in writing letters . 
When he had finished , he said , `` My dear Emilia , I am come to the resolution of leaving London this day . 
At this instant Mr. Bardoe was announced ; and to him was related the occurrences of the morning ; closing with Sir George 's intention to leave the town . 
He meditated a while , and then opened with this abrupt compliment to Sir George : `` Paradyne -- you are a fool . '' 
`` I know that , '' replied Sir George , with a smile . 
Sir George looked grave . 
`` I seek not , '' says Sir George , `` to obtain Miss Colerain . '' 
`` I can not take that trouble , '' returned Sir George . 
`` And , '' Sir George asked , `` may a woman be such an object ? '' 
`` These things , '' said Sir George , `` were once all the objects nearly of nature and of art . 
For howsoever Sir George may endeavour to conceal it from himself , my humble opinion is , he was in love ; and as love is so apt to overset poor reason , we must on that account pardon him his terrible opinions -- if we can . 
It was at Dover this last letter was wrote ; for Sir George had rambled , not for any pleasure he found in rambling , but , when a man is not easy in any place , he is usually disposed to change it . 
I only find it recorded that Sir George unthought his former thinkings ; and paid a slumbering tribute to the dignity of man , and the charms of woman . 
If Lady Ann Brixworth was born to be the joy and comfort of any man 's life , it was not that of Sir George Paradyne 's . 
He rose from his hour 's repose , and having dined , took a walk to the pier . 
He had done so two or three times before -- I know not why -- unless one takes a pleasure of sympathy with those who have escaped the dangers of the sea , or who return to their native country , after the exile perhaps of years . 
Sir George had heard indeed , that Miss Colerain designed to pass the winter in Paris , and the summer in England ; but besides that it was now nothing -- nothing at all to him , where she chose to live , or what she chose to do . 
Still less could it be supposed that Lady Ann Brixworth was in his imagination , when he stood and overlooked the disembarkations of the female cargoes of the packets . 
of whom he never thought , when his thoughts were under his own governance ; so very little of pleasure was attached to her remembrance . 
-- But the very first lady who was put on shore to day was Lady Ann -- so cloaked indeed , and muffled , that he did not know her , till she accosted him by the name of George Paradyne . 
Sir George seemed scarcely to understand the common forms of politeness ; and indeed acquitted himself so little to Lady Ann 's satisfaction , that in a half whisper she said , `` She was sorry to find she was so perfectly odious to him . '' 
Something like this happened now ; for Sir George began to manifest his surprise that Lady Ann should take so absurd a fancy into her head . 
`` Certainly , '' Sir George answered . 
So offering his arm , which Lady Ann accepted , they led the way to the hotel , followed by Mrs. Harcourt , and other male and female passengers . 
Sir George could not refuse Lady Ann 's invitation to tea ; and Mrs. Harcourt retiring to adjust her dress , they had a tete-a-tete together , and talked of past things , no doubt , as friends meeting after absence usually do . 
What I find particular on this occasion , is a remark that fell from this lady , that she was apprehensive her reputation might suffer by the public notice Sir George took of her in Brussels . 
That neither her birth nor fortune were unworthy of him ; and that he ought , as a man of honour , to prevent the world 's malignity . '' 
Sir George replied with great coolness , `` That it was not worth while to endeavour to prevent that which no human means could prevent . 
This subject lasted half an hour at least , and the subject not seeming to draw near a conclusion , Sir George thought himself obliged to say , -- `` That he had never , at any time spoke to her the language of a man who wished or intended to marry ; consequently she had no claim of that nature upon him . '' 
If Sir George should meet with a few more Colliano 's , those might be useful ones . 
But let him take care . 
He was not yet sure of his inestimable prize . 
Did he never hear of a Monsieur Larogne ? 
Let him not be too secure . 
He might still sit down and pine for his bird . '' 
Sir George , with a patience almost subdued , had risen to walk about . 
-- The room looked into the court yard where stood a chaise , and Sir George had a glimpse of a lady who had just stept in , and saw another follow her -- which drew from him an involuntary exclamation -- By heaven ! 
But before he could reach the court yard , the chaise had driven off . 
Lady Ann , who saw this , and rejoiced in Sir George 's disappointment , was almost restored to good humour by the accident . 
`` Oh , '' said she , on Sir George 's return , `` I could have informed you of the prim quaker and her fair friend , if I had known your wants . 
Sir George Paradyne , irritated beyond measure , at this new and malevolent turn , said , `` I have nothing more to say to Lady Ann Brixworth , but to bid her adieu for ever -- . '' 
Sir George 's enquiries for what place the ladies had taken the chaise were unsuccessful ; the order having been given to the driver only . 
What passed in sleep , or during the darkness of the night , I can not tell ; but in the morning Sir George seemed to have been seized with a very peculiar hypochondriacism . 
He cared no more for man or for woman , the world and all its vanities . 
He cared no more for Miss Colerain . 
And in order to exclude her from his remembrance , he determined to shut himself up in some obscure retreat , and forget that world whose follies he could no longer endure . 
Nor was he at a loss for the choice of a place , when Combor White House presented itself to his imagination . 
Mr. Carter , Sir George 's gentleman , also increased the alarm . 
As I knew Miss Colerain was near Bourdeaux , and did not know but Sir George might have obtained the same intelligence , I determined for France . 
After the first salutations , `` Pray , '' says he , `` how does Sir George Paradyne do to-day ? 
I was quite sorry to see him in such a way ; a fine healthy young man as he was two years since . '' 
I am seeking Sir George , and thank you for your intelligence . 
May I inquire what was the nature of the business for which he wanted you ? '' 
`` To make his will . 
`` Dear Sir George ! '' 
`` You are cruel , Sir George ; cruel to all your friends . '' 
Why , Sir George , was your retreat here to be a secret ? '' 
Sir George smiled , and said , `` We shall see . '' 
Opposite Sir George hung the picture of Miss Colerain , by Gainsborough . 
The room was decorated with a variety of pretty works done by herself , and on a marble slab stood those toys you have heard of , bought by Sir George at Birmingham . 
From this , and subsequent conversations , it is become very apparent that the governing , though secret , power of Sir George 's mind is still love ; and that it is Miss Colerain alone who can cure him of self contempt . 
My fair readers have seen , that once , the social affections were all alive in Sir George Paradyne . 
Neither his sister nor his friends had cordial welcomes -- for they interrupted him in the enjoyment of `` sweet melancholy , '' of which poets and poetesses are so fond . 
Mr. Lindsay talked to Sir George of Cato and Brutus , and of the admirable force of mind which could say to love , `` So far shalt thou go and no farther . '' 
But Sir George could not be brought to enter into their lofty ideas ; and for love -- except seraphic love -- he detested the name . 
To have been in harmony with Sir George 's train of ideas , she should have talked of her as a spirit of light , presiding over a choir of angels , tuning their golden harps . 
One day , Mrs. Birimport missed the picture of Miss Colerain ; and that day Sir George left his apartment some hours later than usual . 
So he continued to do ; and Mr. Lindsay perceiving they were not taking the proper means to produce the end proposed , wished to spare himself the melancholy sight of the human mind in ruins , and took his leave . 
For what author , not disordered in intellect , and at liberty to chuse his ways and means , would , in the reign of George the third , feign a young English gentleman of birth and affluence , in love -- that is to say -- in love with one ; and that to so strange a degree as to impair health ; nay -- to become enamoured of death . 
A month had now passed , without any visible deterioration of Sir George 's health . 
When he spoke , it was with his usual gentleness ; but he seldom spoke , and melancholy gained upon him , till she seemed to have `` marked him for her own . '' 
Instead however of keeping his appartment , his inclination had taken another turn . 
The botanic garden , so rich in poetic beauty , seemed by its use to have been the favourite of Miss Colerain ; and there were in it some tales so melancholy sweet , so attuned to Sir George 's present feelings , that it could not fail to become his also . 
In this elegant repository , Sir George had also found a large collection of drawings , the flowers and plants of the garden , coloured according to nature , in which amusement Miss Colerain delighted much ; a few of these were hung up in a sort of filigree frame . 
Had Sir George 's mind been in full vigour , all this would have made him a botanist ; as it was , it only disposed him to the feminine work of framing the drawing , according to the patterns Miss Colerain had left ; of choosing for each some tender quotations of four or six lines each ; and of arranging them round Miss Colerain 's picture , which he had previously caused to be conveyed from his own apartment . 
In all this , Fidel was Sir George 's agent ; and procured for him every thing his humorous imagination required . 
It was only to Fidel Sir George trusted the key of his repository , for the purpose of cleaning it , now become a source of not unpleasing , though melancholy enjoyment . 
Sir George , though he did not relish conversation , was not insensible to his sister 's departure ; and scarce found the uninterrupted enjoyment of his solitary pleasure , a recompence for her loss . 
The sole inhabitants of the house now , were Sir George , his old woman , and Mr. Benjamin Fidel , whose diligence and attention had often attracted his master 's notice ; and whose woeful countenance witnessed his attachment . 
When Sir George was disposed to speak , he asked him questions , and wondered at the good sense of his answers . 
The slave trade was at this time becoming a popular topic , Finding he was born in Africa , Sir George asked him of his captivity , and by what means it had been produced . 
He answered -- that he was a native of Benin , and that his country name was Benihango . 
When he was twelve years old he accompanied his father down to the coast . 
An English vessel was there , and his father having purchased all his gold dust away , found himself still wanting . 
It was not that he did not love his Benihango , but he had six children at home , and never a Birmingham musket . 
So for this grand acquisition , and a small quantity of powder and shot , his father delivered him to the care of a Liverpool master , who had a very good voyage to Jamaica , the heat and stench killing only twenty-seven , out of two hundred and three . 
Sir George asked . 
said Sir George . 
`` It oppress you , Sir George , do it not ? '' 
said Sir George . 
`` Speak freely , '' said Sir George . 
asked Sir George . 
`` It will not displease me for that , '' said Sir George ; `` pray tell it me . '' 
Yes , Sir George , he did ravish her , repeated Fidel , stalking along the room . 
Sir George , at this part of the recital rose from his seat , and paced the room as Fidel had done before , who now was too much overcome to proceed , and had ran off to his chamber to indulge himself in private . 
That night , Sir George would not let him proceed in his tale . 
The next morning at his accustomed hour , Sir George went to the pavilion . 
There , on a table , in a pretty female hand , like Miss Colerain 's , but not so like as to be able to pronounce it her 's , lay a paper , on which was wrote : `` Man , like the sun , may give a shining presage of his dawn -- may pass his morn of life bright in action , warm in benevolence -- may suffer clouds to intervene , and shade his brilliance -- may set in feebleness and mist -- may disappoint and grieve the world . '' 
It is not very easy to describe any of the feelings of man ; to convey an adequate idea of that complicated tribe that now assailed Sir George -- impossible . 
`` It is only to yourself , '' said Sir George , `` I have ever intrusted the key . '' 
So thought Sir George , without perceiving that the stimulus was found so far at least as to keep him in great mental agitation . 
It was not till the second evening , he became sufficiently composed to wish to hear the end of Fidel 's `` Dis shameful ting , '' resumed Fidel , `` was done upon a day when de governor gave public dinner ; to which Masser Benfield did go . 
So ended the tale of Benihango ; on which Sir George made a very extraordinary comment . 
When first the thought of dying struck his imagination , he had caused his will to be made and authenticated . 
This he carried with him ; and this night before he slept , he added a codicil , bequeathing Fidel fifty pounds a year for life . 
But Sir George 's mind , however occupied by the past afflictions of Mr. Fidel , was still more so , by the note , courtesy itself would scarce call it a billet-doux , found on his table . 
It required a greater degree of self-complaisance than Sir George at present possessed , to justify his mode of life . 
Nothing could be more true , than that his sun was clouded . 
Agitated with this unpleasing conclusion , he rose earlier than usual on the morning of the first of May ; and with a mind tuned to melancholy , took the walk leading to his loved pavilion . 
He supposed Fidel there . 
Entering , he saw , not Fidel , but two ladies , one of whom was dissolved in tears ; the other hanging over her with all the marks of love and pity . 
Sir George approached the sitting fair one ; and exclaimed -- `` Good heavens ! 
She rose , looked up at his pale face , where the roses of health no longer bloomed , and the tears flowed still more copiously from her lovely eyes . 
She curtsied , and said , `` I am sorry , Sir George , I am very sorry to see you in so indifferent a state of health . '' 
`` Health , '' Sir George answered , looking tenderly at her , `` health , Miss Colerain , depends upon happiness . 
`` Why , Sir George , should you doubt it ? '' 
shewing the note he had found . 
`` Yes , brother , '' replied the other lady , whom Sir George had not yet noticed , `` it was Miss Colerain . '' 
`` My dear Sister , '' said Sir George , `` whence do you come ? '' 
asked Sir George , tenderly . 
`` For that , my Emily , '' Sir George replied , `` I have myself been a mendicant in vain ; and she who denied it me , seems now to wish to deprive me of every substitute . '' 
`` I grieve , '' said Miss Colerain ; `` to see this feminine amusement , called a substitute for happiness , by Sir George Paradyne . '' 
`` I grieve every body , '' said Sir George ; `` I have grieved my sister , and my friends , and now I grieve you . 
Sir George replied ; `` anger is a strange sensation to feel for Miss Colerain . '' 
`` I do n't know , '' Sir George replied ; `` perhaps I might , when your severe delicacy exposed me to my own fatal guidance , and all the errors of youth . 
`` You have enumerated my mistakes , Sir George , '' said Miss Colerain . 
`` Yes , all -- all -- '' said Sir George , `` all but folly , but madness . 
But , '' continued he , bending one knee to the ground , and taking a passive hand -- I shall expiate it with my life . 
`` Ah , '' said she , `` I have not yet learned to associate the ideas of death and Sir George Paradyne . 
I hope he will live to oblige me . '' 
`` I would certainly die to oblige you , '' Sir George replied ; `` but to live ! 
`` Will you have the goodness to rise , Sir George ? '' 
`` No -- it is pleasure itself -- '' answered Sir George . 
`` But to be followed by tenfold torment -- if -- '' he stopped . 
`` If , '' said Mrs. Birimport , `` she has taken the trouble to come from France , to tell you , you must die -- if you have , Miss Colerain , pass the sentence now . 
Sir George is prepared to die in ecstasy at your feet . '' 
said Sir George . 
Take her , Sir George ; I give her to you -- since she will not give herself . '' 
said Sir George again . 
`` And so , Sir George , '' said his sister , `` you will not accept her from my hands ? '' 
`` I scarce dare accept her from her own ; '' Sir George replied . 
`` Yes -- hope -- '' answered Mrs. Birimport , `` hope , Sir George , if you prefer expectation to possession . '' 
said Sir George . 
`` I confess , Sir George , '' said Miss Colerain , `` my first wish is , that you should be well and happy . '' 
`` How much of my lively sister 's vivacity , Cornelia , '' said Sir George , `` may I take for truth ? '' 
Sir George could now neither attend to Miss Colerain 's blushes , nor Mrs. Birimport 's comments . 
But he could kiss their hands with no inconsiderable transport ; after which , finding he wanted speech and fresh air , he ran into the garden to seek them . 
Mr. Bardoe allowed the probability that Miss Colerain was in possession of the specific medicine for Sir George ; but doubted whether she or any woman had the quantum sufficit of liberality and strength of mind , to rise above the great prejudices of pride , and the small ones of decorum , which threw themselves in the way in this case . 
At present let us return to Sir George . '' 
Mr. Bardoe , and Mr. Lindsay , each contended for the honour of effecting this miracle , of converting a woman , into a being of reason ; but the preference was given to Mr. Lindsay , because his adventure with Miss Robarts , in France , had placed him in the most friendly intimacy with Miss Colerain ; with whom he corresponded occasionally ; though , after the adventure at Brussels , she forbid him to make Sir George Paradyne the subject . 
Many a sigh came from the bosom of Miss Colerain ; many a drop of pearly fluid from her lovely eyes , when she heard the whole melancholy tale of Sir George . 
Mrs. Birimport took up her abode at Miss Carlill 's ; and having , by the assistance of Sir George 's old housekeeper , contrived to get an impression of the key of the pavilion , in order not to expose poor Fidel to the necessity of denying the truth to his master , began and pursued their operations as we have related in the preceding chapter . 
This son was at Nice , endeavouring to renovate his worn out constitution ; and as his brother had died the spring before , Sir George and Lady Paradyne , may one day be transformed into an Earl and Countess ; a most agreeable metamorphosis ; and likely to be relished in England , when titles shall be nick-names only in the rest of Europe . 
Lady Mary Paradyne was no sooner informed by the dutiful Sir George , of his approaching nuptials , than she conceived her own misfortunes , and the lustre of her house had both reached their acm . 
At length she submitted to receive a visit , and has even been heard to say -- that there was something in Lady George Paradyne that was pretty well all things considered . 
She can not make so favourable a judgment of Sir George and Mrs. Birimport , now Mrs. Bardoe ; however , she does not fatigue herself with the violence of her complaints ; she only gives vent occasionally ; and the exercise seems useful . 
That these are essential matters I know ; and am sorry they must be waited for , till the second edition ; for Sir George and his lady , with Mr. and Mrs. Bardoe , and Mr. and Mrs. Lindsay , are now at Paris ; whither they went to see if the nation of Francks , so merry when governed by folly , are not grown grave , since wisdom has had a share in the administration . 
