Ask Sir Jasper Goldthorpe . 
He was the richest man on ` Change . 
Sir Jasper Goldthorpe was deemed to be richer than all these , for he was alone on his throne of gold . 
He had no partners . 
Mammon would not even let one of his sons come into the firm . 
Sir Jasper was the Co. -- himself and company . 
He had no fears that the Antwerp house would warn him against undue speculations ; that the Leghorn branch would remonstrate if he drew too largely on them , or the Frankfort firm give cause for remonstrance by drawing too heavily on him . 
He stood alone . 
His agents and correspondents were his obedient and trembling slaves , and he the most generous but the most exacting of taskmasters . 
There was no trifling with Sir Jasper Goldthorpe . 
Now and then some gorged Hebrew capitalist of Paris or Madrid would strive to shoulder his way past him with bank-notes and bonds ; but Sir Jasper Goldthorpe , with icy English politeness , would drop a couple of heavy golden ingots on the capitalist 's toes , and force him to retreat , howling and discomfited . 
Once or twice some lucky speculator in Australian wool , some enriched digger , some auriferous bubble-monger of railway-shares and mining-schemes , would make a dead set at Sir Jasper 's supremacy , -- would strive to outvie him by taking a bigger house , giving grander parties , purchasing more acres of parkland , subscribing to more charities and packs of hounds . 
Then Sir Jasper would smile his frigid smile , step down to a little shooting-box , if it were in autumn , or to the sea-side if in spring ; pop away at the pheasants , or stroll about in a jacket and a slouched hat , as though he were some miserable wretch of eight hundred pounds a year ; and then , coming quietly back to town , would manage somehow to crush his rivals . 
He always crushed them . 
Alone , triumphant , and immovable , without a wrinkle in his brow or a crease in his waistcoat , would stand Sir Jasper Goldthorpe . 
At last people gave up contending with him , and were content to agree that he was a wonderful man . 
His beginnings had been small enough . 
It was rumoured that his father was but a small tradesman in a country town . 
There were found even those bold enough to whisper , `` Bankrupt in ` twenty-five ; did n't pay twopence in the pound , '' -- alluding to the paternal Goldthorpe . 
Sir Jasper always spoke of his sire as `` my excellent and worthy father ; '' and you may be sure that no word of detraction against his progenitor was ever audible in his presence , or within a good distance thereof . 
He had himself first made an appearance in public with a company which certainly did not succeed after he left it , but which realised tremendous profits while he was on the direction . 
He had gone largely into government contracts , and had been the special object of several commissions of inquiry ; but it always turned out that it was somebody else , and not he , who was to be blamed for shoes that would n't go on , and muskets that would n't go off ; and commissioners , witnesses , and accountants were all loud in their praises of Mr. Goldthorpe 's -- he was Mr. Goldthorpe then -- public spirit and unimpeachable integrity . 
The Chancellor of the Exchequer was generally thought to be sure of another six months ' tenure of office if he could only be seen walking with Sir Jasper Goldthorpe on the riverterrace . 
He was usually lucky enough to get excused from committees ; it was known how rich a man he was , and how much he had to do . 
It was then , so the gossips said , that Sir Jasper Goldthorpe made his famous coup of purchasing , at about a third of their value , the diamonds and other regalia of the distressed and fugitive sovereigns of Europe . 
When confidence was restored , and the reign of legitimacy recommenced , diamonds were at a premium again , and Sir Jasper Goldthorpe realised . 
He had done with all his mercantile speculations now , -- had no longer large ventures on the sea , or trains of obsequious shipping and colonial brokers at his heels . 
He dealt in Money , and money alone . 
He turned money over , and in the summersault it made itself into more money . 
He crumpled a piece of paper and it distilled drops of gold into his coffers . 
The more bankrupt was a European state , or a South-American republic , the richer became Sir Jasper Goldthorpe . 
He purchased railways , but he did not carry them out . 
He farmed mines and revenues , but he neither worked nor collected them . 
They remained with him but a few days ; but every thing of which he took hold was a golden orange , and he managed to squeeze it so long as he held it . 
In the year 1849 Sir Jasper Goldthorpe was just fifty years of age . 
As Christmas came round , he was good enough to remember , on returning thanks for the proposal of his health at a grand feast at Battleaxe-makers ' Hall , that he was born on the twenty-seventh of December , Anno Domini seventeen hundred and ninety-nine . 
He said `` Anno Domini ; '' for though his words were few , they were always sonorous , and had a rich metallic sound . 
His admirers declared that they were worth their weight in gold . 
The cheers at the announcement of the date of his nativity were deafening . 
About Christmas time 1849 , then , Sir Jasper Goldthorpe , Bart. , M. P. , F. R. S. -LRB- he had contributed a wonderful paper on the Greek drachma to the transactions of the Royal Society , and was dignified moreover with many more initials than I care to enumerate -RRB- , was a hale fresh-coloured gentleman , slightly corpulent , and with a very slight stoop in his shoulders , but looking on the whole a model of health and strength . 
`` Tow head '' Sir Jasper had been opprobriously nicknamed by political opponents at election time . 
He was quite cleanly shaven and very fresh-coloured . 
His eyes were blue-gray , and mirrors of placidity -- that is , when you could get him to look at you ; for Sir Jasper was short-sighted . 
He read with a double eye-glass , and when he was not reading usually bent his eyes downwards . 
He was a tall man , and wore a white hat in winter . 
His hands were very fat , smooth , and dimpled , his fingers very short and thick at the tips . 
Imagine the form I have described so attired , and you will have a definite notion of Sir Jasper Goldthorpe . 
He came down to the Office every morning with unvarying punctuality -LRB- save during the vacations he methodically allowed himself -RRB- at ten o'clock . 
He always came down in his carriage -- a double-bodied , high-hung , two-hundred-guinea-pair-of-horses one . 
He would as soon have thought of riding in a brougham at the east end as of paying nineteen shillings in the pound . 
At his villas and palaces he had plenty of broughams , and phaetons , and curricles , and things ; and in the country he did not disdain to ride on a shaggy little pony , or to drive a tiny wicker-work carriage , like a clothes-basket upon wheels ; but between Temple Bar and Eastcheap the carriage was part of his state and the handmaiden to his riches . 
But though he would not ride eastward in a brougham , it was touching to mark the humility with which this very rich man would hire a common , lowly , four-wheeled cab for conveyance to public meetings or railway-stations . 
He knew that he , being so rich , would be waited for ; and yet Sir Jasper Goldthorpe was proverbial for punctuality , and in most cases , where any matters of business were concerned , contrived to be a little beforehand with those he had transactions with . 
They all had the most intense respect for Sir Jasper Goldthorpe and Sir Jasper Goldthorpe 's carriage ; and their little black-eyed chaffering children sometimes penetrated into Beryl Court , and peered admiringly at the Palace of Gold erected there . 
The windows were all plate-glass , the wire-gauze blinds had golden beadings ; over the door was sculptured the Goldthorpe family cognizance , -- three martlets on a field or ; the bloody hand of its proper blazon ; motto , Ex sudore , aurum , the whole emblazoned on a richly-framed marble escutcheon . 
The architecture of Beryl Court , exteriorly , was entirely Italian Renaissance , and had been commanded by Sir Jasper , -- in a letter of four lines to his architect , -- just after he achieved his baronetcy . 
But his decorative fancy was an odd one ; for , inside , the house was at least a hundred and fifty years old . 
Perhaps it was for that reason that Sir Jasper Goldthorpe repudiated , while in the City , the vehicles just spoken of . 
A young man 's fortune was thought to be made if he could only be got into Goldthorpe 's house , although there was not the remotest chance of his ever obtaining a partnership therein ; and parents and guardians used to intrigue for years to obtain junior clerk-ships for their sons and wards , just as they would intrigue for Indian cadetships or commissions in the Guards . 
No actual cash was ever seen ; but nobody had the least doubt that the one great subject of work at Goldthorpe 's was Money . 
Sir Jasper 's room was the plainest in the entire establishment . 
Add to these the princely domain of Goldthorpe in Surrey , with its deer-park , and its home-park , its Vitruvian palazzo , its conservatories , graperies , pineries , kennels , model-dairies , lawns , terraces , mazes , grottoes and temples : -- its stables and coach-houses its , pavilions and lodges . 
Surely it needs no more to convince you that Sir Jasper Goldthorpe was a power in the state and a Prince in the land . 
Sir Jasper Goldthorpe had been her guardian . 
Her holidays had been spent in his family . 
After she came of age , -- for she was now twenty-two , -- his house became her home . 
My son Hugh will be back to-night , and you know what he 's coming for . 
He 's a captain in the army . 
He 's coming back , not alone to see his father and mother and brothers , but he 's coming home to marry you , Magdalen Hill , which he fell in love with you five years back , when he was home on leave ; and I know , for all your face that frightens me , that you love him , and that he loves you ; and though I am but a poor woman which was ill brought up , and was n't always so , I love my son and daughter which is to be , and I 've had seven children , all boys . '' 
I 'm sure that the very potato-peelings seemed to turn to gold in Goldy 's hands ; and you 're going to marry Hugh , and I 'm the happy mother of seven children . '' 
Yes ; the Goldthorpe quiver was furnished with that number of arrows . 
First came Hugh Jasper Goldthorpe . 
His first name from a godfather , Mr. Hugh Desborough , who during Sir Jasper 's early career had been intimately connected with him in friendship and in business . 
Hugh was twenty-six years of age . 
He was but a captain in a regiment of native infantry in the service of the East India Company ; but he had held important staff appointments , had been resident and political agent at the court of more than one native prince , and had obtained great renown during the last campaign against the Sikhs as the commander of that famous corps of indigenous troopers , the Daglishwallah Irregular Cavalry . 
George , the fifth son , aged nineteen , was an undergraduate at Oxford , and was destined for the bar ; his mother having the firmest persuasion that Sir Jasper Goldthorpe had only to say the word to have her George made Lord-Chancellor the moment after he had donned his wig and gown . 
Charles , the sixth son , was scarcely eighteen , but he was already installed in a clerkship in the Foreign Office ; and Sir Jasper 's great friend , the Earl of Mount Olympus , had promised Charles the very first foreign attachéship -- at a nice court where there was plenty of good society and a healthy climate -- that should become available . 
At the grand Christmas party given in Onyx Square on the twenty-seventh of December , in honour of the double event , -- the joyful season and the birthday of Sir Jasper Goldthorpe , -- five of the seven . 
There were members of parliament , barristers , doctors , wealthy solicitors , proctors from Doctors ' Commons , wild slips of college-lads , friends of Willy Goldthorpe , Eton boys , young ladies from boarding-school , and a sprinkling even of artists and literary men ; for Sir Jasper Goldthorpe liked to be well with all classes , and by his bounty golden rays were cast into the humblest homes . 
But a certain gloom and anxiety had stolen in among the gaiety and rioting , and sat on the conntenances of three persons -- Sir Jasper Goldthorpe , his wife , and Magdalen Hill . 
No Hugh Goldthorpe had made his appearance . 
Midnight came , and no Hugh . 
The time when his arrival might have been expected was long past . 
Had he missed a train from Marseilles ? 
Had he been detained in Paris ? 
Had he fallen ill on the road ? 
His brothers did not know that his coming was so imminently looked for . 
It was to be a surprise to all -- to his relatives as to his friends . 
One , two o'clock in the morning , and no Hugh Goldthorpe . 
The gay company broke up and went home to talk of the delightful evening they had spent , the boundless riches of Sir Jasper , the charming eccentricity -- had she been poor they would have called it vulgarity -- of Lady Goldthorpe . 
The Sons of Mammon bade their parents good night , and retired to their rooms -- all save the subaltern of hussars , whose cabriolet was waiting for him , and who drove down gaily to his club to spend the evening . 
Three persons were left in the stately crimson drawing-room in Onyx Square : Sir Jasper , evidently perturbed ; Lady Goldthorpe , who made no secret of her approaching intention of seeking consolation in a flood of tears ; and Magdalen Hill , with her pale face . 
Captain Hugh Goldthorpe , M. N. I. , ex-commander of the Daglishwallah Irregulars , ex-Resident at the Court of Duffa Khan Sahib , Rajah of Jowlapore , is weary of Indian service . 
Six feet two in his stockings stands Hugh Goldthorpe , strongest and coolest sabreur of his corps , skilful in diplomacy , wise in durbar . 
He is of the stuff of which great soldiers and statesmen are made ; but his father is too rich , and his allowances have been too handsome , for him to continue seeking fresh advancement in either career . 
He has had enough of glory , both in soldiering and negotiation , and is only desirous of rest , and the enjoyment of the wealth that is to be , or is already his , and the wife long since promised to him . 
His desires are modest , you see . 
The affianced one -- the Beloved One -- is a stately lady , and a haughty one , withal ; but she has told him that she loves him with her whole heart and soul , and that is enough for Captain Hugh . 
So the hero of many intricate negotiations with crafty Asiatics , and of fifty hand-to-hand combats with fierce Sikhs and Afghans , tranquilly puffs his cheroot in the expectation of a speedy return to England , home , and beauty . 
He has engaged a saloon berth in the Peninsula and Oriental Company 's ship Isis , and , by the last days of December , he gaily augurs that he will be in London . 
He feels happier than many passengers on board , albeit they may be nearly as rich as he , can feel ; for he has been fortunate enough to bring his liver away with him . 
He is broad of chest and sturdy of limb , with handsome straight-cut features , a mobile yet determined mouth , shaded with a thick Saxon moustache , and a long silken beard curling down nearly to his waist . 
A lion in the field , a fox in the council , he is a very lamb in the compound ; and scores of blushing virgins of all ages -- from innocent , trusting seventeen to perspicacious thirty-five -- who had been imported to India by rusée female relatives , with a view of putting a stop to their dreary state of celibacy , have ogled Captain Hugh , and sung songs at him , and embroidered pretty trifles for him , and laid siege to his heart in a hundred different ways , every one of which , for all his lamb-like demeanour , have proved totally unavailing . 
He has been away five years ; but as he paces the deck of the Isis he can scarcely persuade himself that so long a period has passed away . 
He leans against the bulwarks of the vessel ploughing her way through the long rolling wayes of the Red Sea . 
He puffs at that cheroot again , and gazes upward at the fleecy clouds , passing gingerly -- as though they feared to take too great a liberty with the Queen of Night -- across the face of the shining moon . 
He thinks on his boyhood , on the happy day when he received his direct appointment in the Honourable Company 's service , on his transition period of `` griffdom , '' of his efflorescence as a full-blown subaltern . 
The dead dull heat of the climate falls harmlessly on him now ; for he has sweltered year after year in the tightest of uniforms , and the heaviest of accoutrements , and again in all the charming abandon , full of wild sartorial reveries , and of his irregular costume , beneath the hottest-blazing sunshine . 
The mere heavy sultry languor of the Red Sea feels comparatively cool to him ; but he recollects his sensations when , as a boy , he first reached that `` other side '' which , to Anglo-Indians means all the country that lies eastward beyond the Egyptian desert , and firmly believed that his young life would be fairly scorched out of him before he reached his destination . 
Freshly came back to him the old doubts and fears , and surmises of what his career in India would end in ; whether he would be slain in battle , or rise in civil employments , or in any case vindicate the old sobriquet of `` Cockey Goldthorpe '' bestowed upon him at school . 
How well he remembered his first sword , new and slender and shining ! 
now he has half a dozen blades with him , all notched and red-rusted from deadly frays . 
He is coming Home . 
That one thought has absorbed , for weeks , all the thoughts of his waking hours , and even of his dreams . 
He has reached Aden on his way ; he has gone down into Egypt , and come to Cairo . 
As the mail nears England Hugh 's impatience and home-sickness increase . 
At the Valetta post-office he gets a packet of letters from Home , -- letters which breathe love and tender interest in every line , -- letters that tell him of the glorious reception that awaits him when he reaches his father 's house . 
He sees no reason why he should not arrive in England on the long-looked-for day , -- his father 's birthday . 
He leaves Malta for Marseilles . 
The confinement of the vessel becomes almost intolerable to him . 
He indulges in wild speculations of days when monster viaducts shall cross the Mediterranean , and express trains run without stopping from Marseilles to Malta . 
He sits in the bows of the Messageries Impériales steamer all day long ; and when a sudden squall comes on in the Gulf of Lyons , and delays the way of the ship by some three or four hours , Captain Hugh becomes almost frantic with impatience . 
Captain Hugh , during the last portions of the trip , has had his wits sufficiently about him to make friends with the mail-agent , who , he knows , will go straight through to London at express speed , and whom he has persuaded to accept him as a companion . 
Cutting in between long tumbrils drawn by long-horned oxen , and driven by Spanish-clad , swarthy , sleepy varlets , dashes and rattles , but never too rapidly for Captain Hugh , the homeward-bound convoy of letters and newspapers . 
Then he comes on to the French railway , and finds himself in mid-winter , and discovers that the pelisse he has been careful enough to bring with him , lined throughout with fur , is none too warm . 
Away over the flat dusky plains of the Midi flies the express train with its one carriage attached , shrieking , and sputtering , and roaring , but not too fast for Captain Hugh . 
He can not sleep . 
Wakeful and lynx-eyed , he remains up and anxious ; while his companions , the English and French post-couriers , are slumbering in their respective corners . 
In the rapidest of cabs , Captain Hugh scurries from the terminus of the Lyons railway to that of the Chemin de Fer du Nord . 
Captain Hugh is admitted by special favour on to the platform , instead of having to wait in the Salle d'attente . 
Captain Hugh secures a place for himself in a particularly comfortable-looking carriage , and places on the corner seat his pelisse lined throughout with fur , and his Russia-leather-covered despatch-box . 
He strolls into the refreshment-room , and has even five minutes for the discussion of his beloved cheroot . 
A lacquey who sits beside him dismounts , and assists a lady , who is the sole occupant of the carriage , to alight . 
`` Is he here , Sims ? '' 
`` He is , and , O be joyful , '' answers the little shabby man , with a grin that makes his face look more and more like a ferret , `` our agents have not deceived us . 
He came with the courier in charge of the mails , and I have just seen him in the refreshment-room . 
`` Captain Hugh Goldthorpe ? '' 
Hugh 's thoughts revert to his mother and Magdalen Hill . 
Could they have come to Paris to meet him ? 
he cries out eagerly . 
`` Yonder , '' answers the messenger , and points to where the lady who has despatched him stands , her back turned , and caressing her little spaniel . 
The loving eyes of Hugh could see at a glance that this was neither Lady Goldthorpe nor Magdalen Hill . 
He knew scarcely any one in Paris , and certainly he had no female acquaintances in that capital . 
He laughed , and looked at his watch . 
`` It 's twenty-two minutes past seven , '' he says ; `` I 've not much time to talk to a lady . 
With another laugh , thinking there must be some mistake , gallant Captain Hugh advances to a lady , takes off his hat , and , with a low bow , asks in French of what service he can be to her . 
The lady turns round , raises her veil , and looks Captain Hugh Goldthorpe full in the face . 
He starts back with something very like a cry of horror . 
he exclaims , `` it is Mrs. Armytage ! '' 
The leathern case was locked ; but in the side-pocket of the pelisse was a morocco pocket-book , which being examined was found to contain a packet of letters , with the English and Maltese post-marks , addressed to Captain Hugh Goldthorpe , H.E.I.C.S. ; and a passport five years old , and covered with visas , in which the principal Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of her Britannic Majesty requested all authorities , civil and military , to allow free passage , and afford assistance in case of need , to Captain Hugh Goldthorpe , captain in the service of the Honourable East India Company , travelling abroad . 
Had he resided in England , Sir Jasper Goldthorpe would have been proud of his acquaintance . 
There is not a penny belonging to his wretched father but I could call it mine ; and he has spurned me ... But I will crush him ; yes , Hugh Goldthorpe , '' she continued , -- and seeming to address a locket which she took from her bosom , -- `` I will crush you , body and soul , and the woman who is waiting for you yonder shall see you no more . '' 
Among the sufferers has been recognised by his papers the body of M. le Capitaine Hugh Goldthorpe , officer in the military service of the Honourable Company of the Oriental Indies , and son of Sir Goldthorpe , Baronet , and member of the Chamber of Lords of Great Britain . 
Sir Jasper Goldthorpe was the richest of rich men . 
The quilt of his bed might have been stuffed with bank-notes instead of eider-down . 
He could have afforded , had he needed caloric , to have burned one of his own palaces down , and warmed his hands by the conflagration . 
From his warm bed-room , breakfast-room , and study , his warm carriage took him , swathed in warm wrappers , to the warm sanctum of his warm counting-house . 
His head clerks wore respirators , and had mulligatawney soup for lunch . 
The Times ' City article was carefully warmed for him ere he perused it . 
His messengers comforted themselves with alamode beef and hot sausages and fried potatoes before roaring fires ; and , when they were despatched on errands , slipped into heated taverns in little City lanes , where they hastily swallowed mugs full of steaming egg-hot and cordialised porter . 
The only cold that could seemingly touch so rich a man as Sir Jasper Goldthorpe was a cold in the head ; and what possets , white-wine-wheys , gruels , footbaths , doctors ' prescriptions , and hot flannels , were there not in readiness to drive catarrh away from him ! 
So Sir Jasper Goldthorpe , his sons and their thralls and churls , their tributaries and feudatories , let the street-people shiver as beseemed their degree , flinging them cheques and sovereigns sometimes in their haughty unbending way , and went on , warm and glowing , from a prosperous old year to a prosperous new one , when suddenly a Hand of Ice , that thrilled them all to the very bones and marrow , was laid just above the heart of Mammon , and of his wife , and of his children . 
The crushed , mangled , unrecognisable corpse had been gathered up at Armentières : the fragments of clothes , mingled with its remnants , were such as a man of Hugh 's degree would have worn . 
Hugh Jasper Goldthorpe was surely dead . 
Sir Jasper Goldthorpe did not disdain to bow to the undertaker when he met him at boards and public dinners . 
A dense crowd , whispering comments on the fabulous wealth of the Goldthorpe family , followed the mournful train from the hotel to the railway station . 
In the western part of Oxford Street , and the Edgware Road , where some of Sir Jasper 's tenants dwelt , the shutters of the shops were closed . 
Sir Jasper Goldthorpe had seen no one but his wife , his body-servant Argent , and the confidential Mr. Drossleigh , since the news came . 
But those to whom Hugh had been brother felt the loss in more mingled kind . 
The second son of Sir Jasper Goldthorpe became at once a mark for eager eyes . 
He was but twenty-five years of age . 
He was unmarried . 
The nine hundred a year he had from his living could matter but little to him now . 
What a prospect lay before him ! 
Did he love his dead brother ? 
Did he regret his loss ? 
Solemn and severe , he took up his quarters in his father 's house , and obeyed the behests which , almost hourly , were transmitted to him either in Sir Jasper 's handwriting or by word of mouth of the confidential Mr. Drossleigh . 
Drossleigh took care of the City business , and , had he even not attended to affairs in Beryl Court , there is no doubt that Sir Jasper 's moneybags would have turned themselves over of their own accord , and multiplied themselves spontancously . 
A select committee of Lady Goldthorpe 's female friends kindly assisted her ; and Cashman , installed in one of the Goldthorpe carriages , was continually driving backwards and forwards between Onyx Square and Mr. Jay 's in Regent Street . 
There were hundreds of letters to be written to the vast circle of Goldthorpe 's friends and clients , bidding them to the funeral , or merely apprising them of the loss . 
They ca n't do less than give him a statue down at Goldthorpe , or at least a couple of busts for town and country , '' reasoned Tom Praxtiles the sculptor , fondly regarding his unsold Bacchante and his unsuccessful design for a monument to Lord Hill , in his not too frequented studio in Charlotte Street , Fitzroy Square . 
`` There 'll be no stonecutters ' work where a Goldthorpe 's concerned , my chick , '' George would continue . 
The sculptor had had the honour of dining more than once at Sir Jasper 's , and he never dined with a rich man without at once laying the foundation of a plot for hewing his bust while alive , or his statue when dead . 
The most he could say about the dreadful catastrophe at Armentières was that it was `` a shocking thing , '' and that `` poor Hugh was gone , you know . '' 
He wrote to his colonel and to one or two friends about the `` shocking thing , '' and the gallant officers of the Nineteenth repeated at mess that it was shocking , and that `` poor Hugh Goldthorpe had gone to the bad . '' 
The undergraduate and the clerk in the Civil Service had been mere boys when Hugh had paid his visit to England . 
They were bewildered and shocked by the awful intelligence of his death , but they could scarcely bewail it . 
He had never seen Hugh . 
He was chiefly sorry when the lady 's maid told him that Miss Magdalen , of whom he was dotingly fond , was ill with grief . 
But the laughter of his playmates -- their toys , and games , and sponge-cakes , and oranges , soon controlled him ; nor could Alfred resist an odd feeling of gratification at the thought of the fine clothes for which the tailor had measured him , and which he was to wear ; or banish from his young mind the knowledge that the sad misfortune that had happened in his family would invest him with a strange importance and interest when he went back to school . 
In the early days of January 1850 , the solemn funeral of Hugh Jasper Goldthorpe took place . 
The Goldthorpe family had been too recently inscribed in the Libro d' Oro of provincial aristocracy -LRB- Burke 's Landed Gentry -RRB- to claim sepulture in some ivy grown country church , the pavement of whose chancel was sown thick with monumental brasses and crosslegged figures , couchant , of mediæval Goldthorpes , dead and gone . 
Hugh could not be laid with his ancestors ; and Sir Jasper had ever calmly repudiated the convenient insinuation of heraldic parasites , that it might be possible to find a Goldthorpe well known as a Saxon franklin whose fathers had been here long before the Conqueror 's coming , and the registration of whose land and swine had been unaccountably omitted from Domesday-book . 
There had been some talk of a mausoleum in the park at Goldthorpe ; but this idea was abandoned at the earnest instance of the mother of the deceased . 
There were those among the Goldthorpe following who expressed themselves of opinion that Westminster Abbey was the most appropriate place for interment . 
Why had not Captain Hugh been killed at the Sutlej ? 
-- his representatives might have demanded a niche in the Abbey for him then , as of right . 
Sir Jasper knew the Dean . 
He was a selfish old man , who ate hot veal cutlets in bed , and was afraid of the weather ; but he watched the start of the procession narrowly , and to Chipp , his body servant , imparted his opinion that it was deuced well done , and a credit to Goldthorpe . 
The most direct reference to Sir Jasper Goldthorpe was made by Mr. Deedes -LRB- Deedes , Ferret , and Wax -RRB- , the great bank solicitors , who opined that , after all , Sir Jasper would be better for his calamity , for that `` they could hardly keep him out of his peerage now . '' 
The chapel is densely filled ; the last orisons are said ; the grave has been reached ; the handful of earth thrown in ; the cords are dragged rattling up ; the company throng round the frost-covered planks that edge the grave , and peep over each other 's shoulders to read the inscription on the gilded coffin-plate : HUGH JASPER GOLDTHORPE , Captain H.E.I.C.S. & c. & c. & c. Died , Twenty-seventh December , 1849 , aged Twenty-seven Years . 
Sir Jasper Goldthorpe went straight from the cemetery to the South-Western Railway Station . 
Argent , his body-servant , waited for him with one of his own close carriages at the gate . 
Natural emotion , and of the bitterest , he had shown in the chapel , and at the grave of him who had been his hope , his pride , and his joy ; but he was soon nearly himself again ; and save that there were deep-sunk cavities beneath his eyes , and that his hands and knees trembled -LRB- perchance with the cold -RRB- , you would scarcely have thought that he had suffered this dreadful blow . 
He bowed to the company on leaving the grave , said a kind word to Mr. Ravenbury , who was thrilled to the soul with gratitude thereby , pressed the hand of each of his children present , and , leaning on his second son 's arm , proceeded to his carriage . 
Sir Jasper Goldthorpe found a companion within his carriage . 
The girl flung herself into his arms . 
Everybody in office at the Railway Station knew whom they were , and turned their heads away as they alighted , that they might not be seen to notice the swollen eyes of Sir Jasper and his companion . 
Officials conducted them to it with silent respect , and policemen stood on the platform near , quietly warning off inquisitive travellers with a whisper that Sir Jasper Goldthorpe was there . 
An hour 's journey brought them to Goldthorpe Station , formerly Pogthorpe Road , but which had been rechristened in honour of the contiguity of Goldthorpe Manor , Sir Jasper 's marvel of a place hard by . 
The lodge-keeper at Goldthorpe who flung open the gilded gates was in profound black . 
There was a bright and cheerful fire burning in the dining-room : and when Sir Jasper and Magdalen had removed their travelling wrappers , the ancient butler , who had been nervously twitching his fingers and scraping his feet , as though he had some message to deliver about whose reception he was not quite certain , said , bowing deferentially : `` If you please , Sir Jasper , I was to give you this card , and the lady has been waiting more than an hour to see you . '' 
I saw the last of Hugh . '' 
Sir Jasper Goldthorpe hastily glanced at Magdalen , murmured `` Some City business , '' crumpled the card in his hand , and hurried to the door . 
He darted across the hall into his study , where , sitting before a fire as bright and as cheerful as that which he had left , was a lady in very deep but very rich black , with a very elaborate black bonnet , and pretty little black kid-gloved hands . 
The lady rose , and put out one little gloved hand to Sir Jasper Goldthorpe , smiling , showing her dazzling white teeth , and shaking her sunny ringlets -- of which she had a profusion -- as she did so . 
The Baronet took her hand , shuddering , but let it fall again as though he had come in contact with some noxious reptile . 
Sir Jasper Goldthorpe groaned , and hid his face in his hands . 
It is fit that I should go into the very deepest black for Hugh . 
I killed him . '' 
The Baronet turned his eyes , wild in amazement , towards the speaker . 
`` I killed him . 
Look here , Sir Jasper Goldthorpe , '' the lady went on , and seating herself coquettishly on one arm of the chair in which her companion crouched rather than sat , `` you once threatened to have me transported . '' 
Sir Jasper Goldthorpe I killed him with THESE ! '' 
I do n't think Sir Jasper is very well . '' 
Mrs. Armytage did not care to stay for the succour she had requested to be afforded to Sir Jasper Goldthorpe . 
Sir Jasper was in his own house , and surrounded by his own attached domestics . 
The golden and purple peacocks , in their house by the frozen lake , craned forth their necks as Mrs. Armytage approached in her way down a lower terrace into the park that stretched for full a mile before Goldthorpe Manor . 
`` What would he do to me if I were a ragged , barefooted girl caught stealing dead wood in Sir Jasper 's park ? 
`` You 've seen Sir Jasper , my lady , may be ? '' 
`` Do he bear up , my lady ? '' 
He will soon get over it . 
`` She did n't come up , though , with Sir Jasper and Miss Magdalen , surely . 
She was troubled with no fears of poachers or rustic burglars ; although there were some very coarse , ruffianly-looking fellows lounging about the door of the Goldthorpe Arms , half way between Pogthorpe and the manor . 
There was no village at Goldthorpe Station , formerly Pogthorpe Road , only a few stucco villas run up by a speculative builder , who had gone mad immediately after mortgaging the carcasses of his houses for thrice their value , and who was now expiating his taste for architecture at Colney Hatch . 
Two or three forlorn little shops had been started by traders who hoped to get some custom from the occupants of the villas ; but as half of these edifices were not finished , and the other half had hitherto found only insolvent and fraudulent tenants , and one also , as it was , had already the reputation of being haunted , from the fact of a retired pig-jobber of evil disposition having cloven his wife 's skull with a chopper in the front parlour the preceding Christmas Eve , commercial activity was not very remarkable at Goldthorpe Station . 
There was an unhappy little beer-shop , `` The Railway Arms ; '' but the topers of the neighbourhood preferred either the `` Goldthorpe Arms '' or the `` Jolly Beggars '' at Pogthorpe village proper , which was distant a mile from Sir Jasper 's . 
It was a very dreary little station , but hundreds of times its solitude had been enlivened and its dreariness converted into splendour and gaiety by the guests who had come down to visit Goldthorpe Manor . 
The flyman had conveyed peers of the realm and foreign ambassadors , when they had missed the Goldthorpe carriages . 
What have you told Sir Jasper ? 
He is dreadfully ill . 
I thought he would die . 
He had but just recovered consciousness when I started , hearing from the lodge-keeper that you had left , in the endeavour to find you . 
Is Sir Jasper in danger ? '' 
Fortunately the house-steward bled him , and Dr. Medley has been sent for . '' 
Had the news I conveyed to Sir Jasper Goldthorpe brought about fatal , or even dangerous consequences , no one would have regretted it more than I . 
As it is , he has just had a fit of syncope , and will get on nicely . 
I come through love for my dear dead Hugh ; I come through love for my dearest friends and guardians . 
It is something that concerns poor Hugh 's memory , it is something that concerns Sir Jasper ; and I ask because I feel that I have a right to know . '' 
Is there any peril that can be averted from Sir Jasper ? 
Is there anything you know of Hugh 's last moments that can inflict pain on his relatives , on me , on any one ? 
What I know , I know , and it is a matter between Sir Jasper Goldthorpe and myself . 
I am glad that Hugh was killed ; and had he come home and made you his wife , you cat , I would have poisoned or shot you before ever you sat at his table or lay in his bed . 
These were the last words of Mrs. Armytage , on that occasion at least , heard at Goldthorpe Station , erst Pogthorpe Road ; and with this farewell and benediction she went out into the night , and on to the platform . 
The carriage was waiting for her , and , sad and sorrowful , but calm and resigned now , she was borne back to Goldthorpe Manor , where physicians and nurses were bending over an old man very different to the blandly strong man who lorded it in Beryl Court , and who lay now feebly moaning and half unconscious in his great bed of state . 
`` Poor dear Sir Jasper ! 
Dr. Sardonix paid a whole academy of compliments before he reached Goldthorpe Manor . 
The special train that took the Doctor down to Goldthorpe passed the ordinary up express , and the illustrious medical man was near enough at one moment to a certain first-class coupé to have shaken hands with its occupant had he chosen to run the risk of fracturing his arm in so doing . 
That white-faced puss at Goldthorpe can whine and sob . 
I ca n't even weep when I think of Hugh . 
To her was due the episcopal Faculty which permitted the erection in the chancel of St. Mary-la-Douce of a magnificent memorial , in the form of a window , to Captain Hugh Jasper Goldthorpe , deceased . 
Sir Jasper Goldthorpe had happily recovered the shock brought about by his great grief , and which had culminated in a series of fainting fits at Goldthorpe Manor on the evening of the funeral . 
But he was sadly shaken . 
His physicians had insisted that he should temporarily abstain from the cares of business . 
He went away to Nice , to Naples , to Malta , with Lady Goldthorpe ; came back in the autumn of 1850 ; once more made his appearance among the clerks in Beryl Court ; but suffered a relapse on the very anniversary of his son 's death , and went abroad again . 
He was now in Belgium , whither he had come from Paris , and was staying at the residence of some great financial dignitary of the Low Countries . 
But Sir Jasper was expected back : of course being so rich a man , he had been made a commissioner of the Exhibition , foreman of a jury , and all sorts of things . 
From ill health he had been unable to attend the opening ceremonial , but he was now convalescent ; and on his return Magdalen was to join him in Onyx Square : only for a few days , however , for the girl loathed London and the gilded palace there , and seemed to prefer her residence in the village where she was hated . 
The invalid gentleman you saw is a great English milord , -- Sir Jasper Goldthorpe by name , a member of the British parliament , and richer they say than Rothschild . '' 
`` And the belle dame , whom should she be but Miladi Goldthorpe , his wife . '' 
She shuddered at the contrast between the pale , thoughtful , refined Ernest , with his high white brow , his crisply curled chestnut locks , -- he was a delicate copy of his brother Hugh , -- his tiny hands and feet , his neat and well-fitting garments , and this brawny , swarthy , hirsute , round-shouldered , bull-necked , large-limbed , Ruthyn Pendragon . 
You ca n't go on for ever moping here , and grizzling about that poor dear Hugh Goldthorpe . '' 
He was quite prepared for his visitor , who turned out to be Sir Jasper Goldthorpe , neat and spotless as to outward appearance as ever , but very pale and careworn , and bowed ; not at all the man he was at Christmas Eighteen hundred and forty-nine . 
It might have been long illness and long mental suffering , but Sir Jasper , before whom all men were wont to tremble , seemed quite meek and humble -- almost cowed , to tell the truth , before the mean little man with the gray head and the purple nose . 
`` I had better , '' Sir Jasper softly urged . 
cried Jasper appealingly . 
Sir Jasper broke in , catching the little man by his garment . 
I 'm Filoe , and the boy in the next room 's the Co. '' `` I should know the name well enough , '' Sir Jasper retorted , with a transient touch of his old haughtiness . 
Sir Jasper slightly groaned , and hid his face in his handkerchief . 
As he upbraided Mrs. Armytage , so he upbraided Sir Jasper Goldthorpe ; and the tone of his last speech had been quite mellifluous . 
`` It was not on his account , I called upon you , '' Sir Jasper answered , with an unquiet look towards his tormentor . 
Are you going to pay me , here and now , or am I to lock up Sir Jasper Goldthorpe 's son in Cursitor Street ? '' 
`` I would do all I could to satisfy the claims against him , but I fear that he has other liabilities . '' 
I dare say twenty thousand would n't cover the paper he has out , let alone the nice little nest-egg he 's laid for the Derby . 
There 's scarcely a bill-discounter in London who has n't got his precious autograph . 
They think he 's pretty safe , knowing what his father seems to be , but not knowing what he really is so well as I do . 
And yet I do n't know anything , do I , Sir Jasper ? 
But I 'll tell you what : our people are getting shy even of the son of such a rich man as Sir Jasper Goldthorpe . 
He 's but a younger son , you know , after all . 
Sir Jasper groaned again . 
Captain Goldthorpe ca n't be a defaulter . '' 
`` Is there no compromising his imprudent wagers ? '' 
`` That speech from Sir Jasper Goldthorpe , '' Mr. Sims exclaimed , in graceful raillery , -- `` those words from a gentleman who coins gold , who eats , drinks , and sleeps upon money-bags ! 
Do you know , Sir Jasper Goldthorpe , that I 'm not quite so well satisfied with the security as I was an hour ago ? 
`` Upon my word , Sir Jasper Goldthorpe , I do n't ; and I ca n't see what any papers , fatal or otherwise , have to do with your visit to me . '' 
He saw there was nothing to be gained by deceiving Sir Jasper Goldthorpe on this point , and was for that reason quite candid and truthful . 
`` Then , you know nothing , '' the baronet asked , but not in a relieved tone , as though he would rather have been in the power of Mr. Sims than in that of Mrs. Armytage . 
Sir Jasper moved towards the door . 
`` I must try again , '' he murmured . 
`` And I one , and no light hold , over you , Desborough , '' Sir Jasper interposed in a low , sad voice . 
Sir Jasper Goldthorpe looked at this mean , gray , ill-favoured little man , with his rogue 's face and shabby raiment , and his thoughts rolled back long years . 
He was among the twenties , and saw himself humble and struggling behind a country-shop counter , his wife in the back parlour nursing a baby boy . 
He saw the man , who , in despite of truth and knowledge , he was to call Filoe , not Desborough , young , natty , spruce , rosy -- a jaunty little man in a white hat , blue coat , yellow waistcoat , stocking-net pantaloons , and Hessian boots -- a merry little man , fond of his bottle of port , his rubber of whist , and his Anacreontic song , which he piped in a chirping voice when business-hours were over . 
His name was written in the midst of the great Pacific wave , and a great golden rock rolled across Sir Jasper Goldthorpe 's field of vision , and left him face to face with Filoe and Co. composedly grinning . 
`` There is nothing more , '' Sir Jasper said , with a deep , deep sigh . 
`` The reputation of my house , '' -- Sir Jasper began , in his grave plodding voice . 
The baronet looked round for his hat , and muttered something about a cheque awaiting the pleasure of Filoe and Co. . 
`` I suppose I must let you go your own gate , '' observed Mr. Sims , releasing his hold on Sir Jasper 's lapels , and thrusting his hand into his pocket again . 
`` Nothing , nothing , '' Sir Jasper falteringly made answer ; and he was given over to Buffalmacco the Ruthless , and conducted out of Coger 's Castle . 
Why , even a little servants ' - hall tendresse , between Sir Jasper Goldthorpe 's fifth footman and the scullery-maid in Onyx Square , might alleviate the intolerable dreariness of this history of money-bags , bills for discount , postage-stamps , cheques , bank-notes , and naughty people who live in ugly places and lend money at sixty per cent . 
By the way , will you go halves in another five hundred at three months for young Goldthorpe ? '' 
Deara , deara me , the little tricks he used to be up to . 
It was his custom , mum , always to stop the payment of the cheques to drew . 
Then you went back to him in a rage , and he said he was very sorry , and gave you another cheque , which was to be as right as ninepence , -- he 'd made a little error in his balance , he said then ; and deara , deara me , you used to get the money , and Filoe and Co. used to get sometimes twenty-four hours ' , and sometimes forty-eight hours ' more profit on their little balances . 
but he would n't serve poor old Ephy such a trick . '' 
`` You would n't take my cheque , '' she remarked , `` although you seem glad enough to accept one from a person who , it appears , was in the habit of cheating those with whom he dealt . 
`` Yes , Willy is very like Hugh . 
Poor Hugh ! '' 
Years ago , when my poor dear dead darling Hugh come back from India on his leave , and stopped in Paris , that woman tried to wind him round her finger . 
I found one of her yellow curls in his cigar-case once -- '' `` Mamma ! '' 
Her name turned out to be , when Sir Jasper transported her , -- not Sharpe at all , but Bowdler . '' 
There 's Sir Jasper Goldthorpe as good as the dividends on Plough Monday . 
I 'm nervous ; I 'm anxious about Sir Jasper . 
His life hangs on a thread , and were he to die , we could prove nothing . 
Besides , when I saw him last , he seemed gêné and embarrassed , and spoke of the scarcity of money . '' 
`` Surely he ca n't be travelling to Queer Street . 
Where did you see him last ? '' 
`` Has he come back to England yet ? '' 
`` He returns to-day . 
The young fellow I spoke of is the soldier-officer -- the dragoon Goldthorpe . '' 
I dare say that few persons find any thing astonishing in the wealth of my Sir Jasper Goldthorpe , in the good-humour and vulgarity of his wife , in the self-possessed reticence of Miss Magdalen Hill , in the politeness of Dr. Sardonix , or in the easy profligacy of the Captain of Dragoons . 
I have it -- Hugh . '' 
who called Hugh ? '' 
For every line of his face was convulsed by horror and amazement , as he kept muttering , `` Hugh ! 
Hugh ! 
who is this man that calls himself Hugh ? '' 
The auriferous tide had once more its ebb and flow between Beryl Court and the mansion of Mammon ; and splendour , if not gaiety , resumed its reign in the domains of Sir Jasper Goldthorpe . 
The Baronet had come home for the London season , Lady Goldthorpe with him ; and Miss Magdalen Hill had come up from The Casements to join her adopted mother . 
Sir Jasper 's health , said Dr. Sardonix , was entirely restored . 
Nobody who heard Dr. Sardonix believed a word that he said about Sir Jasper Goldthorpe 's complete restoration to health . 
Sir Jasper never had anything the matter with his liver . 
Bless his heart , he could digest a saddle and bridle for breakfast , and a copper stewpan for dinner . 
`` I do n't see why they should n't come together now poor dear Hugh 's gone , '' she reasoned to herself . 
But Maggy loved Hugh too dearly to be false to his memory ; so she said . 
Ah , Hugh , Hugh ! 
poor dear Hugh ! 
There were more persons in Onyx House besides Lady Goldthorpe and the confidential Cashman who shrugged surmises and whispered misgivings about Sir Jasper 's altered manner , his bowed and drooping head , his anxious face . 
Argent , Sir Jasper 's body-servant , remarked it . 
Argent was a shrewd man , and ventured to sound Mr. Drossleigh , the financial factotum , who still came backwards and forwards between Onyx Square and Beryl Court , Sir Jasper 's ill-health frequently compelling him to absent himself for days together from business . 
`` It 's no business of yours , and none of mine , Argent , for the matter of that , '' he remarked , `` and it would be worth both our situations if Sir Jasper found us out prying into his affairs ; but between you and me , his goings-on puzzle me quite as much as they do you . 
I suppose we both see about as much of him , you in your way , and I in mine . 
I do hope that Sir Jasper has n't got into any trouble about a bit of white muslin . '' 
Nor did Sir Jasper Goldthorpe 's condition escape the notice and the comments of two young ladies at that time resident in his mansion . 
Letitia Salusbury saw Magdalen 's grief in a stronger light than even she did Sir Jasper 's , and sympathised with her to the full . 
Can you write Sir Jasper Goldthorpe 's name ? 
You may imagine how pleasant the task of introduction was to Miss Hill ; how touching were Mrs. Armytage 's inquiries after dear Lady Goldthrope , and Sir Jasper , and Captain William , and all the living Sons of Mammon . 
Sir Jasper Goldthorpe and party just driven on to the Hill . 
She had a strange fancy that Tottlepot would die , that Sir Jasper Goldthorpe would have a fit of apoplexy , that something would occur to secure immunity for what she had done . 
`` Sir Jasper is here ; indeed it was solicitude lest my illustrious patient should in any way overexert himself that has brought me , a grave physician , little accustomed to these giddy scenes , here to-day . '' 
`` Sir Jasper , ah , Sir Jasper , '' mused Mrs. Armytage . 
He generally managed to get down to the Downs without compromising himself , and on this occasion , in a shooting-coat and a wide-awake , passed all but unrecognised in the rumble of the Goldthorpe , -- I mean of one of the Goldthorpe carriages . 
He sat contentedly upon a wheel , and ate and drank his fill ; and then the widow said to him , `` I want to hear about Captain Goldthorpe . 
What has he done on the race ? 
Utter and irremediable ruin , unless Sir Jasper pays all . 
Extravagant as he has been , Sir Jasper will hardly allow his son 's name to be compromised . 
As he retreated she put her head out of the carrige-window , and , not for the first time , whipered softly to herself , `` Poor fellow , how like Hugh he is ! '' 
Has Sir Jasper Goldthorpe got away ? '' 
`` No ; his carriage and party are within fifty yards of us ; but within a minute of your leaving comes down a telegraphic message to us to hold over all our warrants against him , leave off watching him even , and come back to town . '' 
`` He is still very rich , perhaps , and very powerful , and has influential friends . '' 
Among them , I am sorry to say , were Captain Goldthorpe , already half consoled for his losses , and Viscount Groomporter , who was growing more and more flushed as to his countenance , and less and less steady as to his legs . 
They fastened , of course , as a preliminary peg , upon Sir Jasper Goldthorpe : but the baronet was convalescent ; he had been to the Derby ; he was at business the next day , and in the evening was to give a grand dinner-party to certain illustrious foreigners , then sojourning in the British metropolis . 
It was during the day of which this was to be the triumphant conclusion that people in the City talked most about Sir Jasper Goldthorpe . 
I can not with certainty determine , any more than I can fix with exactitude upon him who first states authoritatively that Consols shall be ninety-seven and an eighth ; that French Three-per-cents shall be sixty-five and a quarter . 
Somebody else agrees with him ; a third assentient adds his voice , and the quotation of the Funds is stricken . 
Goldthorpe 's House . 
Goldthorpe 's House . 
Who , if he had n't been sniffing after an English peerage , which he 'll never get , and if he had n't been -- more 's the shame -- an Englishman , would have liked to go to Vienna , and be made a German baron of ? 
I say , Goldthorpe 's House , and Jasper Goldthorpe ; and if he smashes to-day , it 's his own fault for a fool , and the Austrian government 's for a pack of rogues . '' 
`` The great house of Goldthorpe has stopped payment , -- stopped payment ! 
Sir Jasper Goldthorpe 's cut his throat -- his own throat , my chick ; Lady Goldthorpe poisoned herself with naptha -- no , camphine -- out of a lamp . 
Sir Jasper 's ward -- you know -- Miss Hill , -- all her savings are swallowed up ; and they say that the head clerk in Beryl Court has bolted with ninety thousand , and that before Sir Jasper committed suicide he tried to set fire to the house in Onyx Square , only the flames were extinguished by Dr. Sardonix and the under-butler . 
And he was at the race only yesterday , looking better than ever , and was to have given a grand dinner and ball this evening , to which I was invited . 
`` Sir Jasper Goldthorpe 's position is too high in the City of London , his fortune is too ample , his means are too vast , for such a disaster to overtake him , -- that is , taking human probabilities into consideration . 
The great house of Goldthorpe was bankrupt , and Magdalen Hill was a beggar . 
That feu d'enfer at Sebastopol , of which Menschikoff wrote such rueful accounts to his Emperor , was a mere popgun cannonade compared with the devastating bombardment of Bankruptcy . 
It was speedily manifest that not all the king 's horses nor all the king 's men could ever set Sir Jasper Goldthorpe up again . 
I am now but at the morrow of the disaster ; but was it fivepence , or was it nothing at all in the pound , that Goldthorpe 's estate , after seven years ' delay , rendered to the creditors ? 
Goldthorpe 's estate ! 
The sage heads of other City firms looked on a man out of Goldthorpe 's as one whose experiences had been vast , whose knowledge of monetary ramifications must be prodigious , and who must necessarily be up , not to a thing or two , but to a thing or twenty . 
One gentleman positively married on the strength of Goldthorpe 's bankruptcy . 
Another , as precautionary measures , immediately increased his tailor 's bill , ordered some peculiar port from his wine-merchant , and took a house on a long lease . 
The fountain in the Court ceased playing of course ; and then it came out how much money was owing to the Water Company , in which Sir Jasper was a shareholder . 
Hundreds of thousands of pounds sterling were owed to Sir Jasper Goldthorpe ; only Brumm Brothers of Finsbury Circus , and Poulgar and Tyke of Manchester , and J. C. Whittlestool of New York , and Solomon Bennosey and Co. of Vienna and Trieste , and Jacob van Scholdup and Nephews of the Hague , and Caïkee , Ferikjee , and Bostandji-Bashi of Constantinople , -- those great Greek bankers and farmers of the Moldavio-Wallachian tribute , -- all happened to smash up simultaneously with Sir Jasper Goldthorpe , or as early , at least , as the return of post would permit them . 
Sir Jasper Goldthorpe was seen no more on his accustomed walk in the Royal Exchange . 
He took his name off the books of the Callipash Club in Old Broad Street . 
He was one of the Wardens of the Worshipful Company of Battle-axe Makers ; but he did not join that ancient Society at their June feast in Battle-axe Makers ' Hall , or drink prosperity to the Company `` root and branch . '' 
It was about this time that Sir Jasper 's former chums and associates -- if a man so mighty can be said to have ever had chums or associates -- were found to turn their heads the other way , or to cross discreetly to the other side of the road , when the ruined man crept by on his way to his lawyers . 
`` He ought to know better , '' said another . 
Joddles , of Joddles and Toddles , Turkey brokers , had a dreadful dream about Sir Jasper Goldthorpe , and told it the next morning , coldly perspiring as he spoke , to a friend . 
`` By Jove , sir ! '' 
he said , `` I dreamt last night of that fellow Goldthorpe coming to my place , and wanting to borrow half-a-sufferin of me . 
And of course I would n't lend it to him . 
And then he seized me by the throat ; and then he changed into the Rotunda of the Bank of England ; and then I fell into a tureenful of scalding hot turtle ; and then I woke . 
The Reverend Hugh Hango Hollowpenny , who , through Sir Jasper 's influence , had been presented to the comfortable living of St.-Pogis-under-Pump -LRB- resident population thirteen hundred and thirteen , average congregation nine and a half , -- the half being a hunch-backed charity-boy -RRB- , took the ruined Goldthorpe as the text for a very neat sermon preached in the ancient church of St. Pogis , the first Sunday after the decline of Mammon . 
Then came two or three stinging leaders , in which it was irrefragably proved that such a system of business as that pursued by Jasper Goldthorpe must inevitably find its culmination in ruin and disgrace , and in which he was likened to John Law , to Rowland Stephenson , and , by implication , to the late Mr. Fauntleroy . 
The weekly journals teemed with tiny paragraphs , contributed by industrious penny-a-liners , not quite certain on Friday as to where their Sunday 's dinner was to come from , and alluding to the Sardanapalian extravagance of Sir Jasper , to the wasteful prodigality of the Sons of Mammon , to the Persian splendour of Beryl Court , the Versailles-like magnificence of Onyx Square , and the Arcadian beauty of Goldthorpe Manor . 
There were little anecdotes , too , about Sir Jasper having been in the habit of purchasing early green peas at a guinea a quart , feeding his horses on Jamaica arrowroot , and cane-bottoming the chairs in his servants ' hall with gold wire . 
It would be difficult to describe with precision the immediate effect which the failure of Sir Jasper Goldthorpe had upon that polite world of which he had been for so long the envy and the ornament . 
The news of Goldthorpe 's stoppage was wafted , of course , on a thousand wings through Temple Bar , -- another edition came round Newgate Street and Holborn way , -- rushed with lightning swiftness up Fleet Street , and so to Charing Cross , where , bifurcating , it was transmitted , in duplicate , westward to Tyburnia and southward to Belgravia . 
The polite world felt , in the first place , naturally vexed and humiliated at the collapse of a sumptuous Entity to whom they had so long bowed the knee , whom , together with its belongings , they had courted , flattered , not to say beslavered with adulation ; to whose feasts they had rejoiced to be bidden ; in whose sunshine they had basked ; and in whose temporal Eternity -- for many persons , gross as seems the paradox , do positively believe that Riches will last for ever -- they had reposed so strong a faith ; and Sir Jasper Goldthorpe , they argued , had no right to set himself up as a rich man , since the foundations of his formidably gigantic fortune were , after all , built upon a quicksand . 
Thus , while in the City Sir Jasper Goldthorpe was looked upon as a simply unfortunate man who had gone a little too fast , over-traded , and had found at last things turn out badly , he was regarded at the West End , and by the impulsive polite world , as little short of a swindler . 
And finally , drawing a neat and genteel moral from the downfall of this rich man , who had so wickedly proved to be poorer than Job , the polite world bade its admirers , dependents , toadies , and hangers-on take warning by the fate of the Goldthorpes , beware in future of these City sharpers and adventurers , and mark the results which followed the encouragement and the admission into society of mere plebeians ; for although Sir Jasper Goldthorpe 's name was in Burke and in Debrett , and he had a handle to his name , and a bloody hand in his escutcheon , he had not been two days bankrupt ere the polite world found out that he was of the meanest possible extraction , and , not many years ago , had kept a shop in a little country town . 
The Doctor 's present reward was to be called a good , kind soul ; and to hear on every side rumours that , contrary to the usual exigent etiquette of the profession , he had allowed the Goldthorpe family to run in his debt for hundreds of fees . 
His hope of future guerdon lay , perhaps , in the bare possibility that , some day or another , some member of the Goldthorpe family might hold his head up again , and , by his bounty , recall the gladsome days when he scarcely ever met a Goldthorpe without having his smooth palm crossed with gold . 
I am bound to admit that Doctor Sardonix refrained -LRB- purely through motives of delicacy -RRB- from leaving his card at the house of the ruined family , and that Zenobia his spouse `` improved the occasion , '' as the diplomatists say , to make the Goldthorpe bankruptcy a frequent text for exhortations to her family and friends on the pomps and vanities of earthly things , and the sinfulness of a mere reliance on perishable dross . 
He remarked that Goldthorpe might have played his cards better . 
In the Park , hearing further details of the Smash , he opined that Sir Jasper had brought his pigs to a fine market ; and after dinner , at the Club , between his rubbers , he observed that he did n't see how G. was to get out of the mess . 
He consulted his books , and found that the funeral of Hugh Jasper Goldthorpe had been paid for at the expiration of the customary year of grace , and that not one of the costly items had been disputed by the family . 
So he had nothing to say against Mammon . 
Old Mrs. Twizzle , from Maida Hill , was furious against the whole Goldthorpe race . 
some occasional lines on Hugh Jasper Goldthorpe 's tomb , and , on her return , gave warning to her maid Vamter , and severely chastised her poodle for eating black sealing-wax -- a refreshment to which that pampered animal was much addicted . 
Hawksley , R.N. , albeit devoted to the Bosuns , -- he has been engaged to all the girls in succession , and it is hoped may still make a good end of it when Mrs. Admiral becomes a widow , -- behaved very well under the circumstances . 
He said that Goldthorpe did n't owe him any money , and that he used to give very capital dinners and very jolly parties ; that the old woman , meaning Lady Goldthorpe , was trump ; and that if he was n't a poor devil of a sea-captain on half-pay , he would lend him some money , he would . 
Chewke , late of Riga , instructed Chipp , his body-servant , to purchase the Times for him every morning until the proceedings in Goldthorpe 's bankruptcy were terminated . 
He could not wait for the City article and the Basinghall-Street record until it was time for him to take his noontide walk to the Union Club . 
He read all about the choice of assignees , and the proof-of-debts meetings , over hot pigeon-pie , on which he had lately taken to breakfasting in bed . 
It is probable that he was nursing a store of facetiæ and coundrums against the unhappy Baronet 's hanging himself or Lady Goldthorpe 's dying of a broken heart . 
At Goldthorpe Manor -- that marvel of a place ? 
Onyx Square , Goldthorpe Manor , treasures , honours , dignities , alliances , friendships , luxuries , whims and caprices , -- all faded away `` like the breath from off the mirror , '' and `` like the foam from off the sea , '' and like the shadow of the shadow of smoke . 
In this narrow crib , with a lady professor of the pianoforte -- terms , one-and-sixpence an hour -- over head ; with a tailor , not too rarely inebriated , above that , and a pack of howling children perpetually executing gymnastic feats on the staircase , and settling their little differences in the passage , -- were content to abide Sir Jasper and Lady Goldthorpe and Magdalen Hill . 
Sir Jasper had ever been a shy and reticent man , and those whom he had shunned in his prosperity shunned him now in his adversity . 
Some old clients to whom Mammon had been generous from his abundant store , some old servants who remembered what good living , and what comfortable quarters they had enjoyed in the old time , were anxious to do their former master and mistress such services as lay in their power . 
`` Never mind what , '' Sir Jasper cried , in an agonising voice . 
`` Jasper Goldthorpe , '' his wife said , with something like dignity in her homely way , `` to me you have always been a good and faithful husband ; to me you have always acted as an honest man . 
`` Walls have ears , Sir Jasper , '' a voice close behind the Baronet said ; `` and so have people behind parlour-doors ; and pretty sharp ones too . '' 
And Mr. Sims had knocked a soft rat-tat at the street-door , while the bankrupt baronet and his wife were in conversation , -- Magdalen was away -- gone in quest of work , she had said , in her proud way , -- and after a brief parley on the door-mat , ending with his slipping a five-shilling piece into the landlady 's hand , -- a great outlay for the usually economical Mr. Sims , -- he had been permitted to remain in ambush for a few minutes in the narrow little passage ; had doubtless -- thanks to a flimsy lodging-house parlour-door and his sharp ears -- heard the concluding part of the colloquy between Sir Jasper and Lady Goldthorpe , and now entered the room , cool , confident , and suggestive of no science being to him a mystery . 
Somebody may know the history of Sir Jasper 's misfortunes , of Mrs. Armytage 's agony , better than I do , and may be enabled to give a version of the affair differing very widely from mine . 
Said George to Mopps -LRB- who was leading the waiter a terrible life about ice-pudding -RRB- , `` Do you recollect Sir Jasper Goldthorpe 's being in the chair here for the Hare Lips in ' 47 ? '' 
I remember Sir Jasper 's being in the chair well , and how we had to give a column and a half of his speech , for he was such a great gun , and was going to be made a Lord , so everybody said . '' 
I only wanted to say that I saw Sir Jasper Goldthorpe to-day . '' 
`` I thought he had hanged himself , '' growled Mopps , who was putting a composite finish to his dinner , with a plate full of pestachio ice , blanc mange , plovers-eggs , maccaroons , and Stilton cheese , and was draining his vast array of wineglasses , lest the waiters carrying them off should find any `` ullages '' in them for surreptitious tippling on staircases . 
`` I heard he had gone into the Charterhouse or the workhouse , '' Mr. Topinamboo observed . 
`` I had heard he had emigrated , and got into trouble about stealing a horse , '' charitably observed Mr. Thuggy . 
`` Sure I heard he was dead , '' tranquilly observed O'Crawl , slicing a pine-apple . 
`` I saw him to-day in Regent Street , quite old and broken , and with his hair as white as snow . '' 
`` I am glad of it , '' the Samaritan opposite observed , with a savage grin ; `` then there is no new swindle up for him to fatten on . '' 
`` He was always a poor mean-spirited creature , '' chimed in little Topinamboo , who had not courage enough to say bo to a goose , to say nothing of Goldthorpe . 
It always struck me that Goldthorpe had a hanging face ; he was just like the portrait of the elder Perreau , and walked precisely like Dr. Dodd . '' 
George Gafferer was right , for a wonder , in what he had said concerning Sir Jasper Goldthorpe . 
He had seen the Baronet that day in Regent Street , and more than this , the former magnate of the City was to be seen every day in the great fashionable West End thoroughfare between four and five in the afternoon . 
Fate had been good to Sir Jasper Goldthorpe in one sense , but had dealt hardly with him in another . 
Fate had at least decreed that he should emerge from his ruin personally unharmed . 
The enemies who predicted that he must necessarily be convicted of swindling , robbery , and fraud , were disappointed . 
He went through the long and tedious ordeal of bankruptcy , not , indeed , without difficulty nor without discredit , but he came out of Basinghall Street safe and sound , and in dread of no penal clauses . 
It is true that some of his transactions appearing to the Commissioner as somewhat dubious , his certificate , when granted , was of the third class , was suspended for awhile , and without protection . 
The withholding of protection was a more serious matter ; and , indeed , Sir Jasper was taken in execution ten minutes after he had left the tribunal of fiats and dockets , by the trustees of an infuriated widow at Muswell Hill , of whose jointure he had made ducks and drakes . 
He sojourned for a season , I am ashamed to say , in Whitecross Street ; for his allowance from the creditors while the bankruptcy was pending had stopped , and he was temporarily without even the necessary funds to purchase a habeas corpus for conveyance to the Queen 's Bench . 
Mr. Morris Hyams was good enough to officiate as cicerone towards the vile slum where the gaol is situated , and informed Sir Jasper that he had lately had an opportunity of `` doing the polite '' to his son , `` the Capting , '' who , in Mr. Hyams ' opinion was `` a real swell , and no mistake . '' 
The change had begun to set in with Sir Jasper Goldthorpe . 
It was a very sad and curious thing to watch him purchasing his petty groceries at the chandler 's shop in the yard ; to see him wait anxiously at the grate for the beer-boy ; to see him at the huge roaring fire in the coffee-room , with the inscription `` Dum spiro , spero `` flourished on the mantel above , meekly waiting his turn to cook his halfpound of beef-skirt . 
`` They ai n't handsome , '' quoth the pig-jobber -- meaning his chaussure , not his offsping -- when he had insisted on officiating as valet de chambre , and had laced on the boots -- very tightly , for they were a world too large , and the laces had to be wound a dozen times round the little woman 's ankles -- `` they ai n't handsome , and they 'd be better , p ` r ` aps , for a trifle of cotton stuffed into the toes ; but I 'll warrant 'em to stand all the mud in Smiffel on a market morning in Janiwerry . '' 
The pig-jobber went about for a fortnight afterwards in a pair of slippers of curious fashion , manufactured by himself , and made , apparently , from a scrap of matting and a fragment of engine hose ; but I think that had he gone just then before the Great Commissioner of Insolvent Audit , he would not have been asked many questions as to why he was so shod , and what he had done with his stout serviceable anklejacks . 
He was communicated with , and Sir Jasper was transferred by habeas to the Bench . 
There he had a room to himself , neatly furnished , and was attended by Mrs. Punt , laundress , own sister to Mesdames Grunt , Runt , Bunt , and Hunt , who `` did for him , '' to use the classical term ; made his bed , washed up his tea-things , stole his tea and sugar , and strongly adjured him , morning and night , to `` go up like a man and ha ' done with it . '' 
Within a month a few of Sir Jasper 's old friends , the Reverend Ernest lending his assistance of course , made up a purse among them ; the trustees of the infuriated widow at Muswell Hill were appeased , and Sir Jasper Goldthorpe came out into Belvidere Place , Southwark , quite a free man . 
We said he had friends who still clung to him , but they were mostly of those who in earlier days had been reckoned very low down indeed in the scale of his vassals and retainers . 
The polite world had done with him of course ; the plutocracy of the City had formally repudiated him ; but Argent , his former body-servant , who had set up a lodging-house in St. James 's with the savings acquired in his service to Mammon , insisted on giving his old master a bank-note for fifty pounds , while the confidential Mr. Drossleigh informed Sir Jasper that he was instructed by a client to pay him ten pounds per quarter until further notice ; and I have every reason to believe that the confidential Mr. Drossleigh 's client was in this instance no other than the confidential Mr. Drossleigh himself . 
A fat and splendid gentleman driving a very splendid mail phaeton , with two very splendid and champing grey horses splendidly harnessed -- the same splendid gentleman , in fact , whom Mrs. Armytage had seen at Paradise Cottage , Badger Lane , Stockwell , the residence of Ephraim Tigg , Esq. , the Rasper -- and who was indeed Mr. Montmorenci Sheenysson , the fashionable billdiscounter of St. James 's Place , entertained some thoughts of employing Sir Jasper , on the strength of his baronetcy , as a runner , touter , or decoy-duck for young men about town who wanted money , but he found the poor wretched ex-millionaire quite unsuitable for his purpose . 
It was then that , in a few words , he had relieved Sir Jasper 's mind from a great burden , that he had extricated him from an awful peril , that he had taken away the sword of Damocles so long impending over him , that he had rolled away for ever the stone like unto that which overhung the sultan 's bed , and for years had threatened to topple over and crush him . 
`` Goldthorpe , '' he said , `` Hugh Desborough is come to save his old partner from wearing fetters on his ankles , and working on the roads at Sydney . 
Sir Jasper Goldthorpe was free , and to the world as innocent as the babe unborn . 
He drew a long breath , and put his hand to his heart . 
asked Sir Jasper . 
And it was thus Sir Jasper escaped dreadful consequences . 
Think it not strange for me to have dismissed his deliverance so rapidly . 
This was Mr. Sims ' first active deliverance of Sir Jasper from his self-created Philistines . 
`` You must get out of this , Goldthorpe , '' he said , when the Baronet sheepishly confided to him his wretched embarrassments caused by corn and coal and bubble schemes . 
It was Mr. and Mrs. Mordaunt , who were happy to let apartments furnished to single gentlemen , with partial board if required , -- not Sir Jasper and Lady Goldthorpe . 
He could no longer be called Bullion Goldthorpe by his fellow-clerks . 
So all that Lieutenant Goldthorpe , R.N. , had to wish for was a good sharp war , which would bring him a little fame and a little prize-money . 
Captain Goldthorpe -- once a Captain , always a Captain -- drove down to his club in the rapidest of Hansoms , gave the driver half-a-crown instead of a shilling for his fare , had a very nice little dinner , drank a bottle of very sound Pomard , and afterwards , over his Seltzerwater and Cognac and the most fragrant of Havannahs , put the smoking-room in a roar with an account of his recent ordeal , of the humours of the Commissioner , and specially of the examination of an insolvent umbrella-maker , with a clubfoot and an impediment in his speech , who , after undergoing a stern and terrifying lecture , had been remanded for six months by the indignant judicial functionary , who had recently gone through his own Court , for the heinous offence of contracting a debt of nine pounds seven shillings without reasonable expectations of payment . 
Captain Goldthorpe consoled himself very well under his misfortunes . 
He had a handsome figure , a good constitution , very long moustachios , and a cheerful disposition . 
In the gay circles of Paris , in the cheerful Passages of Brussels , but chiefly at those delightful places on the Rhine where a medical regimen is combined with the pursuit of roulette and rouge et noir , Captain Goldthorpe found diversion after his many troubles . 
In eighteen hundred and fifty-two Captain Goldthorpe , principally of the Rhine , was in a transition state . 
Sir Jasper Goldthorpe had kept riches to his hurt , and had lost it through evil travail , and had begotten sons , and there was nothing in their hands . 
And yet Sir Jasper Goldthorpe walked Regent Street , and was a Baronet there . 
Now and then some old patrician acquaintance coming from the clubs or alighting from his carriage would recognise and hold him in chat for a minute or so , and returning home say , `` I met poor old Goldthorpe to-day ; he is quite worn out . '' 
He was known at some halfdozen shops in the purlieus of Regent Street , and the shop people bowed to him and called him Sir Jasper . 
Sir Jasper would meet his club acquaintances in Regent Street , and they would take his arm and show him off , and introduce him to their acquaintances as a kind of lion . 
`` The obtrusiveness of that man is disgusting , '' quoth Tom Tadpole on his hired hack , when the Baronet persisted in saluting him ; `` he still thinks he is one of us . '' 
In the very earliest days of Sir Jasper 's bankruptcy , Letitia Salusbury had sought her out with offers of assistance . 
The breach between Letitia and Magdalen was not to be healed , and the whole Goldthorpe family suffered through that deadly feud . 
Sir Jasper was inclined to be querulous , and to murmur at the injury which Magdalen 's stupid pride , as he called it , had inflicted on his prospects of assistance from the wealthy Lord Chalkstonehengist and his open-handed daughter . 
She advertised , with a grim persistency , day after day in the Times for a situation as governess . 
All at once , and with a sharp spasmodic cry , she asked : `` Where is Hugh ? 
Is he dead too ? '' 
`` Hugh the convict ? '' 
`` No ; Hugh Goldthorpe . 
Hugh that was to have married Magdalen Hill . 
Hugh that I killed . '' 
`` Why , you know you have seen him half-a-dozen times within these three days . '' 
`` I want to see him again . 
I want him to forgive me . '' 
`` You silly little creature , has he not told you over and over again that he forgives you -- that he bears you no malice for having buried him alive in that convent in Belgium -- in that prison of Belleriport . 
He is Hugh Goldthorpe once more , no longer a lay brother or a convicts ' gaoler . 
He is going home to England to his father and mother . '' 
He left Florence and Hugh together for twenty minutes , when the young man , with a scared face , opened the door , and bade them enter , for God 's sake . 
Forgive me , Hugh ; forgive me , Magdalen ; oh , God , forgive me ! '' 
Good-bye , my dear Hugh . 
Good-bye , Mrs. H. I am Hugh 's godfather , you know , and knew him when he was a baby in long clothes . 
Were Hugh and Magdalen happy , I wonder ? 
I know they went to Van Diemen 's Land , and that Hugh was very successful as a sheep-farmer . 
When last I heard of him , Ruthyn Pendragon , all ex-curate of the Church of England as he was , had not quite abandoned the clerical profession . 
He was still the Reverend Ruthyn Pendragon ; he was the most popular and the most prosperous preacher in London . 
He had founded a new sect , -- that of the Peculiar Christians , indeed -- of which he was a shining light and Professor . 
asked the tract at the Goldthorpe Station . 
