Henry Colburn , the young artist , was a tall , slender , well-formed young man of two-and-twenty . 
Young Henry was a poetical enthusiast -- old Tom was a practical woodman . 
said Henry , in a pleading tone . 
said Henry . 
promised Henry . 
said Henry . 
Thrusting his unfinished drawing into his pocket , Henry caught up his rifle , ready to assist another or defend himself , and then threw his eyes rapidly over the whole scene , but more searchingly in the direction from which the sound had reached him . 
His eyes rested upon rocks , hills , trees and bushes ; but the only living thing he saw was a large , black bird , of the vulture species , which was lazily flapping its way above the tops of the trees in the valley below . 
As there was nothing for him to do till he could hear or see more , he remained for some ten or fifteen minutes on the watch , wondering over the mystery , when suddenly the old hunter made his appearance , coming up the side of the hill opposite to that of his descent . 
cried the wondering Henry , running up to him . 
said Henry , glancing sharply around him , with a look that showed he was prepared for a startling narration -- for though not given to all the wild , ignorant superstitions of the time , he was in a condition to admit there might be strange things happen that could not be accounted for by human philosophy . 
Within the past year he had heard rough borderers , around their camp-fires , tell of a strange apparition , that had been seen in wild places , in the depth of the wilderness ; and though he had been far from crediting all they had said concerning the wonder , or drawing the same superstitious conclusions as themselves , yet he had not been so skeptical as to suppose it was all mere imagination because he had not seen it himself . 
He believed there had been something seen , bearing the human form , which had suddenly and mysteriously appeared and disappeared ; and now he had just had evidence , through his own sense of hearing , of some creature , with a voice like a woman 's , having been near him , and he was about to have the testimony of a friend , who had both seen and heard , added to all the rest . 
interrupted Henry . 
`` Not that I can perceive , '' smiled Henry . 
`` Tom , you go too far , '' said Henry , gravely . 
Henry made no immediate reply , and nothing more was said till Rough Tom had finished reloading his rifle . 
said Henry , at length . 
said Henry , half vexed and half amused at the whimsical superstitions of the other . 
rejoined Henry . 
laughed Henry . 
said Henry . 
`` I will , '' returned the other , bringing his piece to his shoulder as he spoke , `` ef only to show you it ar n't of no use . '' 
He pulled the trigger , and , to his great astonishment , a sharp report followed , and the bear dropped . 
Henry looked up . 
returned Henry , lifting his hat , with a graceful bow . 
While she was so engaged , Rough Tom drew Henry aside and conversed with him in low tones ; and Charles Hampton , with a dark frown on his brow , paced moodily to and fro , with his eyes fixed on the deck , as if brooding over the insult he had so recently received . 
`` You are named in the letter as Thomas Sturgess and Henry Colburn , and I am desired to put all confidence in you , and to consider myself completely under your charge ! '' 
said Henry Colburn , turning his gaze upon the fair girl with an admiring blush . 
It could not be otherwise than that the acquaintance of Henry and Isaline , begun and continued under the circumstances we have mentioned , should ripen into intimacy far more speedily than would have been the case in an ordinary state of affairs . 
Of the two , however , it may not be amiss to say that Henry was the most direct , earnest , singleminded and sincere . 
Of course there was no friendship , nor even showof friendship , between two such opposite natures , brought together under such circumstances , as Charles Hampton and Henry Colburn . 
exclaimed Isaline , who , with many others , including Hampton and Colburn , was standing on the deck : `` how I wish its bright feathers were mine ! '' 
As she spoke , there was another sharp crack -- this time from the rifle of Henry , who had seized his weapon and fired with as quick an aim as the other -- and the gay bird , checked suddenly in its flight by the swift messenger of death , dropped lead-like down upon the water . 
There was a light skiff fastened to the boat , and in less than a minute the lithe form of young Colburn was seen standing in this and using the paddle with the grace and skill of a French voyageur.Gliding round his prize , he seized and held it up in triumph , amid the plaudits of the spectators ; and almost the next minute he was back again upon the deck , and at the side of the flattered beauty . 
`` Permit me the honor , fair lady , '' he said , in a gay tone , `` of laying my beautiful trophy at your feet ! '' 
Henry flushed to the temples , and his clear blue eye had a peculiar gleam , as he rejoined : `` Miss Holcombe and all others will bear me witness , that I only robbed the bird of a life it was bearing away unharmed from the bullet of an uncertain marksman ! '' 
said Colburn . 
`` The angels above are not more innocent of any wrong intent than yourself , '' said Henry , `` and for one I am heartily ashamed of what has passed in your presence ! 
and with a low bow he turned on his heel and went below . 
This affair caused some excited discussion among the passengers -- a few , if only for the sake of obstinate argument , contending that Hampton was right -- but neither he , Colburn , nor Isaline exchanged another word with each other during the day . 
`` I 'm Jim Davis , one of the scouts , and the friend of Henry Colburn . '' 
`` I 'm to understand , then , that you wo n't fight Henry Colburn ? '' 
Thirty paces carried it to one of the other large boats , where Henry Colburn and his companions were awaiting the return of their messenger . 
`` He 's a coward , and wo n't fight ! '' 
`` I thought as much , '' said Henry . 
`` What 's his reason for refusing ? '' 
`` He puts on that he 's a gentleman , and says Harry must prove himself one before he 'll give him satisfaction ! '' 
`` One or two of the horses are his own , '' said Henry . 
Henry was within hearing of all this , but he made no reply , though his lips were observed to compress , and there was a peculiar gleam of his deep blue eye that boded no good to his deadly foe . 
Some distance back of these , just so that their figures began to grow shadowy , with the smoking , wavering flames between them , they stationed Hampton and Colburn . 
Both of the young men were quick and deadly marksmen ; and a duel by daylight , with rifles , would give neither a chance for his life ; but the flickering fire-light would be likely to render the momentary aim of each uncertain . 
He turned and dashed away through the forest , and the others followed him , all save Hampton and Colburn , who still remained on the ground where their seconds had placed them . 
At that instant Henry chanced to move his head , and the ball grazed his cheek . 
he cried ; `` it is my turn , now ! '' 
As he fled , Henry saw some dark object , in size and form not unlike a human being , leap down from a tree near him , and dart away after him , uttering a wild shriek , similar to that which had so terrified his companions . 
The next minute he heard the yell of Hampton , succeeded by a shriek of his mysterious pursuer . 
These sounds were several times repeated , and gradually died away in the far distance ; and then Henry found himself all alone in the deep , gloomy forest , with the two flickering fire-lights causing strange , fantastic shadows to dance all around him . 
A feeling of awe and dread now took possession of him , and he also turned and fled from the eventful scene . 
WHEN Henry reached the bank of the river , he found , to his surprise and somewhat to his dismay , that he was not at the place where he had come ashore ; but whether he was now above or below the proper point , he could not tell , till he chanced to recollect the close-wooded hill on the other headland , and then he knew he had gone up the stream instead of down . 
As we have said , the night was very dark ; and while within the forest , where nothing could be seen , it was so much more a matter of chance than calculation which had brought him to the river at all , that he felt very thankful to find he had not gone further astray and become completely lost . 
He immediately set out to pick his way downward along the bank ; and though he made what haste he could , it took him a full hour to reach the place of landing . 
No boat of course was there , for his really frightened companions had hurried aboard the larger boats with them , and were now congratulating themselves that they had escaped with their lives from the dreadful Unknown of the forest . 
shouted Henry . 
`` It is me -- Henry Colburn . '' 
cried Henry , half amused and half vexed at the superstitious fears of one of the bravest scouts and hunters of the borders . 
`` It sounds powerful like him , '' he heard Tom say to one of his companions , `` and I 've a notion to risk it . '' 
cried Henry . 
Henry had been so long accustomed to the awful darkness of the woods , that he was barely able to see it floating up to the bank , like an indistinct shadow , and he hastened to meet it . 
he queried , as he stepped into it . 
`` It was fearful , '' returned Henry , shuddering at the thought of all he had heard , seen , and passed through , `` and when I get aboard the larger boat I will tell you all about it . '' 
His companions greeted him as one just rescued from a fate worse than death , and a dozen eager questions were pressed upon him in a breath . 
He related all that had occurred after they left him , up to the time of his rejoining them . 
`` So you said , '' observed Henry , `` when you saw the Thing before ; but you see we are both alive yet , and nothing serious has come of it so far . '' 
laughed Henry . 
To the great delight of his companions , Henry made a sketch of the scene in the forest , at the moment when the strange Unknown was in the act of leaping down from the tree in pursuit of Hampton . 
`` I hardly pretend to conjecture , '' replied Henry . 
From her words and manner , Henry was at a loss to know in what degree of estimation his rival was held by Isaline . 
said Isaline to Henry , with some warmth . 
The color mounted to the temples of Henry , and he replied , with a slight bow : `` At least , Miss Holcombe , your suggestion shall not be lost one me ! '' 
she quickly cried , as he turned to leave her . 
he answered , with a look of dignified reproach . 
`` No , '' said Henry , respectfully but firmly , `` I can not change my purpose now , but shall make an effort to save this man , let the consequences be what they may ! '' 
When they learned what he was about to do , the companions of the young artist remonstrated with him against his rash design -- and Rough Tom even called him a fool for thinking of such a thing -- but he calmly replied that there might be no danger whatever , the man 's story might be true , and at least his conscience would not be easy until he should have made an effort to save him . 
`` Nay , '' said Henry , `` there is no need of two to do the work of one . 
Henry made no further objection , and the two were soon afloat in the skiff and striking off for the Ohio shore . 
returned Henry , lifting his hat and waving her an adieu . 
As the little boat gradually increased the distance between it and the larger one , and glided off lightly toward the northern shore , every eye was fixed upon it with that intensity of feeling which we never fail to experience when we see a human being perilling his life in the cause of humanity . 
Colburn and Davis themselves seemed far from being satisfied that all was right -- for , after drawing near the point , they checked their advance , and first turned up the stream and then down , and appeared to reconnoitre the shore with great keenness and care . 
At this critical moment of intense expectation -- a moment that seemed so fraught with deliverance or danger -- several light puffs of smoke were seen issuing from the thicket , the reports of several muskets were heard blending into one heavy roar , and both Colburn and Davis were observed to sink down in their little craft , as if riddled with bullets . 
cried Tom , throwing his arms around Henry and giving him a hug that would have done justice to a respectable bear . 
`` Heaven has been kind to me beyond my deserts , '' replied Henry , `` in delivering me unharmed from such perils ; but my brave comrade here did not meet with the same good fortune , for he has been struck twice . '' 
replied Davis , as he attempted to spring up from the smaller boat into the larger one . 
But though his words were lightly and cheerily spoken , his face was very pale , and a minute after he fell swooning into the arms of one of his comrades . 
His wounds , though serious , were not necessarily mortal ; but he had lost much blood , and a deathlike faintness followed close on his delivery . 
cried Isaline , as she hurriedly advanced to Henry and grasped both his hands with hers . 
answered Henry , with a flush of pride and satisfaction . 
rejoined Henry , in a low , earnest tone , gazing fondly into her lovely face and sympathizing eyes ; `` Heaven has already blessed me , in preserving my life and giving me the kind approval of those I so highly esteem . '' 
Isaline did not reply to this , but her color deepened and her eyes sought the ground . 
A brief silence followed ; and then she anxiously inquired if there was not danger still from the Indians that had so villainously unmasked themselves . 
`` I think not , '' answered Henry , reflectively . 
returned Henry ; `` and I know for a truth there are white men among the Indians who are even more cruel and blood-thirsty than the natives of the forest ! 
`` And yet , '' she said , `` we have a long stretch of almost unsettled wilderness to pass through to reach our destination . '' 
`` But there will be many strong arms and vigilant eyes to guard you from harm , '' replied Henry . 
returned Henry . 
sighed Isaline ; `` but you must promise me that Henry Colburn will do no more rash deeds ! '' 
Some blamed and many praised her , and Henry thought he never saw her appear more lovely and interesting . 
Though Henry had joined the scouts and acted with them in perfect harmony , he had never at any time considered himself bound to continue in their company , or in the capacity assumed , one moment longer than might suit his inclination ; his birth and education had placed him in the social scale far above them , and he knew he could take another position whenever he should choose ; but while he was with them , he felt it to be his duty to perform his part with the rest ; and therefore , on the present journey , though it would have given him more pleasure to have remained by the side of Isaline , as a friend and fellow traveller , he neglected no task that the others performed , and was sometimes in the advance and sometimes in the rear , sometimes hunting and sometimes standing guard . 
In the afternoon of the third day , however , finding that everything was going well , and that a few hours leisure for himself would impose no extra labor upon any of the rest , Henry mounted his horse , resolved upon having some pleasant recreation . 
Riding up to the side of the fair maiden , who had of late occupied so much of his thoughts , he said , in a light , gay tone : `` There , Miss Isaline , congratulate me that at last I am blessed with time enough to draw a long breath and inquire after the health and comfort of the lady it is both my duty and pleasure to serve . '' 
`` In truth I believe it is even so , '' laughed Henry . 
`` And the last is always something to be thankful for in the wilderness , '' returned Henry . 
he seriously added ; `` and once on the other side of the Licking , which we are now approaching , I shall feel we are beginning to be pretty safe . 
`` I believe I left the romantic region entirely heart-whole , '' rejoined Henry , looking straight into the bright , merry eyes of his fair companion ; `` but whether I shall return to it in the same condition is something more questionable . '' 
It was Henry 's turn to color , now ; but he rejoined , in a light , easy tone , though it possibly cost him an effort : `` Nothing seems more natural , Miss Holcombe , than that we should dream of those who are deep in our regard . '' 
answered Henry , with a slight curl of the lip and sharp compression of the teeth . 
Henry looked at her , but did not reply to the question . 
he asked . 
inquired Henry . 
laughed Henry . 
said Henry , with a slight flush . 
replied Henry . 
Turning to her servants , who were only a few paces behind , Isaline bade them keep along with the train ; and merely adding that she would rejoin them shortly , she gave her high-spirited palfrey a light touch with her riding whip , and set off at a brisk canter through the wood -- Henry instantly following and speedily overtaking her . 
Atthe moment when Henry and Isaline turned aside to visit the Indian mound , the train , of which they formed a part , was slowly , carelessly , and irregularly pursuing its way over the then beaten route between Limestone and Lexington . 
Meantime Henry and Isaline , with more life and spirit than all the rest put together , were speeding away toward one of the curiosities of the wilderness , and it was evident that from some cause they felt little of heat or fatigue . 
returned Henry . 
said Henry , dismounting as he spoke and assisting his companion to do the same . 
It was not easy to ascend , even on foot -- for the sides had an angle of inclination like an old-fashioned house-roof -- but by taking hold of the grass , to keep from slipping backward , Henry and Isaline soon managed to reach the top , from which they had a fine view of the country round about . 
`` Yonder , '' replied Henry , pointing in a southwesterly direction , `` where you see that opening between the hills . 
`` Yes , '' replied Henry , `` a terribly disastrous battle for the borderers -- one that nearly cost them the possession of the country ! 
`` So far as I can understand , not even our present race of Indians knows anything of them , '' replied Henry . 
`` If I had a spade with me , it might be the work of only a few minutes , '' answered Henry ; `` and even as it is , I think with the use of my knife I can soon get hold of something . '' 
said Henry , glancing at the wood through which the train appeared to be moving at a snail-like pace . 
`` They would hardly do that unless we were to be absent till after dark , '' returned Henry , `` and we will overtake them long before then , to say the worst . 
he added , pointing her to a very comfortable seat . 
`` Sometimes , '' pursued Henry , `` there are marks about these mounds which show us how to arrive soonest at the treasures we seek , and I will endeavor to find one of these . '' 
He forthwith began his search . 
Going down the northern side , looking carefully at every step , he at length exclaimed : `` I think I have found one of the places -- a small , flat stone , buried under the grass , and nearly concealed by the earth itself . 
He took out his knife , got down on his knees , and began to clear the dirt off from the stone . 
This done , he tried to raise it , but found he could not stir it . 
He again spoke to Isaline , told her of his discovery , and she went down to look at it . 
said Henry . 
As Isaline made no further objections , though she glanced around her with a greater feeling of uneasiness than she would have cared to express , Henry began to dig away the earth from around the stone with his knife and hands . 
He worked hard and fast , but his progress did not keep pace with his expectation and desire . 
Five , ten , fifteen minutes slipped away ; and though he had by that time cleared the dirt away from the sides of the stone to the depth of several inches , yet he had not come to the bottom of it and could not move it . 
He was still at work , and his fair companion was glancing around her with an increased feeling of uneasiness that amounted to something like fear , when suddenly both were startled by the sullen boom of distant thunder . 
cried Henry , catching the painful expression of her features and noting her nervous agitation . 
`` It often affects me thus when it takes me so much by surprise , '' she answered , in a low , faint tone , as she seated herself on the ground , apparently too weak to stand . 
he replied . 
As he spoke there came another boom , and on the heels of it a third , with a longer and heavier rumble . 
Isaline covered her face with her hands , and uttered a low , startled moan , which Henry did not hear , for he was in the act of darting around the hill to get a view of the approaching storm , his late position having been about half-way between the bottom and top of the mound and too much on the eastern side to permit of his seeing the western horizon . 
A great change had taken place since he had last looked in this direction . 
The whirling of the clouds indicated a good deal of wind , and the advance of the storm was so swift , that even while he was calculating the time it would take for it to reach the place where he stood , he beheld the dark vapors shoot athwart the bright face of the sun , casting a gloomy shadow over the whole scene . 
For himself Henry feared nothing ; to him this war of the elements was a sublime beauty and fascination ; and had he been alone , he would have remained and gazed at the storm with a kind of poetical rapture ; but he remembered his fair companion , now made timid even to terror through some unexplainable action of the electrical forces upon her nervous organization , and he hastened back to her side . 
He found her sitting as we have described , with her face buried in her hands , rocking herself to and fro and moaning . 
`` The storm is nearer than I thought , Miss Isaline , '' he said , with hurried anxiety , `` and unless we set out immediately , I fear it will reach us before we can possibly rejoin our companions . '' 
cried Isaline , starting to her feet and finding herself so weak as to require his support to keep her from staggering , if not falling . 
`` You think me a foolish coward , I know , '' she added , as she hurried down toward the horses , `` but I can not help my feelings . 
returned Henry . 
cried Isaline , covering her eyes , as a bright bolt shot from heaven to earth , and was shortly followed by a bursting roar . 
This even made Henry start , as well as his companion , with a thrill akin to fear , and instinctively his hand clutched the haft of his knife , the only weapon he now had with him . 
The horses too at the same instant threw up their heads and glared around them , with snorts of terror ; and then , before Henry , who abruptly left his companion and darted forward for the purpose , could reach and grasp their bridles , they threw out their heels wildly and dashed away like the wind . 
murmured Isaline , clasping her hands , with a feeling and look of absolute despair . 
Fora few moments Henry stood as one petrified . 
Accustomed as he was to act instantaneously in critical cases , he now halted in a state of uncertainty , if not bewilderment . 
His first impulse was to spring after the horses , in the hope that they might not run far ; but in the same moment he bethought him that he would thus be leaving Isaline all alone , and the idea was abandoned at once . 
Hastening back to her side , he threw his arm around her slender , trembling form , and , in a low , tender tone , for the first time since their acquaintance dropping all formality , he said : `` Isaline , do not be alarmed ! 
She leaned heavily against him , as if mutely asking protection ; and there , alone in the wilderness , almost defenceless , he experienced a thrill of happiness he had never felt before . 
`` Oh , Henry ! '' 
said Henry , with a quick , anxious glance around him . 
When at last Henry and Isaline found themselves in a condition to look about them , they were indeed in a pitiable plight . 
`` Thank God , '' said Henry , `` our lives have been preserved through this awful tempest , the like of which I never saw before ! 
`` Yes , Henry , '' replied Isaline , looking up with a face into which the color was beginning to return , `` I am stronger than I was -- much stronger . 
said Henry , soothingly . 
She gave him her hand , and they walked through the water that already covered the space between the embankment and mound ; but when they began the ascent of the steep and slippery acclivity , she required the support of his arm , and it was only after much labor , difficulty and delay that they were able to reach the summit at all . 
Had Henry succeeded in catching the horses and mounting himself and companion , it is more than probable their lives would have been destroyed , as they would have taken just the course to have been caught by the tornado in the forest , and this they now comprehended with such feelings of gratitude for their preservation as belonged to their noble natures . 
`` It is often thus , '' said Henry , solemnly , `` that Providence saves us in spite of ourselves ; and in the mysterious workings of Heaven we sometimes find good springing out of what we had thought to be evil . 
But what of our companions , Henry ? 
said Henry , in some alarm . 
and he took off his hunting-frock and wrapped it around her shoulders . 
he added , using a little playful force to keep it round her shoulders . 
returned Henry , demurely . 
The oddity of the reply and the look that accompanied it , drew a smile from Isaline , and she made no further resistance or objection . 
she said , surveying the dismal scene before her ; `` how shall we ever get away from here ? '' 
`` It will not rain always , '' returned Henry ; `` even in Noah 's time it stopped after forty days and nights ; and I feel almost certain this deluge will not last half as long as that one did ! '' 
`` Unless destroyed by the tornado , I think they will be found , but not soon enough perhaps to serve our present need , '' returned Henry . 
Henry took one more survey of the dreary scene , and suddenly exclaimed , pointing to the northward : `` Ha ! 
cried Isaline , clapping her hands with delight ; `` our horses ! 
said Henry . 
`` At all events , Henry , let us make the trial ! '' 
`` I hardly know , '' returned Henry , hesitating , `` that it will be prudent for us to go after the horses ! 
answered Henry . 
As Henry had foreseen , they could not cross this , but would have to go around it ; and as the fallen forest came up close to its margin , there was no other way than to continue to push over and through the matted trees as they had been doing . 
returned Henry , with an uneasy look . 
at last exclaimed Henry , coming to a stop ; `` you are being all tired out , dear Isaline , and no good accomplished ! 
returned Henry , anxiously . 
Henry started , and turned toward her a look expressive of suspicion and alarm . 
`` God forbid , '' he said , `` that there should be enemies abroad in the wilderness here , and we in such a defenceless condition ! 
`` What is it , Henry ? '' 
Henry , supporting his fair companion in the manner stated , took the backward course along the base of the ridge so oftened mentioned , in order to go around the marsh and gain the fallen timbers , in which he hoped to find a place to secrete Isaline and himself from savage eyes , till the coming darkness -- now no longer dreaded , but looked forward to with hope -- should shut in the scene of danger and desolation . 
Their course had been chosen by impulse and not calculation , or they would have taken the opposite one -- for a moment of calm consideration would have shown Henry how much the danger would be increased in this direction -- since , if the savages were on their trail , they would unerringly be led to this side of the ridge , at a point not far beyond that at which they were now aiming , and with the chances of discovering them before they could possibly reach it . 
Fortunately dense coverts were now not difficult to find -- for though the wood had been a comparatively open one -- that is , in a great measure , clear of under-brush -- the falling of the trees , one over the other , with their thick branches matted in together , in a perfect network of limbs and leaves and vines , afforded such places at every few steps ; and rather seeking huge trunks to crawl under than places to stand upright , Henry and Isaline crept back for a hundred yards or so from the edge of this wild scene of destruction , and at last came to a full stop among the tangled boughs of a gigantic oak . 
replied Henry ; `` but I thought we might venture to rest here a few minutes and then resume our flight . '' 
rejoined Henry . 
Henry was about to make a reply , when both were suddenly and terribly startled by several short , sharp Indian yells . 
`` Not yet , '' replied Henry ; `` but undoubtedly our last trail is , and we must make a rapid flight to escape these human bloodhounds ! 
He instantly set forward , pressing through the branches of the oak , and then picking his way under the trunks of the trees where the gloom of the scene was deepest . 
At first Henry thought they were discovered , and that all hope was over ; but on looking around and seeing no living thing , he took heart , suspecting the yells might have been for intimidation , or some other than the cause he feared ; and throwing an arm around Isaline to support her , he plunged at once into the bushy thicket and pressed forward with all the speed he could . 
said Henry , pointing to it ; `` may we not draw an augury of hope ? '' 
He had scarcely spoken , when , back some distance behind them , was heard a loud rustling of the bushes , as if some heavy body was swiftly pressing through the thicket ; and with a low , startled cry , Isaline impulsively clung to him as if for protection . 
The sound , whatever it was , drew nearer and nearer , and even Henry turned pale as he glanced up the little ridge in fearful expectation . 
said Henry ; `` I fear the Indians are not far behind ! 
Supporting her as before , he hurried with her into the stream , far enough to conceal their footprints , and then both went up against the current as fast as could be done without the noise of splashing the water . 
Every moment now was full of the most intense anxiety , for Henry felt that their safety hung on the next few minutes . 
Two hundred yards up the stream was a sharp bend , where the roaring waters came dashing around the point of a huge rock , and Henry fixed his hope on that and strained every nerve to reach it . 
he said encouragingly to his half-fainting companion ; `` if we can only turn yonder rock before the savages discover us , I think we shall be safe for the night . 
urged Henry : `` only one minute more and we shall be saved ! '' 
And then to himself he added : `` Gracious Heaven ! 
Oh , Henry , '' gasped Isaline , `` do you think they have seen us ? '' 
`` Oh , Isaline , '' whispered Henry , for he dared not speak aloud with such keen ears listening , `` would to God it were in my power to make you more comfortable , even by so little a matter as food and fire ! 
`` Oh , no , '' he answered , `` for I am a strong man , used to this wild , rough life ; and that , so to speak , which might scarcely bend me , would destroy you ! '' 
he sighed ; `` and Heaven only knows what the trial will be ! 
But what is to be done now , Henry ? 
`` Oh , Isaline , '' said Henry , with emotions that rendered his words almost inarticulate , `` if you had a world to offer in exchange for what you have named , I would not accept it ! '' 
There was more that his heart prompted him to say -- more that would have brought the warm blood to her cheeks and temples -- but he would not permit his lips to speak it then and there ; he felt it was not a proper time and place ; it seemed to his generous nature as if it would be taking unfair advantage of circumstances that would not allow her perfect freedom of reply ; and he remained silent . 
In the mind of Henry there was a sweet , bright image , that was more to him than all the rest he had ever seen and known ; and the soul of Isaline was filled with emotions she would not have cared to reveal . 
`` If you are able to continue the journey , dear Isaline , it is time we were leaving this place , '' whispered Henry . 
she returned , cautiously rising to her feet ; `` let us leave here , Henry -- let us leave here at once ! '' 
`` Follow me , then , '' he rejoined , also rising and beginning to part the bushes , `` and be very careful not to make the slightest sound , for undoubtedly our savage enemies are near us . '' 
He had scarcely advanced a dozen paces , when both were thrilled with horror at a wild , prolonged , quavering sheriek , that echoed and re-echoed far away among the gloomy hills ! 
whispered the terrified Isaline , convulsively clutching the arm of Henry . 
`` It is the same sound I have heard before , '' he answered , with an involuntary shudder -- `` the Phantom -- the Demon -- the dread Unknown of the forest -- God only knows what ! '' 
rejoined Henry . 
`` To my mind , '' returned Henry , `` there is no connection between the prediction and the facts . 
Slowly , cautiously , and almost noiselessly , Henry again parted the bushes and moved through them , holding one little trembling hand of Isaline in his -- leading her forward through the darkness , with the fond hope that he might ever so continue to lead her through the journey of life . 
Having at last cleared the thicket , without anything further to alarm them , they ascended , with great caution , a steep , rocky ridge , with a few bushes growing here and there , and occasionally a small tree , which evidently had not felt the force of the tornado , and which led Henry to believe they had now got clear of the track of devastation . 
To the northward the hill they were on rose still higher and obstructed a view of the country in that direction ; but as the distance was short to the summit of this elevation , Henry proposed they should go to the top and take a full survey of the landscape , saying it was possible they might discover the camp-fire of their enemies , which , under the circumstances , was a matter of great importance , as it would enable them to shape their course so as to avoid an accidental contact . 
`` There they are , '' he whispered ; `` and if only you were in a place of safety , and my friend Tom and a few of his brave companions were with me , nothing would suit me better than to go down and take them by surprise . '' 
`` Yes , '' rejoined Henry , `` let us go at once . 
`` I have thought of that , '' said Henry ; `` and as we can not now be far from the Licking River , it will perhaps be best to go on till we come to that , and then it will be an easy matter to keep along its right bank to the Blue Lick ford , where our companions , if they have met with no disaster , are probably now encamped . '' 
`` I have little fear of that , '' replied Henry ; `` for , unless abroad in greater force than I think , they would hardly venture against so many deadly rifles . 
Henry and Isaline now set forward together , to make their way , as best they could in the darkness to the Licking River . 
At last they came to a steeper and higher hill than any they had before ascended , and Henry said : `` From the best calculation I have been able to make , dear Isaline , we are now but a little way from the Licking River -- for I feel almost certain it flows through the valley on the other side of this acclivity . '' 
she inquired , in a feeble and dejected tone . 
`` I hardly dare guess , '' he replied , in a manner that expressed much uneasiness and anxiety ; `` but I fear it is much too far for you to walk there to-night ; for we have been much longer in getting here than I expected , and I know you must be nearly worn out . 
`` It is absolutely necessary for you to have rest , '' said Henry , `` or you will be overdone ; but the night air is cool , and to sit down in your wet garments I am afraid will do you great injury . 
`` But how shall we cross the river , Henry ? '' 
and before we swim it , it may be as well to find it , '' said Henry , with a light laugh -- not because he felt in a light or merry mood , but that he might seem so to his companion , in order to raise her spirits . 
said Henry . 
`` If I am not mistaken in the character of the country , '' said Henry , `` we shall , by keeping along on this ridge of hills , soon come to a ledge of rocks , where we can find some secure retreat -- some little cave , perhaps , in which we can kindle a fire and get some rest . 
`` I will be advised by you , Henry , '' she answered . 
`` But you need sleep as well as myself , Henry ! '' 
`` And I can get what I need , and guard our camp also , '' he replied , `` for I have been so long used to this wild , watchful life , that I can sleep sitting , or even standing , and the least sound will wake me . '' 
responded Henry . 
Isaline trembled with fear , and almost convulsively clutched her companion . 
said Henry ; `` it is only a wolf or two , and they will not venture to attack so formidable a creature as man at this season of the year . '' 
gasped Isaline , again clutching her companion . 
he said , throwing his left arm around her and drawing his knife with his right hand . 
These sudden alarms , in connection with what had gone before , made Isaline so weak that she would have been unable to proceed but for the support of her companion . 
Soon after this they reached a point where the trees were more dwarfed , the bushes somewhat thinner , and the soil more rocky ; and a few hundred yards further on they came to a ledge , similar to what Henry had pictured in his mind . 
`` Here , '' he said , `` I feel almost certain we shall find a place where we can pass the night in safety . '' 
The rocks were of all sizes and shapes , and our two friends began to move in among them with greater caution ; Henry making the best exploration he could in the darkness for some cave-like opening , or cave itself , where his fair companion could be both sheltered and concealed . 
groaned Isaline , ready to sink with dismay -- for both she and Henry believed it was the voice of a savage that had addressed them . 
Withhis knife still in his hand , and one arm supporting Isaline , for a few moments Henry stood irresolute , undecided whether to yield himself a peaceable prisoner , or defend himself till overpowered or cut down , or attempt another escape in the darkness . 
Though he could see nothing of the owner of the voice , he doubted not that both himself and companion had been seen by the speaker , and it might be that a deadly rifle was at that very instant bearing upon them . 
`` We are two quiet persons who have lost our way in the forest , '' answered Henry , now fully decided to surrender without resistance . 
Henry reasserted , in the most simple language he could frame , that his only weapon was a knife , which he would yield up to his , the stranger 's , demand . 
`` We will wait for you , '' returned Henry ; and added , in a lower tone : `` Because there seems to be no alternative . '' 
There was a noise as of some one cautiously moving up from the black pit , but it was more than a minute before even so much as the shadow of a figure became visible to the strained eyes of Henry and Isaline . 
First a head dimly appeared , slowly emerging out of the black gloom , and then a body gradually followed ; but whether or not the dread form advancing upon them was that of a fierce savage in his war paint , they could not tell . 
This shadowy figure continued to approach , slowly and cautiously ; and when quite near , Henry perceived that a rifle was held before it in such a position that it could be discharged at any object in an instant . 
said Henry ; `` we yield ourselves prisoners at once . '' 
Henry understood this to mean that he must throw down his weapons ; and casting his knife on the ground , under the belief that it could avail him nothing against the rifle of the unknown , he held up both hands , with the open palms outward . 
It was light enough to disclose the general outline of the lineaments at a distance of six or eight inches , and Henry was surprised to see , instead of a savage , the face of a white man . 
said Henry , inquiringly . 
cried Henry , with an internal relief that his words only faintly expressed . 
returned the other , picking up and examining the knife which Henry had thrown down . 
inquired Henry . 
he replied , tapping his breast . 
asked the white Indian , pointing to his mouth and addressing Isaline . 
she answered . 
he said , and at once began to move down the hill . 
Both Henry and Isaline followed , winding down among the rocks and through the bushes for several minutes , till at last the stranger opened the door into some kind of a hovel , and in his gruff way bade them enter . 
A large piece of fresh venison was depending from the antlers of a stag in one corner ; and this Methoto immediately took down and laid on the bench before his guests , at the same time returning Henry his knife and making signs that he was to cut off what he needed for himself and companion . 
He then set about kindling a fire ; and Henry , with a feeling of cheerfulness he had not experienced for many a long hour , said to Isaline : `` Our seemingly worst disasters are , by the goodness of Providence , turned into blessings ! '' 
she replied , with tearful eyes . 
As before remarked , he was dressed altogether in skins , with the hairy side out , and looked almost as much like a beast as a human being . 
A skin , rudely sewed together at the back , with two arm-holes through it , covered his body , and was belted around his waist , and reached down nearly to his kness , where it was met by leggins of the same kind ; but his arms were bare , and , from long exposure to the weather , had become of a dirty tan-color . 
He had put aside his rifle and powder horn ; but in his belt , ready to his hand , were a tomahawk and hunting knife . 
About the face he was not particularly ill-looking , though evidently with a nature somewhat brutalized by the life he had lived . 
His eyes were of a cold , grayish hue , and set wide apart , with heavy , shaggy brows meeting over a short , flat nose . 
His mouth -- a feature in which so much of character is usually denoted -- was large and sensual -- though the peculiar stare of the eyes , and general immobility of the whole countenance , indicated a dull , sluggish , phlegmatic temperament . 
Without being instinctively wicked or cruel , you could see he was a man to be feared whenever his worst passions should be aroused . 
In stature he was short , but his frame was heavily built , and he evidently possessed great strength . 
He appeared to be of German extraction and quite young , or at least under five-and-twenty years of age . 
It was not easy to converse with this strange being , owing to his limited use and understanding of the English tongue ; but Henry managed , by a series of simple questions , to ascertain that he did not know his own name , parentage , or place of nativity -- that he had been captured by the Indians when a mere child , if not an infant , and been adopted and brought up by his captor , who was the only father of whom he had any knowledge . 
A year or two before the date of our story , he and his Indian father , and two Indian brothers , had crossed the Ohio and entered Kentucky , with the view of getting a few white scalps , stealing some horses , and carrying off what plunder they could . 
He made Henry understand that the girl they had killed was in his eyes very handsome , and that he had felt so badly about what had been done , that he had at once resolved to leave the Indians and return to his own race . 
He had soon found an opportunity . 
After they had plundered the house of such things as they could carry with them , and had fired it , they had started on to hunt up new victims ; but when they had got well into the forest , again , he had given the others the slip , and had made his way to a neighboring station , where , in the best manner he could , he had disclosed the startling facts . 
A number of the garrison had at once set off in pursuit of the savages , taking him along as guide . 
He had gone unwillingly , for the idea of seeing his friends destroyed , -LRB- and , whatever their deeds , they had ever been friends to him , -RRB- had been a terrible one ; but he had been told that a refusal to comply with their commands would subject him to instant death . 
The result of the whole affair was , that the Indians had been followed , found , and slain ; and that , after their death , he had himself narrowly escaped being hung by the infuriated whites . 
Not wishing to return to the Indians , and finding nothing congenial among those of his own race , he had wandered about in the depths of the forest for a time , and had finally fixed his abode in the solitary place where he now was , and where his hovel had been built by himself without assistance from any one . 
In fact he was almost certain it had never been seen before by other eyes , for our friends were the first guests that had ever entered it . 
He now lived a wild , solitary life , his time being chiefly employed in hunting , fishing , and raising a small patch of corn on an opening about a mile from his dwelling . 
His shanty was cleverly concealed among rocks and bushes on the bank of the Licking . 
He owned a canoe , which he had fashioned himself , after the manner of the Indians , from the bark of a tree and the skin of a deer , and this was so light that he could put it on his shoulder and carry it a mile without stopping to rest . 
He held no communication with his fellow-beings except when compelled by necessity to visit some station for the purpose of exchanging his skins for powder , lead , fish-hooks , and such things as he could not do without , and then he only stayed barely long enough to transact his business , and was always glad to get safely back to his hermit-like home . 
Such , in brief , was the story and life of this strange being , which Henry drew from him , little by little , while occupied in preparing something for his fair companion and himself to eat . 
The fire itself was a very cheerful thing to see and feel after such a gloomy drenching ; and as Isaline sat on the bench drawn up before it , and warmed herself and dried her wet garments , she thought she could not be too thankful to that kind Providence which had not only preserved her through the most fearful perils , but had led her steps to a place of such comparative comfort . 
Henry toasted several slices of the venison , and the host brought forward a horn-cup filled with salt , and a hard cake , made of pounded corn mixed with water and baked in the ashes . 
Quick as lightning Henry sprung forward to snatch Isaline from the impending blow , and at the same instant the white Indian discovered his mistake and cast his weapon from him , with an exclamation that showed he condemned his own foolish act . 
he said , by way of explanation . 
Reassured by his words and manner , Isaline , though still somewhat nervous from her sudden fright , again approached him , but more timidly , and , holding out her hand , said : `` I want to thank you , Methoto , for all your kindness to us ! '' 
The white savage took the proffered hand in one of his , and then she regretted she had so particularly called his attention to herself , for he fixed his cold , gray eyes upon her , with a look that expressed more admiration than she wished to excite . 
he said . 
He stared at her , with a look that made her afraid ; and when she would have withdrawn her hand and shrunk away , he would not let her go . 
he asked . 
she answered , changing color . 
he said , moving his other arm majestically , and casting his eyes around him , as if to show that in that single word he comprehended his entire possessions . 
This was certainly a rather sudden and novel mode of courtship , and , under different circumstances , might have amused both Isaline and Henry ; but now it only excited a feeling of annoyance , allied to fear -- for there was no telling to what extremes such a strange being might be carried by his whims and passions . 
Isaline , frightened and embarrassed , glanced appealingly at Henry , who said , very quietly , but firmly : `` Squaw girl is too young to be Methoto 's wife now . '' 
Instantly the cold , gray eyes of the host were turned and fastened searchingly upon him . 
he said . 
`` She is going home to her father , '' returned Henry , in the same quiet tone , `` and will not be anybody 's wife at present . '' 
Methoto looked at him steadily for some moments , then turned and stared at Isaline till her eyes fell , and then let go of her hand and drew a deep sigh . 
Now really afraid of him , Isaline drew as far back as she could and out of the light of the fire . 
Isaline now whispered to Henry . 
smiled Henry . 
`` But I will do as you think best , Henry -- I will put my whole trust in you . '' 
`` The squaw girl is very tired and would like a place to sleep for the night , '' said Henry , pointing to Isaline , and accompanying his words with such signs as made their meaning perfectly clear . 
He then went to the corner where his own couch of skins was spread , and , selecting three of the best , one of bear and two of deer , returned and laid them carefully down before the fire , with the remark : `` Much wet -- fire heap good ! '' 
He then went out and brought in some more wood , with which he started the blaze afresh ; after which he barred his door , -LRB- there appeared to be no windows , -RRB- handed Henry a couple of skins for his own use , and , with merely a grunt for a good night , threw himself down on his own rude bed , and seemed immediately to fall asleep . 
`` There , '' said Henry to Isaline , in a low tone , `` you see our host sets us an example of confidence , by putting himself completely in our power ; and now that you have nothing to fear , I trust you will be able to get a refreshing sleep . '' 
`` But have we nothing to fear , Henry ? '' 
`` Whether real or false , '' answered Henry , who had his own suspicions , `` it will make no difference in my vigilance , dear Isaline ; and as you have promised to put faith in and be guided by me , I must now insist upon your lying down and getting what rest you can ! '' 
Isaline , without further demur , complied with his request ; and with the bear-skin spread on the ground , and the two deer-skins for a pillow , she laid herself down before the fire , which , except for her still wet clothes , would have rendered the place uncomfortably warm for her without other covering , but which , under the circumstances , produced a very pleasurable sensation . 
Not to seem to be on the watch , Henry also cast himself down between the host and herself , with his face turned toward the former , so that every movement could be seen , firmly resolved not to close his eyes for a single moment throughout the night . 
Such was the case with Henry Colburn . 
For the first hour or so he easily kept awake , thinking over the strange and wonderful events of the day , and watching the uncouth and fantastic shadows that the flickering fire-light caused to dance on the ceiling and walls of that old hovel , and which gradually changed to darker and more grotesque shapes along with a deeper surrounding gloom , as the blaze became gradually weaker and weaker , till they finally disappeared as the last flame expired over the glowing embers . 
There was more wood on the hearth ; but the night was far from being cold , and the room was already uncomfortably warm , and so Henry resolved to only now and then put on a small stick , not for heat , but merely for the purpose of keeping the place from settling into a deep and fearful darkness . 
Presently the grim , shadowy figure came slowly and stealthily toward him ; and with a motion imperceptible in the deep gloom , Henry drew his knife from its sheath and quietly prepared himself for a tiger-like spring . 
When within a few feet of him , Henry could see that it was indeed his rifle which he had in his hand ; and the fear that he really intended to use it , made him secretly tremble , brave though he was ; but now , to his great relief , the host stopped and rested the weapon against the wall , and then went quietly to a corner of the hearth and sat down , doubling his legs under him , in Turkish fashion , as he had done once or twice before that evening , and seemed to become absorbed in looking at the dying embers . 
`` Can it be that I have mistaken him ? '' 
But then why did he have his rifle in his hand ? 
and why did he bring it forward and place it so near him ? 
Perhaps he had a wicked design , and has changed it ! 
or it may be he still retains it , but is resolved upon a little delay in its execution ! '' 
Like a beast upon its prey , ready for the fatal spring , Henry kept his eyes riveted upon Methoto . 
The latter sat there for nearly an hour , silent and motionless , and then got up quietly , and stealthily went back to his pallet of skins , leaving his rifle standing against the wall . 
`` He is a strange , eccentric being , and perhaps I have suspected him without just cause ! '' 
thought Henry . 
Henry would have got up and kindled more , but Isaline appeared to be sleeping very sweetly , and he was afraid of waking her . 
Fortunately she had known nothing of his suspicions and fears . 
When the first streak of day began to show through here and there a crevice of the hut , Henry arose , Isaline awoke , and Methoto started up at the same time . 
At that moment Henry could easily have seized the rifle of his host ; and reflecting how comparatively helpless was the condition of himself and companion , he was tempted to do so , and make both secure ; but there was something in the act that did not accord with his open , generous nature ; and , after the kind hospitality he had received , he did not feel justified in thus showing his suspicion . 
Giving himself a shake , like a wild beast rising from his lair , Methoto came forward , took up his rifle , opened the pan , to see that the priming was all right , and then went back and set it up in a corner ; and Henry , who watched him closely all the time , was glad he had not touched the weapon . 
By this time Isaline had risen to her feet , with the remark : `` I do believe I have been asleep . '' 
`` I rather think so , '' smiled Henry , `` for many a long hour has passed since you lay down . '' 
`` Hours , do you say , Henry ? '' 
said Henry . 
Then turning to their host , he inquired the distance to the ford near the Blue Licks . 
Methoto shook his head . 
`` How far could the sun go , '' pursued Henry , pointing to the east , and making a motion over his head with his hand , to indicate the movement of that luminary from its rising to its setting , `` while you were walking there ? '' 
He had to repeat the question some two or three times before the other could understand him . 
replied Methoto at length , indicating by a similar motion of his hand about one-fourth of the distance . 
`` That is about three hours , '' said Henry to Isaline , `` and so I judge the distance to be some ten or twelve miles , which shows that we have been getting further off instead of nearer . '' 
`` They would have to find it first , '' replied Henry , `` and I hardly think they will make the attempt , considering how many hours we have had the start of them . 
`` If we could cross the Licking at once , I should feel much safer , Henry ! '' 
He explained to the white Indian , by words and signs , what he wanted , and the other nodded assent . 
returned Henry . 
The other at once set about kindling the fire ; and having done this , he produced his venison and corn cakes ; and Henry , acting as cook , soon prepared a meal for Isaline and himself , exactly like the one of the night before . 
Feeling now quite secure of escaping from the savages who had pursued them , even should they find their last trail , Henry proposed to Isaline that they should step out and look around them before crossing the river . 
The hill above was steep and rocky , with here and there a stunted tree , or a few bushes , shooting up from between the stones ; and even Henry , experienced as he was in wood-craft , admitted that he might have passed along within a few yards of the hut without seeing it at all . 
They now went back into the hut , and Henry told his host that if he would set them across the river they would resume their journey and part from him with many thanks for his kindness , and would besides so represent him to their friends that he should some day receive a proper reward for his hospitality . 
As soon as he could be made to understand this , he seemed much pleased , and returned several nods and grunts of apparent satisfaction . 
he said . 
rejoined Henry . 
he said , speaking his thoughts aloud rather than addressing the other ; `` yours is a hard case indeed -- leading this lonely , solitary life , without a single friend or companion , a fugitive from the Indians , and rejected by your own race ! 
Methoto listened to Henry and looked pleased ; for though he could only guess at his meaning , he knew from his tone and manner that it was kindly meant . 
she said to Henry . 
`` I am afraid it will not answer , '' he replied , with something like a sigh , `` and thus is lost the hope of crossing the river here , for in the condition the stream is now I would not undertake to swim it with you as I proposed last night . '' 
`` It may be , '' replied Henry , with a troubled look . 
he pursued , musing seriously . 
While this conversation was taking place , Methoto , without heeding it , and probably without understanding even the drift of it , kept himself busy in hauling out the canoe , carefully examining it , and putting it into the water , where , by the time his guests had arrived at their decision , he was holding it with one hand and waiting for them to enter . 
Henry now explained to him his design of swimming and thus keeping it upright . 
Methoto shook his head , in a way to show that he very much disapproved of the plan . 
he said . 
now interposed Henry , rather sternly . 
Methoto turned and gave him a look that was hard to interpret , because it seemed to mean so much and yet expressed so little -- a stern , hard , cold stare , that might either indicate a want of comprehension , or secret , sullen anger at his interference . 
`` If you will put us across the river at once , we will give you many thanks , '' pursued Henry , returning his look with an unquailing eye . 
It was a natural question , because perfectly in accordance with his own proposition ; but Henry , who was gazing straight into his eyes , and endeavoring to understand the soul that was looking out through those dull windows , saw , or fancied he saw , a slight , momentary gleam of satisfaction or triumph ; and reflecting that for himself to be in the water swimming , with Isaline in the boat with Methoto , was to put a new temptation to crime before that strange , dark being , that he might not care to resist , he answered , in a decided tone : `` No , I have changed my mind -- I shall not swim ! '' 
`` For the present , Isaline , I regret to say we must take our chances on this side of the river , '' said Henry , turning to his fair companion . 
She looked at him and caught his meaning at a glance . 
`` Yes , Henry , the river is too dangerous ! '' 
Henry shook his head . 
With a look of sullen disappointment , Methoto jerked the boat ashore , picked it up as if it had been a light stick of wood , and , taking two or three steps up the hill , hurled it under his hut , among the bushes , where it rested as at first . 
`` He is angry with us now , and I am so afraid of him ! '' 
returned Henry , with a look of deep anxiety . 
perhaps he has gone to get his rifle to shoot you , Henry ! '' 
Henry remembered what he had seen in the night , and had his own suspicions and fears , but he merely said : `` We must go up and meet him with smiles -- it may be our only hope ! '' 
whispered Henry . 
He seemed a little confused , and glanced at Henry . 
he rejoined . 
Henry nodded , and Isaline smiled . 
said Henry , accompanying his words with intelligible signs . 
said Isaline to Henry , in a low , anxious tone , the moment they were again by themselves . 
`` You must get leave for me to try my skill , '' returned Henry , `` and by that means I may get possession of the rifle . 
she smiled , pointing to Henry and tapping Methoto 's rifle . 
said Henry , with a careless yawn , reaching out his hand for the piece . 
There was a sudden gleam of suspicion from the cold gray eye of the white savage , which Henry did not appear to observe . 
At first he drew his weapon a little back , as if he did not intend to part with it ; but seeing Isaline look a little hurt and pained -- an expression which , with a great effort , she threw into her lovely face , for her very soul was secretly trembling within her -- he quietly handed his piece to the other , watching him closely as he did so . 
Henry took it indifferently , examined it with some care , sighted along the barrel , and asked if it was loaded . 
`` No , '' returned Henry , `` let me load and fire it myself ! '' 
He reached out his hand for the powder-horn and bullet-pouch , which the other finally handed to him , though with seeming reluctance . 
Henry loaded the weapon with great deliberation , and carefully primed it . 
Everything that he had sought was now in his possession , and Henry nerved himself for the crisis . 
he said , carelessly turning aside , as if to seek his feathered mark . 
She had passed him a few steps , and was apparently looking eagerly about her for the object of her quest , and Methoto had just started to follow , when Henry wheeled suddenly around , and , pointing the rifle at the breast of the white Indian , thundered forth : `` Back , on your life , or you are a dead man ! '' 
Henry cocked the rifle and stood firm , with an unmistakable resolution depicted in his deep blue eye . 
he said , raising the rifle to an aim . 
The danger was too terrible to face ; death was in that hollow tube so unshakingly held before him ; the eye of the white Indian began to quail , his face began to take on a ghastly expression , his stout form began to shrink , tremble and cower , his brute courage could no longer sustain him , and , with the awful howl of a frightened wild beast , he suddenly turned and bounded away , now dodging to the right and now to the left , as if to avoid the aim of his foe , till the thick bushes around his own dwelling completely hid him from the view . 
Instantly Henry uncocked his rifle and hurried to the side of Isaline , whom he found as white as a sheet and trembling like an aspen . 
he said , throwing his protecting arm around her slender form ; `` the worst is over , we are so far saved , and now let us fly while we can ! '' 
She seized and clung to him almost convulsively , and the two set forward in breathless haste , plunging along through bushes , stumbling over sticks and stones , Henry every moment or two looking back and sweeping the whole dreary scene with his keen , experienced eye . 
They did not ascend the hill again , but kept down along the bank of the river , following the windings of the stream , with no word from the ashy lips of Isaline , and only now and then an expression of hope and encouragement from Henry . 
said Henry , quickly , with a look of anxious solicitude . 
`` Dolt that I am , '' said Henry , `` not to have considered that a pace which would be ease for me might be death to you ! '' 
rejoined the other , in a tone of deep self-reproach , as he gazed into her sweet face with a look of anxious kindness . 
Her dark eyes beamed full upon him , with an expression that made his heart take a great leap -- an expression of earnest sweetness , gentleness , sympathy , hope , faith , reliance -- love ! 
Henry next spoke with agitation -- for that one , simple , truthful , unstudied look , excited emotions that made his frame quiver -- his voice tremble . 
`` But have we time , Henry ? 
said Isaline , glancing timidly around her ; `` if not by the savages of yesterday , at least by Methoto , who I am certain will not hesitate to kill you now if he can find an opportunity ! '' 
`` But I have his rifle , dear Isaline , and he fears for his own life . '' 
`` Yes , but may he not get another somewhere , and secretly pursue and murder you ? '' 
`` Borrow it of his nearest neighbor perhaps , '' returned Henry , with a reassuring smile ; `` but while he is gone to that neighbor for it , I think you may safely venture to rest an hour , more especially as the journey there and back would cost him at least a day . '' 
and if they should come upon Methoto now in his anger , he would most likely join with them and follow us for revenge ! '' 
`` There may possibly be something to be feared in that respect , '' said Henry ; `` but , should we now continue our flight , and you faint by the way , what would be gained to us ? 
rejoined Henry ; `` more especially if we can manage to set off in another direction without leaving an easily discernible trail . '' 
exclaimed Henry , with enthusiasm , as , with his sweet companion , he mounted the rock , upon which the bright morning sun was shining warmly and gratefully , and gazed around upon the flowery grove , the bold bluffs , and the rushing , roaring river . 
`` And even if they have , there will be a way to follow them , '' said Henry , cheerily . 
`` And how far do you suppose we are from the ford now , Henry ? '' 
After soothing and reassuring her , with many kind words tenderly spoken , Henry , whose passion for drawing the grand , sublime , or beautiful in nature , would not let him rest idly in so enchanting a place , at length said : `` Will you pardon me , dear Isaline , if , while you are resting , I attempt to sketch the beauties of this most charming of nature 's retreats ? '' 
Henry looked up and around . 
he rejoined , leaping down from the rock and fairly dragging Isaline into the bushes . 
whispered Henry , to his trembling companion , as he reached out and drew his rifle from the old tree against which it was leaning ; `` not a sound above your breath ! 
`` Oh , Henry , you will not leave me ! 
We have said the island was thickly covered with trees and bushes ; but the whole space was small ; and from the spot where Henry first discovered the Indians , to the point where he could look out through a close covert upon the open grove of the main land , was only a few yards -- though so great was his caution that he was comparatively a long time in reaching it . 
When at length he did get there , he saw that which not only made him shudder , but awakened the most strange and conflicting emotions -- for there , on the very spot where he had stopped with his fair companion to gaze around upon the beauties of the place , stood six hideously painted savages and three white men -- one of the latter being no other than his long lost foe , Charles Hampton , the second Methoto , and the third the villain who had attempted to decoy himself and companions ashore on the Ohio . 
Henry saw that he and Isaline were already cut off from their companions , whom they had so fondly hoped to join soon , and what chance of escape had they now ? 
The thought of their present condition made him shudder ; and yet he felt grateful to that kind Providence which had so wonderfully preserved them thus far , and even here had caused them to turn aside and perhaps be saved from the capture that would have ensued had they continued their flight . 
All these thoughts went through the brain of Henry almost at a flash as his eyes rested upon the terrible group before him . 
For some cause the whole party had halted upon the very spot where he and Isaline had stopped scarcely two hours before , but evidently not , like him , to admire the surrounding beauties . 
Of what they said , Henry of course knew nothing ; but from their gestures , he judged that the majority were for continuing the pursuit , and one or two were for turning back . 
Henry now turned back to Isaline , who had stopped a couple of paces behind him ; and his face was so white , and his look so full of distress and dismay , that she involuntarily clasped her hands and gasped : `` What is it ? '' 
gasped Isaline , pressing her hands upon her heart , with a look of terrible despair . 
For a few moments Henry seemed lost in distracting thought . 
he at length said , in a startling whisper ; `` there is no other hope ! '' 
Isaline looked the question her lips did not pronounce . 
pursued Henry ; `` and if we were to fly now , and get off without being discovered , they would soon be upon our fresh trail and overtake us ! '' 
`` Oh , no , no , Henry , my dear friend ! '' 
`` Isaline , '' rejoined Henry , fairly trembling with the excess of various contending emotions , `` I receive your counsel in the spirit it is meant , and therefore forgive you ; but oh ! 
He hurriedly crept back through the bushes , -LRB- fearing to stand upright lest he should be discovered , -RRB- to the edge of the rushing , roaring stream , and Isaline closely followed him . 
`` To your care , dear Henry , under God , I commit myself , for time or for eternity ! '' 
Henry was a good swimmer , and his presence of mind did not desert him ; but Isaline gasped , and struggled , and clutched wildly hold of him , in a manner that required all his strength and skill to save them both from a watery grave . 
`` I have great hope now , '' replied Henry ; `` for if we can only succeed in eluding these savages a while longer , they will certainly give up the search . 
`` Better for your future peace of mind , Henry , that you did not ! '' 
`` I hold that we have no right to take human life except in self-defence ; and though he treacherously fired at you , yet after the ball had missed its mark you were no longer in deadly peril from him . '' 
said Henry , in a tone that showed he was far from being satisfied with matters as they were . 
With some assistance from him , Isaline succeeded in gaining the body of the tree , and the next minute Henry was himself by her side . 
Henry now examined his powder-horn , and found to his satisfaction that the contents were perfectly dry . 
He next unfastened his rifle and examined that . 
`` I shall have trouble in getting out this charge , '' he said . 
He proceeded to wipe the lock , and clean out the wet powder from the pan and fill it with dry . 
`` Perhaps by flashing this off , a few times , '' he again remarked , as if rather thinking aloud than addressing his companion , `` the powder inside will become dry enough to take fire and drive out the ball . '' 
`` It certainly would not be prudent to fire off the piece now , '' replied Henry ; `` but there can be no harm in flashing the powder in the pan a few times , which will tend to dry the other and be so much time saved . '' 
He snapped the piece as he spoke , and there followed a bright flash and a light smoke . 
He immediately repeated the experiment , with the same result . 
He tried it the third time , and , to his great surprise and even consternation , the charge within , after hanging fire a short time , went off with a loud report . 
were the terms of angry reproach that Henry applied to himself : `` how long must I live in the wilderness , surrounded by the most deadly perils , to learn ordinary prudence ! 
I do not think the report was heard by our enemies , '' he added , after listening for a few minutes and glancing sharply around him ; `` but no thanks to me , who deserve punishment for my folly ! 
He braced himself among the limbs , and immediately began to wipe out and reload his weapon ; but Isaline remained motionless and silent , with one hand pressed upon her heart , and her sweet features pale and anxious . 
Henry finished reloading his rifle , and then kept his eyes anxiously moving from point to point among the thick leaves of the covert . 
It was little he could see , where branches , vines and bushes were so woven in together that the noon-day sun rarely penetrated to the teeming earth . 
At length , in looking around , he casually glanced at the face of Isaline , and fairly started at beholding the expression of horror which the features displayed . 
She seemed to be gazing at some frightful object , and to be fairly petrified with fear ; and instantly looking for the cause of her terror , Henry felt his own blood run cold and his hair rise as he caught a glimpse of a half-naked savage stealing along through the thick bushes on the very edge of the stream , with a motion so guarded as not to make a noise equal to the rustling of a leaf . 
Then his sharp , black eyes were thrown around in quick , searching glances , and were suddenly lifted to the limb which Henry had first taken hold of to pull the log in , and from which a twig or two and some leaves had been broken and dropped on the bushes below and into the edge of the water . 
The next moment his basilisk eyes were searching the body of the tree ; and Henry mentally groaned at the thought that now all hope was over , and possibly because of his own imprudence -- for had his rifle not been discharged , the keen eyes of this savage might not have been so specially directed to his present place of concealment , and his foes might have gone on and missed him . 
So quick and searching were the glances of the Indian below , that not more than twenty or thirty seconds elapsed , from the moment when he stopped under the tree , before he gave the triumphant yell , or halloo , of discovery . 
Henry felt that now indeed his last faint hope had expired , and instantly turned his despairing gaze upon his sweet and silent companion . 
It was just in time , for poor Isaline had already fainted and was in the act of falling , and it required a quick and vigorous exertion on his part to keep her senseless form from dropping down to the feet of the exultant savage below . 
Inthe course of two or three minutes the whole number of the savages and their white companions had gathered around the foot of the tree in whose branches Henry yet remained supporting the still unconscious Isaline . 
he sighed , thinking solely of her and not of himself ; `` would to Heaven I could deliver you by the sacrifice of my own poor life ! 
Thus far Henry had not spoken a word , but , with tender solicitude , had remained in the tree , supporting the inanimate form of his unconscious companion , and wishing from the very depths of his heart she might never unclose her eyes to the dreadful misery that had come upon her . 
What his feelings were in those awful moments -- the intensity of his anguish -- may never be revealed ; but there was little of self in his consideration : his whole soul was centered upon poor Isaline -- the innocent lamb among a pack of ravenous wolves . 
`` Charles Hampton , '' he said at length , in a calm , firm , dispassionate tone , `` I ask nothing for myself , but everything for one for whom you have professed regard . 
said Henry . 
said Henry . 
The other said a few words to the savages in their native tongue ; and they , jerking out their guttural replies , immediately gathered around in a close group , directly under Henry and Isaline . 
Painful as it was for Henry thus to deliver into the possession of his rival , the fair , sweet being he loved above all others , there was no alternative ; and with many anxious words of caution , he lowered her unconscious form as gently as he could , and , with feelings no language may portray , beheld her first seized by the rude hands of savages and then clasped in the arms of his deadly foe . 
Meantime Henry leaped down among the savages , and was immediately laid hold of , with whoops of triumph . 
As soon as Methoto could reach him , he seized and jerked his rifle from his hands , and , springing back some three or four paces , attempted to shoot him . 
In fact he would have done so , but for Blodget , who knocked the piece up just as he had it levelled and was in the act of pulling the trigger . 
While Hampton kept himself busy in trying to restore Isaline -- and there appeared to have been some arrangement by which she was to be left solely in his charge -- the Indians began to strip and plunder Henry , one taking his knife and belt , another his hunting-frock , a third his hat , and so on , till in the course of five minutes he had nothing left to him but his breeches and a part of a torn shirt . 
Methoto of course claimed his own powder-horn and bullet-pouch ; and though he would gladly have had a share of the rest of the things , his dusky brothers appeared to think he had got enough , and divided all the plunder among themselves , each putting on some part of the young man 's dress and strutting around , amid general laughter at each other . 
By the time the savages had finished plundering Henry , poor Isaline had so far revived as to raise her head , with a wild stare at Hampton , and ask where she was . 
`` You are not Henry Colburn ? '' 
Oh , where is my friend and protector , Henry Colburn ? '' 
`` Take him away ! '' 
Blodget said a few words to the Indians , only one or two of whom could even imperfectly understand English , and they at once gathered around Henry and dragged him back through the bushes up to the top of the hill . 
`` Oh , let me go with him ! '' 
Perhaps , by affecting to believe the villian , and appearing to become in a degree reconciled to her situation , she might obtain over him an influence that she could use to her own advantage , and possibly to the advantage of Henry Colburn , who might otherwise have no friendly aid . 
he eagerly returned , with a glow of satisfaction . 
`` You see , Miss Isaline , '' he rejoined with what he intended to be a winning smile , `` it is my proudest ambition to stand high in your regard , and this very fact unfortunately has been the leading cause of all my troubles . 
As probably you know , I was actually compelled to go out into the dark wood , on that dark night , ostensibly to fight a duel with Colburn , but in reality to be murdered ; and but for the fact that we were interrupted in a most mysterious and fearful manner , I am certain I should not be living now . '' 
These facts , it will be seen , agree with the language used by Hampton while Henry was supporting the unconscious Isaline ; but as she had heard nothing of that , he felt he could say what he pleased to her without fear of any contradictory statement being pointed out . 
At this moment there rung out a fierce cry from some one of the party who had carried off Henry , followed by loud , savage laughter ; and fearing , she knew not what , Isaline involuntarily clasped her hands , turned more deadly pale , shuddered , and grew sick at heart . 
`` I will not deny , Mr. Hampton , '' returned Isaline , frankly , `` that I take a great interest in Henry Colburn ; and I could not do otherwise without being ungrateful ; for he has not only been very kind to me , but has perilled his life to save mine . '' 
`` Of course -- I understand -- he is always right in your eyes -- a paragon of excellence ! '' 
Nothing more was said till they reached the top of the hill , where Isaline was pained beyond measure at seeing Henry , with a face red and swollen , as if from blows , bound to a sapling , with his arms tightly corded behind his back , and the Indians and the white men standing together in a group , a short distance from him , evidently holding a serious consultation . 
They then released Henry from the tree , but kept his arms corded , and , forming themselves in single file , placed him in the centre , with Blodget close behind him and Methoto next , leaving Hampton to bring up the rear with hisprisoner , or follow in what manner he might choose . 
`` Look ' e here , '' said Blodget to Colburn , with the spiteful malice of a brutal wretch , `` I do n't owe you any good will , as you know , and some day I 'll make you feel it ! 
replied Henry , quietly . 
Henry started , with a fierce strain on the cords that confined his wrists together behind him ; but finding himself powerless to act , he immediately became very quiet ; and the hot blood , which had sprung to his face , suddenly retreated and left it very pale . 
Hitherto , seeing Hampton and herself with so much freedom , she had not exactly felt herself a prisoner , except to him , and had contemplated for herself nothing more annoying and fearful than a solitary journey with him , instead of Henry , through the wilderness , to her father 's home ; but now she became truly alarmed , for his language led to the conviction that he intended going with the savages back into their own country . 
`` Why , as to that , '' he coolly replied , `` I think not , under the circumstances . 
Had Henry 's arms then been free , he would have bounded away , at the risk of being shot down ; but as it was , he leaned his back against a tree , and remained as passive as the most ordinary spectator , saying nothing , and apparently taking little or no interest in what was going on . 
Henry apparently took no notice of this threat , and kept perfectly silent . 
He did not even look at poor Isaline -- who , for some time , stood like a marble statue , only a few paces from him -- and she in turn scarcely glanced at him . 
Henry quietly took his place in the file as before ; but Isaline seemed not aware of what was going on till Hampton touched her on the shoulder . 
`` I suppose if you had that fellow Colburn here in my place , it would make a wonderful difference ! '' 
Henry , with his wrists still bound together behind his back , only kept his feet with great difficulty ; and Isaline would have been carried down the stream but for the support of Hampton . 
This was the second time that day that she had found herself struggling in the waters of the Licking ; and she almost regretted she had not perished at first -- for death with Henry , she felt , would be far preferable to a life with him who was now by her side . 
Itwill be remembered that when Henry and Isaline turned aside from the main route to visit the Indian mound , the train was moving through an open wood , at a snail-like pace . 
Hurriedly telling one of his companions to push on with all speed , and cross the ford at once if possible , Tom turned and started back on a run , intending to find Henry and Isaline , inform them of what had been done , and if , as he feared , they should be too late for getting over the river that day , to remain with them till they should be able to join their companions . 
Tom had not got back far enough to be caught in the whirl of the hurricane , though it was plainly in sight ; and when he saw the awful work of destruction before him , he groaned in spirit at the thought that perhaps both Henry and Isaline were beyond earthly aid . 
It will be remembered that when Henry and Isaline passed over the same ground as the main party the next day , they saw three or four cabins in smoking ruins ; but all the people belonging to these had escaped -- the scouts having given them warning , as they hurried past , that a large body of savages were close upon them . 
Inthe course of a few minutes quite a number of the besiegers had collected around the group of which Henry and Isaline formed a part . 
Blodget now turned and said a few words to Methoto in the Indian tongue , and the latter grunted and nodded and glanced wickedly at Henry , who was standing quietly within reach of him , his features very pale , but nothing in his look to indicate that he understood what had been said , or that he even took any interest in what was going on around him . 
Henry looked at him , as if to be certain he was expected to reply to the question , and then answered , in a mild , firm tone : `` Not as well as you do probably . '' 
`` I did not insult you , '' returned Henry , in the same quiet tone ; `` but having myself been insulted by you , I challenged you to put your life against mine in a fair and honorable combat . '' 
`` The plan was not mine , '' rejoined Henry , `` and in the whole matter I was governed by others . 
replied Henry , fixing his clear blue eye steadily upon him . 
again cried Hampton , white with rage , and accompanying the words with a brutal blow in the face of Henry , that drew blood and staggered him back to where Isaline was seated , who instantly started to her feet , with a wild scream , and threw her arms around his neck , as if she would protect him with her life . 
cried Hampton , striding up to Isaline and roughly seizing her by the arm . 
He wheeled around to seek Henry -- to perform what wicked and cruel act we will not pretend to say -- but the next moment he fairly howled with disappointed rage . 
Henry Colburn was gone . 
Taking advantage of the quarrel between the two villains left to guard him , he had darted off through the wood , and by this time was far enough away to render pursuit uncertain if not useless . 
Thank God , '' she added , with a triumphant flush , `` Henry Colburn has escaped from your vile hands ! 
Brave , noble , generous , self-sacrificing Henry Colburn ! 
where was he now ? 
I should have got that fellow Colburn out of the way without making my hate too manifest ; that was bad policy ; and abusing him in the presence of the girl was still worse -- for it is clear she loves him madly ; but then it is not so easy to keep one 's passions under on all occasions . 
His escape was most unfortunate , for of course he will urge a fierce pursuit ; and if the Indians do not now make a hurried flight out of the country , we may get into trouble yet . 
With Henry Colburn it would be happiness for her to share danger -- with Charles Hampton it would be misery for her to share safety . 
And then , thoughts of all thoughts -- to try every nerve , increase every emotion , and strain almost to bursting her already dizzy brain -- what if Henry Colburn were here in the strife , and the good God should be pleased to grant victory to him , and permit the poor captive and wanderer once more to rest in his protecting arms , against his manly breast , behold once more his noble face , and hear once more that voice which was music to her soul ? 
Then , with a great cry -- great in its expression of agonized emotion , that welled up and rushed outward from the innermost depths of her being -- she fell forward and clasped , with the embrace of a love eternal as immortal existence , the insensible form of Henry Colburn ! 
While Isaline wept , with her arms clasping Henry and her lips pressed to his , consciousness returned to him : as if his spirit , hovering about its mortal tenement and ready to take its eternal flight , had been forced back and secured by the strongest of earthly powers . 
Consciousness returned to him , and he opened his eyes , to behold what his mental faculties were not prepared to comprehend and believe . 
Was he dreaming ? 
or was the idol of his soul within his embrace ? 
he murmured , and trembled with the sweet word , lest the ecstatic vision should suddenly dissolve and be no more . 
`` Oh , Henry ! '' 
Henry clasped his arms around her , and strained her to his heart , in a strange , incomprehensible delirium of joy . 
`` Oh , Henry , '' she cried , in sudden alarm , `` Heaven forgive me for forgetting that you are wounded ! 
`` Before I answer your many questions , dear Henry , '' replied Isaline , `` let me find your wound and bind it up ; and get the assurance , if our kind Father in Heaven will grant me so much happiness , that you are not now about to be snatched from me by death ! '' 
returned Henry . 
It was here you fell , dear Henry . 
exclaimed Henry ; `` was the fight here , do you say ? 
`` Ah , Henry , I know no more than yourself . 
As no wound could be found upon the person of Henry -- none at least more serious than here and there a scratch and a bruise -- the conclusion was arrived at that he had been stunned in falling -- which was in a measure confirmed by the discovery that his head in one place was much swollen and tender to the touch . 
His face too still exhibited some marks of the brutal treatment he had received from Blodget and Hampton . 
`` It is very strange , '' said Henry , `` that friends and foes should all have left this ground so soon after the fight ! 
he added , `` I think I understand it now ! 
said Henry , with a shudder . 
said Henry . 
`` Henry , '' observed Isaline , solemnly , `` it was Providence that preserved and brought us together , and Providence is God ! 
But Henry , my dearest friend , '' she added , glaneing timidly around and up through the brambly screen , `` have we time to remain here and recount our adventures ? 
replied Henry . 
`` Oh , you will be very careful , very prudent , Henry ? '' 
Henry first peered about the wood from his place of concealment ; and then , again cautioning Isaline to remain perfectly quiet and not expose herself to the chance view of any one , under any circumstances , he crept carefully up from the pit , out into the more open forest , leaving her , pale and trembling , to pray for his safe return . 
He was only absent a few minutes from her side , and brought back with him two rifles . 
Would that have been sufficient to have frightened him off , Henry ? '' 
`` Perhaps -- if , like the scouts , he had any superstitious fears concerning the Phantom . '' 
perhaps then , '' said Henry , jumping directly at the truth , `` you did utter a wild cry ! 
`` But even granting your conjecture to be the correct one , Henry , is there no danger of their coming back here soon ? '' 
`` You think then we had better remain here , Henry ? '' 
`` Are we indeed within ten miles of a station , Henry ? '' 
`` And you know the way , Henry ? '' 
Henry now cautiously proceeded to load the two rifles , and place them in a position where they could be grasped in an instant . 
This done , he gently passed his arm around the slender form of Isaline , drew her fondly to him , and looking , with the eye of saddened love , full into her pale , sweet , lovely countenance , said tenderly : `` Isaline , my darling , now let me hear your tale of suffering since we parted -- that parting , my sweet angel , that almost broke my heart -- when I flew away from you as if I were a coward -- but only that I might save you in the end , or come back as your avenger ! '' 
returned Henry , impulsively drawing the noble girl to his heart , and impressing upon her sweet lips a seal of deep , pure , holy love . 
Henry listened with intense and breathless interest , with a wildly beating heart , and with his feelings and passions so strongly stirred that he could not all the time keep silent , but was occasionally forced to interrupt the sweet narrator with an exclamation of anger , or of pity , or to ask some important question . 
`` Optical illusion , '' explained Henry , who was something of a philosopher as well as artist . 
`` No , Henry , it vanished ! '' 
`` Well , let it pass for the present , for I am anxious to hear the rest of your painful story , dear Isaline , '' said Henry , knowing how useless it would be to argue against an illusive conviction without substantial proof to sustain his points . 
Isaline went on to the conclusion , and her eventful narration affected Henry in the manner described . 
At the urgent request of Isaline , Henry now told the story of his own adventures , after his escape from his captors before the station ; but these we will not dwell upon . 
He had fortunately soon met with a large body of armed Kentuckians , who had been brought to the rescue from a distant station by Rough Tom ; and he had subsequently been provided with arms and clothing , and had joined in the pursuit of the flying Indians . 
When they reached the place where the Indians had divided , their own force had also divided , and a part had followed each trail -- Henry and the scouts pursuing the larger party , because they had discovered that Isaline had been taken along with the main body . 
At the time of the attack , about half of the Indians were mounted ; but these had quickly given their horses in charge of a few -- who had taken them , with the plunder they were carrying , beyond the reach of the flying bullets -- and then all had joined in the contest , fighting with a desperation that was giving them an assurance of victory at the moment Henry lost his senses in the manner shown . 
He knew that some had been killed and wounded on both sides ; but what had since become of the living or dead , of course he could not say . 
`` When we first came up with the Indians , dear Isaline , '' said Henry , `` I eagerly looked for you ; but not seeing you among them , I had reason to suppose you had been killed ; and then , with such mental anguish as tongue can not express , I sternly resolved that while a single savage lived I would not come out of the fight alive ; and that was the cause of my reckless desperation , of which you were to some extent a witness . '' 
ejaculated Henry , again pressing the lovely maiden to his heart . 
he reverently added . 
old Tom may be rough , as his sobriquet implies , '' said Henry , with an enthusiastic glow , `` but his heart is true to his friends , and I shall never forget his eager determination to rescue the colonel 's daughter , as he calls you . '' 
said Henry , quickly ; `` for rough and unlettered as he is , I have not in all this wide world a friend to supply his place . 
slowly and thoughtfully replied Henry . 
It was the design of Henry , as we have shown , that he and Isaline should if possible remain in their place of concealment through the day , and set off after dark to find their way to the nearest station ; and in pursuance of this plan they had passed a couple of hours together , in undisturbed happiness , when , alas ! 
As soon as he had done , they showed in their looks an eagerness to set forward ; but before they did so , they stripped Hampton of nearly everything , in much the same manner as Henry Colburn had been robbed when first taken . 
Binding the arms of Hampton behind his back , in the manner that Henry Colburn had been secured , and throwing the scouts forward as before , the whole number of savages resumed their march toward the battle-field . 
They do n't know , the fools , that we 're so near them , and that our scouts have already seen them , and that we 'll soon have their scalps dangling at our girdles -- all at least except one or two -- for if we can catch that Colburn alive , I 've given directions to have him preserved , in order to put him along side of you and have a pretty pair of beauties to amuse me with . 
Henry and Isaline were still conversing together in whispers , in their place of concealment , when the former suddenly started , with a look of alarm , turned slightly pale , and placed his finger to his lips . 
`` It may have been fancy , '' at length whispered Henry , `` but I thought I heard a sound like the distant snapping of a dry stick . '' 
`` I hear something like the rustling of bushes , Henry . '' 
said Henry , after a brief pause . 
said Henry . 
`` Friend or foe , Henry ? '' 
said Henry , with a bright flush of joy . 
Presently other voices were heard ; and immediately after , both Henry and Isaline were able to distinguish the solemn words : `` We 'd better dig thar graves here ! '' 
Isaline laid her trembling hand upon the arm of her companion , and looked almost wildly into his face . 
he said , with a look of solemn awe . 
`` Oh , dear Henry , are you sure ? '' 
said Henry , with a bright gleam of satisfaction . 
he added , as he quietly rose and cautiously crept out of the thicket . 
`` Oh , look out well for danger , dear Henry ! '' 
On creeping out from the thicket , Henry perceived his late companions grouped together at the foot of a tree , Rough Tom among the number . 
He approached them quietly , and was not perceived till within a few feet , when he was greeted with a shout of pleasure . 
said Henry ; and as he spoke , his eye fell upon three still , bloody forms , that lay stretched out , side-by-side , at the feet of the men . 
he asked , with a shudder , pointing to the bodies . 
smiled Henry . 
rejoined Henry , purposely prolonging the subject , in order to draw Tom out and then give him a pleasant surprise . 
The spot pointed out was about twenty yards from the bramble-pit , and Henry asked if the sound appeared to have come from that direction . 
said Henry , gravely . 
smiled Henry . 
smiled Henry . 
grumbled the old woodman , as he went forward with Henry , leaving the others busy in digging the graves of their dead comrades with their knives and hatchets . 
asked Henry , as they walked toward the thicket , glancing around him somewhat anxiously . 
said Henry , as they drew near the place where Isaline still remained concealed . 
said Henry , as he disappeared on the other side . 
He was absent only a minute ; and then reappeared , helping out Isaline -- who , having heard most of the conversation , understood the whole matter , and needed no explanation from Henry . 
The moment Tom saw her , he started and stared -- rubbed his eyes and stared again -- and then , with a yell of delight , rushed up , threw his strong , rough arms around her , and , giving her a hug that almost took her breath , exclaimed : `` Catermounts and allergaters ! 
replied one of the men , as they went back to their solemn work , leaving Rough Tom , Henry and Isaline standing together . 
cried Tom , with a laugh , giving Henry a hearty slap on his shoulder ; `` I do n't wonder you tuk it so easy with the Phantom!Wagh ! 
As he said this , standing close by the bramble-pit , with Henry and Isaline both looking at him and smiling , five or six savages suddenly sprung upon them , with their horrid yells ; and , before the least resistance could be made , our two friends were overpowered and borne down to the earth , and poor Isaline was pinioned in the strong arms of Methoto . 
Rough Tom and Henry , meantime , had received much the same treatment as Hampton ; and now , with nearly everything stripped from their persons -- their faces , arms and bodies marked with blows -- they stood bound to a sapling , bearing up under their misfortunes with the heroic fortitude of brave men ; but Isaline , poor Isaline , was still in the arms of her captor , the rough Methoto , who having now got possession of her , was disposed to retain it as long as possible . 
And she , poor girl -- confounded and bewildered by the shock which had so suddenly changed her happiness into horror , with only a stupefied consciousness of misery remaining to her -- made no attempt to escape from the arms that held her ; but sat , with her eyes fixed on Henry , as one who saw yet only partially comprehended . 
Blodget , as he came up and glanced at Methoto , scowled darkly ; but his first words were addressed to Henry . 
`` So , '' he said , shaking the gory scalps of his late victims in the face of the young artist , `` we 've got you back again among us , have we ? 
An old friend of yours , '' he pursued , turning to Henry , `` and very fond of that girl there , that Methoto 's playing doll-baby with -- Charles Hampton , he calls himself . '' 
Unbinding Tom and Henry , all except their hands , and placing them separately in the file , with Isaline in the rear , the Indians now resumed their triumphant march in the same direction they had fled before . 
Isaline took hers , but scarcely tasted it ; Hampton and Henry ate only a little ; but Tom devoured enough for three ordinary men -- carelessly remarking to Blodget , with his mouth full of the tender , well-toasted meat : `` I 've seed worse cooks nor these red ni -- a -- a -- Injuns -- and I 've got a holler in me you could chuck a ox into -- yes , sir ! '' 
Her feelings , and those of Henry -- as , stripped nearly naked , he was forced over the roughest ground , with here and there a sharp stick and stone lacerating his naked feet -- we must leave to lovers to imagine . 
What the future might have in store fore them , it was terrible to conjecture ; but as in their hour of happiness , so in their hour of misery , they silently and secretly prayed to Him who alone had the power to deliver them from the hands of their enemies and bring them together in safety and joy . 
Then he cut a stout switch , and was proceeding to serve Henry still worse , when the whole camp was startled with that strange , wild , prolonged , quavering shriek so often heard before . 
how was it with poor Henry , when he found that Isaline had been carried off by that terrible being who in his wild passions he fancied was more to be dreaded than the native savages ? 
It was thus with Henry Colburn in the present instance . 
At first he felt as if he must shriek out his very life -- as if his very soul must tear asunder its bonds of clay and be free -- and then a dull , heavy stupor stole over him ; and he lived on , with a dim comprehension of the horrible truth -- with a sense of some great misery weighing him down -- but , along with this , an irresistible desire to put aside all thought , and sleep , and be at rest forever more . 
So also , strange as it might seem but for our explanation , did Henry , though painfully bound , and in the midst of his foes , with the being he loved above all others in the hands of a wretch capable of the most terrible crimes . 
Henry , as we have said , had slept heavily through the night , owing to the stupor brought on by his overwhelming grief ; but with the full return of consciousness , came back a full sense of his misery , and his mental sufferings no pen or tongue may ever portray . 
While this devil was speaking , Henry strove to keep down his temper and appear unmoved , well knowing how worse than useless it would be to show anger and so increase the triumph of his deadly foe ; but Blodget 's allusions to poor Isaline almost drove him mad ; and in spite of all the Stoical philosophy he could bring to his aid , his face grew pale and red by turns , his ashy lips quivered , the veins on his forehead swelled and stood out like whipcords , and large beads of perspiration gathered all over his agonized features . 
Had Blodget continued his tortures , he might have driven him insane ; and had Henry 's hands been free , it is more than probable he would have struck the villain dead at his feet . 
He therefore turned to the rough woodman -- who , having heard his remarks to the others , and especially to Henry , was trying to keep his rage concealed and appear indifferent -- and said , with something perhaps of sincerity : `` Tom , I 'm going to leave you for a while , to try and see if I can catch that devil Methoto and get back the girl ; but I have told the Indians to let up on you as much as they safely can , and not treat you too harshly . 
groaned Henry , as he still sat with his head bowed to his breast ; `` how much can a human being endure and live ? 
Colburn and Hampton , both extremely dejected , though with feelings perhaps as different as light and darkness , ate little , and that rather through force than desire ; but Tom bolted his portion with a gusto and zeal that amused the savages not a little . 
Looking at the distressed and haggard face of Henry , he attempted in his rude way to offer him what consolation he could . 
`` It 's powerful hard , lad , '' he said , in a sympathetic tone , and with his rough features softening and his eyes filling with tears , `` for you to bear up ag ` in all the trouble that 's come upon you ; but cheer up , Harry , and never say die ! 
`` Oh , Tom , '' groaned Henry , in a low , tremulous voice , with his bloodless lips fairly quivering , but still keeping under , by a master effort of his will , emotions that seemed as if they would rend his soul from its earthly tenement : `` oh , Tom , only to think , after all my pain , peril , anxiety and suffering , of mind and body , beyond even the tortures which savages have power to inflict , that I should again have her in my arms , and experience a few minutes of such earthly happiness as I had never before known , and then see her suddenly snatched from me , and subsequently borne off to a doom a thousand times worse than death , without the power to even so much as lift a hand in her defence ! 
That thar devil as tuk her off wo n't kill her -- and t ` other devil as went arter her wo n't -- and so -LRB- lowering his voice till only Henry 's ear could catch the words -RRB- when we gits away we 'll hunt her up , and you 'll see happy times yit . '' 
repeated Henry , in a low , guarded tone , looking wonderingly at Tom ; `` have you any hope of that ? '' 
`` Tell me , Tom , '' said Henry , as soon as he could again speak without being overheard by a third party , `` what chance there can possibly be of our getting away from our captors ! '' 
`` Oh , thar 'll so ` thing turn up , Harry , arter a while , '' answered the other , rather from a hope than from any settled plan of his own . 
groaned Henry ; `` and the awful present is so all important to me ! 
he prayed . 
groaned Henry . 
sighed Henry . 
asked Henry . 
said Henry , brightening . 
`` If I only had my liberty , I could do something with a burnt stick and a piece of bark , even without my drawing materials , '' said Henry ; `` and if the Indians would only give me some of their paints and a chance to work , I would soon astonish them . '' 
`` I hardly know how to begin , but the first opportunity I have I will try , '' said Henry . 
He did try with his guard ; but as they could only understand and speak a few of the most simple and common English words , and as his hands were bound so that he could make no explanatory gestures , he did not succeed in getting them to comprehend him , and again became terribly depressed with grief and despair . 
It was now that , taking advantage of his liberty , Henry addressed them in the most simple words he could find , accompanied with appropriate gestures , describing his power of drawing , not only scenes but faces . 
They did not altogether comprehend him at first ; but they understood something -- enough to excite their curiosity to know more ; and taking advantage of this favorable impression , he advanced to the fire , selected the stick best suited to his purpose , drew it forth , put out the blaze , and , using the charred end on the inside of a large strip of bark that he found lying on the ground , with a few artistic strokes , sketched a rough but unmistakable outline of the whole savage group . 
It now occurred to Henry that his coat might possibly be among the pile of clothing they had been bringing along as a part of their plunder , and that possibly some of his former sketches and drawing materials might be in the pocket still , and so by words and signs he made the savages understand enough to grant him the privilege of searching . 
To his great joy he found his coat , thus proving that his captors had preserved it even during their hurried flight and had afterward thrown it among the general stock . 
He eagerly thrust his hand into the pocket -- but , to his great disappointment , found nothing there -- and he was about to lay the garment down , with a pang of sorrow , when he heard something like the rustling of papers , and discovered a bulky mass between the outer cloth and the lining , at the bottom of one of the skirts . 
Instantly thrusting his hand back into the pocket , he still found it whole ; but near it was a rent in the lining , through which , in his haste , when on the little island , he had probably dropped the articles . 
Quickly pushing his hand through this , down to the bottom of the skirt , he now , with inexpressible joy , because of his hope of ultimate freedom , drew forth a bundle of his pictures , with two or three pencils and some white paper . 
Neither the drawings nor the paper were in a good condition , for they had been somewhat damaged by the long time they had remained submerged in the waters of the Licking ; but still they would answer his purpose ; and when he showed them to the Indians , they evinced a delight , in looks , gestures , and words , that perfectly satisfied him . 
Among these sketches was the one , not quite finished , which he was drawing at the time he first discovered the Indians who subsequently became his captors ; and the sight of that beautiful scene , with the recollection of his dear Isaline , now filled his soul with such emotions as made his brain reel and his whole frame quiver . 
`` Yes , '' said Henry , tapping his own breast , `` and I saw it ! '' 
He selected the principal or oldest chief , and made a sketch of his face and figure by the fire-light ; and with such success that it was immediately recognized by all the warriors ; who were so delighted that they laughed , and tapped Henry on the shoulder , and grunted out the English word `` Good ! '' 
Henry drew two more of the head warriors , or chiefs , with quite as much success as the first , and then signified that he was very much fatigued and sleepy . 
Though the savages would gladly have kept him employed all night , they now forbore to press him any further , but gave him his supper , and treated him with something like respect . 
They were evidently highly pleased with him , and already the idea of adopting him had begun to take the place of burning him ; and when he signified his wish to lie down , they seemed to hesitate about securing him in so ignominious and cruel a manner as before . 
They finally , after a brief consultation , pointed to a spot in the centre of the camp , and permitted him to lie down without any bonds at all , though some half-a-dozen warriors stretched themselves out on every side of him . 
He had no opportunity to exchange any further words with Tom ; but he managed to get a glance at his friend 's eye , and saw by its gleam that the old woodman was highly delighted with his success thus far . 
When the camp had finally become still , Henry pretended to fall asleep , though never wider awake and with all his senses more keenly on the alert . 
He had already , he felt , made a great stride toward freedom ; and he was now resolved , if there should be any opportunity for escape , to take advantage of it at whatever risk . 
He listened to every sound and noted every breath , his heart the while beating wildly with hope and fear . 
About midnight , as near as he could judge , he gently raised himself to a sitting posture and looked over the still forms of his foes , stretched out all around him . 
The fire had gone down , the night was cloudy , and everything seemed favorable to his escape , provided he could get beyond the sleeping warriors without disturbing them . 
With this thought and this hope , Henry quietly sunk back to his place on the ground and stretched himself out at full length as at first . 
Then he stole his hand , very slowly and softly , to the belt of the nearest Indian , and , with a wonderful delicacy of touch , felt for the weapon . 
When at length his fingers came in contact with what he sought , he fancied he could hear his own heart beat ; and as he slowly , slowly , slowly drew forth the sharp steel , he fairly held his breath . 
At last it was in his hand , and the savage had not stirred ; and then what an earnest prayer of thanksgiving he breathed ; and how fervently he prayed that God would aid him to accomplish a purpose of which the holiest angels must approve ! 
Now some two or three of the savages turned over , with the peculiar grunts or groans of disturbed sleepers , and Henry stopped , with his heart in his mouth . 
His purpose though was fixed . 
If discovered , he would fly -- bound away for his chances in the dark , surrounding wood , come life or come death ! 
Stealthily his feet were carried over the prostrate forms , and silently brought down beside them , till he reached Tom , who quietly lifted and nodded his head , to show that he was awake and saw him . 
Here was the critical point -- now was the critical moment . 
If he could only liberate Tom , and both gain the wood , then farewell to Indian captivity , even though death should meance in a thousand different forms . 
Henry understood him , yielded up his weapon , and glided away . 
Stealthilyand silently gliding away together , as if one unspoken thought were actuating both , our two friends put some fifty yards between them and the Indians ; and then Tom stopped , threw his brawny arms around Henry , and almost hugged the breath out of him . 
`` You done it glorious , boy , and I 'd like to yell out my feelings ! '' 
he whispered . 
returned Henry , warningly . 
`` Oh , Tom , '' said Henry , somewhat nervously , `` do not forget the fearful danger we must incur if we attempt such a thing ! 
`` Tom , Tom , my dear friend , '' said Henry , in a reproving tone , `` you seem to forget where we are , and what dangers still surround us ! '' 
replied Henry . 
`` Tom , my dear friend , '' returned Henry , `` do not , for Heaven 's sake , drive me wild with any insane freak of yours now ! 
`` No , Tom , '' said Henry , firmly , `` I will not desert you like a coward . 
`` The most dangerous part of the exploit will be in securing the guns , '' said Henry ; `` but if you are resolved upon the venture , so be it , and let us set about it at once ! '' 
When near enough for his purpose , Tom laid his hand upon the arm of Henry , as a signal for him to stop , and then crept forward alone . 
For a minute or two Henry held his breath in fearful expectation ; and then , to his great relief and joy , he perceived the dim , shadowy figure of Tom creeping back to him , with two muskets resting on his shoulder . 
returned Henry , in the same low , guarded manner . 
said Henry , fairly trembling at the thought of another perilous venture into the very jaws of death as it were . 
Henry would have remonstrated further , only that he knew it would be useless , and so he merely said : `` Be careful then , Tom ! 
Tom crept away again , and for another two or three minutes Henry awaited his return with his heart in his mouth . 
He listened intently , breathlessly , for every sound ; and once , when the sudden howling of a neighboring wolf came borne to his ear , he started and trembled with the first impression that it was a noise in the camp . 
Henry , as we know , was , for many urgent reasons , most fearfully anxious to be gone , and to him the present mirth of Tom appeared ill-timed and almost cruel . 
He rose to his feet , with all due caution , took one of the guns , and glided away in the direction of the tethered animals , Henry following close behind him . 
The horses were found all near together , about a stone 's throw from the Indian camp . 
Fortunately both Tom and Henry proceeded here with the same silent caution which had already given them so much success . 
Henry , in view of the vital importance his escape might be to Isaline -- still thinking of her rather than of himself , except in so much as his own safety might affect hers -- now trembled like an aspen ; but Tom remained perfectly cool , though he was not a little alarmed . 
returned Henry , who knew from experience how useless it would be to remonstrate with his companion against one of his whims . 
Tom immediately set about his design ; and though the space occupied by the horses was not large , it was nearly a quarter of an hour before he returned to the side of the impatient Henry and announced that all was completed . 
he said . 
Henry , as may readily be believed , was not slow to obey an order he had so long and tremblingly waited for , and almost the next moment he was upon the back of a high-mettled beast and beginning to feel as if he were really breathing the air of freedom . 
cried Henry in alarm , who was riding close enough to be aware of the accident almost as soon as it happened . 
returned Henry , reprovingly ; `` and I hope it will be a warning to you , not to conduct yourself in so wild and boisterous a manner ! '' 
said Henry , in a tone calculated to allay the irritation of the rough borderer . 
anxiously queried Henry . 
`` Harry , '' replied Tom , penitently , coming up to Henry and grasping his hand , `` it war right down beastly in me to be a laughing , like a old fool , with you in sich misery ; and ef I does it ag ` in , may I choke with a green persimmon ! 
cried Henry , with a lover 's wild impatience ; `` and every minute is an age while she remains in such hands ! 
ejaculated Henry . 
groaned Henry . 
anxiously inquired Henry . 
groaned Henry . 
`` Well , my friend , '' sighed Henry , `` you must do what you think best . 
In pursuance of this plan , Tom again mounted his horse , and the two proceeded slowly through the wood for about a mile , descending into a valley and ascending a steep hill , on the summit of which they came to a halt , and there remained through the hours , that seemed like ages to Henry , till light once more banished darkness from the scene . 
said Henry , preparing to remount the horse which he already held by the bridle . 
returned Henry , impatiently ; `` but rather let us be thankful to God for what we did accomplish , and make the best use possible of our present circumstances ! 
As the day wore on to noon , Tom began to think seriously of his empty stomach ; but Henry , lover-like , thought only of the rescue of the fair being who was all the world to him . 
What was food to him -- what was life even -- unless Isaline could be saved from a fate worse than death ? 
repeated Henry , with a look of surprise . 
It was finally agreed that they should continue on to the camp-ground , for Henry was eager to see if the trail left by the horse of Methoto , and subsequently by Blodget and his Indians , was still clear enough to be easily followed , as much of his hope of successful pursuit would depend upon that . 
In less than an hour they reached the eventful place , and Henry fairly trembled with emotions excited by a return to the spot which he had first beheld as a bound and helpless prisoner , and where he had seen the idol of his soul borne away from him by a human beast . 
His first act , on reaching this scene of such painful remembrances , was to leap from his horse and make an eager search for the trail of Methoto and Blodget ; and when he found it , and saw it was possible to follow it , he became so much affected , that he leaned against a tree and shed tears , the first that had filled his eyes since parting from her he so devotedly loved . 
returned Henry ; `` for my brain has all along been on fire , and my heart ready to burst , and this is the first relief I have felt . 
The trail not being fresh , was in many places so obscure that it became slow , tedious work to make it out ; and the impatient Henry , who would have flown on the wings of the wind to the rescue of the being he so devotedly loved , was compelled to toil on at a snail-like pace . 
Thus the day wore away , and Henry groaned in spirit when at last another night shut in the scene and put an end to his search for many a long hour . 
he prayed . 
Itwould be worse than useless to attempt a portrayal of the feelings of Isaline Holcombe as she found herself being borne away by the dreadful Methoto . 
She could not have described them herself , because there are certain sensations of horrid despair for which language has no adequate expression . 
Fancy yourself being carried off by a demon into outer darkness , and you have the nearest approach to what she experienced that can possibly be given . 
She had screamed out in her agony of horror , and then had become silent , though not unconscious . 
She knew and felt and thought rapidly , with a thousand recollections of the past crowding upon her every moment ; but hers was the passively physical state of awful dread and uncertainty of one standing on the drop of the scaffold waiting to be launched into eternity . 
Away and away they sped through the forest , with its gathering gloom of advancing night , Methoto holding her with arms of iron and urging onward his rushing beast . 
She heard the yells of his pursuers for a time , and prayed they might be successful in recapturing her -- for far better , she thought , to be in the hands of savages and near him she loved , than alone in the power of the strange being who was bearing her she knew not whither , nor to what doom . 
`` Squaw girl mine ! '' 
now muttered Methoto , as if to himself , with his strong arms pressing her even closer to him . 
It is one of the mercies of Heaven , that hope , phonix like , often springs into new life from the very ashes of despair ; and so was it now with poor Isaline , in this her darkest hour of trial . 
Her spirits had sunk to the last degree at which consciousness could be retained , and for a time she felt utterly prostrated and helpless -- as if she were nothing but a piece of dull clay in the hands of a fiery potter . 
She was alone with this man , she reasoned -- who , dark and brutalized though he might be , was still human and swayed by selfish passions , such as govern most men , however they may be concealed or displayed -- and why not use her only weapon of self-defence , and play upon his feelings for a righteous purpose -- the protection and salvation of herself ? 
Why had he snatched her away from all others and deserted his companions forever ? 
too selfishly barbarous to be dignified by the holy term of love , and yet not unlike it in some of its effects ! 
Then why not make use of this passion -- which , if left to its wild course , would destroy her -- why not make use of it and mould it and control it to save herself ? 
She had once before tried her powers of fascination on him with the success she sought , and why not again ? 
As he had fled from the Indians in a way that would most probably preclude forever a return to them , might she not persuade him to seek out some of his own race and color , and thus get herself into the hands of men strong enough to take her from his possession and restore her to her father ? 
or if not this , might she not succeed in keeping herself from harm till some opportune moment should arrive for escaping from his vigilance ? 
With this worthy object in view , poor Isaline , with her very soul racked with anguish at the recollection of the terrible events that had been crowded upon her within the last few days , prepared to play a part at such total variance with her feelings that she even shuddered while she contemplated it . 
Summoning all her faculties to her aid , she at length spoke the name of Methoto , in a low , quiet tone . 
Isaline repeated her suggestion in even a more simple form . 
Thenight that Isaline was carried off by Methoto -- that night in which she was exposed to all the perils and suffered all the horrors recorded in the previous chapter -- it has been shown that Henry , owing to a heavy stupor , caused by excessive mental anguish , slept soundly ; the second night , after a hard day 's march , during which he made his escape from the Indians , it has also been shown he did not sleep at all ; the day that followed , on which he and Tom went back on the main trail and set off on the other , proved one of great excitement , perplexity and fatigue ; and it will be remembered we left him , with the third night closing in , in a state of great mental disturbance and depression , praying God to support and aid him . 
While Tom had cooked his venison , and eaten it like a hungry man , laying in a store to supply the present and some portion of the uncertain future , he had had great difficulty in persuading Henry to touch it at all ; and it was not in fact till the old woodman had positively declared that `` ef he did n't fill his holler , like a decent Christian , he 'd see him hanged afore he 'd go a step furder with him arter the gal , '' that he had done anything like justice to his physical requirements . 
sighed Henry , casting himself down and dropping his head upon his hands , as one buried in heavy thought or gloom . 
If Henry heard he did not heed , but still sat with his face buried in his hands ; and after looking at him for a minute , Tom observed : `` Look-a he-yar , younker -- whar 's the use o ' you agwine on in a way that 'll jest spile you fur to-morrow 's work , hey ? '' 
`` I will do my best , '' sighed Henry , `` for I know the folly of losing my rest as well as you ! '' 
said the old scout , with an air of triumph , as Henry started up , rubbed his eyes , and looked quickly and wonderingly around him . 
`` I told you you 'd put her through in no time , and you done it beautiful ! '' 
exclaimed Henry . 
cried Henry . 
As soon as it was light enough to see the trail , they set off at a fast walk , Henry feeling in rather better spirits , because of his night 's rest and the long day he had before him for active work . 
They pursued the trail for several hours , without any incident worthy of note ; when , after ascending a hill which commanded an extensive view , Henry remarked : `` Tom , does it not strike you that we have been a long way round , and are now coming back to something near where we started ? '' 
prayed Henry . 
Some two hours after this , they came to the stream where , it will be remembered , Methoto broke the trail by walking his horse down the bed of it for something like a mile . 
Tom and Henry did indeed work for hours , with the most unremitting diligence , before they could find where the horse of Methoto had again struck off through the forest -- the search of the party before them making matters worse instead of better ; and when at last they did find it , Henry saw , with a feeling of dismay akin to despair , that the sun was only some two or three hours above the horizon . 
he groaned ; `` I fear it is fated I shall never behold my dear Isaline again ! '' 
groaned Henry . 
At last they reached the hill , up which the doomed beast had panted and struggled at the end of his last journey ; and on gaining the top of it , and looking down over the fearful cliff , upon the stony beach and the flowing waters of the Kentucky River , Henry suddenly clutched the arm of his companion , and , with eyes wildly glaring with horror , almost shrieked forth the words : `` God of mercy ! 
he said , in a voice made husky by such powerful emotions as he had seldom or never felt before in his eventful life ; and he drew the almost frantic Henry back from the dizzy verge and the horrid sight that lay below . 
Henry groaned a few times , like one in mortal agony ; and then , disengaging himself from the embrace of his rough but sympathetic companion , he sunk down on the ground , clasped his temples with his two hands , and rocked himself to and fro in a fearful silence . 
For some two or three minutes Henry continued to clasp his temples and rock himself in silence , as if trying to compress his swelling , throbbing brain , and keep himself from going mad . 
Then he burst out , in a long , agonized moan , that was frightful to hear . 
It was a moan that seemed to well up from the very depths of his innermost soul , quiver through every nerve and fibre of his mortal being , and at last find vent in a wail of unutterable woe . 
cried Henry , starting to his feet ; `` come ! 
By going upward a short distance , our two friends found a place where they could descend the cliff ; and a few minutes later they reached the tragic scene , and began to move carefully and searchingly among the white bones -- Henry , pale as a ghost , trembling so that he could scarcely stand . 
`` It is strange , '' said Henry at length , in a tremulous tone , stopping and looking almost wildly into the face of Tom , `` it is very strange that I have seen nothing yet that looks like herbones ! '' 
gasped Henry , grasping an arm of his companion with both hands , and trembling so that his teeth chattered . 
For nearly a minute Henry tried to speak before he could articulate another syllable ; and then the words came out slowly and gaspingly : `` Tom -- do you -- think it possible -- she was not -- killed -- and has escaped -- with life ? '' 
cried Henry , almost beside himself with a strange , wild hope . 
Henry mechanically followed his companion up to the higher ground , where Tom soon collected the materials and started another fire ; and there they passed another night -- a most wretched night to Henry , who could not sleep for thinking of poor Isaline . 
His hope now was that she had been carried off alive by Blodget and his Indians , and that he and his companion might possibly pursue and overtake them ; but what would he have thought , and how would he have felt , had he even dreamed that she had been spirited away by the dread Phantom of the Forest ? 
Assoon as it was light on the following morning , Henry , who had passed a wretched night , began his search for the trail of the Indians , assisted by Tom . 
said Henry , with stern determination . 
returned Henry . 
said Henry , with an anxious , impatient look . 
One thing now troubled Henry not a little , even beyond all his other troubles , and that was that no discovery had as yet been made which proved that Isaline was among the savages . 
groaned Henry . 
Before noon he was again fortunate enough to kill a deer ; and having eaten of this to satiety , and persuaded Henry to do the same , he did as before , cooked up a few pounds to take with them . 
but , Tom , if Blodget 's party succeed in joining the main body , '' sighed Henry , `` what chance have we two against so many ? '' 
`` Let us hurry on then , '' rejoined Henry , `` and know the worst as soon as possible . 
`` By-the-way , Tom , '' observed Henry , `` a new idea occurs to me . 
whispered Henry , after listening intently for a few moments and hearing nothing . 
said Henry . 
In less than ten minutes they appeared upon the summit -- horses and men -- white men -- borderers -- the division which , some days before , had struck off across the country , at the time that Tom and Henry , with their ill-fated companions , had pursued the direct trail . 
Henry burst into tears ; and Tom sent forth a dozen yells , intended for the wildest delight , but which actually startled the approaching party into the belief that they were about to be assailed by a band of savages . 
Henry ran too , but he could not keep up with his rough companion . 
By the time he reached the party , Tom had shaken hands with more than half of the men present , and was still whooping and shouting in the midst of them . 
All this Henry saw , with a wild glance , as he came panting up , and his heart beat strangely . 
Henry felt his heart sink and brain swim . 
He threw his eyes rapidly over the whole group , and saw that all had dismounted except one man , whose back was toward him . 
They brought him up to the top of the hill , and he fairly gnashed his teeth at the sight of Henry and Tom . 
Both Tom and Henry looked in the direction indicated ; and there , not fifty feet distant , they beheld , what they had not before observed , the pale face and cowering form of Blodget , who was standing between two men , with his arms bound behind his back , in the manner he had compelled the prisoners to march with the savages . 
Tom uttered a fierce yell of savage delight and sprung toward him ; but , quick though he was , Henry was before him . 
`` Stand off ! '' 
he said ; `` not a word till I shall have done questioning him ! '' 
gasped Henry , catching hold of Tom for support , and preparing himself to hear the worst . 
groaned Henry , with a reeling brain . 
groaned Henry ; `` but I have little or no hope now , my friend ! 
Tom and Henry were required to give in their testimony , and no other witnesses were needed . 
Sad , silent , drooping , like one who no longer had any object or aim in life , Henry marched on with the rest , till they came nearly opposite the place , though still some miles distant , where Methoto had met his death , when he quietly announced to the party that there he should leave them , as he was going another way . 
They all knew his sorrow and respected it , and several rough but kindly voices inquired if there was anything they could do for him . 
`` No ! '' 
sighed Henry ; `` I thank you -- no ! '' 
No one seemed to feel he had a right to question him except Rough Tom ; and he , with a look of surprise and anxiety , drew Henry aside and said : `` What is it , Harry ? 
said Henry , proffering his hand ; `` never mind , my brave friend ! 
`` Tom , '' rejoined Henry , with melaneholy solemnity , `` I know you mean well ; but why seek to inspire me with a hope in which you do not believe yourself ? 
said Henry , with choking emotions . 
groaned Henry . 
Henry groaned and shook his head . 
`` It is useless for you to talk to me , '' sighed Henry , `` for the die is cast , my hopes are dead , my heart is with the remains of my sweet beloved -- I can not say in the grave with them -- for , alas and alas , they have not had burial ! 
Tom , '' he continued , grasping the rough woodman 's hard , horny hand , and speaking in a tremulous voice , half choked with emotion , `` you have been a true and faithful friend to me , God bless you ! 
Henry made no further objections to accepting the company of Tom -- for he knew from experience how useless it would be to argue against a point that his resolute , determined , stubborn companion had fully settled upon -- and so both took leave of their companions , and struck off together for the Kentucky River , and the scene of that fearful disaster which had filled the soul of the lover with such crushing grief . 
if Henry had but known , while groaning forth his despair , that she was living and within the reach of his voice ! 
She thought of Henry , who had been carried off to meet a cruel doom , and a keen pang pierced her heart . 
These savages were the Indian father and brothers of Methoto , and he was the white man alluded to ; and it will be remembered he gave an account of this very tragedy , in reply to the questions of Henry , on the night that he and Isaline lodged under his roof on the bank of the Licking . 
And what may seem strange and curious , as showing the mysterious workings of Providence , Methoto owed his death to the very girl whose mother and sister he had helped to murder ; for it was her wild shriek that had so startled him and his beast and led to the fall over the cliff ; and subsequently , by parrying the thrust he made at her with his knife , that weapon had , it may be said by her hand , been driven into his bowels , inflicting a mortal wound . 
Thus had fearful retribution come upon him from the right source of justice . 
`` Is it Henry you want ? '' 
`` Henry ? '' 
cried Isaline , in startled surprise ; `` what do you know of Henry ? '' 
`` You have been talking of Henry for so long , and would not call me Helen once ! '' 
For a few moments Isaline struggled to speak , and then she fairly shrieked forth : `` Henry ! 
dear , dear Henry ! '' 
Then there was a rush of steps through the passage-way , and the next moment Henry Colburn stood in the presence of Isaline Holcombe . 
Itwas a scene for a painter : Henry , wild with hope , standing in the dim light of the cave , striving to pierce the gloom and fix his eyes upon her who had called him as from the grave ; Tom stealing up behind him , full of doubt and fear ; Isaline , raised to a sitting posture , breathless and speechless , her hands clasped before her and her features radiant with joy ; and lastly poor Mary , with the hairy mask still on her face , cowering down behind her and quaking with terror . 
spoke Henry , as one would ask some dread question in a charnel-vault , trembling lest he had made some fearful mistake , for as yet he could not see clearly . 
The next moment he was kneeling by her side , clasping her in his arms , and soul was mingling with soul . 
At last , when Henry drew back his head to gaze once more upon the sweet face of the idol of his soul , he started as one who receives a sudden shock . 
he cried . 
`` I have been ill , dear Henry -- very ill , I suppose -- though I have no remembrance of it . '' 
`` But you are now , dear Henry , thank God ! 
And yet the Indians , dear Henry -- the Indians -- are we not in danger from them now ? '' 
exclaimed Henry , springing to his feet , his memory also recalled , and gazing with horrified amazement upon the poor lunatic ; `` is that strange object a human being ? 
Both Henry and Tom uttered wild exclamations of surprise , and the former sprung to the poor girl , dropped down by her side , and cried , in an agitated voice : `` God forgive me for firing at her and wounding her ! 
explained Henry . 
He kept on with his exclamations , while Henry hurriedly proceeded to examine the wound he had himself inflicted . 
Fortunately his aim had not been steady , and the ball , sped at the life of the supposed Phantom , had passed through the fleshy portion of her arm , without severing an artery or doing her any serious injury . 
He cut away the covering of skins around it , and bound it up with a strip torn from the lining of his own coat -- poor Helen , now apparently satisfied that she had nothing more to fear , looking on quietly , and even smiling . 
When at last all was completed , he said : `` There , my poor girl , I thank God I did you no greater harm ! 
returned Henry . 
asked Henry , playfully . 
smiled Henry ; `` and perhaps you were not the only one who saw fire and brimstone , blue blazes , and several other things ! '' 
rejoined Henry ; `` the best of us are liable to mistakes ; and I fervently thank God that we have all made them in some things , and that all has ended so happily for us ! '' 
He then turned to Isaline , and put many tender inquiries concerning her present condition and her wonderful escape , and was thrilled with horror at her recital of her fall over the cliff and the fearful events that had followed . 
`` Of food I have tasted none , dear Henry , since I was carried off by Methoto ! '' 
cried Henry , all aghast . 
exclaimed Henry . 
`` Not quite , I think , '' replied Henry , `` but at least some five or six days . '' 
said Henry , in a tremulous voice . 
said Henry . 
`` And now , dear Henry , you must tell me about yourself , and by what mercy of Heaven I see you here ! '' 
`` Ah , dear Henry , what an end for those three white men -- Hampton , Blodget and Methoto ! '' 
`` It is not for me to judge , dear Henry , '' replied Isaline , solemnly : `` let us leave them in the hands of God ! '' 
`` All has been for the best , dear Henry ! '' 
replied Henry ; `` and when I cease to thank Him , I shall deserve to lose the happiness which now I feel . 
`` You wanted to kill me , '' now joined in the poor girl , who had remained a quiet listener to Henry 's narrative ; `` but God would n't permit it ! 
said Henry . 
`` After I had learned from Blodget , on the evening before his execution , that he had seen nothing of you , dear Isaline , either living or dead , '' replied Henry , `` I believed you were lost to me forever , and felt as if I had nothing more to live for . 
`` Were you indeed here last night , dear Henry ? '' 
said Helen to Henry . 
shuddered Henry ; `` and to think that on that night , of all nights , I was sleeping soundly in the Indian camp ! 
`` Providence sent you that sleep to save you from madness , dear Henry ! '' 
`` At least I will endeavor to think so , '' answered Henry , `` for otherwise I must severely blame myself -- though I could have done nothing for you then , dearest , even had I been at liberty . 
`` God bless you , dear Henry ! '' 
answered Henry , folding the lovely girl to his heart . 
cried Henry , with a joyous hope . 
He immediately set off , and Henry remained with Isaline and Helen , passing the time very happily till his return with the horses , which cost him so long a search that it was late in the afternoon before his welcome shout was once more heard . 
Isaline had been steadily improving under the watchful care of Henry ; but it was now thought best to pass still another night in the cave , which was accordingly done . 
After Colonel Holcombe had heard the whole story of his daughter 's sufferings , perils , hairbreadth escapes , wonderful preservations , and the devotion of the two brave men who had at last brought her safely to his arms , he took Tom and Henry aside . 
First giving his hand to the old woodman , he said , in a faltering voice , and with tear-dimmed eyes : `` Tom Sturgess , my brave , noble fellow , God bless you ! 
`` And to you , my friend , '' pursued the Colonel , grasping Henry 's hand in turn , `` I have only one thing to say . 
Henry struggled to speak , but his tongue would not articulate , and so he wrung the Colonel 's hand in silence . 
A few days later , Rough Tom danced at the wedding of Henry Colburn and Isaline Holcombe -- one of the brightest , gayest and happiest ever seen in the wilds of Kentucky . 
Some three years after her marriage with Henry , Isaline was agreeably surprised to find she had fallen heir , by will , to the great fortune of her mother 's half uncle , in England , Sir Joshua Speed -- the same fortune , it will be remembered , to obtain which , through the possession of herself , had led Charles Hampton , alias Stephen Rogers , to concoct the wicked plot that in the end had cost him his life . 
