These societies have increased amazingly since the literary club , founded by Dr. Johnson , Goldsmith , Burke , and others , became known , by their attendance at the funeral of David Garrick , the celebrated actor , who was a member . 
I owe no obligations to the biographers who exhibit to me the Duke of Marlborough `` saving a groat '' -- Addison and Parnel in their cups -- Dean Swift lampooning good Mrs. Sheridan , at Quilca -- or the moral Dr. Johnson belabouring Osborn , the printer , with a folio . 
Mr. Boswell , one of the most fashionable of these anti-biographers , apologizes for the insertion of several anecdotes , very discreditable to Dr. Johnson , by the moral obligation of a strict adherence to truth ; but he should have reflected that the truth is not violated by the omission of facts immaterial to the great object of relation . 
-- Although he can not boast of originality , Dr. Johnson set the fashion of this gossiping biography . 
In his lives of the British poets , he was sedulous to collect those little ana which make weak readers laugh and wise men grieve . 
From him we learn that Addison tippled , and his wife was a termagant ; that Prior affected sordid converse in base company , and that his Chloe was a despicable drab ; that Pope was a glutton , and fell a sacrifice to a silver sauce-pan , in which it was his delight to heat potted lampries ; and that Rag Smith was a sloven . 
When I first read Johnson 's Lives of the British Poets I regretted those littlenesses , but when I read his life of the immortal Milton , the latchet of whose shoes -LRB- with reverence be it spoken -RRB- he was not worthy to unloose , I then hoped I should live to see the day when some biographer of his own school might write this author 's life , and mete out to him the measure he meted unto others . 
I have lived to be fully gratified -- I have read the life of Samuel Johnson , L. L. D. by Mrs. Hester Thrale , Sir John Hawkins , and James Boswell , Esq. . 
From some of these motives a long and severe contest has been maintained upon Macpherson 's translation of the Poems of Ossian , in which the great Dr. Johnson , styled by these moderns the Colossus of English literature , took a decided part . 
He insisted that he would not credit the translation as genuine until he saw the original Erse manuscripts ; -- as if poetry could not exist without being written . 
The Scotch enthusiastically admire them ; and if what is now held by them to be a translation from the ancient Erse could be proved , to their satisfaction , to have been fabricated , they would admire it the more , because it was made by a Scotchman -- that is , if the character given of that people by Dr. Johnson , and related to me by an old gentleman , Mr. J. M ***** , who was in habits of intimacy with that Diogenes of modern colloquy , be correct . 
-- On a certain occasion , when the authenticity of the Poems of Ossian was the common topic , and Dr. Johnson was disgusting every man of common sensibility who unfortunately disagreed with him on that subject , Mr. M ***** modestly observed , `` Doctor , there are many learned , `` and even pious men in Scotland , who `` profess to be convinced that the transla `` tion is a correct version of the originals ; `` they , certainly , are possessed of the best `` means of detecting imposition if any `` exists ; may I not place , safely , some `` reliance on their testimony ? '' 
Johnson -- `` No , sir , you can not , safely , rely on them ; `` a Scot , sir , prizes a national fiction more `` than an exotic truism . '' 
The old gentleman mentioned , with apparent chagrin , that he had sent this anecdote to Mr. Boswell , one of the biographers of Dr. Johnson , but as it was accompanied with one not quite so respectful to a nobleman whom Boswell was then flattering , he imagined as that biographer could not decently insert the one without the other , he had concluded to omit both . 
Mr. M ***** added he had hopes of having them both published in a note , stating Boswell 's sycophancy , in an expected new edition of Sir John Hawkins 's life of Johnson , which , he observed , after all , gave the most accurate picture of the great moralist , although rather in the Rembrandt style . 
The Scotch after having sustained with fortitude and success the repeated attacks of Johnson and his coadjutors , are now attacked more seriously , from an unexpected p408-148 quarter . 
Johnson disputed the existence of the Erse originals -- the Irish have since acknowledged their existence , but insist , with some show of argument , that the bard with his harp and heroes were all Irish , and charge Macpherson with having garbled the original text to give to Ossian , his beauties and his warriors , a `` local `` habitation and a name '' in Scotland . 
For if I had power to summon a convocation of English literati , and could raise up Bentley as their president and Dr. Johnson as their secretary , it is not probable that this learned and critical body could unite a majority in favour of any one author . 
