General Littlepage did not survive the war , though it was not his good fortune to die on the field , thus identifying his name with the history of his country . 
I am far from certain that general Littlepage was considered a corner post in the Temple of Freedom that the army was endeavouring to rear , but he was quite respectable as a militia officer , while my father was very generally admitted to be one of the best lieutenants-colonel in the whole army . 
I regarded Anneke , or Mrs. Kettletas , much as all youths regard an elder sister , who is affectionate , feminine and respectable ; but little Katrinke , or Kate , was my pet . 
Of course , I never intended to marry , but Kate and I were to live together ; she as my housekeeper and companion , and I as her elder brother and protector . 
Mooseridge had been originally patented by my grandfather , the first general Littlepage , and oldcolonel Follock , he who had been slain and scalped early in the war ; but , on the descent of his moiety of the tenantry in common to Dirck Follock , my grandfather conveyed his interest to his own son , who , ere long , must become its owner , agreeably to the laws of nature . 
His horse was stabled alongside of mine , and I soon found that he himself was at work on the remnants of my supper , as they retreated towards the kitchen . 
Kate laughed , and wept , and hugged me , just as she would have done five years earlier , though she was now a lovely young woman , turned of nineteen . 
As the roads had been much neglected in the war , we went in the saddle , Kate being one of the most spirited horsewomen of my acquaintance . 
It was just nine , on a fine May morning , when Kate Littlepage and myself rode through the outer gate of Lilacsbush , and issued upon the old , well-known , Kingsbridge road . 
This terminated the discourse ; for , by this time , I had enough of it ; and making my bow , Kate and I rode on . 
`` What could the old woman mean , Kate , '' I abruptly commenced , `` by saying there would now be light hearts and happy ones among the Bayards ? '' 
Kate spoke with so much earnestness that I was disposed to take a look at her . 
Kate laughed ; then she was pleased to tell me that I was to consider myself the friend of all of the name . 
Kate had a brilliant complexion , in common ; but , as I now turned my eyes towards her inquiringly , more in mischief , however , than with the expectation of learning anything new , I saw the roses of her cheeks expand until they covered her temples . 
My eye was on Kate the whole time , and I fancied she looked gratified , though she still looked confused . 
`` That is somewhat personal , '' said Kate , laughing , `` as I happen to be the only ` young folk ' at the ` Bush , to maintain the said intimacy . 
Although it was not easy , at least not easy for me , to cause Kate Littlepage to hold her tongue , it was not easy for her to cause the tell-tale blood always to remain stationary . 
`` I am notthe betrothed to Tom Bayard , and have not been waiting for your return to give him my hand , '' answered Kate , steadily . 
Kate said this with feeling , and I thanked her with my eyes , but could not have spoken , and did not speak , until we had ridden some distance . 
Kate laughed with all her heart , but I fancied she looked conscious . 
`` Never '' -- said Kate , with emphasis . 
Kate Littlepage 's face was scarlet . 
Dear , dear Kate ; from her childhood I had my own amusement with her , though I do not remember anything like a harsh expression , or an unkind feeling , that has ever passed , or indeed existed , between us . 
At length , the love of fair-dealing , and love of me , prevailed over a factitious shame ; the colour settled back to those cheeks whence it had appeared to flash , as it might be , remaining just enough heightened to be remarked , and Kate looked towards me in a way that denoted all the sisterly confidence and regard that she actually felt . 
`` He was , Mordaunt , '' answered Kate , in a low voice . 
Kate laughed ; but , as she did not look much confused , or at all alarmed , I was induced to believe that more important encouragement than could be afforded by means of her wish of marrying meto her suitor 's sister , had been given master Tom , and that my disapproval of the gentleman would cause her more concern than she chose to avow . 
`` When am I to see this paragon young man , and paragon young woman , Kate , since see both I must ? '' 
Kate again laughed , and told me I might make my own observations on that point , and judge for myself . 
From Kate 's remark I had discovered we had been invited by letter to take this excursion , though the ceremony of sending the negro across with his message had been observed for reasons that were not very natural under the circumstances . 
said Kate , after we had parted from the black . 
The first glance at the latter told me that he was a `` proper man ; '' and by the second , I got the pleasing assurance that he had no eye , just then , but for Kate . 
My father , was Corny ; my mother , Anneke ; Katrinke , Kate ; and I was Mordy , or Mord ; or , when there was no hurry , Mordaunt . 
Kate and Pris . 
Perhaps Kate , in their confidential moments , may have said something to this effect ; or , I may have been mistaken . 
As we were accustomed to such plans , neither Kate nor myself raised the least objection , while the Bayards submitted to orders which I soon discovered even they were not unused to , with perfect good-will and submission . 
Away we went , then , the four of us , Kate leading the way , as the person most familiar with the `` capabilities . '' 
The girls joined us before we had got altogether into another vein of discourse , and I was a little chagrined at finding that Kate entered rather more into her admirer 's views of such subjects than comported with the true feelings , as I fancied , of a Littlepage , after all that had passed . 
It seemed natural enough that Kate should begin to look at things of this nature with the eyes of the man she had made up her mind to marry ; but it looked far more like management in her friend , who belonged to a tory family , to volunteer so freely the sentiments of one she could not yet love , inasmuch as until that day she had never even seen him . 
cried Kate , in triumph . 
We immediately joined our companions , and by one of those crossings over and figurings in , that are so familiar to the young of the two sexes , we were soon walking along the sands again , Tom at Kate 's side , and I at that of Priscilla Bayard 's . 
`` We are strangers to each other , while Tom Bayard and Kate Littlepage are acquaintances of years ' standing . 
Next , I proclaim Kate Littlepage to be her own mistress , so far as her brother Mordaunt is concerned ; and lastly , I announce that I see or know nothing in the character , connections , fortune , person , or position of her suitor , Thomas Bayard , of the Hickories , Esquire , that is in the least below her pretensions or merits . 
`` How is it possible that any of you could consider my notions of so much importance , when Kate has a father , a mother , and a grandmother living , all of whom , as I understand things , approve of her choice ? '' 
Kate is for ever saying ` my brother says this , ' ` my brother writes that , ' ` my brother does t ` other ; ' and , as for the old lady here , at the ` Toe , ' she would hardly think her peaches and cherries could ripen , unless Mordaunt Littlepage , the son of herson Corny Littlepage -- by no accident does she ever call him ` general ' -- were on the face of the earth , to create an eternal sunshine ! '' 
My dear mother , herself , has been half a tory the whole war ; and Kate , I find , has imbibed all her charity . '' 
Kate and I remained at Satanstoe several days , and Tom Bayard was a daily visitor ; the distance between the Neck and the Hickories being no great matter . 
`` Well , Mordaunt , '' the good old lady at length continued , `` how do you like this choice of your sister Kate 's ? 
Has Kate actually made up her mind ? '' 
` It would not be right , grandmother , for me to engage myself , while Mordaunt is away , and without his even knowing the gentleman ; so I will not answer until I get his approbation too , ' said Kate . 
`` You should never ask unpleasant questions , saucy fellow ; though I dare to say Kate would , at least , have asked Mr. Bayard to wait until you had changed your mind . 
But , all that is unnecessary , as matters are ; for you have expressed your approbation , and Kate is perfectly happy . 
-- so Kate wrote an acceptance yesterday , and it was as prettily expressed a note as I have seen in many a day . 
Kate is a dear , good girl , and I love her as much as a brother can love a sister . '' 
Well , now , Mordaunt , when Kate is married , you will be the only one left . '' 
If Kate marry the brother , may I not be excused for overlooking the attractions of the sister ? '' 
Kate I shall see often during the pleasant season , I trust ; but this is to be the last of Mordaunt , until the cold weather return . '' 
-- That is a pretty name , though one might like it better , I think , Kate , were it Dovesnest , or Robinsnest , or Wrensnest . 
Kate probably saw this too , for she continued to converse about my journey , even after her friend had drawn a little on one side ; and that , too , in a manner which seemed to say shewas done . 
I was afraid even to ask her to accept a ribbon , as I should not hesitate to do to Kate here , or any other young lady with whom I was intimate . 
As soon as the meal was ended , our horses were brought round , and Kate and I took our leave , Jaap having preceded us as usual , an hour or more , with our luggage . 
But young ladies liked the saddle twenty-five years ago , more than they do to-day ; and Kate , being a capital horsewoman , like her mother before her , we were often out together . 
`` This is not the way to win a lady 's heart , Mordaunt , '' cried Kate , gaily . 
`` And why not from yourself , Miss Prude , '' added Kate , who seemed bent on causing her friend some confusion . 
`` Then I am to lose you , Kate , almost as soon as I find you , '' I said , a little despondingly . 
Kate was a little offended , so she made me no answer . 
Kate 's face was happiness itself , as she sat in the saddle listening to the crone ; and my countenance is not one of ill-nature . 
My mother was next to me , and reasonably close ; for I did not not smoke while aunt Mary and Kate had taken post , just without the influence of the tobacco . 
Five hundred goot acres must be surveyed off for sister Anneke , and five hundred for pretty Kate , here . 
`` A great deal , it would seem ; since she tells me they are fast friends : quite as great , I should judge from Miss Bayard 's language and manner , as Kate and herself . '' 
My dear , dear mother had tears in her eyes , when she embraced me ; so had Kate , who , though she did love Tom Bayard most , loved me very warmly too . 
The whites were weeping ; that is to say , my dear mother and Kate ; and the blacks were laughing , though the old lady kept her teeth to herself about as much as she exposed them . 
Even Jaap had his share ; and `` good-bye , Jaap , '' came to my ears , from even the sweet voice of Kate . 
If my grandmother cheerfully consent , and my parents do the same ; and my sister Kettletas and her husband , and my laughing , merry Kate , then Dus will accept me . '' 
Bayard and Kate , with all their advantages of dress , and freedom from exposure , far into the shade . 
If gin ` ral Littlepage makes a p ` int of any thing of the sort , I 'll engage no one of my family , in all futur ' time , shall ever squat on any lands he may happen to lay claim to , whether he owns 'em or not . '' 
I was startled at this information , foreseeing at once that it would bring not only the general himself , but my dear mother and Kate , with Tom Bayard quite likely in her train , post haste to Ravensnest . 
As we drew slowly near , the whole procession on foot , I discovered the persons of my own dear parents , that of colonel Follock , those of Kate , Pris . 
Kate afterwards told me we made an imposing and solemn appearance , as we came up to the gate of Ravensnest , bearing the body of Chainbearer . 
I came next to Tom and Priscilla , Kate pressing up to my side , and placing her arm in mine , without speaking . 
Kate did pretty much the same , though she said nothing . 
`` Here comes Kate , with a face which announces that she is fully mistress of the secret , '' I put in , perceiving my sister coming round our angle of the building , with a countenance which I knew betokened that her mind and heart were full . 
`` Do n't mind me , Kate , '' returned I , smiling -- `` My heart will never be broken by Miss Priscilla Bayard . '' 
`` The meaning , then , is this , '' said Kate . 
They say , too , but I do n't think thatcan have had any influence , for Mr. Bayard and his wife are particularly disinterested people , as indeed are all the family '' -- added Kate , hesitatingly and looking down : `` but they saythat the death of some young man will probably leave Mr. Malbone the heir of an aged cousin of his late father 's . '' 
The information Kate possessed had come from Priscilla Bayard , who obtained it from Frank , as a matter of course ; and my sister subsequently admitted to me that her friend 's happiness was augmented by the knowledge that I should not be a sufferer by her earlier preference for Malbone , and that she was likely to have me for a brother-in-law . 
All this I gleaned from Kate , in our subsequent conferences . 
Anneke , and Kate , and Pris . 
were married , as were Tom and Kate , at no great distance of time after ourselves . 
Anneke and Kate have received fair portions of this property , including much that belonged to Colonel Follock , who now lives altogether with my parents . 
