Jack Martin was a tall , strapping , broad-shouldered youth of eighteen , with a handsome , good-humoured , firm face . 
He had had a good education , was clever and hearty and lion-like in his actions , but mild and quiet in disposition . 
Jack was a general favourite , and had a peculiar fondness for me . 
youngster , '' cried Jack Martin , giving me a slap on the shoulder , the day I joined the ship , `` come below and I 'll show you your berth . 
Jack was right . 
He and I and Peterkin afterwards became the best and stanchest friends that ever tossed together on the stormy waves . 
Jack and I had it for dinner , and found it remarkably good . 
`` Come boys , '' said Jack Martin , in a grave tone , to me and Peterkin , as we stood on the quarterdeck awaiting our fate ; -- `` Come boys , we three shall stick together . 
We gladly agreed to follow Jack , for he inspired us with confidence , although I could perceive , by the sad tone of his voice , that he had little hope ; and , indeed , when I looked at the white waves that lashed the reef and boiled against the rocks as if in fury , I felt that there was but a step between us and death . 
Our oar got entangled with the wreck , and Jack seized an axe to cut it free , but , owing to the motion of the ship , he missed the cordage and struck the axe deep into the oar . 
I thought of being wrecked far far away from my native land , and slowly opened my eyes to meet those of my companion Jack , who , with a look of intense anxiety , was gazing into my face . 
`` Speak to us , my dear Ralph , '' whispered Jack , tenderly , `` are you better now ? '' 
I smiled and looked up , saying , `` Better ; why , what do you mean , Jack ? 
`` Come , come , Ralph , '' said Jack , pressing me gently backward , `` lie down , my boy ; you 're not right yet . 
There now , do n't say a word , hold your tongue , '' said he , seeing me about to speak . 
do n't stop him from speaking , Jack , '' said Peterkin , who , now that his fears for my safety were removed , busied himself in erecting a shelter of broken branches in order to protect me from the wind ; which , however , was almost unnecessary , for the rock beside which I had been laid completely broke the force of the gale . 
`` Let him speak , Jack ; it 's a comfort to hear that he 's alive , after lying there stiff and white and sulky for a whole hour , just like an Egyptian mummy . 
`` Hush , Peterkin , '' said Jack , `` you 're exciting Ralph with your nonsense . 
`` Well , well , be that as it may , '' continued Jack , `` you clung to him , Ralph , till I feared you really would choke him ; but I saw that he had a good hold of the oar , so I exerted myself to the utmost to push you towards the shore , which we luckily reached without much trouble , for the water inside the reef is quite calm . '' 
Jack shook his head . 
`` But the more I think about it , I 've better hope of them , '' continued Jack , in a more cheerful tone . 
`` But what has become of the wreck , Jack ? 
`` No , she has not gone to pieces , but she has gone to the bottom , '' replied Jack . 
There was a long silence after Jack ceased speaking , and I have no doubt that each was revolving in his mind our extraordinary position . 
I knew that we were on an island , for Jack had said so , but whether it was inhabited or not I did not know . 
exclaimed Jack , while a smile overspread his hearty countenance . 
You shall be king , Jack ; Ralph , prime minister , and I shall be -- '' `` The court jester , '' interrupted Jack . 
I shall merely accept a highly responsible situation under government , for you see , Jack , I 'm fond of having an enormous salary and nothing to do . '' 
`` But to be serious , '' said Jack , assuming a grave expression of countenance , which I observed always had the effect of checking Peterkin 's disposition to make fun of everything , `` we are really in rather an uncomfortable position . 
`` Well , that 's better than nothing ; but come , '' said Jack , rising , `` we are wasting our time in talking instead of doing . 
We examine into our personal property , and make a happy discovery -- Our island described -- Jack proves himself to be learned and sagacious above his fellows -- Curious discoveries -- Natural lemonade ! 
Indeed it was with difficulty that Jack got it out of my grasp when I was lying insensible on the shore . 
Our sixth article was a brass ring which Jack always wore on his little finger . 
I never understood why he wore it , for Jack was not vain of his appearance , and did not seem to care for ornaments of any kind . 
Jack wore a red flannel shirt , a blue jacket , and a red Kilmarnock bonnet or night-cap , besides a pair of worsted socks , and a cotton pocket-handkerchief , with sixteen portraits of Lord Nelson printed on it , and a union Jack in the middle . 
He had no jacket , having thrown it off just before we were cast into the sea ; but this was not of much consequence , as the climate of the island proved to be extremely mild ; so much so , indeed , that Jack and I often preferred to go about without our jackets . 
While we were examining these things , and talking about them , Jack suddenly started and exclaimed -- `` The oar ! 
`` Ay , lad , '' replied Jack , `` but there 's a bit of hoop iron at the end of it , and that may be of much use to us . '' 
I still felt a little weak from loss of blood , so that my companions soon began to leave me behind ; but Jack perceived this , and , with his usual considerate good nature , turned back to help me . 
`` What an odd fellow he is , to be sure , '' said Jack , taking me by the arm and hurrying forward ; `` come , let us hasten to see what it is . '' 
On coming up we found that Peterkin was vainly endeavouring to pull the axe out of the oar , into which , it will be remembered , Jack struck it while endeavouring to cut away the cordage among which it had become entangled at the bow of the ship . 
that is capital indeed , '' cried Jack , at the same time giving the axe a wrench that plucked it out of the tough wood . 
Jack went down on his knees , and with the edge of the axe began carefully to force out the nails . 
`` Now , lads , '' said Jack , after we had laid it on the stone which contained our little all , `` I propose that we should go to the tail of the island , where the ship struck , which is only a quarter of a mile off , and see if anything else has been thrown ashore . 
cried Peterkin and I together , as , indeed , we would have agreed to any proposal that Jack made ; for , besides his being older and much stronger and taller than either of us , he was a very clever fellow , and I think would have induced people much older than himself to choose him for their leader , especially if they required to be led on a bold enterprise . 
`` What shall we do , Jack ? '' 
`` No fear , '' replied Jack , confidently ; `` I have observed that a few of them are not unlike some of the berries that grow wild on our own native hills . 
But look up there , Peterkin , '' continued Jack , pointing to the branched head of a cocoa-nut palm . 
`` You had better keep them till we return , '' said Jack . 
`` So be it , captain , go ahead , '' cried Peterkin , thrusting the nuts into his trousers pocket . 
I say , Jack , how does it happen that you seem to be up to everything ? 
`` I 'm not up to everything , Peterkin , as you 'll find out ere long , '' replied Jack , with a smile ; `` but I have been a great reader of books of travel and adventure all my life , and that has put me up to a good many things that you are , perhaps , not acquainted with . '' 
`` Oh , Jack , that 's all humbug . 
`` You are quite right , '' retorted Jack ; `` and I have seen a lot of fellows who never looked into books at all , who knew nothing about anything except the things they had actually seen , and very little they knew even about these . 
`` Neither would I , '' said Jack ; `` but that 's no reason why you should run books down , or think less of me for having read them . 
Jack , you 're a philosopher , and that 's worse than anything ! '' 
`` Very well , Peterkin , we shall see , '' returned Jack , halting under the shade of a cocoa-nut tree . 
Peterkin looked surprised , but , seeing that Jack was in earnest , he obeyed . 
`` Now , cut a hole in it with your penknife , and clap it to your mouth , old fellow , '' said Jack . 
I say , Jack , you 're a Briton -- the best fellow I ever met in my life . 
I handed the nut to Jack , who , after tasting it , said , `` Now , Peterkin , you unbeliever , I never saw or tasted a cocoa nut in my life before , except those sold in shops at home ; but I once read that the green nuts contain that stuff , and you see it is true ! '' 
`` A hollow kernel , '' answered Jack , `` with a liquid like milk in it ; but it does not satisfy thirst so well as hunger . 
My first thought on seeing them was that our dear captain had been drowned ; but Jack soon put my mind more at rest on that point , by saying that if the captain had been drowned with the boots on , he would certainly have been washed ashore along with them , and that he had no doubt whatever he had kicked them off while in the sea , that he might swim more easily . 
Peterkin immediately put them on , but they were so large that , as Jack said , they would have done for boots , trousers , and vest too . 
I also tried them , but , although I was long enough in the legs for them , they were much too large in the feet for me ; so we handed them to Jack , who was anxious to make me keep them , but as they fitted his large limbs and feet as if they had been made for him , I would not hear of it , so he consented at last to use them . 
I may remark , however , that Jack did not use them often , as they were extremely heavy . 
said Peterkin , while we both turned our eyes to Jack , to whom we always looked in our difficulties . 
Jack seemed not a little perplexed . 
`` There are flints enough , no doubt , on the beach , '' said he , `` but they are of no use at all without a steel . 
So saying , he went to the beach , and soon returned with two flints . 
On one of these he placed the tinder , and endeavoured to ignite it ; but it was with great difficulty that a very small spark was struck out of the flints , and the tinder , being a bad , hard piece , would not catch . 
He then tried the bit of hoop iron , which would not strike fire at all ; and after that the back of the axe , with no better success . 
exclaimed Jack , rising and cutting a branch from a neighbouring bush , which he stripped of its leaves . 
With the cord and branch Jack soon formed a bow . 
Then he cut a piece , about three inches long , off the end of a dead branch , which he pointed at the two ends . 
Round this he passed the cord of the bow , and placed one end against his chest , which was protected from its point by a chip of wood ; the other point he placed against the bit of tinder , and then began to saw vigorously with the bow , just as a blacksmith does with his drill while boring a hole in a piece of iron . 
Just at that moment I was attracted by the sight of a very small parrot , which Jack afterwards told me was called a paroquet . 
The cry awoke Jack , who rose on his elbow with a look of grave surprise ; but this was followed by a quiet smile of intelligence on seeing Peterkin in the water . 
With an energy that he only gave way to in moments of excitement , Jack bounded to his feet , threw off his clothes , shook back his hair , and , with a lion-like spring , dashed over the sands and plunged into the sea with such force as quite to envelop Peterkin in a shower of spray . 
Jack was a remarkably good swimmer and diver , so that after his plunge we saw no sign of him for nearly a minute ; after which he suddenly emerged , with a cry of joy , a good many yards out from the shore . 
My spirits were so much raised by seeing all this that I , too , hastily threw off my garments and endeavoured to imitate Jack 's vigorous bound ; but I was so awkward that my foot caught on a stump , and I fell to the ground ; then I slipped on a stone while running over the sand , and nearly fell again , much to the amusement of Peterkin , who laughed heartily , and called me a `` slow coach , '' while Jack cried out , `` Come along , Ralph , and I 'll help you . '' 
I could not , indeed , equal Jack , who was superior to any Englishman I ever saw , but I infinitely surpassed Peterkin , who could only swim a little , and could not dive at all . 
While Peterkin enjoyed himself in the shallow water and in running along the beach , Jack and I swam out into the deep water , and occasionally dived for stones . 
When Jack and I dived in shallower water , we expected to have found sand and stones , instead of which we found ourselves in what appeared really to be an enchanted garden . 
On darting to the surface for breath , after our first dive , Jack and I rose close to each other . 
said Jack , as he flung the spray from his hair . 
cried Jack , `` do you know , Ralph , I 'm half tempted to think that we really are dreaming . 
When Jack reached the bottom , he grasped the coral stems , and crept along on his hands and knees , peeping under the sea-weed and among the rocks . 
I observed him also pick up one or two large oysters , and retain them in his grasp , as if he meant to take them up with him , so I also gathered a few . 
Suddenly he made a grasp at a fish with blue and yellow stripes on its back , and actually touched its tail , but did not catch it . 
At this he turned towards me and attempted to smile ; but no sooner had he done so than he sprang like an arrow to the surface , where , on following him , I found him gasping and coughing , and spitting water from his mouth . 
In a few minutes he recovered , and we both turned to swim ashore . 
`` I declare , Ralph , '' said he , `` that I actually tried to laugh under water . '' 
`` Breakfast enough here , '' said he , holding up the oysters , as we landed and ran up the beach . 
that 's lucky , '' remarked Jack . 
One of these was given to Peterkin , the other to me , and Jack armed himself with the axe . 
Jack , being the wisest and boldest among us , took the lead , carrying the axe on his shoulder . 
Jack was just preparing to force his way through this thicket , when we were startled and arrested by a strange pattering or rumbling sound , which appeared to us quite different from any of the sounds we had heard during the previous part of our walk . 
Neither of us replied ; but Jack seized his axe in his right hand , while with the other he pushed aside the broad leaves and endeavoured to peer amongst them . 
`` I can see nothing , '' he said , after a short pause . 
`` Nevertheless , '' remarked Jack , `` if that same stone had hit any of us , it would have rendered the charge you speak of quite unnecessary , Peterkin . '' 
Here Jack made a discovery which caused us all very great joy . 
This was a tree of a remarkably beautiful appearance , which Jack confidently declared to be the celebrated breadfruit tree . 
`` It is , '' replied Jack . 
`` Then it 's not so celebrated as I thought it was , '' returned Jack , quietly squeezing Peterkin 's hat over his eyes ; `` but listen , you ignorant boobie ! 
Peterkin re-adjusted his hat , and was soon listening with as much interest as myself , while Jack told us that this tree is one of the most valuable in the islands of the south ; that it bears two , sometimes three , crops of fruit in the year ; that the fruit is very like wheaten bread in appearance , and that it constitutes the principal food of many of the islanders . 
`` Moreover , '' continued Jack , `` the bread-fruit tree affords a capital gum , which serves the natives for pitching their canoes ; the bark of the young branches is made by them into cloth ; and of the wood , which is durable and of a good colour , they build their houses . 
`` Quite sure , '' replied Jack ; for I was particularly interested in the account I once read of it , and I remember the description well . 
`` Never mind , Jack , '' said Peterkin , with a grave , patronizing expression of countenance , patting his tall companion on the shoulder , -- `` never mind , Jack ; you know a good deal for your age . 
You 're a clever boy , sir , -- a promising young man ; and if you only go on as you have begun , sir , you will -- '' The end of this speech was suddenly cut short by Jack tripping up Peterkin 's heels and tumbling him into a mass of thick shrubs , where , finding himself comfortable , he lay still , basking in the sunshine , while Jack and I examined the bread-fruit tree . 
Jack said that the yellow was the ripe fruit . 
`` I ca n't understand it , '' said Jack , scratching the surface of the stump with his axe . 
As he spoke , Jack began carefully to scrape away the moss and fungus from the stump , and soon laid bare three distinct traces of marks , as if some inscription or initials had been cut thereon . 
Jack thought they looked like J.S but we could not be certain . 
Jack 's ingenuity -- We get into difficulties about fishing , and get out of them by a method which gives us a cold bath -- Horrible encounter with a shark . 
Besides this , we bathed very frequently , and talked a great deal ; at least Jack and Peterkin did , -- I listened . 
Among other useful things , Jack , who was ever the most active and diligent , converted about three inches of the hoopiron into an excellent knife . 
First he beat it quite flat with the axe . 
Then he made a rude handle , and tied the hoop-iron to it with our piece of whip-cord , and ground it to an edge on a piece of sand-stone . 
When it was finished he used it to shape a better handle , to which he fixed it with a strip of his cotton handkerchief ; -- in which operation he had , as Peterkin pointed out , torn off one of Lord Nelson 's noses . 
One day Peterkin came up from the beach , where he had been angling , and said in a very cross tone , `` I 'll tell you what , Jack , I 'm not going to be humbugged with catching such contemptible things any longer . 
`` Dear me , Peterkin , '' replied Jack , `` I had no idea you were taking the thing so much to heart , else I would have got you out of that difficulty long ago . 
Let me see , '' -- and Jack looked down at a piece of timber on which he had been labouring , with a peculiar gaze of abstraction , which he always assumed when trying to invent or discover anything . 
he inquired , looking up hastily . 
Again Jack considered . 
he cried . 
As soon as we reached it Jack threw off his coat , and , wielding the axe with his sturdy arms , hacked and hewed at it for a quarter of an hour without stopping . 
Then he paused , and , while he sat down to rest , I continued the work . 
Then Peterkin made a vigorous attack on it , so that when Jack renewed his powerful blows , a few minutes cutting brought it down with a terrible crash . 
now for it , '' cried Jack ; `` let us off with its head . '' 
So saying he began to cut through the stem again , at about six yards from the thick end . 
This done , he cut three strong , short poles or levers from the stout branches , with which to roll the log down the beach into the sea ; for , as it was nearly two feet thick at the large end , we could not move it without such helps . 
`` Now , then , Jack , '' said he , `` be cautious ; steer clear o ' that sea-weed . 
said Jack , urging the log onwards a little with his paddle . 
`` Let him swallow it next time , '' said Jack , laughing at the melancholy expression of Peterkin 's visage . 
`` Try to haul him up by the mouth , then , '' cried Jack . 
`` Never mind , lad , '' said Jack , in a voice of sympathy ; '' we 'll move on , and offer it to some other fish . '' 
So saying , Jack piled his paddle ; but scarcely had he moved from the spot , when a fish with an enormous head and a little body darted from under a rock and swallowed the bait at once . 
But Jack , instead of complying , said , in a deep , earnest tone of voice , which I never before heard him use , -- `` Haul up your line , Peterkin ; seize your paddle ; quick , -- it 's a shark ! '' 
From its active and unsteady motions , Jack knew it was making up its mind to attack us , so he urged us vehemently to paddle for our lives , while he himself set us the example . 
Suddenly he shouted `` Look out ! 
and in a second we saw the monstrous fish dive close under us , and turn half over on his side . 
`` Throw the fish to him , '' cried Jack , in a quick , suppressed voice ; `` we 'll make the shore in time yet if we can keep him off for a few minutes . '' 
But Jack was mistaken in supposing that it would be satisfied . 
`` Stop paddling , '' cried Jack suddenly . 
Peterkin and I instantly did as we were ordered , being only too glad to do anything that afforded us a chance or a hope of escape , for we had implicit confidence in Jack 's courage and wisdom . 
On doing so , I saw Jack sitting rigid like a statue , with his paddle raised , his lips compressed , and his eyebrows bent over his eyes , which glared savagely from beneath them down into the water . 
I also saw the shark , to my horror , quite close under the log , in the act of darting towards Jack 's foot . 
Jack drew his leg suddenly from the water , and threw it over the log . 
The monster 's snout rubbed against the log as it passed , and revealed its hideous jaws , into which Jack instantly plunged the paddle , and thrust it down its throat . 
So violent was this act that Jack rose to his feet in performing it ; the log was thereby rolled completely over , and we were once more plunged into the water . 
`` Now , then , strike out for shore , '' cried Jack . 
Peterkin did as he was desired , and jack struck out with such force that he cut through the water like a boat ; while I , being free from all encumbrance , succeeded in keeping up with him . 
We did , indeed , continue to enjoy our bathe in the shallow water , but Jack and I found that one great source of our enjoyment was gone , when we could no longer dive down among the beautiful coral groves at the bottom of the lagoon . 
Jack told me that to do so often was bad for the lungs , and , instead of affording us enjoyment , would ere long do us a serious injury . 
Sometimes , when Jack happened to be in a humorous frame , he would seat himself at the bottom of the sea on one of the brain corals , as if he were seated on a large paddock-stool , and then make faces at me , in order , if possible , to make me laugh under water . 
At first , when he took me unawares , he nearly succeeded , and I had to shoot to the surface in order to laugh ; but afterwards I became aware of his intentions , and , being naturally of a grave disposition , I had no difficulty in restraining myself . 
Now , all this pleasure we were to forego , and when we thought thereon , Jack and I felt very much depressed in our spirits . 
Besides this , there was a ledge of rock which overhung the basin at its deepest part , from which we could dive pleasantly , and whereon Peterkin could sit and see not only all the wonders I had described to him , but also see Jack and me creeping amongst the marine shrubbery at the bottom , like , -- as he expressed it , -- `` two great white sea-monsters . '' 
Among other things , we were deeply interested with the operations of the little coral insect which , I was informed by Jack , is supposed to have entirely constructed many of the numerous islands in Pacific Ocean . 
But Jack proposed that , before undertaking such an excursion , we should supply ourselves with good defensive arms , for , as we intended not only to go round all the shore , but to ascend most of the valleys , before returning home , we should be likely to meet in with , he would not say dangers , but , at least , with everything that existed on the island , whatever that might be . 
`` Besides , '' said Jack , `` it wo n't do for us to live on cocoa-nuts and oysters always . 
`` You will make the bows , Jack , and I 'll try my hand at the arrows . 
`` But , '' said I , `` Jack , you can not make three bows and arrows before to-morrow , and would it not be a pity to waste time , now that we have made up our minds to go on this expedition ? 
`` Yes , '' replied Jack , `` quite enough ; but then it will give us a great deal more than enough of heat in this warm climate of ours . '' 
`` Well , as you 're always doing that at any rate , '' remarked Jack , `` we could scarcely call it a change . 
`` Because , '' said Jack , `` I have not seen the tree yet , and I 'm not sure that I should know either the tree or the nuts if I did see them . 
`` Let us hear how it happened , '' said Jack , while a good-natured smile overspread his face . 
Jack laughed and patted Peterkin on the shoulder . 
`` Very true , '' said Jack , `` but I fear I can remember little about it . 
cried Jack . 
`` Then lead me to it , '' said Jack , seizing his axe . 
We soon came to the tree in question , which , after Jack had closely examined it , we concluded must be the candle-nut tree . 
We immediately filled our pockets with the nuts , after which Jack said , -- `` Now , Peterkin , climb that cocoa-nut tree and cut me one of the long branches . '' 
Jack now took one of the leaflets , and , cutting out the central spine or stalk , hurried back with it to our camp . 
Having made a small fire , he baked the nuts slightly , and then pealed of the husks . 
After this he wished to bore a hole in them , which , not having anything better at hand at the time , he did with the point of our useless pencil-case . 
Then he strung them on the cocoa-nut spine , and on putting a light to the topmost nut , we found to our joy that it burned with a clear , beautiful flame ; upon seeing which , Peterkin sprang up and danced round the fire for at least five minutes in the excess of his satisfaction . 
`` Now lads , '' said Jack , extinguishing our candle , `` the sun will set in an hour , so we have no time to lose . 
So saying he shouldered his axe and went off , followed by Peterkin , while I took up the piece of newly discovered cloth , and fell to examining its structure . 
`` I intend to appropriate the bow for my own use , '' said Jack , chipping the piece of wood he had brought with his axe . 
he added , looking at Peterkin , who had drawn the end of a long pole into the tent , and was endeavouring to fit a small piece of the hoop-iron to the end of it . 
`` You see , Jack , I find the club rather an unwieldy instrument for my delicately-formed muscles , and I flatter myself I shall do more execution with a spear . '' 
`` Well , if length constitutes power , '' said Jack , `` you 'll certainly be invincible . '' 
At length Peterkin looked up : `` I say , Jack , I 'm sorry to say I must apply to you for another strip of your handkerchief , to tie on this rascally head with . 
`` Jack proceeded to comply with this request , when Peterkin suddenly laid his hand on his arm and arrested him . 
`` Do you know , '' said Jack , `` I have heard that mysterious sound twice before , but never so loud as to-night . 
`` What say you to it , Jack ? '' 
By this time Peterkin had thinned down his spear and tied an iron point very cleverly to the end of it ; I had formed a sling , the lines of which were composed of thin strips of the cocoa-nut cloth , plaited ; and Jack had made a stout bow , nearly five feet long , with two arrows , feathered with two or three large plume which some bird had dropt . 
They had no barbs , but Jack said that if arrows were well feathered , they did not require iron points , but would fly quite well if merely sharpened at the point ; which I did not know before . 
`` A feathered arrow without a barb , '' said he , `` is a good weapon , but a barbed arrow without feathers is utterly useless . '' 
The string of the bow was formed of our piece of whip-cord , part of which , as he did not like to cut it , was rolled round the bow . 
First , Jack found that the bow was much too strong , and he had to thin it . 
However , after having spent the whole day in diligent practice , we began to find some of our former expertness returning -- at least jack and I did . 
But I feel satisfied that we owed much of our rapid success to the unflagging energy of Jack , who insisted that , since we had made him Captain , we should obey him ; and he kept us at work from morning till night , perseveringly , at the same thing . 
Peterkin wished very much to run about and stick his spear into everything he passed ; but Jack put up a cocoa nut , and would not let him leave off running at that for a moment , except when he wanted to rest . 
We laughed at Jack for this , but we were both convinced that it did us much good . 
Scarcely had the sun shot its first ray across the bosom of the broad Pacific , when Jack sprang to his feet , and , halloing in Peterkin 's ear to awaken him , ran down the beach to take his customary dip in the sea . 
In addition to his ordinary dress , Jack tied a belt of cocoa-nut cloth round his waist , into which he thrust the axe . 
I was also advised to put on a belt and carry a short cudgel or bludgeon in it ; for , as Jack truly remarked , the sling would be of little use if we should chance to come to close quarters with any wild animal . 
I must say that it seemed to me that the club was , to use his own style of language , not worth a button-hole ; for it was all knotted over at the head , something like the club which I remember to have observed in picture-books of Jack the Giant Killer , besides being so heavy that he required to grasp it with both hands in order to wield it at all . 
However , he took it with him , and , in this manner we set out upon our travels . 
In such cases Jack always took the lead , Peterkin followed , and I brought up the rear . 
Jack , being the tallest , walked next the sea , and Peterkin marched between us , as by this arrangement either of us could talk to him or he to us , while if Jack and I happened to wish to converse together , we could conveniently do so over Peterkin 's head . 
Peterkin used to say , in reference to this arrangement , that had he been as tall as either of us , our order of march might have been the same , for , as Jack often used to scold him for letting everything we said to him pass in at one ear and out at the other , his head could of course form no interruption to our discourse . 
Now , while we stood anxiously waiting for the re-appearance of these water-spouts , we heard a low , rumbling sound near us , which quickly increased to a gurgling and hissing noise , and a moment afterwards a thick spout of water burst upwards from a hole in the rock , and spouted into the air with much violence , and so close to where Jack and I were standing that it nearly touched us . 
`` Make a fire , lad , and dry ourselves , '' replied Jack . 
said Jack , just as we were about to quit the place . 
I immediately ran to the overhanging ledge of rock , from which he was looking down into the sea , and bent over it . 
cried Jack , fetch you spear ; here 's work for it . '' 
Jack now drove the spear forcibly towards the object , and let go his hold ; but , although it seemed to be well aimed , he must have missed , for the handle soon rose again ; and when the spear was drawn up , there was the pale green object in exactly the same spot , slowly moving its tail . 
`` Very odd , '' said Jack . 
But although it was undoubtedly very odd , and although Jack and all of us plunged the spear at it repeatedly , we could neither hit it nor drive it away , so we were compelled to continue our journey without discovering what it was . 
We had also the satisfaction of discovering a peculiar vegetable , which Jack concluded must certainly be that of which he had read as being very common among the South Sea islanders , and which was named taro . 
Now , while we were gazing around us in silent admiration , Jack uttered an exclamation of surprise , and , pointing to an object a little to one side of us , said , -- `` That 's a banian-tree . '' 
`` A very curious one , as you shall see presently , '' replied Jack . 
Is your philosophy deserting you , Jack ? '' 
`` There is but one tree here of this kind , '' returned Jack , `` as you will perceive if you will examine it . '' 
It was a splendid chestnut , but its proper name Jack did not know . 
While we were examining a small tree of this kind , Jack chipped a piece off a buttress with his axe , and found the wood to be firm and easily cut . 
He then struck the axe into it with all his force , and very soon split it off close to the tree , first , however , having cut it across transversely above and below . 
By this means he satisfied himself that we could now obtain short planks , as it were all ready sawn , of any size and thickness that we desired ; which was a very great discovery indeed , perhaps the most important we had yet made . 
Now , as we neared the shore , Jack and I said we would go a little out of our way to see if we could procure one of those ducks ; so , directing Peterkin to go straight to the shore and kindle a fire , we separated , promising to rejoin him speedily . 
Jack and I could scarce restrain our laughter as we gazed at these coarse , fat , ill-looking animals , while they lay groaning and snoring heavily amid the remains of their supper . 
`` Now , Ralph , '' said Jack , in a low whisper , '' put a stone in your sling , -- a good big one , -- and let fly at that fat fellow with his back toward you . 
At the same instant Jack 's bow twanged , and the arrow pinned the little pig to the ground by the ear . 
`` I 've missed , after all , '' cried Jack , darting forward with uplifted axe , while the little pig uttered a loud squeal , tore the arrow from the ground , and ran away with it , along with the whole drove , into the bushes and disappeared , though we heard them screaming long afterwards in the distance . 
`` That 's very provoking , now , '' said Jack , rubbing the point of his nose . 
`` Well , we must make hast and rejoin Peterkin , '' said Jack . 
We wondered very much at this ; but jack suggested that he might have gone to fetch water ; so he gave a shout to let him know that we had arrived , and sat down upon a rock , while I threw off my jacket and seized the axe , intending to split up one or two billets of wood . 
`` When Greek meets Greek , '' said Jack , soliloquizing , `` then comes the tug of -- '' `` Hurrah ! '' 
exclaimed Jack , slapping him on the shoulder when he came up , `` you 're the best shot amongst us . '' 
`` Look here , Jack ! '' 
said Jack . 
`` Very likely , '' replied Jack . 
At last Jack started up and said , -- `` Do n't let us waste more time talking about it , boys . 
There , lay the hind leg on this block of wood , -- so ; '' and he cut it off , with a large portion of the haunch , at a single blow of the axe . 
And having thus cut off the two hind legs , he made several deep gashes in them , thrust a sharp-pointed stick through each , and stuck them up before the blaze to roast . 
Altogether this was decidedly the most luxurious supper we had enjoyed for many a day ; and Jack said it was out-of-sight better than we ever got on board ship ; and Peterkin said he feared that if we should remain long on the island he would infallibly become a glutton or an epicure : whereat Jack remarked that he need not fear that , for he was both already ! 
said he , looking round at Jack . 
`` It comes from one of these islands , '' said Jack . 
At this remark Jack laughed and said , -- `` Why , Peterkin , they are penguins ! '' 
Now , as we continued on our way , I pondered much over this new discovery , and the singular appearance of these birds , of which Jack could only give us a very slight and vague account ; and I began to long to commence to our boat , in order that we might go and inspect them more narrowly . 
Besides this , I noticed that , on the summit of the high mountain , which we once more ascended at a different point from our first ascent , were found abundance of shells and broken coral formations , which Jack and I agreed proved either that this island must have once been under the sea , or that the sea must once have been above the island . 
Jack thought it might have been blown up by a volcano ; and Peterkin said he thought it must have jumped up of its own accord ! 
Peterkin thought they were those of a little dog , but Jack and I thought differently . 
cried Jack , fitting an arrow to his bow , and discharging it so hastily that he missed the animal , and hit the earth about half a foot to one side of it . 
cried Jack . 
While we were fondling the cat and talking about it , Jack glanced round the open space in the midst of which we stood . 
exclaimed he ; `` this looks something like a clearing . 
At first Jack endeavoured to peep in at the window , but from the deep shadow of the trees already mentioned , and the gloom within , he could not clearly discern objects ; so we lifted the latch and pushed open the door . 
But Jack thought it more likely that he had run away from his vessel , and had taken the dog and cat to keep him company . 
`` I say , Jack , '' said he , `` here is something that will be of use to us . '' 
said Jack , hastening across the room . 
`` That , indeed , might have been useful , '' said Jack , examining it , `` if we had any powder ; but I suspect the bow and the sling will prove more serviceable . '' 
In leaving the hut , Jack stumbled heavily against the door-post , which was so much decayed as to break across , and the whole fabric of the hut seemed ready to tumble about our ears . 
Jack , therefore , with his axe , cut down the other door-post , which , when it was done , brought the whole hut in ruins to the ground , and thus formed a grave to the bones of the poor recluse and his dog . 
Something wrong with the tank -- Jack 's wisdom and Peterkin 's impertinence -- Wonderful behaviour of a crab -- Good wishes for those who dwell far from the sea -- Jack commences to build a little boat . 
I can state this with much certainty , for Jack afterwards admitted the fact , and Peterkin , although he stoutly denied it , I heard snoring loudly at least two minutes after lying down . 
We found the garden more charming , pelucid , and inviting than ever , and Jack and I plunged into its depth , and gambolled among its radiant coral groves ; while Peterkin wallowed at the surface , and tried occasionally to kick us as we passed below . 
`` I say , Jack , '' cried Peterkin , waving his hand , `` come here , like a good fellow . 
inquired Jack , coming up , while he endeavoured to scrub his long hair dry with a towel of cocoa-nut cloth . 
I repeated my thoughts to Jack , who , I was happy to find , quite agreed with me . 
`` Your best plan , '' he said , `` will be to put very few animals at first into your tank , and add more as you find it will bear them . 
And look here , '' he added , pointing to the sides of the tank , which , for the space of two inches above the water-level , were incrusted with salt , `` you must carry your philosophy a little farther , Ralph . 
`` Very true , Jack , that never struck me before , '' said I. `` And , now I think of it , '' continued Jack , `` it seems to me that the surest way of arranging your tank so as to get it to keep pure and in good condition , will be to imitate the ocean in it . 
`` Not at all , '' cried Jack , rolling his towel up into a ball , and throwing it into the face of Peterkin , who had been grinning and winking at him during the last five minutes . 
Now I considered well the advice which Jack had given me about preparing my tank , and the more I thought of it , the more I came to regard it as very sound and worthy of being acted on . 
So I forthwith put his plan in execution , and found it to answer excellently well , indeed much beyond my expectation ; for I found that after a little experience had taught me the proper proportion of sea-weed and animals to put into a certain amount of water , the tank needed no farther attendance ; and , moreover , I did not require ever afterwards to renew or change the sea-water , but only to add a very little fresh water from the brook , now and then , as the other evaporated . 
For many days after this , while Peterkin and Jack were busily employed in building a little boat out of the curious natural planks of the chestnut tree , I spent much of my time in examining with the burning-glass the marvellous operations that were constantly going on in my tank . 
Notable discovery at the spouting cliffs -- The mysterious green monster explained -- We are thrown into unutterable terror by the idea that Jack is drowned -- The Diamond Cave . 
`` Come , Jack , '' cried Peterkin , one morning about three weeks after our return from our long excursion , `` let 's be jolly to-day , and do something vigorous . 
`` Well , '' answered Jack , throwing down the axe with which he was just about to proceed towards the boat , `` if that 's what you want , I would recommend you to make an excursion to the water-spouts ; the last one we had to do with tossed you up a considerable height , perhaps the next will send you higher , who knows , if you 're at all reasonable or moderate in your expectations ! '' 
`` Jack , my dear boy , '' said Peterkin , gravely , `` you are really becoming too fond of jesting . 
`` Well , then , Peterkin , '' replied Jack , with a smile , `` what would you have ? '' 
`` Well , then , let us away to the water-spouts , '' cried Jack , going up to the bower for his bow and arrows ; `` and bring your spear , Peterkin . 
said Jack . 
`` Now , Jack , '' he added , `` you made such a poor figure in your last attempt to stick that object , that I would advise you to let me try it . 
`` Fire away , then , my boy , '' replied Jack with a laugh . 
`` I 'm pretty sure now , '' said Jack , `` that it is merely a phosphoric light ; but I must say I 'm puzzled at its staying always in that exact spot . '' 
I also was much puzzled , and inclined to think with Jack that it must be phosphoric light ; of which luminous appearance we had seen much while on our voyage to these seas . 
`` True , '' returned Jack , stripping off his clothes ; `` I 'll go down , Ralph , as I 'm better at diving than you are . 
Jack stepped forward , joined his hands above his head , bent over the rocks , and plunged into the sea . 
For a second or two the spray caused by his dive hid him from view , then the water became still , and we saw him swimming far down in the midst of the green object . 
Suddenly he sank below it , and vanished altogether from our sight ! 
We gazed anxiously down at the spot where he had disappeared , for nearly a minute , expecting every moment to see him rise again for breath ; but fully a minute passed , and still he did not re-appear . 
and then a flood of alarm rushed in upon my soul , when I considered that , during all my acquaintance with him , Jack had never stayed under water more than a minute at a time ; indeed seldom so long . 
Suddenly he sprang to his feet and rushed about in a frantic state , wringing his hands , and exclaiming , `` Oh , Jack , Jack ! 
he is gone ! 
It must have been a shark , and he is gone for ever ! '' 
In another moment Jack 's head rose to the surface , and he gave a wild shout , flinging back the spray from his locks , as was his wont after a dive . 
Now we were almost as much amazed at seeing him re-appear , well and strong , as we had been at first at his non-appearance ; for , to the best of our judgment , he had been nearly ten minutes under water , perhaps longer , and it required no exertion of our reason to convince us that this was utterly impossible for mortal man to do and retain his strength and faculties . 
No sooner did Jack gain the rocks and seat himself on one , panting for breath , than he threw his arms round his neck , and burst into a flood of tears . 
`` Oh , Jack , Jack ! '' 
said he , `` where were you ? 
After a few moments Peterkin became composed enough to sit still and listen to Jack 's explanation , although he could not restrain himself from attempting to wink every two minutes at me , in order to express his joy at Jack 's safety . 
I say he attempted to wink , but I am bound to add that he did not succeed , for his eyes were so much swollen with weeping , that his frequent attempts only resulted in a series of violent and altogether idiotical contortions of the face , that were very far from expressing what he intended . 
`` Now , lads , '' said Jack , when we were composed enough to listen to him , `` you green object is not a shark ; it is a stream of light issuing from a cave in the rocks . 
When Jack concluded his recital of what he had seen in this remarkable cave , I could not rest satisfied till I had dived down to see it ; which I did , but found it so dark , as Jack had said , that I could scarcely see anything . 
`` I 'm very sorry for you , Peterkin , indeed I am , '' said Jack , `` but we can not help you . 
But we could not rest satisfied till we had seen more of this cave ; so , after further consultation , Jack and I determined to try if we could take down a torch with us , and set fire to it in the cavern . 
This we found to be an undertaking of no small difficulty ; but we accomplished it at last by the following means : -- First , we made a torch of a very inflammable nature out of the bark of a certain tree , which we cut into strips , and , after twisting , cemented together with a kind of resin or gum , which we also obtained from another tree ; neither of which trees , however , was known by name to Jack . 
Then we advanced to the edge of the rocks , Jack carrying one bundle , with the torch ; I the other , with the things for producing fire . 
`` Now do n't weary for us , Peterkin , should we be gone some time , '' said Jack ; `` we 'll be sure to return in half-an-hour at the very latest , however interesting the cave should be , that we may relieve your mind . '' 
said Peterkin , coming up to us with a look of deep but pretended solemnity , while he shook hands and kissed each of us on the cheek . 
said Jack , in a low voice , that seemed to echo up into the dome above . 
`` Come along , then , '' said he ; and , plunging off the ledge of the rock into the water , we dived through the narrow entrance . 
Jack and I were surprised that we had not noticed this the first few days of our residence here , and could only account for it by our being so much taken up with the more obvious wonders of our novel situation . 
We had much serious conversation on this subject of the tides ; and Jack told us , in his own quiet , philosophical way , that these tides did great good to the world in many ways , particularly in the way of cleansing the shores of the land , and carrying off the filth that was constantly poured into the sea therefrom ; which , Peterkin suggested , was remarkably tidy of it to do . 
cried Jack ; `` these are your friends , Peterkin . 
cried Peterkin , hurrying towards the wood , while Jack and I followed , smiling at his impatience . 
`` I say , Peterkin , '' cried Jack , in a hoarse whisper . 
Now , mind you pitch into a fat young pig , Peterkin , '' added Jack , as he sprang into the bushes . 
cried I , as a terrific yell from Jack sent the whole herd screaming down the hill . 
said Jack , as he came up . 
`` That you certainly have , Peterkin , '' said Jack , as he was examining the transfixed animal . 
Jack took one end on his shoulder , I took the other on mine , and Peterkin carried the small pig . 
For many days after this Jack applied himself with unremitting assiduity to the construction of our boat , which at length began to look somewhat like one . 
But Jack did it . 
He was of that disposition which will not be conquered . 
When he believed himself to be acting rightly , he overcame all obstacles . 
I have seen Jack , when doubtful whether what he was about to do were right or wrong , as timid and vacillating as a little girl , -- and I honour him for it ! 
First of all Jack sought out a limb of a tree of such a form and size as , while it should form the keel , a bend at either end should form the stem and stern posts . 
Such a piece , however , was not easy to obtain , but at last he procured it , by rooting up a small tree which had a branch growing at the proper angle about ten feet up its stem , with two strong roots growing in such a form as enabled him to make a flat-sterned boat . 
This placed , he procured three branching roots of suitable size , which he fitted to the keel at equal distances , thus forming three strong ribs . 
Now , the squaring and shaping of these , and the cutting of the grooves in the keel , was an easy enough matter , as it was all work for the axe , in the use of which Jack was become wonderfully expert ; but it was quite a different affair when he came to nailing the ribs to the keel , for we had no instrument capable of boring a large hole , and no nails to fasten them with . 
We were , indeed , much perplexed here ; but Jack at length devised an instrument that served very well . 
He took the remainder of our hoop-iron and beat it into the form of a pipe or cylinder , about as thick as a man 's finger . 
This , when made red hot , bored slowly through the timbers ; and , the better to retain the heat , Jack shut up one end of it and filled it with sand . 
Of course it cost us much time and infinite labour , but Jack kept up our spirits when we grew weary , and so all that we required was at last constructed . 
While Jack was thus engaged , Peterkin and I sometimes assisted him , but , as our assistance was not much required , we more frequently went a-hunting on the extensive mud-flats at the entrance of the long valley which lay nearest to our bower . 
Not forgetting , however , to point out to Jack that his failure was a direct contradiction to the proverb which he , Jack , was constantly thrusting down his throat , namely , that `` where there 's a will there 's a way . '' 
For he had a great will to become a cook , but could by no means find a way to accomplish that end . 
One day , while Peterkin and I were seated beside our table on which dinner was spread , Jack came up from the beach , and , flinging down his axe , exclaimed , -- `` There , lads , the boat 's finished at last ! 
But Jack had wrought hard and said nothing , in order to surprise us . 
`` Do n't talk so much , Peterkin , '' said Jack ; `` and , pray , hand me a bit of that pig . '' 
`` A hind leg , if you please , '' answered Jack ; and , pray , be so good as to include the tail . '' 
Both Jack and Peterkin answered this inquiry by themselves laughing so immoderately that I was induced to believe I had missed noticing some good joke , so I begged that it might be explained to me ; but as this only produced repeated roars of laughter , I smiled and helped myself to another slice of plantain . 
Ca n't we have one , Jack ? '' 
`` No , '' replied Jack , `` we ca n't have a sail , but I hope we shall have a row , as I intend to work hard at the oars this afternoon , and , if we ca n't get them finished by sunset we 'll light our candle-nuts , and turn them out of hands before we turn into bed . '' 
`` Afterwards , '' continued Jack , `` we will make a sail out of the cocoa-nut cloth , and rig up a mast , and then we shall be able to sail to some of the other islands , and visit our old friends the penguins . '' 
Jack went into the woods and blocked them roughly out with the axe , and I smoothed them down with the knife , while Peterkin remained in the bower , spinning , or , rather , twisting some strong thick cordage with which to fasten them to the boat . 
We worked hard and rapidly , so that , when the sun went down , Jack and I returned to the bower with four stout oars , which required little to be done to them save a slight degree of polishing with the knife . 
Jack motioned me to be silent , and , advancing to the bower on tip-toe , we peeped in . 
On the top of a log which we sometimes used as a table , sat the black cat , with a very demure expression on its countenance ; and in front of it , sitting on the ground , with his legs extended on either side of the log , was Peterkin . 
Now , tell me ; do n't you think it 's a monstrous shame that these two scoundrels , Jack and Ralph , should keep us waiting for our supper so long ? '' 
At this point Jack burst into a loud fit of laughter . 
The cat uttered an angry fuff and fled , while Peterkin sprang up and exclaimed , -- `` Bad luck to you , Jack ! 
`` Perhaps I have , '' replied Jack , laughing , as we entered the bower , `` but , as I do n't intend to keep you or the cat any longer from your supper , I hope that you 'll both forgive me . '' 
`` And I vote that we visit the islands within the lagoon , '' said I. `` And I vote we do both , '' cried Jack , `` so pull away , boys . '' 
Again at this time Jack and I pondered the formation of the large coral islands . 
`` Now , '' said Jack , `` as our boat answers so well , we will get a mast and sail made immediately . '' 
cried Jack , on seeing this . 
`` It seems to me , Jack , '' I added , `` that it is impossible to prevent the keel being worn off thus . '' 
`` Hold your impudent tongue , Peterkin , '' said Jack , as he shouldered the oars , `` come along with me and I 'll give you work to do . 
`` Very well , '' continued Jack ; `` then you 'll help Ralph to collect cocoa-nut cloth , and cut it into shape , after which we 'll make a sail of it . 
Jack had also overcome the difficulty about the keel , by pinning to it a false keel . 
He made it of this depth because the boat would be thereby rendered not only much more safe , but more able to beat against the wind ; which , in a sea where the trade-winds blow so long and so steadily in one direction , was a matter of great importance . 
Peterkin also made a fishing line , and Jack constructed a number of hooks , some of which were very good , others remarkably bad . 
Some of these hooks were made of iron-wood , which did pretty well , the wood being extremely hard , and Jack made them very thick and large . 
But that which formed our best and most serviceable hook was the brass finger-ring belonging to Jack . 
It gave him not a little trouble to manufacture it . 
First he cut it with the axe ; then twisted it into the form of a hook . 
The barb took him several hours to cut . 
He did it by means of constant sawing with the broken pen-knife . 
Peterkin always caught them , -- for we observed that he derived much pleasure from fishing , -- while Jack and I found ample amusement in looking on , also in gazing down at the coral groves , and in baiting the hook . 
Jack remembered having heard once of a sword-fish attacking a ship , -- which seemed strange indeed ; but , as they are often in the habit of attacking whales , perhaps it mistook the ship for one . 
Jack , however , suggested a cause which seemed to me very probable . 
Now , Jack thought that the little fish might perhaps have been carried up in a water-spout , and so sent down again in a shower of rain . 
`` And I think , '' said Jack , `` that you had better remain at home , Peterkin , to take care of the cat ; for I 'm sure the hogs will be at it in your absence , out of revenge for your killing their great-grandmother so recklessly . '' 
`` Ah , true , '' said Jack , gravely , `` that did not occur to me ; no doubt you must go . 
On seeing this , Jack said he feared our bower must have been swept away , and that the boat , which was on the beach , must have been utterly destroyed . 
`` It may have been washed up into the woods , '' said Jack , hurrying up the beach as he spoke . 
Still , no boat was to be seen , and we were about to give ourselves over to despair , when Peterkin called to Jack and said , -- `` Jack , my friend , you were once so exceedingly sagacious and wise as to make me acquainted with the fact that cocoa nuts grow upon trees ; will you now be so good as to inform me what sort of fruit that is growing on the top of yonder bush ? 
This took us some time to do , for while Jack was busy with the boat , Peterkin was sent into the woods to spear a hog or two , and had to search long , sometimes , ere he found them . 
exclaimed Jack , `` did you really resolve to do that ? '' 
`` Now , Jack , hold your tongue , '' returned Peterkin ; `` I say that I resolved to forego my dinner and to push to the head of the small valley , where I felt pretty sure of discovering the hogs . 
`` I wish we had a breeze , '' said Jack . 
`` So do I , '' cried Peterkin , resting on his oar and wiping his heated brow ; `` pulling is hard work . 
remarked Jack . 
D'you think they are hospitable , Jack ? '' 
`` I vote for landing , so pull in , lads , '' said Jack , giving a stroke with his oar that made the boat spin . 
At last the wind and sea together became so violent that we found it impossible to make the island , so Jack suddenly put the head of the boat round and ordered Peterkin and me to hoist a corner of the sail , intending to run back to Penguin Island . 
As Jack spoke , the wind suddenly shifted , and blew so much against us that we were forced to hoist more of the sail in order to beat up for the island , being by this change thrown much to leeward of it . 
`` Stand by , both of you , '' cried Jack , in a quick , earnest tone ; `` be ready to dowse the sail . 
Peterkin and I were so much in the habit of trusting everything to Jack that we had fallen into the way of not considering things , especially such things as were under Jack 's care . 
We had , therefore , never doubted for a moment that all was going well , so that it was with no little anxiety that we heard him make the above remark . 
However , we had no time for question or surmise , for , at the moment he spoke , a heavysquall was bearing down upon us , and , as we were then flying with our lee gunwale dipping occasionally under the waves , it was evident that we should have to lower our sail altogether . 
This I soon baled out , while Peterkin again hoisted a corner of the sail ; but the evil which Jack had feared came upon us . 
The water , also , began to wash in over our sides , and I had to keep constantly baling , for Jack could not quit the helm nor Peterkin the sail for an instant , without endangering our lives . 
In the midst of this distress Jack uttered an exclamation of hope , and pointed towards a low island or rock which lay directly ahead . 
`` Show a little bit more sail , '' cried Jack , as we swept past the weather side of the rock with fearful speed . 
Little though the addition was it caused the boat to lie over and creak so loudly , as we cleft the foaming waves , that I expected to be upset every instant ; and I blamed Jack in my heart for his rashness . 
But I did him injustice , for , although during two seconds the water rushed in-board in a torrent , he succeeded in steering us sharply round to the leeward side of the rock , where the water was comparatively calm , and the force of the breeze broken . 
`` Now , boys , '' cried Jack , `` bestir yourselves , and let 's make ourselves comfortable . 
Shoemaking -- The even tenor of our way suddenly interrupted -- An unexpected visit and an appalling battle -- We all become warriors , and Jack proves himself to be a hero . 
Peterkin , as I have said before , was thirteen years of age , Jack eighteen , and I fifteen . 
But Jack was very tall , strong , and manly for his age , and might easily have been mistaken for twenty . 
It is true there were a great many ill-looking puckers in these shoes , but we found them very serviceable notwithstanding , and Jack came at last to prefer them to his long boots . 
As for Jack and I , we began to feel as if water were our native element , and revelled in it with so much confidence and comfort that Peterkin said he feared we would turn into fish some day , and swim off and leave him ; adding , that he had been for a long time observing that Jack was becoming more and more like a shark every day . 
Whereupon Jack remarked , that if he , Peterkin , were changed into a fish , he would certainly turn into nothing better or bigger than a shrimp . 
Poor Peterkin did not envy us our delightful excursions under water , except , indeed , when Jack would dive down to the bottom of the Water Garden , sit down on a rock and look up and make faces at him . 
I was much amused when Peterkin said this ; for if he could only have seen his own face when he happened to take a short dive , he would have seen that Jack 's was far surpassed by it . 
The great difference being , however , that Jack made faces on purpose -- Peterkin could n't help it ! 
Jack and I were sitting , as we were often wont to do , on the rocks at Spouting Cliff , and Peterkin was wringing the water from his garments , having recently fallen by accident into the sea , -- a thing he was constantly doing , -- when our attention was suddenly arrested by two objects which appeared on the horizon . 
I said , addressing Jack . 
`` I ca n't imagine , '' answered he ; `` I 've noticed them for some time , and fancied they were black sea-gulls , but the more I look at them the more I feel convinced they are much larger than gulls . '' 
`` Look there , '' said Jack . 
cried Peterkin , shading his eyes with his hand . 
can they be boats , Jack ? '' 
`` I think you are about right , Peterkin ; -- but they seem to me to move strangely for boats , '' said Jack , in a low tone , as if he were talking to himself . 
I noticed that a shade of anxiety crossed Jack 's countenance as he gazed long and intently at the two objects , which were now nearing us fast . 
At last he sprang to his feet . 
I was greatly alarmed at Jack 's speech , but I confess I thought less of what he said than of the earnest , anxious manner in which he said it , and it was with very uncomfortable feelings that Peterkin and I followed him quickly into the woods . 
`` It matters not , '' said Jack ; `` here are clubs enough and to spare . '' 
As he spoke , he laid his hand on a bundle of stout poles of various sizes , which Peterkin 's ever-busy hands had formed , during our frequent visits to the cliff , for no other purpose , apparently , than that of having something to do . 
Jack and Peterkin and I now looked at each other , and whispered our fears that the savages might clamber up the rocks to search for fresh water , and so discover our place of concealment ; but we were so much interested in watching their movements that we agreed to remain where we were ; and , indeed , we could not easily have risen without exposing ourselves to detection . 
One of the savages now went up to the wood and soon returned with a bundle of fire-wood , and we were not a little surprised to see him set fire to it by the very same means used by Jack the time we made our first fire , -- namely , with the bow and drill . 
As they bore him to the fire my feelings almost overpowered me . 
I gasped for breath , and seizing my club , endeavoured to spring to my feet ; but Jack 's powerful arm pinned me to the earth . 
Next moment one of the savages raised his club , and fractured the wretched creature 's skull . 
He must have died instantly , and , strange though it may seem , I confess to a feeling of relief when the deed was done , because I now knew that the poor savage could not be burned alive . 
Scarcely had his limbs ceased to quiver when the monsters cut slices of flesh from his body , and , after roasting them slightly over the fire , devoured them . 
A low groan burst from Jack 's lips as we witnessed this atrocious act and heard the mother 's shriek , as she fell insensible on the sand . 
`` Peterkin , '' said Jack in a hoarse whisper , `` have you got your knife ? '' 
Jack sprang up , and seized a heavy but short bludgeon , while his strong frame trembled with emotion , and large drops rolled down his forehead . 
At this moment the man who had butchered the savage a few minutes before advanced towards the girl with his heavy club . 
Jack uttered a yell that rang like a death-shriek among the rocks . 
With one bound he leaped over a precipice full fifteen feet high , and , before the savages had recovered from their surprise , was in the midst of them ; while Peterkin and I dashed through the bushes towards the prisoners . 
With one blow of his staff Jack felled the man with the club , then , turning round with a look of fury , he rushed upon the big chief with the yellow hair . 
Had the blow which Jack aimed at his head taken effect , the huge savage would have needed no second stroke ; but he was agile as a cat , and avoided it by springing to one side , while , at the same time , he swung his ponderous club at the head of his foe . 
It was now Jack 's turn to leap aside , and well was it for him that the first outburst of his blind fury was over , else he had become an easy prey to his gigantic antagonist ; but Jack was cool now . 
He darted his blows rapidly and well , and the superiority of his light weapon was strikingly proved in this combat , for while he could easily evade the blows of the chief 's heavy club , the chief could not so easily evade those of his light one . 
Nevertheless , so quick was he , and so frightfully did he fling about the mighty weapon , that , although Jack struck him almost every blow , the strokes had to be delivered so quickly that they wanted-force to be very effectual . 
It was lucky for Jack that the other savages considered the success of their chief in this encounter to be so certain that they refrained from interfering . 
Had they doubted it , they would have probably ended the matter at once by felling him . 
Jack observed this movement . 
He felt that his fate was sealed , and resolved to cast his life upon the next blow . 
The chief 's club was again about to descend on his head . 
He might have evaded it easily , but instead of doing so , he suddenly shortened his grasp of his own club , rushed in under the blow , struck his adversary right between the eyes with all his force and fell to the earth , crushed beneath the senseless body of the chief . 
A dozen clubs flew high in air ready to descend on the head of Jack , but they hesitated a moment , for the massive body of the chief completely covered him . 
We could never have accomplished this had not our enemies been so engrossed with the fight between Jack and their chief that they had failed to observe us until we were upon them . 
Moreover , they were awe-struck by the sweeping fury of Jack , who seemed to have lost his senses altogether , and had no sooner shaken himself free of the chief 's body than he rushed into the midst of them , and in three blows equalized our numbers . 
However , by way of putting an end to it , Jack took the chief -LRB- who had recovered from the effects of his wound -RRB- by the hand and shook it warmly . 
After this ceremony was gone through Jack went up to the girl , who had never once moved from the rock where she had been left , but had continued an eager spectator of all that had passed . 
`` Here , get out o ' the way , '' said Jack , pushing us aside , as we stooped over the poor woman and endeavoured to restore her , `` I 'll soon bring her round . '' 
So saying , he placed the infant on her bosom and laid its warm cheek on hers . 
`` There , that 's all right , '' said Jack , once more taking the chief by the hand . 
I awoke Jack , who started up in surprise , being unable at first to comprehend our situation . 
`` Now , then , '' said he , springing up , `` let 's see after breakfast . 
Jack pointed to his breast and said `` Jack , '' very distinctly ; then he pointed to Peterkin and to me , repeating our names at the same time . 
Then he pointed to himself again , and said `` Jack , '' and laying his finger on the breast of the chief , looked inquiringly into his face . 
Jack repeated it after him , and the chief , nodding his head approvingly , said `` Chuck . '' 
On hearing which , Peterkin exploded with laughter ; but Jack turned and with a frown rebuked him , saying , `` I must look even more indignantly at you than I feel , Peterkin , you rascal , for these fellows do n't like to be laughed at . '' 
Then turning towards the youngest of the women , who was seated at the door of the bower , he pointed to her ; whereupon the chief said , `` Avatea ; '' and pointing towards the sun , raised his finger slowly towards the zenith , where it remained steadily for a minute or two . 
`` What can that mean , I wonder , '' said Jack , looking puzzled . 
We did not feel quite satisfied with this explanation , so Jack went up to her and said , `` Avatea . '' 
The woman smiled sadly , and nodded her head , at the same time pointing to her breast and then to the sun , in the same manner as the chief had done . 
Jack now made signs to the natives to follow him , and , taking up his axe , he led them to the place where the battle had been fought . 
Jack then began to dig a hole in the sand , and , after working a few seconds , he pointed to it and to the dead bodies that lay exposed on the beach . 
The natives immediately perceived what he wanted , and , running for their paddles , dug a hole in the course of half an hour that was quite large enough to contain all the bodies of the slain . 
This wretched man would have recovered from the blow with which Jack felled him , and , indeed , he did endeavour to rise during the melee that followed his fall , but one of his enemies , happening to notice the action , dealt him a blow with his club that killed him on the spot . 
`` Come , come , you blackguard , '' cried Jack , starting up and seizing the man by the arm , `` pitch that into the hole . 
The savage of course did not understand the command , but he perfectly understood the look of disgust with which Jack regarded the flesh , and his fierce gaze as he pointed towards the hole . 
Nevertheless he did not obey . 
Jack instantly turned to Tararo and made signs to him to enforce obedience . 
The chief seemed to understand the appeal , for he stepped forward , raised his club , and was on the point of dashing out the brains of his offending subject , when Jack sprang forward and caught his uplifted arm . 
he shouted , `` you blockhead , I do n't want you to kill the man . '' 
He then pointed again to the flesh and to the hole . 
This man was of a morose , sulky disposition , and , during all the time he remained on the island , regarded us , especially Jack , with a scowling visage . 
His name , we found , was Mahine . 
Being unable to speak to the savages , we went through the ceremony of shaking hands , and expected they would depart ; but , before doing so , Tararo went up to Jack and rubbed noses with him , after which he did the same with Peterkin and me ! 
Going up to Jack , she put out her flat little nose to be rubbed , and thereafter paid the same compliment to Peterkin and me . 
He did not , indeed , jest less heartily than before , but he did so less frequently , and often there was a tone of deep seriousness in his manner , if not in his words , which made him seem to Jack and me as if he had grown two years older within a few days . 
Happening to look up , I observed Peterkin cutting the most extraordinary capers and making violent gesticulations for us to come up ; so I gave Jack a push , and rose immediately . 
Jack , away on the horizon there , just over the entrance to the lagoon ! '' 
said Jack , as he proceeded hastily to dress . 
I did not reply , but looked at Jack , as being our only resource in this emergency . 
He stood with folded arms , and his eyes fixed with a grave , anxious expression on the ground . 
`` There is but one hope , '' said he , turning with a sad expression of countenance to Peterkin ; `` perhaps , after all , we may not have to resort to it . 
Stopping abruptly in his speech , Jack bounded into the woods , and led us by a circuitous route to Spouting Cliff . 
`` You see what we may expect , '' said Jack bitterly . 
`` Now , Peterkin , '' said Jack , in a solemn tone , `` you must make up your mind to do it , or we must make up our minds to die in your company . '' 
`` Oh , Jack , my dear friend , '' cried Peterkin , turning pale , `` leave me ; I do n't believe they 'll think it worth while to kill me . 
`` That will not I , '' answered Jack quietly , while he picked up a stout cudgel from the ground . 
`` Come , then , '' cried Peterkin , starting up , and grasping Jack convulsively by the arm , `` let us dive ; I will go . '' 
Jack and I seized Peterkin by the arms . 
`` Now , keep quite still , no struggling , '' said Jack , `` or we are lost . '' 
Jack now searched for the tinder and torch , which always lay in the cave . 
He soon found them , and , lighting the torch , revealed to Peterkin 's wondering gaze the marvels of the place . 
This done , we proceeded to examine into the state of our larder , for , as Jack truly remarked , there was no knowing how long the pirates might remain on the island . 
said Jack with a smile . 
At various periods Jack and I had conveyed cocoa nuts and other fruits , besides rolls of cocoa-nut cloth , to this submarine cave , partly for amusement , and partly from a feeling that we might possibly be driven one day to take shelter here from the savages . 
We saw by the faint light that it was day , but could not guess at the hour ; so Jack proposed that he should dive out and reconnoitre . 
`` No , Jack , '' said I , `` do you rest here . 
`` Very well , Ralph , '' answered Jack , `` please yourself , but do n't be long ; and if you 'll take my advice you 'll go in your clothes , for I would like to have some fresh cocoa nuts , and climbing trees without clothes is uncomfortable , to say the least of it . '' 
The men , who were utterly silenced with surprise at my audacity , advanced and seized me , and , as they carried me towards the cliff , I congratulated myself not a little on the success of my scheme , for I knew that once in the water I should be safe , and could rejoin Jack and Peterkin in the cave . 
`` Stop your clapper , Jack , '' vociferated a third ; `` give the boy a junck o ' meat . 
Do n't you see he 's a ` most goin ' to kick the bucket ? '' 
`` And no wonder , '' said the first speaker , with an oath , `` after the tumble you gave him into the boat . 
`` Yes , indeed , '' said I energetically ; `` I have spent many of the happiest months in my life on that Coral Island ; '' and without waiting to be further questioned , I launched out into a glowing account of the happy life that Jack and Peterkin and I had spent together , and related minutely every circumstance that befell us while on the island . 
As I thought upon Jack and Peterkin anxious forebodings crossed my mind , and I pictured to myself the grief and dismay with which they would search every nook and corner of the island , in a vain attempt to discover my dead body ; for I felt assured that if they did not see any sign of the pirate schooner or boat , when they came out of the cave to look for me , they would never imagine that I had been carried away . 
I wondered , too , how Jack would succeed in getting Peterkin out of the cave without my assistance ; and I trembled when I thought that he might lose presence of mind , and begin to kick when he was in the tunnel ! 
I was much interested in this , and recollected that Jack had often spoken of many of the islands of the Pacific as being volcanoes , either active or extinct , and had said that the whole region was more or less volcanic , and that some scientific men were of opinion that the islands of the Pacific were nothing more or less than the mountain tops of a huge continent which had sunk under the influence of volcanic agency . 
I stood for a long time watching this party with great interest , and observed that they fastened the timbers and planks to each other very much in the same way in which I had seen Jack fasten those of our little boat . 
`` Right , Bill , '' I replied , `` he is indeed an old acquaintance ; '' and I explained in a few words that he was the chief whose party Jack and Peterkin and I had helped to save . 
`` Well then , Bill , I think we had better steer to the Coral Island , and see what has become of my dear old comrades , Jack and Peterkin . 
The next moment Jack went through exactly the same performance , the only difference being , that his movements were less like those of Jack-in-the-box , though not less vigorous and rapid than those of Peterkin . 
Jack ! 
Throwing off my jacket , I jumped overboard at the same moment that Jack bounded into the sea . 
During the greater part of that period Peterkin did nothing but roast pigs , taro , and bread-fruit , and ply me with plantains , plums , potatoes , and cocoanuts , while I related to him and Jack the terrible and wonderful adventures I had gone through since we last met . 
As for Jack , he clenched his teeth , and shook his fist towards the sea , saying at the same time , that he was sorry he had not broken Tararo 's head , and he only hoped that one day he should be able to plant his knuckles on the bridge of that chief 's nose ! 
`` Well , you must know , '' began Jack , `` after you had dived out of the cave , on the day you were taken away from us , we waited very patiently for half an hour , not expecting you to return before the end of that time . 
interrupted Peterkin , looking at Jack over the edge of a monstrous potato which he happened to be devouring at the time . 
`` Well , '' continued Jack , `` you may guess my consternation when you did not answer to my halloo . 
And I tell you , Ralph , my boy , that I shed more tears that time , at losing you , than I have done , I verily believe , all my life before -- '' `` Pardon me , Jack , for interrupting , '' said Peterkin ; `` surely you must be mistaken in that ; you 've often told me that , when you were a baby , you used to howl and roar from morning to -- '' `` Hold your tongue , Peterkin , '' cried Jack . 
However , there was no help for it , and I endeavoured to calm his fears as well as I could : ` for , ' said I , ` you ca n't live here , Peterkin ; ' to which he replied , ` Of course not , Jack , I can only die here , and , as that 's not at all desirable , you had better propose something . ' 
So I suggested that he should take a good long breath , and trust himself to me . 
he asked , with a haggard smile . 
`` Well , well , so be it , '' resumed Jack , with a smile , `` but the upshot of it was , that we had to hold an - other consultation on the point , and I really believe that , had it not been for a happy thought of mine , we should have been consulting there yet . '' 
`` The thought was this , '' continued Jack , `` that I should tie Peterkin 's hands and feet with cords , and then lash him firmly to a stout pole about five feet long , in order to render him quite powerless , and keep him straight and stiff . 
You should have seen his face of horror , Ralph , when I suggested this : but he came to see that it was his only chance , and told me to set about it as fast as I could ; ` for , ' said he , ` this is no jokin ' , Jack , I can tell you , and the sooner it 's done the better . ' 
I soon procured the cordage and a suitable pole , with which I returned to the cave , and lashed him as stiff and straight as an Egyptian mummy ; and , to say truth , he was no bad representation of what an English mummy would be , if there were such things , for he was as white as a dead man . '' 
`` I promised to pay the strictest attention to his wishes , and swam with him to the outlet of the cave . 
`` It was I who sent you that , Jack , '' said I , with a smile . 
cried Peterkin , energetically , starting to his feet and extending his open hand to Jack . 
`` I 'll give you an I.O.U. in the meantime , '' returned Jack , laughing , `` so sit down and be quiet . 
`` Well , we found it very useful , '' continued Jack ; `` although some of it had got a little damp ; and we furbished up the old pistol , with which Peterkin is a crack shot now . 
`` And now , '' continued Jack , `` I have a great desire to visit some of the other islands of the South Seas . 
`` Well , then , '' said Jack , `` it seems to me that we could not do better than shape our course for the island on which Avatea lives , and endeavour to persuade Tararo to let her marry the black fellow to whom she is engaged , instead of making a long pig of her . 
This plan of Jack 's was quite in accordance with his romantic , impulsive nature ; and , having made up his mind to save this black girl , he could not rest until the thing was commenced . 
These we conveyed on board in our little boat , after having carved our names on a chip of iron-wood , thus : -- JACK MARTIN , RALPH ROVER , PETERKIN GAY , which we fixed up inside of the bower . 
We had no difficulty now in managing our sails , for Jack was heavy and powerful , while Peterkin was active as a kitten . 
Although , therefore , we could now manage our sails easily , we nevertheless found that my pulleys were of much service to us in some things ; though Jack did laugh heartily at the uncouth arrangement of ropes and blocks , which had , to a sailor 's eye , a very lumbering and clumsy appearance . 
`` Now , boys , '' said Jack , as we seated ourselves beside him on the cabin sky-light , `` before we go farther in this business , we must go over the pros and cons of it ; for , although you have so generously consented to stick by me through thick and thin , it would be unfair did I not see that you thoroughly understand the danger of what we are about to attempt . '' 
bother the danger , '' cried Peterkin ; `` I wonder to hear you , Jack , talk of danger . 
`` Nay , Peterkin , '' replied Jack , gravely , `` I wo n't be jested out of it . 
`` 'T is a pity , '' said Jack , `` that the Christian tribe is so small , for we shall scarcely be safe under their protection , I fear . 
`` Then , what I propose is this , '' said Jack : `` We will run round to the south side of the island , and cast anchor off the Christian village . 
`` Come , out with it , Jack ; according to your own showing , it 's well to look the danger straight in the face ! '' 
`` The fact is , Jack , I do n't believe that Tararo will be so ungrateful as to eat us ; and I 'm quite sure that he 'll be too happy to grant us whatever we ask : so the sooner we go in and win the better . '' 
He was clad in a respectable suit of European clothes ; and the first words he uttered , as he stepped up to Jack and shook hands with him , were , -- `` Good day , gentlemen ; we are happy to see you at Mango -- you are heartily welcome . '' 
After returning his salutation , Jack exclaimed , `` You must be the native missionary teacher of whom I have heard -- are you not ? '' 
`` You 're the very man I want to see , then , '' replied Jack ; `` that 's lucky . 
`` Thank you , '' said the teacher , as he followed Jack to the cabin , `` I do not drink wine or any strong drink . '' 
In about half an hour Jack and the teacher came on deck , and the latter , bidding us a cheerful good evening , entered his canoe and paddled to the shore . 
When he was gone , Peterkin stepped up to Jack , and , touching his cap , said , -- `` Well , captain , have you any communications to make to your men ? '' 
`` Yes , '' cried Jack ; `` ready about , mind the helm and clew up your tongue , while I con the schooner through the passage in the reef . 
While the vessel was slowly advancing to her anchorage , under a light breeze , Jack explained to us that Avatea was still on the island , living amongst the heathens ; that she had expressed a strong desire to join the Christians , but Tararo would not let her , and kept her constantly in close confinement . 
`` Moreover , '' continued Jack , `` I find that she belongs to one of the Samoan Islands , where Christianity had been introduced long before her capture by the heathens of a neighbouring island ; and the very day after she was taken , she was to have joined the church which had been planted there by that excellent body , the London Missionary Society . 
inquired Jack . 
To some of these Jack put questions through the medium of the missionary ; and the replies were such as to surprise us at the extent of their knowledge . 
Indeed , Peterkin very truly remarked that `` they seemed to know a considerable deal more than Jack himself ! '' 
''' We all heartily agreed with the missionary in this sentiment , and felt not a little gratified to find that the opinions which Jack and I had been led to form from personal observation on our Coral Island were thus to a great extent corroborated . 
He said : `` When missionaries were first sent here , three years ago , a small vessel brought them ; and the chief , who is now dead , promised to treat well the two native teachers who were left with their wives on the island . 
inquired Jack . 
I trust , my friends , '' he added , looking earnestly into our faces , `` I trust that if you ever return to England , you will tell your Christian friends that the horrors which they hear of in regard to these islands are literally true , and that when they have heard the worst , the ` half has not been told them ; ' for there are perpetrated here foul deeds of darkness of which man may not speak . 
You may also tell them , '' he said , looking around with a smile , while a tear of gratitude trembled in his eye and rolled down his coal-black cheek , -- `` tell them of the blessings that the gospel has wrought here ! '' 
We assured our friend that we would certainly not forget his request . 
As the teacher concluded this anecdote we reached his door . 
Saying that he had business to attend to , he left us to amuse ourselves as we best could . 
`` Now , lads , '' said Jack , turning abruptly towards us , and buttoning up his jacket as he spoke , `` I 'm off to see the battle . 
`` If they chance to see us we 'll cut and run for it , '' added Jack . 
`` So I would , if it were my duty to fight , '' returned Jack , coolly ; `` but as I do n't want to fight , and do n't intend to fight , if they offer to attack us I 'll run away like the veriest coward that ever went by the name of Peterkin . 
A strange and bloody battle -- The lion bearded in his den -- Frightful scenes of cruelty , and fears for the future . 
`` You do not know , '' said he , turning to Jack , `` the danger you run in venturing amongst these ferocious savages . 
`` Well , '' said Jack , quietly , `` I am not afraid to die in a good cause . '' 
The teacher smiled approvingly at him as he said this , and after a little further conversation agreed to accompany us as interpreter ; saying that , although Tararo was unfriendly to him , he had hitherto treated him with respect . 
Peterkin , too , did not seem to like it , and I thought would willingly have escaped ; but Jack seemed deeply impressed , and wore an anxious expression on his naturally grave countenance , while he assented to the teacher 's remarks and put to him many earnest questions . 
`` Now , lads , '' said Jack , as we were about to step into our little boat , `` I 'm not going to take any weapons with me , and I recommend you to take none either . 
inquired Jack when the savage had concluded . 
`` Well , '' cried Jack , rising ; `` if he wo n't come to see me , I 'll e ` en go and see him . 
`` I can not , '' said the teacher , shaking his head ; `` I must not go to the heathen temples and witness their inhuman rites , except for the purpose of condemning their wickedness and folly . '' 
`` Very good , '' returned Jack ; `` then I 'll go alone , for I can not condemn their doings till I have seen them . '' 
Jack arose , and we , having determined to go also , followed him through the banana groves to a rising ground immediately behind the village , on the top of which stood the Bur , or temple , under the dark shade of a group of iron-wood trees . 
I shuddered involuntarily as I recollected the sacrifice of human victims at the island of Emo , and turned with a look of fear to Jack as I said , -- `` Oh , Jack ! 
Jack 's face wore an expression of deep compassion as he said , in a low voice , `` No fear , Ralph ; the sufferings of these poor fellows are over long ago . '' 
I turned with a start as he spoke , and , glancing at the men , who were now quite near to the spot where we stood , saw that they were all dead . 
`` Come , come , '' cried Jack , on beholding this horrible tragedy , `` we have seen enough , enough , far more than enough ! 
Jack 's face looked ghastly pale and haggard as we hurried back to rejoin the teacher , and I have no doubt that he felt terrible anxiety when he considered the number and ferocity of the savages , and the weakness of the few arms which were ready indeed to essay , but impotent to effect , Avatea 's deliverance from these ruthless men . 
`` Tell him , '' said Jack , `` that I consider that I have a right to ask this of him , having not only saved the girl 's life , but the lives of his own people also ; and say that I wish her to be allowed to follow her own wishes , and join the Christians . '' 
He replied with considerable energy , and at some length . 
inquired Jack . 
Jack bit his lip in suppressed anger . 
`` Tell Tararo , '' he exclaimed with flashing eye , `` that if he does not grant my demand , it will be worse for him . 
inquired the chief , who seemed nettled by Jack 's looks of defiance . 
my dear young friend , '' whispered the teacher , in a voice of deep emotion , while he seized Jack by the arm , `` she is to be made a sacrifice even now ! '' 
cried Jack , with a vehement shout , spurning the teacher aside , and dashing over two natives who stood in his way , while he rushed towards the heap , sprang up its side , and seized Avatea by the arm . 
In another moment he dragged her down , placed her back to a large tree , and , wrenching a war-club from the hand of a native who seemed powerless and petrified with surprise , whirled it above his head , and yelled , rather than shouted , while his face blazed with fury , `` Come on , the whole nation of you , an ye like it , and do your worst ! '' 
It seemed as though the challenge had been literally accepted ; for every savage on the ground ran precipitately at Jack with club and spear , and , doubtless , would speedily have poured out his brave blood on the sod , had not the teacher rushed in between them , and , raising his voice to its utmost , cried , -- `` Stay your hands , warriors ! 
The natives were arrested ; and I know not whether it was the gratifying acknowledgment of his superiority thus made by the teacher , or some lingering feeling of gratitude for Jack 's former aid in time of need , that influenced Tararo , but he stepped forward , and , waving his hand , said to his people , -- `` Desist . 
Then , turning to Jack , he said , `` You have forfeited your liberty and life to me . 
exclaimed Jack , passionately , `` I may die , but , assuredly , I shall not perish alone . 
Jack hesitated a moment , then lowered his club , and , throwing it moodily to the ground , crossed his arms on his breast , and hung down his head in silence . 
Tararo seemed pleased by his submission , and told the teacher to say that he did not forget his former services , and , therefore , would leave him free as to his person , but that the schooner would be detained till he had further considered the matter . 
While the teacher translated this , he approached as near to where Avatea was standing as possible , without creating suspicion , and whispered to her a few words in the native language . 
Tararo now advanced , and taking the girl by the hand , led her unresistingly away , while Jack , Peterkin , and I returned with the teacher on board the schooner . 
On reaching the deck , we went down to the cabin , where Jack threw himself , in a state of great dejection , on a couch ; but the teacher seated himself by his side , and , laying his hand upon his shoulder , said , -- `` Do not give way to anger , my young friend . 
cried Jack , raising himself , and tossing back his hair wildly ; `` it is mockery to talk of acting when one is bound hand and foot . 
Yes , '' he said , with a bitter smile , `` I can fight them , but I can not conquer them , or save Avatea . '' 
cried Jack , eagerly , `` of course I will , my good fellow ; I did not know you had any plans . 
said Jack , impatiently . 
`` Friend , '' replied Jack , `` when I make up my mind to go through with a thing of importance , I can make any sacrifice . '' 
inquired Jack . 
Perhaps they will kill me ; but , '' he added , looking at Jack with a peculiar smile , `` I too am not afraid to die in a good cause ! '' 
inquired Jack . 
`` I have counted it , '' replied Jack . 
Besides , '' added Jack , looking seriously into the teacher 's face , `` your Bible , -- our Bible , tells of One who delivers those who call on Him in the time of trouble ; who holds the winds in his fists and the waters in the hollow of his hand . '' 
We now set about active preparations for the intended voyage ; collected together such things as we should require , and laid out on the deck provisions sufficient to maintain us for several weeks , purposing to load the canoe with as much as she could hold consistently with speed and safety . 
When night spread her sable curtain over the scene , we prepared to land ; but , first , kneeling along with the natives and the teacher , the latter implored a blessing on our enterprise . 
here you are , '' said Jack , as Avatea approached . 
exclaimed Jack , in amazement ; you were dumb as a stone when I saw you last . '' 
We now gave Avatea a full explanation of our plans , entering into all the details , and concealing none of the danger , so that she might be fully aware of the risk she ran . 
As we had anticipated , she was too glad of the opportunity thus afforded her to escape from her persecutors to think of the danger or risk . 
said Jack . 
After some further consultation , the teacher suggested that it was time to return , so we bade Avatea good night , and having appointed to meet at the cliff where the canoe lay , on the following night , just after dark , we hastened away -- we to row on board the schooner with muffled oars -- Avatea to glide back to her prison-hut among the Mango savages . 
The flight -- The pursuit -- Despair and its results -- The lion bearded in his den again -- Awful danger threatened and wonderfully averted -- A terrific storm . 
Help me to shove off the canoe , '' whispered Jack to the teacher ; `` and Peterkin , do you shove these blankets aboard , we may want them before long . 
Jack had taken the bearing of the island just after starting , and laying a small pocket-compass before him , kept the head of the canoe due south , for our chance of hitting the island depended very much on the faithfulness of our steersman in keeping our tiny bark exactly and constantly on its proper course . 
As the sun 's lower limb dipped on the gilded edge of the sea Jack ceased working , threw down his paddle , and called a halt . 
`` There , '' he cried , heaving a deep , long-drawn sigh , `` we 've put a considerable breadth of water between us and these black rascals , so now we 'll have a hearty supper and a sound sleep . '' 
`` Nobly spoken , Jack . 
If so , Ralph , you might come round to the front here and feed her quietly , while Jack and I are tucking into the victuals . 
However , do n't talk so much , and hand me the pork before Jack finishes it . 
A paltry little villain , '' said Jack , quietly , as he tossed the hind legs -LRB- including the tail -RRB- of a cold roast pig to his comrade ; `` and I must again express my regret that unavoidable circumstances have thrust your society upon me , and that necessity has compelled me to cultivate your acquaintance . 
Between you and Jack I run a chance of being put on short allowance , if not -- yei -- a -- a -- ow ! '' 
Peterkin 's concluding remark was a yawn of so great energy that Jack recommended him to postpone the conclusion of his meal till next morning , -- a piece of advice which he followed so quickly , that I was forcibly reminded of his remark , a few minutes before , in regard to the sharp practice of Avatea . 
cried Jack , starting up . 
With a groan of mingled despair and anger Jack seized his paddle , glanced at the compass , and , in a suppressed voice , commanded us to `` give way . '' 
`` I see something like land ahead , '' said Jack , in a hopeful tone . 
Silently , and with a look of bitter determination on his face , Jack lifted one of the light boat-oars that we had brought with us , and , resting it on his shoulder , stood up in an attitude of bold defiance . 
When not sparkling with fun , it usually wore a mild , sad expression , which was deepened on the present occasion , as he glanced at Avatea , who sat with her face resting in her hands upon her knees . 
Jack and Peterkin raised their oars , while , with a feeling of madness whirling in my brain , I grasped my paddle and prepared for the onset . 
What occurred after this I can not tell , for I was nearly drowned ; but when I recovered from the state of insensibility into which I had been thrown , I found myself stretched on my back , bound hand and foot between Jack and Peterkin , in the bottom of the large canoe . 
`` Tell him , '' replied Jack , `` that we have not abused his hospitality , for his hospitality has not been extended to us . 
The teacher shook his head . 
`` I care not , '' replied Jack . 
On hearing Jack 's speech , Tararo frowned and his eye flashed with anger . 
`` Go , '' he said , `` presumptuous boy . 
As he spoke he rose and signed to several of his attendants , who seized Jack , and Peterkin , and me , violently by the collars , and , dragging us from the hut of the chief , led us through the wood to the outskirts of the village . 
dear Jack and Peterkin , '' said I , `` what is to become of us ? 
`` I know not , '' replied Jack , in a tremulous voice , `` I know not ; Ralph , I regret deeply the hastiness of my violent temper , which , I must confess , has been the chief cause of our being brought to this sad condition . 
It is true Jack made a vigorous resistance , and knocked down the first savage who seized him , with a well-directed blow of his fist , but he was speedily overpowered by others . 
said Jack , in a listless tone , on rising one morning from his humble couch . 
While I hesitated , Jack sat down beside him , and whispered a few words in his ear , while Peterkin threw himself on his friend 's breast , and rested his head on his shoulder . 
But , to our surprise , instead of doing so , he advanced towards us with a knife in his hand , and , going up to Jack , he cut the thongs that bound his wrists , then he did the same to Peterkin and me ! 
On seeing Jack , who came out first , he sprang towards him , and clasping him in his arms , exclaimed , -- `` Oh ! 
cried Jack . 
inquired Jack . 
`` That 's capital , '' said Jack , as he stepped up to the savage and gave him a hearty shake of the hand . 
As Jack spoke , Avatea 's lover took him by the hand and led him to the spot where Tararo and the missionary stood , surrounded by most of the chief men of the tribe . 
The girl herself followed , and stood on his left hand while her lover stood on his right , and , commanding silence , made the following speech , which was translated by the missionary : -- `` Young friend , you have seen few years , but your head is old . 
To this kind speech Jack returned a short sailor-like reply , in which he insisted that he had only done for Avatea what he would have done for any woman under the sun . 
But Jack 's forte did not lie in speech-making , so he terminated rather abruptly by seizing the chief 's hand and shaking it violently , after which he made a hasty retreat . 
`` Now , then , Ralph and Peterkin , '' said Jack , as we mingled with the crowd , `` it seems to me that the object we came here for having been satisfactorily accomplished , we have nothing more to do but get ready for sea as fast as we can , and hurrah for dear old England ! '' 
As the missionary intended to remain for several weeks longer , in order to encourage and confirm his new converts , Jack and Peterkin and I held a consultation in the cabin of our schooner , -- which we found just as we had left her , for everything that had been taken out of her was restored . 
