Adding the name Jessy to that of the mother , it was called Jessy Yensi . 
As the infant Jessy grew to be a child , not only did she become an idol to the fond parents , but her exquisite beauty , her speaking countenance , her perfect symmetry of feature and form , her richly intelligent eye , the silken and clustering curls of auburn , that hung over the alabaster shoulders of the charming little girl , gained for her the appellation among the Indians , whose common parlance was poetry , of ` Wakona , ' or the bird of paradise . 
All the ideal forms of beauty , that had ever been painted on the teeming imagination of her father , during his life of silent meditation , were embodied in the little Jessy . 
The nation journied by easy stages ; and the little Jessy and her mother were thus accustomed to the most varied aspects of nature , as she shows herself in that country of valleys , torrents and mountains . 
In this perpetual change of place and scene , the young Jessy spent a portion of every summer , at that period , when the heart and character are developing together . 
-- From infancy he had put forth the buddings of endowment almost as singular , as that of Jessy . 
Though retaining a touch of the copper visage and the distinct black lank locks of his father , his countenance was noble and Italian ; his forehead high , his eye , like that of the eagle , capable of drinking in the sunbeams ; his form tall , agile , graceful , though rather inclined to slender ; with the clean limbs and lofty port of his father ; like him rather inclining to silence , sternness and passionate perseverance in his opinions and purposes . 
From his mother he was ardent , impetuous , and addicted to the gratification of his propensities . 
The tribe beheld in him the miniature of all , that they could imagine of great and noble . 
Scarcely two years older than Jessy , they had played together from infancy ; and had learned , in the affectionate speech of the Shoshonee , to call each other by appellations equivalent to brother and sister . 
The second was hatred to Nelesho , son of the sub-chief of the Shienne , who frequently came , also , to play with Jessy , and who was of the same age with himself . 
The third was a gloomy and desponding feeling , compounded perhaps of envy and shame , to see his foster-sister , younger than himself , comprehend lessons with perfect ease , of which , he said , his poor head could make nothing . 
The Shienne looked forward to him , as their deliverer from the thraldom of the Shoshonee ; and the boy himself , catching their feelings in secret , regarded himself as one , who might entertain equal aspirations with Areskoui . 
Nelesho loved Jessy , as early as Areskoui , and as early gave him to understand , that he should always be in the way to compete with him for her favor . 
Very early had the feelings of Jessy inclined her to take part with Areskoui . 
For Jessy he early contracted an absorbing and parental fondness ; and she repaid it by listening with untiring attention to his exposition of the scriptures , and a filial confidence bounding on veneration . 
Until the age of ten , Jessy had felt towards him sentiments of infantine fondness , which inclined her to expect , and desire his society in her childish sports . 
She had taken a natural pleasure , in teaching him lessons , in which he was slow . 
Even Jessy , amiable as she was , felt , in such cases , the pride of conscious superiority . 
But so entire and absorbing was the affection of Areskoui , that his proud and sensitive nature was not humbled , in yielding the palm to her , to whom he was willing to allow all kinds of superiority belonged by right . 
But from that time his visits , and especially those of Nelesho , were often felt as an annoyance . 
He sometimes ventured to show her some of the accustomed marks of Indian civility and preference . 
A fight between him and Areskoui was the frequent consequence . 
Nelesho saw it , and his proud and revengeful heart inly determined , that if he might not hope the favor of Jessy , at least the son of his liege chief should not enjoy it . 
Jessy , too , began by degrees to comprehend all this ; and the attentions and marks of affection from Areskoui , which had formerly been matter of gratification , or indifference , began to excite recoil and pain . 
She comprehended , that Areskoui was noble in many respects . 
She repeated incessantly to herself , that his mother was a Christian and of the white race . 
She saw him as the rising sun to all the young of two tribes , and invested with all the homage , paid to one , soon to be in power . 
Areskoui was elected at eighteen to the trust of first war chief of the united tribes ; and he now loved Jessy with a fervor and vehemence of passion , which had matured with the developement of his mental and physical powers . 
You should see our Jessy , or Wakona , as the Indians have named her . 
The grave manner and tones of the minister were warrant for him , that he would utter neither hyperbole , nor extravagance ; and he assured them , ` that to have any idea of the scenery of the Shoshonee valley , and the unrivalled loveliness of Jessy Weldon , they must see , for that words gave no idea of it . ' 
Of course William Weldon 's family was apprised of the arrival of the two fine young gentlemen , of whose beauty of person , and polish of manners and intellectual improvement he unwittingly said enough , to bring a full tinge of the rose on the lily ground of Jessy 's cheek , and a curiosity that reached quite to the limits of being pleasant . 
Hatch declared , that Jessy Weldon was , indeed , a severebeauty , ' well known to be his last superlative . 
The tremulous voice of Jessy was mingled with that of her father and mother , as sweet and soft as the breezy influence upon the strings of the æolian harp , as they chaunted their praises of the Living God . 
It would be difficult to imagine the feelings of Jessy , as she heard perfect music , for the first time , discoursing the mournful and low notes of lamentation and grief . 
But Jessy , with a frame , in which every nerve was attuned to music , and its consequent enthusiasm , and over whose soul it brought in a moment , countless shadowy imaginings and thoughts of heaven , listened with an excitement almost painful ; watching the ineffable surprise marked upon the countenances of her parents . 
` It does , indeed , ' replied her husband , ` bring over my thoughts images of heaven . 
asked Jessy . 
The foreign countenance and air of Yensi , an eye that glistened , and melted , and told of fathomless love , and acute intellect , designated her by the resemblance of the forehead and the eye , as the mother of Jessy . 
But no one who saw Jessy Weldon , thought much of her dress . 
Nor will they , who have travelled much , and seen strange things bestowed in strange places , admire , that such an one as Jessy grew up in the valleys of the Oregon among the Shoshonee . 
To crown their confusion , they apprehended , that Jessy saw it , and made efforts not to smile , in view of their confusion . 
Even the tall and stern Indians seemed to be transformed in their eyes to superior beings ; and they might have reported their estimate of this spectacle , as the embassador of Pyrrhus did his impression of the Roman senate , when he saw it for the first time . 
Jessy stole a look at her father 's countenance , and a volume of words could not have explained more explicitly , what was passing in his mind . 
After a moment of seemingly earnest deliberation , and looking intensely in the face of his wife , he hesitatingly gave consent to the request . 
It would be unnatural to suppose , that the eye of Jessy had not perceived , in a moment , that Julius Landino was a youth , that equalled in person , manners and dress , or rather transcended any of all the heroes in her father 's romances . 
It would be equally unnatural to imagine , that Jessy Weldon , thus singularly brought in contact with these young strangers , one of them at least most elegant in person and manners , did not find her curiosity and interest piqued , did not feel a novel and keen sensation of wonder and delight , in being thus enabled to form those estimates and comparisons , which the creations of her imagination had so often inclined her to wish to institute . 
The factor and musicians , as they retired to spend the night with Trader Hatch , the publican of the village , discussed the beauty of Jessy Weldon , in the use of all their superlatives . 
What were the thoughts of Jessy Weldon , as she retired to her bed ? 
Such was the time , in which the family of William Weldon , accompanied by Elder Wood , and Jessy , adorned in the dress which had been selected in her night meditations , brushed away the dews of morning from their path , as they set forth to meet the new guests of the valley at the house of Trader Hatch . 
Neither they nor Jessy felt , as often has happened in such cases , that the highly colored imaginings of the night ended in disappointed convictions of illusion in the morning . 
Jessy , glowing with the excitement of the occasion and the influence of youth and spring , was dressed in a green Chinese silk , of the texture of those dresses , intended for the daughter of a Mandarin , and such as would have been worn by her mother in her own country . 
Ellswatta , his wife , and three of the leading chiefs of the Shoshonee and Shienne , and the young chiefs , Areskoui and Nelesho , were also there , with countenances indicating either pensiveness or dissatisfaction ; though each , without any faltering of bashfulness , advanced to offer Jessy the customary morning salutations of their people . 
A certain paleness of evident , though suppressed emotion , imparted to him such an interest , so well sustained by his picturesque dress , that Jessy , as she glanced a look upon him , internally remarked , that she had never seen him to so much advantage . 
During these promenades , the young strangers and Jessy began to acquire that tone of intercourse , which resulted from their having a position that gave decorum to a familiarity , which they would not have meditated , or Jessy allowed , had not her parents been present , to see , but not to hear . 
Though Jessy sometimes replied to them , and with great discretion and propriety , and at times threw into her comments upon their accounts of their country and hers a considerable degree of arch irony , her general purpose was to hear , rather than answer ; and to call them out , and learn their leading impressions ; and if they had character , to satisfy herself what it was . 
But for the two young gentlemen , nothing would have offered sufficient excitement to have turned their attention for a moment from the chief object of their pursuit , -- unwitnessed , and unmolested conversation with Jessy . 
Even Josepha , thoughtless as she was , and occupied with the present , could not prevent feeling a pang of jealousy , as she compared the present intercourse between Jessy and the young gentlemen , with that , which she had so often witnessed between her and her son . 
The young gentlemen were lavish in all the customary civilities of the table ; conversed with Jessy in half whispers , not unfrequently put to the blush by the felt superiority of the intelligence and ready irony of her remarks . 
In conversations , like these , Jessy had imperceptibly led the way to rejoin their parents and the strangers . 
Some of the Indian girls , most intimate with Jessy , were approaching to rouge her fair cheeks in the same way . 
` You see , ' said Jessy to the strangers , ` how cheaply we make ourselves happy . ' 
For , avoiding all advances from the Indian girls , they confined themselves assiduously to Jessy , around whose steps constantly hovered not only her parents , and those of the two young chiefs , but Areskoui and Nelesho themselves . 
Nor was it among the least of their vexations , that the young strangers could carry on a conversation with Jessy in English , not a word of which they could understand , and the meaning and purport of which they could only divine by the effect upon the countenance of the parties . 
Through all his affected humility , Jessy failed not to perceive , with something like pique , that he strongly felt , that they were to be pitied , as ignorant of true enjoyment and of all grace and polish , who had not been trained in these places . 
` Fair sons of the pale face , ' he said , as Jessy translated , ` I keep kind thoughts of you in my bosom ; for Wakona is of your race . 
Jessy blushed of course , as she rendered his energetic compliment into English ; smiling as she told them , that the first duty of a translator was fidelity to the meaning . 
-LSB- Here Jessy refused to translate , as pretending not to understand . -RSB- 
His brow relaxed , and all seemed forgotten . 
A delightful conversation ensued ; and Jessy , notwithstanding she had rebuked the strangers , keenly felt , that the converse , alternately witty , and tender , affectionate and polite , now narrative , and then description , of these intelligent and graceful young men , was a treat , as high , as it was new . 
To compare , and discriminate between them , soon became a study for Jessy . 
Jessy requested the party , meanwhile to accompany her to her favorite and well known haunt , the ` blue lake . ' 
This , of course , produced not a little merriment , as the young men cautiously stepped up the rocks , and looked over , insisting , that Jessy should make trial of her fortune at the same time . 
She de-clined , on the ground , that the charm only lasted for the first look , and that she had made the experiment a thousand times . 
Jessy called them to her grotto , where was the finest point of view , in which to contemplate this grand spectacle . 
There were her drawing materials . 
There were the books which she was reading at the time . 
There , with the village , the smoke of her father 's abode , the scenes of humble life on the plains , and the grandeur of the everlasting mountains above -- and the mimic paradise in the lake continually under her eye , she had spent many of her happiest days alone . 
Here she had commenced her first efforts at imitating nature with the pencil . 
The young gentlemen surveyed many of her landscapes . 
As a copyist of nature , she could have formed no other , than those , in which sublimity and beauty were blended . 
It will be superfluous to those , acquainted with Indian manners , to remark , that each of the stranger guests , except the two young gentlemen , who seemed solely devoted to Jessy , were assiduously attended with store of young women of the valley , who expected to accompany them to the show of the evening ; and the voice of shouting and laughter was heard ; and the ancient walls of the abode echoed from every side sounds of hilarity and mirth . 
We are so simply and naturally imitative and sympathetic , that Jessy herself , with whatever associations she generally thought of this people , caught the enthusiasm from the rest , and waited with a feeling , which can only be known by sensation , for the expected sport . 
While the warriors were struggling for foot-hold in the almost icy waters , deeper in general than their middle , and of a strong current , Jessy was relating to the young gentlemen the origin , purpose , history and circumstances of this ceremonial . 
The spectacle , so contemplated , as Jessy remarked , presented the eager excitement of the Indians , on this occasion , in a light neither unreasonable nor without motives . 
Jessy gaily replied , ` that whoever might have the honor , that evening , of being elected lady-love by the winner , she had no doubt , that the honored person would receive it from the hand of an Indian , even though they should have entered themselves as competitors . ' 
This was the time , when a person acquainted with their manners , as Jessy explained , might see the portraiture of their strong nationality . 
The guests from Astoria had no need to feign the semblance of ecstacy ; for their youthful admiration of exciting and dangerous sport partially transferred their thoughts from Jessy . 
They even expressed surprise , while Josepha and Yensi gave their whole interest to the spectacle , that Jessy turned away with aversion from this scene of bustle and shouting . 
It happened , that Jessy stood near him . 
He asked her how she had passed the evening ? 
She questioned him in return , what success had attended his spear ? 
He replied , in his own speech , ` Wakona , thy brother has been under the influence of a malign star . 
Even Yensi showed chagrin and vexation , while the young men remarked , with painful surprize , that Jessy turned as pale as death . 
But Ellswatta , whatever he thought , and felt , weighed the fish with the inflexible calmness of Indian justice . 
His fierce eye glistened , and various shades of satisfaction sat on his countenance , as it recognized , caught , and communicated the satisfaction of his own Shienne . 
His admirable form seemed to be drawn up to super-human height , as , amidst a silence of ecstacy , he held up the shining salmon , exhibiting not a wound or a trace of blood , and measuring more than half the length of the tall chief . 
It was hard to say , who suffered most , while the decision of Nelesho was pending , Jessy or Areskoui . 
Though belonging , in the general range of his thoughts , to the white race , in his superstitious veneration for this kind of success , he was altogether a red man . 
Nor could he imagine , that this triumph had not as much importance in the mind of Jessy and the young stranger guests , as it had in his own . 
But he struggled with himself , and became calm , as he would have been , had he been about to be bound to the stake . 
Every eye , especially every female eye , was fixed upon Nelesho , his rival , who cherished for him a deadly , and concealed hatred , not the less so , because political motives induced both to smother it . 
His eye quailed , as he noted the young Shienne directing his course to the point , where Jessy stood . 
As he moved through the crowd , cheered by deafening acclamations , especially of his own people , the proud spirit of Areskoui suffered inexpressible tortures . 
The heart of Jessy beat quick , almost to suffocation . 
Even the young visitants from Astoria caught the infectious impulse of the multitude , and the thrill of sensation was not wholly unaccompanied by envy , as the haughty chief gracefully laid the prize on the grass at the feet of Jessy . 
The closing words met only the ear of Jessy . 
It would need no effort of the imagination to paint the situation of Jessy , as a thousand female voices cried , ` Wakona , accept the love of the young chief . ' 
Better feelings had come to the relief of Jessy . 
As she passed Areskoui , and saw the deep and poignant suffering on his brow , she said to herself , ` shall I basely forego all good feelings , because these strangers behold me ? 
He has shown me the confirmed kindness of years , and these men are , as he says , the acquaintances of a day . 
She bestowed in passing a look of unwonted kindness upon him . 
Josepha , Yensi , William Weldon , and Elder Wood , formed one party , and the two young gentlemen , a half breed domestic girl of William Weldon 's , and Jessy , another , for a long promenade to survey various interesting points of the valley . 
They compared their own drawings , and those of Jessy , of course with infinite praise to the latter , and discussed the comparative advantages of genius , endowment , discipline , and the direct imitation of nature , with that of the finest models of art . 
` Thank you , ' replied Jessy gaily , ` what astonishingly polite and complimentary guests . 
The preacher was clad in a full black suit of canonicals , put in order by Jessy and her mother . 
Long and deeply had he meditated his subject ; and while he would have severely tasked Jessy and the young men , for devoting midnight vigils to considering , in what dress they should appear next day , he overlooked his own night-watchings , where the All Seeing Eye , probably , discovered , that the chief element in his meditations , was to produce an imposing display of oratory this evening . 
On the first were the white people , the visitants , and Jessy in the brightness of her beauty , but with the thoughtful look , which she always bore at divine service , as if waiting to hear . 
Such was the scope of a sermon , not without sense and eloquence , but without judgment and discrimination , which produced little impression upon most of the white people , which operated in the naturally acute and discerning intellects of the Indians positive dislike , and unbelief , and which confounded the docile , but enquiring spirit of Jessy . 
Having finished , as was his custom , he called upon any of the hearers , if they had any thing on their minds relating to religion , to declare if ; and if they had any thing to object , he would be willing to hear them state their objections , that at the next meeting he might be ready to obviate them . 
Tutsaugee , or The Changing Wind , was the chief reasoner among this people ; and to him was generally assigned the part of reasoning , and commenting upon points , which , it was expected , the Indians would answer . 
He had acquired great readiness and acuteness at this kind of exercise , and was the professed debater and disputant of the Shoshonee . 
Jessy , too , as she retired to her rest , could not but admit with Tutsaugee , that his doctrines were hard to understand , and revolting to the common apprehension . 
But the tones of his voice and his look of purity and his life of sanctity , so well remembered , came in aid of her confidence , and unabating respect for him . 
The young gentlemen had spent as great a portion of it with Jessy , as William Weldon 's stern interpretation of propriety would allow . 
They had hunted , and angled , and walked , and conversed together , or in company with the Indians ; and upon every allowed pretext had walked with Jessy , accompanied by her mother , or Josepha , or their half breed female domestic . 
The distinctness of character , which belonged to each of the strangers , had begun to be apprehended by Jessy ; and , much as she was struck by the first appearance of Julius , she perhaps more strongly regretted the approaching separation from Frederic , who had scarcely said a civil thing to her ; while the other was continually seeking opportunities to pour into her ear extravagant compliments . 
An exchange of paintings and drawings between them and Jessy , took place ; and assurances , to which at the moment she paid little attention , that they intended , this should not be the last meeting . 
Josepha and Ellswatta were glad they were gone , it must be admitted ; for their son would once more be left with no rival in the views of Jessy ; and these formidable impediments to his hopes would once more be out of the way . 
It may not be disguised , that certain indefinite emotions , and those certainly not of satisfaction , arose in the bosom of Jessy , as she saw the fine forms of the young men gliding down the Sewasserna in their boats , and disappearing behind the wooded point . 
To crown all , there was the divine Jessy , a thing of another world -- an ethereal exhalation , an angel , an image of beauty , to which there was no likeness in heaven or earth or waters , or even the world of imagination . 
But there is sacrilege and murder in the thought , that Jessy should become the wife of a savage . 
I would be content , to spend my days in this valley , and hunt buffaloes and deer , and never speak with any person again , but an Indian , so that Jessy Weldon loved me , and would share my fortunes with me . 
Practise seduction with Jessy Weldon , and abandon her ! 
I will make love to Jessy on my principles . 
` One thing I forewarn you , Julius , if we are to act our parts in this affair in good temper , you must learn always to speak with respect of Jessy Weldon . 
But he is evidently playing the magnanimous in the eye of Jessy . 
We will kindly aid him with real torture , and accommodate him with the poisonous shirt of Hercules , and have the pleasure of seeing him writhe and struggle , and attempt to conceal his agony . 
Mark you , my chief motive , in consenting to this hopeful plan , is , to guard your intercourse with Jessy . 
Areskoui looked intently on the countenance of Jessy , to estimate how deeply her short acquaintance with them had graven their remembrance in her thoughts . 
Jessy thought something of the morality of their project , as Elder Wood had done ; but her heart was relieved , when she learned , that they were not drowned . 
Accustomed to the practice of self control , Areskoui determined , that Jessy should see him neither showing selfishness , nor wanting in magnanimity and forbearance in this decisive trial . 
Nelesho , comprehending the position of Areskoui , and anticipating the tortures of jealousy he would suffer , was decided , in expressing his wish to receive them . 
When in council it came the turn of Areskoui to speak , after his father , no one but Jessy could have divined from his thoughtful but composed visage , with what feelings he regarded the measure . 
In a few significant words he gave his assent to their request . 
The moment any step on their part , that had the slightest aspect of indecorum , or officiousness , or of such a character as would affect the reputation of Jessy in the most scrupulous circles in society , should be taken by them , they were but too well forewarned , that a final interdict would be put upon their intercourse . 
When he met Jessy by accident , there was something difficult to describe in his manner . 
Jessy interpreted it , and was infinitely more affected than she would have been either by entreaties or complaints . 
It did not diminish her pity , to learn , that he was often with Elder Wood ; and conversed much and seriously with him about the truths and mysteries of the Christian religion . 
Whoever had marked the countenance of Jessy , alternately pale and scarlet , would have perceived the tenor of her thoughts . 
Jessy and her mother exchanged words of gratified surprise , to perceive that the young men were wise , to divine the proper steps in their new line of march . 
Jessy ordered a harp from Canton . 
He played the harp admirably ; and in teaching it to Jessy , when he laid his own master hand upon the strings , he had a very marked advantage over his companion , who understood music but imperfectly , and only played the flute . 
Both painted , and Jessy was , as has been seen , an enthusiast in that pursuit . 
For variety , they taught Jessy to dance ; and oftentimes , while the Indians held their war or rejoicing dance by moonlight under the sycamores and pines of William Weldon 's grounds , did Josepha , Yensi , Jessy , the adopted guests , and Baptiste , join in joyous accompaniment under the shadow of the over-arching cliffs , making the ancient valley glad with these sounds and movements of interior and secluded joy . 
And , when the sun began to bend his broad disk behind the mountains , shedding a delicious coolness in his departure , not only Jessy , but her mother , and even William Weldon , from habit and the expected pleasure , turned their eyes in the direction of the cascade ; impatient , without avowing it , to see the elastic bound of the young men , as they cleared the pawpaw hedge , and walked up the alleys of multiflora roses . 
You are too much a libertine , in principles and conduct , to win the affections of such a girl as Jessy Weldon . 
The delighted surprize of Jessy , when she saw the magic erection , may be imagined . 
The heart of Jessy was in the plan . 
It need scarcely be added , that what Jessy wished , she so arranged , that her fond parents consented . 
Nor may it be presumed , that Jessy Weldon perceived herself alone with these two fine young men for the first time , without similar palpitations . 
Jessy threw down her pencil , in seeming embarrassment . 
` For my part , ' said Julius , throwing down an outline , evidently intended to be the form and countenance of Jessy , ` I find myself just as unable to class , and fill up my conceptions , as you do yours . 
So saying , he laid his hand on the harp , and swept its chords with his own appropriate inspiration , while Frederic accompanied the strain with his flute . 
When the piece closed , Jessy evinced by the rapt attention , which she had given to it , that she entered sufficiently into the music , if not the painting , of the afternoon . 
-- ` Indeed , ' she answered Julius , ` I am sorry for that . 
One day after another wore slowly away in the semblance of pursuit and employment , until the usual time when he was again with Jessy ; and then , although interdicted , equally by her explicit words , and by his own fears and humble estimates of his standing in her good opinion from any , but general conversation , he saw her , was satisfied , and respired happily in her presence . 
Jessy one day kindly inquired of him , why they saw him more seldom than formerly ? 
` Thou smilest , ' he replied , ` thou smilest , Wakona , on thy brother as formerly ; but do not I know , that thy heart is not in the smile ? 
While Julius , Frederic and Jessy , with her gay and unconscious attendant girl , as a duenna , had their long walks , in this secluded retreat , their interesting conversation , their concerts , and trial of skill at painting ; while the young gentlemen recited , or played duets on their flutes with her , Areskoui performed his warrior-duties , at one time planning employment and pursuit for the restless spirits of his own tribe , and at another counteracting in secrecy and silence the plottings and machinations of Nelesho . 
He dwelt in fancy upon the enjoyments of Jessy and her friends , and meditated within himself gloomy thoughts , and suffered so much the more bitterly the tortures of jealousy and hopeless love , as he said less , and struggled more to conceal his feelings . 
The unhappy young chief was precisely at that crisis of thought and of suffering , which would have caused him to pour his complaints to echo in song , had he been trained to books , and the cunning and clerkship of the white race . 
Such thoughts , as beseemed the relation , he did indeed commit to the faithful and untiring ear of his mother . 
They talked over his prospects and his despair together . 
While they held earnest conversation together , the young gentlemen , accompanied by Jessy and her attendant girl , were seen gaily directing their steps for the bower . 
Both Julius and Frederic had remarked , that Jessy and the young chief had shown strong marks of being impressed ; while Nelesho arose at the close of the discourse , when the customary permission had been given for any one to make remarks , or enter objections , against what had been said . 
` He was averse , ' he said , ` to these innovations . 
He wished to see no new religion . 
The Wakondah would look upon them in wrath , if the red men turned away from him to the God of the pale face . 
Jessy had finally fixed her abiding estimates of her daily companions . 
Nelesho , without any sanguine hopes , after the prize of the salmon fishery , had , according to prescribed custom , waited on the father of Jessy , and solicited her as designed for him by the Wakondah , in the success of that evening . 
Neither words nor deliberation were needed ; and he received from father and daughter an unqualified refusal . 
He again imprecated the evil influence of the ` little white men of the mountains , ' in half audible murmurs , and , as appeared in the sequel , henceforward transferred his claims to Julius . 
Jessy sometimes sighed , after an hour 's conversation with him , and wished , that the other , with his generous principles and elevated mind , had possessed something more of the amusing vivacity , and easy and flowing conversation of the former . 
At least , if Jessy continued to repair there , it was with no other companion , than her girl . 
I wish , I had a sister for him , as good and as beautiful as Jessy , that I might learn her to love this being , so nobly forbearing and magnanimous , so generous and elevated in motive and action ; and that he in turn might learn this simple , awkward , rustic Indian girl , against whom you have indulged in so much tirade , to love me . 
She had always been a selected favorite with Jessy . 
The rejected warrior , who afterwards took so much offence at the rejection of Jessy , went his way , and attributed his failure to his destiny , and spoke as kindly of Lenahah , as before . 
The Song Sparrow had been long a selected favorite of Jessy , who had completed for her a wedding dress , after the fashion of the whites . 
It was in vain , that Jessy kissed her burning cheeks , and implored her to keep up her courage , and try to get well . 
Elder Wood , his arm and his hat in crape , and Jessy in full mourning , walked behind the bier . 
The eyes of Yensi , of Jessy , and many an Indian maid , of Frederic , and many a stern warrior , filled at the thrilling impression . 
From the time that Jessy gave a decided rejection to the suit of Julius , he had preserved a distance almost amounting to an entire cessation of intercourse . 
An undefinable emotion of gladness swelled the heart of Jessy , as she once more felt a return of the full confidence and paternal affection of Ellswatta and Josepha . 
Areskoui visited William , as heretofore ; and Jessy received him , as in days gone by . 
asked Jessy , laughing through her blushes . 
` To call you his own ! 
` If you wait for that event , ' she replied gaily , ` we shall have the pleasure of your society for a long time to come . 
To this there was but one entrance , except from the sky , and that was by the orifice , through which Jessy had been compelled to enter . 
` You see , Jessy , ' he observed in a manner , that evidenced , he was struggling for calmness , ` I allow you the customary indulgence of a lover on the bridal day . 
Jessy answered , ` she did . ' 
Obeying the mysterious intimations , Jessy walked into the open prairie , and felt the cheering influences of the sun , banishing chill from her frame . 
Ten warriors , thoroughly armed with knives , pistols and yagers , together with Elder Wood , Areskoui , and Frederic , were descending the Sewasserna in a few hours after the abduction , and with a rapidity not inferior to that of those who bore Jessy away . 
Jessy also heard the cry from within ; and her acquaintance with Indian manners informed her , that attempted rescue was at hand . 
` I will follow the noble young chief to the death ; and if Jessy should be recovered by your counsels and daring , admit , that you are more worthy of her , than myself . ' 
` It is enough for me to say , ' replied Elder Wood , ` that I was born in Kentucky ; that I love Jessy , as a daughter ; that I shall never smile again , until we recover her ; and that I fear God , and have no other fear . ' 
Jessy was there , and her attitude was as of one imploring aid . 
said Jessy , ` it i worth all , I have suffered , this single moment of rescue . 
As soon as Jessy had recovered calmness to relate what was necessary for the elucidation of the earnest curiosity of the moment , she explained , in a few words the present posture of circumstances , and how it ha occurred . 
Jessy , completely exhausted with fatigue , watching , terror and endurance of every sort , required an hour 's repose . 
The sleeping wretch was dragged forth into the open air , to recover , and awaken at his leisure . 
A blessing being duly invoked by Elder Wood , they sat down to a repast , which hunger , joy and rapture , and the presence of the recovered Jessy , rendered delicious . 
Areskoui and Frederic and Elder Wood , in their blankets round a fire that blazed high and bright among the trees , kept watch at the tent door ; while Jessy , after having devoutly made her thanksgivings to her Almighty deliverer , laid her down to sleep . 
He , too , meanly implored mercy , and insisted , that he had entertained none , but honorable designs , in reference to Jessy . 
He was told , that the baseness of his falsehood would only tend to enhance the certainty and severity of his punishment ; and he remained as straightly bound , as the rest . 
The prisoners , with their arms pinioned closely behind them , were driven before their victors ; and Jessy , led by Elder Wood , followed them . 
Jessy requested the chief , that she might not be subjected to the persecution and agony of hearing his voice ; and his boat was ordered to advance beyond the rest , until they should be out of the reach of his entreaties . 
A sustained southern breeze wafted them steadily on , until the sun arose , and poured his cheering and glorious radiance upon the sublime spectacle , and rolled away the mists from his march over the mountains . 
` Yonder , ' said Jessy , ` are the Eagle peaks above my native dwelling . 
` And mine ; ' ` and mine , ' said Frederic and Areskoui ; ` and mine , ' added Jessy , with swimming eyes , ` but for a single deficiency . ' 
Do you not remember , Jessy , the passage which I marked for you ? 
On the summit of the last mountain to be crossed , far to the west was seen , at the same view , the sacred mountain of the ` little white men ; ' and to the east the smokes of the Shoshonee habitations , rising up in lines from their valley ; just as they showed on the day of Jessy 's abduction . 
I call on you , Frederic , and you , Jessy , to observe , and bear witness , that here , in the wild and visionary traditions of this poor , fuddling heathen , -LRB- this he spoke in his own speech -RRB- you have a clear and wonderfully distinct shadowing forth of the fall of man , and the history of the deluge . 
Jessy , inveloped in buffalo robes , laid down on a couch of leaves , and fatigue procured her a dreamless sleep . 
But , when at last the sun began to show his red and warm forehead above the summit cliffs of the opposite mountain , as the chaos of the deep and misty valley , and the dark glens , of the thousand caves , crags and declivities of the mountains were defined into distinct visibility , from the pervading brightness , what a spectacle ! 
It was the first time Jessy had ever seen such a sunrise . 
With what fervor the heart of Jessy rose to the Eternal Author of this sublime scene , as she reached forth her arms towards the natal spot , now more distinctly in view , and even the pines becoming visible . 
Areskoui was clearly the hero of it ; and as Elder Wood painted , in his own energetic phrase , the noble intrepidity of the chief , when , seeing Jessy in the vale of Manitouna , he determined to throw himself down the icy precipices a thousand feet , and excited the rest by his example , to dare the same self devotion , William Weldon could not restrain a new burst of parental affection ; but rose from his seat , strained the noble young chief in his arms , and declared that to him he owed the life and honor of his daughter . 
Jessy related her proportion of suffering , and those points of incident , which she alone was qualified to narrate . 
` Thou sayest right , Elder Wood , ' said Jessy . 
When the hymn was given out , with the sweet voice of Jessy , and with that of hundreds of sympathising Indians without -- and the sounds borne along through the mouths of the red men , though harsh and discordant , produced the solemn impression that never fails to result from many human voices joined . 
When the prayers and praises were concluded , ` allow me , ' said Jessy , ` before we separate , to return to each one of my deliverers thanks , since there is nothing , but words to repay . ' 
What a night was that to Julius , which followed the return of Jessy ! 
` The person in trial , ' he said , ` was young , handsome , rich , and had been rather favored , as he had heard , by Jessy . 
A message was despatched to Jessy ; and she came in her beauty , in a case as trying to one of her character , as could be imagined . 
` Pardon , Jessy , and let me live . 
Such were his words , while on his knees before her . 
Once more Jessy was seated to receive his humiliation , if he chose to make it . 
It was so signified to him . 
He indignantly spurned the offer . 
Jessy , warned by the dreadful disaster that had recently befallen her , went little abroad ; and never , except when accompanied by numbers , who were able to protect her . 
Sometimes it created painful respect , and sometimes it inspired smiles in Jessy , to remark the stately and somewhat stiff ceremonial of the young chief , in that intermediate stage , where his manners had lost the listless independent ease of his native deportment , without acquiring the graceful finish of civilized manners . 
In a moment of privacy , which occurred soon afterwards , Areskoui , in very guarded , but sufficiently intelligible language , announced the terms of this treaty to Jessy . 
` Wakona , ' he said , ` I hope , that thou wilt henceforward gladden my heart by that same smiling and unconstrained confidence , which thou wert wont to bestow upon me in the thrice happy , and never to be forgotten days of our infancy . 
The fingers of Jessy wandered over her harp . 
` Jessy , my daughter , ' said the good man , ` in society they would tell you , you sing like an angel . 
Jessy , you have made me think painfully of Kentucky . ' 
Sometimes the conversation was playful , and intermingled with stories by Ellswatta , of conflicts with the Blackfeet , the Spanish , grizzly bears and panthers , and gambols in the brine of the western sea , as he pursued sea lions and seals to their retreats beneath the billows . 
He recounted , and it made no mean romance , the story , how he won Josepha with his sword and his bow . 
The Spanish woman laughed heartily at his version , and occasionally commented , and showed fine eyes and teeth , and informed him , that Yensi would , perhaps , hear from her an entirely different account of the whole matter . 
Jessy , too , had for the ear of her mother and Elder Wood , relations still more interesting , than the hunting chronicle of the preceding day , as detailed by the two friends . 
There are sickness and sorrow every where ; and she had been , through the day , a ministering angel beside the sick and the sorrowful and the destitute in the humble Indian abodes of the nation . 
Her mother , without professing the religion of Elder Wood , felt these obligations , and encouraged these exertions on the part of her daughter . 
It was by such acts , long practised among the humblest of the nation , that Jessy had won the love and veneration of the people . 
But it was not for blessings , or humble applause , or to have the tale told , that Jessy went to the squalid abode , administered food and medicine , wiped the sweat of pain and agony from the face of the sick , and imparted counsel , consolation and hope to the dying . 
He had said to Jessy , to Frederic and himself , that he would be contented with the sisterly regard , the disinterested and common kindness of his sister , such as she could share in equal proportions between him and Frederic . 
Elder Wood knew not himself , that he wished Jessy might become the wife of the chief . 
But he was unconsciously swayed to that wish . 
His representations of Areskoui to her were always , more or less , colored by that wish . 
Unhappily , this purpose , latent to him , was clear to her ; and deeming it matter of design , it tended in a degree to counteract its own purpose , and induced her to regard his animated statements and his warm eulogy rather with distrust , than confidence . 
But however the conversation began , whatever turn it took , it always ended upon two points , whether there were unions in heaven , like those on earth ; and whether he thought , there was any chance , that Jessy would ever entertain for him sentiments beyond simple regard ? 
All these conflicts and solicitudes in the heart of Areskoui became matter of unconscious relation to Jessy in the conversations of Elder Wood . 
Often , too , had Jessy marked the sustaining wisdom of a wonder-working providence , as she saw , in the most cutting rigor of the snows and frosts , little sparrows of the brightest plumage , and with bodies scarcely larger than an acorn , hopping on the shrubs in front of her dwelling , chirping and active and alert , under a temperature which seemed by its bitterness to threaten all animal existence . 
During this walk , in which the parties visited successively all the favorite haunts of the former summer , the blue lake , Jessy 's bower , the deep dells , where the first breath of spring flushed the red bud , and the violet , and the crocus , and still heard the oriole , the thrasher and red bird , Ellswatta discussed the plans of the coming summer . 
Various elements may naturally be supposed to have influenced the mind of Jessy , and through her that of her mother , to follow the expedition . 
The litters were refitted by Josepha , Yensi and Jessy . 
When they spoke of the seeming frailty and inability to endure fatigue of the daughter and the mother , Jessy presaged , that she would show herself the worthy daughter of a storn-beaten mariner ; and that she would not be the first to shrink from danger , or complain of fatigue . 
A large and roomy periogue , fitted up within with buffalo and elk skins , and covered with an awning of scarlet cloth , surmounted with eagle and wakon feathers , emblems of chieftainship , received Josepha , Yensi , Jessy , and two waiting girls . 
While the two mothers conversed together , Jessy had her pencil and her drawing paper before her , as they steadily moved up the rippling stream , now marking the influence from the breeze , and the lights and shadows of the sun and the passing clouds upon the grass and the foliage ; or the new configurations of the serpentine line of mountains , that still converged the narrow valley of river , as they ascended ; or the fish seen beneath them , scared from their retreats by such an unwonted array ; or the venerable form of Ellswatta , or the noble figures of the young chief and his friend , the undistinguished mass of red men , keeping their course in silence , or the army of dogs and the driven herds of kine and horses , that followed the train . 
A reskoui and Frederic held each a hand to Jessy and the mothers , as they trod once more on the flower-fringed borders of the stream . 
After they had supped , and talked over the past , and sketched the probable future , by permission of Ellswatta and his family , who were their guests , the bible and psalm book were produced , and the evening was closed with hymns of praise to the God of Israel , in which the voice of the aged and the young chief , the Spanish and the Chinese mother , chimed in with the sweet notes of Jessy . 
Here was ample occasion for a tender and necessary species of useful courtesy , and not uncalled for gallantry , in aiding the mothers and Jessy up these steep and sometimes painful ascents . 
Nor did either Areskoui or Frederic complain of the lovely burden , as they lifted the sylphid form of the latter up eminences too high for her strength to mount ; and saw her face suffused with the flush of exertion , and heard the quick throbbings of her bosom . 
But still , the difficulty surmounted , she was the first to laugh at her own weakness ; and held out her hands to aid her mother and Josepha up the same ascent . 
` I feel , ' exclaimed Jessy , ` as if I had ascended to another sphere , and had already shaken off the grossness and the burden of mortality . ' 
This evening was marked by a circumstance of rare interest ; for Nelesho himself shared in the supper in Ellswatta 's tent , said kind things to Jessy , and congratulated the party upon this uncommonly easy and pleasant descent to the buffalo-plains . 
Indeed , as Yensi and Josepha and Jessy surveyed the hunt , could they have forgotten that it was purchased at the expense of life , it would have been a glorious sight even to them . 
So engrossing and entire was the interest of the hunt , even at the table of the chief , that Jessy , accustomed to see herself an absorbing object of attention , found , for a day or two , that there was no subject of conversation to come in competition with a buffalo hunt . 
` I admire , ' thought Jessy , as as she laid down for repose at night , ` if this is the civility , that favored lovers would show to their mistresses . ' 
Nor did she fail at breakfast to ask him , if he had dreamed through the night of his dear friends , the buffaloes . 
` Let them hunt , ' thought Jessy . 
Areskoui kindly chided Jessy for the paleness of apprehension on her cheek . 
-- ` Wakona , ' he said firmly and calmly , ` we can beat the Black-feet at any time , and under any circumstances . 
It was to no purpose , that she told him , ` that the death of her father and friends would be poorly compensated by the empty laurels of victory , which would wither at the end of the song of war and triumph , while the friends would never return . ' 
The expedition had breakfasted next morning , before sun rise ; and tears , that could not be repressed , rushed alike to the eye of Yensi and Jessy , as they saw William Weldon girt with pistols , hatchet , yager and dirk , and the venerable figure of Elder Wood equally caparisoned in a style seemingly so little befitting his peaceful vocation ; and all the Kentuckian evidently stirring in his blood . 
` Give me , ' said Frederic , in an under tone to Jessy , ` give me a little ringlet , as an amulet , to wear next my bosom . ' 
Though he requested sportively , and she answered , as if the request were jest , there was that in his eye , when he made it , that went to her heart ; and full gladly would she have given the young warrior , clad in weapons to the teeth , and going forth to the fierce encounter with such terrible enemies , the fairest curl that wantoned on her neck . 
Ellswatta 's eyes flashed once more the fire of youth ; and Jessy felt a natural , deep and feminine respect for the young chief , as she saw the fearless countenance , the noble port and excited eye of the warrior spirit going to do battle for his parents and his nation . 
` Welcome back a thousand times , ' cried the guests of Ellswatta 's tent , and for this time Jessy hesitated not to hold out to him her hand . 
Jessy held her hand to her , and asked her to come , and sit by her . 
` Poor thing , said Jessy ; ` her heart is full , as well it may be , and she clearly takes more to you , Frederic , than to me . ' 
Frederic assured her , ` that she should be his little sister , and that , in committing her to Jessy , and her parents , he only put her into the hands of those , who could take a thousand times better care of her , than he could ; ' and , he added , to Jessy , ` you will soon teach her , what you so easily succeed in learning every one , to love you . ' 
` We certainly ought to be happy this evening , ' said Jessy , as the wonted circle once more assembled round the tea and coffee at Ellswatta 's table . 
It was not until midnight , that Elder Wood reminded them of the lateness of the hour ; and opened his bible and psalm book , and sang the hymn ` Thou shepherd of Israel and mine , ' accompanied by the sweet note of Jessy , the flute of Frederic , and the deep tones of Ellswatta 's and Areskoui 's voice . 
The terrible spectacle was of course unwitnessed by Yensi and Jessy . 
It was associations with these horrid traits in Indian character , which , unconsciously , always mixed with Jessy 's thoughts of Areskoui , that had caused revulsion at the idea of a more intimate union with him . 
Some days after the event , Frederic presented Jessy a measured version of the scene , as she casually adverted to the subject . 
It was delightful to Jessy , for the first few hours , to move over a dead level , green and flowering prairie . 
In this terrible emergency , which was not the less so , for falling upon them in the hour of recent mirth and triumph , and in which perfect equality of suffering was imposed in common upon the brutes , and every individual of the expedition indiscriminately , Jessy found alleviation for the distress of her own thirst , in witnessing the docility and uncomplaining patience of her recent acquisition , Katrina . 
Besides , in many other hearts , beside Jessy 's , arose the dear associations , that excite the desire of home -- of a country , identified with all that charms in the morning of life , so sheltered , so delightful , so cherished , in comparison of these unsheltered and illimitable prairies , mocking the eye with a level carpet of grass and flowers , without wood or water ; and tempting the traveller , for a straighter direction , to plunge into sandy deserts of scorching aridity , where myriads might perish , and no accident again throw a wandering traveller upon the discovery of their bones . 
` It is too full of terror , ' said Jessy , as she made her way between her father and Elder Wood . 
The young chief and Frederic , as in the outward traverse sought , it may be presumed , rather than avoided occasions to aid Jessy when wearied and exhausted ; and the mothers , by gay chiding , reminded the young men that the same offices were equally due to them , though neither young nor beautiful . 
The wild chorus cheowanna , haw-haw-hum , as it swelled and died away among the mountains , intonated with such tender and natural sentiments , sounded pleasantly even in the ear of Jessy . 
` How charming , ' cried Jessy , embracing her mother , ` to return once more to the natal spot . ' 
How glad was the heart of Jessy , when all this noisy ceremonial was finished ; and when the course of former things was quietly resumed in this valley . 
In the presence and training of Katrina , Jessy found a new source of amusement and satisfaction , of a high and even generous kind . 
Yensi and Jessy clothed her gracefully in the European fashion . 
In a short period of training , she began to emerge not only graceful , in native elegance of form and movement , but Yensi and Josepha pronounced her beautiful ; while , to the heart of Jessy , the forming , and training this interesting girl , not only opened a new employment , yielding self complacency in the exercise , but the circumstances , under which she was acquired , and , unconsciously , the person , from whom she was acquired , rendered her dear as a child , or a sister . 
` Certainly , ' replied Jessy , ` you are neither of you persons , to speak slightly of the pleasure of doing our duty . 
Areskoui , too , no longer excited by the arousing anticipations of a command and an expedition , no longer meeting Jessy , except in the regulated intercourse of ceremony , and then always seeing her with one , in whose esteem , he was fearful , she must continually have an increasing interest , again became sad . 
His vivacity vanished . 
His father and mother again alternately pitied , chided , and encouraged him ; and his growing and marked dejection once more awakened the painful sympathy and fears of Jessy . 
On the other hand , Frederic had his jealousies , his persuasions , that the eye of Jessy was averted from him , and turned with favor upon the young chief . 
Last of all , here are you , Frederic , whom I had begun to love , as a son , jealous of the noble young chief , himself the victim of love and despair ; and speaking with temper of Jessy Weldon , of whom it is only common justice to say , that closely as I have watched her , intently as I have studied her , I have never detected in her a censurable word or action , or , apparently , an improper thought . 
If Jessy Weldon could love any one , it would be you ; and this ought to satisfy you . 
-- This episode is given , as it was written in verse by Frederic , who witnessed the impressive spectacle ; and on their subsequent voyage together , showed his version to Jessy . 
Jessy would have pronounced it the happiest winter that had yet passed over her head , but for the increasing gloom of the young chief , and a dejection , amounting at times to visible illness , which manifestly preyed scarcely less deeply on the bosoms of his parents . 
In the docile and charming Katrina she had found not only a pupil who met all her instructions , but a companion , who loved her with all the affection of a sister , and reverenced , and listened to her , as a superior being , with unlimited respect and devotedness . 
` For the first , Katrina , ' replied Jessy , smiling , ` it is a defect , of which you are curing every day ; and I much mistake , if the heart of my Katrina says , that she is too young . 
-- Sometimes the chief seemed to be conscious of the wishes of Jessy , as she played with the glossy curls of her protege ; for he impatiently arose , and left her , murmuring to himself , as he went , ` it is cruel in Wakona , not only to shut her own heart against me , but to attempt to engage that worn heart for another . ' 
The sweet Spring came once more from the south sea , renewing the deep music of the unchained mountain torrents , ` Leaving her robe on the trees and her breath on the gale ; ` and Jessy , as she once more saw nature in verdure and blossoms , felt the delicious reverie of the season , as she respired the balmy air , and heard the croaking of the numberless dwellers in the water ; and the more cheerful songs of the tenants of the air , the plains and forests . 
The grey of evening twilight had come ; and William and Yensi , Frederic , Jessy and Katrina had just sat down to their evening tea . 
` Jessy and Katrina , I bid you go into the other room , and fasten the bolt . ' 
Nelesho poured a quantity into a pitcher , and insisted , that Jessy should pledge him . 
` Drink to me , Wakona , ' he said , ` after the fashion of the pale face . ' 
As she shrunk back in faintness , he grasped her flowing curls . 
` Remember , ' said he , ` the salmon fishery , and my curse ! ' 
At the same time he began to drag her towards the door . 
-- ` Nelesho , ' shrieked Jessy , ` spare my parents ; and do with me what thou wilt ! 
` Dear William , ' she said , ` rescue Jessy . ' 
Frederic had arisen amidst the confusion , had borne Jessy through the struggling crowd , that had fortunately extinguished the lights , and had extricated her from the mass , and had borne her out of the door . 
Frederic was chafing the temples of Jessy , whose face , cold as marble , and fair hair were all covered with blood , and who , in insensibility , had lost for a moment the consciousness of all the horrors about her . 
As Frederic continued solely engrossed with the effort to recover Jessy from her faintness , he could only explain , as far as he understood it , the horrible deed that had been perpetrated within . 
` That , ' cried Frederic , as he turned his eyes for a moment from the still insensible Jessy , ` that is the work of the accursed Nelesho . ' 
As he said it , the fierce young savage , in his gigantic dimensions and foaming with rage , rushed towards Areskoui . 
After long efforts , Jessy was restored to consciousness , only to learn by degrees the full extent of her misery . 
The venerable man arose , and folded her in his arms ; and repeated in an often interrupted voice , ` thou art my child , Jessy . 
He was the favorite of the Shoshonee ; and Jessy was their pride and their idol . 
A more ample congregation of Shoshonee had been as-sembled on no occasion ; nor could a more interesting object any where be seen , than Jessy robed in black , as she sat on the rustic bench , beside the bodies . 
For the two or three succeeding days , Jessy remained in a situation of passive and gloomy repose ; as one who had been bewildered by an overwhelming calamity , and retaining but an indistinct consciousness of what had happened . 
Jessy answered , only by raising to him eyes swimming in tears . 
As if in reply to the appeal , he continued , ` but I see no future security for you in this place . 
I confess , I feel , as if propriety called for your return to society ; unless , indeed ' -- ` That is out of the question , ' she answered , ` even to be a matter of a moment 's thought at this time . 
I must leave the Shoshonee , leave ' -- and she burst into tears , and could not proceed . 
` Jessy , ' he answered , ` you are right -- I am rejoiced to see , that the power to form right resolutions still remains to you . ' 
` My duty , ' she replied , ` remains , though they are gone . ' 
Areskoui had sufficient combination of thought , and forecast of the ways of thinking , and being influenced among the whites , not to have foreseen , that this would be the probable issue of the position in which Jessy was placed . 
The arrangements of Jessy were not long in completing . 
Nor could Jessy refrain from adverting to a new proof of the wise and reflecting love of her father , little as he seemed to think of money himself , in his having made such ample provision for her on that head . 
The original sum , deposited with ` Swarts & Co. ' at Canton , with the annual addition of the interest to the principal from the birth of Jessy , had swelled the amount to a fortune , that abundantly met all her necessities and wishes on that score . 
But when he saw , that Jessy considered such jealousies of independent feeling , as originating in reluctance to assume a parental charge and responsibility in relation to her , he forebore . 
` I know , ' he said , ` that there is enough for us both . 
When the time of Jessy 's departure drew near , his original purpose , to accompany her to Manitouna , or Astoria , and then return , failed him . 
He gave fearful demonstrations , that he had thoughts of forever leaving his parents , his hereditary expectations , his tribe , his country , and of following the steps of Jessy . 
This determination , as might be expected , excited horror in his parents . 
Ellswatta lost his wonted firmness , and scattered his aged locks to the winds . 
` This , then , ' said he , ` is the way in which the Wahcondah punishes us , for holding out a fatherly hand to these pale faces . 
He told me , that intercourse with them would cause the hearts of our warriors to become soft , and melt away ; that our children would cease to be strong red men , without gaining the character of the whites . 
Jessy was aroused from the torpor of her own grief , by hearing of these agonizing conflicts in the family of the chief . 
Josepha left the embrace of her son for that of the still loved Jessy . 
The clear and disciplined mind of Jessy , immediately manifested the ascendency of its powers . 
` Thy mother , Jessy , ' she said , ` gives thee at parting the emblem of a Christian ; beseeching thee to wear it in remembrance of thy mother 's friend , and the mother of my unhappy Areskoui . ' 
Ellswatta turned away from his son and Jessy . 
The young warriors moved onwards , in ascending the hill ; and Jessy , unwilling to trust her eyes , or look back , heard the wail of returning Indians , as the horse , upon which she rode , in the midst of the long procession , began to scramble up the sides of the mountain . 
Although Jessy did not appear much to heed her wild snatches of poetry and song ; yet fearful , that some impressions , tending to strengthen her gloom , might fasten on her mind , they hurried her away . 
During this descent , the mind of Jessy was more than once occupied , and her melancholy thoughts for a moment fixed by the sublimity of the grand scenery about her . 
We will take care of the graves ; ' and as they uttered this last affecting promise , these kind hearted red men of the desert turned , and left them ; suggesting to Jessy the obvious reflection , that these successive partings from their friends , and their diminishing number , was like the incidents of the journey of life ; where the commencing guests of the journey are continually deserting the traveller , leaving him to finish the course alone , which was commenced in the society of multitudes . 
The noble and majestic stream , its banks skirted with boundless prairies , opened a spectacle equally new and exciting to Jessy . 
At length , from an elevation on the shore , on which they stopped , the blue sea , stretching away in its boundlessness , was visible for the first time to Jessy . 
Shortly afterwards the little town of Astoria was in view ; and though offering externally little more of show , than a collection of Indian cabins , and presenting precisely the appearance of the primitive beginnings of a new settlement in the forest , as being the first town built , and inhabited by whites , that Jessy had seen , it offered her a spectacle of intense interest . 
Elder Wood , Frederic and Jessy were equally known by report ; and , as generally happens , a thousand additions of imagination , and an exaggerating spirit of curiosity were appended to the gossip story of her beauty , wealth , abduction , and future intended course . 
Elder Wood immediately took lodgings for Jessy , Frederic and himself , in the best house , which the town afforded ; and as it was unusually crowded and busy , proper apartments were found difficult to obtain . 
` There they fly , ' remarked Jessy , ` towards the sweet retreats we have left . 
Although they had but an hour before discussed the possibility , that their enemies might be there , and had mutually promised not to separate from each other , although the paleness of death had marked the cheek of Jessy , as the bare possibility of coming once more in the power of Julius had been hinted at , so full were the hearts and thoughts of each one of the party of the arrangements and separations at hand , that not an apprehension of danger crossed the mind of either , as Jessy and Katrina moved back towards their lodgings ; and as the rest of the party were rowed on board the ship , promising to rejoin them in a short time . 
According to their promise , in a few minutes Elder Wood , Frederic , and Areskoui , with the Shoshonee , were on the return , remarking with some surprize , that Jessy and Katrina were already out of sight . 
Areskoui on this occasion forgot all the stoicism and endurance , which he could sometimes command . 
In transports of fury and despair he scattered his black locks to the winds , and was with difficulty restrained from throwing himself in the river . 
Would God I had died for thee , my daughter Jessy . ' 
Jessy and Katrina had been watched . 
He had foreseen , that a natural result of this would be , that Jessy would leave the country by way of Astoria . 
Spider-like , he had here woven his accursed web , and waited for his prey . 
In the moment of unsuspicious and unguarded confidence , the protectors of the orphan girls had left them , and Jessy was once more in the power of Julius . 
` The Wahcondah hath struck us again , ' he said ; ` but Jessy yet lives . 
In any case , while she lives , and is in his bad power , we will not sit down , and wail like women . 
But the noble maxim of the three friends was never to despair ; and Areskoui , with the feeling congenial to his race , aroused to its utmost point of excitement , declared , that vengeance alone ought to push them to the expedition , even if the recovery of Jessy and Katrina were hopeless . 
All feelings of anger , on account of the voluntary departure of Jessy from among them , were merged in the strong impulses of revenge , and a returning remembrance of their former affection for her . 
Meanwhile the order of these annals requires , that we should return to consider the causes and the mode of this second abduction of Jessy ; and the events , that befel the unhappy prisoners , up to the time of the arrival of the Shoshonee opposite Ostroklotz . 
He swore an oath on his soul , that rather than fail in his determination to obtain possession of Jessy Weldon , he would endure every pain and privation , even were it the annihilation of his soul . 
It need not be said , that the co-operation of Nelesho was certain , from similarity of character , from hatred towards Areskoui , and meditated lust and revenge in reference to Jessy . 
It was intended , that Jessy and Katrina should have been brought down in the first instance to Astoria , to have remained in the power of Julius and his friends , as long as they should minister to their guilty passions ; and when they had kept them to satiety , they were to be transferred to Nelesho , who was to join the Black-feet with all his adherents , in a league of exterminating hostility towards the Shoshonee . 
They anticipated , as a natural consequence of what had happened , that Jessy and the Kentucky minister would leave the country by the route of Astoria . 
The pretext for carrying off Jessy was to be , that she was a distant connexion of Julius , who had misbehaved , and eloped from Macoa to Astoria , and thence to the Shoshonee with Frederic ; that he had been there in pursuit of her , and had now found her , and was reclaiming her , in virtue of a charge to that effect from her friends . 
Jessy comprehended in a moment , that wailing , and struggle with their destiny , and frantic grief , would be alike unavailing to mitigate their disaster . 
The fortitude of despair , and the indignant energy of a strong mind , slowly returning to a full consciousness of the new outrage practised upon her , began to supply Jessy with thoughts and words . 
But the soothing persuasions of Jessy calmed her . 
As he said this , he sat his tray on a little circular table , manifestly disconcerted at the contemptuous silence , which Jessy maintained towards him . 
A slight suffusion colored his sallow and impudent face , as he stood bowing to persons , who deigned not the slightest mark of recognition in reply . 
After a few moments of awkward hesitation , he retired , muttering ` sacre bleu!You are dem forouche et hautaine pour le present . 
During this tedious harangue , Jessy had leisure to take a general survey of him , on whom , apparently , her destiny depended . 
His appearance was not destitute of nobleness . 
In society he would have been called handsome ; and she remarked with a gleam of joy , that traces of feeling and humanity were not wholly obliterated from his countenance . 
Alternations of suffusion and paleness passed over it , indicating , that shame , in the consciousness of his outrages and base purposes , had not been entirely overcome . 
Perhaps he might be inspired with relentings . 
Perhaps his feelings might be enlisted , to protect them from the ultimate purposes of Julius . 
retorted Jessy . 
` By the authority , ' he rejoined , ` which a natural guardian , an authorized relative has over a recreant fugitive , bringing disgrace upon herself and her friends . 
The intelligence fell upon Jessy 's mind , as light from heaven . 
She hailed it , as an omen , that He , who had so wonderfully interposed for her deliverance before , would not forsake her now , in this her utmost need . 
` It is enough , ' said Jessy . 
Whatever discouragement was in the heart of Jessy , she felt that the emergency demanded a different spirit . 
` It is a token for good , ' exclaimed Jessy , folding her hands ; ` heaven be praised for this ! ' 
But , encouraged , by having obtained a single word of reply , he continued to publish his budget of news , from which Jessy learned , that the wretch was in fact seriously ill in his birth , feeling , that the hand of God was upon him , and his mind alternating between the coward terrors of conscience , and blaspheming rage , in being thus a second time precluded the indulgence of his projects and desires . 
Each claimed Jessy , and each was pertinacious . 
In the extremity of his mental horror , Julius despatched Baptiste to implore Jessy to visit him , and receive his confession of his purposes and his penitence . 
Jessy deigned not to notice the request even by a change of countenance . 
In case of his death , he intended to bequeath all his hereditary estate , and the blessing and protection of his parents , to Jessy . ' 
One cheering point of view presented itself , from which Jessy failed not to derive strength and support . 
But she could not but regard the singular coincidence of the sickness of Julius , and the abominable question of claims between the two officers , as providential arrangements , a wonderful neutralizing of one element by another , in virtue of which they had been hitherto left unmolested and to themselves . 
How the heart of Jessy throbbed , as she could now and then distinguish a conversation carried on in English by an interpreter . 
` Suppose , ' said Jessy to Katrina , suddenly seizing the thought , ` we should cry for help , and throw ourselves on the protection of these people . 
He caught the shrieking girl in his arms , brought her back to her narrow prison , and set her down beside Jessy with a curse , affirming , that if she was found moving from her place again , it would be on the penalty of being thrown overboard . 
` Desist , monster , ' cried Jessy , her face glowing with indignation . 
lady , ' he replied , with a tone of irony and sneering , ` yonder is your delightful home . 
Seeing that force was at hand , and that opposition would be unavailing , Jessy said , with an upward look , ` my dear Katrina , let us go without being compelled , and as lambs to the slaughter . 
` It is a beautiful spot , ' said Jessy , with an encouraging look to Katrina . 
Overcame by terror , fatigue , and emotion , the whole scene swam for a moment before the eyes of Jessy , and she sank in unconsciousness . 
` Dear Jessy , ' she exclaimed , ` I entreat you not to die just now , and leave me alone in this dreadful place . ' 
-- ` Thanks for your infinite condescension , ' replied Jessy , summoning spirit to sustain her , and striving to disguise her palpitation and terror . 
Jessy immediately arose , and indignantly refusing her aid , begged her to lead the way . 
` You , ' she said to Jessy , ` will occupy this apartment ; ' ` and you , ' to Katrina , ` that , ' pointing to one , a considerable distance onward in the entry . 
Katrina embraced Jessy . 
` We two , however , ' rejoined Jessy , ` will occupy the same or none . ' 
` We will not , ' replied Jessy , ` nor to any other , except together . ' 
He nodded to the lieutenant , and , as if ashamed of what was to ensue , returned to the hall . 
But Katrina held convulsively to Jessy , in a grasp which yielded not even to their force ; and the abode was in the meantime filled with shrieks of such agony , as appalled even the callous and abandoned inmates of the place . 
The captives continued their search , and when finished , Jessy replied , ` you will perceive , that your presence is no longer desired . ' 
To all this Jessy would sometimes say , ` were you not a happier man , Baptiste , when you were honest and industrious among the Shoshonee ? ' 
The regular roll of the drum , and noise of arms and shouts of the bacchanalian inmates in their orgies , became familiar sounds to the ears of Jessy and Katrina ; and they were the rather indulged in their wish to be to themselves , as regarded male visitants , inasmuch as it gratified Julius , who was now daily convalescing ; and as solitude had been found by former experience the most effectual mean of bringing over the victims to the purposes of their seducers . 
He could be even heard urging his natural and bargained claims upon Jessy . 
The captain insisted upon Jessy . 
The beauty and innocence of Jessy , and the long and singular disappointment of his purposes , in relation to a victim so completely in his power , added fuel to his internal fires . 
As soon as he was in perfect health , he was immediately seen assuming that ascendency among the master spirits of the castle , that superior always exercises over inferior intellect . 
It was soon discovered , that his will was the ruling star of this establishment . 
His claims upon Jessy were formally acknowledged , with an understanding , that after a certain time , he should resign in favor of the captain . 
The two rivals drew lots for Katrina , and she fell to the share of the lieutenant . 
The orphans were alone , and the direct and earnest appeal of Jessy on her knees was to the Strength of Israel . 
Brought up in view of frequent marriages , effected by Indian violence , that had afterwards proved as happy as others , she could not view , what their persecutors affected to call marriage , in the same horrible light with Jessy . 
High resolve and unshaken purpose , of an aspect in her glowing countenance , which could neither be assumed , nor mistaken , reassured the confidence of Jessy . 
He then offered his arm to Jessy , and begged her to follow him , a ceremony which Davidow repeated to Katrina . 
Jessy fell on her knees before him , crying , ` Julius , you can not intend to separate us from each other . 
Katrina seemed inspired with a frenzy of heroic enthusiasm , as she heard the imploring words of Jessy , in tones , which might have softened a tiger . 
But Davidow seized her rudely , and tore her from the grasp of Jessy . 
Jessy made less resistance , for her physical strength was more exhausted . 
Jessy and Katrina were pressed to his bosom , while paternal tears streamed down his venerable cheeks . 
` It is enough , ' he said . 
The rescue party took up their line of march for the shore , Areskoui at the head of his warriors , and Elder Wood leading Jessy , and Frederic Katrina . 
Jessy was resting on the arm of her beloved protector , and Frederic was sitting beside Katrina . 
Jessy and Katrina were mounted upon the surest and easiest horses . 
Even Jessy , in the joy of recent deliverance , and the transition from terror and outrage to security and friendship , was as cheerful as returning remembrances , associated with her native valley , would allow . 
Her raven curls hung in her neck in their former luxuriance ; and whilst gaiety , delight , and feelings kindled from the sun beamed on her cheek and in her eye , she affirmed , that all , that was requisite to render her the happiest being in the world , was to see every trace of gloom removed from the countenance of Jessy ; while she , aware how many more of the circle felt this want , as the only draw-back to their hilarity , suppressed her deep remembrances , as she might , and made an effort to seem as happy as the rest . 
With her quick and instinctive sense of propriety , Jessy made such acknowledgments , and expressed such gratitude to the Pole , as the case called for ; and as might be rendered , without trenching upon self-respect . 
The chief passed them at the head of his warriors , his countenance rendered more interesting by the sallow and pale cast of fixed melancholy worn into it by habit , and contrasted by the intense brilliance of his eye , kindled by recent triumph , and the consciousness , that Jessy was once more with him in the care of her friends . 
In passing , he paused , and enquired with considerate kindness , ` if the march could be rendered less fatiguing to them , by change of horses , or any of the circumstances , under which they journeyed ? ' 
-- ` Sister of my soul , ' said Katrina , in a low voice , as he passed beyond hearing -- ` what a chief is this ! 
Jessy sighed with the sad presentiment , that she had succeeded but too effectually , in inspiring her young bosom with love ; and her mind immediately began to ruminate the ways and means of undoing the web , which she had so recently woven . 
It tended not to mitigate the anguish of his dark thoughts , to see the affectionate courtesies of Frederic and Areskoui to Jessy , and the smile of gratitude , with which they were received . 
Every redoubled effort to soothe , and cheer her on their part , carried a new pang to his heart . 
Her murdered parents sometimes come over his mind , like a dark cloud . 
He felt within himself the strange enigma of the tormenting fury of his base appetites still unmitigated , and unsatisfied . 
` There they go , ' he reflected , ` loving and happy as angels ; and what am I , and what soon to be ! ' 
Dark and interminable views of the dreadful future would then scorch his brain , as though it were pierced with a stream of lightning . 
Hopes of rescue or escape alike relinquished , his last reliance was a new appeal to the shrinking tenderness of Jessy . 
Horror thrilled from his heart to his remotest nerves , as he remembered the position , in which the weapon of Frederic had felled him , and the improbability , that Elder Wood and Frederic , and much less the Indians , would relax from their firmness , even if Jessy should ask his release . 
Whenever he contemplated the chances of his trial , the clammy sweat of death instantly started on his forehead . 
A stronger image of the tortures of the damned could no where be imagined , than in his case . 
The Indians , who passed him , deigned no reply to his questions , and looked at him as a thing that no longer had a sensitive existence . 
A hundred messages had been requested by him to Elder Wood . 
Areskoui , Frederic , Jessy , and even the more influential of the warriors . 
When his thoughts wandered , as they sometimes would , during his long and silent marches , from the horrible reality of the present to the dreamy remembrances of the past , there rose his magnificent home , in its oriental splendor and voluptuousness . 
There were the soothings , the indulgent fondness , the unlimited homage from numerous dependents , of his early years . 
There were his long revelries and the blandishments of riches , art , and the unlimited scope of his passions in the bowers of pleasure in Europe . 
He remembered the fawning obsequiousness of the victims , he had betrayed . 
He remembered in how many circles of the fair , titled , and distinguished , he had seen mothers stealthily pointing him out to their daughters ; and he comprehended by the interpretation of vanity , the flattering portraits of these experienced instructers , as they described his wealth and amiability and beauty to their daughters . 
What was he now ? 
The twice outraged , and rescued object of his guilty passions , passed in her loveliness , every day in his sight , and the vision of her beauty not rendered less interesting by the unalterable sadness of mourning occasioned by assassination of his procuring , and conscious that the fact must now be known to her . 
Yet , on her relenting , all his hopes of mercy must rest . 
He had often striven to call up the hardihood necessary to suicide . 
When riding , as he had often done , on this long march , on the verge of precipices , whence a single plunge of his horse would have dashed him in pieces on the rugged rocks below , he had looked fearfully , and wistfully down the dizzy depths , and attempted to imagine the momentary mortal agony of the quiver and recoil , which would precede , what he hoped would be the extinction of his being . 
His head whirled , and he became faint at the thought . 
Then he meditated the death , which he could procure from his guards , by attempting to escape ; and his coward heart shrunk at the imagination of feeling the cold hatchet 's edge in his cleft brain . 
Such were his mental soliloquies . 
Once he thought he might strangle himself in such a way , as not to feel himself die . 
He seized his throat with his right hand , and held fast , till his effeminate dread of pain convinced him , that he could no way beguile himself out of life , without feeling the transit . 
Not unfrequently , the most torturing thought of all was , the fast snatch of his broken slumbers , when a disturbed dream presented Jessy once more struggling in his arms . 
The contrast of his waking consciousness was a darkness of the soul , like that of Egypt , to be felt . 
Areskoui informed his guests , as they halted on the opposite side of the stream , that he had promised his warriors to remain there for the maize festival ; and that he should repose his horses and the expedition by a rest of three days . 
Jessy and Katrina had already decked their little abode with evergreens and fragrant flowers ; and had sauntered with Frederic on the banks of this desert stream , unknown to song , sketching the outlines of the landscape , as they paused , to survey the lonely grandeur of the scenery about them more attentively . 
` Are they intending to sacrifice that man with the name not to be uttered , ' asked Jessy , as paleness crossed the transient crimson of her cheek . 
were it not better , that we entreat his life once more ? ' 
` Let us away , ' cried Jessy , ` before the sound shall be so in my ears , as that it can never be blotted from memory . ' 
The temple of nature , as Jessy named it , although at a distance it had the semblance of being scarcely separated from the mountain , when reached , measured a distance of at least fifty paces from it . 
One of those conversations ensued , which are chiefly interesting in the ear of the young , and which brought smiles even on the sad countenance of Jessy . 
` You would almost make me curious to hear the name of the Eve , who would share your Eden , ' said Jessy . 
` That name , ' he answered , ` must rest ever unrevealed . ' 
` And I , ' said Jessy , ` have taken a method more consonant to our gross material structure , to preserve the vivid remembrance of this scene . 
Pentanona entered the tent , bearing , as he said , two letters , one to Elder Wood , the other to Jessy . 
let Jessy pity me . 
Elder Wood , come , and pray with , and for The other paper , addressed to Elder Wood , was a full and accurately drawn will , conveying his whole inheritance , in the amplest form , to Jessy , or her assigns , as some inadequate reparation for insults intended , or inflicted . 
Annexed to it was a line to his parents , confessing his repeated outrages to Jessy , and begging them to regard her , as their child in his place , and assuring them , that his only consolation in death was the firm persuasion , that they would regard that , as the last will and testament of their dying son . 
The whole was enclosed in an unsealed envelope , and it had evidently been prepared , as a last expedient , with a view to soften the heart of Jessy . 
Katrina supported Jessy , bathing her temples , and holding her volatiles . 
Pentanona , the while , calmly smoked his calumet , appearing not to notice the successive changes of their countenances . 
When the reading was finished , he stood up , and said , ` I am charged to inform you , that the bad pale face , who made these medicine marks , has gone to the land of souls . 
` Sister of my heart , ' said Katrina to Jessy , as their horses ambled side by side , ` how could you look so coldly on the chief , as he entered our tent this morning ? 
Jessy and Katrina were , in some passes of peculiar difficulty , physically exhausted beyond the possibility of further exertion . 
It would have furnished a subject for the pencil , to see the son of Ellswatta bearing one of these fair girls , as incapable of further exertions as an infant , from rock to rock , and from cliff to cliff ; and depositing her on a level spot , and returning for the other . 
Areskoui no longer had the pleasure of leaping down the mountains , carrying Jessy in his arms , as the mother bears her infant . 
Jessy and Elder Wood were speedily settled in the house , built under other auspices , and for the Song Sparrow . 
Elder Wood preached , and Jessy painted , and Frederic played his flute , and Areskoui governed , as those , who only performed the offices mechanically , and took little interest , in what they did . 
The first return of intelligence from Astoria informed them , that the pecuniary and other resources of Jessy , left at her lodgings , when she was carried into captivity , were still in the custody of their host , and disposable at her order . 
A feeling of shame aroused Jessy from the indolence and apathy of grief , as she saw all else beginning to be interested , and occupied as formerly . 
But , while Josepha and Ellswatta sat on the sod seats , enjoying the cool of sunset , two figures were so conspicuously wanting , that tears unconsciously fell from the eyes of Jessy , while she was even speaking the accents of gladness . 
But while the man of God in his respectable employment was engaged and happy , while the nation had returned to its pristine quietness , while new trappers from the shores of the sea and the sources of the Missouri were occupying the vacant cabins of the Shienne , while Katrina , joyous , buoyant , and in the freshness of youth and health , was developing a beautiful form , and new personal charms , so gay and happy herself , as hardly to be capable of conceiving that care and gloom could exist about her , Frederic , Jessy and Areskoui were , each in their own way , proofs of the old adage , that men may change their sky and condition , without changing their minds . 
But in situations of extreme peril , in the long and trying expedition , in the fury of the fray at Ostroklotz , when bearing Jessy in his arms over the mountains and precipices , in the distractions of a long journey , one sentiment neutralized another . 
Now , that events had resumed their accustomed course , that the valley was in repose , that a ray of cheerfulness played once more upon the pale cheek of Jessy , the one , single , absorbing sentiment of his heart began to resume its terrible empire there , as hectic fixes its surest influences , where every thing external gives the strongest promise of health and life . 
His parents remarked , and all that felt sufficient interest in him , to note his habits , observed , that he no longer cared for his wonted enjoyments . 
Sometimes he rose from his food , apparently unconscious , that it had been spread before him . 
He was absent , dreaming and abstracted . 
He returned vague and wrong answers to the questions of his parents . 
Even , when in council , or command among his Shoshonee , he was inactive and spiritless ; and required , that his proper course should be dictated to him by another . 
Her beauty might not be said to be intellectual in its associations , and of the deep and enchaining moral interest of Jessy 's . 
Such was the ardent , charming and affectionate being , which the training of Jessy had developed from the squalid and forlorn captive child , won from the Black-feet . 
Jessy loved her as the most spirited , beautiful , and affectionate being , she had seen . 
Jessy was her grand exemplar ; and her estimates of opinions were her laws . 
In many striking ways she manifested the sentiment ; and fears that she would display it at improper times and places , began to be one of the annoying apprehensions of Jessy , whenever they met . 
In their walks to the blue lake , along the banks of the Sewasserna , and whenever their pursuits led them together , Jessy invariably took the arm , and received the attentions of Elder Wood , as a child conducted by an affectionate father . 
The retorted eye of Jessy numbered every case , in which he yielded her any of those natural , simple and common attentions , called for by circumstances . 
When she did at length understand , that Jessy was cautioning her against walking so much with Frederic , she smiled through tears , which formed in a moment at her tone of rebuke , and archly said , ` my wise and good sister , I will obey . 
` But , my wise sister Jessy , why should you cast on me that reproving glance , in reference to Frederic ? 
Jessy , anxious to put him at ease , made many efforts to elicit whatever communications he might have on his mind . 
The red people , free and independent , suffer little from bashfulness ; and for the first time she noted him apparently under the embarrassment of not knowing what to say , or not feeling the requisite courage to say it . 
At length , he said , hesitatingly , ` I imagined , I had somewhat to say to thee , when I invited thee here . 
Marking the transient glow occasioned by this address , so unlike his usual strain , he said , ` if I alarm thee , Wakona , thou hadst better return . ' 
` I thought , ' he replied , ` there was a fountain of words , like the flow of a stream , at my heart . 
Observing him to be excessively moved , marking his pale cheek , his trembling hands , and the various symptoms of debility and decline , an irrepressible pity , that at once banished alarm , arose within her . 
He stood himself a step in advance of Jessy , who also stood ; and he was looking , apparently in profound thought , upon the bosom of the blue lake . 
A firm and composed serenity sat on his countenance . 
The beautiful lake , as a sleeping mirror , five hundred feet below , reflected the half of the sun 's orb , the evening clouds of brass and crimson , that curtained his departure behind the blue summits . 
Astonished at his language , Jessy , Katrina and Frederic each grasped his robe at the same moment . 
He gracefully folded his robe , laid it on the arm of Jessy , and with the quickness of thought poised his hands , bent forward his head , and darted down the depths , like an arrow discharged from a bow . 
The eye scarcely traced his passage down the dizzying depths , when the faint plunge was heard , and the disturbed ripples were settling back to repose . 
Jessy fell in faintness upon the robe of the chief . 
Elder Wood approached him , sustaining Jessy on his arm , whose wild and haggard look intimated , that the stroke had almost touched her reason . 
They were indubitably convinced , that Jessy was considered , as having caused the death of the chief , and that even their safety would probably soon be a matter of question . 
Having finished , he said , ` I charge you , my children , now , in any emergency , to act according to your duty , and not according to your fears or your feelings ; and you , Jessy , I adjure you by the living God , to calm yourself , and take food , and lie down , and court rest . 
Jessy ceased weeping , and Katrina became comparatively calm . 
The cheek of Jessy blanched to a more deadly pale , and she said , ` I abide with you , be it to remain or depart . ' 
When they were completed , Jessy desired a moment for a final visit to the graves of her parents , that she might there utter her everlasting farewell to the valley . 
Jessy sat by Elder Wood in silent prayer . 
` Is it possible , ' asked Jessy , ` that we , who have seen , and suffered so much together , and who sustain such peculiar relations to each other , should feel it necessary to talk in this way ? 
The glow of this recent excitement on the lily of her pale cheek , the almost fearful brilliance of her naturally bright eye , imparted a new and dazzling lustre to her beauty ; and as she entered , the second morning of their stay at Astoria , to the breakfast table , even Elder Wood , not at all remarkable for having his attention arrested by beauty , whispered Frederic , ` my daughter Jessy shows the nearest like an angel , of aught that I have imagined . 
` Do your thoughts , like mine , ' asked Jessy , ` follow these red men , whom I can not but regard as brothers , all the long way up this stream , and the Sewasserna , to the sweet valley ? 
Jessy amused herself in sketching from memory a hundred different spots which they had passed in their travels ; and the conversation often turned upon the future . 
If Jessy had loved before , she now cherished towards him all those sentiments which had hitherto been shared by other objects . 
Her self complacency , too , was soothed , to find that every conversation developed new treasures in his mind , and that now the severest scrutiny of her judgment confirmed the previous decisions of her heart . 
Unhappily , Katrina saw him in the same light ; and as yet entirely unadvised of the position of Jessy in relation to him . 
With the perfect frankness of her ardent and untrained nature , she was not slow to disclose her new secret to Jessy , who , won by this generous confidence , no longer felt the tortures of jealousy . 
Jessy this time caressed her , and repeated a longer chapter of matronly admonitions , and affectionate counsels , than she had given her on a former occasion . 
` We must have an eye to our Spanish charge , ' said he to Jessy ; and they forthwith meditated an united lecture with the poor girl on the subject . 
` They allowed , ' she contended , ` that he was good and handsome ; why might she not love him ? 
` Our friend has confessed to me , in confidence , that he loves my daughter Jessy . 
The headlong earnestness of his confession astonished me , who had considered him a man remarkable for his calmness and self possession . ' 
The abruptness of this unexpected intelligence affected Jessy with palpitations , that poorly qualified her to impart the requisite cousolation to her charge . 
She had scarcely succeeded in obtaining calmness herself , and a cessation of the audible grief of her companion , when the object of this discussion entered their state room , and begged a confidential moment with Jessy . 
` As playful as a fawn , she is as unsuspicious as an infant ; ' and Jessy learned , that his object was to remove any apprehensions , that he should note unfavorably the manifestations of partiality , with which she had honored him . 
Never had he exhibited to her a more honorable test of the permanence and dignity of his sentiments , than in the assurance , that he should allow neither to his vanity or his wayward inclinations a single movement of encouragement . 
Incapable of the slightest return , he promised , never for a moment to trifle with her peace . 
She had the satisfaction to see , that the pledge was redeemed to the letter , and to meditate upon this chivalrous decorum , practised towards a girl almost constantly with him , who was every day developing new loveliness . 
Katrina was the first to discover , that Jessy , after the announcement of Elder Wood , gave undeniable evidence of mental alienation . 
Jessy arose , and bowing gracefully to Frederic , begged the honor of his arm , while she walked the deck with the rest . 
Jessy , as it seemed , in a momentary touch of docile sanity , gave her arm , and they walked below . 
Again Jessy conceived herself in the valley , in the presence of Areskoui and her parents . 
It was in vain , however , longer to conceal from him , that Jessy suffered intensely from some kind of mental affection . 
He had been sufficiently quick sighted , much as affection blinded him , to note the change in her manners . 
It certainly was not less gratifying to his self-complacency , to believe , that he had long been loved in concealment ; and now , that a succession of horrible scenes , in which she had been tried , had occasionally destroyed the balance of her pure and noble mind , that the sentiment , which maidenly modesty had so long reserved to itself , was disclosed . 
His heart bounded in rapture , that the lovely , talented , and enthusiastic Jessy , whom he had so loved from the first day of beholding her , would finally be his ; that all his visions of earthly bliss would at last be realized . 
Nor was it the least splendid point of his dream , to reflect , that , in being united to her , he should have chances to pay her those soothing attentions , and place her in that tranquilizing position , in which he might be instrumental , in restoring her mind to its usual tone . 
His imagination was busy in painting the delicious spot , in which he would place her beside his friends , in his own great country ; and he was firmly persuaded , that , in his own case , he should be able to give the lie to all that had been said and sung , in reference to the impossibility of perfect happiness on the earth . 
The eye of Jessy was intensely fixed on these cones of light . 
Elder Wood and Frederic sat with their fair friends on the settee , now congratulating Jessy on the removal of her head-ache ; now looking at the sea and the stars ; and only at intervals dropping those unfinished sentences of joy , hope and anticipation , which are the peculiar indexes of a full heart . 
In considerate kindness , Jessy requested Elder Wood to inform Katrina in such a way , as would be most likely to reconcile her thoughts to this inevitable blow to her own partiality for Frederic . 
Jessy , the beloved , and pledged of Frederic , became from that circumstance dearer to her thoughts , than ever . 
Jessy became thus invested with tenfold claims upon her respect , delicacy and unsleeping vigilance , to prevent her mental alienation from showing in such forms , as to be calculated to inspire any diminution of his love . 
But , as in the midst of horrible dreams , we sometimes comfort ourselves , that the shadowy terrors , under which we suffer , are but a dream , Jessy gladly escaped from these fearful intervals of sanity , to the exhilaration of her excited hours ; and then , though not aware of her malady , she was distinctly aware of the untiring vigilance of her Argus , and her ingenuity in the invention of expedients , to keep Frederic from visiting her state room . 
Hence-forward this girl of heroic affection was perusing all the medical books , that could be loaned on board , while Jessy slept , in search of the symptoms , prevention , and cure of mental diseases . 
On Jessy the excitement had produced , during her happy intervals , a delightful kind of hectic ecstacy , precisely that state of happy mental tension , in which the mind can dictate those wonderful acts , which transcend the ordinary compass of human experience and credibility ; and which fits it to triumph over fear and death . 
Jessy was still cheerful , and had been enquiring of the captain , in how many days they might expect to land at Macoa ? 
` We will settle it on the quarter deck , after tea , among us four , ' said Jessy , gaily rising , and giving her arm to Frederic , as they were summoned to tea in the cabin . 
` Pleasanter sky and stars never canopied the ocean , nor softer breeze fanned the atmosphere , ' said Jessy ; ` nor lovelier spectators surveyed the one and felt the other , ' cried Frederic ; ` at least than two of ours . 
Jessy arose , and threw her curls from her neck . 
Jessy sat perfectly composed , looking upon the unruffled mirror , sparkling with stars . 
Remember , that our dear Jessy is an invalid . 
` She is right , ' replied Jessy calmly . 
Jessy had disappeared . 
Jessy Yensi Weldon . ' 
