`` Mamma , do you think that Mr. Crawley stole the cheque ? '' 
`` Of course my mother thinks he did , '' said John , going back to his book . 
`` Mr. Crawley is not more than any other man just because he 's a clergyman . 
`` But I feel sure that Mr. Crawley has committed no crime at all , '' said Mary . 
I never spoke to Mr. Crawley in my life , and I do not think I ever saw her . '' 
And yet I do not believe for a moment that he stole the cheque . 
For though he may have been in debt because they have been so very , very poor ; yet we all know that he has been an excellent clergyman . 
When the Robartses were dining here last , I heard Mrs. Robarts say that for piety and devotion to his duties she had hardly ever seen any one equal to him . 
The whole county was astir in this matter of this alleged guilt of the Reverend Jesiah Crawley , -- the whole county , almost as keenly as the family of Mr. Walker , of Silverbridge . 
Mr. Crawley was in those days the perpetual curate of Hogglestock , a parish in the northern extremity of East barsetshire ; a man known by all who knew anything of him to be very poor , -- an unhappy , moody , disappointed man , upon whom the troubless of the world always seemed to come with a double weight . 
Mr. Crawley had now passed some ten years of his life at Hogglestock ; and during those years he had worked very hard to do his duty , struggling to teach the people around him perhaps too much of the mystery , but something also of the comfort , of religion . 
That he had become popular in his parish can not be said of him . 
He was not a man to make himself popular in any position . 
I have said that he was moody and disappointed . 
He was even worse than this ; he was morose , sometimes almost to insanity . 
There had been days in which even his wife had found it impossible to deal with him otherwise than as with an acknowledged lunatic . 
But among the very poor , among the brickmakers of Hoggle End , -- a lawless , drunken , terribly rough lot of humanity , -- he was held in high respect ; for they knew that he lived hardly , as they lived ; that he worked hard , as they worked ; and that the outside world was hard to him , as it was to them ; and there had been an apparent sincerity of godliness about the man , and a manifest struggle to do his duty in spite of the world 's ill-usage , which had won its way even with the rough ; so that Mr. Crawley 's name had stood high with many in his parish , in spite of the unfortunate peculiarity of his disposition . 
But before the circumstances of the alleged theft are stated , a word or two must be said as to Mr. Crawley 's family . 
Mr. Crawley might have been a bishop , and Mrs. Crawley , when she married him , perhaps thought it probable that such would be his fortune . 
Instead of that he was now , just as he was approaching his fiftieth year , a perpetual curate , with an income of one hundred and thirty pounds per annum , -- and a family . 
She had striven hard to be contented , or , rather , to appear to be contented , when he had been most wretched and most moody . 
She had struggled to conceal from him her own conviction as to his half-insanity , treating him at the same time with the respect due to an honoured father of a family , and with the careful measured indulgence fit for a sick and wayward child . 
But then nothing was lucky to Mr. Crawley . 
But Mr. Crawley would almost have preferred that the boy should work in the fields , than that he should be educated in a manner so manifestly eleemosynary . 
And then his clothes ! 
How was he to be provided with clothes fit either for school or for college ? 
But the dean and Mrs. Crawley between them managed this , leaving Mr. Crawley very much in the dark , as Mrs. Crawley was in the habit of leaving him . 
Then there was a younger daughter , Jane , still at home , who passed her life between her mother 's work-table and her father 's Greek , mending linen and learning to scan iambics , -- for Mr. Crawley in his early days had been a ripe scholar . 
That poor Mr. Crawley had gradually got himself into a mess of debt at Silverbridge , from which he was quite unable to extricate himself , was generally known by all the world both of Silverbridge and Hogglestock . 
There had been one creditor , Fletcher , the butcher of Silverbridge , who had of late been specially hard upon poor Crawley . 
This man , who had not been without good nature in his dealings , had heard stories of the dean 's good-will and such like , and had loudly expressed his opinion that the perpetual curate of Hogglestock would show a higher pride in allowing himself to be indebted to a rich brother clergyman , than in remaining under thrall to a butcher . 
And then the butcher had written repeated letters to the bishop , -- to Bishop Proudie of Barchester , who had at first caused his chaplain to answer them , and had told Mr. Crawley somewhat roundly what was his opinion of a clergyman who eat meat and did not pay for it . 
But nothing that the bishop could say or do enabled Mr. Crawley to pay the butcher . 
It was very grievous to such a man as Mr. Crawley to receive these letters from such a man as Bishop Proudie ; but the letters came , and made festering wounds , but then there was an end of them . 
All who heard of this in Silverbridge were very angry with Mr. Fletcher , for no one there had ever known a tradesman to take such a step before ; but Fletcher swore that he would persevere , and defended himself by showing that six or seven months since , in the spring of the year , Mr. Crawley had been paying money in Silverbridge , but had paid none to him , -- to him who had been not only his earliest , but his most enduring creditor . 
This pocket-book Soames had believed himself to have left at Mr. Crawley 's house , and had gone so far , even at the time of the loss , as to express his absolute conviction that he had so left it . 
He was in the habit of paying a rentcharge to Mr. Crawley on behalf of Lord Lufton , amounting to twenty pounds four shillings , every half-year . 
On the occasion now spoken of , he had had some reason for visiting Hogglestock , and had paid the money personally to Mr. Crawley . 
But he had paid it by a cheque drawn by himself on his own bankers at Barchester , and that cheque had been cashed in the ordinary way on the next morning . 
On returning to his own house in Barchester he had missed his pocket-book , and had written to Mr. Crawley to make inquiry . 
Mr. Crawley had answered this letter by another , saying that no pocket-book had been found in his house . 
In October , Mrs. Crawley paid the twenty pounds to Fletcher , the butcher , and in November Lord Lufton 's cheque was traced back through the Barchester bank to Mr. Crawley 's hands . 
A brickmaker of Hoggle End , much favoured by Mr. Crawley , had asked for change over the counter of this Barchester bank , -- not , as will be understood , the bank on which the cheque was drawn -- and had received it . 
The accommodation had been refused to the man at first , but when he presented the cheque the second day , bearing Mr. Crawley 's name on the back of it , together with a note from Mr. Crawley himself , the money had been given for it ; and the identical notes so paid had been given to Fletcher , the butcher , on the next day by Mrs. Crawley . 
When inquiry was made , Mr. Crawley stated that the cheque had been paid to him by Mr. Soames , on behalf of the rentcharge due to him by Lord Lufton . 
Mr. Crawley was speedily shown to be altogether wrong in the statement made to account for possession of the cheque . 
Then he became very moody and would say nothing further . 
But his wife , who had known nothing of his first statement when made , came forward and declared that she believed the cheque for twenty pounds to be a part of a present given by Dean Arabin to her husband in April last . 
Up to this period Mr. Walker had not suspected Mr. Crawley of anything dishonest , nor did he suspect him as yet . 
`` And then I felt sure at the time that I had left it at Crawley 's house ! '' 
There came back a letter from Mr. Arabin , saying that on the 17th of March he had given to Mr. Crawley a sum of fifty pounds , and that the payment had been made with five Bank of England notes of ten pounds each , which had been handed by him to his friend in the library at the deanery . 
Mr. Walker , in his anxiety to do the best he could for Mr. Crawley , had simply asked a question as to the nature of the transaction between the two gentlemen , saying that no doubt the dean 's answer would clear up a little mystery which existed at present respecting a cheque for twenty pounds . 
The dean in answer simply stated the fact as it has been given above ; but he wrote to Mr. Crawley begging to know what was in truth this new difficulty , and offering any assistance in his power . 
He explained all the circumstances of the money , as he remembered them . 
He had put the notes into an envelope , which he had not closed , but had addressed to Mr. Crawley , and had placed this envelope in his friend 's hands . 
He went on to say that Mrs. Arabin would have written , but that she was in Paris with her son . 
Mr. Crawley had not received Lord Lufton 's cheque from the dean . 
Then whence had he received it ? 
`` He says that he gave Mr. Crawley five ten-pound notes , and those five notes we have traced to Mr. Crawley 's hands . '' 
I must ask the reader to make the acquaintance of Major Grantly of Cosby Lodge , before he is introduced to the family of Mr. Crawley , at their parsonage in Hogglestock . 
`` I am told , '' continued the archdeacon , `` that Soames declares the cheque was taken from a pocket-book which he left by accident in Crawley 's house . '' 
`` You do n't mean to say , archdeacon , that you think that Mr. Crawley -- a clergyman -- stole it ! '' 
But supposing Mr. Crawley to be as honest as the sun , you would n't wish Henry to marry his daughter . '' 
This had been after the first mention made by Mrs. Grantly to her son of Emily Dunstable 's name , but before she had heard any faintest whispers of his fancy for Grace Crawley ; and she had therefore been justified in hoping , -- almost in expecting , that Emily Dunstable would be her daughter-in-law , and was therefore the more aggrieved when this terrible Crawley peril first opened itself before her eyes . 
Her brother Henry she would be glad to meet , and hoped to make some arrangement with him for a short visit to Hartlebury , her husband 's place in Shropshire , -- as to which latter hint , it may , however , be at once said , that nothing further was spoken after the Crawley alliance had been suggested . 
The young woman whose name I have heard is daughter to that Mr. Crawley who is perpetual curate at Hogglestock . 
The magistrates would sit on the next Thursday , -- it was then Friday , -- and Mr. Crawley had better appear before them to answer the charge made by Mr. Soames . 
Would Mr. Crawley come , or must a policeman be sent to fetch him ? 
The magistrates had already issued a warrant for his apprehension . 
Then Mr. Walker had suggested that Mr. Crawley had better employ a lawyer . 
At the further end of the room there was an ancient piece of furniture , which was always called `` papa 's secretary , '' at which Mr. Crawley customarily sat and wrote his sermons , and did all work that was done by him within his house . 
But beneath the hands of Mr. Crawley it always stood open ; and with the exception of the small space at which he wrote , was covered with dog 's - eared books , from nearly all of which the covers had disappeared . 
There was a little bit of a volume of Cicero , and there were Cæsar 's Commentaries , in two volumes , so stoutly bound that they had defied the combined ill-usage of time and the Crawley family . 
There was one armchair in the room , -- a Windsor-chair , as such used to be called , made soft by an old cushion in the back , in which Mr. Crawley sat when both he and his wife were in the room , and Mrs. Crawley when he was absent . 
The children know of it , and I hear their whispers in the school , ` Mr. Crawley has taken some money . ' 
Mr. Robarts was a warm friend to the Crawleys , and in such an emergency would probably have come himself ; but Mr. Crawley would not hear of it . 
Opinion in Silverbridge , at Barchester , and throughout the county , was very much divided as to the guilt or innocence of Mr. Crawley . 
The cheque had of course been traced , and inquiry had of course been made as to Mr. Crawley 's possession of it . 
When Mr. Crawley had afterwards said that the money had come to him from the dean , and when the dean had shown that this also was untrue , Mr. Soames , confident as he was that he had dropped the pocket-book at Mr. Crawley 's house , could not but continue the investigation . 
He had done so with as much silence as the nature of the work admitted . 
To Dr. Tempest it appeared to be neither very strange nor very terrible that Mr. Crawley should have stolen twenty pounds . 
`` What is a man to do , '' he said , `` when he sees his children starving ? 
Mr. Crawley had married , however , long before he got the living of Hogglestock . 
There were two Lady Luftons , -- mother-in-law and daughter-in-law , -- who at this time were living together at Framley Hall , Lord Lufton 's seat in the county of Barset , and they were both thoroughly convinced of Mr. Crawley 's innocence . 
She had also known Mr. Crawley personally for some years , and was one of those who could not admit to herself that any one was vile who had been near to herself . 
She was an old woman who thought all evil of those she did not know , and all good of those whom she did know ; and as she did know Mr. Crawley , she was quite sure he had not stolen Mr. Soames 's twenty pounds . 
She had , in truth , known more of Mr. Crawley personally , than had any one in the county , unless it was the dean . 
The younger Lady Lufton , the present Lord Lufton 's wife , had sojourned at one time in Mr. Crawley 's house , amidst the Crawley poverty , living as they lived , and nursing Mrs. Crawley through an illness which had well nigh been fatal to her ; and the younger Lady Lufton believed in Mr. Crawley , -- as Mr. Crawley also believed in her . 
For the life of me I ca n't conceive how the cheque got into Crawley 's hands . '' 
`` I imagine that it had been lying in the house , and that Crawley had come to think that it was his own . '' 
`` I hope they wo n't send Crawley to prison . '' 
`` I do n't see how the magistrates can save themselves from committing him . 
`` I believe that he is mad , '' said the brother parson . 
`` He always was , as far as I could learn , '' said the lord . 
`` I never knew him , myself . 
I know him . '' 
And the vicar of Framley became silent and thoughtful as the memory of a certain interview between himself and Mr. Crawley came back upon his mind . 
At that time the waters had nearly closed over his head and Mr. Crawley had given him some assistance . 
At Barchester , the cathedral city of the county in which the Crawleys lived , opinion was violently against Mr. Crawley . 
It was known at the palace in Barchester , that kindness had been shown to the Crawleys by the family at Framley Hall , and this alone would have been sufficient to make Mrs. Proudie believe that Mr. Crawley could have been guilty of any crime . 
He knew that he could not do exactly what his wife required of him ; but if it should so turn out that poor Crawley was found to be guilty , then the matter would be comparatively easy . 
That was the tone in which the question of Mr. Crawley 's alleged guilt was discussed at the palace . 
As the days passed by , and as other tidings came in , confirmatory of those which had before reached him , the archdeacon felt himself unable not to believe in the man 's guilt . 
But when this terrible affair came on about the cheque which had been lost and found and traced to Mr. Crawley 's hands , Miss Anne Prettyman said nothing further to Grace Crawley about Major Grantly . 
It was not that she thought that Mr. Crawley was guilty , but she knew enough of the world to be aware that suspicion of such guilt might compel such a man as Major Grantly to change his mind . 
If the accusation against Crawley were false , -- if the man were being injured by an unjust charge , -- even if he , Grantly , could make himself think that the girl 's father had not stolen the money , then he would dare everything and go on . 
He found that among those in Silverbridge whom he presumed to be best informed on such matters , there was a growing opinion that Mr. Crawley had stolen the money . 
He was intimate with all the Walkers , and was able to find out that Mrs. Walker knew that her husband believed in the clergyman 's guilt . 
She would have given a finger to be able to whitewash Mr. Crawley in the major 's estimation . 
But there was the look of sorrow in the woman 's eye , there was the absence of reference to her husband 's assurance that the man was innocent , there was the air of settled grief which told of her own conviction ; and the major left her , convinced that Mrs. Walker believed Mr. Crawley to be guilty . 
Then he went to Barchester ; not open-mouthed with inquiry , but rather with open ears , and it seemed to him that all men in Barchester were of one mind . 
There was a county-club in Barchester , and at this county-club nine men out of every ten were talking about Mr. Crawley . 
There had been every disposition at first to believe Mr. Crawley to be innocent . 
He had been believed to be innocent , even after he had said wrongly that the cheque had been paid to him by Mr. Soames ; but he had since stated that he had received it from Dean Arabin , and that statement was also shown to be false . 
Mr. Crawley had not only failed to do this , but had given two false excuses . 
`` Of course Mr. Crawley is as innocent in the matter as you or I are . '' 
She saw something of the man 's spirit , and believed that , having gone so far , -- having so far told his love , he would return to his love hereafter , let the result of the Crawley trial be what it might . 
She had been made to understand that the magistrates were sinning against the strict rule of the law in not issuing a warrant at once for Mr. Crawley 's apprehension ; and that they were so sinning at the instance of Mr. Walker , -- at whose instance they would have committed almost any sin practicable by a board of English magistrates , so great was their faith in him ; and she knew that she was bound to answer her engagement . 
Mr. Crawley first declared that he would have nothing to do with any attorney . 
As to that he seemed to have made up his mind beforehand , and she saw at once that she had no hope of shaking him . 
But when she found that he was equally obstinate in the other matter , and that he declared that he would not go before the magistrates unless he were made to do so , -- unless the policemen came and fetched him , then she almost sank beneath the burden of her troubles , and for a while was disposed to let things go as they would . 
He found Mrs. Crawley sitting in the parlour with her bonnet and shawl on , and Mr. Crawley in the arm-chair , leaning over the fire . 
`` I will pass my word for nothing , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
If I am made to go , I will walk , '' shouted Mr. Crawley . 
Mr. Crawley had not spoken a word since he had entered the vehicle . 
Nor had she said much to him , but had sat with him holding his hand in hers . 
Now he spoke to her , -- `` Where is it that we are ? '' 
he asked . 
said Mr. Crawley . 
`` I suppose it is the custom when the magistrates are sitting , '' said his wife . 
`` They have come to see the degradation of a clergyman , '' said he ; -- `` and they will not be disappointed . '' 
`` Nothing can degrade but guilt , '' said his wife . 
Then he was silent for a while , while she was chafing his cold hands . 
he repeated . 
When he did so , Mr. Crawley grasped hold of his chair as though he had resolved that he would not go . 
But his wife whispered a word to him , and he obeyed her . 
There were many other gentlemen in the room , and some who knew Mr. Crawley with more or less intimacy . 
He , however , took notice of no one , and when one friend , who had really known him well , came up behind and spoke to him gently leaning over his chair , the poor man hardly recognized his friend . 
`` I 'm sure your husband wo n't forget me , '' said Mr. Robarts , the clergyman of Framley , as he gave his hand to that lady across the back of Mr. Crawley 's chair . 
I do n't understand much about it , and I daresay you do not either ; but if there should be anything of that sort , let Mr. Crawley name me . 
Then he left her , not waiting for any answer . 
`` I 'll go to him , '' said Walker , `` and try to arrange it . '' 
So Mr. Walker seated himself in the empty chair beside Mr. Crawley , and endeavoured to explain to the wretched man , that he would do well to allow Mr. Mason to assist him . 
Mr. Crawley seemed to listen to all that was said , and then turned upon the speaker sharply : `` I will have no one to assist me , '' he said so loudly that every one in the room heard the words . 
Mr. Mason made a quick movement forward , intending to explain that that consideration need offer no impediment , but was stopped by further speech from Mr. Crawley . 
`` I will have no one to help me , '' said he , standing upright , and for the first time removing his hat from his head . 
After that he did not sit down till the proceedings were nearly over , though he was invited more than once by Lord Lufton to do so . 
It was proved that money for the cheque was paid to Mr. Crawley 's messenger , and that this money was given to Mr. Crawley . 
When there occurred some little delay in the chain of evidence necessary to show that Mr. Crawley had signed and sent the cheque and got the money , he became impatient . 
he said . 
Then Mr. Soames and the manager of the bank showed what inquiry had been made as soon as the cheque came back from the London bank ; how at first they had both thought that Mr. Crawley could of course explain the matter , and how he had explained it by a statement which was manifestly untrue . 
Then there was evidence to prove that the cheque could not have been paid to him by Mr. Soames , and as this was given , Mr. Crawley shook his head and again became impatient . 
`` I erred in that , '' he exclaimed . 
Up to this point he had behaved not only with so much spirit , but with so much reason , that his wife began to hope that the importance of the occasion had brought back the clearness of his mind , and that he would , even now , be able to place himself right as the inquiry went on . 
Then it was explained that Mr. Crawley had stated that the cheque had been given to him by Dean Arabin , as soon as it was shown that it could not have been given to him by Mr. Soames . 
Mr. Walker explained also that the very notes of which this fifty pounds had consisted had been traced back to Mr. Crawley , and that they had had no connection with the cheque or with the money which had been given for the cheque at the bank . 
Mr. Soames stated that he had lost the cheque with a pocket-book ; that he had certainly lost it on the day on which he had called on Mr. Crawley at Hogglestock ; and that he missed his pocket-book on his journey back from Hogglestock to Barchester . 
At the moment of missing it he remembered that he had taken the book out from his pocket in Mr. Crawley 's room , and , at that moment , he had not doubted but that he had left it in Mr. Crawley 's house . 
He had written and sent to Mr. Crawley to inquire , but had been assured that nothing had been found . 
There had been no other property of value in the pocket-book , -- nothing but a few visiting cards and a memorandum , and he had therefore stopped the cheque at the London bank , and thought no more about it . 
Mr. Crawley was then asked to explain in what way he came possessed of the cheque . 
Could Mr. Crawley at all remember by what means that bit of paper had come into his possession , or how long he had had it ? 
He answered the last question first . 
And why had he kept it ? 
He looked round the room sternly , almost savagely , before he answered , fixing his eyes for a moment upon almost every face around him as he did so . 
Then he spoke . 
And then the other question was pressed upon him ; and he lifted up his hands , and raised his voice , and swore by the Saviour in whom he trusted , that he knew not from whence the money had come to him . 
Why then had he said that it had come from the dean ? 
He had thought so . 
Mr. Walker told them that Mr. Fothergill was right , and that the only excuse to be made for Mr. Crawley was that he was out of his senses . 
Mr. Crawley had again seated himself , and during this period of the affair was leaning over the table with his face buried on his arms . 
Mrs. Crawley sat by his side , utterly impotent as to any assistance , just touching him with her hand , and waiting behind her veil till she should be made to understand what was the decision of the magistrates . 
This was at last communicated to her , -- and to him , -- in a whisper by Mr. Walker . 
Mr. Crawley must understand that he was committed to take his trial at Barchester , at the next assizes , which would be held in April , but that bail would be taken ; -- his own bail in five hundred pounds , and that of two others in two hundred and fifty pounds each . 
In five minutes the bond was signed and Mr. Crawley was at liberty to go away , a free man , -- till the Barchester Assizes should come round in April . 
Of all that was going on at this time Mr. Crawley knew little or nothing , and Mrs. Crawley did not know much . 
It was undoubtedly the fact that Miss Anne Prettyman had received an accession of pleasurable emotion when she learned that Mr. Crawley had not been sent away scathless , but had been condemned , as it were , to a public trial at the assizes . 
In old days , long ago , Lucy Robarts , the present Lady Lufton , sister of the Rev. Mark Robarts , the parson of Framley , had sojourned for a while under Mr. Crawley 's roof at Hogglestock . 
Lord Lufton had offered assistance , pecuniary assistance , to Mr. Crawley , which Mr Crawley had rejected with outspoken anger . 
Somebody has picked it up , and in some way the cheque has got into Crawley 's hand . 
Then he has locked it up and has forgotten all about it ; and when that butcher threatened him , he has put his hand upon it , and he has thought , or believed , that it had come from Soames or from the dean , or from heaven , if you will . 
If only the bishop could have been found to have stolen a cheque for twenty pounds instead of poor Mr. Crawley , Lady Lufton would , I think , have been satisfied . 
It was felt by them all , -- including Lord Lufton himself , who became so interested in the matter as to forgive the black coats before the evening was over , -- that this matter of Mr. Crawley 's committal was very serious , and demanded the full energies of their party . 
It was known to them all that the feeling at the palace was inimical to Mr. Crawley . 
`` That she-Beelzebub hates him for his poverty , and because Arabin brought him into the diocese , '' said the archdeacon , permitting himself to use very strong language in his allusion to the bishop 's wife . 
It must be recorded on his behalf that he used the phrase in the presence only of the gentlemen of the party . 
I think he might have whispered the word into the ear of his confidential friend old Lady Lufton , and perhaps have given no offence ; but he would not have ventured to use such words aloud in the presence of ladies . 
It was quite true that the palace party was inimical to Mr. Crawley . 
Mr. Crawley undoubtedly was poor , and had not been so submissive to episcopal authority as it behoves any clergyman to be whose loaves and fishes are scanty . 
The fact that such dialogues took place at the palace is recorded simply to show that the palatial feeling in Barchester ran counter to Mr. Crawley . 
And this was cause enough , if no other cause existed , for partiality to Mr. Crawley at Framley Court . 
But , as has been partly explained , there existed , if possible , even stronger ground than this for adherence to the Crawley cause . 
Both these ladies were therefore staunch in their defence of Mr. Crawley . 
The archdeacon himself had his own reasons , -- reasons which for the present he kept altogether within his own bosom , -- for wishing that Mr. Crawley had never entered the diocese . 
Whether the perpetual curate should or should not be declared to be a thief , it would be terrible to him to have to call the child of that perpetual curate his daughter-in-law . 
But not the less on this occasion was he true to his order , true to his side in the diocese , true to his hatred of the palace . 
`` I do n't believe it for a moment , '' he said , as he took his place on the rug before the fire in the drawing-room when the gentlemen came in from their wine . 
The ladies understood at once what it was that he could n't believe . 
Mr. Crawley had for the moment so usurped the county that nobody thought of talking of anything else . 
In this case I do n't believe Crawley would ever have been committed if he had employed an attorney , instead of speaking for himself . '' 
`` Why did n't somebody make him have an attorney ? '' 
Then the whole matter was discussed again , and it was settled among them all that Mr. Crawley had undoubtedly appropriated the cheque through temporary obliquity of judgment , -- obliquity of judgment and forgetfulness as to the source from whence the cheque had come to him . 
They would have said much as to the weakness of the bishop and the wickedness of the bishop 's wife , and would have declared the appropriator to have been as very a thief as ever picked a pocket or opened a till ; -- but they were unanimous in their acquittal of Mr. Crawley . 
It had not been his intention , they said , to be a thief , and a man should be judged only by his intention . 
There 's not a tradesman in the city who does not hate that woman as though she were -- '' `` Archdeacon , '' said his wife , cautioning him to repress his energy . 
Arguing from which fact , -- or from which assertion , he came to the conclusion that no Barchester jury would find Mr. Crawley guilty . 
Mr. Crawley must be provided with legal assistance , and this must be furnished to him whether he should be willing or unwilling to receive it . 
Mr. Crawley was known to be a man not easy of persuasion , with a will of his own , with a great energy of obstinacy on points which he chose to take up as being of importance to his calling , or to his own professional status . 
He had pleaded his own cause before the magistrates , and it might be that he would insist on doing the same thing before the judge . 
At last Mr. Robarts , the clergyman of Framley , was deputed from the knot of Crawleian advocates assembled in Lady Lufton 's drawing-room , to undertake the duty of seeing Mr. Crawley , and of explaining to him that his proper defence was regarded as a matter appertaining to the clergy and gentry generally of that part of the country , and that for the sake of the clergy and gentry the defence must of course be properly conducted . 
It was thought that Mr. Robarts could put the matter to Mr. Crawley with such a mixture of the strength of manly friendship and the softness of clerical persuasion , as to overcome the recognized difficulties of the task . 
Tidings of Mr. Crawley 's fate reached the palace at Barchester on the afternoon of the day on which the magistrates had committed him . 
The bishop was a conscientious man , and well knew that poor Mr. Crawley , even though he might have become a thief under terrible temptation , would not roar at Hogglestock to the injury of any man 's soul . 
He knew well that she would not hear a word in mitigation of Mr. Crawley 's presumed offence . 
Mr. Crawley belonged to the other party , and Mrs. Proudie was a thorough-going partisan . 
But Bishop Proudie knew that Mr. Crawley was not a clergyman with a submissive mind , and he feared that he himself , as regarded from Mr. Crawley 's point of view , was not a dominant bishop . 
Then the bishop was left alone for an hour to write the letter which Mr. Thumble was to carry over to Mr. Crawley , -- and after a while he did write it . 
How would it go with him suppose he were to leave the letter unwritten , and send in a message by his chaplain to Mrs. Proudie , saying that as Mr. Crawley was out on bail , the parish might be left for the present without episcopal interference ? 
She could not make him interfere . 
She could not force him to write the letter . 
So , at least , he said to himself . 
But as he said it , he almost thought that she could do these things . 
But what would happen if now , even now , he were to rebel ? 
That he would personally become very uncomfortable , he was well aware , but he thought that he could bear that . 
The food would become bad , -- mere ashes between his teeth , the daily modicum of wine would lose its flavour , the chimneys would all smoke , the wind would come from the east , and the servants would not answer the bell . 
Little miseries of that kind would crowd upon him . 
He had arrived at a time of life in which such miseries make such men very miserable ; but yet he thought that he could endure them . 
And what other wretchedness would come to him ? 
She would scold him , -- frightfully , loudly , scornfully , and worse than all , continually . 
But of this he had so much habitually , that anything added might be borne also ; -- if only he could be sure that the scoldings should go on in private , that the world of the palace should not be allowed to hear the revilings to which he would be subjected . 
But to be scolded publicly was the great evil which he dreaded beyond all evils . 
He was well aware that the palace would know his misfortune , that it was known , and freely discussed by all , from the examining chaplain down to the palace boot-boy ; -- nay , that it was known to all the diocese ; but yet he could smile upon those around him , and look as though he held his own like other men , -- unless when open violence was displayed . 
`` The bishop and I therefore are most anxious that you should make Mr. Crawley understand at once , -- at once , '' and the lady , as she spoke , lifted up her left hand with an eloquent violence which had its effect upon Mr. Thumble , `` that he is inhibited , '' -- the bishop shook in his shoes , -- `` inhibited from the performance of any of his sacred duties . '' 
On the Friday morning , the morning of the day after his committal , Mr. Crawley got up very early , long before the daylight , and dressing himself in the dark , groped his way downstairs . 
His wife having vainly striven to persuade him to remain where he was , followed him into the cold room below with a lighted candle . 
She found him standing with his hat on and with his old cloak , as though he were prepared to go out . 
For a moment he hesitated , but as she raised her hand to take his cloak from him he drew back from her , and would not permit it . 
`` I shall find those up whom I want to see , '' he said . 
She still held him by the cloak , and looked anxiously up into his face . 
`` Woman , '' he said , raising his voice , `` what is it that you dread ? 
He had now taken hold of her by the shoulder , slightly thrusting her from him , so that he might see her face by the dim light of the single candle . 
He looked hard at her , while she returned his gaze with beseeching loving eyes . 
She had never lied to him . 
She could not lie to him . 
She did let him pass without another word , and he went out of the house , shutting the door after him noiselessly , and closing the wicket-gate of the garden . 
For a while she sat herself down on the nearest chair , and tried to make up her mind how she might best treat him in his present state of mind . 
She knew that he would do now nothing of that which she had apprehended . 
She could trust him not to be false in his word to her , though she could not before have trusted him not to commit so much heavier a sin . 
If he would really employ himself from morning till night among the poor , he would be better so , -- his trouble would be easier of endurance , -- than with any other employment which he could adopt . 
What she most dreaded was that he should sit idle over the fire and do nothing . 
When he was so seated she could read his mind , as though it was open to her as a book . 
She had been quite right when she had accused him of over-indulgence in his grief . 
He did give way to it till it became a luxury to him , -- a luxury which she would not have had the heart to deny him , had she not felt it to be of all luxuries the most pernicious . 
During these long hours , in which he would sit speechless , doing nothing , he was telling himself from minute to minute that of all God 's creatures he was the most heavily afflicted , and was revelling in the sense of the injustice done to him . 
But Mr. Crawley , -- so he told himself , -- could have encountered all that without flinching . 
The stripes and scorn of the unfaithful would have been nothing to him , if only the faithful would have believed in him , poor as he was , as they would have believed in him had he been rich ! 
Even they whom he had most loved treated him almost with derision , because he was now different from them . 
Mr. Crawley went forth and made his way with rapid steps to a portion of his parish nearly two miles distant from his house , through which was carried a canal , affording water communication in some intricate way both to London and Bristol . 
Mr. Crawley , ever since his first coming into Hogglestock , had been very busy among these brickmakers , and by no means without success . 
Indeed the farmers had quarrelled with him because the brickmakers had so crowded the narrow parish church , as to leave but scant room for decent people . 
argued one farmer , -- not altogether unnaturally , believing as he did that Mr. Crawley was paid by tithes out of his own pocket . 
But Mr. Crawley had done his best to make the brickmakers welcome at the church , scandalizing the farmers by causing them to sit or stand in any portion of the church which was hitherto unappropriated . 
He had been constant in his personal visits to them , and had felt himself to be more a St. Paul with them than with any other of his neighbours around him . 
A voice answered from the interior , inquiring who was the visitor , to which Mr. Crawley replied by giving his name . 
asked Mr. Crawley . 
The man answered by pointing with a short poker , which he held in his hand , to the bed , which was half screened from the room by a ragged curtain , which hung from the ceiling half-way down to the floor . 
asked Mr. Crawley . 
But the old woman , having well noted the presence of Mr. Crawley , thought it better to remain where she was . 
Mr. Crawley sat himself down by the obstinate fire , and began to arrange the sticks . 
Then Morris stood by and watched , and after a while Mr. Crawley succeeded in his attempt . 
said Mr. Crawley . 
The husband said no word in acknowledgment of this compliment , nor did he thank Mr. Crawley for what he had done , nor appear as though he intended to take any notice of him . 
He was going on with his work when Mr. Crawley again interrupted him . 
said the voice from the bed , rebuking him for the impropriety of his language . 
And he put his hand into his breeches ' - pocket and fetched out a sixpence . 
`` I wish they 'd given you something more with all my heart , '' said Crawley . 
said Mr. Crawley , when the man 's ill-humour about his sixpence had so far subsided as to allow of his busying himself again about the premises . 
`` Yes , yes , we feel that ; we do indeed , Mr. Crawley . '' 
And he brought out the sixpence again from his breeches ' - pocket . 
`` If they think that I stole it , they have been right , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
`` If they think that I 've been a thief , they 've done right , '' repeated Mr. Crawley . 
Whereupon he again pulled out the sixpence , and held it forth in the palm of his hand . 
`` You believe , then , '' said Mr. Crawley , speaking very slowly , `` that I did steal the money . 
`` Speak out , man , when I tell you , '' said Crawley . 
`` Speak out the truth , '' said Crawley . 
Having so spoken , Mr. Crawley rose from his chair and hurried out of the cottage , waiting no further reply from Dan Morris or his wife . 
It was nearly nine before Mr. Crawley got back to his house , and found his wife and daughter waiting breakfast for him . 
`` She 'd better remain where she is , '' said he . 
Were the bishop energetic , -- or even the bishop 's managing chaplain as energetic as he should be , Mr. Crawley might , as Mrs. Proudie felt assured , be made in some way to pay for a conveyance for Mr. Thumble . 
Mr. Crawley immediately raised his head , though he did not at once leave his chair . 
But Mrs. Crawley , though she answered him with a voice intended to be cheerful , greatly feared the coming of this messenger from the palace . 
`` Tell him to tie it to the rail , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
As Mr. Thumble did not at once enter the room , Mr. Crawley stalked to the door , and stood with it open in his hand . 
Though he knew Mr. Thumble 's person , he was not acquainted with him , and therefore he simply bowed to the visitor , bowing more than once or twice with a cold courtesy , which did not put Mr. Thumble altogether at his ease . 
Mr. Crawley seemed to take no notice of the letter , but motioned Mr. Thumble with his hand into the room . 
Had he been sent on a message to Plumstead , -- could any such message from Barchester palace have been possible , he would have been properly humble in his demeanour to the archdeacon , or to Mrs. Grantly had he been admitted to the august presence of that lady ; but he was aware that humility would not become him on his present mission ; he had been expressly ordered to be firm by Mrs. Proudie , and firm he meant to be ; and therefore , in communicating to Mrs. Crawley the fact that he had come from the palace , he did load the tone of his voice with something of dignity which Mr. Crawley might perhaps be excused for regarding as arrogance . 
said Mr. Crawley . 
And as Mr. Crawley asked the question he stood erect , and looked Mr. Thumble full in the face . 
Mr. Thumble called to mind the fact , that Mr. Crawley was a very poor man indeed , -- so poor that he owed money all round the country to butchers and bakers , and the other fact , that he , Mr. Thumble himself , did not owe any money to any one , his wife luckily having a little income of her own ; and , strengthened by these remembrances , he endeavoured to bear Mr. Crawley 's attack with gallantry . 
`` Of course , Mr. Crawley , you are aware that this unfortunate affair at Silverbridge -- '' `` I am not prepared , sir , to discuss the unfortunate affair at Silverbridge with a stranger . 
Then Mr. Crawley stretched out his hand without a word , and taking the letter with him to the window , read it very slowly . 
When he had made himself master of its contents , he refolded the letter , placed it again in the envelope , and returned to the spot where Mr. Thumble was standing . 
`` I think , Mr. Crawley , as the bishop wishes me to undertake the duty -- '' `` You will not undertake the duty , Mr. Thumble . 
Mr. Crawley spoke these words without hesitation , even with eloquence , standing upright , and with something of a noble anger gleaming over his poor wan face ; and , I think , that while speaking them , he was happier than he had been for many a long day . 
`` I think you will find , Mr. Crawley , '' said he , `` that the bishop 's inhibition is strictly legal . '' 
`` It is illegal , '' said Mr. Crawley , speaking somewhat louder than before , `` and will be absolutely futile . 
`` Am I to understand , Mr. Crawley , that you refuse to obey the bishop ? '' 
He did not , however , at all like waiting , having perceived that Mr. Crawley , though with language courteously worded , had spoken of him as a mere messenger . 
`` I think , '' he said , `` that I may , perhaps , best further the object which we must all have in view , that namely of providing properly for the Sunday services of the church of Hogglestock , by taking your reply personally to the bishop . '' 
`` That provision is my care and need trouble no one else , '' said Mr. Crawley , in a loud voice . 
Then , before seating himself at his old desk , he stood awhile , pondering , with his back turned to his visitor . 
`` I have to ask your pardon , sir , '' said he , looking round for a moment , `` because , by reason of the extreme poverty of this house , my wife is unable to offer to you that hospitality which is especially due from one clergyman to another . '' 
Had there been no third person in the room he could have sat down in Mr. Crawley 's arm-chair , and waited patiently till the letter should be finished . 
But Mrs. Crawley was there , and of course he was bound to speak to her . 
In what strain could he do so ? 
Even he , little as he was given to indulge in sentiment , had been touched by the man 's appeal to his own poverty , and he felt , moreover , that Mrs. Crawley must have been deeply moved by her husband 's position with reference to the bishop 's order . 
It was quite out of the question that he should speak of that , as Mr. Crawley would , he was well aware , immediately turn upon him . 
At last he thought of a subject , and spoke with a voice intended to be pleasant . 
Mrs. Crawley told him that it was the school-house . 
`` I , -- I am the certified teacher , '' said Mr. Crawley , turning round upon him from his chair . 
Mr. Crawley 's letter was written quickly , though every now and then he would sit for a moment with his pen poised in the air , searching his memory for a word . 
But the words came to him easily , and before an hour was over he had handed his letter to Mr. Thumble . 
Mr. Crawley was standing up , as also was Mrs. Crawley . 
As far as this morning 's work had as yet gone , it seemed to him that Mr. Crawley had had the play all to himself , and that he , Mr. Thumble , had not had his innings . 
`` Mr. Crawley , '' he said , `` hitherto I have listened to you patiently . '' 
`` Nay , '' said Mr. Crawley , smiling , `` you have indeed been patient , and I thank you ; but my words have been written , not spoken . '' 
Mr. Crawley , still smiling , still having in his eyes the unwonted triumph which had lighted them up , paused a moment , and then answered him . 
Mr. Thumble , when he heard this , began to be sure that Mr. Crawley was mad ; he knew of no angles that could ride about the Barsetshire lanes on grey ponies . 
In speaking these last words he stood with the door in his hand , and Mr. Thumble , not knowing how to increase or even to maintain his firmness , thought it best to pass out , and mount his grey pony and ride away . 
Everybody now said that the evidence was so strong against Mr. Crawley as to leave hardly a doubt of his guilt . 
Even the ladies in Silverbridge were beginning to give up his cause , acknowledging that the money could not have come rightfully into his hands , and excusing him on the plea of partial insanity . 
The ladies of Silverbridge could find nothing better to say for him than that ; and when young Mr. Walker remarked that such little mistakes were the customary causes of men being taken to prison , the ladies of Silverbridge did not know how to answer him . 
It had come to be their opinion that Mr. Crawley was affected with a partial lunacy , which ought to be forgiven in one to whom the world had been so cruel ; and when young Mr. Walker endeavoured to explain to them that a man must be sane altogether or mad altogether , and that Mr. Crawley must , if sane , be locked up as a thief , and if mad , locked up as a madman , they sighed , and were convinced that until the world should have been improved by a new infusion of romance , and a stronger feeling of poetic justice , Mr. John Walker was right . 
It might well be that he could not live in Barsetshire after he had married Mr. Crawley 's daughter . 
He had inherited from his father enough of that longing for ascendancy among those around him to make him feel that in such circumstances he would be wretched . 
But he would be made more wretched by the self-knowledge that he had behaved badly to the girl he loved ; and the world beyond Barsetshire was open to him . 
He would take her with him to Canada , to New Zealand , or to some other far-away country , and there begin his life again . 
Should his father choose to punish him for so doing by disinheriting him , they would be poor enough ; but , in his present frame of mind , the major was able to regard such poverty as honourable and not altogether disagreeable . 
He had been out shooting all day at Chaldicotes , with Dr. Thorne and a party who were staying in the house there , and had been talking about Mr. Crawley , first with one man and then with another . 
Lord Lufton had been there , and young Gresham from Greshamsbury , and Mr. Robarts the clergyman , and news had come among them of the attempt made by the bishop to stop Mr. Crawley from preaching . 
Mr. Robarts had been of opinion that Mr. Crawley should have given way ; and Lord Lufton , who shared his mother 's intense dislike of everything that came from the palace , had sworn that he was right to resist . 
The sympathy of the whole party had been with Mr. Crawley ; but they had all agreed that he had stolen the money . 
But Crawley would not give way , and so far I respect the man ; for , as a matter of course , whatever the bishop did , or attempted to do , he would do with an extreme of bad taste , probably with gross ignorance as to his own duty and as to the duty of the man under him . 
I am told that on the first day Crawley turned out of his house the messenger sent to him , -- some stray clergyman whom Mrs. Proudie keeps about the house ; and that on the Sunday the stairs to the reading-desk and pulpit were occupied by a lot of brickmakers , among whom the parson from Barchester did not venture to attempt to make his way , although he was fortified by the presence of one of the cathedral vergers and by one of the palace footmen , I can hardly believe about the verger and the footman . 
I pity Crawley from my heart . 
Though the letter was full of Mr. Crawley and his affairs there was not a word in it about Grace . 
Major Grantly perfectly well understood his father 's anxiety to carry his point without seeming to allude to the disagreeable subject . 
`` My father is very clever , '' he said to himself , `` very clever , But he is n't so clever but one can see how clever he is . '' 
On the next day he went into Silverbridge , intending to call on Miss Prettyman . 
He had not quite made up his mind what he would say to Miss Prettyman ; nor was he called upon to do so , as he never got as far as that lady 's house . 
While walking up the High Street he saw Mrs. Thorne in her carriage , and , as a matter of course , he stopped to speak to her . 
He knew Mrs. Thorne quite as intimately as he did her husband , and liked her quite as well , `` Major Grantly , '' she said , speaking out loud to him , half across the street ; `` I was very angry with you yesterday . 
But do tell me , Major Grantly , what are we to think about this poor Mr. Crawley ? 
It was so good of you to be one of his bailsmen . '' 
`` He would have found twenty in Silverbridge , if he had wanted them . '' 
`` And do you hear that he has defied the bishop ? 
I do so like him for that . 
Then Major Grantly did get into the carriage , and , before he got out again , he had told Mrs. Thorne the whole story of his love . 
She listened to him with the closest attention ; only interrupting him now and then with little words , intended to signify her approval . 
He , as he told his tale , did not look her in the face , but sat with his eyes fixed upon her muff . 
`` And now , '' he said , glancing up at her almost for the first time as he finished his speech , `` and now , Mrs. Thorne , what am I to do ? '' 
`` Marry her , of course , '' said she , raising her hand aloft and bringing it down heavily upon his knee as she gave her decisive reply . 
`` H -- sh -- h , '' he exclaimed , looking back in dismay towards the servants . 
But Mr. Thumble had gone over , taking his gown and surplice with him , on the Sunday morning , and had intimated to Mr. Crawley his intention of performing the service . 
Mr. Crawley , in answer to this , had assured Mr. Thumble that he would not be allowed to open his mouth in the church ; and Mr. Thumble , not seeing his way to any further successful action , had contented himself with attending the services in his surplice , making thereby a silent protest that he , and not Mr. Crawley , ought to have been in the reading-desk and the pulpit . 
`` Mr. Crawley has been contumacious , -- very contumacious indeed . '' 
After much thought he resolved that he would again write to Mr. Crawley , and summon him to appear at the palace . 
In doing this he would at any rate be doing something . 
And though Mr. Crawley would , as he thought , decline to obey the order , something would be gained even by that disobedience . 
So he wrote his summons , -- sitting very comfortless and all alone on that Sunday evening , -- dating his letter , however , for the following day : -- `` Reverend Sir , Palace , December 20 , 186 -- . 
`` My dear , '' he said , when he did again encounter his wife that night , `` I have written to Mr. Crawley , and I thought I might as well bring up the copy of my letter . '' 
`` I suppose he will not come , '' said the bishop . 
`` I think he will , '' said Mrs. Proudie , `` and I trust that we may be able to convince him that obedience will be his best course . 
He will be more humble-minded here than at Hogglestock . '' 
But though she understood ordinary human nature , it may be that she did not understand Mr. Crawley 's nature . 
But she was at any rate right in her idea as to Mr. Crawley 's immediate reply . 
`` My Lord '' -- said Mr. Crawley . 
`` Of course I shall go , '' he had said to his wife as soon as he had had time to read the letter , and make known to her the contents . 
Now Hogglestock was fifteen miles from Barchester , and Mr. Crawley was , as his wife well knew , by no means fitted in his present state for great physical exertion . 
But from the tone in which he had replied to her , she well knew that it would not avail for her to remonstrate at the moment . 
He had walked more than thirty miles in a day since they had been living at Hogglestock , and she did not doubt but that it might be possible for him to do it again . 
Any scheme , which she might be able to devise for saving him from so terrible a journey in the middle of winter , must be pondered over silently , and brought to bear , if not slyly , at least deftly , and without discussion . 
She made no reply therefore when he declared that on the following day he would walk to Barchester and back , -- with the Lord 's aid ; nor did she see , or ask to see the note which he sent to the bishop . 
When the messenger was gone , Mr. Crawley was all alert , looking forward with evident glee to his encounter with the bishop , -- snorting like a racehorse at the expected triumph of the coming struggle . 
And he read much Greek with Jane on that afternoon , pouring into her young ears , almost with joyous rapture , his appreciation of the glory and the pathos and the humanity , as also of the awful tragedy , of the story of OEdipus . 
His very soul was on fire at the idea of clutching the weak bishop in his hand , and crushing him with his strong grasp . 
Mr. Mangle , the farmer , as it happened , was going to-morrow morning in his tax-cart as far as Framley Mill , and would be delighted if Mr. Crawley would take a seat . 
He must remain at Framley the best part of the afternoon , and hoped that Mr. Crawley would take a seat back again . 
Mr. Crawley was instantly placed upon his guard , like an animal that sees the bait and suspects the trap . 
Had he been told that farmer Mangle was going all the way to Barchester , nothing would have induced him to get into the cart . 
He would have felt sure that farmer Mangle had been persuaded to pity him in his poverty and his strait , and he would sooner have started to walk to London than have put a foot upon the step of the cart . 
But this lift half way did look to him as though it were really fortuitous . 
His wife could hardly have been cunning enough to persuade the farmer to go to Framley , conscious that the trap would have been suspected had the bait been made more full . 
said Mr. Crawley , The farmer scratched his head , remembering all Mrs. Crawley 's injunctions , and awkwardly acknowledged that to be sure his own business with the miller was very pressing . 
Then Mr. Crawley descended , terribly suspicious , and went on his journey . 
But Mr. Crawley would make no promise . 
He bade the farmer not wait for him . 
And he , Mr. Crawley , would be humble , whereas the bishop would be very proud . 
And the bishop would be in his own arm-chair , -- the cock in his own farmyard , while he , Mr. Crawley , would be seated afar off , in the cold extremity of the room , with nothing of outward circumstances to assist him , -- a man called thither to undergo censure . 
`` What , Crawley ! 
`` But , Crawley , do let me send you over . 
demanded Mr. Crawley , in an indignant tone . 
Then he stalked on , clutching and crushing in his hand the bishop , and the bishop 's wife , and the whole diocese , -- and all the Church of England . 
So he walked up and down under the towers of the cathedral , and cooled himself , and looked up at the pleasant plate-glass in the windows of the house of his friend the dean , and told himself how , in their college days , he and the dean had been quite equal , -- quite equal , except that by the voices of all qualified judges in the university , he , Mr. Crawley , had been acknowledged to be the riper scholar . 
And now the Mr. Arabin of those days was Dean of Barchester , -- travelling abroad luxuriously at this moment for his delight , while he , Crawley , was perpetual curate at Hogglestock , and had now walked into Barchester at the command of the bishop , because he was suspected of having stolen twenty pounds ! 
I think , however , that a bishop 's wife may enjoy the privilege without such heavy attendant expense ; otherwise the man who opened the bishop 's door to Mr. Crawley would hardly have been so ornamented . 
`` My name is Mr. Crawley , '' said our friend . 
`` I am not bound to carry with me my name printed on a ticket , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
The servant , somewhat awed by the stranger 's manner , brought the pen and paper , and Mr. Crawley wrote his name : -- `` The Rev. Joshua Crawley , M.A. , Perpetual Curate of Hogglestock . '' 
He was then ushered into a waiting-room , but , to his disappointment , was not kept there waiting long . 
Within three minutes he was ushered into the bishop 's study , and into the presence of the two great luminaries of the diocese . 
He was at first somewhat disconcerted by finding Mrs. Proudie in the room . 
No one ever on seeing Mr. Crawley took him to be a happy man , or a weak man , or an ignorant man , or a wise man . 
`` You are very punctual , Mr. Crawley , '' said the bishop . 
Mr. Crawley simply bowed his head , still keeping his hands beneath his cloak . 
Mr. Crawley had not seated himself , but had placed himself in front of a chair at the extreme end of the room , -- resolved that he would not use it unless he were duly asked . 
`` Thank you , my lord , '' he said , `` I am warm with walking , and , if you please , will avoid the fire . '' 
`` You have not walked , Mr. Crawley ? '' 
Now this was a matter which Mr. Crawley certainly did not mean to discuss with the bishop . 
It might probably be necessary to keep Mr. Crawley at a distance , and therefore she had remained in the background . 
But Mr. Crawley seemed to be disposed to keep himself in the background , and therefore she could speak . 
`` I hope your wife and children are well , Mr. Crawley , '' she said . 
`` That is much to be thankful for , Mr. Crawley . '' 
But as he did so Mr. Crawley , who had seated himself on an intimation that he was expected to sit down , rose also , and the bishop found that he would thus lose his expected vantage . 
`` Will you not be seated , Mr. Crawley ? '' 
Mr. Crawley smiled , but stood his ground . 
Then the bishop returned to his arm-chair , and Mr. Crawley also sat down again . 
`` Mr. Crawley , '' began the bishop , `` this matter which came the other day before the magistrates at Silverbridge has been a most unfortunate affair . 
Mr. Crawley had made up his mind how far the bishop should be allowed to go without a rebuke . 
It certainly was Mr. Crawley 's wish that the bishop should entangle himself . 
Mr. Crawley had now made up his mind that as long as it was possible he would ignore the presence of Mrs. Proudie altogether ; and , therefore , he made no sign that he had heard the latter remark . 
`` That is a matter of opinion , my lord , '' said Mr. Crawley , who at that moment thought of a crisis which had come in the life of another clergyman in the diocese of Barchester , with the circumstances of which he had by chance been made acquainted . 
Mr. Crawley , who understood fighting , did not think that the time had yet come for striking a blow , so he simply bowed again . 
`` A most unfortunate position , Mr. Crawley , '' continued the bishop . 
Mr. Crawley 's black brow became a little blacker as he heard the word , but still he ignored the woman . 
He not only did not speak , but did not turn his eye upon her . 
`` And they were right , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
Probably , '' said the bishop , whose eloquence was somewhat disturbed by Mr. Crawley 's ready acquiescence . 
`` There are no criminal laws , my lord , '' said Mr. Crawley ; `` but to such laws as there are we are all amenable , -- your lordship and I alike . '' 
`` You would have been put in prison , Mr. Crawley , because the magistrates were of opinion that you had taken Mr. Soames 's cheque , '' said Mrs. Proudie . 
On this occasion he did look at her . 
He turned one glance upon her from under his eyebrows , but he did not speak . 
`` Nothing whatever , my lord , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
`` The police will look to that , Mr. Crawley . '' 
`` Under these circumstances , '' continued the bishop , `` looking to the welfare of your parish , to the welfare of the diocese , and allow me to say , Mr. Crawley , to the welfare of yourself also -- '' `` And especially to the souls of the people , '' said Mrs. Proudie . 
`` Yes ; -- and looking of course to the religious interests of your people , Mr. Crawley , I came to the conclusion that it would be expedient that you should cease your ministrations for awhile . '' 
The bishop paused , and Mr. Crawley bowed his head . 
Mr. Crawley had raised his hand , with his finger out , preparatory to answering the bishop . 
But as Mrs. Proudie had spoken he dropped his finger and was silent . 
`` Opposition to just authority can not be a duty , Mr. Crawley . '' 
`` Opposition to usurped authority is an imperative duty , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
Then there was silence for a while ; when , as Mr. Crawley made no reply , the lady repeated her question . 
But Mr. Crawley did not please to answer her question . 
The bishop again shook his head and looked so unutterably miserable that a smile came across Mr. Crawley 's face . 
Such was her idea of Mr. Crawley 's conduct to her , while she was fingering the papers , -- simply because Mr. Crawley would not speak to her . 
`` I was determined that I would do my duty at Hogglestock , as long as I might be left there to do it , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
It occurred to us , -- to me and Mrs. Proudie , -- '' `` I will tell Mr. Crawley just now what has occurred to me , said Mrs. Proudie . 
And I am sure that he will take it in good part . 
It occurred to me , Mr. Crawley , that your first letter might have been written in haste . '' 
It was a most disagreeable mission for any gentleman , Mr. Crawley . '' 
`` And you refused him permission to obey the instructions which I had given him ! 
You would not let him read from your desk , or preach from your pulpit . '' 
Mr. Crawley waited a moment , thinking that the bishop might perhaps speak again ; but as he did not , but sat expectant as though he had finished his discourse , and now expected a reply , Mr. Crawley got up from his seat and drew near to the table . 
`` My lord , '' he began , `` it has all been just as you have said . 
`` It may well be so , '' continued Mr. Crawley . 
`` Peace , woman , '' Mr. Crawley said , addressing her at last . 
He had already begun to perceive that Mr. Crawley was a man who had better be left to take care of the souls at Hogglestock , at any rate till the trial should come on . 
`` Madam , '' said Mr. Crawley , `` you should not interfere in these matters . 
And before either of them could speak again , he was out of the room , and through the hall , and beyond the gate , and standing beneath the towers of the cathedral . 
Yes , he had , he thought , in truth crushed the bishop . 
But farmer Mangle was still at the mill , waiting in expectation that Mr. Crawley might come to him . 
`` I think we need fear no further disturbance , '' Mr. Crawley said to his wife , -- and there was no further disturbance . 
On the day after his walk from Framley to Barchester , and from Barchester back to Hogglestock , Mr. Crawley had risen not much the worse for his labour , and had gradually given to his wife a full account of what had taken place . 
`` A poor weak man , '' he said , speaking of the bishop . 
I will repay , ' saith the Lord , '' answered Mr. Crawley . 
As he spoke thus he put both hands up to his head , leaning forward as though in anxious thought , -- as though he were striving to bring his mind to bear with accuracy upon past events . 
`` It could not have been mine , and yet -- '' Then he sat silent , and made no effort to continue his speech . 
-- said his wife , encouraging him to proceed . 
If she could only learn the real truth , she thought that she might perhaps yet save him , with assistance from their friends . 
These last words he spoke very slowly , in a whisper , -- without any excitement , -- indeed with a composure which was horrible to witness . 
`` I kept the road , and walked the whole way , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
Nor did he think that the fib he was telling was at all incompatible with the Holy Sacrament in which he had just taken a part . 
It had been suggested to Mr. Robarts , the parson of Framley , that he should endeavour to induce his old acquaintance , Mr. Crawley , to employ a lawyer to defend him at his trial , and Mr. Robarts had not forgotten the commission which he had undertaken . 
In the first place Mr. Crawley was a man whom it had not at any time been easy to advise on matters private to himself ; and , in the next place , this was a matter on which it was very hard to speak to the man implicated , let him be who he would . 
Mr. Robarts had come round to the generally accepted idea that Mr. Crawley had obtained possession of the cheque illegally , -- acquitting his friend in his own mind of theft , simply by supposing that he was wool-gathering when the cheque came in his way . 
But in speaking to Mr. Crawley , it would be necessary , -- so he thought , -- to pretend a conviction that Mr. Crawley was as innocent in fact as in intention . 
He had almost made up his mind to dash at the subject when he met Mr. Crawley walking through Framley to Barchester , but he had abstained , chiefly because Mr. Crawley had been too quick for him , and had got away . 
After that he resolved that it would be almost useless for him to go to work unless he should be provided with a lawyer ready and willing to undertake the task ; and as he was not so provided at present , he made up his mind that he would go into Silverbridge , and see Mr. Walker , the attorney there . 
So Mr. Robarts got into his gig , and drove himself into Silverbridge , passing very close to Mr. Crawley 's house on his road . 
He drove at once to Mr. Walker 's office , and on arriving there found that the attorney was not at that moment within . 
Mr. Robarts said that he had wished to see Mr. Walker about that poor fellow Crawley . 
About Mr. Crawley is it ? 
But , Mr. Robarts , I should have thought a deal about it before I should have brought such a man as Mr. Crawley before a bench of magistrates on that charge . '' 
`` Mr. Crawley is my friend , and of course I want to assist him . 
I was under a great obligation to Mr. Crawley once , and I wish to befriend him , whether he took the money or not . 
`` If you ask me , I think he did take it . '' 
`` I think he knew it was not his own when he took it . 
You see I do n't think he meant to use it when he took it . 
He perhaps had some queer idea that Soames had been hard on him , or his lordship , and that the money was fairly his due . 
`` If you could show , you know , that Crawley has got a bee in his bonnet ; that the mens sana is not there , in short ; -- I think you might manage to have the trial postponed . '' 
`` But then somebody must take charge of his living . '' 
And then , -- after the assizes , Mr. Crawley might come to his senses ; and I think , -- mind it 's only an idea , -- but I think the committal might be quashed . 
It would have been temporary insanity , and , though mind I do n't give my word for it , I think he might go on and keep his living . 
Dean Arabin and Mr. Crawley had been intimate friends in early life , and Dean Arabin knew more of him than did any man , at least in those parts . 
`` And in the meantime shall I say anything to Mr. Crawley , myself , about employing a lawyer ? '' 
`` I do n't like Crawley the less for speaking his mind free to the bishop , '' said the attorney , laughing . 
`` And he 'll speak it free to you too , Mr. Robarts . '' 
Borleys and Bonstock are capital people to push a fellow through on a charge of horse-stealing , or to squeeze a man for a little money ; but they are not the people for Mr. Crawley in such a case as this . 
There was then a discussion between them whether Mr. Robarts should go at once to Mr. Mason ; but it was decided at last that he should see Mr. Crawley and also write to the dean before he did so . 
There he found Mrs. Walker and her daughter , and Miss Anne Prettyman , who had just looked in , full of the story of Mr. Crawley 's walk to Barchester . 
And it seemed that Mr. Crawley had been watched as he passed through the close out of Barchester . 
A minor canon had seen him , and had declared that he was going at the rate of a hunt , swinging his arms on high and speaking very loud , though , -- as the minor canon said with regret , -- the words were hardly audible . 
Mr. Crawley 's old hat , and short rusty cloak , and dirty boots , had been duly observed and chronicled by the minor canon ; and Mr. Thumble had been enabled to put together a not altogether false picture of what had occurred . 
I wish I could have been hidden behind a curtain in the palace , to hear what Mr. Crawley said to her . '' 
Only fancy , poor Mr. Crawley walking all the way from Hogglestock to Barchester and back ; -- and I am told he hardly had a shoe to his foot ! 
Then Mr. Robarts escaped from the ladies in Mr. Walker 's house , who , as it seemed to him , were touching upon dangerous ground , and went back to the yard of the George Inn for his gig , -- the George and Vulture it was properly called , and was the house in which the magistrates had sat when they committed Mr. Crawley for trial . 
`` Footed it every inch of the way , blowed if he did n't , '' the ostler was saying to a gentleman 's groom , whom Mr. Robarts recognized to be the servant of his friend , Major Grantly ; and Mr. Robarts knew that they also were talking about Mr. Crawley . 
Everybody in the county was talking about Mr. Crawley . 
Lady Lufton , the dowager , was full of it , being firmly convinced that Mr. Crawley was innocent , because the bishop was supposed to regard him as guilty . 
But Mr. Robarts , as he heard the two grooms talking about Mr. Crawley , began to feel that Mr. Crawley had achieved at least celebrity . 
The groom touched his hat as Mr. Robarts walked up . 
It was undoubtedly the fact that Mr. Crawley was recognized to be a gentleman by all who knew him , high or low , rich or poor , by those who thought well of him and by those who thought ill . 
Thinking still of all which he had heard , Mr. Robarts found himself at Mr. Crawley 's gate at Hogglestock . 
Mr. Robarts was not altogether easy in his mind as he approached Mr. Crawley 's house . 
He was a little afraid of Mr. Crawley , acknowledging tacitly to himself that the man had a power of ascendancy with which he would hardly be able to cope successfully . 
In old days he had once been rebuked by Mr. Crawley , and had been cowed by the rebuke ; and though there was no touch of rancour in his heart on this account , no slightest remaining venom , -- but rather increased respect and friendship , -- still he was unable to overcome the remembrance of the scene in which the perpetual curate of Hogglestock had undoubtedly had the mastery of him . 
Mr. Crawley would be in directly , she said . 
And , even in his own house , Mr. Crawley affected a mock humility , as though , either through his own debasement , or because of the superior station of the other clergyman , he were not entitled to put himself on an equal footing with his visitor . 
He would not have shaken hands with Mr. Robarts , -- intending to indicate that he did not presume to do so while the present accusation was hanging over him , -- had not the action been forced upon him . 
There were many clergymen in the country with incomes as small as that which had fallen to the lot of Mr. Crawley , but they managed to get on without displaying their sores as Mr. Crawley displayed his . 
They did not wear their old rusty cloaks with all that ostentatious bitterness of poverty which seemed to belong to that garment when displayed on Mr. Crawley 's shoulders . 
`` I never have had one myself , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
`` I just wanted to say a few words to you , Crawley , '' he said , `` and if I am not occupying too much of your time -- '' `` My time is altogether at your disposal . 
After all that he had heard of the visit paid by Mr. Crawley to the palace , -- of the venom displayed by Mrs. Proudie on that occasion , and of the absolute want of subordination to episcopal authority which Mr. Crawley himself was supposed to have shown , -- Mr. Robarts did feel it hard that his friend the archdeacon should be snubbed in this way because he was deficient in reverence for his bishop ! 
`` I thought , Crawley , '' he said , `` that you yourself were inclined to dispute orders coming to you from the palace . 
said Mr. Crawley . 
And then came a frown upon his brow , and a gleam of fire into his eyes , which effectually banished that look of extreme humility which he had assumed . 
Mr. Crawley shrugged his shoulders , opened his hands a little and then closed them , and bowed his head . 
He could not have declared more clearly by any words that he differed altogether from Mr. Robarts , and that as the subject was one so peculiarly his own he had a right to expect that his opinion should be allowed to prevail against that of any other person . 
Mr. Crawley again bowed his head . 
Mr. Crawley , as he had spoken , had in his vehemence risen from his seat , and Mr. Robarts was also standing . 
`` Then tell the archdeacon , '' said Mr. Crawley , `` that I will have none of his advice . 
`` And if I be guilty , '' continued Mr. Crawley , altogether ignoring the interruption , except by the repetition of his words , and a slight raising of his voice , `` I will not add to my guilt by hiring any one to prove a falsehood or to disprove a truth . '' 
`` I 'm sorry that you should say so , Mr. Crawley . '' 
Then he turned round with his face to the wall and his back to his visitor , and so remained till Mr. Robarts had left him . 
Then he had been brought to acknowledge that Mr. Walker was right , and that Crawley was certainly mad . 
He was so mad , so far removed from the dominion of sound sense , that no jury could say that he was guilty and that he ought to be punished for his guilt . 
And , as he so resolved , he could not but ask himself the question , whether the charge of the parish ought to be left in the hands of such a man ? 
It was known to all who knew them both , that the dean and Mr. Crawley had lived together on the closest intimacy at college , and that that friendship had been maintained through life ; -- though , from the peculiarity of Mr. Crawley 's character , the two had not been much together of late years . 
Seeing how things were going now , and hearing how pitiful was the plight in which Mr. Crawley was placed , the dean would , no doubt , feel it to be his duty to hasten his return to England . 
He was believed to be at this moment in Jerusalem , and it would be long before a letter could reach him ; but there still wanted three months to the assizes , and his return might be probably effected before the end of February . 
Then he told Mrs. Robarts what Mr. Walker had said ; also the message which Mr. Crawley had sent to the archdeacon . 
That had been Mrs. Thorne 's advice ; and though Major Grantly had no idea of making the journey so rapidly as the lady had proposed , still he thought that he would make it before long , and follow the advice in spirit if not to the letter . 
Mrs. Thorne had asked him if it was fair that the girl should be punished because of the father 's fault ; and the idea had been sweet to him that the infliction or non-infliction of such punishment should be in his hands . 
`` Only think , '' exclaimed Mrs. Grantly , `` when Eleanor wrote she had not heard of that affair of poor Mr. Crawley 's . '' 
`` Does she say anything about him ? '' 
The two girls were making a set of new shirts for Mr. Crawley . 
And afterwards she had progressed diligently with the fabrication of Mr. Crawley 's shirts , as though she had no such letter in her pocket . 
Mrs. Dale had held that he was not so bound , urging that the unfortunate position in which Mr. Crawley was placed was so calamitous to all connected with him , as to justify any man , not absolutely engaged , in abandoning the thoughts of such a marriage . 
`` There are circumstances at present which make it almost impossible that I should go to Mr. Crawley and ask his permission to address his daughter . 
`` He is , I believe , in such a state of mental distress as to be hardly capable of giving me a considerate answer . 
And I should not know how to speak to him , or how not to speak to him , about this unfortunate affair . 
`` I believe Mr. Crawley is a cousin of yours ? '' 
`` His wife is my mother 's first-cousin . 
Of course I have heard of this charge that has been made against him . 
`` I do n't suppose he can have been guilty , '' said Johnny . 
I heard all the evidence against him . '' 
`` I live near them in Barsetshire , and I am one of his bailsmen . '' 
I fancy that the cheque was left in his house by accident , and that it got into his hands he did n't know how , and that when he used it he thought it was his . '' 
`` He is very odd , you know . '' 
`` The great cruelty is , '' said the major , `` that whatever may be the result , the punishment will fall so heavily upon his wife and daughters . 
`` He 's a good sort of a fellow after all , '' he said to himself when the gig had passed on . 
`` He would n't have talked in that way if he had meant to hang back . '' 
Mr. crawley had declared to Mr. Robarts , that he would summon no legal aid to his assistance at the coming trial . 
`` Tell the archdeacon , '' he had said , `` that I will have none of his advice . '' 
This coming trial was ever present to Mr. Crawley 's mind , and though , when driven to discuss the subject , he would speak of it with high spirit , as he had done both to the bishop and to Mr. Robarts , yet in his long hours of privacy , or when alone with his wife , his spirit was anything but high . 
Mr. Crawley had not been up to London once since they had been settled at Hogglestock , and this sudden resolution on his part frightened his wife . 
The Mr. Toogood of those days , who had been Mrs. Crawley 's uncle , and the father of Mrs. Eames and grandfather of our friend Johnny Eames , had been much angered by some correspondence which had grown up between him and Mr. Crawley , and from that day there had been a cessation of all intercourse between the families . 
`` If you do not wish me to apply to your cousin , say so , and there shall be an end of it , '' said Mr. Crawley in an angry tone . 
Mr. Crawley as he said this was remembering the fact that he was a clergyman of the Church of England , and that he had a rank of his own in the country , which , did he ever do such a thing as go out to dinner in company , would establish for him a certain right of precedence ; whereas this attorney , of whom he was speaking , was , so to say , nobody in the eyes of the world . 
In answer to this , Mr. Toogood wrote back as follows : -- `` Dear Mr. Crawley , I will be at my office all Thursday morning next from ten to two , and will take care that you sha n't be kept waiting for me above ten minutes . 
Mr. Crawley , in his first plan , proposed that he should go up by night mail train , travelling in the third class , having walked over to Silverbridge to meet it ; that he should than walk about London from 5 A.M. to 10 A.M. , and afterwards come down by an afternoon train to which a third class was also attached . 
But at last his wife persuaded him that such a task as that , performed in the middle of the winter , would be enough to kill any man , and that , if attempted , it would certainly kill him ; and he consented at last to sleep the night in town , -- being specially moved thereto by discovering that he could , in conformity with this scheme , get in and out of the train at a station considerably nearer to him than Silverbridge , and that he could get a return-ticket at a third-class fare . 
Strange stories about Mr. Crawley had reached Mr. Toogood 's household , and that Maria , the mention of whose Christian name had been so offensive to the clergyman , had begged her husband not to be a moment late . 
`` Perhaps , sir , you are Mr. Crawley ? '' 
`` That is my name , sir , '' said Mr. Crawley , taking off his hat and bowing low , `` and I am here by appointment to meet Mr. Toogood , the solicitor , whose name I see afixed upon the door-post . '' 
`` I am Mr. Toogood , the solicitor , and I hope I see you quite well , Mr. Crawley . '' 
`` Here we are , Mr. Crawley , and pray take a chair . 
`` I 've twelve of 'em living , Mr. Crawley , -- from eighteen years , the eldest , -- a girl , down to eighteen months the youngest , -- a boy , and they go in and out , boy and girl , boy and girl , like the cogs of a wheel . 
`` You have many mercies for which you should indeed be thankful , '' said Mr. Crawley , gravely . 
The children have it pretty much their own way with us , Mr. Crawley . '' 
By this time Mr. Crawley was almost beside himself , and was altogether at a loss how to bring in the matter on which he wished to speak . 
He had expected to find a man who in the hurry of London business might perhaps just manage to spare him five minutes , -- who would grapple instantly with the subject that was to be discussed between them , would speak to him half-a-dozen hard words of wisdom , and would then dismiss him and turn on the instant to other matters of important business ; -- but here was an easy familiar fellow , who seemed to have nothing on earth to do , and who at this first meeting had taken advantage of a distant family connexion to tell him everything about the affairs of his own household . 
What was Mr. Crawley to say to a man who had taught his own children to call their mother Thais ? 
Of Thais Mr. Crawley did know something , and he forgot to remember that perhaps Mr. Toogood knew less . 
Mr. Crawley , in his present frame of mind , could not sit and talk about Thais all day . 
`` Sir , '' he said , `` the picture of your home is very pleasant , and I presume that plenty abounds there . '' 
With twelve of 'em , Mr. Crawley , I need n't tell you they are not all going to have castles and parks of their own , unless they can get 'em off their own bats . 
`` Perhaps , sir , as your time is , no doubt , precious -- '' `` Just at this time of the day we do n't care so much about it , Mr. Crawley ; and one does n't catch a new cousin every day , you know . '' 
Now , Mr. Crawley , let me hear what it is that I can do for you . '' 
`` I must first crave your attention to an unfortunate preliminary , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
Here Mr. Crawley paused and stood up before the attorney with his hands crossed one upon the other , bending low , as though calling attention to the poorness of his raiment . 
Then Mr. Crawley began and told the story . 
When Mr. Crawley came to his own statement that the cheque had been paid to him by Mr. Soames , and went on to say that that statement had been false , -- `` I told him that , but I told him so wrongly , '' and then paused , thinking that the lawyer would ask some question , Mr. Toogood simply said , `` Go on ; go on . 
And he merely nodded his head when Mr. Crawley spoke of his second statement , that the money had come from the dean . 
`` We had been bound together by close ties of early familiarity , '' said Mr. Crawley , `` and in former years our estates in life were the same . 
Whether it be better to eat -- the bread of charity , -- or not to eat bread at all , I , for myself , have no doubt , '' he said ; `` but when the want strikes one 's wife and children , and the charity strikes only oneself , then there is a doubt . '' 
When he spoke thus , Mr. Toogood got up , and thrusting his hands into his waistcoat pockets walked about the room , exclaiming , `` By George , by George , by George ! '' 
`` You were wrong there , Mr. Crawley . 
When Mr. Crawley was told that madness would be laid to his charge if he did not do as he was bid , his face became very black , and assumed something of that look of determined obstinacy which it had worn when he was standing in the presence of the bishop and Mrs. Proudie . 
`` It may be so , '' he said . 
`` Mr. Toogood , '' said Mr. Crawley , seeing the attorney 's hesitation , `` I declare to you before God , that my only object will be to enable the jury to know about this sad matter all that I know myself . 
`` We had already come to a conclusion on that matter , as I thought , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
`` Mr. Crawley , where did you get the cheque ? 
`` You are too touchy about it all , Mr. Crawley . '' 
Mr. Crawley again paused before he answered . 
He sat thinking of it for some minutes without a word , -- perhaps for five minutes , though the time seemed to be much longer to Mr. Crawley , who was , however , determined that he would not interrupt him . 
Perhaps , after all , this scheme of Mr. Crawley 's , -- or rather the mode of defence on which he had resolved without any scheme , -- might be the best of which the case admitted . 
It might be well that he should go into court without a lawyer . 
He did believe Mr. Crawley to be innocent , but he was not so sure of it as his words would seem to imply . 
Nevertheless he repeated the words again ; -- `` as innocent as I am . '' 
`` I do n't know , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
Mr. Crawley opposed this scheme for some time , but at last consented to the proposition . 
`` And I 'll tell you what , Mr. Crawley ; I am very fond of cathedrals , I am indeed ; and I have long wanted to see Barchester . 
Mr. Toogood looked into Mr. Crawley 's eyes as he said this , to see if his iniquity were detected , but the perpetual curate was altogether innocent in these matters . 
Mr. Crawley said that Mr. Walker was doing so . 
Well , Mr. Crawley , if nothing else comes out between this and that , -- nothing , that is , that shall clear your memory about that unfortunate bit of paper , you must simply tell your story to the jury as you 've told it to me . 
`` Of course I 've only heard one side , Mr. Crawley . '' 
Mr. Crawley said that he was quite sure he could not do that , and then having tendered reiterated thanks to his new friend in words which were touching in spite of their old-fashioned gravity , he took his leave , and walked back again to the public-house at Paddington . 
He returned home to Hogglestock on the same afternoon , reaching that place at nine in the evening . 
There was great dismay in Barchester Palace after the visit paid to the bishop and Mrs. Proudie by that terrible clerical offender , Mr. Crawley . 
It will be remembered , perhaps , how he had defied the bishop with spoken words , and how he had defied the bishop 's wife by speaking no words to her . 
For the moment , no doubt , Mr. Crawley had the best of it . 
Mrs. Proudie acknowledged to herself that this was the case ; but as she was a woman who had never yet succumbed to an enemy , who had never , -- if on such an occasion I may be allowed to use a schoolboy 's slang , -- taken a licking from any one , it was not likely that Mr. Crawley would be long allowed to enjoy his triumph in peace . 
It would be odd if all the weight of the palace would not be able to silence a wretch of a perpetual curate who had already been committed to take his trial for thieving ; -- and Mrs. Proudie was determined that all the weight of the palace should be used . 
As for the bishop , though he was not as angry as his wife , he was quite as unhappy , and therefore quite as hostile to Mr. Crawley ; and was fully conscious that there could be no peace for him now until Mr. Crawley should be crushed . 
If only the assizes would come at once , and get him condemned out of the way , what a blessed thing it would be ! 
But unluckily it still wanted three months to the assizes , and during those three months Mr. Crawley would be at large and subject only to episcopal authority . 
During that time he could not be silenced by the arm of the civil law . 
His wife was not long in expressing her opinion after Mr. Crawley had left the palace . 
In this manner she did come to understand , before the arrival of Mr. Chadwick , that her husband could take no legal steps towards silencing Mr. Crawley until a commission of clergymen had been appointed to inquire into the matter , and that that commission should be headed by the rural dean within the limits of whose rural deanery the parish of Hogglestock was situated , or by some beneficed parochial clergyman of repute in the neighbourhood . 
Now the rural dean was Dr. Tempest of Silverbridge , -- who had held that position before the coming of Dr. Proudie to the diocese ; and there had grown up in the bosom of Mrs. Proudie a strong feeling that undue mercy had been shown to Mr. Crawley by the magistrates of Silverbridge , of whom Dr. Tempest had been one . 
In such language Mrs. Proudie had spoken of the affair at Silverbridge , and having once committed herself to such an opinion , of course she thought that Dr. Tempest would go through fire and water , -- would omit no stretch of what little judicial power might be committed to his hands , -- with the view of opposing his bishop and maintaining the culprit in his position . 
Mr. Chadwick had been sent for with reference to Mr. Crawley , and he was driven , -- absolutely driven , to propose to his lawyer that this commission of inquiry should be issued . 
`` This is a very sad affair about Mr. Crawley , '' said the bishop . 
Mr. Chadwick was to prepare a letter to Dr. Tempest , for the bishop 's signature , in which the doctor should be requested , as the rural dean to whom Mr. Crawley was subject , to hold a commission of five to inquire into Mr. Crawley 's conduct . 
The letter was to explain to Dr. Tempest that the bishop , moved by his solicitude for the souls of the people of Hogglestock , had endeavoured , `` in a friendly way , '' to induce Mr. Crawley to desist from his ministrations ; but that having failed through Mr. Crawley 's obstinacy , he had no alternative but to proceed in this way . 
The bishop , thinking of the scene which had taken place in that very room only yesterday , felt that he did know Mr. Crawley , and felt also that the hope which he had just expressed was one in which he himself put no trust . 
But something might turn up ; and it was devoutly to be hoped that Dr. Tempest would take a long time over his inquiry . 
And there was some serious conversation about Grace 's father and his affairs , and John declared his opinion that Mr. Crawley ought to go to his uncle , Thomas Toogood , not at all knowing at that time that Mr. Crawley himself had come to the same opinion . 
You know Mr. Crawley ; do n't you ? '' 
`` And what sort of fellow did you find Crawley , uncle Tom ? '' 
`` And they 're to be married on the first of May , '' said Lucy , -- that Lucy of whom her father had boasted to Mr. Crawley that she knew Byron by heart , -- `` and wo n't that be jolly ? 
`` A very queer case this is of my cousin Crawley 's , '' said Toogood to Walker , when the ladies had left the dining-room . 
`` He ca n't have been a popular man , I should say ? '' 
Nobody knew him personally before this matter came up . '' 
My father tried to be civil to him once , but Crawley would n't have it at all . 
We all thought he was mad then . 
I suppose he has done his duty in his parish ? '' 
`` He has quarrelled with the bishop , you know , -- out and out . '' 
`` Has he , indeed ? 
`` And Mr. Crawley belongs to the former set ; that 's all ? '' 
Now our dean , Dr. Arabin , has been his very old friend , -- and as far as I can learn , a very good friend ; but it seems that Mr. Crawley has done his best to quarrel with him too . '' 
`` He spoke of the dean in the highest terms to me . '' 
`` He may do that , -- and yet quarrel with him . 
He 'd quarrel with his own right hand , if he had nothing else to quarrel with . 
He 'll take nobody 's advice . 
He thinks that we 're all against him . ' 
`` I suppose the world has been heavy on him , Mr. Walker ? '' 
`` And I do n't think Mr. Crawley is responsible , '' said Johnny . 
`` Then how can he be fit to have charge of a parish ? '' 
Then his friends come forward , -- and from sympathy with his sufferings , I desire to be ranked among the number , -- and say , ` Ah , but you should spare this man , because he is not responsible . ' 
But Mr. Crawley holds a living , and if he escape he will be triumphant , -- especially triumphant over the bishop . 
Now , if he has really taken this money , and if his only excuse be that he did not know when he took it whether he was stealing or whether he was not , -- for the sake of justice that ought not to be allowed . '' 
`` You think he certainly did steal the money ? '' 
`` That the cheque was dropped in his house . '' 
`` It was at any rate traced to his hands . '' 
`` And he ca n't account for it , '' said Walker . 
Here is the fact : that Mr. Crawley has the cheque , and brings it into use some considerable time after it is drawn ; and the additional fact that the drawer of the cheque had lost it , as he thought , in Mr. Crawley 's house , and had looked for it there , soon after it was drawn , and long before it was paid . 
A jury must judge ; but , as a lawyer , I should say that the burden of disproof lies with Mr. Crawley . '' 
On the morning after his return from London Mr. Crawley showed symptoms of great fatigue , and his wife implored him to remain in bed . 
But this he would not do . 
He would get up , and go out down to the brickfields . 
He had specially bound himself , -- he said , to see that the duties of the parish did not suffer by being left in his hands . 
The bishop had endeavoured to place them in other hands , but he had persisted in retaining them . 
As he had done so he could allow no weariness of his own to interfere , -- and especially no weariness induced by labours undertaken on his own behalf . 
The day in the week had come round on which it was his wont to visit the brickmakers , and he would visit them . 
So he dragged himself out of his bed and went forth amidst the cold storm of a harsh wet March morning . 
His wife well knew when she heard his first word on that morning that one of those terrible moods had come upon him which made her doubt whether she ought to allow him to go anywhere alone . 
Latterly there had been some improvement in his mental health . 
Since the day of his encounter with the bishop and Mrs. Proudie , though he had been as stubborn as ever , he had been less apparently unhappy , less depressed in spirits . 
And the journey to London had done him good . 
His wife had congratulated herself on finding him able to set about his work like another man , and he himself had experienced a renewal , if not of hope , at any rate , of courage , which had given him a comfort which he had recognized . 
His common-sense had not been very striking in his interview with Mr. Toogood , but yet he had talked more rationally then and had given a better account of the matter in hand than could have been expected from him for some weeks previously . 
So it was with Mr. Crawley . 
Though his imagination pictured to himself the whole scene , -- how he would humble himself to the ground as he acknowledged his unfitness , how he would endure the small-voiced triumph of the little bishop , how , from the abjectness of his own humility , even from the ground on which he would be crouching , he would rebuke the loud-mouthed triumph of the bishop 's wife ; though there was no touch wanting to the picture which he thus drew , -- he did not really propose to himself to commit this professional suicide . 
They were sitting quite close to each other , on an old sofa in a small upstairs room , from which a door opened into the larger chamber in which Mr. Crawley was lying . 
He wrote a word upon his card before giving it to the servant , -- `` about Mr. Crawley . '' 
In a few minutes he was shown into the library , and had hardly time , while looking at the shelves , to remember what Mr. Crawley had said of his anger at the beautiful bindings , before an old man , very thin and very pale , shuffled into the room . 
I do n't know whether it is proper , but may I ask whether you call as , -- as , -- as a friend of Mr. Crawley 's ? '' 
`` You know Mr. Crawley , then ? '' 
He is a gentleman not much given to social habits , and has been but seldom here . 
But he is an old friend whom my son-in-low loves dearly . '' 
`` All the butchers in Barsetshire could not make an honest man steal money , and I think that Mr. Crawley is an honest man . 
`` Why ; he 's my cousin , -- or rather , my wife 's . 
Then Mr. Toogood explained as well as he was able that the dean might have something to say on the subject which would serve Mr. Crawley 's defence . 
`` As far as I can judge , Crawley still thinks , -- or half thinks , -- that he got the cheque from your son-in-low . '' 
`` I 'm not saying he did , you know , '' continued Mr. Toogood . 
But if it was necessary on Mr. Crawley 's behalf , of course it must be done . 
He could not teach himself to hope that Mr. Crawley should be acquitted if Mr. Crawley were guilty ; -- but he could teach himself to believe that Mr. Crawley was innocent . 
Something of a doubt had crept across his mind as he talked to the lawyer . 
`` When I wrote on Tuesday I told you about poor Mr. Crawley , that he was the clergyman in Barsetshire of whose misfortune you read an account in Galignani 's Messenger , -- and I think Susan must have written about it also , because everybody here is talking of nothing else , and because , of course , we know how strong a regard the dean has for Mr. Crawley . 
I can not for a moment suppose that a clergyman and a gentleman such as Mr. Crawley should have stolen money , and if he is innocent I can not understand why all this trouble should be necessary to prevent a jury finding him guilty . 
It has something to do with the money which was given to Mr. Crawley last year , and which , if I remember right , was your present . 
No , -- it was impossible to believe that Mr. Crawley had in truth stolen a cheque for twenty pounds ! 
He had quite appreciated the fact that Mr. Crawley was not like other men . 
`` The man 's not above half-saved , '' he had said to his wife , -- meaning thereby to insinuate that the poor clergyman was not in full possession of his wits . 
There was a something in Mr. Crawley 's manner , in spite of his declared poverty , and in spite also of his extreme humility , which seemed to announce that he expected to be obeyed when he spoke on any point with authority . 
Mr. Toogood had not forgotten the tone in which Mr. Crawley had said to him , `` Sir , this thing you can not do . '' 
And he thought that , upon the whole , he had better not go to Hogglestock on this occasion . 
When at Silverbridge , he began at once to `` rummage about . '' 
His chief rummaging was to be done at Mr. Walker 's table ; but before dinner he had time to call upon the magistrate 's clerk , and ask a few questions as to the proceedings at the sitting from which Mr. Crawley was committed . 
He found a very taciturn old man , who was nearly as difficult to deal with in any rummaging process as a porcupine . 
But , nevertheless , at last he reached a state of conversation which was not absolutely hostile . 
It seemed to be understood that Mr. Crawley was to be the general subject of conversation , and no one attempted to talk about anything else . 
Indeed , at this time , very little else was talked about in that part of the county ; -- not only because of the interest naturally attaching to the question of the suspected guilt of a parish clergyman , but because much had become lately known of Mr. Crawley 's character , and because it was known also that an internecine feud had arisen between him and the bishop . 
It had undoubtedly become the general opinion that Mr. Crawley had picked up and used a cheque which was not his own ; -- that he had , in fact , stolen it ; but there was , in spite of that belief , a general wish that he might be acquitted and left in his living . 
And when the tidings of Mr. Crawley 's victory over the bishop at the palace had become bruited about , popular sympathy went with the victor . 
And now the tidings of another stage in the battle , as fought against Mr. Crawley by the bishop , had gone forth through the county , and men had heard that the rural dean was to be instructed to make inquiries which should be preliminary to proceedings against Mr. Crawley in an ecclesiastical court . 
Dr. Tempest , who was now about to meet Mr. Toogood at Mr. Walker 's , was the rural dean to whom Mr. Crawley would have to submit himself in any such inquiry ; but Dr. Tempest had not as yet received from the bishop any official order on the subject . 
The major is a man of family , and of course it would be very disagreeable if Mr. Crawley were found guilty . '' 
`` You think it will go against him , Mr. Toogood ? '' 
Of course Crawley would do all that he could to delay us , and I am not at all sure that we should be in any very great hurry ourselves . '' 
`` We all know that ; and in the event of Mr. Crawley coming back to his parish it would be open to the bishop to raise the question as to his fitness for the duties . '' 
`` Why should n't he be as fit as any one else ? '' 
`` Simply because he would have been found to be a thief , '' said the doctor . 
Mr. Crawley would probably hardly wish to come back . 
If the jury acquit him , the bishop can not proceed any further . 
From this and from much more that was said during the evening on the same subject Mr. Toogood gradually learned the position which Mr. Crawley and the question of Mr. Crawley 's guilt really held in the county , and he returned to town resolved to go on with the case . 
`` I 'll have a barrister down express , and I 'll defend him in his own teeth , '' he said to his wife . 
But there would come an explanation , -- how Crawley was too honourable to employ a man whom he could not pay , and there would be a romance , and it would all go down with the jury . 
And then there came questions as to John 's projected journey to the Continent , and he explained that he was going on law-business , on behalf of Mr. Crawley , to catch the dean and Mrs. Arabin , if it might be possible . 
`` You see , sir , Mr. Toogood , who is Mr. Crawley 's cousin , and also his lawyer , is my cousin , too ; and that 's why I 'm going . '' 
And still there had been hardly a word spoken between him and Lily . 
Then Johnny had to explain ; and in doing so he became very eloquent as to the hardships of Mr. Crawley 's case . 
The dean has not had an opportunity of writing since he heard , -- even if he has yet heard , -- that Mr. Crawley is to be tried . 
And then he and Mrs. Arabin are not together . 
Then Lily began to take an active part in the conversation , and a great deal was said about Mr. Crawley , and about Grace , and Lily declared that she would be very anxious to hear any news which John Eames might be able to send . 
Intimation had been sent from the palace to Dr. Tempest of Silverbridge of the bishop 's intention that a commission should be held by him , as rural dean , with other neighbouring clergymen , as assessors with him , that inquiry might be made on the part of the Church into the question of Mr. Crawley 's guilt . 
It must be understood that by this time the opinion had become very general that Mr. Crawley had been guilty , -- that he had found the cheque in his house , and that he had , after holding it for many months , succumbed to temptation , and applied it to his own purposes . 
But various excuses were made for him by those who so believed . 
Dr. Tempest and others declared that he had derogated from the dignity of his position as an English parish clergyman by such acts ; but , nevertheless , the stories of these deeds acted strongly on the minds of both men and women , creating an admiration for Mr. Crawley which was much stronger than the condemnation of his guilt . 
Even Mrs. Walker and her daughter , and the Miss Prettymans , had so far given way that they had ceased to asseverate their belief in Mr. Crawley 's innocence . 
They contented themselves now with simply expressing a hope that he would be acquitted by a jury , and that when he should be so acquitted the thing might be allowed to rest . 
If he had sinned , no doubt he had repented . 
And then there were serious debates whether he might not have stolen the money without much sin , being mad or half-mad , -- touched with madness when he took it ; and whether he might not , in spite of such temporary touch of madness , be well fitted for his parish duties . 
Sorrow had afflicted him grievously ; but that sorrow , though it had incapacitated him for the management of his own affairs , had not rendered him unfit for the ministrations of his parish . 
Such were the arguments now used in his favour by the women around him ; and the men were not keen to contradict them . 
The wish that he should be acquitted and allowed to remain in his parsonage was very general . 
When therefore it became known that the bishop had decided to put on foot another investigation , with the view of bringing Mr. Crawley 's conduct under ecclesiastical condemnation , almost everybody accused the bishop of persecution . 
It was in vain that certain clear-headed men among the clergy , of whom Dr. Tempest himself was one , pointed out that the bishop after all might perhaps be right ; -- that if Mr. Crawley were guilty , and if he should be found to have been so by a jury , it might be absolutely necessary that an ecclesiastical court should take some cognizance of the crime beyond that taken by the civil law . 
But the answer to this was that Mr. Crawley always had been a good clergyman , was a good clergyman at this moment , and would be a good clergyman when he did come out of prison . 
He had no strong sympathy with Mr. Crawley , as had others . 
He would have had Mr. Crawley silenced without regret , presuming Mr. Crawley to have been guilty . 
But he had a much stronger feeling with regard to the bishop . 
Once at this period Archdeacon Grantly and Dr. Tempest met each other and discussed the question of Mr. Crawley 's guilt . 
Then he went on to explain the great difficulty which he felt , and great sorrow also , in dealing with this matter of Mr. Crawley . 
He looked , therefore , confidently for Dr. Tempest 's assistance . 
Thinking to do the best for Mr. Crawley , and anxious to enable Mr. Crawley to remain in quiet retirement till the trial should be over , he had sent a clergyman over to Hogglestock , who would have relieved Mr. Crawley from the burden of the church-services ; -- but Mr. Crawley would have none of this relief . 
Mr. Crawley had been obstinate and overbearing , and had persisted in claiming his right to his own pulpit . 
Not a word was said about Mr. Crawley . 
Not a word was spoken that night at the palace about Mr. Crawley ; and when that obnoxious guest from Plumstead was gone , Mrs. Proudie resumed her good-humour towards Dr. Tempest . 
Mr. Crawley 's name was not mentioned , but there seemed to be a general feeling among them that there was a task hanging over them which prevented any general conversation . 
`` This terrible affair of Mr. Crawley 's . 
He felt that at the moment he had nothing else to do , and that he must restrain any remonstrance that he might make till Mr. Crawley 's name should be mentioned . 
There she was , -- and as Dr. Tempest was resolved that he would neither give advice nor receive instructions respecting Mr. Crawley in her presence , he could only draw upon his courage and his strategy for the coming warfare . 
But all this Dr. Tempest understood quite as well as she understood it , and had they waited till night he would not have been the first to mention Mr. Crawley 's name . 
And then for hours he thought of Dr. Tempest and Mr. Crawley , considering what he had better do to repair the shipwreck of the morning . 
At last he resolved that he would write to the doctor ; and before he had again seen his wife ; he did write his letter , and he sent it off . 
In this letter he made no direct allusion to the occurrence of the morning , but wrote as though there had not been any fixed intention of a personal discussion between them . 
`` I think it will be better that there should be a commission , '' he said , `` and I would suggest that you should have four other clergymen with you . 
As he wrote these two names he felt ashamed of himself , knowing that he had chosen the two men as being special friends of his wife , and feeling that he should have been brave enough to throw aside all considerations of his wife 's favour , -- especially at this moment , in which he was putting on his armour to do battle against her . 
`` It is not probable , '' he continued to say in his letter , `` that you will be able to make your report until after the trial of this unfortunate gentleman shall have taken place , and a verdict shall have been given . 
He knew well as he wrote this , that he was proposing something much milder than the course intended by his wife when she had instigated him to take proceedings in the matter ; but he did not much regard that now . 
Though he had been weak enough to name certain clergymen as assessors with the rural dean , because he thought that by doing so he would to a certain degree conciliate his wife , -- though he had been so far a coward , yet he was resolved that he would not sacrifice to her his own judgment and his own conscience in his manner of proceeding . 
Then John told the story of Mr. Crawley , -- a considerable portion of the story ; and in his telling of it , I think it probable that he put more weight upon the necessity of his mission to Italy than it could have fairly been made to bear . 
Sir Raffle had already heard something of the story of Mr. Crawley , and was now willing to accept the sad tragedy of that case as an excuse for his private secretary 's somewhat insubordinate conduct . 
`` But Crawley was his friend . '' 
`` Yes , Crawley was his friend ; but I do n't know that fifty-pound notes have always been so very plentiful with him . 
And he has nothing of his own , as far as I can learn . 
It would be just the thing for her to do , -- to give the money to his friend . 
`` And then I will go on to Jerusalem , after him . '' 
He will probably be on his way back , and she will know where you can hit him on the road . 
You must make him understand that it is essential that he should be here some little time before the trial . 
But should Mr. Crawley be acquitted , and should the marriage then take place , the archdeacon himself might probably be got to forgive it . 
`` And as to rank , '' continued Mr. Harding , `` Henry will not at any rate be going lower than his father did when he married you ; -- not so low indeed , for at that time I was only a minor canon , and Mr. Crawley is in possession of a benefice . '' 
`` It is not because Mr. Crawley is only perpetual curate of Hogglestock , that the archdeacon objects to the marriage . 
At the present moment he is in disgrace . '' 
`` All the world thinks that he was guilty . 
And then he is such a man : -- so singular , so unlike anybody else ! 
It was now known throughout Barchester that a commission was to be held by the bishop 's orders , at which inquiry would be made , -- that is , ecclesiastical inquiry , -- as to the guilt imputed to Mr. Crawley in the matter of Mr. Soames 's cheque . 
When the carriage stopped before the little wicket-gate , from whence a path led through a ragged garden from the road to Mr. Crawley 's house , Lady Lufton hardly knew how to proceed . 
It was happily the case that Mr. Crawley was not at home . 
Mr. Crawley was away at Hoggle End , reading to the brickmakers , or turning the mangles of their wives , or teaching them theology , or politics , or history , after his fashion . 
In these days he spent , perhaps , the happiest hours of his life down at Hoggle End . 
I say that his absence was a happy chance , because , had he been at home , he would certainly have said something , or done something , to offend Lady Lufton . 
He would either have refused to see her , or when seeing her he would have bade her hold her peace and not interfere with matters which did not concern her , or , -- more probable still , -- he would have sat still and sullen , and have spoken not at all . 
But he was away , and Mrs. Crawley sent out word by the servant that she would be most proud to see her ladyship , if her ladyship would be pleased to alight . 
`` We feel so much for you and Mr. Crawley , '' said Mrs. Robarts ; `` and are so sure that your sufferings are unmerited . '' 
Perhaps I ought not to say so , but I do not know how otherwise to explain myself ; and when it is known , by the bishop and others , that you have come to us during that sad time , it will be understood that we think well of Mr. Crawley , in spite of anything that a jury may say of him . 
And we do think well of him . 
She still heard the Crawley question discussed every day . 
The Crawley case was constantly in Lily 's ears , and as constantly she heard high praise awarded to Johnny for his kindness in going after the Arabins . 
`` I wonder whether poor Mr. Crawley will be found guilty ? '' 
`` I am afraid he will ; I am afraid he will , '' said Sir Raffle ; `` and I fear , my dear Miss Dale , that I must go further than that . 
I fear I must express an opinion that he is guilty . '' 
But , my dear Miss Dale , where did Mr. Crawley get that cheque ? 
If you can tell me that , then I can tell you whether or no he will be acquitted . '' 
I think that a portion of her dislike to him arose from the fact that in continuing the conversation he did not revert to his private secretary , but preferred to regale her with stories of his own doings in wonderful cases which had partaken of interest similar to that which now attached itself to Mr. Crawley 's case . 
He had known a man who had stolen a hundred pounds , and had never been found out ; and another man who had been arrested for stealing two-and-sixpence which was found afterwards sticking to a bit of butter at the bottom of a plate . 
This had rather disconcerted him , and then there had been no more talking about Mr. Crawley . 
She was making up her mind that she would say something about the Crawley matter , -- not intending of course to mention John Eames 's name , -- when suddenly her tongue was paralyzed and she could not speak . 
It was at last arranged that the five clergymen selected should meet at Dr. Tempest 's house in Silverbridge to make inquiry and report to the bishop whether the circumstances connected with the cheque for twenty pounds were of such a nature as to make it incumbent on him to institute proceedings against Mr. Crawley in the Court of Arches . 
Dr. Tempest had acted upon the letter which he had received from the bishop , exactly as though there had been no meeting at the palace , no quarrel to the death between him and Mrs. Proudie . 
He was a prudent man , gifted with the great power of holding his tongue , and had not spoken a word , even to his wife , of what had occurred . 
The bishop had never spoken a word to her respecting Mr. Crawley since that terrible day on which Dr. Tempest had witnessed his imbecility , -- having absolutely declined to answer when his wife had mentioned the subject . 
she had said to him , when he had thus declined , remonstrating more in sorrow than in anger . 
She talked to Mr. Thumble about Mr. Crawley and the cheque , as though everything were arranged quite to her satisfaction , -- as though everything , indeed , had been arranged by herself . 
When the first greetings were over luncheon was announced , and while they were eating not a word was said about Mr. Crawley . 
It would have been difficult to have got together five gentlemen less likely to act with one mind and one spirit ; -- and perhaps it was all the better for Mr. Crawley that it should be so . 
Not a word had as yet been said about Mr. Crawley , and no one of the four strangers knew whether Mr. Crawley was to appear before them on that day or not . 
When he said this , the other four all looked up at him in astonishment . 
`` But Mr. Crawley has not shown himself to be unfit , '' said Robarts . 
If he were to allow the matter to pass by without notice , -- that is to say , in the event of Mr. Crawley being pronounced to be guilty by a jury , -- he would , I think , neglect his duty . 
Now , I have been informed that the bishop has recommended Mr. Crawley to desist from his duties till the trial be over , and that Mr. Crawley has declined to take the bishop 's advice . 
`` He altogether disregarded the bishop . '' 
`` I can not say that I think he was wrong , '' said Dr. Tempest . 
`` I think he was quite right , '' said Mr. Robarts . 
`` Be that as it may , '' continued the doctor , `` the bishop feels that it may be his duty to oppose the return of Mr. Crawley to his pulpit , and that he can oppose it in no other way than by proceeding against Mr. Crawley under the Clerical Offences Act . 
I propose , therfore , that we should invite Mr. Crawley to attend here -- '' `` Mr. Crawley is not coming here to-day , then ? '' 
`` I thought it useless to ask for his attendance until we had settled on our course of action , '' said Dr. Tempest . 
`` If we are all agreed , I will beg him to come here on this day week , when we will meet again . 
And we will then ask him whether he will submit himself to the bishop 's decision , in the event of the jury finding him guilty . 
If Mr. Crawley should choose to make to us any statement as to his own case , of course we shall be willing to receive it . 
`` Then I will write to Mr. Crawley , and you , gentlemen , will perhaps do me the honour of meeting me here at one o'clock on this day week . '' 
`` We did not even see Mr. Crawley to-day . 
But the real truth is that he must stand or fall as the jury shall find him guilty or not guilty . 
Her vicar , Mr. Robarts , had been selected to be one of the clergymen who was to sit in ecclesiastical judgment upon Mr. Crawley , and while he was so sitting Mr. Crawley 's daughter was staying in Mr. Robarts ' house as a visitor with his wife ! 
By this time he hated the very name of Crawley . 
He hated it the more because in hating it he had to put himself for the time on the same side with Mrs. Proudie . 
But for all that he would not condescend to any unworthy mode of fighting . 
He thought it wrong that the young lady should be invited to Framley Parsonage at this moment , and he said so to the person who had , as he thought , in truth , given the invitation ; but he would not allow his own personal motives to induce him to carry on the argument with Lady Lufton . 
`` The bishop is a fool , '' he said , `` and the bishop 's wife is a knave . 
They had been talking about Mr. Crawley when he suddenly turned himself round , so that he could look at his companion , and said , `` Miss Crawley is staying with us at the parsonage at the present moment . '' 
Mr. Crawley 's daughter ? '' 
`` Yes ; Mr. Crawley 's daughter . '' 
`` We have known them for the last seven or eight years , '' said Mark ; `` and though I should be giving you a false notion if I were to say that I myself have known them intimately , -- for Crawley is a man whom it is quite impossible to know intimately , -- yet the womankind at Framley have known them . 
She knew well how odious was the name of Crawley in her husband 's ears , and she felt that the less that was said at present about the Crawleys the better for the peace of the rectory at Plumstead . 
She had therefore allowed the expression of his disapproval to pass unchallenged . 
But now he came upon her with a more bitter grievance , and she was obliged to argue the matter with him . 
said he ; `` Henry is at Framley . '' 
The business at home of which the major 's mother was speaking was his projected moving from Cosby Lodge , a subject which was also very odious to the archdeacon . 
There was no outward adornment there ; there was , so to say , no wig about Mr. Crawley . 
Now the archdeacon was not exactly adorned ; but he was so thoroughly imbued with high clerical belongings and sacerdotal fitnesses as to appear always as a walking , sitting , or standing impersonation of parsondom . 
To poor Grace , as she entered the room , he appeared to be an impersonation of parsondom in its severest aspect . 
said he . 
`` Yes , sir , '' said she , curtseying ever so slightly , as she stood before him at some considerable distance . 
His first idea was that his son must be indeed a fool if he was going to give up Cosby Lodge and all Barsetshire , and retire to Pau , for so slight and unattractive a creature as he now saw before him . 
But this idea stayed with him only for a moment . 
As he continued to gaze at her during the interview he came to perceive that there was very much more than he had perceived at the first glance , and that his son , after all , had had eyes to see , though perhaps not a heart to understand . 
he said . 
Then Grace sat down , still at a distance from the archdeacon , and he kept his place upon the rug . 
He felt that there would be a difficulty in making her feel the full force of his cloquence all across the room ; and yet he did not know how to bring himself nearer to her . 
She became suddenly very important in his eyes , and he was to some extent afraid of her . 
She was so slight , so meek , so young ; and yet there was about her something so beautifully feminine , -- and , withal , so like a lady , -- that he felt instinctively that he could not attack her with harsh words . 
Had her lips been full , and her colour high , and had her eyes rolled , had she put forth against him any of that ordinary artillery with which youthful feminine batteries are charged , he would have been ready to rush to the combat . 
But this girl , about whom his son had gone mad , sat there as passively as though she were conscious of the possession of no artillery . 
He knew not why , but he respected his son now more than he had respected him for the last two months ; -- more , perhaps , than he had ever respected him before . 
He was as eager as ever against the marriage ; -- but in thinking of his son in what he said and did after these few first moments of the interview , he ceased to think of him with contempt . 
The creature before him was a woman who grew in his opinion till he began to feel that she was in truth fit to be the wife of his son -- if only she were not a pauper , and the daughter of a mad curate , and , alas ! 
If Crawley were found guilty of stealing the money , there was the girl 's promise . 
If he were acquitted , there was his own pledge . 
He remembered perfectly well that the girl had said more than this , -- that she had not confined her assurance to the verdict of a jury , that she had protested that she would not accept Major Grantly 's hand as long as people thought that her father had stolen the cheque ; but the archdeacon felt that it would be ignoble to hold her closely to her words . 
If the jury should find Mr. Crawley not guilty , all objection on his part to the marriage was to be withdrawn . 
And he would keep his word ! 
When he came to the rags of the auctioneer 's bill , which he had before torn down with his umbrella , he stopped a moment to consider how he would act at once . 
In the first place he would tell his son that his threats were withdrawn , and would ask him to remain at Cosby Lodge . 
Could he desire in his heart that Mr. Crawley should be found guilty ? 
He stood still for a moment thinking of this , and then he walked on , shaking his head . 
If it might be possible he would have no wish on the subject whatsoever . 
said Lady Lufton , stopping him in the passage , -- `` have you seen her ? '' 
If the jury should declare Mr. Crawley to be guilty , then -- ; he would not say even to himself that in such case all would be right , but he did feel that much as he might regret the fate of the poor Crawleys , and of the girl whom in his warmth he had declared to be almost an angel , nevertheless to him personally such a verdict would bring consolatory comfort . 
`` I have seen Miss Crawley , '' he said to his wife , as soon as he had closed the door of his study , before he had been two minutes out of the chaise . 
He had determined that he would dash at the subject at once , and he thus carried his resolution into effect . 
He had gone all the way over to Framley on purpose to look after his son , and learn what were his doings , and when there he had forgotten to ask the person who could have given him better information than any one else ! 
`` Admirably , '' said the archdeacon , who was in a measure compelled to justify the generosity into which he had been betrayed by his feelings . 
How keenly susceptible the archdeacon still was to the influences of feminine charms , no one knew better than Mrs. Grantly , and whenever she became aware that he had been in this way seduced from the wisdom of his cooler judgment she always felt something akin to indignation against the seducer . 
She was the first to speak about Mr. Crawley 's supposed guilt . 
Let us hope that Mr. Crawley will be acquitted , and then all will be right . 
You 'll find that if Mr. Crawley is acquitted , or if he escapes in any way , your father will only be happy of an excuse to make much of the young lady . 
In accordance with the resolution to which the clerical commission had come on the first day of their sitting , Dr. Tempest wrote the following letter to Mr. Crawley : -- Rectory , Silverbridge , April 9 , 186 -- . 
In the same envelope Dr. Tempest sent a short private note , in which he said that he should be very happy to see Mr. Crawley at half-past one on the Monday named , that luncheon would be ready at that hour , and that , as Mr. Crawley 's attendance was required on public grounds , he would take care that a carriage was provided for the day . 
Mr. Crawley received this letter in his wife 's presence , and read it in silence . 
Mrs. Crawley saw that he paid close attention to it , and was sure , -- she felt that she was sure , -- that it referred in some way to the terrible subject of the cheque for twenty pounds . 
said Crawley , recalled suddenly back to the realities of life . 
said Mr. Crawley , looking at the old man , who had been at work in the brickfield , and who was soaked with mire , and from whom there seemed to come a steam of muddy mist . 
`` My friend , '' said Crawley , who was now standing on the road , -- and as he spoke he put out his arm and took the brickmaker by the hand , `` there is a worse complaint than rheumatism , -- there is , indeed . '' 
`` There 's what they calls the collerer , '' said Giles Hoggett , looking up into Mr. Crawley 's face . 
`` Maybe that 's bad enough too , '' said Giles , with his hand still held by the other . 
`` It is bad enough , '' said Mr. Crawley , striking his breast with his left hand . 
Mr. Crawley also turned homewards , and as he made his way through the lanes , he repeated to himself Giles Hoggett 's words . 
He did not say a word to his wife on that afternoon about Dr. Tempest ; and she was so much taken up with his outward condition when he returned , as almost to have forgotten the letter . 
He allowed himself , but barely allowed himself , to be made dry , and then for the remainder of the day applied himself to learn the lesson which Hoggett had endeavoured to teach him . 
`` I have no card , '' said Mr. Crawley , `` but I will write my name for your behoof if your master 's hospitality will allow me paper and pencil . '' 
The name was written , and as Crawley waited in the drawing-room he spent his time in hating Dr. Tempest because the door had been opened by a man-servant dressed in black . 
`` Your letter came to hand yesterday morning , Dr. Tempest , '' said Mr. Crawley , still standing , though the doctor had pointed to a chair for him after shaking hands with him ; `` and having given yesterday to the consideration of it , with what judgment I have been able to exercise , I have felt it to be incumbent upon me to wait upon you without further delay , as by doing so I may perhaps assist your views and save labour to those gentlemen who are joined with you in this commission of which you have spoken . 
Dr. Tempest had been looking at him during this speech , and could see by his shoes and trowsers that he had walked from Hogglestock to Silverbridge . 
`` Mr. Crawley , will you not sit down ? '' 
said he , and then he rang his bell . 
Mr. Crawley sat down , not on the chair indicated , but on one further removed and at the other side of the table . 
When the servant came , -- the objectionable butler in black clothes that were so much smarter than Mr. Crawley 's own , -- his master 's orders were communicated without any audible word , and the man returned with a decanter and wine-glasses . 
`` After your walk , Mr. Crawley , '' said Dr. Tempest , getting up from his seat to pour out the wine . 
`` I will take none , if you please , sir , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
`` Now , Mr. Crawley , '' said Dr. Tempest , `` do let me speak to you as a friend . 
Mr. Crawley did eat the biscuit and did drink the wine , and as he did so , he acknowledged to himself that Dr. Tempest was right . 
He felt that the wine made him stronger to speak . 
`` I have preferred to-day to Monday , '' said Crawley , `` partly because I would sooner talk to one man than to five . '' 
He had got up from his chair , and was standing as he pronounced the final sentence against himself . 
Dr. Tempest still remained seated in his chair , looking at him , and for a few moments there was silence . 
`` You must not do that , Mr. Crawley , '' Dr. Tempest said at last . 
My decision -- '' `` Stop a moment , Mr. Crawley . 
`` No , Mr. Crawley ; I shall not do that . 
`` And your wife , Mr. Crawley , and your children ? '' 
At that moment Mr. Crawley called to mind the advice of his friend Giles Hoggett . 
He certainly wanted something very strong to sustain him in his difficulty . 
He found that this reference to his wife and children required him to be dogged in a very marked manner . 
`` I can only trust that the wind may be tempered to them , '' he said . 
Dr. Tempest got up from his chair , and took a couple of turns about the room before he spoke again . 
`` Man , '' he said , addressing Mr. Crawley with all his energy , `` if you do this thing , you will then at least be very wicked . 
`` I care nothing now for the verdict , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
`` It 's dogged as does it , '' said Mr. Crawley to himself . 
`` I have thought of that , '' he said aloud . 
Dr. Tempest , finding that he could not prevail with him , bade him adieu , feeling that any service to the Crawleys within his power might be best done by intercession with the bishop and with the dean . 
Then Mr. Crawley walked back to Hogglestock , repeating to-himself Giles Hoggett 's words , `` It 's dogged as does it . '' 
Mr. crawley , when he got home after his walk to Silverbridge , denied that he was at all tired . 
`` My dear Mr. Crawley , '' the note ran , `` I implore you , if there be yet time , to do nothing rashly . 
Mr. Crawley walked about again with this letter in his pocket , but on this occasion he did not go in the direction of Hoggle End . 
From Hoggle End he could hardly hope to pick up further lessons of wisdom . 
Mr. Crawley had been for a while in doubt how he should address his old friend in commencing this letter , understanding that its tone throughout must , in a great degree , be made conformable with its first words . 
He would fain , in his pride , have begun `` Sir . '' 
Crawley would have been very angry had he now been called Joe by the dean , and would have bitten his tongue out before he would have called the dean Frank . 
I am sorry that the trouble of such a letter should be forced upon you during your holidays ; '' -- Mr. Crawley , as he wrote this , did not forget to remind himself that he never had any holidays ; -- `` but I think you will admit , if you will bear with me to the end , that I have no alternative . 
It must be noticed that in the draught copy of his letter which Mr. Crawley gave to his wife to read this last sentence was not inserted . 
Intending that she should read his letter , he omitted it till he made the fair copy . 
And yet , though he thus pleaded against himself , he knew that the two men of whom he was speaking were thick-headed dolts who were always tipsy on Saturday nights , and who came to church perhaps once in three weeks . 
The last paragraph of the letter was also added since his wife had read it . 
When he had first composed his letter , he had been somewhat proud of his words , thinking that he had clearly told his story . 
But when , sitting alone at his desk , he read it again , filling his mind as he went on with ideas which he would fain have expressed to his old friend , were it not that he feared to indulge himself with too many words , he began to tell himself that his story was anything but well told . 
After two days he got a reply from the bishop 's chaplain , in which the chaplain expressed the bishop 's commendation of Mr. Crawley 's present conduct . 
It need hardly be explained that the promised visit of Mr. Thumble to Hogglestock was gall and wormwood to Mr. Crawley . 
He had told the dean that should Mr. Thumble come , he would endeavour to learn something even from him . 
But it may be doubted whether Mr. Crawley in his present mood could learn anything useful from Mr. Thumble . 
He determined , therefore , that he would go over to Hogglestock , and see Mr. Crawley before he saw the auctioneer . 
Hitherto Major Grantly had never even spoken to Mr. Crawley . 
It may be remembered that the major was at the present moment one of the bailsmen for the due appearance of Mr. Crawley before the judge , and that he had been present when the magistrates sat at the inn in Silverbridge . 
He therefore knew the man 's presence , but except on that occasion he had never even seen his intended future father-in-law . 
From the moment when he had first allowed himself to think of Grace , he had desired , yet almost feared , to make acquaintance with the father ; but had been debarred from doing so by the peculiar position in which Mr. Crawley was placed . 
He had felt that it would be impossible to speak to the father of his affection for the daughter without any allusion to the coming trial ; and he did not know how such allusion could be made . 
The door was immediately opened , and in the passage he found Mr. Crawley , and another clergyman whom the reader will recognize as Mr. Thumble . 
Mr. Thumble had come over to make arrangements as to the Sunday services and the parochial work , and had been very urgent in impressing on Mr. Crawley that the duties were to be left entirely to himself . 
Hence had come some bitter words , in which Mr. Crawley , though no doubt he said the sharper things of the two , had not been able to vanquish his enemy so completely as he had done on former occasions . 
`` There shall be none of which the bishop shall have reason to complain , '' Mr. Crawley had replied . 
`` There must be none at all , Mr. Crawley , if you please . 
`` Sir , '' said Mr. Crawley , very irate at this appeal to his wife , and speaking in a loud voice , `` do you misdoubt my word ; or do you think that if I were minded to be false to you , that I should be corrected in my falsehood by the firmer faith of my wife ? '' 
`` I meant nothing about falsehood , Mr. Crawley . '' 
`` That is all that I require , Mr. Crawley . '' 
But Mr. Crawley interrupted him instantly . 
If you please , sir , let there be an end of it ; '' and Mr. Crawley waved his hand . 
I hope that the reader will conceive the tone of Mr. Crawley 's voice , and will appreciate the aspect of his face , and will see the motion of his hand , as he spoke these latter words . 
Though Mr. Crawley was now but a broken reed , and was beneath his feet , yet Mr. Thumble acknowledged to himself that he could not hold his own in debate with this broken reed . 
Mr. Crawley was in the act of replying to lamentations on this subject , with his hand on the latch , when the major arrived -- `` I regret to say , sir , that I can not assist you by supplying any other steed . '' 
Then the major had knocked , and Mr. Crawley had at once opened the door . 
`` You probably do not remember me , Mr. Crawley ? '' 
She too had barely seen Major Grantly ; and now the only bright gleam which appeared on her horizon depended on his constancy under circumstances which would have justified his inconstancy . 
But had he meant to be inconstant , surely he would never have come to Hogglestock ! 
`` I remember you well , sir , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
Mr. Thumble , who had caught the name of Grantly , took off his hat , which he had put on his head . 
He had not been particular in keeping off his hat before Mr. Crawley . 
But he knew very well that Archdeacon Grantly was a big man in the diocese ; and though the Grantlys and the Proudies were opposed to each other , still it might be well to take off his hat before any one who had to do with the big ones of the diocese . 
Mr. Crawley was standing with the door wide open in his hand . 
He also was anxious to be rid of Mr. Thumble , -- and was perhaps not so solicitous as a brother clergyman should have been touching the future fate of Mr. Thumble in the matter of the bishop 's old cob . 
`` If you will allow him to progress slowly , '' said Mr. Crawley , `` he will probably travel with the greater safety . '' 
`` I do n't know what you call slow , Mr. Crawley . 
He stumbled almost at every step . '' 
`` Did he fall while you were on him ? '' 
`` Indeed he did , sir . 
`` It was well he was not going fast , or you would have come on to your head , '' said Grantly . 
`` The request is most unreasonable , sir , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
`` You can surely walk , leading the beast , if you fear to mount him , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
`` And , Mr. Crawley , if you will have the kindness to leave things in the parish just as they are , -- just as they are , I will be obliged to you . 
Mr. Thumble was by this time on the step , and Mr. Crawley instantly slammed the door . 
`` The gentleman is a clergyman from Barchester , '' said Mr. Crawley , modestly folding his hands upon his breast , `` whom the bishop has sent over here to take upon himself temporarily the services of the church , and , as it appears , the duties also of the parish . 
Then Mr. Crawley motioned him in with his hand , and Major Grantly found himself in the presence of Mrs. Crawley and her younger daughter . 
He looked at them both for a moment , and could trace much of the lines of that face which he loved so well . 
But the likeness in each was quite enough to make him feel that he ought to be at home in that room . 
He thought that he could love the woman as his mother , and the girl as his sister . 
He found it very difficult to begin any conversation in their presence , and yet it seemed to be his duty to begin . 
Mr. Crawley had marshalled him into the room , and having done so , stood aside near the door . 
Mrs. Crawley had received him very graciously , and having done so , seemed to be ashamed of her own hospitality . 
Was she not expressing her strong hope that he might stand fast by her child , whereby the whole Crawley family would gain so much , -- and the Grantly family lose much , in the same proportion ? 
`` Sir , '' said Mr. Crawley , `` I owe you thanks , still unexpressed , in that you came forward , together with Mr. Robarts of Framley , to satisfy the not unnatural requisition of the magistrates before whom I was called upon to appear in the early winter . 
`` There was no jeopardy , Mr. Crawley . 
There was something almost forbidding in the peculiar gravity of Mr. Crawley 's countenance when , as at present , something operated within him to cause him to express dissent from any proposition that was made to him . 
`` Sir , '' said Mr. Crawley , `` I am so placed by the untoward circumstances of my life that I can hardly claim to exercise over my own daughter that authority which should belong to a parent . '' 
`` All this , however , matters nothing , '' continued Mr. Crawley , `` and all speech on such homely matters would amount to an impertinence before you , sir , were it not that you have hinted at a purpose of connecting yourself at some future time with this unfortunate family . '' 
`` I meant to be plain-spoken , Mr. Crawley . '' 
I rather was minded to make known to you that I , -- or , I should rather say , we , '' and Mr. Crawley pointed to his wife , -- `` shall not accept your plainness of speech as betokening aught beyond a conceived idea in furtherance of which you have thought it expedient to make certain inquiries . '' 
`` I am sorry that I have not been explicit , '' said Mr. Crawley , `` but I will endeavour to make myself more plainly intelligible . 
Mrs. Crawley could not restrain herself , but running up to him , took his hand in hers and kissed it . 
`` There is unfortunately a stain , which is vicarial , '' began Mr. Crawley , sustaining up to that point his voice with Roman fortitude , -- with a fortitude which would have been Roman had it not at that moment broken down under the pressure of human feeling . 
Then he went without saying a word further to Mr. Crawley . 
As soon as he was gone , the wife went over to her husband , and put her arm gently round his neck as he was sitting . 
How she hated Mr. Crawley for all the sorrow that he had brought upon her and her house ! 
And it was still the affair of Mr. Crawley which urged her on to further action . 
When the bishop received Mr. Crawley 's letter he said nothing of it to her ; but he handed it over to his chaplain . 
She would again make an attempt upon her husband , and therefore she went into his room holding Mr. Crawley 's letter in her hand . 
`` My dear , '' she said , `` here is Mr. Crawley 's letter . 
The condition of his mind was in truth bad , and was becoming worse , probably , from day to day ; but still he did make his calculations about things , and now reflected that it would be sufficient if he spoke to his chaplain to-morrow about Mr. Crawley 's letter . 
It was he who had brought Mr. Crawley 's letter to Mrs. Proudie , and she now returned to him with that letter in her hand . 
And so his mind went back to the Crawley and Thumble question , and he tried to alleviate the misery which that last interview with his wife now created by assuring himself that he at least had been justified in what he had done . 
`` May God forgive her all her sins , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
It never occurred to Mr. Crawley that he and his affair had , in truth , been the cause of her death . 
Dr. Tempest had also heard that Mr. Crawley had submitted himself to the bishop , that instant advantage , -- and as Dr. Tempest thought , unfair advantage , -- had been taken of Mr. Crawley 's submission , and that the pernicious Thumble had been at once sent over to Hogglestock . 
Had these palace doings with reference to Mr. Crawley been unaccompanied by the catastrophe which had happened , the doctor , much as he might have regretted them , would probably have felt that there was nothing to be done . 
Thumble would be then thoroughly cowed ; and it might at any rate be possible to make some movement in Mr. Crawley 's favour . 
I would see Crawley first , and get his consent . '' 
`` Then I should go on without his consent , and I would see Thumble and the bishop 's chaplain , Snapper . 
The great thing will be that Crawley should go on with the duty till the assizes . 
If it should then happen that he goes into Barchester , is acquitted , and comes back again , the whole thing will be over , and there will be no further interference in the parish . 
`` I daresay Mr. Crawley will be a little stiff-necked with you . '' 
`` He will be very stiff-necked with me , '' said Mr. Robarts . 
`` But I can hardly think that he will throw away the only means he has of supporting his wife and children , when he finds that there can be no occasion for his doing so . 
I do not suppose that any person wishes him to throw up his work now that that poor woman has gone . '' 
Mr. Crawley had been almost in good spirits since the last visit which Mr. Thumble had made to him . 
He had gone to Silverbridge by railway , and had , therefore , been obliged to postpone his visit to Mr. Crawley till the next day ; but early on the Friday morning he rode over to Hogglestock . 
On this account Mr. Crawley , though he really liked Mr. Robarts , and was thankful to him for many kindnesses , could never bear his presence with perfect equanimity . 
Within the last twelvemonth his wife had inherited Mr. Crawley did not care to know how many thousand pounds . 
Was it possible that Mr. Crawley should regard such a man with equanimity ? 
Robarts rode over with a groom behind him , -- really taking the groom because he knew that Mr. Crawley would have no one to hold his horse for him ; -- and the groom was the source of great offence . 
He came upon Mr. Crawley standing at the school door , and stopping at once , jumped off his nag . 
There was something in the way in which he sprang out of the saddle and threw the reins to the man , which was not clerical in Mr. Crawley 's eyes . 
It might be probable that Mr. Robarts had never stolen twenty pounds , -- might never be accused of so disgraceful a crime , -- but , nevertheless , Mr. Crawley had his own ideas , and made his own comparisons . 
`` Crawley , '' said Robarts , `` I am so glad to find you at home . '' 
`` I should have grieved -- , '' began Crawley ; but Robarts interrupted him at once . 
`` I hope she may grow in grace with God , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
`` Were you not terribly shocked , Crawley , '' he asked , `` when you heard of the death of Mrs. Proudie ? '' 
`` It was sudden and very awful , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
So spoke Mr. Crawley , who never permitted the slightest interference with his own word in his own family , and who had himself been a witness of one of those scenes between the bishop and his wife in which the poor bishop had been so cruelly misused . 
But to Mr. Crawley the thing which he himself had seen under such circumstances was as sacred as though it had come to him under the seal of confession . 
`` The commission is right and proper and just , '' said Mr. Crawley , who could not keep himself silent . 
`` Let him send any other clergyman whom he may think more fitting , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
Mr. Robarts paused for an answer , but it seemed for awhile that all Mr. Crawley 's impatient desire to speak was over . 
He walked on silently along the lane by his visitor 's side , and when , after some five or six minutes , Robarts stood still in the road , Mr. Crawley even then said nothing . 
`` Of course , I am anxious for my wife and children , '' Crawley answered . 
`` Of course I am anxious for my wife and children , '' said Crawley , repeating his words ; `` how anxious , I fancy no man can conceive who has not been near enough to absolute want to know how terrible is its approach when it threatens those who are weak and who are very dear ! 
They were standing quite still now , facing each other , and Crawley , as he spoke with a low voice , looked straight into his friend 's eyes , and kept his hand firmly fixed on his friend 's arm . 
Robarts , when he told the story of the interview to his wife that evening , declared that he had never heard a voice so plaintively touching as was the voice of Mr. Crawley when he uttered those last words . 
Nor did Mr. Crawley ask him to do so . 
`` Mr. Robarts , I thank you warmly , for your friendship , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
In about half an hour Mr. Crawley returned to the house . 
`` Now for Pindar , Jane , '' he said , seating himself at his old desk . 
No word or message from Mr. Crawley reached Barchester throughout the week , and on the Sunday morning Mr. Thumble was under a positive engagement to go out to Hogglestock , and perform the services of the church . 
Up to Saturday evening Mr. Crawley did the work of his parish , and on the Saturday evening he made an address to his parishioners from his pulpit . 
He had given notice among the brickmakers and labourers that he wished to say a few words to them in the school-room ; but the farmers also heard of this and came with their wives and daughters , and all the brickmakers came , and most of the labourers were there , so that there was no room for them in the school-house . 
`` They will come , '' he said to his wife , `` to hear a ruined man declare his own ruin , but they will not come to hear the world of God . '' 
When it was found that the persons assembled were too many for the school-room , the meeting was adjourned to the church , and Mr. Crawley was forced to get into his pulpit . 
He said a short prayer , and then he began his story . 
His story as he told it then shall not be repeated now , as the same story has been told too often already in these pages . 
There was an old lame man from Hoggle End leaning on his stick near the door as Mr. Crawley went out , and with him was his old lame wife . 
On that night the position of the members of Mr. Crawley 's household seemed to have been changed . 
There was something almost of elation in his mode of speaking , and he said soft loving words , striving to comfort his wife . 
She , on the other hand , could say nothing to comfort him . 
She had been averse to the step he was taking , but had been unable to press her objection in opposition to his great argument as to duty . 
Since he had spoken to her in that strain which he had used with Robarts , she also had felt that she must be silent . 
It had been Mr. Crawley 's practice to go into the school from eight to nine ; but on this Sunday he felt , as he told his wife , that his presence would be an intrusion there . 
But he requested Jane to go and perform her usual task . 
`` If Mr. Thumble should come , '' he said to her , `` be submissive to him in all things . '' 
Then he stood at his door , watching to see at what hour Mr. Thumble would reach the school . 
`` And yet he was very express to me in his desire that I would not myself meddle with the duties , '' said Mr. Crawley to his wife as he stood at the door , -- `` unnecessarily urgent , as I must say I thought at the time . '' 
Mr. Crawley took his crust and eat it mournfully , -- almost ostentatiously . 
The tinkle of the church bell was heard at the usual time , and Mr. Crawley , hat in hand , stood ready to go forth . 
He had heard nothing of Mr. Thumble , but had made up his mind that Mr. Thumble would not trouble him . 
The church was very near to the house , and any vehicle arriving might have been seen had Mr. Crawley watched closely . 
Mr. Crawley greeted him in the pathway , raising his hat from his head , and expressing a wish that Mr. Thumble might not feel himself fatigued with his drive . 
`` Her malady is of the spirit rather than of the flesh , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
`` Not part , -- no part whatever , '' said Mr. Crawley , standing still for a moment as he spoke , and showing plainly by the tone of his voice how dismayed he was , how indignant he had been made , by so indecent a proposition . 
To this Mr. Crawley condescended to make no reply whatever . 
In the porch of the church , which was the only entrance , Mr. Crawley introduced Mr. Thumble to the churchwarden , simply by a wave of the hand , and then passed on with his daughter to a seat which opened upon the aisle . 
Jane was going on to that which she had hitherto always occupied with her mother in the little chancel ; but Mr. Crawley would not allow this . 
Neither to him nor to any of his family was there attached any longer the privilege of using the chancel of the church of Hogglestock . 
There were the eyes of Mr. Crawley fixed upon him throughout the work , and a feeling pervaded him that everybody there regarded him as an intruder . 
At first this was so strong upon him that Mr. Crawley pitied him , and would have encouraged him had it been possible . 
But as the work progressed , and as custom and the sound of his own voice emboldened him , there came to the man some touches of the arrogance which so generally accompanies cowardice , and Mr. Crawley 's acute ear detected the moment when it was so . 
An observer might have seen that the motion of his hands was altered as they were lifted in prayer . 
Though he was praying , even in prayer he could not forget the man who was occupying his desk . 
`` My dear , '' said Mr. Crawley , energetically , `` keep your criticisms for matters that are profane ; then , though they be childish and silly , they may at least be innocent . 
But when Jane kissed her father after dinner , she , knowing his humour well , felt assured that her remarks had not been taken altogether in ill part . 
`` Mr. John Eames , '' -- and across the top of it he wrote , `` has come from England about Mr. Crawley . '' 
`` I suppose he must be one of those Foreign Office messengers , '' said the young lady . 
He 's probably a clerk with a fortnight 's leave of absence , seeing how many towns he can do in the time . 
`` You have come about Mr. Crawley ? '' 
`` Do you know Mr. Crawley ? 
Are you a friend of his ? '' 
`` I never saw him in my life ; but he married my cousin . '' 
`` I gave him the cheque , you know , '' said Mrs. Arabin . 
The Crawley case had assumed such magnitude , and the troubles of the Crawley family had been so terrible , that it seemed to him to be almost sacrilegious that words so simply uttered should suffice to cure everything . 
He had hardly hoped , -- had at least barely hoped , -- that Mrs. Arabin might be able to suggest something which would put them all on a track towards discovery of the truth . 
But he found that she had the clue in her hand , and that the clue was one which required no further delicacy of investigation . 
`` Yes , '' said Mrs. Arabin , `` I gave it to him . 
They have been writing to my husband about it , and never wrote to me ; and till I received a letter about it from my father , and another from my sister , at Venice the day before yesterday , I knew nothing of the particulars of Mr. Crawley 's trouble . '' 
`` Had you not heard that he had been taken before the magistrates ? '' 
I had seen in `` Galignani '' something about a clergyman , but I did not know what clergyman ; and I heard that there was something wrong about Mr. Crawley 's money , but there has always been something wrong about money with poor Mr. Crawley ; and as I knew that my husband had been written to also , I did not interfere , further than to ask the particulars . 
`` I telegraphed at once to Mr. Toogood , who I understand is acting as Mr. Crawley 's solicitor . 
My sister sent me his address . '' 
`` He is my uncle . '' 
`` I telegraphed to him , telling him that I had given Mr. Crawley the cheque , and then I wrote to Archdeacon Grantly giving him the whole history . 
It has been told how Mr. Crawley in his dire distress had called upon his old friend at the deanery asking for pecuniary assistance . 
This he had done with so much reluctance that his spirit had given way while he was waiting in the dean 's library , and he had wished to depart without accepting what the dean was quite willing to bestow upon him . 
From this cause it had come to pass there had been no time for explanatory words , even between the dean and his wife , -- from whose private funds had in truth come the money which had been given to Mr. Crawley . 
Previously to Mr. Crawley 's arrival at the deanery this matter had been discussed between the dean and his wife , and it had been agreed between them that a sum of fifty pounds should be given . 
There had been much discussion between them as to the mode in which this might be done with least offence to the man 's feelings , -- for they knew Mr. Crawley and his peculiarities well . 
Then , at the last moment , with the desire of increasing the good to be done to people who were so terribly in want , she put the cheque for twenty-pounds , which was in her possession as money of her own , along with the notes , and in this way the cheque had been given by the dean to Mr. Crawley . 
But Mrs. Arabin 's mind was clearer on such matters than Mr. Crawley 's , and she was able to explain that she had taken the cheque as part of the rent due to her from the landlord of `` The Dragon of Wantly , '' which inn was her property , having been the property of her first husband . 
I gave it to poor Mr. Crawley instead , -- like a fool , as I know now that I was . 
And so I have brought all this trouble on him and on her ; and now I must rush home , without waiting for the dean , as fast as the trains will carry me . '' 
Nor would it do , he thought , for him to be absent in the excitement caused by the news of Mr. Crawley 's innocence and injuries . 
`` I do n't care a bit about that , '' he said . 
And so there grew to be a friendship between him and Mrs. Arabin even before they had started . 
He was driven once through Florence ; he saw the Venus de ' Medici , and he saw the Seggiola ; he looked up from the side of the Duomo to the top of the Campanile , and he walked round the back of the cathedral itself ; he tried to inspect the doors of the Baptistery , and declared that the `` David '' was very fine . 
Then he went back to the hotel , dined with Mrs. Arabin , and started for England . 
I owe more to Mr. Crawley than I can ever pay him . '' 
`` He will be very well paid , I think , '' said John , `` when he hears the truth . 
If you could see inside his mind at this moment , I 'm sure you 'd find that he thinks he stole the cheque . '' 
`` He can not think that , Mr. Eames . 
`` I believe she has been hard to Mr. Crawley , '' said John Eames . 
`` I gave cheque to Mr. Crawley . 
He was at first minded to go at once out to Hogglestock ; but when he remembered how very strange Mr. Crawley was in all his ways , and told himself professionally that telegrams were but bad sources of evidence on which to depend for details , he thought that it would be safer if he were first to see Mr. Walker . 
`` It 's Toogood , '' said he ; `` poor Crawley 's cousin . '' 
`` We have found out all about poor Crawley 's cheque , '' he said , before the maid-servant had closed the door . 
`` I gave cheque to Mr. Crawley . 
`` I 'll tell you what it is , '' said Mrs. Walker ; `` it has been some private transaction between Mr. Crawley and Mrs. Arabin , which the dean was to know nothing about ; and so he would ' t tell . 
`` Mary , Mr. Crawley is all right . 
He did n't steal the cheque . 
Mrs. Arabin gave it to him . '' 
Mr. Crawley himself , I suppose , knows nothing of it yet ? '' 
Ladies who were not in the habit of going out late at night without the fly from the `` George and Vulture , '' tied their heads up in their handkerchiefs , and hurried up and down the street to tell each other that the great secret had been discovered , and that in truth Mr. Crawley had not stolen the cheque . 
Mr. Crawley 's as innocent as the unborn babe . 
Mr. Crawley is innocent . 
Mr. Toogood , you know , is Mr. Crawley 's cousin ; and he is a lawyer , like papa . '' 
`` And does Mr. Toogood say that Mr. Crawley is innocent ? '' 
`` He has heard it by a message from Mrs. Arabin . 
`` It was Mrs. Arabin who sent the cheque to Mr. Crawley . 
So that makes Mr. Crawley quite innocent . 
`` But is n't it odd he did n't say so ? '' 
`` Perhaps he forgot , '' said Anne Prettyman . 
`` I really do think Mr. Crawley could forget anything , '' said the younger sister . 
`` They 'll never go and put anybody into Hogglestock , Annabella , over Mr. Crawley 's head , '' said Anne . 
Mrs. Arabin gave the cheque to Crawley . 
`` I own I ca n't see why she should have given him Mr. Soames 's cheque , '' said Mr. Walker . 
`` But I do n't doubt but what she gave it him without telling the dean , and that Crawley thought it came from the dean . 
I do not know that I ever pitied a man so much in my life as I have pitied Mr. Crawley . '' 
`` It must have been a hard case when it has moved him , '' said Mr. Walker to Mr. Toogood as they left the clergyman 's house ; and then the Silverbridge attorney saw the attorney from London home to his inn . 
`` I do think he is an honest man and a fine fellow , '' said Miss Prettyman ; `` but , my dear , you know what the proverb says , ` There 's many a slip ` twixt the cup and the lip . 
News reached me last night which will clear Mr. Crawley altogether . 
We know now where he got the cheque . '' 
`` And how did he get it ? '' 
What we know is this , that your aunt has telegraphed to Crawley 's cousin , Toogood , to say that she gave Crawley that cheque , and that she has written to your father about it at length . 
We do not like to tell Crawley till that letter has been received . 
He could not but remember the terms on which he had left his father ; and though he had , most unwillingly , pulled down the auctioneer 's bills , in compliance with his mother 's last prayer to him , -- and , indeed , had angrily told the auctioneer to send him in his bill when the auctioneer had demurred to these proceedings , -- nevertheless he was hardly prepared to discuss the matter of Mr. Crawley with his father in pleasant words , -- in words which should be full of rejoicing . 
It was a great thing for him , Henry Grantly , that Mr. Crawley should be innocent , and he did rejoice ; but he had intended his father to understand that he meant to persevere , whether Mr. Crawley were innocent or guilty , and thus he would now lose an opportunity for exhibiting his obstinacy , -- an opportunity which had not been without a charm for him . 
He must console himself as best he might with the returning prospect of assured prosperity , and with his renewed hopes as to the Plumstead foxes ! 
So much he believed to be within his knowledge , and if his knowledge should prove to be correct , his work would be done as far as Mr. Crawley was concerned . 
If Mr. Crawley had not stolen the cheque , and if that could be proved , it would be a question of no great moment to Mr. Toogood who had stolen it . 
`` You 've heard about Mr. Soames and his cheque , and about Mr. Crawley , I daresay ? '' 
Nobody at the police office pretended to forget Mr. Soames 's cheque , or Mr. Crawley 's position . 
The constable went so far as to swear that there was n't a man , woman , or child in all Barchester who was not talking of Mr. Crawley at that very moment . 
said the mayor , with incredulity , when he first heard the news about Crawley . 
But when he heard Mr. Toogood 's story , or as much of it as it was necessary that he should hear , he yielded reluctantly . 
As the archbishop and his forgery would be to England , so was Mr. Crawley and the cheque for twenty pounds to Barchester and its mayor . 
He did not stop to tell Mrs. Baxter the whole story of Mr. Crawley 's innocence ; but having learned that a message had been received to say that Mrs. Arabin would be home on the next Tuesday , -- this being Friday , -- he took his leave of Mrs. Baxter . 
His next visit was to Mr. Soames , who lived three miles out in the country . 
Mr. Soames was more staunch in his belief of Mr. Crawley 's guilt than any one whom Toogood had yet encountered . 
The cheque had been dropped in Mr. Crawley 's house . 
said Mr. Soames , when Mr. Toogood spoke confidently of Crawley 's innocence . 
This had been written by the major on the Friday before Mr. Walker had brought up to him the tidings of Mr. Toogood and Mrs. Arabin 's solution of the Crawley difficulty ; but it did not reach Plumstead till the following morning . 
Within an hour of this the major had arrived at Plumstead , laden with the story of Mrs. Arabin and the cheque , and of Mr. Crawley 's innocence , -- laden not only with such tidings as he had received from Mr. Walker , but also with further details , which he had received from Mr. Toogood . 
Mr. Toogood had told him of his suspicions , -- how the red-nosed man had been stopped , and had been summoned as a witness for Mr. Crawley 's trial , -- and how he was now under the surveillance of the police . 
`` You may be sure Mr. Crawley will not get into the pulpit after his resignation , Mr. Thumble , '' said he . 
Mrs. Snapper spoke a word or two to Mrs. Crawley , and Mr. Snapper spoke a word or two to Mr. Crawley ; but not a word was said about the new news as to Mr. Soames 's cheque , which were now almost current in Barchester . 
`` One word with you , reverend sir , '' said Mr. Crawley to the chaplain , as the latter was coming out of the church , `` as to the parish work , sir , during the week ; -- I should be glad if you would favour me with your opinion . '' 
`` About what , Mr. Crawley ? '' 
`` Surely ; -- surely , Mr. Crawley . 
`` And the bishop will be obliged to you , Mr. Crawley , if you 'll just see that the things go on all straight . '' 
`` I wish it were possible to know with accuracy what his idea of straightness is , '' said Mr. Crawley to his wife . 
`` It may be that things are straight to him when they are buried as it were out of sight , and put away without trouble . 
`` Father , '' said he , giving the archdeacon his hand , `` you have heard nothing yet about Mr. Crawley ? '' 
Many ideas about Mr. Crawley at that moment flitted across the archdeacon 's mind . 
He got the cheque from my aunt . '' 
She has telegraphed over from Venice to say that she gave the identical cheque to Crawley . 
`` Crawley 's lawyer , -- a fellow named Toogood , a cousin of his wife 's ; -- a very decent fellow , '' added the major , remembering how necessary it was that he should reconcile his father to all the Crawley belongings . 
Crawley does not know himself at this moment how the cheque got into his hands . 
He must be told , and something must be settled about the living . 
They 've taken the living away from him among them . 
It was very hard for him to have to speak to his son about the Crawleys as though they were people in all respects estimable and well-conducted , and satisfactory . 
Mrs. Grantly understood this so well , that every now and then she said some half-laughing word respecting Mr. Crawley 's peculiarities , feeling that in this way she might ease her husband 's difficulties . 
The archdeacon shook his head , and rubbed his hands as he walked about the room . 
The archdeacon was perfectly aware that he had to admit Mr. Crawley to his goodwill , and that as for Grace Crawley , -- it was essentially necessary that she should be admitted to his heart of hearts . 
He had promised as much . 
It must be acknowledged that Archdeacon Grantly always kept his promises , and especially such promises as these . 
The posters had been pulled down and Mr. Crawley , as he was now told , had not stolen the cheque . 
If his son would only drink a glass or two of wine with him comfortably , and talk dutifully about the Plumstead foxes , all should be held to be right , and Grace Crawley should be received with lavish paternal embraces . 
The archdeacon had kissed Grace once , and felt that he could do so again without an unpleasant strain upon his feelings . 
Mrs. Arabin 's letter was long and eager , and full of repetitions , but it did explain clearly to them the exact manner in which the cheque had found its way into Mr. Crawley 's hand . 
The packet was not ready , and he would not wait , declaring that Mr. Crawley was in such a flurry that he did not like to leave him . 
At any rate , Mr. Crawley got Mr. Soames 's cheque from me . '' 
`` And the joke of it is , that he has been defending Crawley in Crawley 's teeth . 
Mr. Crawley had refused to employ counsel ; but Toogood had made up his mind to have a barrister , on purpose that there might be a fuss about it in court . 
He thought that it would tell with the jury in Crawley 's favour . '' 
`` Bring him here , and we 'll hear all about that from himself , '' said the archdeacon . 
It was already known that he was going to Plumstead that night , and it was partly understood that he was engaged with the Grantly and Arabin faction in defending Mr. Crawley the clergyman against the Proudie faction . 
So they got out at a farmhouse about half a mile from the church , where the offence of the carriage and livery-servant would be well out of Mr. Crawley 's sight , and from thence walked towards the parsonage . 
He had had his jokes about Dan Stringer , and had attempted to describe the absurdities of Mr. Crawley 's visit to Bedford Row . 
All this would have angered the major , had he not seen that it was assumed to cover something below of which Mr. Toogood was a little ashamed , but of which , as the major thought , Mr. Toogood had no cause to be ashamed . 
When , therefore , Toogood proposed to go into the school and bring Mr. Crawley out , as though the telling of their story would be the easiest thing in the world , the major did not stop him . 
Mr. Crawley was in the school ; -- as was also Jane Crawley . 
said Mr. Crawley , stepping down from his humble desk . 
Mr. Crawley was displeased . 
Then he went forth , and Mr. Crawley followed him . 
`` It 's all right , old fellow , '' he said , clapping his hand on Crawley 's shoulder . 
Mr. Crawley could hardly remember the time when he had been called an old fellow last , and now he did not like it ; nor , in the confusion of his mind , could he understand the allusion to the right sow . 
He supposed that Mr. Crawley had come to him about his trial , but it did not occur to him that the lawyer might be bringing him news which might make the trial altogether unnecessary . 
`` If my eyes are not mistaken , there is my friend , Major Grantly , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
Hereupon Crawley extended his hand . 
By this time Mr. Crawley was looking full into Mr. Toogood 's face , and seeing that his cousin 's eyes were streaming with tears , began to get some insight into the man 's character , and also some very dim insight into the facts which the man intended to communicate to himself . 
`` Mr. Crawley , '' said the major , `` I congratulate you with all my heart . 
`` I do not even yet altogether comprehend what has been told to me , '' said Crawley , now standing out on the road between the other two men . 
said Crawley , now altogether in the clouds . 
Though he had , no doubt , at different times heard all the circumstances of the connection , he had never realized the fact that his daughter 's lover was the nephew of his old friend , Arabin . 
said Crawley , drawing himself up . 
`` Gentlemen , '' said Mr. Crawley , `` I was sure of it . 
They passed on in silence for a few steps , till Crawley spoke again . 
When they entered the front door they saw the skirt of a woman 's dress flitting away through the door at the end of the passage , and on entering the room to the left they found Mr. Crawley alone . 
`` She has fled , as though from an enemy , '' he said , with a little attempt at a laugh ; `` but I will pursue her , and bring her back . '' 
`` No , Crawley , no , '' said the lawyer . 
When the door was opened , Mr. Crawley appeared , leading his wife by the hand . 
`` My dear , '' he said , `` you know Major Grantly . 
`` She was never like this , sirs , when ill news came to us , '' said Mr. Crawley , standing somewhat apart from her . 
The major sat himself by her side , and put his hand upon hers , and whispered some word to her about her daughter . 
Upon this she threw her arms around him , and kissed his face , and then his hands , and then looked up into his face through her tears . 
I doubt whether the major understood their meaning , but he knew very well what was in her heart . 
As they were going , Grantly , -- speaking now altogether with indifference as to Toogood 's presence , -- asked Mr. Crawley 's leave to be the bearer of these tidings to his daughter . 
`` She can hear it in no tones that can be more grateful to her , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
`` Major Grantly , '' said Mr. Crawley , solemnly , `` I respect you so highly , and esteem you so thoroughly , that I give willingly that which you ask . 
After their departure Jane was sent for , that she might hear the family news ; and when she expressed some feeling not altogether in favour of Mr. Toogood , Mr. Crawley thus strove to correct her views . 
`` Crawley is all right , and I think I 've got the real Simon Pure by the heels . '' 
He had done everything in the most expensive way , feeling that every napoleon wasted had been laid out on behalf of Mr. Crawley . 
But , as Mrs. Toogood had just told him , all this was nothing to what Toogood was doing . 
He told them , therefore , of his adventures abroad , and of Crawley 's escape . 
Mr. Toogood , in spite of his asseveration that he would not budge from Barchester till he had seen Mr. Crawley through all his troubles , did run up to London as soon as the news reached him that John Eames had returned . 
It might still be necessary , Mrs. Arabin was told , that she should go into court , and there state on oath that she had given the cheque to Mr. Crawley ; but Mr. Walker was of opinion that the circumstances would enable the judge to call upon the grand jury not to find a true bill against Mr. Crawley , and that the whole affair , as far as Mr. Crawley was concerned , would thus be brought to an end . 
Dan had been examined before the magistrates at Barchester , and had persisted in his statement that he had heard nothing about Mr. Crawley and the cheque . 
This he said in the teeth of the words which had fallen from him unawares in the presence of Mr. Toogood . 
He was not upon oath , and they could not make him responsible to the law because he had held his tongue upon a matter as to which it was manifest to them all that he had known the whole history during the entire period of Mr. Crawley 's persecution . 
They could only call upon him to account for his possession of the cheque , and this he did by saying it had been paid to him by Jem Scuttle , who received all moneys appertaining to the hotel stables , and accounted for them once a week . 
Jem Scuttle had simply told him that he had taken the cheque from Mr. Soames , and Jem had since gone to New Zealand . 
The story , however , of Mr. Crawley 's injuries was so well known in Barchester , and the feeling against the man who had permitted him to be thus injured was so strong , that Dan Stringer did not altogether escape without punishment . 
After reading this letter , Mrs. Arabin could not wait in town for her husband , even though he was expected in two days , and though she had been told that her presence at Barchester was not immediately required on behalf of Mr. Crawley . 
She had already heard the whole story of Mr. Soames 's cheque , and expressed her conviction that the least that could be done in amends to Mr. Crawley was to make him a bishop . 
It was I who gave the cheque to Mr. Crawley . '' 
Toogood was full of his triumph about Mr. Crawley and of his successes in Barsetshire . 
As for Crawley himself , '' Mr. Toogood continued , `` he 's not like anybody else that ever was born , saint or sinner , parson or layman . 
Then she did put up her handkerchief , making believe that her tears had been due to Mr. Crawley . 
He had latterly been much interested about Mr. Crawley , and would make both the archdeacon and Mrs. Grantly tell him all that they heard , and what they thought of the case . 
said the archdeacon , thinking , however , of sheep who were black with a different kind of blackness from this which was now attributed to poor Mr. Crawley , -- of a blackness which was not absolute blackness to Mr. Harding 's milder eyes . 
No amount of evidence would induce your father to think that Mr. Crawley stole that money . '' 
`` As far as that goes I agree with him , '' said Mrs. Grantly , who had her own reasons for choosing to believe Mr. Crawley to be innocent . 
`` I 'm sick of Mr. Crawley , and I 'm sorry I spoke of him , '' said the archdeacon . 
There were the double tidings to be told , -- those of Mr. Crawley 's assured innocence , and those also of Mrs. Arabin 's instant return . 
`` What will Mr. Crawley do now , do you suppose ? '' 
`` What will he do ? '' 
`` Yes ; must he go on at Hogglestock ? '' 
`` It is a pity something could not be done for him after all he has undergone . 
How on earth can he be expected to live there with a wife and family , and no private means ? '' 
A word too much might , as she well knew , settle the question against Mr. Crawley for ever . 
`` I have n't thought about it , '' he said sharply . 
She would have said as much as she had intended to say if she had succeeded in making the archdeacon understand that St. Ewold 's would be a very nice refuge for Mr. Crawley after all the miseries which he had endured at Hogglestock . 
But still there was the news to be told of Mr. Crawley , and there was also joy to be expressed at the sudden coming back of the much-wished-for mistress of the deanery . 
They could not begin immediately to tell him of Mr. Crawley , but as soon as his mind had turned itself away from the thoughts of his absent daughter , Mrs. Grantly again reverted to her news . 
`` We have come to tell you about Mr. Crawley , papa . '' 
`` What about him ? '' 
`` He is quite innocent . '' 
`` As far as he is concerned , everything is found out , '' said Mrs. Grantly . 
`` Eleanor gave him the cheque herself . '' 
Then they came to discuss Mr. Crawley 's present position , and Mr. Harding ventured to ask a question or two as to Grace 's chance of marriage . 
`` I do n't like to interfere , '' he said ; `` but might not Mr. Crawley have St. Ewold 's ? '' 
The final arrangements of his tour , as well as those of his wife , had been made to depend on Mr. Crawley 's trial ; for he also had been hurried back by John Eames 's visit to Florence . 
`` I should have come at once , '' he said to his wife , `` when they wrote to ask me whether Crawley had taken the cheque from me , had anybody then told me that he was in actual trouble ; but I had no idea then that they were charging him with theft . '' 
`` As far as I can learn , they never really suspected him until after your answer had come . 
`` What he must have endured it is impossible to conceive . 
I shall go out to him to-morrow . '' 
`` Would he not come to us ? '' 
I will ask him , of course . 
Since the day on which he had brought Mr. Crawley from a curacy in Cornwall into the diocese of Barchester , his friend had been a trouble to him rather than a joy . 
For , though the dean was hardly to be called a rich man , his lines had fallen to him not only in pleasant places , but in easy circumstances ; -- and Mr. Crawley 's embarrassments , though overwhelming to him , were not so great as to have been heavy to the dean . 
Crawley would attempt to argue with him as to the improper allotment of Church endowments , -- declaring that he did not do so with any reference to his own circumstances , but simply because the subject was one naturally interesting to clergymen . 
And this he would do , as he was waving off with his hand offers of immediate assistance which were indispensable . 
After that the gifts had come from the hands of Mrs. Arabin ; -- and then again , after that , in the direst hour of his need , Crawley had himself come and taken money from the dean 's hands ! 
The interview had been so painful that Arabin would hardly have been able to count the money or to know of what it had consisted , had he taken the notes and cheque out of the envelope in which his wife had put them . 
Arabin as yet knew but little of the manner in which they had been borne , except that Crawley had felt himself compelled to resign the living of Hogglestock . 
He knew nothing of Mrs. Proudie 's persecution , except what he gathered from the fact of the clerical commission of which he had been informed ; but he could imagine that Mrs. Proudie would not lie easy on her bed while a clergyman was doing duty almost under her nose , who was guilty of the double offence of being accused of a theft , and of having been put into his living by the dean . 
He heard voices inside , but could not distinguish from them whether Mr. Crawley was there or not . 
Slowly he opened the door , and looking round saw that Jane Crawley was in the ascendant . 
Jane did not know him at once , but told him when he had introduced himself that her father had gone down to Hoggle End . 
He had started two hours ago , but it was impossible to say when he might be back . 
Then they waited for a few minutes till Mr. Crawley came up , very hot , wiping the sweat form his forehead . 
`` Crawley , '' said the dean , `` I can not tell you how glad I am to see you , and how rejoiced I am that this accusation has fallen off from you . '' 
It has not been possible in these pages to tell of all the advice that had been given to the ladies of the Crawley family in their great difficulty , and of all the assistance that had been offered . 
The communications to Mrs. Crawley had been very frequent , -- though they had not of course been allowed to reach the ears of Mr. Crawley . 
What was to be done when the living should be gone and Mr. Crawley should be in prison ? 
Some said that he might be there for six weeks , and some for two years . 
And what was to be done for Mr. Crawley ? 
`` It was a narrow squeak -- a very narrow squeak , '' Mr. Crawley had said when his friend congratulated him on his escape . 
The dean felt at the moment that not for many years had he heard the incumbent of Hogglestock speak either of himself or of anything else with so manifest an attempt at jocularity . 
Crawley having thus alluded to the narrow squeak had asked his visitor to enter the house and see his wife . 
`` There is nothing to be forgiven , '' said Mr. Crawley ; `` nothing . '' 
`` It was given , -- not paid , '' said Crawley ; and as he spoke something of the black cloud came back upon his face . 
`` I fancy that I should know , -- should know enough , '' said the illogical and unreasonable Mr. Crawley . 
`` It is all there , Crawley , -- just as your knowledge of it tells you . '' 
The last word he uttered after a pause . 
He had been about to say that under such temptation he could almost envy a man his promotion ; but he bethought himself that on such an occasion as this it would be better that he should spare the dean . 
So saying , he strode on along the little path , and the dean was fain to follow him , even though he had said so little of all that he had intended to say . 
`` Let it go , '' said Crawley , after sitting for awhile in silence ; `` let it pass . '' 
`` You can not wonder , Crawley , '' said the dean , `` that I should have felt myself obliged to speak of it . '' 
`` For the future it will be well that it should be forgotten , '' said Crawley ; `` or , if not forgotten , treated as though forgotten . 
Arabin remained there for more than an hour , trying to pass on to another subject , but being constantly brought back by Mr. Crawley himself to the fact of his own dependent position . 
Nor would he condescend to supplicate the bishop . 
It was , he surmised , the duty of Dr. Tempest , together with the other four clergymen , to report to the bishop on the question of the alleged theft ; and then doubtless the bishop , when he had duly considered the report , and , -- as Mr. Crawley seemed to think was essentially necessary , -- had sufficiently recovered from the grief at his wife 's death , would , at his leisure , communicate his decision to Mr. Crawley . 
Nothing could be more complete than Mr. Crawley 's humility in reference to the bishop ; and he never seemed to be tired of declaring that he had submitted himself ! 
And then the dean , finding it to be vain to expect to be left alone with Mr. Crawley for a moment , -- in vain also to wait for a proper opening for that which he had to say , -- rushed violently at his other subject . 
`` And now , Mrs. Crawley , '' he said , `` Mrs. Arabin wishes you all to come over to the deanery for a while and stay with us . '' 
Come , Crawley , I 'll talk to you every evening about Jerusalem for as long as you please ; -- and then there will perhaps come back to us something of the pleasantness of old days . '' 
`` You can not fancy , Crawley , how often I have thought of the old days and wished that they might return . 
`` It may hardly be as you say , '' said Crawley , grimly . 
This Mr. Crawley said very gravely , looking neither to the right nor to the left , nor at the face of any of them , nor at his own garment , nor at hers , but straight before him ; and when he had so spoken he said not a word further , -- not going on to dilate on his poverty as the dean expected that he would do . 
Upon the whole the dean thought it the pleasantest visit he had ever made to Hogglestock , and when he got home he told his wife that he believed that the accusation made against Mr. Crawley had done him good . 
`` I could not say a word in private to her , '' he said , `` but I did promise that you would go and see her . '' 
Sir Raffle could not get a word out from him about Mr. Crawley . 
He was very grave , and intent upon his work . 
Indeed he was so serious that he quite afflicted Sir Raffle , -- whose mock activity felt itself to be confounded by the official zeal of his private secretary . 
Mr. Snapper , when he had completed the service on the first of these Sundays , intimated to Mr. Crawley his opinion that probably that gentleman might himself wish to resume the duties on the following Sabbath . 
Mr. Crawley , however , courteously declined to do anything of the kind . 
He said that it was quite out of the question that he should do so without a direct communication made to him from the bishop , or by the bishop 's order . 
Mr. Snapper was not the less clearly of opinion that Mr. Crawley might resume his duties . 
To this , however , Mr. Crawley would not assent . 
But even during the fortnight Mr. Crawley had not remained altogether neglected . 
Mr. Crawley had no ambitious idea of any comfort which might accrue to him beyond that of an honourable return to his humble preferment at Hogglestock ; but , nevertheless , he was in this case minded to do as the dean counselled him . 
On the day after the funeral , the bishop had sent his compliments to the dean with the expression of a wish that the dean would call upon him on any early day that might be convenient with reference to the position of Mr. Crawley of Hogglestock . 
He declared at first that as it was his primary duty to give to the people of St. Ewolds the best clergyman he could select for them he could not give the preferment to Mr. Crawley , because Mr. Crawley , in spite of all his zeal and piety , was a man so quaint in his manners and so eccentric in his mode of speech as not to be the best clergyman whom he could select . 
What if he conferred the living of St. Ewolds on Mr. Crawley and after all there should be no marriage between his son and Grace ? 
Then the archdeacon gave way so far as to promise that St. Ewolds should be offered to Mr. Crawley as soon as Grace Crawley was in truth engaged to Harry Grantly . 
What are we to do , Mr. Dean , about this poor Mr. Crawley ? '' 
`` Mr. Crawley is a very old friend of mine , and a very dear friend . '' 
Then the dean unfolded his budget , and explained to the bishop how he hoped that the living of St. Ewolds , which was , after some ecclesiastical fashion , attached to the rectory of Plumstead , and which was now vacant by the demise of Mr. Harding , might be conferred by the archdeacon upon Mr. Crawley . 
The bishop , the dean said , might easily understand that , after what had occurred , Mr. Crawley would hardly wish to go again into that pulpit , unless he did so as resuming duties which would necessarily be permanent with him . 
`` I should have thought , Mr. Dean , '' he said , `` that Mr. Crawley was the last man to have suited the archdeacon 's choice . '' 
I am sure I shall be delighted to institute so worthy a gentleman as Mr. Crawley . '' 
It has been just said that though the assizes had passed by and though all question of Mr. Crawley 's guilt was now set aside , no visitor had of late made his way over to Hogglestock . 
Mr. Crawley himself was away , at Hoggle End , and did not return till after Major Grantly had left the parsonage . 
After a while Mrs. Crawley came in , and there was much pleasant talking among them , while Henry Grantly sat happily with his love , as though waiting for Mr. Crawley 's return . 
But though he was there nearly all the morning Mr. Crawley did not return . 
Before Grace had said this , Major Grantly had told all his story , and had produced a letter from his father , addressed to Mr. Crawley , of which the reader shall have a copy , although at this time the letter had not been opened . 
This letter the archdeacon had shown to his wife , by whom it had not been very warmly approved . 
But Mr. Crawley was such a strange man ! 
The reader may probably feel assured that the archdeacon had never , during their joint lives , acted in any church matter upon the advice given to him by Mr. Harding ; and it was probably the case also that the living would have been offered to Mr. Crawley , if nothing had been said by Mr. Harding on the subject ; but it did not become Mrs. Grantly even to think of all this . 
Mrs. Crawley did not dare to put forward the plain unadorned reasons against it , as Mr. Crawley had done when discussing the subject of a visit to the deanery . 
It was four before Mr. Crawley returned to his house , and then he was very weary . 
There were many sick in these days at Hoggle End , and he had gone from cottage to cottage through the day . 
It was more than a week before the archdeacon received a reply from Mr. Crawley , during which time the dean had been over at Hogglestock more than once , as had also Mrs. Arabin and Lady Lufton the younger , -- and there had been letters written without end , and the archdeacon had been nearly beside himself . 
`` A man who pretends to conscientious scruples of that kind is not fit to have a parish , '' he had said to his wife . 
His wife understood what he meant , and I trust that the reader may also understand it . 
But at last Mr. Crawley condescended to accept St. Ewolds . 
`` Reverend and dear Sir , '' he said in his letter . 
said the archdeacon , who professed that he did not at all like the letter . 
The archdeacon was never rough to her , nor did he make any of his harsh remarks about her father in her presence . 
Mr. Crawley had at first declared that such a thing was quite out of the question . 
And I think that it would have been impossible for him to go direct from Hogglestock to Plumstead . 
Mr. Harding 's curate at St. Ewolds was nominated to Hogglestock , and the dean urged upon his friend Crawley the expediency of giving up the house as quickly as he could do so . 
Gradually at this time Mr. Crawley had been forced into a certain amount of intimacy with the haunts of men . 
He had been twice or thrice at Barchester , and had lunched with the dean . 
`` Any man can utter out of a full heart , '' Crawley had answered . 
On the day after this the Crawleys took their final departure from Hogglestock , all the brickmakers from Hoggle End having assembled on the occasion , with a purse containing seventeen pounds seven shillings and sixpence , which they insisted on presenting to Mr. Crawley , and as to which there was a little difficulty . 
Suffice to say , the raiment was forthcoming , and Mr. Crawley found himself to be the perplexed possessor of a black dress coat , in addition to the long frock , coming nearly to his feet , which was provided for his daily wear . 
The new black long frock , I think Mr. Crawley liked ; but the dress coat , with the suit complete , perplexed him sorely . 
With his new coats , and something , also , of new manners , he and his wife went over to Plumstead , leaving Jane at the deanery with Mrs. Arabin . 
Before Mr. Crawley had had time to feel himself lost in the drawing-room , he was summoned away to prepare himself for dinner , -- for dinner , and for the coat , which at the deanery he had been allowed to leave unworn . 
`` I would with all my heart that I might retire to rest , '' he said to his wife , when the ceremony had been perfected . 
`` I have been told , '' said Mr. Crawley , `` that you shall take a cock which is lord of the farmyard , -- the cock of all that walk , -- and when you have daubed his feathers with mud , he shall be thrashed by every dunghill coward . 
Then he went down among the other poultry into the farmyard . 
At dinner he was very silent , answering , however , with a sort of graceful stateliness any word that Mrs. Grantly addressed to him . 
And Lady Anne Grantly was there , -- she having come with the expressed intention that the wives of the two brothers should know each other , -- but with a warmer desire , I think , of seeing Mr. Crawley , of whom the clerical world had been talking much since some notice of the accusation against him had become general . 
There were , therefore , ten or twelve at the dinner-table , and Mr. Crawley had not made one at such a board certainly since his marriage . 
All went fairly smooth with him till the ladies left the room ; for though Lady Anne , who sat at his left hand , had perplexed him somewhat with clerical questions , he had found that he was not called upon for much more than monosyllabic responses . 
But in his heart he feared the archdeacon , and he felt that when the ladies were gone the archdeacon would not leave him alone in his silence . 
`` I think I know the domestic whereabouts of every fox in Plumstead , '' said the archdeacon , with an ill-natured intention of astonishing Mr. Crawley . 
Pass the bottle , Mr. Crawley . 
Mr. Crawley passed the bottle , but would not fill his glass . 
You have heard him , Mr. Crawley ? '' 
`` It is usually in the printed from that I have received it , '' said Mr. Crawley . 
`` He is a man whose conversation is not pleasing to me , '' Mr. Crawley said to his wife that night . 
`` Do not judge of him too quickly , Josiah , '' his wife said . 
She said nothing more to him , knowing well how useless it was to attempt to turn him by any argument . 
To her thinking the kidness of the archdeacon to them personally demanded some indulgence in the expression , and even in the formation , of an opinion , respecting his clerical peculiarities . 
On the next day , however , Mr. Crawley , having been summoned by the archdeacon into the library for a little private conversation , found that he got on better with him . 
How the archdeacon conquered him may perhaps be best described by a further narration of what Mr. Crawley said to his wife . 
` My dear Crawley , ' the archdeacon said , -- for of late there seems to have grown up in the world a habit of greater familiarity than that which I think did prevail when last I moved much among men ; -- ` my dear Crawley , I have enough for both . ' 
Then as he answered me , he rose from his chair . 
` We stand , ' said he , ` on the only perfect level on which such men can meet each other . 
`` He took down from the shelves a volume of sermons which his father published many years ago , and presented it to me . 
And thus the archdeacon had hit his bird on both wings . 
Early in July , Henry Grantly and Grace Crawley were married in the parish church of Plumstead , -- a great impropriety , as to which neither Archdeacon Grantly nor Mr. Crawley could be got to assent for a long time , but which was at last carried , not simply by a union of Mrs. Grantly and Mrs. Crawley , nor even by the assistance of Mrs. Arabin , but by the strong intervention of old Lady Lufton herself . 
When Lady Lufton thus spoke , the archdeacon gave way , and Mr. Crawley had n't a leg to stand upon . 
Mr. Crawley was the officiating priest . 
With his hands dropping before him , folded humbly , he told the archdeacon , -- when that Plumstead question had been finally settled in opposition to his wishes , -- that he would fain himself perform the ceremony by which his dearest daughter would be bound to her marriage duties . 
Mr. Crawley muttered that he had not known how far his reverend brother might have been willing to waive his rights . 
But the archdeacon , who was in high good humour , -- having just bestowed a little pony carriage on his new daughter-in-law , -- only laughed at him ; and , if the rumour which was handed about the families be true , the archdeacon , before the interview was over , had poked Mr. Crawley in the ribs . 
Mr. Crawley married them ; but the archdeacon assisted , -- and the dean gave away the bride . 
