And this present writer having for many years of his life been a devout Brown-worshipper , and moreover having the honour of being nearly connected with an eminently respectable branch of the great Brown family , is anxious , so far as in him lies , to help the wheel over , and throw his stone on to the pile . 
Wherever hard knocks of any kind , visible or invisible , are going , there the Brown who is nearest must shove in his carcase . 
It is an impossibility to a Brown to leave the most disreputable lame dog on the other side of a stile . 
It was the first dramatic representation which greeted the eyes of little Tom , who was brought down into the kitchen by his nurse to witness it , at the mature age of three years . 
Tom was the eldest child of his parents , and from his earliest babyhood exhibited the family characteristics in great strength . 
He was a hearty strong boy from the first , given to fighting with and escaping from his nurse , and fraternizing with all the village boys , with whom he made expeditions all round the neighbourhood . 
And here in the quiet old-fashioned country village , under the shadow of the everlasting hills , Tom Brown was reared , and never left it till he went first to school when nearly eight years of age , -- for in those days change of air twice a-year was not thought absolutely necessary for the health of all her Majesty 's lieges . 
A visit to Reading or Abingdon twice a-year , at Assizes or Quarter Sessions , which the Squire made on his horse with a pair of saddlebags containing his wardrobe , a stay of a day or two at some country neighbour 's , or an expedition to a county ball or the yeomanry review , made up the sum of the Brown locomotion in most years . 
A stray Brown from some distant county dropped in every now and then , or from Oxford on grave nag , an old don contemporary of the Squire ; and were looked upon by the Brown household , and the villagers , with the same sort of feeling with which we now regard a man who has crossed the Rocky mountains , or launched a boat on the great Lake in Central Africa . 
Standing I say , but you could never see whether they were standing or sitting , all but their heads and shoulders being out of sight in the cozy little cabins which occupied some eight feet of the stern , and which Tom Brown pictured to himself as the most desirable of residences . 
His nurse told him that those goodnatured-looking women were in the constant habit of enticing children into the barges , and taking them up to London and selling them , which Tom would n't believe , and which made him resolve as soon as possible to accept the oft-proferred invitation of these sirens to `` young Master , '' to come in and have a ride . 
But as yet the nurse was too much for Tom . 
So , as we are going at any rate to see Tom Brown through his boyhood , supposing we never get any further , -LRB- which , if you shew a proper sense of the value of this history , there is no knowing but what we may , -RRB- let us have a look at the life and environments of the child , in the quiet country village to which we were introduced in the last chapter . 
Tom , as has been already said , was a robust and combative urchin , and at the age of four began to struggle against the yoke and authority of his nurse . 
That functionary was a good-hearted , tearful , scatterbrained girl , lately taken by Tom 's mother , Madam Brown as she was called , from the village school to be trained as nurserymaid . 
Tom 's nurse was one who took in her instruction very slowly , -- she seemed to have two left hands and no head ; and so Mrs. Brown kept her on longer than usual , that she might expend her awkwardness and forgetfulness upon those who would not judge and punish her too strictly for them . 
Well , from early morn till dewy eve , when she had it out of him in the cold tub before putting him to bed , Charity and Tom were pitted against one another . 
Physical power was as yet on the side of Charity , but she had ` nt a chance with him wherever head-work was wanted . 
This war of independence began every morning before breakfast , when Charity escorted her charge to a neighbouring farm-house which supplied the Browns , and where , by his mother 's wish , Master Tom went to drink whey before breakfast . 
Tom had no sort of objection to whey , but he had a decided liking for curds , which were forbidden as unwholesome , and there was seldom a morning that he did not manage to secure a handful of hard curds , in defiance of Charity and of the farmer 's wife . 
The moment Charity had found her cousin , or any other occupation , Tom would slip away ; and in a minute shrill cries would be heard from the dairy , `` Charity , Charity , thee lazy huzzy , where bist ? '' 
and Tom would break cover , hands and mouth full of curds , and take refuge on the shaky surface of the great muck reservoir in the middle of the yard , disturbing the repose of the great pigs . 
Here he was in safety , as no grown person could follow without getting over their knees ; and the luckless Charity , while her aunt scolded her from the dairy-door , for being `` allus hankering about arter our Willum , instead of minding Master Tom , '' would descend from threats to coaxing , to lure Tom out of the muck , which was rising over his shoes , and would soon tell a tale on his stockings , for which she would be sure to catch it from missus 's maid . 
Tom had two abettors in the shape of a couple of old boys , Noah and Benjamin by name , who defended him from Charity , and expended much time upon his education . 
He talked to Tom quite as if he were one of his own family , and indeed had long completely identified the Browns with himself . 
In some remote age he had been the attendant of a Miss Brown , and had conveyed her about the country on a pillion . 
He had a little round picture of the identical grey horse , caparisoned with the identical pillion , before which he used to do a sort of fetish worship , and abuse turnpike-roads and carriages . 
He wore an old full-bottomed wig , the gift of some dandy old Brown whom he had valeted in the middle of last century , which habiliment Master Tom looked upon with considerable respect , not to say fear , and indeed his whole feeling towards Noah was strongly tainted with awe ; and when the old gentleman was gathered to his fathers , Tom 's lamentation over him was not unaccompanied by a certain joy at having seen the last of the wig : `` Poor old Noah , dead and gone , '' said he , `` Tom Brown so sorry ! 
Put him in the coffin , wig and all . '' 
It was he who bent the first pin , with which Tom extracted his first stickleback out of `` pebbly brook , '' the little stream which ran through the village . 
Tom kept him in a small basin until the day of his death , and became a fisherman from that day . 
Within a month from the taking of the first stickleback , Benjy had carried off our hero to the canal in defiance of Charity , and between them , after a whole afternoon 's popjoying , they had caught three or four small coarse fish and a perch , averaging perhaps two-and-a-half inches each , which Tom bore home in rapture to his mother as a precious gift , and she received like a true mother with equal rapture , instructing the cook nevertheless in a private interview , not to prepare the same for the Squire 's dinner . 
Charity had appealed against old Benjy in the mean time , representing the dangers of the canal banks ; but Mrs. Brown , seeing the boy 's inaptitude for female guidance , had decided in Benjy 's favour , and from thenceforth the old man was Tom 's dry nurse . 
And as they sat by the canal watching their little green-and-white float , Benjy would instruct him in the doings of deceased Browns . 
How his grandfather , in the early days of the great war , when there was much distress and crime in the Vale , and the magistrates had been threatened by the mob , had ridden in with a big stick in his hand , and held the Petty Sessions by himself . 
How his great uncle , the Rector , had encountered and laid the last ghost , who had frightened the old women , male and female , of the parish out of their senses , and who turned out to be the blacksmith 's apprentice , disguised in drink and a white sheet . 
It was Benjy too who saddled Tom 's first pony , and instructed him in the mysteries of horsemanship , teaching him to throw his weight back and keep his hand low ; and who stood chuckling outside the door of the girls ' school , when Tom rode his little Shetland into the cottage and round the table , where the old dame and her pupils were seated at their work . 
Some half-dozen of his brothers and kinsmen had gone to the wars , of whom only one had survived to come home , with a small pension , and three bullets in different parts of his body ; he had shared Benjy 's cottage till his death , and had left him his old dragoon 's sword and pistol , which hung over the mantel-piece , flanked by a pair of heavy single-sticks , with which Benjy himself had won renown long ago as an old gamester , against the picked men of Wiltshire and Somersetshire in many a good bout at the revels and pastimes of the country-side . 
For he had been a famous back-sword man in his young days , and a good wrestler at elbow and collar . 
No one in the village enjoyed the approach of `` veast day '' more than Tom , in the year in which he was taken under old Benjy 's tutelage . 
But the object of most interest to Benjy , and of course to his pupil also , was the stage of rough planks some four feet high , which was being put up by the village carpenter for the backswording and wrestling ; and after surveying the whole tenderly , old Benjy led his charge away to the road-side inn , where he ordered a glass of ale and a long pipe for himself , and discussed these unwonted luxuries on the bench outside in the soft autumn evening with mine host , another old servant of the Browns , and speculated with him on the likelihood of a good show of old gamesters to contend for the morrow 's prizes , and told tales of the gallant bouts of forty years back , to which Tom listened with all his ears and eyes . 
But who shall tell the joy of the next morning , when the church bells were ringing a merry peal , and old Benjy appeared in the servants ' hall resplendent in a long blue coat and brass buttons , and a pair of old yellow buckskins and top-boots , which he had cleaned for and inherited from Tom 's grandfather ; a stout thornstick in his hand , and a nosegay of pinks and lavender in his button-hole , and led away Tom in his best clothes , and two new shillings in his breeches-pockets ? 
And they carry him off to load him with fairings ; and he returns to Benjy , his hat and coat covered with ribands , and his pockets crammed with wonderful boxes which open upon ever new boxes and boxes , and popguns , and trumpets , and apples , and gilt gingerbread from the stall of Angel Heavens , sole vendor thereof , whose booth groans with kings and queens , and elephants , and prancing steeds , all gleaming with gold . 
And then they inspect the penny peep-show , at least Tom does , while old Benjy stands outside and gossips , and walks up the steps , and enters the mysterious doors of the pink-eyed lady , and the Irish Giant , who do not by any means come up to their pictures , and the boa will not swallow his rabbit , but there the rabbit is waiting to be swallowed -- and what can you expect for tuppence ? 
It is great fun to look at a jingling match certainly , and Tom shouts and jumps on old Benjy 's shoulders at the sight , until the old man feels weary and shifts him to the strong young shoulders of the groom who has just got down to the fun . 
They are both in famous wind , and there is no crying `` hold ; '' the shepherd is an old hand and up to all the dodges ; he tries them one after another , and very nearly gets at Willum 's head by coming in near , and playing over his guard at the half-stick , but somehow Willum blunders through , catching the stick on his shoulders , neck , sides every now and then , anywhere but on his head , and his returns are heavy and straight , and he is the youngest gamester , and a favourite in the parish , and his gallant stand brings down shouts and cheers , and the knowing ones think he 'll win if he keeps steady , and Tom on the groom 's shoulders holds his hands together , and can hardly breathe for excitement . 
his sweetheart getting tired of female companionship has been hunting the booths to see where he can have got to , and now catches sight of him on the stage in full combat . 
She flushes and turns pale ; her old aunt catches hold of her , saying , `` Bless ` ee , child , doa n't ` ee go a ` nigst it ; '' but she breaks away , and runs towards the stage calling his name . 
Tom hears him say coaxingly as he walks off -- `` Now doa n't ` ee , Rachel ! 
Tom resolves in his heart to give Willum the remainder of his two shillings after the back-swording . 
Tom is carried away by old Benjy dog-tired and surfeited with pleasure , as the evening comes on and the dancing begins in the booths ; and though Willum and Rachel in her new ribbons and many another good lad and lass do n't come away just yet , but have a good step out , and enjoy it , and get no harm thereby , yet we being sober folk will just stroll away up through the churchyard , and by the old yew-tree ; and get a quiet dish of tea and a parle with our gossips , as the steady ones of our village do , and so to bed . 
It was as much as he could do now , with the help of his big stick and frequent stops , to hobble down to the canal with Master Tom , and bait his hook for him , and sit and watch his angling , telling him quaint old country stories ; and when Tom had no sport , and detecting a rat some hundred yards or so off along the bank would rush off with Toby the turnspit-terrier , his other faithful companion , in bootless pursuit , he might have tumbled in and been drowned twenty times over before Benjy could have got near him . 
So he tried everything he could think of to get set up . 
He even went an expedition to the dwelling of one of those queer mortals , who , say what we will , and reason how we will , do cure simple people of diseases of one kind or another without the aid of physic , and so get to themselves the reputation of using charms , and inspire for themselves and their dwellings great respect , not to say fear , amongst a simple folk such as the dwellers in the Vale of White Horse . 
Of this latter sort was old farmer Ives , as he was called , the `` wise man '' to whom Benjy resorted , taking Tom with him as usual , in the early spring of the year next after the feast described in the last chapter . 
Why he was called farmer I can not say , unless it be that he was the owner of a cow , a pig or two , and some poultry , which he maintained on about an acre of land enclosed from the middle of a wild common , on which probably his father had squatted before lords of manors looked as keenly after their rights as they do now . 
Here he had lived no one knew how long , a solitary man . 
His dwelling was some miles from our village ; so Benjy , who was half ashamed of his errand , and wholly unable to walk there , had to exercise much ingenuity to get the means of transporting himself and Tom thither without exciting suspicion . 
However , one fine May morning he managed to borrow the old blind pony of our friend the publican , and Tom persuaded Madam Brown to give him a holiday to spend with old Benjy , and to lend them the Squire 's light cart , stored with bread and cold meat and a bottle of ale . 
Benjy hailed him as an old friend , and he returned the greeting cordially enough , looking however hard for a moment both at Benjy and Tom , to see whether there was more in their visit than appeared at first sight . 
It was a work of some difficulty and danger for Benjy to reach the ground , which -- however he managed to do without mishap ; and then he devoted himself to unharnessing Dobbin , and turning him out for a graze -LRB- `` a run '' one could not say of that virtuous steed -RRB- on the common . 
A big old lurcher got up slowly from the door-stone , stretching first one hind leg and then the other , and taking Tom 's caresses and the presence of Toby , who kept however at a respectful distance , with equal indifference . 
Tom played about with some kittens who occupied the hearth , and with a goat who walked demurely in at the open door , while their host and Benjy spread the table for dinner , and was soon engaged in conflict with the cold meat , to which he did much honor . 
The two old men 's talk was of old comrades and their deeds , mute inglorious Miltons of the Vale , and of the doings of thirty years back , which did n't interest him much , except when they spoke of the making of the canal , and then indeed he began to listen with all his ears ; and learned to his no small wonder that his dear and wonderful canal had not been there always -- was not in fact so old as Benjy or farmer Ives , which caused a strange commotion in his small brain . 
After dinner Benjy called attention to a wart which Tom had on his knuckles of his hand , and which the family doctor had been trying his skill on without success , and begged the farmer to charm it away . 
Farmer Ives looked at it , muttered something or another over it , and cut some notches in a short stick , which he handed to Benjy , giving him instructions for cutting it down on certain days , and cautioning Tom not to meddle with the wart for a fortnight . 
And then they strolled out and sat on a bench in the sun with their pipes , and the pigs came up and grunted sociably and let Tom scratch them ; and the farmer , seeing how he liked animals , stood up and held his arms in the air and gave a call , which brought a flock of pigeons wheeling and dashing through the birch-trees . 
All the creatures about the place were clean and fearless , quite unlike their relations elsewhere ; and Tom begged to be taught how to make all the pigs and cows and poultry in our village tame , at which the farmer only gave one of his grim chuckles . 
He hoped the farmer could charm it away as easily as he could Tom 's wart , and was ready with equal faith to put another notched stick into his other pocket , for the cure of his own ailments . 
The physician shook his head , but nevertheless produced a bottle and handed it to Benjy with instructions for use . 
`` Not as ` t 'll do'e much good -- leastways I be afeard not , '' shading his eyes with his hand and looking up at them in the cart ; `` there 's only one thing as I knows on , as 'll cure old folk like you and I o ' th ' rhumatis . '' 
Tom 's wart was gone in a fortnight , but not so Benjy 's rheumatism , which laid him by the heels more and more . 
And though Tom still spent many an hour with him , as he sat on a bench in the sunshine , or by the chimney corner when it was cold , he soon had to seek elsewhere for his regular companions . 
Tom had been accustomed often to accompany his mother in her visits to the cottages , and had thereby made acquaintance with many of the village boys of his own age . 
The first time Tom went to their cottage with his mother , Job was not in doors , but he entered soon after , and stood with both hands in his pockets staring at Tom . 
Widow Rudkin , who would have had to cross Madam to get at young Hopeful -- a breach of good manners of which she was wholly incapable -- began a series of pantomime signs , which only puzzled him , and at last , unable to contain herself longer , burst out with , `` Job ! 
replied Job , slowly extricating one hand from a pocket and feeling for the article in question ; which he found on his head sure enough , and left there , to his mother 's horror and Tom 's great delight . 
He might be a year older than Tom , but was very little bigger , and he was the Crichton of our village boys . 
He could wrestle and climb and run better than all the rest , and learned all that the schoolmaster could teach him faster than that worthy at all liked . 
He was a boy to be proud of , with his curly brown hair , keen grey eye , straight active figure , and little ears and hands and feet , `` as fine as a lord 's '' as Charity remarked to Tom one day , talking as usual great nonsense . 
Now that Benjy was laid on the shelf , and his young brothers were still under petticoat government , Tom , in search of companions , began to cultivate the village boys generally more and more . 
So he encouraged Tom in his intimacy with the boys of the village , and forwarded it by all means in his power , and gave them the run of a close for a play-ground , and provided bats and balls and a football for their sports . 
The moment Tom 's lessons were over , he would now get him down to this corner by the stables , and watch till the boys came out of school . 
He prevailed on the groom to cut notches for him in the bark of the elm , so that he could climb into the lower branches , and there he would sit watching the school door , and speculating on the possibility of turning the elm into a dwelling-place for himself and friends after the manner of the Swiss Family Robinson . 
But the school hours were long and Tom 's patience short , so that soon he began to descend into the street , and go and peep in at the school door and the wheelwright 's shop , and look out for something to while away the time . 
Now the wheelwright was a choleric man , and one fine afternoon , returning from a short absence , found Tom occupied with one of his pet adzes , the edge of which was fast vanishing under our hero 's care . 
A speedy flight saved Tom from all but one sound cuff on the ears , but he resented this unjustifiable interruption of his first essays at carpentering , and still more the further proceedings of the wheelwright , who cut a switch and hung it over the door of his workshop , threatening to use it upon Tom if he came within twenty yards of his gate . 
So Tom , to retaliate , commenced a war upon the swallows who dwelt under the wheelwright 's eaves , whom he harassed with sticks and stones , and being fleeter of foot than his enemy escaped all punishment , and kept him in perpetual anger . 
Moreover his presence about the school door began to incense the master , as the boys in that neighbourhood neglected their lessons in consequence ; and more than once he issued into the porch rod in hand , just as Tom beat a hasty retreat . 
And he and the wheelwright laying their heads together , resolved to acquaint the Squire with Tom 's afternoon occupations ; but in order to do it with effect , determined to take him captive and lead him away to judgment fresh from his evil doings . 
This they would have found some difficulty in doing , had Tom continued the war single-handed , or rather single-footed , for he would have taken to the deepest part of Pebbly Brook to escape them ; but like other active powers , he was ruined by his alliances . 
Poor Jacob Doodle-calf could not go to school with the other boys , and one fine afternoon , about three o'clock -LRB- the school broke up at four -RRB- , Tom found him ambling about the street , and pressed him into a visit to the school-porch . 
Tom first reconnoitred the wheelwright 's shop , and seeing no signs of activity , thought all safe in that quarter , and ordered at once an advance of all his troops upon the school-porch . 
Tom waxing bold , kept putting his head into the school and making faces at the master when his back was turned . 
Poor Jacob , not in the least comprehending the situation , and in high glee at finding himself so near the school , which he had never been allowed to enter , suddenly , in a fit of enthusiasm , pushed by Tom , and ambling three steps into the school , stood there looking round him and nodding with a self-approving smile . 
Tom rushed at Jacob , and began dragging him back by his smock-frock , and the master made at them , scattering forms and boys in his career . 
So they were seized , the school dismissed , and Tom and Jacob led away to Squire Brown as lawful prize , the boys following to the gate in groups , and speculating on the result . 
The Squire was very angry at first , but the interview , by Tom 's pleading , ended in a compromise . 
Tom was not to go near the school till three o'clock , and only then if he had done his own lessons well , in which case he was to be the bearer of a note to the master from Squire Brown , and the master agreed in such case to release ten or twelve of the best boys an hour before the time of breaking up , to go off and play in the close . 
The second act of Tom 's life may now be said to have begun . 
The war of independence had been over for some time : none of the women now , not even his mother 's mind , dared offer to help him in dressing or washing . 
Between ourselves , he had often at first to run to Benjy in an unfinished state of toilet ; Charity and the rest of them seemed to take delight in putting impossible buttons and ties in the middle of his back ; but he would have gone without nether integuments altogether , sooner than have had recourse to female valeting . 
He had a room to himself , and his father gave him sixpence a-week pocket-money . 
All this he had achieved by Benjy 's advice and assistance . 
But now he had conquered another step in life , the step which all real boys so long to make ; he had got amongst his equals in age and strength , and could measure himself with other boys ; he lived with those whose pursuits and wishes and ways were the same in kind as his own . 
The little governess who had lately been installed in the house found her work grow wondrously easy , for Tom slaved at his lessons in order to make sure of his note to the schoolmaster . 
So there were very few days in the week in which Tom and the village boys were not playing in their close by three o'clock . 
Prisoner 's - base , rounders , high-cock-a-lorum , cricket , foot-ball , he was soon initiated into the delights of them all ; and though most of the boys were older than himself , he managed to hold his own very well . 
He was naturally active and strong , and quick of eye and hand , and had the advantage of light shoes and well-fitting dress , so that in a short time he could run and jump and climb with any of them . 
Some of them would catch the Shetland pony who was turned out in the field , and get two or three together on his back , and the little rogue , enjoying the fun , would gallop off for fifty yards and then turn round , or stop short and shoot them on to the turf , and then graze quietly on till he felt another load ; others played peg-top or marbles , while a few of the bigger ones stood up for a bout at wrestling . 
Tom at first only looked on at this pastime , but it had peculiar attractions for him , and he could not long keep out of it . 
And Tom watched with all his eyes , and first challenged one of the less scientific , and threw him ; and so one by one wrestled his way up to the leaders . 
Then indeed for months he had a poor time of it ; it was not long indeed before he could manage to keep his legs against Job , for that hero was slow of offence , and gained his victories chiefly by allowing others to throw themselves against his immoveable legs and loins . 
Luckily Harry 's bright unconsciousness , and Tom 's natural good temper , kept them from ever quarreling ; and so Tom worked on and on , and trod more and more nearly on Harry 's heels , and at last mastered all the dodges and falls except one . 
This one was Harry 's own particular invention and pet ; he scarcely ever used it except when hard pressed , but then out it came , and as sure as it did , over went poor Tom . 
He thought about that fall at his meals , in his walks , when he lay awake in bed , in his dreams , but all to no purpose ; until Harry one day in his open way suggested to him how he thought it should be met , and in a week from that time the boys were equal , save only the slight difference of strength in Harry 's favour , which some extra ten months of age gave . 
Tom had often afterwards reason to be thankful for that early drilling , and above all for having mastered Harry Winburn 's fall . 
The few neighbours of the Squire 's own rank every now and then would shrug their shoulders , as they drove or rode by a party of the boys with Tom in the middle , carrying along bulrushes or whispering reeds , or great bundles of cowslip and meadow-sweet , or young starlings or magpies , or other spoil of wood , brook , or meadow : and Lawyer Red-tape might mutter to Squire Straight-back at the Board , that no good would come of the young Browns , if they were let run wild with all the dirty village boys , whom the best farmers ' sons even would not play with . 
But luckily Squire Brown was full as stiff-backed as his neighbours , and so went on his own way ; and Tom and his younger brothers , as they grew up , went on playing with the village boys without the idea of equality or inequality -LRB- except in wrestling , running , and climbing -RRB- ever entering their heads , as it does n't till it 's put there by Jack Nastys or fine ladies ' maids . 
I do n't mean to say it would be the case in all villages , but it certainly was so in this one ; the village boys were full as manly and honest , and certainly purer , than those in a higher rank ; and Tom got more harm from his equals in his first fortnight at a private school , where he went when he was nine years old , than he had from his village friends from the day he left Charity 's apron-strings . 
Great was the grief amongst the village school-boys , when Tom drove off with the Squire one August morning to meet the coach on his way to school . 
Each of them had given him some little present of the best that he had , and his small private box was full of peg-tops , white marbles -LRB- called `` alley taws '' in the Vale -RRB- , screws , birds ' eggs , whip-cord , jews-harps , and other miscellaneous boys ' wealth . 
Poor Jacob Doodle-calf , in floods of tears , had pressed upon him with spluttering earnestness his lame pet hedgehog , -LRB- he had always some poor broken-down beast or bird by him -RRB- ; but this Tom had been obliged to refuse by the Squire 's order . 
He had given them all a great tea under the big elm in their play-ground , for which Madam Brown had supplied the biggest cake ever seen in our village ; and Tom was really as sorry to leave them as they to lose him , but his sorrow was not unmixed with the pride and excitement of making a new step in life . 
And this feeling carried him through his first parting with his mother better than could have been expected . 
The two ushers at Tom 's first school were not gentlemen , and very poorly educated , and were only driving their poor trade of usher to get such living as they could out of it . 
Poor little Tom was made dreadfully unhappy in his first week , by a catastrophe which happened to his first letter home . 
With huge labour he had , on the very evening of his arrival , managed to fill two sides of a sheet of letter-paper with assurances of his love for dear mamma , his happiness at school , and his resolves to do all she would wish . 
This missive , with the help of the boy who sat at the desk next him , also a new arrival , he managed to fold successfully ; but this done , they were sadly put to it for means of sealing . 
At length Tom 's friend , being of an ingenious turn of mind , suggested sealing with ink , and the letter was accordingly stuck down with a blob of ink , and duly handed by Tom on his way to bed to the housekeeper to be posted . 
It was not till four days afterwards that that good dame sent for him , and produced the precious letter , and some wax , saying , `` Oh , Master Brown , I forgot to tell you before , but your letter is ` nt sealed . '' 
Poor Tom took the wax in silence and sealed his letter , with a huge lump rising in his throat during the process , and then ran away to a quiet corner of the play-ground , and burst into an agony of tears . 
The idea of his mother waiting day after day for the letter he had promised her at once , and perhaps thinking him forgetful of her , when he had done all in his power to make good his promise , was as bitter a grief as any which he had to undergo for many a long year . 
His wrath then was proportionately violent when he was aware of two boys , who stopped close by him , and one of whom , a fat gaby of a fellow , pointed at him and called him `` Young-mammy-sick . '' 
Whereupon Tom arose , and giving vent thus to his grief and shame and rage , smote his derider on the nose , and made it bleed , which sent that young worthy howling to the usher , who reported Tom for violent and unprovoked assault and battery . 
Tom however escaped the penalty by pleading `` primum tempus '' ; and having written a second letter to his mother enclosing some forget-me-nots , which he picked on their first half-holiday walk , felt quite happy again , and began to enjoy vastly a good deal of his new life . 
At the entrance of the down there was a steep hillock , like the barrows of Tom 's own downs . 
Others went after butterflies and birds ' - eggs in their seasons ; and Tom found on Hazeldown for the first time the beautiful little blue butterfly , with golden spots on his wings , which he had never seen on his own downs , and dug out his first sand-martin 's nest . 
This latter achievement resulted in a flogging , for the sand-martins built in a high bank close to the village , consequently out of bounds ; but one of the bolder spirits of the school , who never could be happy unless he was doing something to which risk attached , easily persuaded Tom to break bounds and visit the martins ' bank . 
From whence it being only a step to the toffy shop , what could be more simple than to go on there and fill their pockets ; or what more certain than that on their return , a distribution of treasure having been made , the usher should shortly detect the forbidden smell of bulls-eyes , and , a search ensuing , discover the state of the breeches-pockets of Tom and his ally ? 
This ally of Tom 's was indeed a desperate hero in the sight of the boys , and feared as one who dealt in magic or something approaching thereto . 
Which reputation came to him in this wise . 
One night , when it came to his turn , and he had dried up their souls by his story , he suddenly declared that he would make a fiery hand appear on the door ; and to the astonishment and terror of the boys in his room , a hand , or something like it , in pale light , did then and there appear . 
Lucifer-matches and all the present facilities for getting acquainted with fire were then unknown ; the very name of phosphorus had something diabolic in it to the boy-mind ; so Tom 's ally , at the cost of a sound flogging , earned what many older folk covet much , the most decided fear of most of his companions . 
He was a remarkable boy , and by no means a bad one . 
Tom stuck to him till he left , and got into many scrapes by so doing . 
But he was the great opponent of the tale-bearing habits of the school , and the open enemy of the ushers , and so worthy of all support . 
Tom imbibed a fair amount of Latin and Greek at the school , but somehow on the whole it did n't suit him , or he it , and in the holidays he was constantly working the Squire to send him at once to a public school . 
The Squire was not quite so pleased as Master Tom to see that young gentleman 's brown merry face appear at home , some two months before the proper time , for Christmas holidays ; and so after putting on his thinking cap , he retired to his study and wrote several letters , the result of which was , that one morning at the breakfast-table , about a fortnight after Tom 's return , he addressed his wife with -- `` My dear , I have arranged that Tom shall go to Rugby at once , for the last six weeks of this half-year , instead of wasting them , riding and loitering about home . 
Mrs. Brown was prepared for the announcement , and merely suggested a doubt whether Tom were yet old enough to travel by himself . 
However , finding both father and son against her on this point , she gave in like a wise woman , and proceeded to prepare Tom 's kit for his launch into a public-school . 
So spake the Boots of the Peacock Inn , Islington , at half-past two o'clock on the morning of a day in the early part of Novemeber 183 - , giving Tom at the same time a shake by the shoulder , and then putting down a candle and carrying off his shoes to clean . 
Tom and his father had arrived in town from Berkshire the day before , and finding on inquiry that the Birmingham coaches which ran from the city did not pass through Rugby , but deposited their passengers at Dunchurch , a village three miles distant on the main road , where said passengers had to wait for the Oxford and Leicester coach in the evening , or to take a post-chaise , had resolved that Tom should travel down by the Tally-ho , which diverged from the main road and passed through Rugby itself . 
Tom had never been in London , and would have liked to have stopped at the Belle Savage , where they had been put down by the Star , just at dusk , that he might have gone roving about those endless , mysterious , gaslit streets , which , with their glare and hum and moving crowds , excited him so that he could ` nt talk even . 
But as soon as he found that the Peacock arrangement would get him to Rugby by twelve o'clock in the day , whereas otherwise he would ` nt be there till the evening , all other plans melted away ; his one absorbing aim being to become a public school-boy as fast as possible , and six hours sooner or later seeming to him of the most alarming importance . 
Tom and his father had alighted at the Peacock , at about seven in the evening , and having heard with unfeigned joy the paternal order at the bar of steaks and oyster-sauce for supper in half-an-hour , and seen his father seated cozily by the bright fire in the coffee-room , with the paper in his hand , Tom had run out to see about him , had wondered at all the vehicles passing and repassing , and had fraternized with the boots and ostler , from whom he ascertained that the Tally-ho was a tip-top goer , ten miles an hour including stoppages , and so punctual , that all the road set their clocks by her . 
Then being summoned to supper , he had regaled himself in one of the bright little boxes of the Peacock coffee-room , on the beef-steak and unlimited oyster-sauce , and brown stout , -LRB- tasted then for the first time -- a day to be marked for ever by Tom with a white stone -RRB- ; had at first attended to the excellent advice which his father was bestowing on him from over his glass of steaming brandy-and-water , and then begun nodding , from the united effects of the stout , the fire , and the lecture . 
Till the Squire observing Tom 's state , and remembering that it was nearly nine o'clock , and that the Tally-ho left at three , sent the little fellow off to the chambermaid , with a shake of the hand -LRB- Tom having stipulated in the morning before starting , that kissing should now cease between them -RRB- and a few parting words . 
`` And now , Tom my boy , '' said the Squire , `` remember you are going , at your own earnest request , to be chucked into this great school , like a young bear with all your troubles before you -- earlier than we should have sent you perhaps . 
The allusion to his mother made Tom feel rather chokey , and he would have liked to have hugged his father well , if it had ` nt been for the recent stipulation . 
As it was , he only squeezed his father 's hand , and looked bravely up and said , `` I 'll try , father . '' 
`` Yes , '' said Tom , diving into one pocket to make sure . 
`` All right , '' said Tom , diving into the other pocket . 
Tom was carried off by the chambermaid in a brown study , from which he was roused in a clean little attic , by that buxom person calling him a little darling , and kissing him as she left the room ; which indignity he was too much surprised to resent . 
And still thinking of his father 's last words , and the look with which they were spoken , he knelt down and prayed , that come what might , he might never bring shame or sorrow on the dear folk at home . 
All the way up to London he had pondered what he should say to Tom by way of parting advice , something that the boy could keep in his head ready for use . 
If he 'll only turn out a brave , helpful , truth-telling Englishman , and a gentleman , and a Christian , that 's all I want , '' thought the Squire ; and upon this view of the case framed his last words of advice to Tom , which were well enough suited to his purpose . 
For they were Tom 's first thoughts as he tumbled out of bed at the summons of Boots , and proceeded rapidly to wash and dress himself . 
At ten minutes to three he was down in the coffee-room in his stockings , carrying his hat-box , coat , and comforter in his hand ; and there he found his father nursing a bright fire , and a cup of hot coffee and a hard biscuit on the table . 
`` Now then , Tom , give us your things here , and drink that ; there 's nothing like starting warm , old fellow . '' 
Tom addressed himself to the coffee , and prattled away while he worked himself into his shoes and his great-coat , well warmed through ; a Petersham coat with velvet collar , made tight after the abominable fashion of those days . 
And just as he is swallowing his last mouthful , winding his comforter round his throat , and tucking the ends into the breast of his coat , the horn sounds , Boots looks in and says , `` Tally-ho , sir ; '' and they hear the ring and the rattle of the four fast trotters and the town-made drag , as it dashes up to the Peacock . 
Up goes Tom , the guard catching his hat-box and holding on with one hand , while with the other he claps the horn to his mouth . 
Tom stands up on the coach and looks back at his father 's figure as long as he can see it , and then the guard having disposed of his luggage comes to an anchor , and finishes his buttonings and other preparations for facing the three hours before dawn ; no joke for those who minded cold , on a fast coach in November , in the reign of his late Majesty . 
The Tally-ho is past St. Alban 's , and Tom is enjoying the ride though half-frozen . 
The guard , who is alone with him on the back of the coach , is silent , but has muffled Tom 's feet up in straw , and put the end of an oat-sack over his knees . 
The darkness has driven him inwards , and he has gone over his little past life , and thought of all his doings and promises , and of his mother and sister , and his father 's last words ; and has made fifty good resolutions , and means to bear himself like a brave Brown as he is , though a young one . 
Then he has been forward into the mysterious boy-future , speculating as to what sort of a palce Rugby is , and what they do there , and calling up all the stories of public schools which he has heard from big boys in the holidays . 
He is chock full of hope and life , notwithstanding the cold , and kicks his heels against the back-board , and would like to sing , only he does ` nt know how his friend the silent guard might take it . 
`` Now , sir , '' says he to Tom , `` you just jump down , and I 'll give you a drop of something to keep the cold out . '' 
Tom finds a difficulty in jumping , or indeed in finding the top of the wheel with his feet , which may be in the next world for all he feels ; so the guard picks him off the coach-top and sets him on his legs , and they stump off into the bar , and join the coachman and the other outside passengers . 
The purl warms the cockles of Tom 's heart and makes him cough . 
They are out again and up ; Coachee the last , gathering the reins into his hands and talking to Jem the ostler about the mare 's shoulder , and then swinging himself up on to the box , the horses dashing off in a canter before he falls into his seat . 
Toot-toot-tootle-too goes the horn , and away they are again , five-and-thirty miles of their road , -LRB- nearly half-way to Rugby , thinks Tom , -RRB- and the prospect of breakfast at the end of the stage . 
says head waiter , coming round to Tom . 
`` Coffee please , '' says Tom with his mouth full of muffin and kidney ; coffee is a treat to him , tea is not . 
Tom has eaten kidney and pigeon-pie , and imbibed coffee , till his little skin is as tight as a drum ; and then has the further pleasure of paying head waiter out of his own purse , in a dignified manner , and walks out before the inn-door to see the horses put to . 
Tom is encouraged by a remark or two of the guard 's between the puffs of his oily cheroot , and besides is getting tired of not talking . 
He is too full of his destination to talk about anything else , and so asks the guard if he knows Rugby . 
says Tom . 
Guard looks at him with a comical expression . 
`` Yes , '' says Tom , not unwilling for a moment that the guard should think him an old boy . 
The guard looked as if he knew this quite as well as Tom . 
Tom assented . 
Tom said he hoped they would , but he thought within himself that his fate would probably be the Pig and Whistle . 
inquires Tom . 
And the guard shook his head slowly , and got up and blew a clear brisk toot , toot . 
said Tom , who could scarcely contain his pride at this exploit of his future schoolfellows . 
He longed already for the end of the half that he might join them . 
The guard stopped and pulled away at his cheroot , regarding Tom benignantly the while . 
But , ` Lor bless you , sir , '' says the guard , smacking his hand down on his knee and looking full into Tom 's face , `` ten minutes after they was all as bad as ever . '' 
Tom shewed such undisguised and open-mouthed interest in his narrations , that the old guard rubbed up his memory , and launched out into a graphic history of all the performances of the boys on the roads for the last twenty years . 
Off the road he could ` nt go , the exploit must have been connected with horses or vehicles to hang in the old fellow 's head . 
Tom tried him off his own ground once or twice , but found he knew nothing beyond , and so let him have his head , and the rest of the road bowled easily away ; for old Blow-hard -LRB- as the boys called him -RRB- was a dry old file , with much kindness and humour , and a capital spinner of a yarn when he had broken the neck of his day 's work , and got plenty of ale under his belt . 
What struck Tom 's youthful imagination most , was the desperate and lawless character of most of the stories . 
They passed several more parties of boys , all of them objects of the deepest interest , to Tom , and came in sight of the town at ten minutes before twelve . 
Tom fetched a long breath , and thought he had never spent a pleasanter day . 
Before he went to bed he had quite settled that it must be the greatest day he should ever spend , and did ` nt alter his opinion for many a long year , if he has yet . 
Tom 's heart beat quick as he passed the great school field or close , with its noble elms , in which several games at foot-ball were going on , and tried to take in at once the long line of grey buildings , beginning with the chapel , and ending with the school-house , the residence of the head-master , where the great flag was lazily waving from the highest round tower . 
And he began already to be proud of being a Rugby boy , as he passed the school-gates , with the oriel window above , and saw the boys standing there , looking as if the town belonged to them ; and nodding in a familiar manner to the coachman , as if any one of them would be quite equal to getting on the box , and working the team down street as well as he . 
he turned short round to Tom , and , after looking him over for a minute , began -- `` I say , you fellow , is your name Brown ? '' 
`` Yes , '' said Tom , in considerable astonishment ; glad however to have lighted on some one already who seemed to know him . 
Tom was somewhat inclined to resent the patronizing air of his new friend , a boy of just about his own height and age , but gifted with the most transcendent coolness and assurance , which Tom felt to be aggravating and hard to bear , but could n't for the life of him help admiring and envying -- especially when young my lord begins hectoring two or three long loafing fellows , half porter , half stablemen , with a strong touch of the blackguard , and in the end arranges with one of them , nicknamed Cooey , to carry Tom 's luggage up to the school-house for sixpence . 
Come along , Brown . '' 
And away swaggers the young potentate , with his hands in his pockets , and Tom at his side . 
`` Hullo tho ' , '' says East , pulling up , and taking another look at Tom , `` this 'll never do -- have n't you got a hat ? 
The very idea was quite beyond young Master East , and he looked unutterable things . 
Tom thought his cap a very knowing affair , but confessed that he had a hat in his hat-box ; which was accordingly at once extracted from the hind boot , and Tom equipped in his go-to-meeting roof , as his new friend called it . 
But this did n't quite suit his fastidious taste in another minute , being too shiny ; so , as they walk up the town , they dive into Nixon 's the hatter 's , and Tom is arrayed , to his utter astonishment , and without paying for it , in a regulation cat-skin at seven-and-sixpence ; Nixon undertaking to send the best hat up to the matron 's room , school-house , in half-an-hour . 
Tom by this time began to be conscious of his new social position and dignities , and to luxuriate in the realized ambition of being a public-school boy at last , with a vested right of spoiling two seven-and-sixers in half a year . 
And Tom , notwithstanding his bumptiousness , felt friends with him at once , and began sucking in all his ways and prejudices , as fast as he could understand them . 
East was great in the character of cicerone ; he carried Tom through the great gates , where were only two or three boys . 
and so they passed on through the quadrangle and a small court-yard , upon which looked down a lot of little windows , belonging , as his guide informed him , to some of the School-house studies , into the matron 's room , where East introduced Tom to that dignitary ; made him give up the key of his trunk , that the matron might unpack his linen , and told the story of the hat , and of his own presence of mind : upon the relation whereof , the matron laughingly scolded him , for the coolest new boy in the house ; and East , indignant at the accusation of newness , marched Tom off into the quadrangle , and began shewing him the schools , and examining him as to his literary attainments ; the result of which was , a prophecy that they would be in the same form , and could do their lessons together . 
Tom followed his guide through the School-house hall , which opens into the quadrangle . 
It is a great room thirty feet long and eighteen high , or thereabouts , with two great tables running the whole length , and two large fireplaces at the side , with blazing fires in them , at one of which some dozen boys were standing and lounging , some of whom shouted to East to stop ; but he shot through with his convoy , and landed him in the long dark passages , with a large fire at the end of each , upon which the studies opened . 
Into one of these , in the bottom passage , East bolted with our hero , slamming and bolting the door behind them , in case of pursuit from the hall , and Tom was for the first time in a Rugby boy 's citadel . 
He had n't been prepared for separate studies , and was not a little astonished and delighted with the palace in question . 
But it was uncommonly comfortable to look at , Tom thought . 
The walls were wainscoted half-way up , the wainscot being covered with green-baize , the remainder with a bright-patterned paper , on which hung three or four prints , of dog 's heads , Grimaldi winning the Aylesbury steeple-chase , Amy Robsart , the reigning Waverley beauty of the day , and Tom Crib in a posture of defence , which did no great credit to the science of that hero , if truly represented . 
Over the door were a row of hat-pegs , and on each side bookcases with cupboards at the bottom ; shelves and cupboards being filled indiscriminately with school-books , a cup or two , a mouse-trap and brass candlesticks , leather straps , a fustian bag , and some curious looking articles , which puzzled Tom not a little , until his friend explained that they were climbing irons , and shewed their use . 
This was the residence of East and another boy in the same form , and had more interest for Tom than Windsor Castle , or any other residence in the British Isles . 
For was he not about to become the joint owner of a similar home , the first place which he could call his own ? 
said Tom . 
`` But there 's a big fire out in the passage , '' said Tom . 
A quarter-past one now struck , and the bell began tolling for dinner , so they went into the hall and took their places , Tom at the very bottom of the second table next to the prpostor , who sat at the end to keep order there , and East a few places higher . 
And now Tom for the first time saw his future schoolfellows in a body . 
And a great big bearded man , whom Tom took for a master , began calling over the names , while the great joints were being rapidly carved on a third table in the corner by the old verger and the housekeeper . 
Tom 's turn came last , and meanwhile he was all eyes , looking first with awe at the great man who sat close to him , and was helped first , and who read a hard-looking book all the time he was eating ; and when he got up and walked off to the fire , at the small boys round him , some of whom were reading , and the rest talking in whispers to one another , or stealing one another 's bread , or shooting pellets , or digging their forks through the tablecloth . 
As soon as dinner was over , and Tom had been questioned by such of his neighbours as were curious as to his birth , parentage , education , and other like matters , East , who evidently enjoyed his new dignity of parton and mentor , proposed having a look at the close , which Tom , athirst for knowledge , gladly assented to , and they went out through the quadrangle and past the big fives ' court , into the great play-ground . 
I say , it 's horrid cold , let 's have a run across , '' and away went East , Tom close behind him . 
East was evidently putting his best foot foremost , and Tom , who was mighty proud of his running , and not a little anxious to shew his friend that although a new boy he was no milk-sop , laid himself down to work in his very best style . 
Right across the close they went , each doing all he knew , and there was ` nt a yard between them when they pulled up at the island moat . 
`` I say , '' said East , as soon as he got his wind , looking with much increased respect at Tom , `` you ai n't a bad scud , not by no means . 
said Tom . 
He had been struck by this peculiarity in the costume of almost all the School-house boys . 
Tom listened with the profoundest respect to this chapter of accidents , and followed East across the level ground till they came to a sort of gigantic gallows of two poles eighteen feet high , fixed upright in the ground some fourteen feet aprat , with a cross-bar running from one to the other at the height of ten feet or thereabouts . 
Tom 's respect increased as he struggled to make out his friend 's technicalities , and the other set to work to explain the mysteries of `` off your side , '' `` drop-kicks , '' `` punts , '' `` places , '' and the other intricacies of the great science of foot-ball . 
said he ; `` I ca n't see why it might ` nt go right down to the chapel . '' 
Tom wondered within himself as they strolled back again towards the fives ' court , whether the matches were really such break-neck affairs as East represented , and whether , if they were , he should ever get to like them and play-up well . 
He had ` nt long to wonder however , for next minute East cried out , `` Hurra ! 
They joined the boys who had brought it out , all small School-house fellows , friends of East , and Tom had the pleasure of trying his skill , and performed very creditably , after first driving his foot three inches into the ground , and then nearly kicking his leg into the air , in vigorous efforts to accomplish a drop-kick after the manner of East . 
said Tom , catching East by the arm and longing to feel himself one of them . 
You wo n't be so eager to get into calling-over after a month , '' replied his friend ; and they marched into the big school together , and up to the further end , where that illustrious form , the lower fourth , which had the honour of East 's patronage for the time being , stood . 
The sixth form stood close by the door on the left , some thirty in number , mostly great big grown men , as Tom thought , surveying them from a distance with awe . 
To-day however being the School-house match , none of the School-house prpostors stay by the door to watch for truants of their side ; there is carte blanche to the School-house fags to go where they like ; `` They trust to our honour , '' as East proudly informs Tom ; `` they know very well that no School-house boy would cut the match . 
That little band on the left , consisting of from fifteen to twenty boys , Tom amongst them , who are making for the goal under the School-house wall , are the School-house boys who are not to play-up , and have to stay in goal . 
is the cry : the two sides change goals , and the School-house goal-keepers come threading their way across through the masses of the School ; the most openly triumphant of them , amongst whom is Tom , a School-house boy of two hours ' standing , getting their ears boxed in the transit . 
Tom indeed is excited beyond measure , and it is all the sixth-form boy , kindest and safest of goal-keepers , has been able to do to keep him from rushing out whenever the ball has been near their goal . 
There stand the School-house prpostor , safest of goal-keepers , and Tom Brown by his side , who has learned his trade by this time . 
Now is your time , Tom . 
The blood of all the Browns is up , and the two rush in together , and throw themselves on the ball , under the very feet of the advancing column ; the prpostor on his hands and knees arching his back , and Tom all along on his face . 
Over them topple the leaders of the rush , shooting over the back of the prpostor , but falling flat on Tom , and knocking all the wind out of his small carcase . 
`` Our ball , '' says the prpostor , rising with his prize , `` but get up there , there 's a little fellow under you . '' 
They are hauled and roll off him , and Tom is discovered a motionless body . 
Old Brooke picks him up . 
`` Stand back , give him air , '' he says ; and then feeling his limbs , adds , `` No bones broken . 
`` Hah-hah , '' gasps Tom as his wind comes back , `` pretty well thank you -- all right . '' 
`` Oh , it 's Brown , he 's a new boy ; I know him , '' says East , coming up . 
`` Well , he 's a plucky youngster , and will make a player , '' says Brooke . 
As the boys scattered away from the ground , and East leaning on Tom 's arm , and limping along , was beginning to consider what luxury they should go and buy for tea to celebrate that glorious victory , the two Brooke 's came striding by . 
Old Brooke caught sight of East , and stopped ; put his hand kindly on his shoulder and said , `` Bravo , youngster , you played famously ; not much the matter , I hope ? '' 
`` Well , mind and get all right for next Saturday ; '' and the leader passed on , leaving East better for those few words than all the opodeldoc in England would have made him , and Tom ready to give one of his ears for as much notice . 
Tom 's new purse and money burnt in his pocket ; he wondered , as they toddled through the quadrangle and along the street , whether East would be insulted if he suggested further extravagance , as he had not sufficient faith in a pennyworth of potatoes . 
At last he blurted out -- `` I say , East , ca n't we get something else besides potatoes ? 
Tom did ` nt understand much of this talk , but seized on the fact that East had no money , and was denying himself some little pet luxury in consequence . 
said he , `` I 'm uncommon hungry . '' 
`` I say , '' said East , stopping to look at him and rest his leg , `` you 're a trump , Brown . 
`` Very well , '' said Tom , as pleased as possible , `` where do they sell them ? '' 
`` Oh , over here , just opposite ; '' and they crossed the street and walked into the cleanest little front-room of a small house , half parlour , half shop , and bought a pound of most particular sausages ; East talking pleasantly to Mrs. Porter while she put them in paper , and Tom doing the paying part . 
East and Tom got served at last , and started back for the School-house just as the locking-up bell began to ring ; East on the way recounting the life and adventures of Stumps , who was a character . 
He had produced a toasting-fork from his study , and set Tom to toast the sausages , while he mounted guard over their butter and potatoes ; '' 'cause , '' as he explained , `` you 're a new boy , and they 'll play you some trick and get our butter , but you can toast just as well as I. '' So Tom , in the midst of three or four more urchins similarly employed , toasted his face and the sausages at the same time before the huge fire , till the latter cracked ; when East from his watch-tower shouted that they were done , and then the feast proceeded , and the festive cups of tea were filled and emptied , and Tom imparted of the sausages in small bits to many neighbours , and thought he had never tasted such good potatoes or seen such jolly boys . 
They on their parts waived all ceremony , and pegged away at the sausages and potatoes , and remembering Tom 's performance in goal , voted East 's new crony a brick . 
They were soon however all turned out of the school , and East conducted Tom up to his bedroom , that he might get on clean things and wash himself before singing . 
said Tom , taking his head out of his basin , where he had been plunging it in cold water . 
`` Well , you are jolly green , '' answered his friend from a neighbouring basin . 
Their principal employment in the study was to clear out East 's table , removing the drawers and ornaments and tablecloth , for he lived in the bottom passage , and his table was in requisition for the singing . 
However , the new boys all sing like nightingales to-night , and the salt water is not in requisition ; Tom as his part performing the old west-country song of `` the leather Bottel '' with considerable applause . 
Here Tom found himself at the bottom of all , in a state of mind and body not at all fit for prayers , as he thought ; and so tried hard to make himself serious , but could n't , for the life of him , do anything but repeat in his head the choruses of some of the songs , and stare at all the boys opposite , wondering at the brilliancy of their waistcoats , and speculating what sort of fellows they were . 
So the Doctor sees nothing , but fascinates Tom in a horrible manner as he stands there , and reads out the Psalm in that deep , ringing , searching voice of his . 
Prayers are over , and Tom still stares open-mouthed after the Doctor 's retiring figure , when he feels a pull at his sleeve , and turning round sees East . 
`` No , '' said Tom ; `` why ? '' 
inquired Tom . 
`` Oh yes , bless you , a dozen times , '' said East , as he hobbled along by Tom 's side up-stairs . 
Tom 's heart beat rather quick as he and East reached their room , but he had made up his mind . 
`` I sha n't hide , East , '' said he . 
The room was a great big one with a dozen beds in it , but not a boy that Tom could see , except East and himself . 
East pulled off his coat and waiscoat , and then sat on the bottom of his bed , whistling , and pulling off his boots ; Tom followed his example . 
A noise and steps are heard in the passage , the door opens , and in rush four or five great fifth-form boys , headed by Flashman in his glory . 
Tom and East slept in the further corner of the room , and were not seen at first . 
look under the beds : '' and he pulled up the little white curtain of the one nearest him . 
`` Who-o-op , '' he roared , pulling away at the leg of a small boy , who held on tight to the leg of the bed , and sung out lustily for mercy . 
`` Brown . '' 
`` Well , Whitey Brown , you do n't mind being tost ? '' 
`` No , '' said Tom , setting his teeth . 
`` Come along then , boys , '' sung out Walker , and away they all went , carrying along Tom and East , to the intense relief of four or five other small boys , who crept out from under the beds and behind them . 
And then came Tom 's turn . 
They were in good wind now , and sent him slap up to the cieling first time , against which his knees came rather sharply . 
But the moment 's pause before descending was the rub , the feeling of utter helplessness , and of leaving his whole inside behind him sticking to the cieling . 
Tom was very near shouting to be set down , when he found himself back in the blanket , but thought of East , and did ` nt ; and so took his three tosses without a kick or a cry , and was called a young trump for his pains . 
But now there 's a cry that the prpostor of the room is coming ; so the tossing stops , and all scatter to their different rooms , and Tom is left to turn in with the first day 's experience of a public school to meditate upon . 
It was in this state that Master Tom lay at half-past seven on the morning following the day of his arrival , and from his clean little white bed watched the movements of Bogle -LRB- the generic name by which the successive shoeblacks of the School-house were known -RRB- , as he marched round from bed to bed collecting the dirty shoes and boots , and depositing clean ones in their places . 
Then East , after a roll or two , came to an anchor also , and nodding to Tom , began examining his ancle . 
`` What a pull , '' said he , `` that it 's lie-in-bed , for I shall be as lame as a tree , I think . '' 
It was lie in bed , and no one was in a hurry to get up , especially in rooms where the sixthform boy was a good-tempered fellow , as was the case in Tom 's room , and allowed the small boys to talk and laugh and do pretty much what they pleased , so long as they did ` nt disturb him . 
His bed was a bigger one than the rest , standing in the corner by the fireplace , with washing-stand and large basin by the side , where he lay in state with his white curtains tucked in so as to form a retiring place : an awful subject of contemplation to Tom , who slept nearly opposite , and watched the great man rouse himself and take a book from under his pillow and begin , reading , leaning his head on his hand and turning his back to the room . 
`` Let me go for you , '' said Tom to East , `` I should like it . '' 
And so Tom and the Tadpole in nightshirts and trousers started off down-stairs , and through `` Thos 's hole , '' as the little buttery where candles and beer and bread and cheese were served out at night was called ; across the School-house court , down a long passage and into the kitchen ; where , after some parley with the stalwart handsome cook , who declared that she had filled a dozen jugs already , they got their hot water , and returned with all speed and great caution . 
By the time that the calling-over bell rang , Tom and his new comrades were all down dressed in their best clothes , and he had the satisfaction of answering `` here '' to his name for the first time , the prpostor of the week having put it in at the bottom of his list . 
East still doing the cicerone pointed out all the remarkable characters to Tom as they passed : Osbert , who could throw a cricket-ball from the little-side ground over the rook trees to the Doctor 's wall ; Gray , who had got the Balliol scholarship , and , what East evidently thought of much more importance , a half-holiday for the School by his success ; Thorne , who had run ten miles in two minutes over the hour ; Black , who had held his own against the cock of the town in the last row with the louts ; and many more heroes , who then and there walked about and were worshipped , all trace of whom has long since vanished from the scene of their fame ; and the fourth-form boy , who reads their names rudely cut out on the old hall tables , or painted up on the big-side cupboard -LRB- if hall tables and big-side cupboard still exist -RRB- , wonders what manner of boys they were . 
The chapel-bell began to ring at a quarter to eleven , and Tom got in early and took his place in the lowest row , and watched all the other boys come in and take their places , filling row after row ; and tried to construe the Greek text which was inscribed over the door with the slightest possible success , and wondered which of the masters , who walked down the chapel and took their seats in the exalted boxes at the end , would be his lord . 
The next day Tom was duly placed in the third form , and began his lessons in a corner of the big School . 
He found the work very easy , as he had been well grounded and knew his grammar by heart , and as he had no intimate companion to make him idle -LRB- East and his other School-house friends being in the lower-fourth , the form above him -RRB- , soon gained golden opinions from his master , who said he was placed too low , and should be put out at the end of the half-year . 
So all went well with him in school , and he wrote the most flourishing letters home to his mother , full of his own success and the unspeakable delights of a public school . 
Tom as a new boy was of right excused fagging for the first month , but in his enthusiasm for his new life this privilege hardly pleased him ; and East and others of his young friends discovering this , kindly allowed him to indulge his fancy , and take their turns at night fagging and cleaning studies . 
From supper until nine o'clock , three fags taken in order stood in the passages , and answered any prpostor who called Fag , racing to his door , the last comer having to do the work . 
This consisted generally of going to the buttery for beer and bread and cheese -LRB- for the great men did not sup with the rest , but had each his own allowance in his study or the fifth-form room -RRB- , cleaning candlesticks and putting in new candles , toasting cheese , bottling beer , and carrying messages about the house ; and Tom , in the first blush of his hero-worship , felt it a high privilege to receive orders from , and be the bearer of the supper of Old Brooke . 
And besides this night-work , each prpostor had three or four fags specially allotted to him , of whom he was supposed to be the guide , philosopher , and friend , and who in return for these good offices had to clean out his study every morning by turns , directly after first lesson and before he returned from breakfast . 
And the pleasure of seeing the great men 's studies , and looking at their pictures , and peeping into their books , made Tom a ready substitute for , any boy who was too lazy to do his own work . 
Tom approached the table in obedience to the mysterious summons , always ready to help , and found the party engaged in tearing up old newspapers , copybooks , and magazines into small pieces , with which they were filling four large canvas bags . 
`` I should like to try too , '' said Tom . 
After calling-over , sure enough , there were two boys at the door , calling out `` Big-side Hare-and-hounds meet at White Hall ; '' and Tom having girded himself with leather strap , and left all superfluous clothing behind , set off for White Hall , an old gable-ended house some quarter-of-a-mile from the town , with East , whom he had persuaded to join , notwithstanding his prophecy that they would never get in , as it was the hardest run of the year . 
At the meet they found some forty or fifty boys , and Tom felt sure , from having seen many of them run at foot-ball , that he and East were more likely to get in than they . 
Tom , East , and the Tadpole had a good start , and are well up for such young hands , and after rising the slope and crossing the next field , find themselves up with the leading hounds who have over-run the scent and are trying back ; they have come a mile and a half in about eleven minutes , a pace which shews that it is the last day . 
However they struggle after him , sobbing and plunging along , Tom and East pretty close , and Tadpole , whose big head begins to pull him down , some thirty yards behind . 
`` Well , '' said Tom , mopping away , and gulping down his disappointment , `` it ca n't be helped . 
said Tom . 
They answered it and stopped , hoping for some competent rustic to guide them , when over a gate some twenty yards ahead , crawled the wretched Tadpole , in a state of collapse ; he had lost a shoe in the brook , and been groping after it up to his elbows in the stiff wet clay , and a more miserable creature in the shape of boy seldom has been seen . 
East , Hall , and Brown , late for locking-up . 
`` Here , Brown , you 're the show-figure -- you must lead . '' 
`` But my face is all muddy , '' argued Tom . 
`` Well , just give us a brush then , '' said Tom ; and they began trying to rub off the superflous dirt from each other 's jackets , but it was not dry enough , and the rubbing made it worse ; so in despair they pushed through the swing door at the head of the stairs , and found themselves in the Doctor 's hall . 
`` That 's the library door , '' said East in a whisper , pushing Tom forwards . 
The sound of merry voices and laughter came from within , and his first hesitating knock was unanswered . 
But at the second , the Doctor 's voice said `` Come in , '' and Tom turned the handle , and he , with the others behind him , sidled into the room . 
All looked so kindly and homely and comfortable , that the boys took heart in a moment , and Tom advanced from behind the shelter of the great sofa . 
Then came the making up of parties for the journey home , and Tom joined a party who were to hire a coach , and post with four horses to Oxford . 
Then the last Saturday , on which the Doctor came round to each form to give out the prizes , and hear the masters ' last reports of how they and their charges had been conducting themselves ; and Tom , to his huge delight , was praised , and got his remove into the lower fourth , in which all his School-house friends were . 
On the next Tuesday morning , at four o'clock , hot coffee was going on in the housekeeper 's and matron 's rooms ; boys wrapped in great-coats and mufflers were swallowing hasty mouthfuls , rushing about , tumbling over luggage , and asking questions all at once of the matron ; outside the School-gates were drawn up several chaises and the four-horse coach which Tom 's party had chartered , the post-boys in their best jackets and breeches , and a cornopean-player hired for the occasion , blowing away `` A southerly wind and a cloudy sky , '' waking all peaceful inhabitants half-way down the High street . 
One way or another , the party to which Tom belonged all got packed and paid , and sallied out to the gates , the cornopean playing frantically `` Drops of brandy , '' in allusion probably to the slight potations in which the musician and post-boys had been already indulging . 
Here the party breaks up , all going now different ways , and Tom orders out a chaise and pair as grand as a lord , tho ' he has scarcely five shillings left in his pocket , and more than twenty miles to get home . 
`` Red Lion , Farringdon , '' says Tom , giving hostler a shilling . 
Red Lion , Jem , '' to the post-boy , and Tom rattles away towards home . 
But the boy 's intense joy at getting home , and the wonderful health he is in , and the good character he brings , and the brave stories he tells of Rugby , its doings and delights , soon mollify the Squire , and three happier people did ` nt sit down to dinner that day in England , -LRB- it is the boy 's first dinner at six o'clock at home , great promotion already , -RRB- than he Squire and his wife , and Tom Brown , at the end of his first half-year at Rugby . 
The lower-fourth form in which Tom found himself at the beginning of the next half-year was the largest form in the lower school , and numbered upwards of forty boys . 
Then came the mass of the form , boys of eleven and twelve , the most mischievous and reckless age of British youth , of whom East and Tom Brown were fair specimens . 
Tom , as has been said , had come up from the third with a good character , but the temptations of the lower fourth soon proved too strong for him , and he rapidly fell away , and became as unmanageable as the rest . 
Tom and East had successfully occupied the desk some half-dozen times , and were grown so reckless that they were in the habit of playing small games with fives ' - balls inside , when the masters were at the other end of the big school . 
The second monthly examination came round soon after Tom 's fall , and it was with anything but lively anticipations that he and the other lower-fourth boys came into prayers on the morning of the examination-day . 
Tom could n't hear a word which passed , and never lifted his eyes from his book ; but he knew by a sort of magnetic instinct that the Doctor 's under lip was coming out , and his eye beginning to burn , and his gown getting gathered up more and more tightly in his left hand . 
The suspense was agonizing , and Tom knew that he was sure on such oecasions to make an example of the School-house boys . 
`` If he would only begin , '' thought Tom , `` I should n't mind . '' 
At last the whispering ceased , and the name which was called out was not Brown . 
He looked up for a moment , but the Doctor 's face was too awful ; Tom would n't have met his eye for all he was worth , and buried himself in his book again . 
There was a dead silence over the whole School ; never before and never again while Tom was at school did the Doctor strike a boy in lesson . 
But a character for steadiness once gone is not easily recovered , as Tom found , and for years afterwards he went up the School without it , and the masters ' hands were against him , and his against them . 
And he regarded them , as a matter of course , as his natural enemies . 
None of the other sixth-form boys would move into their passage , and , to the disgust and indignation of Tom and East , one morning after breakfast they were seized upon by Flashman , and made to carry down his books and furniture into the unoccupied study which he had taken . 
From this time they began to feel the weight of the tyranny of Flashman and his friends , and , now that trouble had come home to their own doors , began to look out for sympathizers and partners amongst the rest of the fags ; and meetings of the oppressed began to be held , and murmurs to arise , and plots to be laid , as to how they should free themselves and be avenged on their enemies . 
While matters were in this state , East and Tom were one evening sitting in their study . 
They had done their work for first lesson , and Tom was in a brown study , brooding like a young William Tell upon the wrongs of fags in general , and his own in particular . 
Tom relapsed into his brown study , and East went on reading and chuckling . 
`` Do you know , old fellow , I 've been thinking it over a good deal , '' began Tom again . 
Hang it all , but listen here , Tom -- here 's fun . 
Mr. Winkle 's horse -- '' `` And I 've made up my mind , '' broke in Tom , `` that I wo n't fag except for the sixth . '' 
`` Quite right too , my boy , '' cried East , putting his finger in the place and looking up ; `` but a pretty peck of troubles you 'll get into , if you 're going to play that game . 
asked Tom . 
`` And so we get a double set of master , '' cried Tom indignantly ; `` the lawful ones , who are responsible to the Doctor at any rate , and the unlawful -- the tyrants , who are responsible to nobody . '' 
`` I should ` nt mind if it were only for young Brooke now , '' said Tom , `` he 's such a good-hearted gentlemanly fellow , and ought to be in the sixth -- I 'd do anything for him . 
`` Change or no change , I 'll never fag for him again , '' said Tom , thumping the table . 
East sat up , and began to look comical , as he always did under difficulties . 
`` Here , Brown ! 
you cursed young skulks , '' roared out Flashman , coming to his open door , `` I know you 're in -- no shirking . '' 
Tom stole to their door , and drew the bolts as noiselessly as he could ; East blew out the candle . 
`` Barricade the first , '' whispered he . 
`` Now , Tom , mind , no surrender . '' 
`` Trust me for that , '' said Tom between his teeth . 
East gave Tom a nudge to call attention to this scientific remark . 
`` Now then , stand by for a run , '' said East , throwing the door wide open and rushing into the passage , closely followed by Tom . 
They were too quick to be caught , but Flashman was on the look-out , and sent an empty pickle-jar whizzing after them , which narrowly missed Tom 's head , and broke into twenty pieces at the end of the passage . 
`` He would ` nt mind killing one if he was ` nt caught , '' said East , as they turned the corner . 
`` I 've a good mind to go to the Doctor straight , '' said Tom . 
It is necessary to introduce Diggs thus particularly , as he not only did Tom and East good service in their present warfare , as is about to be told , but soon afterwards , when he got into the sixth , chose them for his fags , and excused them from study-fagging , thereby earning unto himself eternal gratitude from them , and all who are interested in their history . 
Flashman laid wait , and caught Tom before second lesson , and receiving a point blank `` No '' when told to fetch his hat , seized him and twisted his arm , and went through the other methods of torture in use : `` He could n't make me cry tho ' , '' as Tom said triumphantly to the rest of the rebels , `` and I kicked his shins well I know . '' 
And soon it crept out that a lot of the fags were in league , and Flashman excited his associates to join him in bringing the young vagabonds to their senses ; and the house was filled with constant chasings , and sieges , and lickings of all sorts ; and in return , the bullies ' beds were pulled to pieces and drenched with water , and their names written up on the walls with every insulting epithet which the fag invention could furnish . 
And as his operations were being cut short in other directions , he now devoted himself chiefly to Tom and East , who lived at his own door , and would force himself into thier study whenever he found a chance , and sit there , sometimes alone , sometimes with a companion , interrupting all their work , and exulting in the evident pain which every now and then he could see he was inflicting on one or the other . 
The storm had cleared the air for the rest of the house , and a better state of things now began than there had been since Old Brooke had left : but an angry dark spot of thunder-cloud still hung over the end of the passage , where Flashman 's study and that of East and Tom lay . 
He felt that they had been the first rebels , and that the rebellion had been to a great extent successful ; but what above all stirred the hatred and bitterness of his heart against them , was that in the frequent collisions which there had been of late , they had openly called him coward and sneak , -- the taunts were too true to be forgiven . 
While he was in the act of thrashing them , they would roar out instances of his funking at foot-ball , or shirking some encounter with a lout of half his own size . 
These things were all well-enough known in the house , but to have his disgrace shouted out by small boys , to feel that they despised him , to be unable to silence them by any amount of torture , and to see the open laugh and sneer of his own associates , -LRB- who were looking on , and took no trouble to hide their scorn from him , though they neither interfered with his bullying or lived a bit the less intimately with him , -RRB- made him beside himself . 
Come what might , he would make those boys ' lives miserable . 
Flashman , be it said , was about seventeen years old , and big and strong of his age . 
He played well at all games where pluck was n't much wanted , and managed generally to keep up appearances where it was ; and having a bluff off-hand manner , which passed for heartiness , and considerable powers of being pleasant when he liked , went down with the school in general for a good fellow enough . 
By keeping out of bounds , or at all events out of the house and quadrangle , all day , and carefully barring themselves in at night , East and Tom managed to hold on without feeling very miserable ; but it was as much as they could do . 
When therefore , about this time , an auction was one night announced to take place in the Hall , at which , amongst the superfluities of other boys , all Diggs ' Penates for the time being were going to the hammer , East and Tom laid their heads together , and resolved to devote their ready cash -LRB- some four shillings sterling -RRB- to redeem such articles as that sum would cover . 
Accordingly they duly attended to bid , and Tom became the owner of two lots of Diggs ' things ; -- lot 1 , price one-and-threepence , consisting -LRB- as the auctioneer remarked -RRB- of a `` valuable assortment of old metals , '' in the shape of a mouse-trap , a cheese-toaster without a handle , and a saucepan : lot 2 , of a villanous dirty tablecloth and green-baize curtain ; while East , for one-and-sixpence , purchased a leather paper-case , with a lock but no key , once handsome , but now much the worse for wear . 
Soon after comes Tom 's turn ; his ticket like the others is seized and opened . 
`` Give me the ticket , '' says Flashman with an oath , leaning across the table with open hand , and his face black with rage . 
`` Here , Brown , catch hold , '' and he hands the ticket to Tom , who pockets it ; whereupon Flashman makes for the door at once , that Tom and the ticket may not escape , and there keeps watch until the drawing is over and all the boys are gone , except the sporting set of five or six , who stay to compare books , make bets , and so on , Tom , who does n't choose to move while Flashman is at the door , and East , who stays by his friend , anticipating trouble . 
The sporting set now gathered round Tom . 
Public opinion would ` nt allow them actually to rob him of his ticket , but any humbug or intimidation by which he could be driven to sell the whole or part at an under-value was lawful . 
`` Now , young Brown , come , what 'll you sell me Harkaway for ? 
I hear he is ` nt going to start . 
I 'll give you five shillings for him , '' begins the boy who had opened the ticket . 
Tom , remembering his good deed , and moreover in his forlorn state wishing to make a friend , is about to accept the offer , when another cries out , `` I 'll give you seven shillings . '' 
Tom hesitated , and looked from one to the other . 
said Flashman , pushing in , `` leave me to deal with him ; we 'll draw lots for it afterwards . 
`` I wo n't sell a bit of him , '' answered Tom shortly . 
`` He 's the coxiest young blackguard in the house -- I always told you so . 
We 're to have all the trouble and risk of getting up the lotteries for the benefit of such fellows as he . '' 
Flashman forgets to explain what risk they ran , but he speaks to willing ears . 
`` I wo n't , '' said Tom , flushing up to his hair , and lumping them all in his mind with his sworn enemy . 
`` Very well then , let 's roast him , '' cried Flashman , and catches hold of Tom by the collar : one or two boys hesitate , but the rest join in . 
East seizes Tom 's arm and tries to pull him away , but is knocked back by one of the boys , and Tom is dragged along struggling . 
His shoulders are pushed against the mantelpiece , and he is held by main force before the fire , Flashman drawing his trousers tight by way of extra torture . 
Poor East , in more pain even than Tom , suddenly thinks of Diggs , and darts off to find him . 
Tom only answers by groans and struggles . 
`` I say , Flashey , he has had enough , '' says the same boy , dropping the arm he holds . 
But poor Tom is done already , turns deadly pale , and his head falls forward on his breast , just as Diggs in frantic excitement rushes into the Hall with East at his heels . 
is all he can say , as he catches Tom from them and supports him to the Hall table . 
Flashman and one or two others slink away ; the rest ashamed and sorry bend over Tom or run for water , while East darts off for the housekeeper . 
Water comes , and they throw it on his hands and face , and he begins to come to . 
goes on Tom , opening his eyes . 
I remember now , '' and he shu his eyes again and groaned . 
`` I say , '' is whispered , `` we ca n't do any good , and the housekeeper will be here in a minute , '' and all but one steal away ; he stays with Diggs , silent and sorrowful , and fans Tom 's face . 
The housekeeper comes in with strong salts , and Tom soon recovers enough to sit up . 
There is a smell of burning ; she examines his clothes , and looks up inquiringly . 
`` Oh , I can walk now , '' says Tom , and supported by East and the housekeeper , goes to the sick-room . 
The boy who held his ground is soon amongst the rest , who are all in fear of their lives . 
And pausing a moment he adds , `` I 'm sick of this work : what brutes we 've been . '' 
Meantime Tom is stretched on the sofa in the housekeeper 's room , with East by his side , while she gets wine-and-water and other restoratives . 
`` Only the back of my legs , '' answers Tom . 
They are indeed badly scorched , and part of his trousers burnt through . 
But soon he is in bed with cold bandages . 
At first he feels broken , and thinks of writing home and getting taken away ; and the verse of a hymn he had learned years ago sings through his head , and he goes to sleep , murmuring -- But after a sound night 's rest , the old boy-spirit comes back again . 
East comes in reporting that the whole house is with him , and he forgets everything except their old resolve , never to be beaten by that bully Flashman . 
When Tom came back into school after a couple of days in the sick-room , he found matters much changed for the better , as East had led him to expect . 
Flashman 's brutality had disgusted most even of his intimate friends , and his cowardice had once more been made plain to the House ; for Diggs had encountered him on the morning after the lottery , and after high words on both sides had struck him , and the blow was not returned . 
Two or three of the boys who had helped to roast Tom came up and begged his pardon , and thanked him for not telling anything . 
Morgan sent for him , and was inclined to take the matter up warmly , but Tom begged him not to do it ; to which he agreed , on Tom 's promising to come to him at once in future -- a promise which I regret to say he did n't keep . 
Tom kept Harkaway all to himself , and won the second prize in the lottery , some thirty shillings , which he and East contrived to spend in about three days , in the purchase of pictures for their study , two new bats and a cricket-ball , all the best that could be got , and a supper of sausages , kidneys , and beef-steak pies to all the rebels . 
It was n't long , however , before the last act of that drama came , and with it , the end of bullying for Tom and East at Rugby . 
Well , one evening , in forbidden hours , Tom and East were in the Hall . 
He was busy with a copy of verses , and East and Tom were chatting together in whispers by the light of the fire , and splicing a favourite old fives ' bat which had sprung . 
Presently a step came down the bottom passage ; they listened a moment , assured themselves that it was n't a prpostor , and then went on with their work , and the door swung open , and in walked Flashman . 
He did n't see Diggs , and thought it a good chance to keep his hand in ; and as the boys did n't move for him , struck one of them , to make them get out of his way . 
East looked at Tom . 
said he . 
`` Yes , '' said Tom , desperately . 
They were about up to his shoulder , but tough boys of their age and in perfect training , while he , though strong and big , was in poor condition from his monstrous habits of stuffing and want of exercise . 
Coward as he was , however , Flashman could n't swallow such an insult as this ; besides , he was confident of having easy work , and so faced the boys , saying , `` You impudent young blackguards ! '' 
-- Before he could finish his abuse they rushed in on him , and began pummeling at all of him which they could reach . 
He hit out wildly and savagely , but the full force of his blows did n't tell , they were too near him . 
It was long odds tho ' in point of strength , and in another minute Tom went spinning backwards over a form , and Flashman turned to demolish East with a savage grin . 
Are you ready , Brown ? 
Closing they saw was their best chance , and Flashman was wilder and more flurried than ever : he caught East by the throat and tried to force him back on the iron-bound table ; Tom grasped his waist , and remembering the old throw he had learned in the Vale from Harry Winburn , crooked his leg inside Flashman 's , and threw his whole weight forward . 
Tom stooped down , and then cried out , scared out of his wits , `` He 's bleeding awfully ; come here , East , Diggs -- he 's dying ! '' 
East was as frightened as Tom . 
Diggs lifted Flashman 's head , and he groaned . 
`` Oh , let me run for the housekeeper , '' cried Tom . 
`` He ca n't be very bad , '' said Tom with a deep sigh , much relieved to see his enemy march so well . 
said Tom , putting up his hand , `` I did n't know it . '' 
Only throw dirt enough , and some of it is sure to stick ; and so it was with the fifth form and the bigger boys in general , with whom he associated more or less , and they not at all , Flashman managed to get Tom and East into disfavour , which did not wear off for some time after the author of it had disappeared from the School world . 
So East and Tom , the Tadpole , and one or two more , became a sort of young Ishmaelites , their hands against every one , and every one 's hand against them . 
`` Hall and Brown . '' 
`` Well , he never half cleaned my study out , only just stuck the candlesticks in the cupboard , and swept the crumbs on to the floor . 
So at last I was mortal angry and had him up , made him go through the whole performance under my eyes : the dust the young scamp made nearly choked me , and shewed that he had n't swept the carpet before . 
`` Hall and Brown were night fags last week : I called fag , and gave them my candlesticks to clean ; away they went , and did n't appear again . 
`` It 's all his look , '' Tom used to say to East , `` that frightens fellows : do n't you remember , he never said anything to us my first half-year , for being an hour late for locking-up ? '' 
The next time that Tom came before him however , the interview was of a very different kind . 
The School-house at this time affected Wratislaw 's hole , and Tom and East , who had learnt to swim like fishes , were to be found there as regular as the clock through the summer , always twice , and often three times a-day . 
The School-house boys of Tom 's standing , one and all , as a protest against this tyranny and cutting short of their lawful amusements , took to fishing in all ways , and especially by means of night-lines . 
The little tackle-maker at the bottom of the town would soon have made his fortune had the rage lasted , and several of the barbers began to lay in fishing-tackle . 
While things were in this state , one day Tom and three or four others were bathing at Wratislaw 's , and had , as a matter of course , been taking up and re-setting night-lines . 
`` I 'll give you a bit of advice , keeper , '' shouted Tom , who was sitting in his shirt paddling with his feet in the river ; `` you 'd better go down there to Swift 's where the big boys are , they 're beggars at setting lines , and 'll put you up to a wrinkle or two for catching the five-pounders . '' 
Tom was nearest to the keeper , and that officer , who was getting angry at the chaff , fixed his eyes on our hero , as if to take a note of him for future use . 
Tom returned his gaze with a steady stare , and then broke into a laugh , and struck into the middle of a favourite School-house song -- As I and my companions Were setting of a snare , The gamekeeper was watching us , For him we did not care : For we can wrestle and fight , my boys , And jump out any where . 
So one fine Thursday afternoon , Tom having borrowed East 's new rod , started by himself to the river . 
He fished for some time with small success , not a fish would rise at him ; but as he prowled along the bank he was presently aware of mighty ones feeding in a pool on the opposite side , under the shade of a huge willow-tree . 
The stream was deep here , but some fifty yards below was a shallow , for which he made off hot-foot ; and forgetting landlords , keepers , solemn prohibitions of the Doctor , and everything else , pulled up his trousers , plunged across , and in three minutes was creeping along on all fours towards the clump of willows . 
As he was baiting for a fourth pounder , and just going to throw in again , he became aware of a man coming up the bank not one hundred yards off . 
Another look told him that it was the under-keeper . 
Could he reach the shallow before him ? 
No , not carrying his rod . 
Nothing for it but the tree , so Tom laid his bones to it , shinning up as fast as he could , and dragging up his rod after him . 
Tom 's heart beat fast as he came under the tree ; two steps more and he would have passed , when , as ill-luck would have it , the gleam on the scales of the dead fish caught his eye , and he made a dead point at the foot of the tree . 
He picked up the fish one by one ; his eye and touch told him that they had been alive and feeding within the hour . 
Tom crouched lower along the branch , and heard the keeper beating the clump . 
`` If I could only get the rod hidden , '' thought he , and began gently shifting it to get it alongside him ; `` willow-trees do n't throw out straight hickory shoots twelve feet long , with no leaves , worse luck . '' 
the keeper catches the rustle , and then a sight of the rod , and then of Tom 's hand and arm . 
says he , running under the tree . 
`` Tree 'd at last , '' thinks Tom , making no answer , and keeping as close as possible , but working away at the rod which he takes to pieces : `` I 'm in for it , unless I can starve him out . '' 
And then he begins to meditate getting along the branch for a plunge , and scramble to the other side ; but the small branches are so thick , and the opposite bank so difficult , that the keeper will have lots of time to get round by the ford before he can get out , so he gives that up . 
`` Thank ` ee , Velveteens , I 'm very comfortable , '' said Tom , shortening the rod in his hand , and preparing for battle . 
`` My luck as usual , '' thinks Tom ; `` what a fool I was to give him a black . 
The keeper quietly proceeded to take out his pipe , fill , and light it , keeping an eye on Tom , who now sat disconsolately across the branch , looking at keeper -- a pitiful sight for men and fishes . 
`` I 'm coming down , keeper , '' said Tom at last with a sigh , fairly tired out . 
`` Walk ` ee up to School , and give ` ee over to the Doctor ; them 's my orders , '' says Velveteens , knocking the ashes out of his fourth pipe , and standing up and shaking himself . 
`` Very good , '' said Tom ; `` but hands off you know . 
Keeper looked at him a minute -- `` Werry good , '' said he at last ; and so Tom descended , and wended his way drearily by the side of the keeper up to the School-house , where they arrived just at locking-up . 
As they passed the School-gates , the Tadpole and several others , who were standing there , caught the state of things , and rushed out , crying `` rescue ; '' but Tom shook his head , so they only followed to the Doctor 's gate , and went back sorely puzzled . 
How changed and stern the Doctor seemed from the last time that Tom was up there , as the keeper told the story , not omitting to state how Tom had called him blackguard names . 
`` You know the rule about the banks , Brown ? '' 
`` I thought so , '' muttered Tom . 
went on the keeper ; `` Master 's told we as we might have all the rods -- '' `` Oh , please sir , '' broke in Tom , `` the rod is n't mine . '' 
The Doctor looked puzzled , but the keeper , who was a good-hearted fellow , and melted at Tom 's evident distress , gave up his claim . 
Tom was flogged next morning , and a few days afterwards met Velveteens , and presented him with half-a-crown for giving up the rod claim , and they became sworn friends ; and I regret to say that Tom had many more fish from under the willow that may-fly season , and was never caught again by Velveteens . 
It was n't three weeks before Tom , and now East by his side , were again in the awful presence . 
`` I say , Tom , '' said East , when they were dismissed , `` could n't we get those balls somehow ? '' 
The place pleased them so much that they spent all their spare time there , scratching and cutting their names on the top of every tower ; and at last , having exhausted all other places , finished up with inscribing H. East , T. Brown on the minute-hand of the great clock . 
Wherefore East and Tom , for no earthly pleasure except that of doing what they are told not to do , start away after second lesson , and making a short circuit through the fields , strike a back lane which leads into the town , go down it , and run plump upon one of the masters as they emerge into the High street . 
The master in question , though a very clever , is not a righteous man : he has already caught several of his own pupils , and gives them lines to learn , while he sends East and Tom , who are not his pupils , up to the Doctor ; who , on learning that they had been at prayers in the morning , flogs them soundly . 
After some other talk between them , the Doctor said , `` I want to speak to you about two boys in your form , East and Brown ; I have just been speaking to them . 
Brown is the most reckless of the two , I should say ; East would n't get into so many scrapes without him . '' 
On the evening of the first day of the next half-year , Tom , East , and another School-house boy , who had just been dropped at the Spread Eagle by the old Regulator , rushed into the matron 's room in high spirits , such as all real boys are in when they first get back , however fond they may be of home . 
You know you promised to get it for us if you could , '' shouted Tom . 
`` Hullo , look here , Tommy , '' shouted he , `` here 's fun ! '' 
and he brandished above his head some pretty little night-caps , beautifully made and marked , the work of loving fingers in some distant country home . 
The little matron was wiser , and snatched the caps from East before he could look at the name on them . 
As the boys turned to leave the room , the matron touched Tom 's arm , and said , `` Master Brown , please stop a minute , I want to speak to you . '' 
Tom was rather put about by this speech . 
He had got the double study which he coveted , but here were conditions attached which greatly moderated his joy . 
Tom was too honest to take in the youngster and then let him shift for himself ; and if he took him as his chum insted of East , where were all his pet plans of having a bottled-beer cellar under his window , and making night-lines and slings , and plotting expeditions to Brownsover Mills and Caldecott 's Spinney ? 
And his mama , such a kind sweet lady , almost broke her heart at leaving him this morning ; and she said one of his sisters was like to die of decline , and so -- '' `` Well , well , '' burst in Tom , with something like a sigh at the effort , `` I suppose I must give up East . 
`` His name 's George Arthur , '' said the matron walking up to him with Tom , who grasped his little delicate hand as the proper preliminary to making a chum of him , and felt as if he could have blown him away . 
Here was an announcement for Master Tom ! 
He was to go up to tea the first night , just as if he were a sixth or fifth form boy , and of importance in the school world , instead of the most reckless young scapegrace amongst the fags . 
Nevertheless , he could ` nt give up without a sigh the idea of the jolly supper in the housekeeper 's room with East and the rest , and a rush round to all the studies of his friends afterwards , to pour out the deeds and wonders of the holidays , to plot fifty plans for the coming half-year , and to gather news of who had left , and what new boys had come , who had got who 's study , and where the new prpostors slept . 
However , Tom consoled himself with thinking that he could n't have done all this with the new boy at his heels , and so marched off along the passages to the Doctor 's private house with his young charge in tow , in monstrous good humour with himself and all the world . 
The master and young Brooke , now a great strapping fellow six feet high , eighteen years old , and powerful as a coalheaver , nodded kindly to Tom to his intense glory , and then went on talking ; the other did not notice them . 
The young ones got on fast and well , Tom holding forth about a prodigious pony he had been riding out hunting , and hearing stories of the winter glories of the lakes , when tea came in , and immediately after the Doctor himself . 
How frank , and kind , and manly , was his greeting to the party by the fire ; it did Tom 's heart good to see him and young Brooke shake hands , and look one another in the face ; and he did ` nt fail to remark , that Brooke was nearly as tall , and quite as broad as the Doctor . 
And his cup was full , when in another moment his master turned to him with another warm shake of the hand , and , seemingly oblivious of all the late scrapes which he had been getting into , said , `` Ah , Brown , you here ! 
Tom wondered if the Doctor knew that his visits to Bilton Grange were for the purpose of taking rooks ' nests -LRB- a proceeding strongly discountenanced by the owner thereof -RRB- , and those to Caldecott 's Spinney , were prompted chiefly by the conveniences for setting night-lines . 
There was a sudden pause when the door opened , and then a great shout of greeting , as Tom was recognised marching down the passage . 
`` Hullo , Brown , where do you come from ? '' 
`` Oh , I 've been to tea with the Doctor , '' says Tom with great dignity . 
Tom saw Arthur shrink back and look scared as all the group turned to him , but thought it best to let him answer , just standing by his side to support in case of need . '' 
Tom struck in -- `` You be hanged , Tadpole . 
`` Do you know him at home , Brown ? '' 
`` No , but he 's my chum in Gray 's old study , and it 's near prayer time , and I have ` nt had a look at it yet . 
Away went the two , Tom longing to get his charge safe under cover , where he might advise him on his deportment . 
`` What a queer chum for Tom Brown , '' was the comment at the fire ; and it must be confessed so thought Tom himself , as he lighted his candle , and surveyed the new green-baize curtains , and the carpet and sofa , with much satisfaction . 
And Tom was soon deep in Arthur 's goods and chattels , all new and good enough for a fifth-form boy , and hardly thought of his friends outside , till the prayer-bell rung . 
I have already described the School-house prayers ; they were the same on the first night as on the other nights , save for the gaps caused by the absence of those boys who came late , and the line of new boys who stood all together at the further table -- of all sorts and sizes , like young bears with all their troubles to come , as Tom 's father had said to him when he was in the same position . 
He thought of it as he looked at the line , and poor little slight Arthur standing with them , and as he was leading him upstairs to Number 4 , directly after prayers , and shewing him his bed . 
The little fellows went quietly to their own beds , and began undressing and talking to one another in whispers ; while the elder , amongst whom was Tom , sat chatting about on one another 's beds , with their jackets and waistcoats off . 
He could hardly bear to take his jacket off ; however , presently with an effort off it came , and then he paused and looked at Tom , who was sitting at the bottom of his bed talking and laughing . 
`` Please , Brown , '' he whispered , `` may I wash my face and hands ? '' 
`` Of course , if you like , '' said Tom staring ; `` that 's your washhand-stand under the window , second from your bed . 
And on he went with his talk , while Arthur stole timidly from between the beds out to his washhand-stand , and began his ablutions , thereby drawing for a moment on himself the attention of the room . 
It was a trying moment for the poor little lonely boy ; however this time he did ` nt ask Tom what he might or might not do , but dropped on his knees by his bedside , as he had done every day from his childhood , to open his heart to Him , who heareth the cry and beareth the sorrows of the tender child , and the strong man in agony . 
Tom was sitting at the bottom of his bed unlacing his boots , so that his back was towards Arthur , and he did ` nt see what had happened , and looked up in wonder at the sudden silence . 
Then Tom saw the whole , and the next moment the boot he had just pulled off flew straight at the head of the bully , who had just time to throw up his arm and catch it on his elbow . 
`` Confound you , Brown , what 's that for ? '' 
roared he , stamping with pain . 
`` Never mind what I mean , '' said Tom , stepping on to the floor , every drop of blood in his body tingling ; `` if any fellow wants the other boot , he knows how to get it . '' 
Tom and the rest rushed into bed and finished their unrobing there , and the old verger , as punctual as the clock , had put out the candle in another minute , and toddled on to the next room , shutting their door with his usual `` Good night , genl 'm ` n. '' There were many boys in the room by whom that little scene was taken to heart before they slept . 
But sleep seemed to have deserted the pillow of poor Tom . 
For some time his excitement , and the flood of memories which chased one another through his brain , kept him from thinking or resolving . 
His head throbbed , his heart leapt , and he could hardly keep himself from springing out of bed and rushing about the room . 
Then the thought of his own mother came across him , and the promise he had made at her knee , years ago , never to forget to kneel by his bedside , and give himself up to his Father , before he laid his head on the pillow , from which it might never rise ; and he lay down gently and cried as if his heart would break . 
But poor Tom had come to school in other times . 
The first few nights after he came he did not kneel down because of the noise , but sat up in bed till the candle was out , and then stole out and said his prayers , in fear lest some one should find him out . 
And so it had come to pass with Tom , as with all who will not confess their Lord before men ; and for the last year he had probably not said his prayers in earnest a dozen times . 
Poor Tom ! 
the first and bitterest feeling which was like to break his heart , was the sense of his own cowardice . 
The vice of all others which he loathed was brought in and burned in on his own soul . 
He had lied to his mother , to his conscience , to his God . 
How could he bear it ? 
I fear that this was in some measure owing to the fact , that Tom could probably have thrashed any boy in the room except the prpostor ; at any rate , everybody knew that he would try upon very slight provocation , and did n't choose to run the risk of a hard fight because Tom Brown had taken a fancy to say his prayers . 
Before either Tom Brown or Arthur left the School-house , there was no room in which it had not become the regular custom . 
I do not mean to recount all the little troubles and annoyances which thronged upon Tom at the beginning of this half-year , in his new character of bear-leader to a gentle little boy straight from home . 
Arthur took a long time thawing too , which made it all the harder work ; was sadly timid ; scarcely ever spoke unless Tom spoke to him first ; and , worst of all , would agree with him in everything , the hardest thing in the world for Brown to bear . 
He got quite angry sometimes , as they sat together of a night in their study , at this provoking habit of agreement , and was on the point of breaking out a dozen times with a lecture upon the propriety of a fellow having a will of his own and speaking out ; but managed to restrain himself by the thought that it might only frighten Arthur , and the remembrance of the lesson he had learnt from him on his first night at Number 4 . 
But Tom had taken it up , and meant to stick to it , and go through with it , so as to satisfy himself ; in which resolution he was much assisted by the chaffing of East and his other old friends , who began to call him `` dry-nurse , '' and otherwise to break their small wit on him . 
But when they took other ground , as they did every now and then , Tom was sorely puzzled . 
Go and get a nice large band-box made , and put him in with plenty of cotton-wool , and a pap-bottle , labelled `` With care -- this side up , '' and send him back to mama . '' 
`` I think I shall make a hand of him though , '' said Tom smiling , `` say what you will . 
Tom took one hand out of his breeches-pocket and stuck it in his back hair for a scratch , giving his hat a tilt over his nose , his one method of invoking wisdom . 
`` Tom , '' said he , `` blest if you ai n't the best old fellow ever was -- I do like to see you go into a thing . 
`` Brown and East , you go and fag for Jones on the great fives ' - court . '' 
His captors slammed the great door of the hall , and East put his back against it , while Tom gave the prisoner a shake-up , took away his list , and stood him up on the floor , while he proceeded leisurely to examine that document . 
`` Pretty little dear , '' said East , patting the top of his hat ; `` hark how he swears , Tom . 
roared the boy , foaming with rage and kicking at East , who quietly tripped him up , and deposited him on the floor in a place of safety . 
`` Gently , young fellow , '' said he ; '' ` tai n't improving for little whippersnappers like you to be indulging in blasphemy ; so you stop that , or you 'll get something you wo n't like . '' 
`` Two can play at that game , mind you , '' said Tom , who had finished his examination of the list . 
Tom walked up to him and jerked him on to his legs ; he was by this time whining like a whipped puppy . 
And Tom tore up the list and threw the pieces into the fire . 
You have n't got the sort of hide to take a sound licking kindly ; '' and he opened the door and sent the young gentleman flying into the quadrangle , with a parting kick . 
`` Nice boy , Tommy , '' said East , shoving his hands in his pockets and strolling to the fire . 
`` Worst sort we breed , '' responded Tom , following his example . 
said Tom . 
Do n't care if he does . 
`` Nor I , '' said Tom . 
The young gentleman had brains enough not to tell Jones , reasoning that East and Brown , who were noted as some of the toughest fags in the school , would n't care three straws for any licking Jones might give them , and would be likely to keep their words as to passing it on with interest . 
After the above conversation , East came a good deal to their study , and took notice of Arthur ; and soon allowed to Tom that he was a thorough little gentleman , and would get over his shyness all in good time ; which muchcomforted our hero . 
He felt every day , too , the value of having an object in his life , something that drew him out of himself ; and , it being the dull time of the year , and no games going about which he much cared , was happier than he had ever yet been at school , which was saying a great deal . 
The time which Tom allowed himself away from his charge , was from locking-up till supper-time . 
During this hour or hour-and-a-half he used to take his fling , going round to the studies of all his acquaintance , sparring or gossiping in the hall , now jumping the old iron-bound tables , or carving a bit of his name on them , then joining in some chorus of merry voices ; in fact , blowing off his steam , as we should now call it . 
This process was so congenial to his temper , and Arthur shewed himself so pleased at the arrangement , that it was several weeks before Tom was ever in their study before supper . 
One evening , however , he rushed in to look for an old chisel , or some corks , or other article essential to his pursuit for the time being , and while rummaging about in the cupboards , looked up for a moment , and was caught at once by the figure of poor little Arthur . 
Tom shut the door at once , and sat down on the sofa by Arthur , putting his arm round his neck . 
`` Oh no , Brown , '' said the little boy , looking up with the great tears in his eyes , `` you are so kind to me , I 'm very happy . '' 
`` Why do n't you call me Tom ? 
Hang it , you must come about with me , and not mope yourself , '' and Tom cast down his eyes on the book and saw it was the Bible . 
He was silent for a minute , and thought to himself , `` Lesson Number 2 , Tom Brown , '' and then said gently -- `` I 'm very glad to see this , Arthur , and ashamed that I do n't read the Bible more myself . 
Arthur had never spoken of his home before , and Tom had ` nt encouraged him to do so , as his blundering school-boy reasoning made him think that Arthur would be softened and less manly for thinking of home . 
From this time Arthur constantly spoke of his home , and above all , of his father , who had been dead about a year , and whose memory Tom soon got to love and reverence almost as much as his own son did . 
After supper that night , and almost nightly for years afterwards , Tom and Arthur , and by degrees East occasionally , and sometimes one , sometimes another , of their friends , read a chapter of the Bible together , and talked it over afterwards . 
Tom was at first utterly astonished , and almost shocked , at the sort of way in which Arthur read the book , and talked about the men and women whose lives were there told . 
The book was to him , Tom saw , the most vivid and delightful history of real people , who might do right or wrong , just like any one who was walking about in Rugby -- the Doctor , or the master , or the sixth-form boys . 
Arthur , Tom , and East were together one night , and read the story of Naaman coming to Elisha to be cured of his leprosy . 
When the chapter was finished , Tom shut his Bible with a slap . 
`` I ca n't stand that fellow Naaman , '' said he , `` after what he 'd seen and felt , going back and bowing himself down in the house of Rimmon , because his effeminate scoundrel of a master did it . 
`` Yes , there you go off as usual , with a shell on your head , '' struck in East , who always took the opposite side to Tom ; half from love of argument , half from conviction . 
`` I do n't care , '' rejoined Tom ; `` why did Naaman talk about bowing down then if he did ` nt mean to do it ? 
`` Well but , Tom , '' said Arthur , `` look what Elisha says to him , Go in peace . ' 
`` I do n't , '' said Tom positively . 
How often have I told you , Tom , that you must drive a nail where it 'll go . '' 
`` And how often have I told you , '' rejoined Tom , `` that it 'll always go where you want , if you only stick to it and hit hard enough . 
`` Yes , he 's a whole-hog man , is Tom . 
`` That 's just the point , '' said Tom ; `` I do n't object to a compromise , where you do n't give up your principle . '' 
`` I know him of old , Arthur , and you 'll find him out some day . 
Give me the Brown compromise when I 'm on his side . '' 
`` Now , Harry , '' said Tom , `` no more chaff -- I 'm serious . 
Look here -- this is what makes my blood tingle ; '' and he turned over the pages of his Bible and read , `` Shadrach , Meshach , and Abednego answered and said to the king , ` O Nebuchandnezzar , we are not careful to answer thee in this matter . 
They were silent a minute , and then Arthur said , `` Yes , that 's a glorious story , but it do n't prove your point , Tom , I think . 
`` There 's always a highest way , and it 's always the right one , '' said Tom . 
No Brown compromise to-night , '' said East , looking at his watch . 
About six weeks after the beginning of the half , as Tom and Arthur were sitting one night before supper begining their verses , Arthur suddenly stopped , and looked up , and said , `` Tom , do you know anything of Martin ? '' 
`` Yes , '' said Tom , taking his hand out of his back hair , and delighted to throw his Gradus ad Parnassum on to the sofa ; `` I know him pretty well . 
He 's a very good fellow , but as mad as a hatter . 
`` Ah , poor old madman , '' he 's always losing his books , '' said Tom , `` and getting called up and floored because he has n't got them . '' 
`` Well , he 's great fun , I can tell you , '' said Tom , throwing himself back on the sofa and chuckling at the remembrance . 
And away went Tom to find the boy in question , who dwelt in a little study by himself , in New Row . 
`` Open , Martin , old boy -- it 's only I , Tom Brown . '' 
Tom gave a kick , the other bolt creaked , and he entered the den . 
As soon as prayers were over , and the sixth and fifth form boys had withdrawn to the aristocratic seclusion of their own room , and the rest , or democracy , had sat down to their supper in the Hall ; Tom and Arthur , having secured their allowances of bread and cheese , started on their feet to catch the eye of the prpostor of the week , who remained in charge during supper , walking up and down the Hall . 
This Tom had insisted on , for he was in great delight on the occasion ; the reason of which delight must be expounded . 
The fact was that this was the first attempt at a friendship of his own which Arthur had made , and Tom haield it as a grand step . 
The ease with which he himself became hail-fellow-well-met with anybody , and blundered into and out of twenty friendships a half-year , made him sometimes sorry and sometimes angry at Arthur 's reserve and loneliness . 
True , Arthur was always pleasant , and even jolly , with any boys who came with Tom to their study ; but Tom felt that it was only through him , as it were , that his chum assoicated with others , and that but for him Arthur would have been dwelling in a wilderness . 
And Tom was becoming a new boy , though with frequent tumbles in the dirt and perpetual hard battle with himself , and was daily growing in manfulness and thoughtfulness , as every high-couraged and well-principled boy must , when he finds himself for the first time consciously at grips with self and the devil . 
In a minute or two the noise of the boys coming up from supper was heard , and Martin knocked and was admitted , bearing his bread and cheese , and the three fell to with hearty good will upon the viands , talking faster than they eat , for all shyness disappeared in a moment before Tom 's bottled-beer and hospitable ways . 
`` Well , I say , '' sputtered out Martin eagerly , `` will you come tomorrow , both of you , to Caldecott 's Spinney then , for I know of a kestrel 's nest , up a fir-tree -- I ca n't get at it without help ; and , Brown , you can climb against any one . '' 
`` Aye , the old madman has got the best collection in the house , out-and-out , '' said Tom ; and then Martin , warming with unaccustomed good cheer and the chance of a convert , launched out into a proposed birds ' - nesting campaign , betraying all manner of important secrets ; a golden-crested wren 's nest near Butlin 's Mound , a moorhen who was sitting on fourteen eggs in a pond down the Barby-road , and a kingfisher 's nest in a corner of the old canal above Brownsover Mill . 
`` There 's Harry , '' said Tom , `` we 'll let him in -- I 'll keep him steady , Martin . 
The fact was that Tom 's heart had already smitten him for not asking his ` fidus Achates ' to the feast although only an extempore affair ; and though prudence and the desire to get Martin and Arthur together alone at first , had overcome his scruples , he was now heartily glad to open the door , broach another bottle of beer , and hand over the old ham-knuckle to the searching of his old friend 's pocket-knife . 
What a stunning tap , Tom ! 
`` Scud knows nothing and cares for nothing but grub and mischief , '' said Tom ; `` but young rook pie , specially when you 've had to climb for them , is very pretty eating . 
And the bottled-beer being finished , and his hunger appeased , East departed to his study , `` that sneak Jones , '' as he informed them , who had just got into the sixth and occupied the next study , having instituted a nightly visitation upon East and his chum , to their no small discomfort . 
When he was gone , Martin rose to follow , but Tom stopped him . 
`` No one goes near New-row , '' said he , so you may just as well stop here and do your verses , and then we 'll have some more talk . 
Now in the study that night , Tom was the upholder of the traditionary method of vulgus doing . 
He carefully produced two large vulgus-books , and began diving into them , and picking out a line here , and an ending there , -LRB- tags as they were vulgarly called -RRB- , till he had gotten all that he thought he could make fit . 
He then proceeded to patch his tags together with the help of his Gradus , producing an incongrous and feeble result of eight elegiac lines , the minimum quantity for his form , and finishing up with two highly moral lines extra , making ten in all , which he cribbed entire from one of his books , beginning `` O genus humanum , '' and which he himself must have used a dozen times before , whenever an unfortunate or wicked hero , of whatever nation or language under the sun , was the subject . 
He , no more than Tom , took any pleasure in the task , but having no old vulgus-books of his own or any one 's else , could not follow the traditionary method , for which too , as Tom remarked , he had n't the genius . 
The next morning at first lesson Tom was turned back in his lines , and so had to wait till the second round , while Martin and Arthur said theirs all right and got out of school at once . 
When Tom got out and ran down to breakfast at Harrowell 's they were missing , and Stumps informed him that they had swallowed down their breakfasts and gone off together , where he could n't say . 
Tom hurried over his own breakfast , and went first to Martin 's study and then to his own , but no signs of the missing boys were to be found . 
`` Oh Tom , look here , '' cried he , holding out three moorhen 's eggs ; `` we 've been down the Barby-road to the pool Martin told us of last night , and just see what we 've got . '' 
Tom would n't be pleased , and only looked out for something to find fault with . 
`` Why , young ` un , '' said he , `` what have you been after ? 
The tone of reproach made poor little Arthur shrink up in a moment and look piteous , and Tom with a shrug of his shoulders turned his anger on Martin . 
said Tom ; `` a fellow ca n't turn his back for a moment but all his work 's undone . 
`` Indeed , Tom , now , '' pleaded Arthur , `` my feet ai n't wet , for Martin made me take off my shoes and stockings and trousers . '' 
answered Tom ; `` and you 'll be called up and floored when the master sees what a state you 're in . 
Oh Tom , you old humbug ! 
This somewhat appeases Tom 's wrath , and by the end of the lesson he has regained his temper . 
And afterwards in their study he begins to get right again , as he watches Arthur 's intense joy at seeing Martin blowing the eggs and glueing them carefully on to bits of cardboard , and notes the anxious loving looks which the little fellow casts sidelong at him . 
Brown and East may be better at cricket and foot-ball and games , thinks he , but out in the fields and woods see if I ca n't teach them something . 
He has taken the leadership already , and strides away in front with his climbing-irons strapped under one arm , his pecking-bag under the other , and his pockets and hat full of pill-boxes , cotton-wool , and other etceteras . 
Each of the others carries a pecking-bag , and East his hatchet . 
When they had crossed three or four fields without a check , Arthur began to lag , and Tom seeing this shouted to Martin to pull up a bit : `` We ai n't out Hare-and-hounds -- what 's the good of grinding on at this rate ? '' 
`` There , do n't you see , '' said East , pointing to a lump of mistletoe in the next tree , which was a beech : he saw that Martin and Tom were busy with the climbing-irons , and could n't resist the temptation of hoaxing . 
cried Tom looking up , having caught the word Himalayas , and suspecting what East was after . 
shouted Tom , `` why you do n't mean to say , young ` un , you do n't know a beech when you see one ? '' 
Martin and Tom , both of whom had irons on , tried it without success at first ; the fir bark broke away where they stuck the irons in as soon as they leant any weight on their feet , and the grip of their arms was n't enough to keep them up ; so after getting up three or four feet , down they came slithering to the ground , barking their arms and faces . 
`` We must try a pyramid , '' said Tom at last . 
However , up he got and leant against the tree , putting his head down and clasping it with his arms as far as he could . 
`` Now then , Madman , '' said Tom , `` you next . '' 
So Tom got on East 's shoulders and grasped the tree above , and then Martin scrambled up on to Tom 's shoulders , amidst the totterings and groanings of the pyramid , and with a spring which sent his supporters howling to the ground , clasped the stem some ten feet up , and remained clinging . 
`` Not a bit , '' answered Tom ; `` you ca n't hurt if you only get good hand-hold . 
leave one , and then she wo n't care , '' said Tom . 
it was addled , '' spluttered he , while the wood rang again with the merry laughter of East and Tom . 
Then they examined the prizes , gathered up their things , and went off to the brook , where Martin swallowed huge draughts of water to get rid of the taste ; and they visited the sedge-bird 's nest , and from thence struck across the country in high glee , beating the hedges and brakes as they went along ; and Arthur at last , to his intense delight , was allowed to climb a small hedgerow oak for a magpie 's nest with Tom , who kept all round him like a mother , and showed him where to hold and how to throw his weight ; and though he was in a great fright did n't show it , and was applauded by all for his lissomness . 
No one objected , so each boy filled the fustian bag he carried full of stones : they crossed into the next field , Tom and East taking one side of the hedges and the other two the other side . 
Tom and East had during the period of their outlawry visited the barn in question for felonious purposes , and on one occasion had conquered and slain a duck there , and borne away the carcase triumphantly , hidden in their handkerchiefs . 
`` Good gracious , Tom , what a lot of feathers a duck has , '' groaned East , holding a bag full in his hand , and looking disconsolately at the carcase not yet half plucked . 
`` And I do think he 's getting high too , already , '' said Tom , smelling at him cautiously , `` so we must finish him up soon . '' 
`` Yes , all very well , but how are we to cook him ? 
I wish we were rid of the brute , '' said Tom , throwing him on the table in disgust . 
And after a day or two more it became clear , that got rid of he must be ; so they packed him and scaled him up in brown paper , and put him in the cupboard of an unoccupied study , where he was found in the holidays by the matron , a grewsome body . 
They are almost within a stone 's throw of Martin , who is pressing the unlucky chase hard , when Tom catches sight of them and sings out , `` Louts , ware louts , your side ! 
However no boys are more able to take care of themselves than East and Martin ; they dodge the pursuers , slip through a gap , and come pelting after Tom and Arthur , whom they catch up in no time ; the farmer and his men are making good running about a field behind . 
Tom wishes to himself that they had made off in any other direction , but now they are all in for it together and must see it out . 
says he , as they haul poor little Arthur , already losing wind from the fright , through the next hedge . 
`` Let 's go to them and surrender , '' pants Tom . 
There is no time to explain , and Tom 's heart beats frightfully quick , as he ponders , `` Will they stand by us ? '' 
`` Nor I , '' `` nor I , '' chime in Tom and Martin . 
The boys deny stoutly , and Willum is driven to admit that , `` if it wor n't they 't was chaps as like 'em as two peas ` n ; '' and `` leastways he 'll swear he see 'd them two in the yard last Martinmas , '' indicating East and Tom . 
`` Indeed that 's all true , Holmes , upon my honour , '' added Tom ; `` we were n't after his fowls ; guinea-hen ran out of the hedge under our feet , and we 've seen nothing else . '' 
It was at last settled that they should pay the farmer two shillings and his man one shilling , and so the matter ended , to the unspeakable relief of Tom , who had n't been able to say a word , being sick at heart at the idea of what the Doctor would think of him : and now the whole party of boys marched off down the footpath towards Rugby . 
Martin became a constant inmate in the joint study from this time , and Arthur took to him so kindly that Tom could n't resist slight fits of jealousy , which however he managed to keep to himself . 
In token of his gratitude , Arthur allowed Martin to tattoo a small anchor on one of his wrists , which decoration however he carefully concealed from Tom . 
Tom Brown was one of these ; and as it is our well-weighed intention to give a full , true , and correct account of Tom 's only single combat with a school-fellow in the manner of our old friend Bell 's Life , let those young persons whose stomachs are not strong , or who think a good set-to with the weapons which God has given us all , an uncivilised , unchristian , or ungentlemanly affair , just skip this chapter at once , for it wo n't be to their taste . 
Every one who is worth his salt has his enemies , who must be beaten , be they evil thoughts and habits in himself , or spiritual wickedness in high places , or Russians , or Border-ruffians , or Bill , Tom , or Harry , who will not let him live his life in quiet till he has thrashed them . 
It is a whole school-day , and four or five of the School-house boys -LRB- amongst whom are Arthur , Tom , and East -RRB- are preparing third lesson together . 
Tom , who is n't paying much attention , is suddenly caught by the falter in his voice as he reads the two lines -- -- su de paraifamenoV katerukeV shd cents , aganwfrosunh kai sois aganoiV epeessin . 
But as he nears the fatal two lines , Tom catches that falter again and looks up . 
Now as luck would have it , there sat next above Tom on that day , in the middle bench of the form , a big boy , by name Williams , generally supposed to be the cock of the shell , therefore of all the school below the fifths . 
The small boys , who are great speculators on the prowess of their elders , used to hold forth to one another about Williams 's great strength , and to discuss whether East or Brown would take a licking from him . 
He was called Slogger Williams , from the force with which it was supposed he could hit . 
In the main , he was a rough goodnatured fellow enough , but very much alive to his own dignity . 
He reckoned himself the king of the form , and kept up his position with the strong hand , especially in the matter of forcing boys not to construe more than the legitimate forty lines . 
said Tom , to whom the remark seemed to be addressed . 
`` No , you sha n't , '' said Tom . 
exclaimed Williams , looking at Tom with great surprise for a moment , and then giving him a sudden dig in the ribs with his elbow , which sent Tom 's books flying on to the floor , and called the attention of the master , who turned suddenly round , and seeing the state of things , said -- `` Williams , go down three places , and then go on . '' 
The Slogger found his legs very slowly , and proceeded to go below Tom and two other boys with great disgust , and then turning round and facing the master , said , `` I have ` nt learnt any more , sir ; our lesson is only forty lines . '' 
Tom was detained in school a few minutes after the rest , and on coming out into the quadrangle , the first thing he saw was a small ring of boys , applauding Williams , who was holding Arthur by the collar . 
said Tom , shouldering into the crowd , `` you drop that , Williams ; you sha n't touch him . '' 
said the Slogger , raising his hand again . 
`` I , '' said Tom ; and suiting the action to the word , struck the arm which held Arthur 's collar so sharply , that the Slogger dropped it with a start , and turned the full current of his wrath on Tom . 
`` Huzza , there 's going to be a fight between Slogger Williams and Tom Brown . '' 
`` Just run and tell East to come and back me , '' said Tom to a small School-house boy , who was off like a rocket to Harrowell 's , just stopping for a moment to poke his head into the School-house hall , where the lower boys were already at tea , and sing out , `` Fight ! 
Tom Brown and Slogger Williams . '' 
Tom felt he had got his work cut out for him , as he stripped off his jacket , waistcoat , and braces . 
East tied his handkerchief round his waist , and rolled up his shirt-sleeves for him : `` Now , old boy , do n't you open your mouth to say a word , or try to help yourself a bit , we 'll do all that ; you keep all your breath and strength for the Slogger . '' 
Martin meanwhile folded the clothes and put them under the chapel rails ; and now Tom , with East to handle him and Martin to give him a knee , steps out on to the turf , and is ready for all that may come : and here is the Slogger too , all stripped , and thirsting for the fray . 
Tom on the contrary , thought not half so strong in the arms , is good all over , straight , hard , and springy , from neck to ancle , better perhaps in his legs than anywhere . 
Besides , you can see by the clear white of his eye and fresh bright look of his skin , that he is in tip-top training , able to do all he knows ; while the Slogger looks rather sodden , as if he did ` nt take much exercise and eat too much tuck . 
`` If Tom 'll only condescend to fight with his head and heels , '' as East mutters to Martin , `` we shall do . '' 
`` Take it easy , take it easy -- keep away , let him come after you , '' implores East , as he wipes Tom 's face after the first round with wet sponge , while he sits back on Martin 's knee , supported by the Madman 's long arms , which tremble a little from excitement . 
`` There he goes again , hang it all ! '' 
A very severe round follows , in which Tom gets out-and-out the worst of it , and is at last hit clean off his legs , and deposited on the grass by a right-hander from the Slogger . 
Meantime East is freshening up Tom with the sponges for next round , and has set two other boys to rub his hands . 
`` Tom , old boy , '' whispers he , `` this may be fun for you , but it 's death to me . 
Feint him -- use your legs ! 
draw him about ! 
he 'll lose his wind then in no time , and you can go into him . 
Hit at his body too , we 'll take care of his frontispiece by-and-bye . '' 
Tom felt the wisdom of the counsel , and saw already that he could ` nt go in and finish the Slogger off at mere hammer and tongs , so changed his tactics completely in the third round . 
He now fights cautions , getting away from and parrying the Slogger 's lunging hits , instead of trying to counter , and leading his enemy a dance all round the ring after him . 
`` He 's funking , go in Williams , '' `` Catch him up , '' `` Finish him off , '' scream the samll boys of the Slogger party . 
`` Just what we want , '' thinks East , chuckling to himself , as he sees Williams , excited by these shouts and thinking the game in his own hands , blowing himself in his exertions to get to close quarters again , while Tom is keeping away with perfect ease . 
They quarter over the ground again and again , Tom always on the defensive . 
`` Now then , Tom , '' sings out East , dancing with delight . 
Tom goes in in a twinkling , and hits two heavy body blows , and gets away again before the Slogger can catch his wind ; which when he does he rushes with blind fury at Tom , and being skilfully parried and avoided , over-reaches himself and falls on his face , amidst terrific cheers from the School-house boys . 
So he too begins to use his head , and tries to make Tom lose patience , and come in before his time . 
Tom 's face begins to look very one-sided -- there are little queer bumps on his forehead , and his mouth is bleeding ; but East keeps the wet sponges going so scientifically , that he comes up looking as fresh and bright as ever . 
Williams is only slightly marked in the face , but by the nervous movement of his elbows you can see that Tom 's body blows are telling . 
In fact half the vice of the Slogger 's hitting is neutralized , for he dare ` nt lunge out freely for fear of exposing his sides . 
Once only , when the shouts of `` Well done , Brown ! '' 
Catching sight of Tom 's face in the state I have described , all fear of consequences vanishing out of his mind , he rushed straight off to the matron 's room , beseeching her to get the fight stopped , or he shall die . 
East ca n't help shouting challenges to two or three of the other side , though he never leaves Tom for a moment , and plies the sponges as fast as ever . 
The fact is , that at the end of the last round , Tom seeing a good opening had closed with his opponent , and after a moment 's struggle had thrown him heavily , by help of the fall he had learnt from his village rival in the Vale of White Horse . 
Williams had ` nt the ghost of a chance with Tom at wrestling ; and the conviction broke at once on the Slogger faction , that if this were allowed their man must be licked . 
`` Please , Brooke , come up , they wo n't let Tom Brown throw him . '' 
says he to East , nodding at Tom . 
Ai n't there , Tom ? '' 
Tom looks at Brooke and grins . 
`` How 's he ? '' 
`` So , so ; rather done , I think , since his last fall . 
Brooke ca n't find it in his heart to stop them just yet , so the round goes on , the Slogger waiting for Tom , and reserving all his strength to hit him out should he come in for the wrestling dodge again , for he feels that that must be stopped , or his sponge will soon go up in the air . 
And now another new comer appears on the field , to wit the under-porter , with his long brush and great wooden receptacle for dust under his arm . 
`` You 'd better stop , gentlemen , '' he says ; `` the Doctor knows that Brown 's fighting -- he 'll be out in a minute . '' 
`` You go to Bath , Bill , '' is all that that excellent servitor gets by his advice . 
And being a man of his hands , and a staunch upholder of the School-house , ca n't help stopping to look on for a bit , and see Tom Brown , their pet craftsman , fight a round . 
Tom works slowly round for an opening , he has all the legs , and can choose his own time ; the Slogger waits for the attack , and hopes to finish it by some heavy right-handed blow . 
Tom darts in , the heavy right-hand is delivered , but only grazes his head . 
`` No thank ` ee , '' answers the other , diving his hands further into his coat-tails . 
Just at this stage of the proceedings the door of the turret which leads to the Doctor 's library suddenly opens , and he steps into the close , and makes straight for the ring , in which Brown and the Slogger are both seated on their second 's knees for the last time . 
shouts some small boy who catches sight of him , and the ring melts away in a few seconds , the small boys tearing off , Tom collaring his jacket and waistcoat and slipping through the little gate by the chapel , and round the corner to Harrowell 's with his backers , as lively as need be . 
`` Who was fighting with Brown ? '' 
He is bigger than Brown , and had the best of it at first , but not when you came up , sir . 
Meantime Tom and the staunchest of his adherents had reached Harrowell 's , and Sally was bustling about to get them a late tea , while Stumps had been sent off to Tew the butcher , to get a piece of raw beef for Tom 's eye , which was to be healed off-hand so that he might shew well in the morning . 
He was not a bit the worse except a slight difficulty in his vision , a singing in his ears , and a sprained thumb , which he kept in a coldwater bandage , while he drank lots of tea , and listened to the Babel of voices talking and speculating of nothing but the fight , and how Williams would have given in after another fall -LRB- which he did n't in the least believe -RRB- , and how on earth the Doctor could have got to know of it , such bad luck ! 
And then poor little Arthur crept in and sat down quietly near him , and kept looking at him and the raw beef with such plaintive looks , that Tom at last burst out laughing . 
`` Do n't make such eyes , young ` un , '' said he , `` there 's nothing the matter . '' 
`` Oh but , Tom , are you much hurt ? 
Directly after locking-up , one of the night fags knocked at Tom 's door . 
`` Brown , young Brooke wants you in the sixth-form room . '' 
Up went Tom to the summons , and found the magnates sitting at their supper . 
`` Well , Brown , '' said young Brooke , nodding to him , `` how do you feel ? '' 
Tom obeyed , by no means loth . 
And the fifth-form boy next him filled him a tumbler of bottled-beer , and he eat and drank , listening to the pleasant talk , and wondering how soon he should be in the fifth , and one of that much envied society . 
As he got up to leave , Brooke said , `` You must shake hands tomorrow morning ; I shall come and see that done after first lesson . '' 
And so he did . 
And Tom and the Slogger shook hands with great satisfaction and mutual respect . 
but you should just have seen the fight between Slogger Williams and Tom Brown ! '' 
East and Tom have been much more deliberate in their progress , and are only a little way up the fifth form . 
Constant intercourse with Arthur has done much for both of them , especially for Tom ; but much remains yet to be done , if they are to get all the good out of Rugby which is to be got there in these times . 
`` I hope not , '' said Tom ; `` there 'll be no Marylebone match then at the end of the half . '' 
Tom had gone into chapel in sickening anxiety about Arthur , but he came out cheered and strengthened by those grand words , and walked up alone to their study . 
Tom made many appeals to be allowed to see him , and several times tried to get up to the sick-room ; but the housekeeper was always in the way , and at last spoke to the Doctor , who kindly , but peremptorily , forbade him . 
The crisis came on Saturday , the day week that Thompson had died ; and during that long afternoon Tom sat in his study reading his bible , and going every half-hour to the housekeeper 's room , expecting each time to hear that the gentle and brave little spirit had gone home . 
But God had work for Arthur to do : the crisis passed -- on Sunday evening he was declared out of danger ; on Monday he sent a message to Tom that he was almost well , had changed his room , and was to be allowed to see him the next day . 
It was evening when the housekeeper summmoned him to the sick-room . 
Tom remembered a German picture of an angel which he knew ; often had he thought how transparent and golden and spirit-like it was ; and he shuddered to think how like it Arthur looked , and felt a shock as if his blood had all stopped short , as he realised how near the other world his friend must have been to look like that . 
Arthur laid his thin white hand , on which the blue veins stood out so plainly , on Tom 's great brown fist , and smiled at him ; and then looked out of the window again , as if he could n't bear to lose a moment of the sunset , into the tops of the great feathery elms , round which the rooks were circling and clanging , returned in flocks from their evening 's foraging parties . 
`` Dear George , '' said Tom , `` I am so glad to be let up to see you at last . 
`` Oh , I know , Tom ; Mary has told me every day about you , and how she was obliged to make the Doctor speak to you to keep you away . 
said Tom proudly ; `` I 'm ninth too . 
`` Well , I think you ought to be higher yet , '' said Arthur , who was as jealous for the renown of Tom in games , as Tom was for his as a scholar . 
Tom felt a pang of jealousy , but kicked it out in a moment . 
`` Fancy him on a South-sea island , with the Cherokees or Patagonians , or some such wild niggers ; '' -LRB- Tom 's ethnology and geography were faulty , but sufficient for his needs ;-RRB- `` they 'll make the old Madman cock medicine-man , and tattoo him all over . 
`` Do you remember , Tom , how you and East used to laugh at him and chaff him , because he said he was sure the rooks all had calling-over , or prayers , or something of the sort , when the locking-up bell rang . 
Well , I declare , '' said Arthur , looking up seriously into Tom 's laughing eyes , `` I do think he was right . 
said Tom , looking up at them . 
The sound soon carried Tom off to the river and the woods , and he began to go over in his mind the many occasions on which he had heard that toll coming faintly down the breeze , and had to pack up his rod in a hurry and make a run for it , to get in before the gates were shut . 
He was roused with a start from his memories by Arthur 's voice , gentle and weak from his late illness . 
`` Tom , will you be angry if I talk to you very seriously ? '' 
Tom was rattling on , half in joke , half in earnest , for he wanted to get Arthur out of his serious vein , thinking it would do him harm ; but Arthur broke in -- `` Oh please , Tom , stop , or you 'll drive all I had to say out of my head . 
`` Do n't gammon , young ` un , '' rejoined Tom , -LRB- the use of the old name , dear to him from old recollections , made Arthur start and smile , and feel quite happy -RRB- ; `` you know you ai n't afraid , and you 've never made me angry since the first month we chummed together . 
`` Dear Tom , I ai n't going to pitch into you , '' said Arthur piteously ; `` and it seems so cocky in me to be advising you , who 've been my backbone ever since I 've been at Rugby , and have made the school a paradise to me . 
Tom , I want you to give up using vulgus-books and cribs . '' 
Arthur sank back on to his pillow with a sigh , as if the effort had been great ; but the worst was now over , and he looked straight at Tom , who was evidently taken aback . 
He leant his elbows on his knees and stuck his hands into his hair , whistled a verse of Billy Taylor , and then was quite silent for another minute . 
Tom thought a minute . 
I want to leave behind me , '' said Tom , speaking slow and looking much moved , `` the name of a fellow who never bullied a little boy , or turned his back on a big one . '' 
`` Arthur pressed his hand , and after a moment 's silence went on : `` You say , Tom , you want to please the Doctor . 
Now do you want to please him by what he thinks you do , or by what you really do ? '' 
`` Does he think you use cribs and vulgus-books ? '' 
Tom felt at once that his flank was turned , but he could ` nt give in . 
`` He was at Winchester himself , '' said he , `` he knows all about it . '' 
`` Yes , but does he think you use them ? 
Do you think he approves of it ? '' 
`` You young villain , '' said Tom , shaking his fist at Arthur , half vexed and half pleased , `` I never think about it . 
Hang it -- there , perhaps he do n't . 
Well , I suppose he do n't . '' 
After another minute Tom began again : `` Look here , young ` un , how on earth am I to get time to play the matches this half , if I give up cribs ? 
Tom groaned at the thought of his accumulated labours . 
Tom was the first to break it . 
said he , with a mixture of awe and curiosity , feeling as if his friend had been in some strange place or scene , of which he could form no idea , and full of the memory of his own thoughts during the last week . 
`` More thanks to old Martin , '' said Tom ; `` he 's been your real friend . '' 
`` Nonsense , Tom , he never could have done for me what you have . '' 
Then Tom , who was quite full of it , told Arthur of the burial service in the chapel , and how it had impressed him , and , he believed , all the other boys . 
`` And though the Doctor never said a word about it , '' said he , `` and it was a half-holiday and match day , there was n't a game played in the close all the afternoon , and the boys all went about as if it were Sunday . '' 
`` But , Tom , I 've had such strange thoughts about death lately . 
Tom was taken quite aback . 
`` What in the world is the young ` un after now , '' thought he ; `` I 've swallowed a good many of his crotchets , but this altogether beats me . 
He ca n't be quite right in his head . '' 
`` No , no , indeed I ai n't , Tom ; you must stop till nine , there 's only twenty minutes . 
Arthur stopped -- from exhaustion Tom thought ; but what between his fear lest Arthur should hurt himself , his awe , and longing for him to go on , he could n't ask or stir to help him . 
Tom , do you remember the living creatures and the wheels in Ezekiel ? 
And as I looked I saw my mother and my sisters , and I saw the Doctor , and you , Tom , and hundreds more whom I knew ; and at last I saw myself too , and I was toiling and doing ever so little a piece of the great work . 
Tom , '' said Arthur gently , after another minute , `` do you see why I could not grieve now to see my dearest friend die ? 
Tom could not speak , he was almost afraid to breathe , lest he should break the train of Arthur 's thoughts . 
But , mother , here 's my friend , here 's Tom Brown -- you know him ? '' 
`` Yes , indeed , I 've known him for years , '' she said , and held out her hand to Tom , who was now standing up behind the sofa . 
Tom held her hand , and looked on straight in her face ; he could neither let it go nor speak . 
`` Now , Tom , '' said Arthur , laughing , `` where are your manners ? 
Tom dropped the little hand with a sigh . 
Here , dearest mother , there 's room here , '' and he made a place on the sofa for her . 
`` Tom , you need ` nt go ; I 'm sure you wo n't be called up at first lesson . '' 
Tom felt that he would risk being floored at every lesson for the rest of his natural school-life , sooner than go ; so sat down . 
And then he led away the talk to their home in Devonshire , and the red bright earth , and the deep green combes , and the peat streams like cairn-gorm pebbles , and the wild moor with its high cloudy Tors for a giant background to the picture -- till Tom got jealous , and stood up for the clear chalk streams , and the emerald water meadows and great elms and willows of the dear old Royal county , as he gloried to call it . 
Then Tom rose with a sigh to go . 
said he , as he shook his friend 's hand . 
Tom was quite upset ; he mumbled something about owing everything good in him to Geordie -- looked in her face again , pressed her hand to his lips , and rushed down stairs to his study , where he sat till old Thomas came kicking at the door , to tell him his allowance would be stopped if he did n't go off to bed . 
-LRB- It would have been stopped anyhow , but that he was a great favourite with the old gentleman , who loved to come out in the afternoons into the close to Tom 's wicket , and bowl slow twisters to him , and talk of the glories of by-gone Surrey heroes , with whom he had played in former generations . -RRB- 
So Tom roused himself and took up his candle to go to bed ; and then for the first time was aware of a beautiful new fishing-rod , with old Eton 's mark on it , and a splendidly bound bible , which lay on his table , on the titlepage of which was written -- `` Tom Brown , from his affectionate and grateful friends , Frances Jane Arthur ; George Arthur . '' 
I leave you all to guess how he slept , and what he dreamt of . 
The next morning after breakfast , Tom , East , and Gower met as usual to learn their second lesson together . 
Tom had been considering how to break his proposal of giving up the crib to the others , and having found no better way , -LRB- as indeed none better can ever be found by man or boy , -RRB- told them simply what had happened ; how he had been to see Arthur , who had talked to him upon the subject , and what he had said , and for his part he had made up his mind and was ` nt going to use cribs any more . 
`` I do n't know about ruin , '' answered Tom ; `` I know that you and I would have had the sack long ago , if it had ` nt been for him . 
`` I say , Gower , '' said Tom appealingly , `` be a good fellow , and let 's try if we ca n't get on without the crib . '' 
`` I say , Tom , '' cried East , having hit on a new idea , `` do n't you remember , when we were in the upper fourth , and old Momus caught me construing off the leaf of a crib which I 'd torn out and put in my book , and which would float out on to the floor ; he sent me up to be flogged for it ? '' 
said Tom ; `` then Arthur must be wrong . '' 
Tom satisfied with having made his confession , and not sorry to have a locus poenitenti , and not to be deprived altogether of the use of his old and faithful friend . 
Of course Tom could n't object to this , as , was it not simply lying there to be appealed to in case the sentence should prove too hard altogether for the construer ? 
Tom however with the most heroic virtue and gallantry rushed into his sentence , searching in a high-minded manner for nominative and verb , and turning over his dictionary frantically for the first hard word which stopped him . 
`` I think you must take it this way , Brown ; '' and as Tom did n't see his way to not profiting by these suggestions , the lesson went on about as quickly as usual , and Gower was able to start for the fives ' - court within five minutes of the half-hour . 
When Tom and East were left face to face , they looked at one another for a minute , Tom puzzled , and East chock-full of fun , and then burst into a roar of laughter . 
`` Well , Tom , '' said East , recovering himself , `` I do n't see any objection to the new way . 
Tom shoved his hand into his back hair . 
`` I ai n't so sure , '' said he ; `` you two fellows carried me off my legs : I do n't think we really tried one sentence fairly . 
`` The thing to find out , '' said Tom meditatively , `` is , how long one ought to grind at a sentence without looking at the crib . 
`` To be sure , Tommy , '' said East demurely , but with a merry twinkle in his eye . 
`` Your new doctrine too , old fellow , '' added he , `` when one comes to think of it , is a cutting at the root of all school morality . 
Hang it , Tom , if you 're going to deprive all our school-fellows of the chance of exercising Christian benevolence and being good Samaritans , I shall cut the concern . '' 
Listen to me , Tom . 
Why , Tom , you would n't be so cruel as never to let old Momus hum over the ` O genus humanum ' again , and then look up doubtingly through his spectacles , and end by smiling and giving three extra marks for it ; just for old sake 's sake , I suppose . 
`` Well , '' said Tom , getting up in something as like a huff as he was capable of , `` it 's deuced hard that when a fellow 's really trying to do what he ought , his best friends 'll do nothing but chaff him and try to put him down . '' 
And he stuck his books under his arm and his hat on his head , preparatory to rushing out into the quadrangle , to testify with his own soul of the faithlessness of friendships . 
`` Now do n't be an ass , Tom , '' said East , catching hold of him , `` you know me well enough by this time ; my bark 's worse than my bite . 
You ca n't expect to ride your new crotchet without anybody 's trying to stick a nettle under his tail and make him kick you off : especially as we shall all have to go on foot still . 
Then Tom sat himself down on the table , and waxed eloquent about all the righteousnesses and advantages of the new plan , as was his wont whenever he took up anything ; going into it as if his life depended upon it , and sparing no abuse which he could think of of the opposite method , which he denounced as ungentlemanly , cowardly , mean , lying , and no one knows what besides . 
`` Very cool of Tom , '' as East thought , but did n't say , `` seeing as how he only came out of Egypt himself last night at bed-time . '' 
`` Well , Tom , '' said he at last , `` you see when you and I came to school there were none of these sort of notions . 
That 's my school morality ; it 's served me , and you too , Tom , for the matter of that , these five years . 
Tom looked at him , pleased , and a little puzzled . 
He had never heard East speak his mind seriously before , and could n't help feeling how completely he had hit his own theory and practice up to that time . 
`` Thank you , old fellow , '' said he . 
`` I do n't think it 's only that , '' said Tom . 
I say though , '' looking at his watch , `` it 's just the quarter . 
As they walked out they got a message to say , ` that Arthur was just starting and would like to say goodbye ; ' so they went down to the private entrance of the School-house , and found an open carriage , with Arthur propped up with pillows in it , looking already better , Tom thought . 
They jumped up on to the steps to shake hands with him , and Tom mumbled thanks for the presents he had found in his study , and looked round anxiously for Arthur 's mother . 
Tom struck in -- `` Oh , it 's all right . 
The clock struck and they had to go off to school , wishing Arthur a pleasant holiday ; Tom lingering behind a moment to send his thanks and love to Arthur 's mother . 
Tom renewed the discussion after second lesson , and succeeded so far as to get East to promise to give the new plan a fair trial . 
Encouraged by his success , in the evening , when they were sitting alone in the large study , where East lived now almost , ` vice Arthur on leave , ' after examining the new fishing-rod , which both pronounced to be the genuine article , -LRB- ` play enough to throw a midge tied on a single hair against the wind , and strength enough to hold a grampus , ' -RRB- they naturally began talking about Arthur . 
Tom , who was still bubbling over with last night 's scene and all the thoughts of the last week , and wanting to clinch and fix the whole in his own mind , which he could never do without first going through the process of belabouring somebody else with it all , suddenly rushed into the subject of Arthur 's illness , and what he had said about death . 
Hanged if I do n't think now really , Tom , that he believes himself a much worse fellow than you or I , and that he do n't think he has more influence in the house than Dot Bowles , who came last quarter , and ai n't ten yet . 
And East nodded at Tom sagaciously . 
thought Tom ; so shutting his eyes and hardening his heart , he went straight at it , repeating all that Arthur had said , as near as he could remember it , in the very words , and all he had himself thought . 
The fact is , that in the stage of his inner life at which Tom had lately arrived , his intimacy with and friendship for East could not have lasted if he had not made him aware of , and a sharer in , the thoughts that were beginning to exercise him . 
Nor indeed could the friendship have lasted if East had shewn no sympathy with these thoughts ; so that it was a great relief to have unbosomed himself , and to have found that his friend could listen . 
Tom had always had a sort of instinct that East 's levity was only skin-deep , and this instinct was a true one . 
East had no want of reverence for anything he felt to be real : but his was one of those natures that burst into what is generally called recklessness and impiety the moment they feel that anything is being poured upon them for their good , which does not come home to their inborn sense of right , or which appeals to anything like self-interest in them . 
Daring and honest by nature , and outspoken to an extent which alarmed all respectabilities , with a constant fund of animal health and spirits which he did not feel bound to curb in any way , he had gained for himself with the steady part of the School -LRB- including as well those who wished to appear steady as those who really were so -RRB- , the character of a boy whom it would be dangerous to be intimate with ; while his own hatred of every thing cruel , or underhand , or false , and his hearty respect for what he could see to be good and true , kept off the rest . 
Tom , besides being very like East in many points of character , had largely developed in his composition the capacity for taking the weakest side . 
This is not putting it strongly enough , it was a necessity with him , he could ` nt help it any more than he could eating or drinking . 
Now though East was not what is generally called unpopular , Tom felt more and more every day , as their characters developed , that he stood alone , and did not make friends among their cotemporaries ; and therefore sought him out . 
Tom was himself much more popular , for his power of detecting humbug was much less acute , and his instincts were much more sociable . 
He was at this period of his life , too , largely given to taking people for what they gave themselves out to be ; but his singleness of heart , fearlessness , and honesty were just what East appreciated , and thus the two had been drawn into great intimacy . 
This intimacy had not been interrupted by Tom 's guardianship of Arthur . 
East had remained lying down until Tom finished speaking , as if fearing to interrupt him ; he now sat up at the table and leant his head on one hand , taking up a pencil with the other and working little holes with it in the table-cover . 
After a bit he looked up , stopped the pencil , and said , `` Thank you very much , old fellow ; there 's no other boy in the house would have done it for me but you or Arthur . 
I can see well enough , '' he went on after a pause , `` all the best big fellows look on me with suspicion ; they think I 'm a devil-may-care reckless young scamp -- So I am -- eleven hours out of twelve -- but not the twelfth . 
`` Not a bit of it , '' said East bitterly , pegging away with his pencil . 
`` I only wish it was , Tom . 
persisted Tom ; `` you do n't drink or swear , or get out at night ; you never bully , or cheat at lessons . 
Then with an effort he went on , `` I 'll tell you what it is . 
`` Yes , I 've seen that , '' said Tom , `` and I 've been very sorry for it , and Arthur and I have talked about it . 
said Tom , in astonishment . 
East stopped speaking , and pegged away more diligently than ever with his pencil . 
Tom was ready to cry . 
He felt half sorry at first that he had been confirmed himself . 
He seemed to have deserted his earliest friend , to have left him by himself at his worst need for those long years . 
He got up and went and sat by East , and put his arm over his shoulder . 
`` Dear old boy , '' he said , `` how careless and selfish I 've been . 
`` I 'll tell you now how 't was with me , '' said Tom warmly . 
Do n't stare , Tom ; mind , I 'm telling you all that 's in my heart -- as far as I know it -- but it 's all a muddle . 
but , Harry , they ai n't , they do n't , '' broke in Tom , really shocked . 
`` I say now , '' said Tom eagerly , `` do you remember how we both hated Flashman ? '' 
East buried his face in his hands on the table . 
Tom could feel the table tremble . 
At last he looked up . 
`` Thank you again , Tom , '' said he ; `` you do n't know what you may have done for me to-night . 
said Tom . 
Tom watched , and saw the Doctor turn round when he heard footsteps following him closer than usual , and say , `` Hah , East ! 
`` If you please , sir ; '' and the private door closed , and Tom went to his study in a state of great trouble of mind . 
It was almost an hour before East came back ; then he rushed in breathless . 
`` Well , it 's all right , '' he shouted , seizing Tom by the hand . 
`` Hurra , '' said Tom ; `` I knew it would be , but tell us all about it . '' 
and he seized Tom 's hand again . 
said Tom . 
Tom 's delight was as great as his friend 's . 
But he had n't yet had out all his own talk , and was bent on improving the occasion : so he proceeded to propound Arthur 's theory about not being sorry for his friend 's deaths , which he had hitherto kept in the background , and by which he was much exercised ; for he did n't feel it honest to take what pleased him and throw over the rest , and was trying vigorously to persuade himself that he should like all his best friends to die off-hand . 
But East 's powers of remaining serious were exhausted , and in five minutes he was saying the most ridiculous things he could think of , till Tom was almost getting angry again . 
Despite of himself , however , he could n't help laughing and giving it up , when East appealed to him with `` Well , Tom , you ai n't going to punch my head I hope , because I insist upon being sorry when you go to earth ? '' 
It is Tom Brown , grown into a young man nineteen years old , a prpostor and captain of the eleven , spending his last day as a Rugby boy , and let us hope as much wiser as he is bigger since we last had the pleasure of coming across him . 
He too is no longer a boy , less of a boy in fact than Tom , if one may judge from the thoughtfulness of his face , which is somewhat paler too than one could wish ; but his figure though slight is well knit and active , and all his old timidity has disappeared , and is replaced by silent quaint fun , with which his face twinkles all over , as he listens to the broken talk between the other two , in which he joins every now and then . 
Tom has clearly abandoned the old theory of ` natural enemies ' in this case at any rate . 
`` Yes , the Knights , '' answered Tom . 
said Tom , giving him a stir with his foot . 
and the weapons are the language which you , Brown , have never half worked at ; and so , as I say , you must have lost all the delicate shades of meaning which make the best part of the fun . '' 
shouted Arthur , dropping his bat and clapping furiously , and Tom joined in with a `` bravo Johnson ! '' 
`` Yes , sir , '' answered Tom , looking up roguishly , `` I see ; only the question remains whether I should have got most good by understanding Greek particles or cricket thoroughly . 
Bailey has given him out -- do you see , Tom ? '' 
`` Well , it ca n't be helped , he has played very well . 
`` Let 's go and see , '' said Tom , rising ; but at this moment Jack Raggles and two or three more come running to the island moat . 
`` Oh , Brown , may n't I go in next ? '' 
`` Oh , do let the Swiper go in , '' chorus the boys ; so Tom yields against his better judgment . 
`` I daresay now I 've lost the match by this nonsense , '' he says as he sits down again ; `` they 'll be sure to get Jack 's wicket in three or four minutes ; however , you 'll have the chance , sir , of seeing a hard hit or two , '' adds he smiling and turning to the master . 
`` Come , none of your irony , Brown , '' answers the master . 
It 's an institution , '' said Tom . 
`` That 's very true , '' said Tom , `` and that 's why foot-ball and cricket , now one comes to think of it , are such much better games than fives ' or hare-and-hounds , or any others where the object is to come in first or to win for oneself , and not that one 's side may win . '' 
said Tom laughing ; `` at any rate he has n't got them yet , or he would n't have been such a flat to-night as to let Jack Raggles go in out of his turn . '' 
`` Tom , you 've a great deal to learn yet in the art of ruling . '' 
`` So am I , I 'm sure , '' said Tom ; `` and more and more sorry that I 've got to leave . '' 
This island now -- you remember the time , Brown , when it was laid out in small gardens , and cultivated by frost-bitten fags in February and March ? '' 
`` Of course I do , '' said Tom ; `` did n't I hate spending two hours in the afternoons grubbing in the tough dirt with the stump of a fives ' bat ? 
`` Well , so it was , '' said Tom looking down , `` but we fags could n't help ourselves . 
`` Why , the Easter Speeches were put off till Mid-summer , '' said Tom , `` and the sixth had the gymnastic poles put up here . '' 
`` The Doctor , I suppose , '' said Tom . 
`` Just Tom 's own way , '' chimed in Arthur , nudging Tom with his elbow , `` driving a nail where it will go ; '' to which allusion Tom answered by a sly kick . 
`` I knew how it would be , '' says Tom , rising . 
So they leave the island and go to the tent , and after deep consultation Arthur is sent in , and goes off to the wicket with a last exhortation from Tom , to play steady and keep his bat straight . 
To the suggestions that Winter is the best bat left , Tom only replies , `` Arthur is the steadiest , and Johnson will make the runs if the wicket is only kept up . '' 
`` Well , I 'm not quite sure that he ought to be in for his play , '' said Tom , `` but I could n't help putting him in . 
At last Arthur gets the ball again , and actually drives it forward for two , and feels prouder than when he got the three best prizes , at hearing Tom 's shout of joy , `` Well played , well played , young ` un ! '' 
But the next ball is too much for a young hand , and his bails fly different ways . 
Before Winter can get in , the omnibus which is to take the Lords ' men to the train pulls up at the side of the close , and Mr. Aislebie and Tom consult , and give out that the stumps will be drawn after the next over . 
But such a defeat is a victory : so think Tom and all the School eleven , as they accompany their conquerors to the omnibus , and send them off with three ringing cheers , after Mr. Aislebie has shaken hands all round , saying to Tom , `` I must compliment you , sir , on your eleven , and I hope we shall have you for a member if you come up to town . '' 
As Tom and the rest of the eleven were turning back into the close , and everybody was beginning to cry out for another country dance , encouraged by the success of the night before , the young master , who was just leaving the close , stopped him , and asked him to come up to tea at half-past eight , adding , `` I wo n't keep you more than half-an-hour , and ask Arthur to come up too . '' 
`` I 'll come up with you directly if you 'll let me , '' said Tom , `` for I feel rather melancholy , and not quite up to the country dance and supper with the rest . '' 
So Tom went off to get his boots and things from the tent , to tell Arthur of the invitation , and to speak to his second in command about stopping the dancing and shutting up the close as soon as it grew dusk . 
So Tom handed his things over to the man in charge of the tent , and walked quietly away to the gate where the master was waiting , and the two took their way together up the Hillmorton road . 
However , the guest seemed to think it a great joke , and presently , as they poked about round the house , mounted a wall from which he could reach a passage window : the window , as it turned out , was not bolted , so in another minute Tom was in the house and down at the front door , which he opened from inside . 
The master chuckled grimly at this burglarious entry , and insisted on leaving the hall-door and two of the front windows open , to frighten the truants on their return ; and then the two set about foraging for tea , in which operation the master was much at fault , having the faintest possible idea of where to find anything , and being moreover wondrously short-sighted ; but Tom by a sort of instinct knew the right cupboards in the kitchen and pantry , and soon managed to place on the snuggery table better materials for a meal than had appeared there probably during the reign of his tutor , who was then and there initiated , amongst other things , into the excellence of that mysterious condiment , a dripping cake . 
The cake was newly baked , and all rich and flaky ; Tom had found it reposing in the cook 's private cupboard , awaiting her return ; and as a warning to her they finished it to the last crumb . 
After some talk on the match , and other indifferent subjects , the conversation came naturally back to Tom 's approaching departure , over which he began again to make his moan . 
`` Yes , ever since East left , '' answered Tom . 
said Tom , brightening ; `` no fellow could handle boys better , and I suppose soldiers are very like boys . 
`` So it will , '' said Tom , staring into the fire . 
`` Poor dear Harry , '' he went on , `` how well I remember the day we were put out of the twenty . 
said Tom , looking up inquiringly . 
`` Well , I wish I were alongside of him , '' said Tom . 
said the master , pausing , with his lips close to his saucerfull of tea , and peering at Tom over it . 
I want to be doing some real good , feeling that I am not only at play in the world , '' answered Tom , rather puzzled to find out himself what he really did mean . 
`` You are mixing up two very different things in your head , I think , Brown , '' said the master , putting down his empty saucer , `` and you ought to get clear about them . 
And then the good man went on to talk wisely to Tom of the sort of work which he might take up as an undergraduate ; and warned him of the prevalent University sins , and explained to him the many and great differences between University and School life ; till the twilight changed into darkness , and they heard the truant servants stealing in by the back entrance . 
`` I wonder where Arthur can be , '' said Tom at last , looking at his watch ; `` why , it 's nearly half-past nine already . '' 
`` Nothing has given me greater pleasure , '' he went on , `` than your friendship for him , it has been the making of you both . '' 
`` Of me , at any rate , '' answered Tom ; `` I should never have been here now but for him . 
Tom looked at him inquiringly , and he went on . 
`` Yes , well enough , '' said Tom , `` it was the half-year before Arthur came . '' 
Up to this time Tom had never wholly given in to , or understood the Doctor . 
At first he had thoroughly feared him . 
For some years , as I have tried to shew , he had learnt to regard him with love and respect , and to think him a very great and wise and good man . 
But , as regarded his own position in the school , of which he was no little proud , Tom had no idea of giving any one credit for it but himself ; and , truth to tell , was a very self-conceited young gentleman on the subject . 
It was a new light to him to find , that besides teaching the sixth , and governing and guiding the whole School , editing classics , and writing histories , the great Head-master had found time in those busy years to watch over the career , even of him , Tom Brown , and his particular friends , -- and , no doubt , of fifty other boys at the same time ; and all this without taking the least credit to himself , or seeming to know , or let any one else know , that he ever thought particularly of any boy at all . 
However , the Doctor 's victory was complete from that moment over Tom Brown at any rate . 
He gave way at all points , and the enemy marched right over him , cavalry , infantry , and artillery , the land transport corps , and the camp followers . 
It had taken eight long years to do it , but now it was done thoroughly , and there was n't a corner of him left which did n't believe in the Doctor . 
Had he returned to school again , and the Doctor begun the half-year by abolishing fagging , and foot-ball , and the Saturday half-holiday , or all or any of the most cherished school institutions , Tom would have supported him with the blindest faith . 
And so , after a half confession of his previous shortcomings , and sorrowful adieus to his tutor , from whom he received two beautifully-bound volumes of the Doctor 's Sermons as a parting present , he marched down to the School-house , a hero-worshipper , who would have satisfied the soul of Thomas Carlyle himself . 
They had descended one sultry evening on the little inn at Kyle Rhea ferry , and while Tom and another of the party put their tackle together and began exploring the stream for a sea-trout for supper , the third strolled into the house to arrange for their entertainment . 
Presently he came out in a loose blouse and slippers , a short pipe in his mouth , and an old newspaper in his hand , and threw himself on the heathery scrub , which met the shingle within easy hail of the fishermen . 
There he lay , the picture of free-and-easy , loafing , hand-to-mouth young England , ` improving his mind , ' as he shouted to them , by the perusal of the fortnight-old weekly paper , soiled with the marks of toddy-glasses and tobacco ashes , the legacy of the last traveller , which he had hunted out from the kitchen of the little hostelry , and being a youth of a communicative turn of mind , began imparting the contents to the fishermen as he went on . 
-- Ah , here 's something better -- a splendid match between Kent and England , Brown ! 
Tom , intent on a fish which had risen at him twice , answered only with a grunt . 
`` Just my luck , '' grumbled the inquirer , jerking his flies off the water , and throwing again with a heavy sullen splash , and frightening Tom 's fish . 
we ai n't fishing for grampuses , '' shouted Tom across the stream . 
`` Hullo , Brown ! 
Tom 's hand stopped half-way in his cast , and his line and flies went all tangling round and round his rod ; you might have knocked him over with a feather . 
Neither of his companions took any notice of him luckily ; and with a violent effort he set to work mechanically to disentangle his line . 
He felt completely carried off his moral and intellectual legs , as if he had lost his standing-point in the invisible world . 
Besides which , the deep loving loyalty which he felt for his old leader made the shock intensely painful . 
It was the first great wrench of his life , the first gap which the angel Death had made in his circle , and he felt numbed , and beaten down , and spiritless . 
I believe it was good for him and for many others in like case ; who had to learn by that loss , that the soul of man can not stand or lean upon any human prop , however strong , and wise , and good ; but , that He upon whom alone it can stand and lean will knock away all such props in His own wise and merciful way , until there is no ground or stay left but Himself , the Rock of Ages , upon whom alone a sure foundation for every sould of man is laid . 
-- Hullo , Brown ! 
said Tom , turning over the leaves , his hands trembling , and his eyes swimming , so that he could not read . 
said his friend , jumping up and looking over his shoulder . 
`` That -- about Arnold , '' said Tom . 
`` Oh here , '' said the other , putting his finger on the paragraph . 
Tom read it over and over again ; there could be no mistake of identity , though the account was short enough . 
`` Thank you , '' said he at last , dropping the paper , `` I shall go for a walk : do n't you and Herbert wait supper for me . '' 
And away he strode , up over the moor at the back of the house , to be alone , and master his grief if possible . 
His friend looked after him , sympathizing and wondering , and knocking the ashes out of his pipe , walked over to Herbert . 
`` I 'm afraid that confounded newspaper has spoiled Brown 's fun for this trip . '' 
`` How odd that he should be so fond of his old master , '' said Herbert . 
The two however , notwithstanding Tom 's prohibition , waited supper for him , and had everything ready when he came back some half-an-hour afterwards . 
But he could not join in their cheerful talk , and the party was soon silent , notwithstanding the efforts of all three . 
One thing only had Tom resolved , and that was that he could n't stay in Scotland any longer ; he felt an irresistible longing to get to Rugby , and then home , and soon broke it to the others , who had too much tact to oppose . 
So by daylight the next morning he was marching through Rosshire , and in the evening hit the Caledonian canal , took the next steamer , and travelled as fast as boat and railway could carry him to the Rugby station . 
As he walked up to the town he felt shy and afraid of being seen , and took the back streets ; why , he did n't know , but he followed his instinct . 
At the School-gates he made a dead pause ; there was not a soul in the quadrangle -- all was lonely , and silent , and sad . 
So with another effort he strode through the quadrangle , and into the School-house offices . 
He found the little matron in her room in deep mourning ; shook her hand , tried to talk , and moved nervously about : she was evidently thinking of the same subject as he , but he could n't begin talking . 
said he at last , getting desperate . 
`` No thank you , '' said he , and strode off again to find the old Verger , who was sitting in his little den as of old , puzzling over hieroglyphics . 
He looked up through his spectacles , as Tom seized his hand and wrung it . 
you 've heard all about it , sir , I see , '' said he . 
Tom nodded , and then sat down on the shoe-board , while the old man told his tale , and wiped his spectacles , and fairly flowed over with quaint , homely , honest sorrow . 
By the time he had done Tom felt much better . 
said he at last . 
Tom nodded , and the bunch of keys were handed to him , with an injunction to be sure and lock the door after him , and bring them back before eight o'clock . 
The longing which had been upon him and driven him thus far , like the gad-fly in the Greek legends , giving him no rest in mind or body , seemed all of a sudden not to be satisfied , but to shrivel up , and pall . 
It 's no use , '' he thought , and threw himself at full length on the turf , and looked vaguely and listlessly at all the well-known objects . 
