`` But where is Sybrandt ? '' 
Sybrandt appeared not that night , and nothing more was said on the subject . 
Sybrandt Westbrookwas the only son of a distant female kinswoman of the Vancour family ; once , it was supposed , a great favourite of Mr. Dennis , who had been suspected of something more than a mere liking to the lady . 
This worthy divine , by desire of Mr. Dennis Vancour , took the entire charge of Sybrandt , at the age of seven years , and made a great scholar of him at nineteen . 
The person and aspect of Sybrandt were eminently handsome ; but his manners and address deplorably rustic and ungainly . 
Sybrandt had seen but little of his cousin Catalina , as their relationship was denominated , previous to her being sent to the boarding-school ; and less of her from that time . 
True , the young lady spent her vacations at home , but Sybrandt was either too hard at his studies , or too bashful to be much in her company . 
When this happened , he was pretty certain to be more than commonly stupid and embarrassed , so that Catalina had long set him down as little better than a sleepy country bumpkin of the first pretensions . 
Mr. Dennis Vancour was somewhat indignant at the ignominious retreat of Sybrandt , to whom he delivered a Dutch lecture at their next interview , on his sheepishness . 
On the part of Sybrandt it was shy and embarrassed , a mixture of pride and timidity ; on that of Catalina , sprightly and good-humoured , with a sly expression of slighting superiority , which to one of his quick feelings was calculated to increase his embarrassment , and make him appear still more awkward and stupid . 
Poor Sybrandt wished himself a thousand miles away . 
By the time dinner was served , his head felt like a great bag of wool , and his heart ached with an oppressive load of imaginary contempt and ridicule , which he thought he saw in the eyes of every one , more especially those of Catalina . 
Sybrandt tried again , but his voice died away in murmurs . 
roared he in a voice that made Sybrandt quake . 
The glasses were filled , but unfortunately Ariel , who was none of the smallest , sat directly between the young people and intercepted Sybrandt 's view of his cousin . 
When Sybrandt leaned forward to catch the lady 's eye , Ariel did the like , from an inherent sympathy with motion , originating in his inveterate antipathy to sitting still ; and thus they continued bobbing backwards and forwards till Catalina could restrain herself no longer , and laughed outright . 
Habits and dispositions like those of Sybrandt never fail to take the laugh and the ridicule all to themselves , even when they are only parties concerned . 
cried Ariel , wiping his eyes , `` why , Sybrandt , one would think you mistook it for a dose of physic . '' 
In five minutes after Sybrandt 's departure from the mansion-house , every circumstance connected with his mortifications was entirely forgotten by all but himself . 
But the recollection continued to rankle in his mind for a long while afterward , rendering him , if possible , a thousand times more shy , apprehensive , and sensitive than before . 
He never entered the old mansion that the scene of the dinner-table did not present itself with accumulated circumstances of mortification , paralyzing his gayety , oppressing his understanding , and giving to his actions a degree of awkward restraint that made his company painful as well as irksome to Catalina . 
It was indeed but seldom that he could be induced to seek her society , though she was ever the companion of his solitude ; the theme of a thousand airy visions of the future , which he indulged without the remotest idea , or even wish to realize . 
Sybrandt was an example of these truths . 
His principles were all good , and he practised no vices . 
Yet neither his talents nor his virtues were ever brought into exercise in a communion with his fellow-beings , because his pride , timidity , and sensitiveness drove him continually from society , to nourish the perpetual contemplation of self , by pondering on the ridicule and contempt which was ever present to his imagination . 
Thus all his acquirements and all his good qualities lay dormant , amid the violent action of feelings and considerations that were exclusively selfish . 
It remained to be seen what such a being might or would become when placed in conflict with his fellows , under the incitements and temptations of the world . 
She sometimes , in the gayety of her heart , sported with the feelings of poor Sybrandt , and rallied his shyness , unconscious of the pangs she inflicted upon his apprehensive self-love , and without noticing the dew of agony that gathered upon his forehead , as she playfully reproached him with being afraid of the young ladies . 
Catalina was resolved that Sybrandt should accompany the party ; not that she admired her shy and awkward cousin , or valued his society : but , I know not how it is , there is a wayward wilfulness in woman which , being common to all past times , is probably a gift of nature . 
Had Sybrandt sought her society , or discovered a disposition to be attentive , Catalina would have probably been tired to death of him in a little while , and affronted the youth downright . 
But he kept at a distance ; he avoided her whenever he could ; he sometimes excited her curiosity and sometimes her anger , by his lonely habits , and total neglect -- in short , he was not to be had at all times , or at any time , and was , therefore , in spite of himself , an object of consequence to his cousin . 
Ariel , who knew some of the haunts of Sybrandt , took his gun , and went , as he said , to hunt this strange animal . 
It was here that Sybrandt was often found , deep in the reveries of a wandering mind , seeking some steady rational object of pursuit , and floating clumsily about without purpose , like a bark away from its anchor . 
His mind was a perfect chaos , wanting the powerful stimulus of some master-passion , some great pursuit to arrange its intellectual forces , and marshal them to usefulness if not to deeds of noble daring . 
`` D -- n it , '' quoth Ariel , and scampered after , following them with his eye , till he unfortunately plumped into a ditch , where he got most gloriously garnished with a coat-of-mail , and was fain to make the best of his way home , leaving the pigeons to their fate and Sybrandt to his solitude . 
`` Well , uncle , '' said Catalina , when she saw him , `` did you see the white savage ? '' 
I thought you went in search of Sybrandt ? '' 
He proceeded on , therefore , and found Sybrandt at home . 
He had been considering all the morning whether he should go over and see his pretty cousin , and had just wrought himself up to the feat , when Ariel arrived with his message , which threw him into great perplexity . 
In going to see her of his own accord , and alone , he had privately come to an understanding with himself , that if his heart failed him by the way he could turn back again , and nobody would be the wiser . 
`` Yes , but you never hit the mark , uncle , '' said Sybrandt , smiling . 
If so , thou wilt be able to enter into the agonies of Sybrandt , as he stood perspiring under the consciousness that he cut rather a ridiculous figure . 
It was thus with Sybrandt . 
At once a hundred daggers buried their points in the bosom of his self-love . 
His apprehensive pride conjured up spectre after spectre , grinning and pointing their fingers at him in bitter or playful scorn ; or whispering in his ringing ear , that his cousin had sent for him to make sport with his infirmity . 
His mind lost its poise , and his faculties became suspended , as he stood , in awkward embarrassment , the image of stupid insensibility at the moment his heart and brain were pregnant with feelings which , could he have rallied the confidence to utter , would have astounded his uncle , and waked in the kind bosom of Catalina respect and commiseration . 
As it was , she considered him a proud , stupid , conceited bookworm , whose neglect of her society and marked avoidance arose from indifference to her person and contempt for her understanding . 
From the moment she entertained this conviction , he became an object of consequence in her eyes , and she resolved either to overcome this dislike or indifference , or revenge the injured dignity of womanhood , by worrying his pride and laughing at his airs of superiority . 
Sybrandt stood twirling his hat , immersed in a chaos of conflicting feelings that took away all presence of mind , when Ariel slapped him on the shoulder , in his good-humoured boisterous way , and roared out , in a voice that caused the young man to drop his hat on the floor , -- `` Zounds ! 
This allusion to the `` young couple '' affronted Catalina , and made poor Sybrandt feel more sheepish than ever . 
`` Indeed -- I -- I could not imagine -- I was surprised -- I -- '' and here his tongue cleaved to the roof of his mouth . 
Sybrandt was a little nettled at this , and anger soon overcomes timidity . 
and the lady made him a low obeisance . 
Sybrandt 's face and heart glowed with a feeling of insult . 
She can not know my feelings , nor enter into the mortifications I suffer daily , from the consciousness that I -- that I -- '' and here his proud shy spirit shrunk from disclosing the wayward mysteries of his feelings and deportment . 
He remained silent and embarrassed ; yet his face glowed with an expression , and his eye kindled with a fire , Catalina had never seen lighted there before . 
She was delighted to discover that he had feelings which it was in her power to awaken . 
It was a proof that he did not think her altogether beneath his notice . 
At one moment Sybrandt determined to give his cousin an analysis of his feelings ; the next he shrunk from the disclosure ; and the conflict of opposing impulses threw his mind into such a confusion , that for the soul of him he could not utter a connected sentence . 
Sybrandt could have knocked his head against a stone wall . 
He buried himself in the woody solitudes , where his mortified pride and keen apprehensive sensibility dwelt with exaggerated agony , on the ridiculous figure he had made in this interview , the laugh of Ariel , and the cutting ridicule of his cousin . 
Thenext morning Ariel came over , and found Sybrandt half-willing , half-afraid to accompany the party to the island , of which he was to be the commander-in-chief . 
Our little party consisted of Master-commandant Ariel , chief manager , factotum , & c. , as busy as a bee , as noisy as a caty-did , and as merry as a cricket ; Catalina , Sybrandt , and some half a score of the beaux and belles of Albany , who had come to the mansion-house bright and early in the morning , all dressed in neat and simple attire , befitting a ramble among the wild roses and clambering vines of the happy island . 
Under the skilful guidance of the active , indefatigable Ariel , the little party arrived at the scene of their anticipated pleasures , all gay and happy , save our friend Sybrandt , who , from the moment he joined the group , felt the spell of the demon besetting him sorely . 
His gayety was repressed , his faculties benumbed , and his youthful vigour changed to a leaden inertness by that habitual shyness and awkwardness the very consciousness of which prevented all efforts to shake it off . 
He was always either behind or before the party , and generally too far from it to hear what was said . 
They had lived in the world at Albany , mixed in its business , and dissipated their self-love in the pursuit of various objects , while poor Sybrandt had passed his youth in nursing the offspring of solitude -- sensibility , pride , and selfishness . 
When they came to the river-side , where lay the little boat which was to take them to the island , Sybrandt had sworn to himself that he would offer his hand to Catalina to assist her in embarking . 
But he was so long before he could screw himself up to the direful feat , that one of the Albany lads , more gallant as well as alert , was beforehand with him . 
So was it with master Sybrandt , who , having expended his powder in a flash of the pan , sunk only the lower for the exertion he had made . 
Catalina having carried her point in making Sybrandt one of the party , was rather in a better humour with him than usual . 
Sybrandt by degrees already felt like a musical instrument , in better tune for being played upon , and two or three times caught himself actually enjoying the scene and the festivity of his companions . 
The bent of Sybrandt 's mind had , however , been too long and too rigid to be relaxed all at once . 
I pity the most exalted of all created beings who can not feel the inspiration of the balmy air , the music and the smiles of nature ; for he can have neither sensibility nor imagination . 
It was not so with Sybrandt ; though apparently a most unpromising pupil for the school of romance , there were , if we mistake not , certain springs of action and certain latent fires hidden and buried in his head and heart , which only required to be touched or lighted to make him a far other being than he seemed just now . 
Catalina listened with astonishment to the animated statue ; and as she looked him in the face while pouring forth the treasures of his mind , and saw the divinity that sparkled in his eyes , she once or twice detected herself in thinking Sybrandt almost as handsome as an aid-de-camp . 
`` Sybrandt , '' at length said Catalina , `` why do n't you talk so every day ? '' 
Sybrandt gained a position whence he could overlook the island barrier , and came back running to announce that a thunderstorm was coming on rapidly -- so rapidly that it would be impossible to cross the river and gain the nearest house in time to escape its fury . 
Suddenly an idea struck Sybrandt , which was instantly adopted and put into execution . 
It was observed that Sybrandt placed himself nearest that end of the boat under which Catalina was sheltered , and that he was particular in the disposition of the grass and branches in that quarter . 
Ever since the coming of the storm Sybrandt had seemed a new being , animated by a newly-awakened soul . 
The excitement of the scene had by degrees caused him to forget his shyness ; and now the presence of danger and the necessity of exertion roused into action those qualities which neither himself nor others were conscious he possessed . 
He who had trembled at the idea of being introduced into a drawing-room , and shrunk from the encounter of a smiling female eye , now stood erect in the composure of unawed manhood , with a steady hand and a steady eye , guiding the little skiff through roaring whirlpools and angry currents , furiously conflicting with each other , almost as skilfully as a veteran Mississippi boatman . 
Less strong , and less inured to the sports and perils of rural life , she became insensible the moment the accident occurred , and would have quickly perished , had not Sybrandt swam into the edge of the turbulent whirlpool where she was floating , and brought her safely to the land . 
The remembrance of this scene , and of the conduct of Sybrandt , not only before but during the storm , and in the hour of her extreme peril , was often afterward called to mind by Catalina , and not unfrequently checked her inclination to laugh sometimes , and sometimes to be downright angry with her sheepish , awkward cousin . 
Suffice it to say , that the good parents received their only child as one a second time bestowed upon them by the bounty of Heaven , and that they were full of gratitude to Sybrandt , -- whose inspiration seemed now departed from him . 
The crisis that awakened his sleeping energies having passed away , his long-cherished habits again beset him ; instead of expressing his joy at having been instrumental in preserving Catalina , and showing his sensibility to the parents ' gratitude , he became embarrassed , silent , awkward , stultified -- and finally vanished away no one knew whither . 
Itwas many days before Catalina again saw master Sybrandt , who , sooth to say , shrunk from the usual consequences of a good deed , as skittishly as some worthies do from those of a bad one . 
When Sybrandt at last overcame his old enemy , and ventured into what to him was worse than the jaws of a hungry lion , Catalina , affronted at his long absence , under these particular circumstances , which seemed to indicate that he considered the saving of her life a matter of no sort of consequence , treated him with considerable disdain . 
Sybrandt , who could digest twenty folios of metaphysics easier than comprehend the mind of a woman , and who never dreamed that his absence or presence was noticed by any human being in the shape of a young female , became only the more proud , shy , embarrassed , and stupid at this reception . 
He thought to a certainty his cousin despised him , and he was one of those that never court favour where they expect contempt . 
Among those who watched the progress of this intimacy with bitterness of heart , was Sybrandt Westbrook . 
The selfishness engendered by solitude and abstraction , inclined him naturally to jealousy of a most perverse and ridiculous kind . 
He persuaded himself that he neither had , or could ever have , any pretensions to Catalina ; nay , he would have shrunk with shivering horror at the suspicion that she ever suspected that his solitary hours and silent reveries were full of her , and only her ! 
Yet he could not endure the remotest apprehension , much less the sight , of any , the slightest marks of preference to another . 
When in her society , he kept aloof , and left her entirely to the attentions of other men ; yet these very attentions cut him to the soul , and the recollection of them poisoned his solitary days and sleepless nights . 
Catalina , notwithstanding the perverse behaviour of Sybrandt , had a sort of intuitive perception , which is common to women , and stands them in the stead of wisdom and philosophy , that he had a strange sort of abstract preference for her . 
`` Sybrandt , '' said Madam Vancour , with the good-natured intention of rousing him from the chaos of stupidity in which he had remained bewildered for a long time , -- `` Sybrandt , pray come and assist us in finding out what this means . '' 
He contented himself with quietly handing the book to Sybrandt , saying he must acknowledge his ignorance of the passage , which , by-the-way , he had not been able to distinguish , from the failure of his eyes . 
But this was a secret he kept to himself , preferring rather to be thought ignorant than blind . 
The whole company gave him credit for affecting to be unable to see merely to disguise his not being able to interpret the passage , which , as Sybrandt announced , was nothing more than an English proverb , printed in Greek characters , as we have seen practised , in the way of a grave quiz , in some of the old specimens of printing . 
This little incident raised Sybrandt in the scale of comparison with the colonel , especially in the estimation of Catalina , who inherited from her mother that decent respect for useful acquirements , which is one of the best evidences of good sense . 
The colonel 's spirits seemed to flag not a little after the adventure of the book , while those of poor Sybrandt gained a corresponding elevation ; for it is the characteristic of such sensitive beings as he to be about as unreasonably inflated as they are unreasonably mortified by trifles which to others seem perfectly insignificant . 
-- worried poor Sybrandt out of the little self-possession he had been able to collect together , by recollecting every thing the youth wished to be forgotten ; shouted , laughed , and finally talked himself fast asleep in the old high-backed , well-stuffed chair , which with its fellows had been heirlooms in the family for almost a century . 
The worthy Dominie Stettinius was heart-struck the next day , when he learned that the party had prolonged its sober revels until the clock actually struck the half-hour between eleven and the very witching time of midnight . 
A little incident , apparently of no consequence , which occurred this evening had a material , nay , a controlling , influence on the future life of Sybrandt Westbrook . 
As the party separated for the night the gallant colonel besought Catalina to bestow on him a little bunch of violets she wore in her bosom . 
In the gayety of her heart , or perhaps influenced by that little mischievous imp , demon , or godhead who is for ever found nestling in woman 's heart , she bestowed the violets on Sydenham , with a most gracious and seducing smile , wishing him at the same time `` pleasant dreams . '' 
The gift , the smile , and the wish were each one a dagger of ice planted in the bosom of Sybrandt , poisoning his rest and agonizing his feelings . 
Thelife of jealousy , mortification , and self-reproach he had led almost ever since the return of Catalina from the boarding school gradually undermined the natural strength and vigour of Sybrandt 's intellect , and produced that alternation of pride , anger , and self-reproach which is the parent of a thousand inconsistencies . 
It was thus with Sybrandt . 
The little incident of the violets put an end to the struggle which he had sustained for some months past , and his resolution was irrevocably taken . 
`` But I can not study now -- I '' -- and here Sybrandt faltered and was silent . 
`` Never fear me , uncle , '' -- and he clenched his fingers involuntarily , -- `` never fear me ! '' 
Mr. Dennis Vancour had never been equally communicative with Sybrandt before . 
From the moment Sybrandt formed the resolution , and commenced the preparations aforesaid , he seemed to be a new man . 
He had something to do , and something to suffer worthy of a man . 
In this state he was found by Ariel , who was highly out of humour at having had nothing to do in the equipment of Sybrandt . 
The interview became exceedingly painful to Sybrandt . 
He would have given the world to be out of the room , yet was riveted to the spot by that mysterious fascination which awkwardness and pride and sensibility exercise over the power of motion . 
He sat chained to his chair , by the withering spell of mortified pride and despised affection . 
At last , however , with a desperate effort , he arose and muttered his farewell . 
At that moment Catalina remembered that she owed her life to him , and that he was going whence he might never return . 
`` Sybrandt , '' said she , in a voice which these recollections had softened into kindness , `` what shall I give you to remember me by in the woods ? '' 
After a moment 's pause , she drew from her pocket , -- we beg our fashionable readers to bear in mind , that this was almost a hundred years ago , -- she drew from her pocket a golden coin -- we believe it was a Dutch ducat -- and continued , with a tone and look of saddened vivacity , `` Take this : you can make a hole in it , and tie it round your neck as a talisman against Indian witchcraft . 
Farewell , cousin Sybrandt , and remember -- that -- that Dominie Stettinius will regret your absence . '' 
Sybrandt took the piece of gold , but he could not say `` farewell '' for the soul of him . 
He thanked her , however , with a look so full of meaning and sensibility , that she remembered and wondered at it a long time afterward . 
Sybrandt made a hole in the ducat , and tying it with a riband , wore it from that moment next his heart . 
Earlynext morning , ere the tints of the bright morning reddened the eastern sky , or the birds had left their perches among the clustering foliage , all things being ready , Sybrandt launched his light canoe on the smooth mirror of the Hudson , and assisted by the dusky Charon , old Tjerck , paddled away upward , towards the sources of that majestic river . 
massa Sybrandt , '' said Tjerck , as he paused from plying his ceaseless paddle : `` hark ! 
I hear him . '' 
Sybrandt listened and could plainly distinguish the leaden plunge of the river gradually becoming more distinct as the canoe made its way up the stream , which now began to whirl about in boiling eddies , each crowned in its centre with a cap of snow-white foam . 
He was sitting with his party of four Indians besides himself under the shade of a clump of pines that nodded over the foaming torrent , when Sybrandt and Tjerck , suddenly and unexpectedly to themselves , came full upon them . 
`` Welcome , brother , '' said the chief to Sybrandt . 
said Tjerck , who had known him before . 
`` I no tink to see you here ; and I no glad neither , '' added he aside to himself . 
Sybrandt inquired for furs , and the chief asked what he had to exchange for them . 
Finding that Sybrandt had brought with him two or three kegs of that poison which has swept away the race of the red men , and seems almost on the eve of doing the same to the whites , Paskingoe became very earnest with him to go to the junction of the Hudson with the Sacondaga , where he said he had plenty of people who would exchange commodities with him . 
Tjerck shook his head , and Sybrandt paused . 
Men that are afraid should stay at home with their wives , '' added he contemptuously . 
Sybrandt thought of Catalina , and determined to go with the chief . 
The Indians assisted him in carrying his canoe and merchandise round the portages at Fort Edward and Glens Falls ; and though they cast many a longing look at the kegs of rum , throwing out many shrewd hints at the same time , they neither stole nor took any of it by violence . 
Paskingoe assured Sybrandt he would find them not far from the lodge , which , being unoccupied great part of the time , the Indians occasionally slept in when the weather was bad . 
If any idea of danger crossed the mind of Sybrandt , it was coupled with the conviction that if Paskingoe had any bad designs he could execute them just as well where he was as at the place where he wished him to go . 
He therefore consented to accompany him , notwithstanding all the eloquence of old Tjerck , who , by signs and looks , attempted to dissuade him . 
Accordingly , early the next morning , they embarked on the sluggish Sacondaga , the Indians in their canoe , and Sybrandt with his trusty squire in his , and paddled their way along the devious windings of the lazy solitary stream , that seemed a vast serpent asleep in the high grass that skirted its banks . 
Sybrandt felt his solitary situation , which became gradually more disagreeable from his seeing , or imagining he saw , certain looks of equivocal meaning pass between Paskingoe and his Indians . 
On one occasion , turning suddenly round , he observed the one-eyed chief shake his head in answer to an inquiring look of one of his companions , and point in the direction where , peering above the dead level of the meadow , stood the little rustic fishing-house . 
Gradually the Indians plied their paddles at quicker and quicker intervals , and so did Sybrandt and his squire , in order to keep pace with them . 
There was only time for Sybrandt to cover his merchandise carefully , ere it came in torrents on the wings of a wind that laid flat the rank high grass , and made the forest groan . 
The party , both Sybrandt , Tjerck , and the Indians , made the best of their way to the fishing-house , the door of which was opened without ceremony , there being no one in it , and no furniture requiring a guard . 
Paskingoe was moody , and Sybrandt , seeing no traces of the Indians he expected to meet at this spot , from time to time eyed him with looks of suspicion . 
He could not help believing his designs were at least questionable , nor disguise from himself that he was entirely at the mercy of the Indians . 
Sybrandt made no answer . 
`` The white man , '' continued Paskingoe , raising his voice , `` does not know what to say ; he is afraid to speak out . 
Sybrandt felt it was true ; he was completely in the power of the Indian . 
Hardly knowing what to say he continued silent . 
Paskingoe sat in moody silence smoking his pipe ; Sybrandt was occupied in no very pleasing reflections on his awkward situation ; and old Tjerck , from long experience of the Indian character , saw that mischief was at work in the breast of the one-eyed chief . 
Sybrandt had no disinclination to this proposal , and Tjerck was despatched with one of the Indians to bring in some provisions from the canoe . 
While they were gone the one-eye ordered his people to kindle a fire , which they did with some difficulty , and the room at length became illuminated with the red glare of the pine knots that hissed in the chimney . 
As the one-eye placed his blind side towards them , Tjerck dexterously handed Sybrandt a knife which he had concealed under his homespun linen frock , and which the young man as dexterously hid in his bosom . 
After finishing , the one-eye asked Sybrandt -- `` Has the white man any fire-water in his canoe ? '' 
`` I have , '' replied Sybrandt . 
`` It is very good , '' answered Sybrandt ; and another pause ensued . 
`` You dream almost equal to Sir William Johnson , '' replied Sybrandt , smiling . 
Paskingoe shook his head . 
`` No , no , '' said he , `` Sir William out-dreams me . 
Sybrandt felt the peculiar delicacy of his situation , thus buried alone in the depths of the wild solitudes of the Sacondaga . 
He knew the danger of declining , as well as complying with the wishes of Paskingoe . 
To refuse entirely would be to provoke his violence ; to give him a moderate portion of spirits would probably only render him more eager for more , and to afford the means of intoxication would be only the prelude to violence and murder . 
During these reflections , the anger and impatience of the whole party became so evident , that he at length determined , as the best alternative , to gratify them with a small portion , in the remote hope that they would be satisfied . 
He accordingly sent Tjerck for a bottle which he had laid aside to treat the old man now and then . 
As it mounted into their brains they became clamorous for more , and Sybrandt saw that his life would fall a sacrifice to refusing any longer . 
Their eyeballs glared , they danced , and sung , and flourished their tomahawks and scalping-knives over the head of Sybrandt , who stood in a corner , his right hand in his bosom grasping his knife , in momentary expectation that that deep and never-dying hatred the Indian cherishes for the white man would precipitate them into some act of violence against him . 
cried he , darting his eye of malignant fire upon Sybrandt ; `` What white man would dare do this , even if his limbs were not like those of a woman ? 
Then brandishing his tomahawk , and dancing , and whirling himself round , yelling at the same time in concert with his companions , he again went on : -- `` The white man can not stand before the Indian unless there is two to one . 
shouted the yelling fiends , as they brandished their weapons and came towards Sybrandt with foaming mouths and eyes darting fire . 
They therefore advanced warily upon Sybrandt , who stood as warily on the defence . 
They approached -- their knives and tomahawks were raised to strike , and he was just about to spring upon the one-eyed chief , when a loud , long war-whoop was heard apparently close under the window , quavering amid the pauses of the storm . 
Sybrandt thought of retreating ; but the single door was barred by the Indians , who stood for a few minutes expecting an attack from without . 
His example was followed by the others , and the renewed draught added fury to their mad , malignant passions . 
`` He has brought the Adirondocks upon us ; '' and the One-eye aimed a blow with his tomahawk that Sybrandt could not parry . 
He warded it from his head , but it fell on his left arm , and disabled it entirely . 
In dealing this blow , however , Paskingoe , being somewhat unsteady with the liquor he had drunk , stumbled forward , and met the weapon of Sybrandt , which entered his bosom . 
He fell upon the floor , and the rage of his party became still more intense . 
He then advanced towards Sybrandt , now become weak with the loss of blood , and courteously asked an explanation of the scene , which the young man briefly gave . 
Then observing that Sybrandt leaned against the wall , and was gradually sinking in his height , he asked , anxiously , `` Are you hurt , sir ? '' 
I feel no pain , but my left arm seems getting useless ; '' and overcome by weakness he sunk down upon the body of Paskingoe . 
The master passion of the dying Indian for a moment animated his waning strength . 
He grasped his knife between his feeble fingers , and raising his arm , unnoticed in the obscurity of the dark corner , struck a delirious random blow with the last expiring energy of despair . 
The stranger made no answer , but proceeded to examine into the situation of Sybrandt , who had fainted with loss of blood . 
He gave a key to one of his attendants , who descended into the cellar , in the wall of which was a secret recess where were kept a variety of articles necessary to the various privations and accidents incident to travelling or sojourning far from the haunts of men and the conveniences of civilized life . 
The stranger applied what was proper of these to the case of Sybrandt , who in a short time recovered from his swoon , and was accommodated with a mattress from the receptacle above mentioned . 
The stranger then having ascertained that Sybrandt was in a deep , exhausted sleep , directed all to be kept quiet , and carelessly throwing himself upon the floor , with his cheek supported on his hand , soon fell into a quiet repose , which was shared by all his companions , with the exception of one , who was directed to watch the slumbers of Sybrandt . 
So saying , he shook hands with Sybrandt , and departed , observing , `` You have no fever , I see . '' 
When they were left alone , Tjerck expressed an honest , heartfelt pleasure at the miraculous escape of his young master . 
`` I did all I could for young massa , '' said he . 
`` Yes , you ran away , '' said Sybrandt , who felt not a little indignant at his desertion . 
cried Tjerck , with uncontrollable self-complacency , and laughing with all his might ; `` old nigger make it . '' 
Sybrandt saw the whole plan , and thanked Tjerck for the prompt diversion he made in his favour , which , by giving time for the coming of the stranger , undoubtedly saved his life . 
He then gradually died away into the slumber of weakness , while his black guardian angel sat and watched him with the stillness of a dead calm in the wilderness . 
His repose was long and deep , and he awoke refreshed and hungry . 
The stranger and his party returned from their hunt with plenty of game , and Sybrandt was allowed to partake sparingly of the meal which was prepared . 
He had now leisure to contemplate the person to whom he owed his rescue from the drunken ferocity of the One-eye and his party . 
He was apparently about fifty years of age , with a form of the largest and most lofty proportions , a deep ruddy , yet bronzed complexion , and a countenance of a most singular combination of expression . 
His deportment , while it was easy and courteous to all , betrayed a careless superiority , which both the Indians and white men seemed tacitly to acknowledge , obeying implicitly every word he uttered , every motion of his hand , and every glance of his eye . 
His manner and mode of expressing himself sufficiently indicated that he had sat at good men 's feasts and been where bells had tolled to church , at the same time that they were totally distinct from those of the gentlemen Sybrandt had seen at the house of his uncle . 
His motions exhibited the ease , facility , and unembarrassed vigour of an Indian , and there was a singular force , brevity , and richness in his phraseology that partook somewhat of the Indian manner of expression . 
He wore a hunting dress equally partaking in the modes of savage and civilized man , and indeed altogether exhibited a singular confusion of the peculiarities of the two races . 
His deportment towards Sybrandt was kind , at the same time that his attentions were rather indifferent than very particular . 
He took upon himself the direction of our hero , his merchandise , and affairs , without consulting or seeming to think it worth while to consult him . 
`` To-morrow , at sunrise , '' said he , `` we shall set out for home . 
Then turning to his people , `` Rest , and be ready by break of day . '' 
In a few minutes all was quiet , though , with the exception of Sybrandt , the floor was their bed , and their pillow a knapsaek , a log , or perchance a stone . 
In the dawn of the morning they set forth in a direction nearly southwest , through a forest of pines , beeches , and maples , such as nature produces but once on the same soil , by the exertion of her unimpaired , youthful energies . 
The litter of boughs in which Sybrandt was placed was carried alternately by the followers of the stranger , and certainly a more easy mode of conveyance was never devised for an invalid . 
It was by frequent instances of this sort that the mystery of his unbounded sway over his people was explained to Sybrandt . 
He welcomed Sybrandt to his house -- a large square edifice of hewn pines , the interstices filled with mortar , -- with that frank , careless hospitality characteristic of every thing he said and did , and presented him to his wife and children ; the former an Indian woman , the latter an evident mixture of wild and tame , the perfect images of nature in her finest proportions . 
Sybrandt remained at the house of the stranger some weeks ere he entirely recovered from the effects of his wound ; and after his recovery , in truth , he was in no haste to go away . 
So come , Westbrook , 't is a fine day for a hunt ; and you are well enough to join in it . '' 
He then whistled his dogs , who came wagging their tails , as much delighted as their master -- furnished Sybrandt with a gun , and his eldest son , a boy about ten years old , with another , and after making all necessary preparations , called his wife , an agreeable-looking Indian woman , with a voice as soft as a flute , and an eye like an antelope . 
-- She is an Algonquin , '' said he to Sybrandt , `` and her name translated into English is ` love . ' 
-- I give my boys the lead , '' said he , addressing Sybrandt , `` whenever it can be done with safety . 
Sybrandt chose this alternative , being somewhat tired ; and the stranger and his boy departed with the dogs , to make the tour of the lake , which seemed some half a dozen miles in circumference . 
Influenced by the scene before him , which threw a charming quiet and repose over his whole soul , Sybrandt , instead of engaging in the sport of fishing , continued to contemplate the unadorned , unsullied beauties of nature in this her wild , secluded paradise . 
Life itself seemed extinct , except in the beating of Sybrandt 's pulses , and the myriads of little fish that sported in the transparent waters , and turned their silvery sides ever and anon to the bright beams of the god of day . 
Sybrandt little thought , at that moment , that a few years , a single generation would scarcely pass away , before this region of the dead , or rather of those who never had an existence , would spring , as if by magic , into life and animation ; that its silence would pass away before the babbling tongues of all ages , and almost all countries ; that languages and men would congregate within these now melancholy woods , that never met before in any spot of all the earth ; and that the Promethean touch of courage , enterprise , activity , energy , and perseverance would here perform , in almost less than no time , the far-famed ancient miracle of animating the lifeless clod into motion and intelligence . 
So thought not Sybrandt . 
`` Nothing , '' said Sybrandt , colouring a little . 
Nobody cares about seeing me , thought Sybrandt . 
`` I had rather hear you talk , '' said Sybrandt . 
Looking round and perceiving the Indian wife was absent on her domestic duties , he added , `` May I inquire if you do n't find your time hang heavy on your hands sometimes , for want of the society you have been accustomed to ? '' 
Besides this , '' added he , smiling , `` I exercise dominion over men ; I influence at least , if not direct , the affairs of an invisible people , as it were , hid in these woods ; and this gives sufficient occupation to my mind . 
`` You are no admirer of the animal , it seems , in either of its forms , '' replied Sybrandt . 
said Sybrandt . 
Thepreceding conversation was interrupted by a slight tap at the door , which was straightway opened , and , to the no small dismay of Sybrandt , the party of Indians whose chief had fallen on his dagger and died at the fishing-house , headed by a new chief , silently entered the room in which they were sitting . 
They obeyed , and remained without speaking , while they eyed Sybrandt with glances of keen malignant meaning . 
The stranger started , and turning aside to Sybrandt , said , `` How unthinking I have been ! 
This colloquy was carried on in the Mohawk tongue , but Sybrandt easily comprehended its object , and it may be supposed his feelings were by no means enviable . 
He remained perfectly passive , however , justly conceiving his interference would only produce additional irritation in the minds of the Indians . 
An interesting discussion ensued between Sybrandt and the stranger , in which the latter proposed to aid his escape that night , by furnishing him with a guide and a canoe , and detaining the Indians in the room where they were sleeping till he was far enough not to be overtaken . 
said Sybrandt ; `` the savages will never forgive you . 
It may be supposed Sybrandt did not sleep very sweetly that night , though he apprehended no danger to his slumbers , -- it was the morrow that he feared : and when the morrow came he rose early , and descended into the room they had occupied the night before . 
Round the room were displayed various articles most irresistible to the Indian fancy , and which they eyed with looks of eager longing , interrupted only for a moment by a glance of malignant meaning at Sybrandt as he entered . 
The bargain was consummated ; the Indians departed with their finery , and Sybrandt was free . 
An arrow from some unseen bow at the instant whizzed past his ear , and put a stop to his exultation . 
He however preserved the arrow all his life afterward , making it the text of a most excellent tale , which was as little like that we have just related as the description of most landscapes is to the original . 
The stranger explained to Sybrandt the preceding colloquy , which had passed in the Mohawk language ; and our hero insisted upon repaying him the price of his liberty . 
In short , Sybrandt could not help observing , that while there appeared to be no restraint , there was , at the same time , a perfect decorum , an unstudied decency , which answered all the ends of the most fashionable fastidiousness . 
The image of war , most especially in this empire of savages and beasts of prey -- this course of life gradually awakened the sleeping energies of Sybrandt 's nature , that had been so long dozing under the scholastic rubbish of the good Dominie Stettinius , of whose hapless fate he as yet remained ignorant . 
He acquired an active vigour of body , together with a quickness of perception and keen attention to what was passing before him , that by degrees encroached deeply on his habit of indolent abstraction . 
He caught from the stranger something of his fearless , independent carriage , lofty bearing , and impatience of idleness or inaction . 
In short , he acquired a confidence in himself , a self-possession , and self-respect , such as he had never felt before , and which freed him from the leaden fetters of that awkward restraint which had hitherto been the bane of his life . 
One stormy day , when the wind blew such a gale as made it dangerous to pursue their daily sport , the stranger found Sybrandt buried in the confused rubbish of what is known among the simple ones as a brown study , but which among the better sort is dignified with the more lofty epithet of abstraction . 
`` Westbrook , '' said he , with his usual brief frankness , `` the time we have spent together , and the circumstances under which we met , ought to have made us friends by this time . 
Sybrandt was actually thinking of home , but not with that strange , inexplicable feeling which sickens us of a paradise , and makes us turn with tears of bitter longing to the barren sands or arid mountains consecrated to memory under the name of home . 
He had but few , very few pleasurable recollections stored there , and these were buried under a thousand self-inflicted pangs of self-love and mortification . 
He replied to the stranger in a tone of bitter depression : `` I was , indeed , thinking of home ; but I have no wish to go there just now . '' 
Sybrandt paused , and a few moments of rapid retrospection convinced him how difficult it was to answer this simple question . 
`` I do n't know , '' at length he said ; `` sometimes I think my own , sometimes the fault of others . '' 
`` Westbrook , '' said the stranger , kindly , `` did you ever hear the story of the king who was playing at tennis in the midst of his courtiers ? '' 
Strange as it may appear , Sybrandt had never viewed the matter in this light before , nor asked himself the question of who was to blame for the anguish of mind which , in truth , he had wilfully inflicted on himself . 
Thus solicited , Sybrandt at length overcame his shyness , and gave the detail of his causeless miseries . 
As he went on , the stranger sometimes smiled , and at others shook his head . 
`` Strange , '' said he , at length , when the young man had concluded his singular confession , `` strange that a man should pass his whole life in coining false miseries , which have no being except in his wayward imagination ! 
The face and forehead of Sybrandt gradually kindled with alternate flushes of pride and shame , as the stranger proceeded . 
The word coward grated harshly on Sybrandt 's ear , and was appropriated at once to himself by that mental process through which he was accustomed to distil every thing into gall and wormwood . 
Sybrandt could stand it no longer . 
He started from his seat , without feeling one spark of awkwardness or timidity in his whole composition . 
Sybrandt surveyed him leisurely from top to toe , with an eye of unflinching defiance . 
He was proceeding to quit the house immediately , when he was arrested by a hearty laugh from the stranger . 
But why , '' added he , after a pause , `` why not act and speak at all times , and every where , with the same manly , free spirit you have just displayed ? 
Sybrandt grasped the hand of Sir William in silence , and the incident of that day exercised an influence over his future fortunes greater , perhaps , than all the precepts of the worthy Dominie Stettinius or the illustrious examples of classic lore . 
Add to this , he contrived every day to draw Sybrandt out , to make him aware of his own resources of intellect and knowledge , and animate his consciousness by giving him the post of honour , that is to say fatigue and danger , in all their forest adventures . 
He tried hard to make a man of him , for he saw that Sybrandt was likely to repay the trouble of the lessons he received . 
Sybrandt wondered to see the majestic grace and self-possession , mingled with respectful courtesy , exhibited by these untutored savages . 
They presented an example of manly independence in deportment and language , from which he derived a lesson for his own future conduct . 
Sybrandt learned some lessons in relation to manner and deportment from the Kings of the woods , that he could hardly have acquired even from a first-rate dancing-master . 
`` Do not doubt it , '' said Sybrandt , `` if you do not come to me , I will one day , if I live , come to you . 
Sybrandt coloured , and felt some of his old feelings crawling over him ; but he repressed them by a mighty effort , and replied with assumed ease : `` I promise to ask you to my wedding , but my funeral will probably come first , and I will bid you to that . '' 
Then assuming an earnest solemnity , he went on , `` Westbrook , remember , now that you are going among old scenes and old associations , that you guard against a return of old feelings , weaknesses , and self-delusions . 
Now God be with you , Sybrandt , and so farewell ! '' 
Theyparted each with regret , and as Sybrandt proceeded on his journey , he tried to persuade himself he was all , on might be all , Sir William had described . 
The little party , consisting of Sybrandt , old Tjerck , and the courier , proceeded to the banks of the Mohawk river , where they embarked in a canoe for Schenectady , then the frontier town of all the western settlements of this goodly State , of which it now constitutes one of the antiquities . 
As Sybrandt approached nearer towards home , he began to feel in anticipation certain decided symptoms of his old disease . 
As they approached the sober and venerable mansion-house , and saw at a distance its old gray walls , half-hid by towering elms , with chimneys pointing to the skies , Sybrandt actually trembled with conflicting emotions . 
Had it been possible , he would have passed on to the abode of his benefactor without stopping . 
But his only road lay directly before the mansion-house , and to pass it would be both absurd and disrespectful . 
The scene was lovely and quiet beyond description , and something had carried the thoughts of Catalina to the absence of Sybrandt . 
`` I wonder , '' said she , at length , `` what has become or cousin Sybrandt ? 
Is it not time that he should be home ? 
and is it not strange no one has heard of him , uncle ? '' 
exclaimed Catalina , lifting up her hands , and clasping them together ; `` God forbid my dear cousin Sybrandt should come to any harm ! '' 
quoth Ariel , `` what would the colonel say if he heard this ? 
-- dear cousin Sybrandt ! '' 
`` He has no right to say any thing , and if he did I would not care . 
Sybrandt had distinguished a female on the piazza as he approached , and a thrill of mingled pleasure and apprehension came over him . 
He had rode at such a slow , lingering pace , that old Tjerck muttered to himself , `` Icod , if young massa been hunting a bear , he make more hurry dan to see Miss Catalina ! '' 
Sybrandt , after receiving , with all his old awkwardness and constraint , the kind congratulations of the rest of the family , made some miserable mumbling attempts at an excuse for going to see his benefactor , and departed with a heart bursting with its disappointed dreams , that had been cherished in secret , and a mind wounded by the consciousness of folly , weakness , and inconsistency . 
`` You do n't seem glad to get home again , '' said the good Dennis , observing that Sybrandt was silent and abstracted ; `` but I suppose you are tired and sleepy . 
Sybrandt retired to bed , but not to that balmy rest which a tried body and a quiet mind brings with it evermore . 
He lay awake , thinking over the past , and blaming his own wayward follies . 
He recalled to mind the lessons and the example of Sir William , and settled the matter a little before daylight , that he would cast off the chains of the foul fiend that seemed waiting to resume her empire the moment of his return , and be what he was every where else but to the woman he most wished to please . 
Accordingly , after breakfast , they rode over to the mansion-house , where Sybrandt behaved himself better , and was received more to his liking , than the night before ; for Catalina had schooled herself , and softened herself too , by recollecting she had treated him thus unkindly on the anniversary of the day he had saved her from drowning . 
Catalina inquired the cause of his long absence , and even condescended to say she felt great uneasiness lest he should have been murdered , or taken captive by the hostile Indians and carried into Canada . 
This sentiment , kindly and unaffectedly uttered , warmed the heart of Sybrandt into a degree of confidence , and he related the history of his trading voyage with a truth and simplicity which gave it additional interest . 
The moment she heard the history of the adventure of the fishing-house , and the escape from the deputation of the Mohawk chiefs , Sybrandt gained a new interest in her eyes , by being thus associated with danger and death . 
Under the influence of these feelings , she treated him with a gentle and frank kindness , which placed him on good terms with himself , and gave an ease and freedom to his deportment that made Catalina one day observe , with a smile , `` that he had certainly met with a dancing-master in the woods . '' 
asked Sybrandt , with no small trepidation , after finishing his adventures . 
Sybrandt was pleased with the information , but he did not like the blush . 
His old enemies played about him for a moment , but he whipped them away , and compelled himself to ask other questions , which by degrees led to a detail of all that had happened in his absence . 
He left a letter with his blessing and advice to Sybrandt , accompanied by a fine folio copy of the works of Hugo Grotius , in token of his affectionate remembrance . 
Dinner passed off pleasantly , and Sybrandt was delighted to find that he drank wine with Catalina without its going down the wrong way ; nay , that he could actually cut up a pig when everybody was looking at him , without falling into an agony . 
Sybrandt gradually became inspired by the scene and the occasion ; and unlocking , by involuntary degrees , the stores of his mind , and giving wings to the dormant vigour of his imagination , delighted , instructed , and almost astonished Catalina with the inspirations of his new-born intellect . 
When he came up all he could say was to beg Sybrandt to speed to the house , for Hans Pipe , the Indian , was there very drunk . 
Accordingly Sybrandt hastened away as fast as possible , leaving Catalina to return at leisure . 
Sybrandt found the miserable , degraded being brandishing his club , and vociferating for more liquor with all his might . 
He was enraged into that sort of half-wilful madness which drunkenness often produces , and which is not so much the absence of reason , as of a disposition to obey its dictates . 
Sybrandt at first tried to soothe Captain Pipe , as he called himself , into something like good-humour , in hopes he would go away peaceably . 
Sybrandt became angry , and at length , finding the captain proceeding to force open a cupboard where he expected to find liquor , he seized him by the shoulders and jerked him back with such force as to send him reeling to the other extremity of the kitchen . 
He seemed all at once to become steady , and advancing quickly towards Sybrandt , who had no weapon in his hand , he dealt him a blow with his heavy walking-stick , which , had it taken full effect , would have disabled him effectually . 
Fortunately , Sybrandt , though taken by surprise , preserved his head by a quick motion on one side ; but it fell on his left shoulder with a force that made him reel . 
The blow was well aimed , but the activity and coolness of Sybrandt enabled him to avert it by darting on one side . 
The knife passed through his clothes just under the left arm , and at the instant the young man closed with the savage , holding him so tightly that he could not readily extricate his weapon . 
A momentary yet desperate struggle ensued , which ended in Sybrandt 's tripping up the heels of his adversary , and at the same moment throwing him backwards with such force that he fell upon one of the great andirons in the chimney , and lay senseless . 
The knife remained clenched in his hand ; but his eyes were closed , and the blood flowed in torrents from the back of his head . 
At this moment Catalina returned with the sword , which she conjured Sybrandt to accept . 
Dear Sybrandt , take the sword ; and -- and -- do not kill him , but stand on your defence . '' 
The youth long remembered the `` dear Sybrandt , '' and so did the Indian , who , as Catalina had shrewdly suspected , was only playing the opossum , as the phrase is in rare old Virginia ; that is , only making believe he was insensible . 
He intended to watch his opportunity , the moment he recovered a little , to jump up and accomplish the destruction of his victim . 
But the gift of the sword and the caution of Catalina defeated his intention , and engendered in his malignant heart a feeling of intense and bitter vengeance , that afterward more than once put the life of that young lady in imminent peril . 
He hated Colonel Vancour , because he himself had forfeited his protection by his base ingratitude ; he hated Sybrandt , for having wounded and conquered him ; and , above all , he hated Catalina , for having robbed him of one of the sweetest moments of revenge , by cautioning Sybrandt against his wiles , and furnishing him with a weapon to defeat them . 
Finally , he knew that he could consummate his revenge on all three , by taking the life of Catalina . 
This he purposed to do the first safe opportunity , and then flee into Canada to the remnant of his tribe . 
For this purpose , the moment he had got the musket , which was safer than his knife , by enabling him to commit the crime unseen , he set about his purpose with the patience , and cunning , and perseverance which savages are known to exercise in the prosecution of their revenge . 
Wherever Catalina went he kept her in his eye , hovering and lounging at a distance , apparently taking no notice of her , but intent on his game . 
In the daytime he was prowling about the deep glen we have described as once a favourite resort of Sybrandt , in hopes the young lady might chance to pay it a visit ; and at night he was on the watch about the mansion-house , like a hungry wolf thirsting for the blood of his victim . 
For some time past the hearts of Sybrandt and Catalina had been quietly and imperceptibly drawing nearer to each other . 
The riches of knowledge which had hitherto lain buried amid the rubbish of awkward rusticity , the sprightly good-humour and spirit which had been repressed by Sybrandt 's great talents for inflicting self-torment , now began to come forth in rich profusion , exhibiting a brighter polish every day in the soft collision with the purer metal of a sprightly , cultivated female mind . 
He was fast becoming what nature had intended him , an object of interest and consideration to all around him ; and the star of woman was gradually leading him to the haven of happiness as well as distinction . 
`` How much my cousin Sybrandt improves every day , '' thought Catalina , as she sat at the open window , and sighed to the silence of night and darkness . 
About ten in the evening of that day , as the whole family , together with Sybrandt and Ariel -- the latter , as usual , fast asleep in his chair -- were sitting around the supper-table , they were startled by the report of a gun close to the rear of the house , as it seemed , followed by a loud barking of the dogs . 
Sybrandt and Ariel ran out of the back door to see what was the matter , and found the whole population of the kitchen in great commotion , talking all together , each one telling what they knew or imagined . 
One declared that the gun was fired from the little copsewood , another from behind the raspberry bushes , a third from behind the garden fence , and a fourth was sure he saw a man jump over the fence immediately after the report of the gun . 
At length Sybrandt occurred to her , as one who might most secretly investigate this affair , and afford her in the mean time protection as well as advice . 
Sybrandt came over soon after to inquire if any new discoveries had been made , for he could not help cherishing certain vague suspicions that there must be something more than chance or fancy in the discharge of the gun , and the appearances observed by Catalina as heretofore described . 
Catalina invited him to walk in the garden , and there disclosed all the particulars as recorded in the preceding pages , up to the discovery of the bullet , which she exhibited . 
`` I know you will , Sybrandt , '' replied she , with a full look of more than gratitude . 
Sybrandt shook his head . 
The explanation was clear ; Catalina felt a faintness come over her , and leaned heavily on his arm . 
No doubt the villain , whoever he is , mistook the clothes on the back of the chair , which you say was standing directly before the window , for you , and -- and -- '' Here the increasing weight of Catalina arrested his attention , and looking in her face , he saw her pale as death . 
In a moment after her strength forsook her , and she sank in his arms overpowered by the sense of past as well as future probable dangers . 
Sybrandt placed her softly upon a little grass terrace , hid from view by a wilderness of flowering shrubs , and supporting her head on his bosom , waited in wild perturbation her recovery . 
In a little while she opened her eyes , blushed , and raised herself from his arms . 
`` And I am but a man , '' said Sybrandt warmly ; `` yet here I swear never to rest till I have dragged this secret villain to light and punishment . 
The soft and swelling bosom of Catalina heaved with emotions of gratitude , confidence , and gentle tenderness as she looked in his face with glistening eyes , and answered , `` I do value you sufficiently , and I will trust my cousin . 
Sybrandt did not take advantage of this moment to tell a tale of love . 
It was settled ere they separated , that Catalina should refrain from going out in future alone , or in the dusk of the evening , and never show herself at the window after dark , until Sybrandt had taken every measure to investigate this mysterious affair , and detect the meditating murderer . 
To this object he was now about to devote his exclusive attention , animated by his love , as well as by the hope that , guided as he should be by a latent suspicion which had risen up in his mind , he might succeed in the attempt . 
Sybrandt soon after took his leave , declining an invitation from Ariel to go and see the great ox the good man visited every day , and on whose fat sirloin he banqueted in glorious anticipation . 
Incasting about among the rural population of the neighbourhood , there was but one person on whom Sybrandt could fasten the slightest suspicion , and that was Captain Pipe . 
His sudden change after his release from prison -- his apparent piety , industry , and sobriety , and the circumstance of the purchase of the gun -- all arose in succession to the recollection of Sybrandt , and seemed to indicate some deep settled purpose in the mind of the Indian . 
He came the next day ; and that day , and every other day , Sybrandt , under various pretences , took care to have him perpetually under his eye , avoiding every appearance of design . 
said Sybrandt , one day , suddenly ; and fixing his eye upon him , he fancied he could detect a slight start as the Indian caught the question . 
`` I left it at home , '' said he . 
The Indian , who was at that moment stooping down , turned an upward glance of scorn at Sybrandt . 
said Sybrandt , affecting to be in jest . 
Sybrandt fancied he was probing the Indian without his suspecting it , but he understood the allegory perfectly , and only wrapped himself up the more closely in the impenetrable folds of savage hypocrisy . 
He never went out of sight of the house during the day , and though Sybrandt took every means for the purpose , he could never ascertain that he was absent at night . 
On one occasion he rode out , taking care to say in the hearing of the captain that he was going to Albany , and should not return till the morrow . 
Sybrandt 's heart would almost burst with sorrowful tenderness when he saw how she suffered , under the sad consciousness that the arrow of death was pointed at her bosom , she knew not when or by whom , and that every moment might be her last . 
But the caution of the savage never slept for a moment ; and , so far as any one knew , he never availed himself of the absence of Sybrandt to neglect his employment , and leave the house , except for a few moments at a time . 
Still suspicion lingered in the mind of Sybrandt , and when , finally , the captain had finished his work , and there was no longer any pretext for retaining him , he relaxed not his vigilance , but continued to keep a wary eye upon him wherever he went . 
Thus , notwithstanding all the care Sybrandt took to disguise his system of espionage , the wary instinct of Captain Pipe very soon taught him that he was suspected and watched . 
It was not so with Sybrandt . 
He could not conquer his suspicions that the captain was lurking somewhere in the woods not far off . 
He contented himself with being with her wherever she went , and perambulating about the mansion-house the better part of every night . 
Honest Dennis took him to task more than once for the nightly dissipations in which it was suspected he now indulged , and Sybrandt had the painful mortification of seeing that he was daily offending his benefactor almost past forgiveness . 
The news of his having become such a rake soon spread abroad ; for what secret was ever kept in a country neighbourhood ? 
Sybrandt was half-distracted with perplexing anguish . 
He asked of himself whether he should poison the happiness of Catalina and her parents , by telling them the cause of his nocturnal rambles from home ; or leave the poor girl in ignorance and unprotected ; or sacrifice himself , his character , and his happiness . 
`` It is better that she should believe me a sot and a profligate , '' thought he , `` than to wither and fade , as she did before , in the nightly apprehension of being murdered . 
He continued his course of watchfulness , and by degrees the supposed irregularities of his conduct banished him from the society of her he most loved on earth . 
Catalina refused any longer to see him , and now seldom went abroad , except once in a great while to Albany with her mother . 
The next time Sybrandt called at the mansion-house with a message from his benefactor , Catalina said to herself she would see him once , only once , before she went away for so many months . 
She went down stairs , where she found Sybrandt alone . 
Sybrandt started at the alteration a few weeks had produced in Catalina , and she shrunk at his hollow cheeks and sunken eyes . 
Rallying the pride and dignity of virtuous woman , she , however , addressed him with a frank kindness that went to his heart . 
exclaimed Sybrandt , with clasped hands . 
Sybrandt all at once recollected himself , and coloured at the sudden perception of the apparent rudeness of his conduct . 
`` But may I ask , cousin Sybrandt , if you really meant what you said ? '' 
O , hear me , I beseech you , now , since I am not to see you again ; '' and he placed himself between her and the door . 
He obeyed her , bowing lowly and sorrowfully . 
At the door she turned full upon him , and , clasping her hands , exclaimed with fervour , `` Thank God , I amgoing . '' 
Sybrandtwent away in bitterness of heart , but with a determination , if possible , to see Catalina once again before she departed , and give her a full explanation of his late conduct . 
In the mean time he did not for a moment relax in his vigilance . 
Sybrandt followed the sound as fast as possible , and once or twice fancied he saw something moving a little way before him . 
The next day Catalina , unconscious of the danger that hovered around her , took a fancy to stroll to the little rocky dell we have heretofore described as a favourite resort of Sybrandt , where he was once accustomed to retire to conjure up spectres of misery and mortification . 
Sybrandt saw Catalina depart ; and the course she pursued , as well as the whispering consciousness of his own heart , told him whither she was going . 
He turned pale and trembled when he called to mind the circumstances of the preceding night ; and taking an opposite direction , he hastened to the little glen , determined to hide himself and watch over her safety . 
He arrived at the spot before her , and concealing himself in the hollow of an immense oak that nodded on the brink of the high precipice , waited what might follow . 
Now is the time to tell her all , thought Sybrandt , and he forgot his great purpose in coming thither for a moment . 
Another moment brought it back to his remembrance . 
Here he remained quiet for somewhat more than half an hour , when he fancied he saw a pair of eyes glaring behind the thick evergreens that skirted the rear of the high rocky precipice . 
He shrunk closer in his covert , and in another moment saw a head cautiously protruded beyond the bushes . 
Almost on the verge of the precipice stood Sybrandt and the active , powerful Indian , struggling for life , each almost bursting their sinews to force the other off the brink . 
More than once the Indian attempted to draw his knife , but Sybrandt gave him such full employment for both his hands , that he as often failed in his purpose . 
But the vigour of the youth was now waning fast , for he had of late become weakened by watching and anxiety . 
The Indian felt the trembling of his limbs , and heard with savage delight the increased quickness of his breathing . 
He redoubled his exertions ; he grasped him tight in his arms , lifted him off his feet , and hurried him towards the verge of the rock . 
Sybrandt made a desperate effort ; he placed one foot on the rock , and with a quick motion of the other tripped up the heels of the Indian . 
Sybrandt was uppermost , but this was rather a disadvantage , for the Indian was enabled by violent exertions to edge himself on by degrees , until both were poised on the extremest verge , and hovered on the very brink , being determined to perish with him rather than fail in his purpose . 
Another moment and all had been over , when fortunately Sybrandt perceived a little evergreen growing out of the rock within his reach . 
He seized hold of it , and it sustained his grasp . 
With one hand he held it fast , with the other he suddenly pushed the Indian from under him , and he slipped over the precipice , still grasping the legs of the young man , who now clung to the shrub with both hands , making efforts to shake the Indian from his hold . 
Sybrandt raised himself slowly and with difficulty , and descended as fast as possible towards her . 
She waked in his arms , and by degrees came to a comprehension of all that had passed . 
Sybrandt went and dragged the body from the pool . 
`` No , dearest Sybrandt . 
And she raised her tearful eye to his , as if to ask forgiveness . 
cried Sybrandt , as he folded her in his arms . 
and he leaned his head on her shoulder , overpowered by the varying emotions and exertions of the past and present . 
`` 'T is only happiness -- I am faint with joy ; '' and again he leaned his head on her panting bosom . 
A dreadful shriek from Catalina roused him , and he saw the ghastly Indian close upon him , covered with blood , with his arm raised , and grasping his knife . 
Before he could take a step to defend himself the blow was given . 
The knife entered his bosom , and he staggered backwards , but did not fall . 
In a moment Sybrandt rallied himself , and evading a second blow , closed with the now exhausted and dying wretch , whom he dashed to the ground with furious indignation . 
The agony of death came upon him , but did not quench his ruling passion of revenge . 
With convulsive agony he repeatedly buried his knife up to the hilt in the earth , and his last breath expired in a blow . 
Poor Catalina , whose mind and body had sunk under the terrible vicissitudes of the day , during this momentary struggle sat wringing her hands , almost unconsciously repeating , `` Once -- twice -- thrice -- four times -- and then his own ! 
Sybrandt went to her and said , `` Fear nothing , dearest love , he is dead . '' 
`` What , Sybrandt ! 
`` I can not believe it , '' said she , recovering a little ; `` I saw the knife enter your bosom , yet you do not bleed . 
Sybrandt opened his bosom to assure her , and then , for the first time , comprehended the cause of his escaping unhurt . 
cried Sybrandt , and they bent their way towards the mansion-house . 
`` D -- n it , '' said little Ariel -- `` d -- n it , Sybrandt , who would have though it ! 
He is grown as big as an elephant . '' 
`` It was not for nothing , '' thought the silent Dennis -- `` it was not for nothing he studied these old Greeks and Romans . 
Sybrandt yielded with an aching heart and a bad grace to what he could not prevent . 
The busy fiends and phantoms that beset his earlier days rose up to his imagination , and flapped their wings , and whispered gloomy anticipations . 
Sybrandt could scarcely feel it , 't was so soft . 
`` Such miracles havecome to pass , '' replied he , answering her smile with one of melancholy . 
`` Sybrandt , '' said she , with solemn emphasis , `` see , the river out of which you dragged me when I was drowning is the same that rolls by the city whither I am now going . 
Be just to me , dear Sybrandt ; I can not , if I would , forget thee ! '' 
The jealous demons fled before this bright emanation of truth and virtue , and Sybrandt became reassured . 
A silent pressure of hands conveyed their last farewell greetings , and in a few minutes Sybrandt was seen standing alone on a green projecting point of the river , watching the vessel as it glided swiftly out of sight . 
When it was no longer visible , he turned himself towards home , and the world seemed to him suddenly changed into emptiness and nothing . 
Gradually her thoughts concentrated themselves upon Sybrandt Westbrook ; she recalled to mind those past incidents of her life which seemed intended by heaven to entwine their hearts in one indissoluble being , and gradually worked herself up to the conviction , that they neither would nor could be separated . 
A flood of tenderness , hallowed by this infusion of a holy and mysterious sanction , rushed into her soul ; she wished he were present at this apotheosis of all that was beautiful in nature , all that was tender in a woman 's heart , that she might recline in his circling arms , lay her head on his bosom , pour out her overflowing floods of tenderness in his ear , and exchange her love for his , in one long kiss of melting rapture . 
Into the hands of Mrs. Aubineau the colonel consigned his daughter for the winter , at the same time communicating her engagement with Sybrandt Westbrook , at which she laughed not a little in her sleeve . 
She accordingly forthwith fell to balancing accounts between the two suitors , for as to honest Sybrandt she looked upon that affair as a mere country arrangement , made to be broken the first convenient opportunity . 
Nay , some of the old ladies affected to ask her very significantly `` when itwas to be -- whether the old folks had given their consent , and especially how master Sybrandt Westbrook was , and whether he did not mean to spend part of the winter in town . '' 
The dissipations of a city life , the novelty of every thing around her , and more especially the incense every where administered to the sly lurking vanity which nestles somewhere in every human heart , had , by degrees , somewhat obscured the memory of Sybrandt in her bosom . 
During the winter season there was little intercourse between New-York and Albany , and consequently the letters that were interchanged between her and Sybrandt were few and far between . 
I shall to-day write to invite Sybrandt Westbrook to come down and spend the rest of the winter with us . 
Let him take care of his own interests , since you wo n't . '' 
`` If you do , I tell you once for all , my dear , I wo n't be civil to him . '' 
`` There 's no room for him in the house , '' said she , after a pause of consideration whether it was time to be angry . 
`` I shall have a bed made for him in my library . '' 
She determined to be uncommonly civil to Sybrandt if he came , and to make herself amends by counteracting his interests to the utmost of her power . 
That evening Mr. Aubineau informed Catalina he had written to invite Sybrandt . 
Indue time Sybrandt received the letter of Mr. Aubineau , and obtained a slow unwilling assent from Mr. Dennis Vancour to accept the invitation . 
However , she made no opposition to the visit of Sybrandt , trusting to the assurances contained in a letter from Mrs. Aubineau , which came by the same messenger who brought the invitation , that she would take care no good should come of Mr. Aubineau 's impertinent interference . 
He went to Albany four times a week , to superintend the construction of Sybrandt 's wardrobe , and hasten the completion of this arduous business . 
Sybrandt was out of all patience in the mean while ; but was amply rewarded for the delay , by the perfection of Master Goosee 's work ; which Uncle Dennis affirmed fitted just like wax , though heaven knows why . 
All things being in readiness , the good Dennis gave Sybrandt his blessing , together with abundance of advice , backed by a purse of guineas , the music of which far transcended that of the spheres , which the poets make such harangues about . 
`` D -- n it , Sybrandt , '' exclaimed the little Ariel , `` d -- n it , I should like to go with you ; but now I think of it , I ca n't neither . 
`` Good-by , massa Sybrandt , '' said old Tjerck , now almost bent double with age and rheumatism -- `` Good-by , massa Sybrandt -- never see old nigger again . '' 
Sybrandt was touched with this homely address , and the tears came into his eyes . 
He shook hands with the old partner of his first adventures , when he put on the toga and commenced man , and parted from him with sorrow . 
His speech to his young master was prophetic -- they never met again . 
A fewdays afterward Sybrandt arrived in his snuff-coloured suit , which of itself was enough to ruin the brightest prospects of the most thriving wooer . 
Poor Sybrandt ! 
Catalina received him , I can not tell exactly how . 
In short , it was an awkward business , and Sybrandt made it still more so , by being suddenly seized with an acute fit of his old malady of shyness and embarrassment . 
The very next evening after his arrival Sybrandt made his debut in the snuff-coloured suit , at a grand party given by his excellency the governor , in honour of his majesty 's birthday . 
If Sybrandt , the humble and obscure Sybrandt , who had nothing to recommend him but talents , learning , and intrepidity of soul -- if he was awed by the majesty of this illustrious assemblage of dignitaries , almost all of whom tacked honourable to their names , who can blame him ? 
And if , as he contrasted his snuff-coloured dress with the gorgeous military costumes of the aids-de-camp and officers , he felt , in spite of himself , a consciousness of inferiority , who can wonder ? 
And if , as he gazed on the big wigs of the judges , and the vast circumference of those hoops in which the beauties of New-York moved and revolved as in a universe of their own , he trembled to his inmost heart , who shall dare to question his courage ? 
To the weight of this feeling of inferiority , which pressed upon the modesty of his nature , and , as it were , enveloped his intellects in a fog of awkward embarrassment , were added various other causes of vexation . 
When it was whispered about that he was the country beau , the accepted one of the belle of New-York , the scrutiny he underwent would have quailed the heart of a roaring lion . 
The young ladies , who envied Catalina the conquest of the two aids , revenged themselves by tittering at her beau behind their fans . 
It was not many hours after this conversation before our friend Sybrandt was introduced to these good ladies , at their particular instance , and by them to their daughters . 
By one of those inextricable manoeuvres with which experienced dames contrive arrangements of this sort , Sybrandt was actually forced into dancing a minuet with Miss Van Borsum , although he would almost have preferred dancing a jig upon nothing . 
Gilfillan , who was speedily advertised by several communicative and good-natured old ladies , that could not bear to see him made a fool of , that Sybrandt was the real formidable man after all -- eyed him with an air of taunting ridicule . 
Sybrandt was on the lookout too , and returned these demonstrations with interest . 
Sybrandt felt himself drawn towards him , in spite of his being a rival . 
Do you suppose it possible for him to converse with Madame Van Borsum and dance with her daughter , without knowing all about it ? 
He affected to take not the least notice of Sybrandt , and pouted majestically with Catalina . 
He pretended not to hear when she addressed him -- neglected to ask her to dance -- came very near flirting with Miss Van Dam , only he did not know how -- retired into a corner where he stood two hours , sometimes resting on one leg , then on the other , like unto a goose ; and finally refused to cut up a boiled turkey at supper , when requested by the governor 's lady : at which piece of unheard-of audacity every body threw down their knives and forks in astonishment . 
Be this as it may , it is with pain I confess that the snuff-coloured garments heretofore commemorated , the tittering of the young ladies , the criticisms of their mothers , and above all the sly remarks of the officers , the ill-natured side-speeches of Mrs. Aubineau , together with a certain secret consciousness on the part of our heroine that our hero made but a sort of an indifferent figure at this illustrious gala , operated somewhat unfavourably to the interests of Sybrandt . 
But still she was a woman , and could not altogether resist the contagion of the ridicule poured out upon poor Sybrandt 's snuff-coloured inexpressibles . 
By degrees she found herself growing ashamed of her old admirer , whose attentions she received with a certain embarrassment and haughty coolness , which he saw and felt immediately ; for Sybrandt was no fool , although he did wear a snuff-coloured suit made by a Dutch tailor . 
Neither did he lack one spark of the spirit becoming a man conscious of his innate superiority over the gilded swarm around him . 
The moment he saw the state of Catalina 's feelings , he met her more than half-way , and intrenched himself behind his old defences of silent neglect and proud humility . 
He spoke to her no more that evening . 
`` If she thinks to make me jealous , she is very much mistaken , '' thought Sybrandt , while he perspired in an agony of vexation . 
The next morning Sybrandt breakfasted at home , said little , and thought a great deal -- the true secret of being stupid . 
Mrs. Aubineau asked him fifty questions about the ball , and especially about Miss Van Borsum . 
But she could get nothing out of him , except that he admired that young lady exceedingly . 
But the truth is , I do n't like either of them , and I do like my cousin Sybrandt . 
Sybrandt took it up with the intention of replacing it , when to his dismay and horror he discovered in it the likeness of Catalina , which Gilfillan , with an inexcusable want of delicacy and propriety , had procured to be copied from the original while in his possession . 
The blood of Sybrandt rushed to his heart , and thence to his face and fingers ' ends , where it tingled and burnt like liquid fire . 
He stood trembling with rage and anguish , the picture in his hand , when Gilfillan entered and was beginning in his gayest tones , with -- `` My dear Mr. Westbrook , by my soul you 're welcome '' -- when Sybrandt interrupted him without ceremony -- `` Colonel Gilfillan , when I inform you I have a deep interest in the question , I hope you will answer it frankly -- May I ask where you procured this picture ? '' 
He accordingly replied , with a careless if not contemptuous hauteur , -- `` Certainly , Mister -- a -- a -- Mister Westbrook , you are at perfect liberty to ask any question of me -- but allow me to observe , it depends upon myself whether I choose to answer . '' 
`` Then let me tell you , sir -- '' Sybrandt 's voice rung , his colour heightened , and his eye flashed . 
Sybrandt went to the table , and in an instant presented a paper to the colonel , on which were the following words : `` Meet me at six to-morrow morning , at Hoboken , and I 'll answer your question . '' 
Sybrandt had all this while held the picture in his clenched hand , almost unconsciously . 
But on being thus reminded of it , he threw it contemptuously on the table . 
So saying , he coolly deposited the picture in his bosom , and Sybrandt inwardly vowed to himself that he would aim right at the faithless resemblance . 
He accordingly hurried off to the government-house , while Sybrandt slowly turned towards the mansion of Mr. Aubineau , where Catalina was anxiously waiting to put her good resolutions in practice . 
A storm of contending passions agitated his mind , and when he came in sight of the house he turned away heart-sick with his wounded feelings , and wandered for hours in the fields that skirted the city . 
Sometimes he determined to depart without seeing Catalina , and at others to see her once more , reproach her with having trifled with his happiness , and then bid farewell for ever . 
`` Impossible , sir , '' exclaimed Gilfillan , abruptly , remembering his engagement with Sybrandt . 
His next step was to stride away to the mansion of Mr. Aubineau , for the purpose of bidding farewell to Catalina , whom he surprised in a deep revery , waiting the return of Sybrandt . 
On the departure of Gilfillan , Sybrandt in a state of desperation forced himself into the presence of our heroine , with a magnanimous resolution of relinquishing his claims , and declaring her free to marry whom she pleased . 
`` Sybrandt '' -- said she -- `` Sybrandt -- I -- I have something to say to you -- I -- '' `` It is unnecessary ; I know it all , '' replied he , proudly interrupting her . 
Sybrandt returned home and buried his secret in his own bosom . 
`` Damn it , Sybrandt , '' would he say , `` suppose you and I make a campaign , hey ? '' 
Sybrandt took the opportunity to offer his services , and Sir William gladly accepted them . 
Sybrandt went immediately to the good Dennis to announce his intention , and ask his consent to be a soldier . 
Sybrandt set about his preparations , and tried to banish every thing else from his recollection . 
The morning after his conversation with Sir William , he went over to Colonel Vancour 's to tell him he was ready . 
That evening Sybrandt visited some of his old haunts . 
So he rambled out by himself alone , in the mild twilight of an early spring day . 
The sacred calm of the country , so different from the racket of the noisy town , disposed his soul to the tenderest melancholy . 
Past scenes and early recollections thronged on his memory , while he wandered along his accustomed paths , where every object reminded him of the woman who had trifled with his affections , and inflicted in his heart an incurable wound . 
By degrees , the thought of her ill treatment roused a salutary feeling of indignation ; wounded pride came to the relief of his morbid sensibility . 
He shook the incumbent weight of sickly lassitude from his spirit , wiped the starting tear from his eye , and returned home with a manly resolution to meet his future fortunes , whatever these might be , with fortitude and resignation . 
`` Sybrandt , '' said Colonel Vancour , on taking leave after supper , -- `` Sybrandt , have you written to Catalina ? '' 
`` It means , sir , '' replied Sybrandt , almost choking with wounded pride and feeling , -- `` it means that -- she will one day tell you what it means -- I can not . '' 
Sybrandt admired and studied the character of this singular man , who combined as much mental and physical power as was ever perhaps concentrated in one individual . 
One day , as they were slowly ascending the mountain which bounds the southern extremity of Lake George , Sybrandt was more silent and abstracted than usual . 
Sybrandt was startled ; and the red consciousness shone in his face . 
Sybrandt rode close up to him , and exclaimed , in a low , suppressed tone -- `` Sir William Johnson , show me an enemy , and I will show myself a man . '' 
Sir William was not a man to be idle in such stirring times , or , indeed , at any time , and he determined that Sybrandt should have little leisure for devouring his own heart in idleness and disappointment . 
He accordingly detached him on various services ; sometimes to gain information of the motions of the enemy , who were said to be advancing in force ; sometimes with parties down Lake George to the fort of that name , which was a principal dept of supplies from Albany ; and at others to scour the woods in search of vagrant parties of hostile Indians , of whom large numbers were attached to the army of the enemy . 
In all these services Sybrandt acquitted himself with courage and discretion . 
`` I am ready , '' answered Sybrandt . 
`` Sir William Johnson , '' replied Sybrandt , proudly , `` you are my superior in rank and in merit , if you please , but this gives you no right to insult my feelings , nor am I inclined to submit to it . 
Sybrandt received it with an acknowledgment of grateful and affectionate respect . 
asked he . 
As Sir William concluded , Sybrandt heard a long dry sort of `` H-e-e-m-m , '' ejaculated just outside of the door . 
Sybrandt eyed his associate with close attention . 
He was a tall , wind-dried man , with extremely sharp , angular features , and a complexion of course bronzed by the exposures to which he had been subjected for so many years . 
His scanty head of hair was of a sort of sunburnt colour ; his beard of a month 's growth at least , and his eye of sprightly blue never rested a moment in its socket . 
Timothy hereupon subjected Sybrandt to a rigid scrutiny of those busy eyes of his , that seemed to run over him as quick as lightning . 
Sir William then explained the object of the expedition to Timothy much in the same manner he had previously done to Sybrandt . 
Sir William then with his own hand painted the face of Sybrandt so as to resemble that of an Indian -- an operation not at all necessary to Timothy ; his toilet was already made ; his complexion required no embellishment . 
A little bark canoe lay moored at the foot , into which Sybrandt and Timothy placed themselves flat on the bottom , each with his musket and accoutrements at his side , and a paddle in his hand . 
quoth Sybrandt . 
`` Not another word , '' whispered Sybrandt ; `` we may be overheard from the shore . '' 
again muttered Timothy , plying his paddle with a celerity and silence that Sybrandt vainly tried to equal . 
All became of one colour , and the earth and the air were confounded together in utter obscurity , at least to the eyes of Sybrandt Westbrook . 
Sybrandt did the same , peering just over the side of the boat , to discover if possible the reason of Timothy 's manuvres . 
whispered Sybrandt . 
This reply was perfectly convincing ; and Sybrandt again enjoining silence , they proceeded with the same celerity , and in the same intensity of darkness as before , for more than an hour . 
Sybrandt had no occasion to inquire the reason of this action ; for happening to look towards the shore , he could discover at a distance innumerable lights glimmering and flashing amid the obscurity , and rendering the darkness beyond the sphere of their influence still more profound . 
These lights appeared to extend several miles along what he supposed to be the strait or lake , which occasionally reflected their glancing rays upon its quiet bosom . 
`` If I like them , '' said Sybrandt . 
Sybrandt obeyed his injunctions ; and Timothy proceeded towards the lights , which appeared much farther off in the darkness than they really were , handling his paddle with such lightness and dexterity that Sybrandt could not hear the strokes . 
`` Must we leave our guns behind , '' whispered Sybrandt . 
After proceeding some distance , Sybrandt getting well scratched by the briars , and finding infinite difficulty in keeping up with Timothy , the latter stopped short . 
Sybrandt followed the direction , and beheld a group of five or six Indians seated round a fire , the waning lustre of which cast a fitful light upon their dark countenances , whose savage expression was heightened to ferocity by the stimulant of the debauch in which they were engaged . 
They sat on the ground swaying to and fro , backward and forward , and from side to side , ever and anon passing round the canteen from one to the other , and sometimes rudely snatching it away , when they thought either was drinking more than his share . 
Sybrandt could not understand it , but he could hear the quick suppressed breathings of his companion , who , when it was done , aspirated , in a tone of smothered vengeance , `` If I only had my gun ! '' 
`` Stay here a moment , '' whispered he , as he crept cautiously towards the noisy group , which all at once became perfectly quiet , and remained in the attitude of listening . 
muttered one , who appeared by his dress to be the principal . 
Timothy replied in a few Indian words , which Sybrandt did not comprehend ; and raising himself from the ground , suddenly appeared in the midst of them . 
After a pause he went on , at the same time eying Sybrandt with suspicion ; though his faculties were obscured by the fumes of the liquor he still continued to drink , and hand round at short intervals . 
`` Good , '' said the Utawas ; and for a few moments sunk into a kind of stupor , from which he suddenly roused himself , and grasping his tomahawk started up , rushed towards Sybrandt , and raising his deadly weapon , stood over him in the attitude of striking . 
Sybrandt remained perfectly unmoved , waiting the stroke . 
By the time he had finished his examination , the whole party with the exception of Timothy , Sybrandt , and the chief , were fast asleep . 
He then cautiously raised himself , and Sybrandt did the same . 
In a moment Timothy was down again , and Sybrandt followed his example without knowing why , until he heard some one approach , and distinguished , as they came nigh , two officers , apparently of rank . 
After this , he took their powder-horns and emptied them ; then seizing up the tomahawk of the Utawas chief , which had dropped from his hand , he stood over him for a moment , with an expression of deadly hatred which Sybrandt had never before seen in his or in any other countenance . 
The intense desire of killing one of the kritters , as he called them , struggled a few moments with his obligations to obey the orders of Sir William ; but the latter at length triumphed , and motioning Sybrandt , they crawled away with the silence and celerity with which they came ; launched their light canoe , and plied their paddles with might and main . 
asked Sybrandt . 
`` And you too , I guess , '' said Sybrandt , adopting his peculiar phraseology ; `` you would have been overtaken and killed . '' 
Sir William proceeded to question , and Sybrandt and Timothy to answer , until he drew from them all the important information of which they had possessed themselves . 
`` As to you , Sybrandt Westbrook , you have fulfilled the expectations I formed of you on our first acquaintance . 
His majesty shall know of this ; and , in the mean time , call yourself Major Westbrook , for such you are from this moment . 
With these inspiring anticipations he accompanied Sir William to the presence of the commander-in-chief ; they found him surrounded by a number of officers , among whom he was startled to see Colonel Gilfillan , who had just returned from a mission to New-York , whither he had been despatched by the general the very day Sybrandt joined the army at Ticonderoga . 
When his excellency had heard the report of Sybrandt , and commended his intrepidity , he announced his intention to sally forth and surprise the enemy , instead of remaining cooped up in their defences like cowards . 
As the officers separated to their respective destinations Sybrandt sought a meeting with Gilfillan , who favoured his wishes exceedingly . 
`` Colonel Gilfillan , '' said he , `` permit me to remind you of a certain affair in New-York which still remains unsettled . '' 
`` Major Westbrook , '' said the other , `` to-day for our country , to-morrow for Catalina . '' 
`` Come , Westbrook , '' said Sir William , `` let us go and make our wills . 
The moment the yell echoed through the forest Sir William exclaimed to Sybrandt , who was marching at his side , weary and disheartened , `` There they are ! 
Sybrandt followed , or rather kept at his side . 
Nor was friend Sybrandt idle . 
He , as well as all the rest , now fought on foot , either from choice or necessity ; and , as the obstructions of the ground prevented acting in concert , he was frequently engaged in personal contests with the hostile party . 
It so happened , however , that Sybrandt , who had now received two or three flesh-wounds , which had somewhat weakened him in the devious vicissitudes of the fight , encountered an Indian , who seemed the principal or one of the principal leaders of the hostile band . 
The sole defence of Sybrandt was a loaded pistol , with what was very rare at that time , a double barrel . 
It was one of a pair which constituted the only inheritance he received from his father . 
With cautious malice the Indian and the white man eyed each other ; the former keenly scrutinizing the latter to ascertain his means of defence , and Sybrandt displaying equal curiosity . 
The chief was at length satisfied that Sybrandt was unarmed , he having , at first sight of the savage , concealed his pistol for the purpose of disarming his caution . 
He accordingly approached our hero with uplifted tomahawk , still however with the characteristic caution of his race , until Sybrandt thought him sufficiently near , when he discharged one of his barrels , but not with a true aim . 
The ball just grazed his shoulder . 
The chief , supposing him now at his mercy , rushed upon him , but was received by a dead shot of the other barrel . 
It entered his heart , and he fell dead . 
In passing thus from one extremity of the fight to the other , Sybrandt became separated from his companions in the obscurity of the wood . 
While seeking the direction for joining them again , he heard something like a faint halloo at a little distance . 
After a moment 's reflection he made his way towards the sound with the caution becoming his situation , until at length , peering about beneath the branches , he discovered an officer lying at the foot of a tree , with his body partly raised and resting against it . 
At a little distance was an Indian grasping a knife , cautiously advancing , with an evident intention to practise upon him the bloody rites of savage barbarity . 
The face of the officer was turned towards Sybrandt , and , pale as it was , he at once recognised Gilfillan . 
When about half a dozen paces from Gilfillan , Sybrandt fired , and the Indian dropped . 
In another moment he was at the side of Gilfillan , who held out his hand to him , and said , faintly , `` Major Westbrook , I thank you ; -- not for my life , for that is gone past all recovery , I think ; but you have saved my skin from being ripped from my head ; and , by my soul , I am grateful . 
At this moment Sybrandt perceived a second Indian approaching with his tomahawk . 
After rescuing Sybrandt and Gilfillan from the savage in the manner just related , he came up to the young men , the former of whom he found insensible . 
`` Is he dead ? '' 
`` Only in a swound , '' replied Timothy ; `` the blood is almost out of his body , and that 's mostly what 's the matter with him . 
It 's a pity he should die of nothing , as I may say ; for I can tell you he 's a decent sort of a kritter -- he is n't afeard of nothin . '' 
`` I know that -- I owe him my rescue from the scalping knife , and I would give what remains of life , if it were a thousand times as much , to save him . 
`` There 's no danger of that , '' answered Gilfillan , with a melancholy smile , glancing his languid eye from his broken leg to the inanimate body of Sybrandt . 
The motion of the litter put into circulation the little blood that yet lingered in Sybrandt 's veins , and brought him by degrees to a consciousness of his situation . 
The wounds of Sybrandt were found in no way dangerous of themselves ; but it was feared that loss of blood and exposure to the night air might be followed by consequences that would endanger his life . 
Sybrandt was also so much exhausted that he had scarcely strength to sleep ; and ever and anon he could hear Gilfillan mumbling to himself in tones of feverish indistinctness , `` They sha 'n' t make a sight of me . '' 
About daylight in the morning he asked Sybrandt if he was awake , and finding that he was , spoke to him as follows : `` Westbrook , I have something to say to you ; and perhaps I 'd better say it now , for upon my soul , I think , nay , I 'm sure , it 's all over with me . '' 
`` And by the glory of my ancestors , Westbrook , if I 'm not better before that happens , I shall never be better . 
cried Gilfillan , raising himself in his bed -- `` Look you , Major Westbrook , if I had a pair of pistols here just now -- but what am I talking about ; do n't I owe my life , at least what 's left of it , to you ? 
He then disclosed to him the true history of the picture , and his rejection by Catalina the day he was seen by Sybrandt at the feet of that young lady , kissing her hands . 
`` She loves you , '' said he , faintly , `` and none other . 
When the surgeons visited the young men in the morning , they found Sybrandt somewhat better , though feverish : but they shook their heads when they examined the wound and felt the pulse of Gilfillan , declaring that nothing but immediate amputation could save him . 
Allthat day , and until the next morning , Gilfillan was at times delirious with pain and fever ; but towards the evening he came to himself , was entirely free from pain , and addressed Sybrandt coherently . 
said Sybrandt , hopefully . 
Sybrandt understood him , and did not reply . 
`` Westbrook , '' said he , faintly , `` can you lift me that little trunk on the table ? '' 
But stay ; I want you to bear witness that I charge Major Westbrook with this trunk . 
`` Westbrook , '' continued he , after a pause , `` there is a picture in this trunk which belongs to you . 
There is a seal attached to it , with my crest -- the crest of the ancient Connaught kings ; wear that for my sake , and -- '' Here his ideas seemed to become indistinct ; at least Sybrandt could not understand what he said for a minute or two . 
`` Westbrook , '' whispered he , `` I am going . '' 
The last words were almost unheard by Sybrandt , and in a little while the soul of the gallant Gilfillan was on its way to that country which all visit in turn ; of which none know any thing but the dead , who `` tell no tales . '' 
exclaimed Sybrandt , who had lain stretched on his bed , listening to the strain of music and the roaring artillery . 
The thought was not pleasant ; for he felt that he had something to live for now . 
During this period , the situation of Sybrandt continued very critical . 
His wounds were of little consequence ; but the loss of blood , the exposure to the night-air , and the subsequent agitation of his mind occasioned by the explanation with Gilfillan , brought on a slow fever , which threatened fatal consequences . 
After the departure of Sybrandt , Gilfillan , and Sir Thicknesse Throgmorton , she had nothing to gratify either her affection or her vanity . 
Though she blamed Sybrandt for not entering into the very recesses of her heart , and seeing himself there struggling with a little troop of vanities and caprices for mastery , still she could not in conscience deny that he had sufficient apparent cause , at least , for his desertion ; and thus to the disappointment of her hopes was added the sting of self-reproach . 
`` Well , sir , and what if she had ? '' 
`` And Sybrandt Westbrook is there , too . '' 
`` He is a jealous-pated fool , '' said madam . 
`` Sybrandt . '' 
`` Then you gave him cause , '' said madam , in a tone rather of exultation . 
`` Indeed , I did not -- that is , if he had known my real feelings he would have been satisfied . '' 
`` I shall write to Sybrandt , and set matters right , '' quoth the straightforward old gentleman , Colonel Vancour . 
screamed madam and Catalina , both together -- `` what , and tell I am dyingfor him ! 
Catalina opposed writing to Sybrandt , and so did her mother , although she could not help feeling anxious about the depressed health and spirits of her daughter . 
In the mean time , during the progress of those events , a correspondence on public affairs had been carried on between Sir William Johnson and Colonel Vancour , in which the former had taken occasion to mention the conduct of Sybrandt in terms of high approbation . 
It happened at this time there was no opportunity to send the letter by a public express , nor had Sybrandt patience to wait for one . 
He had in times past been accustomed to forage about the Flats , where he was well known , and where Sybrandt became acquainted with him . 
He accordingly intrusted him with his letter , together with two others , one for the good Dennis , the other for Colonel Vancour , the contents of which the reader may imagine for himself if he pleases . 
He accordingly entered the presence of Sybrandt with an intrepidity of face and manner that would have done honour to the most practised diplomatist . 
thought poor Sybrandt ; and his heart sank within him ; `` but she gave you something in return ? '' 
asked he , after a dead pause of agonized feeling . 
Sybrandt groaned an echo to the laugh of his unfeeling mistress . 
It was some minutes before he could rally his spirits to ask any more questions . 
said Sybrandt , in bitterness of spirit . 
`` No , he no laugh out loud like young madam -- he only smile a leetle -- so '' -- and the rascal just showed his ivory teeth . 
Sybrandt found himself sicker and sicker at the heart , with every word he heard . 
resumed he , at length . 
-- thought poor Master Sybrandt -- `` the draught becomes bitterer and bitterer : well , let me drink it to the bottom , to the dregs '' -- and he called anger and indignation to come and be his supporters . 
Sybrandt -LRB- as soon as he could muster strength and heart to do it -RRB- proceeded to question the mischievous mongrel closely and strictly as to the truth of his tale , which seemed to be at war with all he knew of his mistress and his uncles . 
`` Did you happen to hear any thing of Colonel Westbrook ? '' 
`` Westbrook ! 
Westbrook ! 
`` You were saying , sir , that you understood Colonel Westbrook was dead . 
When I inform you that he is a near relation , and an object of great interest to my family , I hope you will excuse me for requesting you to be particular in relating the circumstances of his death . '' 
As I mentioned before , I stopped but a few minutes at the Fort to receive despatches , and while sitting with the general , who was preparing them , the servant of Colonel Westbrook came running in to say his master had just expired . 
Accordingly , she went to the colonel , and frankly proposed to write to Sybrandt a full explanation of Catalina 's conduct and present feelings , and invite him home . 
The commanding officer at Albany had received letters by the hands of the young gentleman who had brought the news of Sybrandt 's death , at the foot of one of which was this short postscript : -- `` Colonel Westbrook is just dead ! '' 
She heard the confirmation of the death of poor Sybrandt ; and the loss of her lover was imbittered by the consciousness that she was a principal accomplice . 
The good Dennis -- the early friend , the father of our hero in all acts of fatherly affection -- who had smoked his pipe almost threescore years in quiet in the same old arm-chair -- heard the news of Sybrandt 's death without any outward symptoms of sorrow or despair . 
He possessed no great store of sensibility , but a slight shock will shake down an old building . 
He knocked the ashes out of his pipe deliberately against his thumb-nail , and that evening , and the next , and the next morning , noon , and night , when it was brought to him he put it aside without uttering a word . 
`` Massa in a terrible bad way , '' said his old dusky valet , who had been his playmate in youth , his faithful , humble friend through life ; `` massa in a terrible bad way when he no smoke he pipe . '' 
On the fourth day after receiving the news of Sybrandt 's death , he was found sitting in his arm-chair , dead . 
He had died without pain , for his face had all the placid quiet of a sweet sleep , and he sat upright as when alive . 
and nature squeezed some honest tears from his dry and withered sympathies . 
That worthy gentleman , it would seem , on hearing of the death of his nephew , had altered the disposition of his property , and substituted Catalina his sole heiress , in the room of Sybrandt Westbrook . 
massa Sybrandt 's spook ! '' 
what 's that you say about Sybrandt , you little black sinner ? '' 
`` O massa Sybrandt 's spook come home agin '' -- `` I 'll spook you , you little black imp of mischief , '' quoth Ariel , seizing the cushion from his chair , and launching it at his woolly head ; `` come here with such a cock-and-bull story as that ; get out , you caterpillar ! '' 
But the herald of darkness maintained his station and his story of the appearance of massa Sybrandt 's spook , until the old people did not know what to make of it , and the young lady was in a tumult of conflicting emotions . 
It was impossible to get any thing more out of the creature than that the spook had appeared in a great shower of rain , and knocked granddaddy flat on his face upon the floor . 
By degrees he became sufficiently collected to give Sybrandt an account of the events we have heretofore recorded . 
The reception of Sybrandt was somewhat cool and stately -- the deportment of the colonel , when the really joyful surprise of the moment was past , savoured of the recollection of his nephew 's neglect of his daughter , of himself , and indeed all his nearest , dearest friends . 
`` He did right , '' said Sybrandt ; `` he has left his fortune to her who best deserved it . '' 
`` And I pledge you mine , sir , '' said Sybrandt , somewhat bitterly , `` that I would rather starve than accept one single atom of the land , or one penny of the gold . 
Sybrandt declared his determination to remain where he was for the night . 
Sybrandt forced himself to ask . 
thought he , repeating the words of the colonel ; `` make them happy with the news that I am alive . 
But '' -- and a sudden idea crossed him -- `` but perhaps , as Sir William suggested , they never received them . 
That Sybrandt ever awakened from his swoon , was , in a great measure , owing to the persevering efforts of his friend Sir William , who happened to be coming to see him just at the moment , and whose long experience in administering to his subjects , the Indians , had made him no indifferent practitioner . 
He succeeded in restoring him at last , and the youth again opened his eyes to that world which at that moment he wished to shut out for ever . 
Sybrandt then proceeded to relate what the reader already knows . 
The conduct of Catalina in New-York , his anger and jealousy , the story of the picture , the explanation of Gilfillan , and , finally , the mission of the half-breed to the Flats . 
The next morning they were ready to depart , under the protection of an escort of Sir William 's Mohawks , some of whom by turns carried Sybrandt in a rude litter of boughs . 
There were no carriageroads through the wilderness between Fort George and the capital of the knight 's dominions , and Sybrandt was still too weak to walk or ride on horseback any great distance . 
The exercise of travelling , co-operating with the new-born hope which the suggestion of his friend Sir William had awakened , proved of great service to our hero , who arrived at the residence of that worthy knight far better than when he set out . 
Sybrandt had been gradually coming to the same conclusion , and frankly answered , `` Well , Sir William , since you will turn me out of doors , there is no help for it . 
`` You are an odd fellow , Westbrook , '' said the other , smiling , `` and seem afraid of nothing -- but a woman . '' 
`` Westbrook , '' said the knight , as they were taking leave , `` do n't forget to invite me to your wedding . '' 
asked Sybrandt , with a melancholy smile . 
She settled the matter by deciding , that when Sybrandt came the next day to take his leave , she would deliver him a deed for the estate of his uncle , which her father was to have prepared for her , insist on his acceptance , and then bid him adieu for ever without a sigh or a tear . 
In the morning she begged , that when Sybrandt came to call on her mother , she might be permitted to see him alone . 
Her request was acquiesced in , and she waited in trembling anxiety his promised visit . 
He came soon after breakfast , and Madam Vancour was struck with the improvement a suit of military uniform , in place of a suit of master Ten Broeck 's snuff-coloured cloth , produced . 
After a somewhat painful and awkward interview , Sybrandt forced himself to inquire after Catalina . 
cried Sybrandt , almost starting out of his skin . 
thought Sybrandt , while he crept towards the door with about the same eagerness a man feels who is just about to be hanged . 
She was too much taken up in ral lying her own self-possession to observe how Sybrandt looked when he walked . 
He had indeed been some moments in the room before either could utter a single word . 
`` Dear cousin , '' said Sybrandt , `` how ill you look . '' 
But Catalina was even with him , for she answered in his very words : `` Dear cousin , how ill youlook . '' 
Sybrandt found his courage , like that of honest Bob Acres , `` oozing out at the palms of his hands , '' in the shape of a cold perspiration ; but the pride of woman supported Catalina , who rallied soonest , and spoke as follows , at first in a faltering tone , but by degrees with modest firmness : `` Colonel Westbrook , '' said she , `` I wished to see you on a subject which has occasioned me much pain : the bequest of your uncle and mine . 
It was made when we all thought you were no more ; '' and she uttered this last part of the sentence with a plaintiveness that went to his heart . 
`` She feels for me , '' thought he ; `` but then she would not answer my letter . '' 
And the same plaintive tones again went to the heart of Sybrandt . 
`` But she would not answer my letter , '' thought he , again . 
`` Sybrandt , '' continued she , `` I sent for you , with the full approbation of my father and mother , to make over this bequest to you , to whom it belongs . 
`` The letter I sent you , '' replied he , proudly . 
Answer me , Sybrandt , as you are a man of honour -- is it ? '' 
`` You are mine then , Catalina , at last , '' faltered Sybrandt , as he released her soft and yielding form from his arms . 
`` You must take it with that encumbrance , '' said she , -- and he sealed the instrument of conveyance upon her warm , willing lips . 
As she could distinguish the increasing animation of their voices she fidgeted still more ; and there is no knowing what might have been the consequence , if Catalina and Sybrandt had not entered the room looking so happy that the old lady thought the very d -- l was in them both . 
The moment Sybrandt departed , Catalina explained all to her mother . 
thought the good woman ; `` she will never be a titled lady ; yet who knows but Sybrandt may one day go to England and be knighted ? '' 
`` Do you recollect my last words when we parted , Colonel Westbrook , '' said Sir William Johnson , their most honoured guest . 
One of Sybrandt 's cousins however , came over in process of time a baronet , with bloody hand , and the old lady consoled herself , that , if not the mother , she was a near relation to a near relation of a man whose cousin could make his wife a lady . 
What was better than all this , the cousin was an elderly man , a bachelor , and Sybrandt was his heir-at-law . 
`` Sybrandt , '' said Sir William , `` I shall be obliged to depart to-morrow before you are up . 
