The logs blazed , and the table was laid to celebrate young Richard 's birthday . 
On Richard 's seventh birthday , it was excited to some definite shape , and was not so pliable . 
The members of the family were at breakfast with little Richard , and Sir Austin had joked his brother-in-law Wentworth on his habit of excessive early rising , as his man had seen the Colonel coming across the Park , apparently from the village , at six in the morning : to which the Colonel carelessly replied , that he could not sleep , and the matter was passing off , when Ricky cries out : `` Oh , Papa ! 
Little Richard had spoken what he knew , but observing an inquiring hesitation linger in his father 's eyes , and loath to let it go unsatisfied , he drew upon his imagination instantly , and began to pour forth what he now remembered the Lady next did , and next did , with astounding readiness . 
Master Richard threw gallons of cold water on the pleasures of the day by his morning 's eloquence , and had his enjoyments thwarted at every turn . 
His uncle Cuthbert had proposed to take him for a sail on the river . 
cried Richard , releasing his hand . 
Richard fell back sullenly . 
`` I desire you to come , my boy , '' said his father , with the gentle severity of a last command . 
And the young seven-year-old , wrought to the furthest pitch of endurance , stamped his foot , and flushed , as he cried , looking his father full in the face , `` I wo n't ! 
Of course , he had to go ; but when he came back , approved robust , he was covered with the caresses of the field , and enjoyed an enraptured hug from Lady Blandish : the lady provoking thereby those reflections in The Pilgrim 's Scrip , ` On the Popularity of the Forbidden Fruit , and the preference we have for it , provided an Innocent offer it us . ' 
Richard 's Uncles pass out of his history after this sacrifice of a leg for him . 
Some of the gallant lieutenant 's trophies of war decorated the little boy 's play-shed at Raynham , and he bequeathed his sword to Richard , whose hero he was . 
It was Algernon who witnessed and chronicled Richard 's first fight , a very plucky combat with young Tom Blaize of Belthorpe Farm , three years the boy 's senior , whom , with the aid of Science , he defeated . 
Very different for young Richard would it have been had Austin taken his right place in the Baronet 's favour : but Austin had offended against the Baronet 's main crotchet : who said , in answer to Lady Blandish , that , to ally oneself randomly was to be guilty of a crime before Heaven greater than the offence it sought to extinguish ; and he had heard that his nephew was the one seduced . 
With these intimates young Richard Feverel lived in the great House , unconscious of the tight jacket he was gathering flesh to feel . 
The System hung loosely on his limbs at first . 
The Curate of Lobourne attended to his rudimentary lessons : a Papworth being sometimes invited to Raynham to play with him , who said , he was a lucky fellow not to be sent to school , and tried to make the boy think so , for which purpose he had , perhaps , been brought over . 
The Curate of Labourne sent in a report that Master Richard 's lessons were contumaciously disregarded : that in his Latin and Greek he was retrograding : in propriety of behaviour likewise ; for witness , exhibiting a broken slate and a broken window of the room set apart for his studies . 
Sir Austin continued to meditate some days , and then requested the Wise Youth 's advice on a proposition conceived by him , to have a boy of Richard 's age to stay with him in the house and be his comrade . 
In this way Richard was gifted with a comrade , and Master Ripton Thompson became an inmate of Raynham . 
Richard led , and Ripton followed . 
Ripton thought one or two things in his leader rather odd : for instance , his proficiency in manly sports and exercises , joined to his habit of calling his father , Papa , and not Governor , and his entire ignorance about the ways of the girls , and indifference to them ; but he concealed his surprise , having been primed by his parents to behave acquiescently , whatever he saw to astonish him . 
On the morning of the fourteenth birthday , Ripton had to stow away loud bursts of laughter in the capacious sleeve his provident parents had furnished him with . 
He was standing waiting for the favoured boy on the gravel-walk fronting the breakfast-room from which he had escaped five minutes before , when forth started Richard , and , catching him by the arm , bore him hurriedly towards the darkest corner of the clustered beeches , and then told him , he would see nobody -- he would leave Raynham -- he would quit the country , if he could -- be a sailor -- a cabin-boy -- a common soldier -- anything , that he might never be seen there again . 
All this he uttered between a gnawing of the lips , and a blinking of the eyes , a flushing of the cheeks , and a clenching of the fists , showing a frenzy of shamefacedness . 
He seemed in the gripe of his birthday devil , as they called it at Raynham , where , till that day , he was generally a brisk happy boy . 
Ripton kindly endeavoured to console him , but was silenced by a fiercer repetition of the threats . 
`` I have been insulted , '' cried Richard ; `` insulted by my own father . 
and he dragged Ripton further into the covert . 
asked Ripton once more , when he could grasp at a halt . 
Richard replied . 
and Ripton had to resume his trot . 
shouted Richard menacingly , as he saw the great mute O of Ripton 's mouth stretch its length towards explosion . 
With an effort that cost him tears , Ripton swallowed his guffaw . 
and poor Ripton was soon far from the preparations for the festivities dear to his ears . 
They then fell upon the question of Richard 's marrying . 
For in Richard 's bosom a fate was working , and the shame of the insult , as he thought it , rankled . 
`` I know what we 'll do , '' cries Richard , his features suddenly lighting up , `` we 'll have a day 's shooting ! 
He turned to his friend to see how his proposal was received . 
said Richard , `` look what a day it is . 
And he made Ripton moodily retrace his steps . 
It seemed mad and stupid to Ripton 's sense of reason , but he was a bondsman and bound to acquiesce . 
He mumbled something about not having a license , and was putting that in for a plea against the expedition , till Richard assured him positively that every gentleman had a license , and Ripton , who deeply delighted in the notion of belonging to that privileged class , and walked with tight boots , and underwent daily tortures , to induce the world to accept him as one , admitted it was the case that every gentleman had a license , and therefore he must have one . 
The boys had to round the lake before they could plunge into perfect concealment , and as they did so , Richard cried out , `` Look ! 
Ripton cast a dissatisfied eye on the phenomenon , not a whit inclined to express any wonder , if he felt it . 
Richard moved forward and back on the brink of the lake , pretending that the reflection of the cypress pointed after him . 
he continued . 
Ripton said , he did not , because all shadows seemed to do the same , in a modified way : but there , Richard assured him , he was wrong , as this cypress was the only tree ever known to do it . 
`` Though I do n't believe it means anything , '' he added . 
Richard shouldered his own gun , a light single-barrel , suitable for his years . 
He was rather shortsighted and inexperienced in guns , though it was out of the question he should admit the fact , every gentleman being familiar with guns from his birth . 
It was not in bravado that he carried a rifle instead of a fowling-piece . 
said Richard . 
`` Then we 'll have a dozen brace apiece to-day , '' said Richard . 
Earth reeled round his figure of confusion as Richard fired . 
He fired , but old Mark 'em made no blithe bounds in advance . 
Richard reproached his friend bitterly . 
Ripton explained humbly that he had forgotten to load . 
`` Always load at home , '' said Richard . 
His eye fell on the instrument Ripton carried to make war on the feathery creation , and he recognized his Uncle 's rifle . 
he said . 
He looked scornfully , and the next minute called his friend , Ripton , a fool . 
He was a disappointed boy that morning , and a Briton in bondage -- a very dangerous animal at all times . 
Richard had added the emphasis of conviction to the insulting epithet . 
A boy does not like to be called a fool , and is usually ready to try the question with his fists when a doubt is once cast on him ; as of old Valour asserted the spotlessness of fair dames ; and if he conquers it is clear that he can not be a fool . 
Feeling that circumstances were making him look wonderfully like one , Ripton lifted his head and retorted defiantly , `` I 'm not ! '' 
This angry contradiction , so very uncalled-for , offended Richard , who was still smarting at the loss of his birds , and was really the injured party . 
He therefore bestowed the abusive epithet on Ripton anew , and with increase of emphasis . 
`` You sha n't call me so , then , whether I am or not , '' says Ripton , and sucks his lips , looking wicked . 
Richard sent up his brows , and stared at his defier an instant . 
He then informed him that he certainly should call him so , and would not object to call him so twenty times . 
returns Ripton , rocking on his pins , and breathing quick . 
With a gravity of which only boys and other barbarians are capable , Richard went through the entire number stressing the epithet to increase the defiance and avoid monotony , as he progressed , while Ripton bobbed his head every time in assent , as it were , to his comrade 's accuracy , and as a record for his profound humiliation . 
Twenty times , duly and deliberately , Richard repeated the obnoxious word . 
Ripton had delivered a smart back-hander on Richard 's mouth , and squared precipitately ; perhaps sorry when the deed was done , for he was a kind-hearted lad , and as Richard simply bowed in acknowledgment of the blow , he thought he had gone too far . 
He did not know the young gentleman he was dealing with . 
Richard was extremely cool . 
he said . 
And Richard led the way with a courteous reserve that somewhat chilled Ripton 's ardour for the contest . 
On the skirts of the wood , Richard threw off his jacket and waistcoat , and , quite collected , waited for Ripton to do the same . 
Richard had mounted the white cockade of the Feverels , and there was a look in him that asked for tough work to extinguish . 
His brows , slightly lined upward at the temples , converging to a knot about the well-set straight nose ; his full grey eyes , open nostrils , and planted feet , and a gentlemanly air of calm and alertness , formed a spirited picture of a young combatant . 
Nevertheless he squared up dauntlessly on the new ground , and Richard , whose wrath was appeased , could not refrain from asking him whether he had not really had enough . 
`` Well , look here , '' said Richard , appealing to common sense , `` I 'm tired of knocking you down . 
Ripton demurred an instant to consult with Honour , who bade him catch at his chance . 
He held out his hand . 
Ripton had gained his point , and Richard decidedly had the best of it . 
The birds on the Raynham estates were found singularly cunning , and repeatedly eluded the aim of these prime shots , so they pushed their expedition into the lands of their neighbours , in search of a stupider race , happily oblivious of the laws and conditions of trespass : unconscious too that they were poaching on the demesne of the notorious farmer Blaize , the free-trade farmer under the shield of the Papworths , parent of Richard 's first defeated foe , and no worshiper of the Griffin between Two Wheatsheaves : destined to be much allied with Richard 's fortunes from beginning to end . 
Richard had brought down a beautiful cock-pheasant , and was exulting over it , when the farmer 's portentous figure burst upon them , cracking an avenging horsewhip . 
His salute was ironical . 
radiant Richard informed him . 
Richard opened his eyes . 
`` Then we 'll stay , '' quoth Richard . 
`` Take your beastly bird , '' cried Richard . 
you big brute , '' Richard shook his gun , hoarse with passion , `` I 'd have shot you , if I 'd been loaded . 
Richard , however , knocked them all out , saying , `` No ! 
pleaded Ripton , with his eye on Farmer Blaize 's broad mark , and his whole mind drunken with a sudden revelation of the advantages of light troops in opposition to heavies . 
`` No , '' said Richard , imperatively , `` no stones , '' and marched briskly away . 
His leader 's magnanimity was wholly beyond him . 
A good spanking mark at the farmer would have relieved Master Ripton : it would have done nothing to console Richard Feverel for the ignominy he had been compelled to submit to . 
Ripton was familiar with the rod , a monster much despoiled of his terrors by intimacy . 
The horrible sense of shame , self-loathing , universal hatred , impotent vengeance , as if the spirit were steeped in abysmal blackness , which comes upon a courageous and sensitive youth condemned for the first time to taste this piece of fleshly bitterness and suffer what he feels is a defilement , Ripton had weathered , and forgotten . 
He was seasoned wood , and took the world pretty wisely ; not reckless of castigation , as some boys become , nor over-sensitive as to dishonour , as his friend and comrade beside him was . 
Richard 's blood was poisoned . 
He had the fever on him severely . 
He would not allow stone-flinging , because it was a habit of his to discountenance it . 
Then he , Richard Feverel , would stand by the farmer 's bedside , and rouse him ; rouse him to fight with powder and ball in his own chamber , in the cowardly midnight , where he might tremble , but dare not refuse . 
cried simple Ripton , while these hopeful plots were raging in his comrade 's brain , now sparkling for immediate execution , and anon lapsing disdainfully dark in their chances of fulfilment , `` how I wish you 'd have let me notch him , Ricky ! 
Ripton moved a meditative forefinger down the bridge of his nose , as this horrible suspicion clouded him . 
To these doleful exclamations Richard was deaf , and trudged steadily forward , facing but one object . 
After tearing through innumerable hedges , leaping fences , jumping dykes , penetrating brambly copses , and getting dirty , ragged , and tired , Ripton awoke from his dream of Farmer Blaize and a blue nose , to the vivid consciousness of hunger ; and this consciousness grew with the rapidity of light upon him , till in the course of another minute he was enduring the extremes of famine , and ventured to question his leader whither he was being conducted . 
Richard now broke his silence to reply , `` Anywhere . '' 
he gasped vehemently in a way that showed the total emptiness of his stomach . 
`` No , '' was Richard 's brief response . 
Ripton 's amazement lent him increased vehemence . 
Richard sneered : not for reasons that would have actuated a similar demonstration of the philosopher . 
Richard faced about to make a querulous retort . 
The injured and hapless visage that met his eye disarmed him . 
To upbraid him would be cruel . 
Richard lifted his head , surveyed the position , and exclaiming , `` Here ! '' 
dropped down on a withered bank , leaving Ripton to contemplate him as a puzzle whose every new move was a worse perplexity . 
`` I 'll give you half-a-crown for that loaf , my good fellow , '' said Richard to the Tinker . 
He warmed in it till , after the Ciceronic model , inanimate objects were personified , and Richard 's table-napkin and vacant chair were invoked to follow the steps of a peerless father , and uphold with his dignity the honour of the Feverels . 
But the reply , the thanks which young Richard should have delivered in person were not forthcoming . 
She took the light , and stole on tiptoe to Richard 's room . 
No Richard was there . 
Richard had slighted and offended the little lady , and was to be asked whether he did not repent such conduct towards his cousin ; not to be asked whether he had forgotten to receive his birthday kiss from her ; for if he did not choose to remember that , Miss Clare would never remind him of it , and tonight should be his last chance of a reconciliation . 
Thus she meditated , sitting on a stair , and presently heard Richard 's voice below in the hall , shouting for supper . 
`` He complains of being hungry , '' the butler hesitated , with a look of solemn disgust . 
`` Let him eat . '' 
Richard was uproarious . 
He drank a health with every glass . 
His cheeks were flushed , and his eye brilliant . 
Ripton looked very much like a rogue on the tremble of detection , but his honest hunger and the partridge-pie shielded him awhile from Adrian 's scrutinizing glance . 
he began his quiet banter , and provoked a loud peal of laughter from Richard . 
``` He speaks : can I trust what he says is sincere ? 
There 's an edge to his smile which cuts much like a sneer . ' 
cried Richard . 
Richard gave his lungs loud play . 
said Richard . 
`` I fancy I should return the compliment , my lad , '' replied his Uncle . 
`` I 've boxed his son ; I 'll box him , '' said Richard , shouting for more wine . 
cries Richard . 
One subject was at Richard 's heart , about which he was reserved in the midst of his riot . 
Too proud to inquire how his father had taken his absence , he burned to hear whether he was in disgrace . 
He led to it repeatedly , and it was constantly evaded by Algernon and Adrian . 
Young Richard 's face fell at that , and his gaiety forsook him . 
He marched to his room without another word . 
He passed the chamber where the Great-Aunt Grantley lay , who was to swell Richard 's fortune , and so perform her chief business on earth . 
By her door he murmured , `` Good creature ! 
He had his thoughts at Hippias 's somnolent door , and to them the world might have subscribed . 
Algernon challenged him , and was quieted by two knocks which he knew . 
He entered Richard 's room . 
The heads of his son Richard and the boy Thompson were seen crouched against the glass , holding excited converse together . 
Richard allowed a long minute to pass , during which the Baronet waited anxiously for his voice : hardly recognizing it , when he heard its altered tones . 
`` I do n't think about it , '' said Richard , all his faculties bent on signs from Lobourne . 
Richard answered him : `` Yes . 
You know , it may come out any day , and then we 're done for , '' he rather incongruously appended . 
Richard only took up the business-threads of his friend 's rambling chatter , and answered : `` You 've got nothing to do with it , if we are . '' 
cried Richard in great heat . 
`` I 'll fetch my telescope , '' said Richard . 
Ripton , somehow not liking to be left alone , caught hold of him . 
The window was flung open , and the boys instantly stretched half their bodies out of it : Ripton appearing to devour the rising flames with his mouth : Richard with his eyes . 
shouted Richard , overcome by excitement , `` if I had my telescope ! 
He took occasion to have it read out before the two boys , who listened very demurely , as to an ordinary newspaper incident : only when the Report particularized the peculiar garments damaged , and the unwonted distressing position farmer Blaize was reduced to in his bed , an indecorous fit of sneezing laid hold of Master Ripton Thompson , and Richard bit his lip and burst into loud laughter , Ripton joining him , lost to consequences . 
`` I 'm sorry about the poor horses , Sir , '' Richard replied , looking anything but sorry about the poor man . 
He therefore treated the boy as he commonly did , and young Richard saw no change in his father to make him think he was suspected . 
Voluntarily he did nothing to work off the destructive nervous fluid , or whatever it may be , which is in man 's nature ; so that two culprit boys once in his power were not likely to taste the gentle hand of Mercy , and Richard and Ripton paid for many a trout and partridge spared . 
But he had to check the young natural lawyer , for the effect of so much masked examination upon Richard was growing baneful . 
In other words , Richard showed symptoms of a disposition to take refuge in lies . 
`` I tell you I do n't know the grounds , '' Richard sullenly replied . 
laughed Richard , to his friend 's disgust and alarm at his daring : `` You do n't mean this Rip , do you ? '' 
`` More likely two tinkers , '' said Richard . 
Ingenuous Ripton looking about , as if to aid himself whenever he was able to speak the truth , beheld Richard 's face blackening at him , and swallowed back half the word . 
said Richard , with a stubborn assumption of innocence sad to see . 
He would not tell , for that would ruin his future influence with Richard ; still he wanted some present credit for his discernment and devotion . 
Ripton was fast becoming a coward , and Richard a liar , when next morning Austin Wentworth came over from Poer Hall bringing news that one Mr. Thomas Bakewell , yeoman , had been arrested on suspicion of the crime of Arson and lodged in jail , awaiting the magisterial pleasure of Sir Miles Papworth . 
Austin 's eye rested on Richard , as he spoke these terrible tidings . 
The Hope of Raynham returned his look , perfectly calm , and had , moreover , the presence of mind not to look at Ripton . 
`` There 's only one chance , '' said Richard , coming to a dead halt , and folding his arms resolutely . 
His comrade inquired with the utmost eagerness , what that chance might be ? 
Richard fixed his eyes on a flint , and replied : `` We must rescue that fellow from jail . '' 
Ripton gazed at his leader , and fell back with astonishment . 
Richard still perusing his flint , replied : `` We must manage to get a file in to him , and a rope . 
exclaimed Ripton , taking off his cap to wipe his frenzied forehead , and brought down his friend 's severe reproof . 
You talk about Robin Hood and King Richard ! 
This was how it came that Austin eyed young Richard seriously while he told the news at Raynham . 
Richard repeated the intelligence to Ripton , who cried aloud that Tom was a brick . 
`` He sha n't suffer for it , '' said Richard , and pondered on a thicker rope and sharper file . 
Richard 's lip expressed contempt . 
Richard , smiling , wished to know if he meant Adrian ? 
Ripton hurriedly reassured him . 
The same idea was knocking at Richard 's head . 
`` Let 's get the rope and file first , '' said he , and to Bursley they went for those implements to defeat the law , Ripton procuring the file at one shop , and Richard the rope at another ; with such masterly cunning did they lay their measures for the avoidance of every possible chance of detection . 
Again and again young Richard begged his cousin not to see him disgraced , and to help him in this extremity . 
Richard was too entirely bent upon the round-about method to consider this advice more than empty words , and only ground his teeth at Austin 's unkind refusal . 
He imparted to Ripton , at the eleventh hour , that they must do it themselves , to which Ripton heavily assented . 
Homeric laughter and nothing else could be got out of Adrian when he heard of the doings of these desperate boys : How they had entered Dame Bakewell 's smallest of retail shops , and purchased tea , sugar , candles , and comfits of every description , till the shop was clear of customers : how they had then hurried her into her little back-parlour , where Richard had torn open his shirt and revealed the coils of rope , and Ripton displayed the point of a file from a serpentine recess in his jacket : how they had then told the astonished woman that the rope she saw and the file she saw were instruments for the liberation of her son ; that there existed no other means on earth to save him , they , the boys , having unsuccessfully attempted all : how upon that Richard had tried with the utmost earnestness to persuade her to disrobe and wind the rope round her own person ; and Ripton had aired his cloquence to induce her to secrete the file : how , when she resolutely objected to the rope , both boys began backing the file , and in an evil hour , she feared , said Dame Bakewell , she had rewarded the gracious permission given her by Sir Miles Papworth to visit her son , by tempting Tom to file the Law . 
Austin saw it sadly , and foreboded of Richard 's future . 
Austin left him , to look about the grounds for Richard . 
To this spot Richard had retired , and there Austin found him with his head buried in his hands , a picture of Desperation whose last shift has been defeated . 
Sir Austin signified his opinion that a boy should obey his parent , by giving orders to Heavy Benson for Ripton 's box to be packed and ready before noon ; and Ripton 's alacrity in taking the Baronet 's view of filial duty , was as little feigned as his offer to Richard to throw filial duty to the winds . 
He rejoiced that the Fates had agreed to remove him from the very hot neighbourhood Lobourne , while he grieved , like an honest lad , to see his comrade left to face calamity alone . 
The boys parted amicably as they could hardly fail to do , when Ripton had sworn fealty to the Feverels with a fervour that made him declare himself bond and due to appear at any stated hour and at any stated place to fight all the farmers in England , on a mandate from the heir of the House . 
`` He is a coward , '' cried Richard fiercely . 
Richard had raised his head in the heat of his denunciation of poor Tom . 
He would have hidden it , had he known the thought in Austin 's clear eyes while he faced them . 
Richard scorned the poor contempt . 
shouted Richard . 
Richard faltered . 
he admitted that he never could have told people . 
Young Richard 's eyes were wandering on Austin 's gravely cheerful face . 
A keen intentness suddenly fixed them , and he dropped his head . 
Richard was silent . 
Altogether to surrender his Rope and File was a fearful sacrifice , after all the time , trepidation , and study , he had spent on those two saving instruments . 
If he avowed Tom 's manly behaviour , Richard Feverel was in a totally new position . 
Whereas , by keeping Tom a coward , Richard Feverel was the injured one , and to seem injured is always a luxury ; sometimes a necessity , whether among boys or men . 
He had but a blind notion of the fierceness with which it raged in young Richard . 
Richard 's nature , left to itself , wanted little more than an indication of the proper track , and when he said , `` Tell me what I can do , Austin ? '' 
he had fought the best half of the battle . 
His voice was subdued . 
said Richard , sullenly divining the deed of penance . 
The boy bit his lip , and frowned . 
Richard groaned in soul . 
Richard stuck to that view of the case , and stuck to it the faster the more imperatively the urgency of a movement dawned upon him . 
Richard 's lip quivered . 
At Austin 's slow enunciation of this obverse view of the matter , Richard raised his brow . 
Dimly a new light broke in upon him . 
shouted Richard , stung by the taunt , and set his sight hard at the blue ridges of the hills . 
The picture , though his intentions were far from designing it so , had to Richard , whose perception of humour was infinitely keener , a horrible chaw-bacon smack about it . 
It was a genial strife of the Angel in him with constituents less divine : but the Angel was uppermost and led the van : extinguished loathing : humanized laughter : transfigured Pride -- Pride that would persistently contemplate the corduroys of gaping Tom , and cry to Richard , in the very tone of Adrian 's ironic voice : ` Behold your benefactor ! ' 
Little of it was perceptible in Richard 's countenance . 
The lines of his mouth were slightly drawn ; his eyes still hard set into the distance . 
He remained thus many minutes . 
Finally he jumped to his legs , saying , `` I 'll go at once to old Blaize , and tell him . '' 
Farmer Blaize was not so astonished at the visit of Richard Feverel , as that young gentleman expected him to be . 
For farmer Blaize was a solid Englishman , and on hearing from the Baronet a frank confession of the hold he had on the family , he determined to tighten his hold , and only relax it in exchange for tangible advantage : compensation to his pocket , his wounded person , and his still more wounded feelings : the total indemnity being , in round figures , three hundred pounds , and a spoken apology from the prime offender , young Mister Richard . 
He was considering whether they were a deep , or a shallow , lot , when young Richard was announced . 
She was introduced to Richard as the farmer 's niece , Lucy Desborough , the daughter of a lieutenant in the Royal Navy , and , what was better , though the farmer did not pronounce it so loudly , a real good girl . 
Neither the excellence of her character , nor her rank in life , tempted Richard to inspect the little lady . 
He made an awkward bow , and sat down . 
Richard did not know them , and , by his air , did not desire to become acquainted with any offshoot of that family . 
Richard 's intention had been to come to the farmer 's threshold : to summon the farmer thither , and in a loud and haughty tone then and there to take upon himself the whole burden of the charge against Tom Bakewell . 
Richard saw and heard Arson in it all . 
He blinked harder , as he neared the cup . 
In a moment of silence , he seized it with a gasp . 
said Richard firmly . 
Richard reiterated . 
cried Richard , starting up . 
Richard was mounting the white cockade of the Feverels . 
He held out his clenched fist . 
Richard , disdaining to shows signs of being pacified , angrily reseated himself . 
Here was the same bitter cup he had already once drained , brimming at Richard 's lips again ! 
`` I should be very much obliged , '' Richard formally began : but his stomach was turned ; he could but sip and sip , and gather a distaste which threatened to make the penitential act impossible . 
`` Very much obliged , '' he repeated : `` much obliged , if you would be so kind , '' and it struck him that had he spoken this at first , he would have given it a wording more persuasive with the farmer and more worthy of his own pride : more honest , in fact : for a sense of the dishonesty of what he was saying , caused him to cringe and simulate humility to deceive the farmer , and the more he said , the less he felt his words , and feeling them less , he inflated them more . 
Richard dashed at it again . 
and with the words burning in his ears , Richard swallowed the dose : `` Well , then ! 
To do farmer Blaize justice , he waited very patiently for the boy , though he could not quite see why he did not take the gate at the first offer . 
said he , when he heard and had pondered on the request : `` Hum ! 
Richard declared . 
`` My father knows nothing of it , '' replied Richard . 
Richard had not the slightest intention of ever letting his father into his counsels . 
No consideration of the extent of damages , and the size of the sum , affected young Richard , who said boldly , `` He will not object to pay it , when I tell him . '' 
The farmer threw an objectionable shrewdness into his query , that caused Richard to compress his mouth and glance high . 
quoth Richard , with the loftiness of a patriot of old Rome . 
Thrust in a corner , Richard said , `` I did it . '' 
In build of body , gait , and stature , Giles Jinkson , the Bantam , was a tolerably fair representative of the Punic Elephant , whose part , with diverse anticipations , the generals of the Blaize , and Feverel , forces , from opposing ranks , expected him to play . 
The Bantam jerked a bit of a bow to his patron , and then swung round , fully obscuring him from Richard . 
Richard fixed his eyes on the floor , while the Bantam in rudest Doric commenced his narrative . 
Knowing what was to come , and thoroughly nerved to confute the main incident , Richard barely listened to his barbarous locution : but when the recital arrived at the point where the Bantam affirmed he had seen `` T 'm Baak 'll wi 's owen hoies , '' Richard faced him , and was amazed to find himself being mutely addressed by a series of intensely significant grimaces , signs , and winks . 
`` A see T 'm Baak 'll , '' the Bantam recommenced , and again the contortions of a horrible wink were directed at Richard . 
The boy might well believe this churl was lying , and he did , and was emboldened to exclaim , `` You never saw Tom Bakewell set fire to that rick ! '' 
`` I tell you , '' said Richard , `` I put the lucifers there myself ! '' 
The suborned elephant was staggered . 
He meant to telegraph to the young gentleman that he was loyal and true to certain gold-pieces that had been given him , and that in the right place and at the right time , he should prove so . 
Why was he thus suspected ? 
Why was he not understood ? 
This brought down on him the farmer , who roared , `` Thought ! 
Richard put in . 
replied Richard , `` I have not seen him before . '' 
Farmer Blaize looked vacantly at Richard , as if to ask him what he thought of England 's peasantry after the sample they had there . 
Richard would have preferred not to laugh , but his dignity gave way to his sense of the ludicrous , and he let fly an irrepressible peal . 
He grew very puffy , and addressed Richard solemnly : `` Now , look ye here , Mr. Feverel ! 
The Bantam 's been bribed , '' and he shivered his pipe with an energetic thump on the table -- `` Bribed ! 
Richard inquired , with a grave face . 
Richard stood up , and replied , `` Very well , Mr. Blaize . '' 
`` It was not in consideration of my own safety that I sought this interview with you , '' said Richard , head erect . 
cried Richard with an astonishment hardly to be feigned , `` you have seen my father ? '' 
Richard did not see the analogy . 
He bowed stiffly and bade him good afternoon . 
Richard marched hastily out of the room , and through the garden , never so much as deigning a glance at his wistful little guide , who hung at the garden gate to watch him up the lane , wondering a world of fancies about the handsome proud boy . 
Young Richard had quitted his cousin Austin fully resolved to do his penance and drink the bitter cup ; and he had drunk it ; drained many cups to the dregs ; and it was to no purpose . 
Still they floated before him , brimmed , trebly bitter . 
Away from Austin 's influence , he was almost the same boy who had slipped the guinea into Tom Bakewell 's hand , and the Lucifers into Farmer Blaize 's rick . 
Richard , obscured as his mind 's eye was by wounded pride , saw that clearly , and hated his enemy for it the more . 
Heavy Benson 's tongue was knelling Dinner , as Richard arrived at the Abbey . 
He hurried up to his room to dress . 
Hastily combing his hair , Richard glanced down , and read : ` The Dog returneth to his Vomit : the Liar must eat his Lie . ' 
Young Richard ran downstairs feeling that his father had struck him in the face . 
He sought the youth 's eye , but Richard would not look , and sat conning his plate , an abject copy of Adrian 's succulent air at that employment . 
How could he pretend to the relish of an Epicure , when he was painfully endeavouring to masticate The Devil 's Mouthful ? 
Was not Hippias 's dream the very counterpart of Richard 's position ? 
He , had he looked narrowly , might have taken the clear path : he , too , had been making dainty steps till he was surrounded by the grinning blades . 
Richard fought against it , for the dignity of old Rebellion . 
Shamefully fast they began to fall . 
He could no longer conceal them , or check his sobs . 
Careless as one may be whose sagacity has foreseen , and whose benevolent efforts have forestalled , the point of danger at the threshold of his apprehensive fellows , Adrian crossed his legs , and only intruded on their introductory remarks so far as to hum half audibly at intervals , ` Ripton and Richard were two pretty men , ' in parody of the old Ballad . 
Young Richard 's red eyes , and the Baronet 's ruffled demeanour , told him that an explanation had taken place , and a reconciliation . 
Adrian summed and considered these matters , and barely listened when the Baronet called attention to what he had to say : which was , elaborately to inform all present what all present very well knew : that a rick had been fired : that his son was implicated as an accessory to the fact : that the perpetrator was now imprisoned : and that Richard 's family were , as it seemed to him , bound in honour to do their utmost to effect the man 's release . 
Young Richard looked up to his father , as if he wished to speak . 
`` I think I saw him last , '' murmured Richard , and relinquished his father 's hand . 
`` No , '' said Richard . 
Richard sidled away from his father , and repeated a shamefaced `` No . '' 
He feared that Richard had failed in his good resolve . 
`` I thought it his duty to go , '' he observed . 
They were attaching , in his opinion , too much importance to Richard 's complicity . 
Before he left the room , Algernon asked Richard if the farmer had vouchsafed any reasons , and the boy then spoke of the tampering with the witnesses , and the Bantam 's `` Not upon oath ! '' 
Remorsefully Richard saw his father go forth . 
`` No , he is n't , '' Richard corrected him . 
`` It 's I , Sir , '' said Richard , panting . 
said the Baronet , putting his arm about him . 
`` Go , and I will wait for you here , '' said his father . 
The wind that bowed the old elms , and shivered the dead leaves in the air , had a voice and a meaning for the Baronet , during that half-hour 's lonely pacing up and down under the darkness , awaiting his boy 's return . 
The solemn gladness of his heart gave Nature a tongue . 
Through the desolation flying overhead -- the wailing of the Mother of Plenty across the bareswept land -- he caught intelligible signs of the beneficent order of the universe , from a heart newly confirmed in its grasp of the principle of human goodness , as manifested in the dear child who had just left him : confirmed in its belief in the ultimate Victory of Good within us , without which Nature has neither music , nor meaning , and is rock , stone , tree , and nothing more . 
In the dark , the dead leaves beating on his face , he drew forth the Note-book , and with groping fingers traced out : ` There is for the mind but one grasp of Happiness : from that uppermost pinnacle of Wisdom , whence we see that this world is well-designed . ' 
He wrote to his friend Richard , proposing to collect disposable funds , and embark , in case of Tom 's breaking his word , or of accidental discovery . 
`` I remain `` Your sworn friend `` Richard Doria Feverel . 
It was a letter from the unhappy lady who had given Richard birth , -- brief cold lines , simply telling him his house would be disturbed by her no more . 
Like most who dealt with him , Lady Feverel thought her husband a man fatally stern and implacable , and she acted as silly creatures will act when they fancy they see a fate against them : she neither petitioned for her right , nor claimed it : she tried to ease her heart 's yearning by stealth , and now she renounced all . 
That infinitesimal dose of The World which Master Ripton Thompson had furnished to the System with such instantancous and surprising effect , was considered by Sir Austin to have worked well , and to be for the time quite sufficient , so that Ripton did not receive a second invitation to Raynham , and Richard had no special intimate of his own age to rub his excessive vitality against , and wanted none . 
Moreover , his father and he were heart in heart . 
The boy 's mind was opening , and turned to his father affectionately reverent . 
At this period , when the young savage grows into higher influences , the faculty of worship is foremost in him . 
He took care that good seed should be planted in Richard , and that the most fruitful seed for a youth , namely , Example , should be of a kind to germinate in him the love of every form of nobleness . 
`` I am only striving to make my son a Christian , '' he said , answering them who persisted in expostulating with the System . 
And to these instructions he gave an aim : `` First be virtuous , '' he told his son , `` and then serve your country with heart and soul . '' 
The youth was instructed to cherish an ambition for Statesmanship , and he and his father read History and the Speeches of British Orators to some purpose ; for one day Sir Austin found him leaning cross-legged and with his hand to his chin , against a pedestal supporting the Bust of Chatham , contemplating the Hero of our Parliament , his eyes streaming with tears . 
This was unjust , but there is no doubt he made use of every illustration to disgust , or encourage , his son , that his neighbourhood afforded him , and did not spare his brother , for whom Richard entertained a contempt in proportion to his admiration of his father , and was for flying into penitential extremes , which Sir Austin had to soften . 
`` He seems to be ashamed to , '' Richard replied . 
''' `` I will , Sir , '' said Richard , and went to sleep happy . 
Happy in his father and in himself the youth now lived . 
Conscience was beginning to inhabit him , and he carried some of the freightage known to men ; though in so crude a form that it overweighed him , now on this side , now on that . 
Richard had a drill-serjeant from the nearest barracks down for him , to give him a proper pride in himself , and marched him to and fro with immense satisfaction , and nearly broke his heart trying to get the round-shouldered rustic to take in the rudiments of letters : for the boy had unbounded hopes for Tom , as a hero in grain . 
Richard 's pride also was cast aside . 
He affected to be , and really thought he was , humble . 
cries Richard in scorn , and for weeks he was as troubled by this rudiment of self-knowledge as Tom by his letters . 
Richard informed her that when she read he could . 
`` Well , then , my Squire , '' she touched his cheek and ran her fingers through his hair , `` learn as quick as you can not to be all hither and yon with a hundred different attractions , as I was before I met a wise man to guide me . '' 
Richard asked . 
`` Do you -- '' Richard broke forth , and was stopped by a beating of his heart . 
They frequently approached this theme , and always retreated from it ; always with the same beating of heart to Richard , accompanied by the sense of a growing Mystery , which however did not as yet generally disturb him . 
Life was made very pleasant to him at Raynham , as it was part of Sir Austin 's principle of education , that his boy should be thoroughly joyous and happy ; and whenever Adrian sent in a satisfactory report of his pupil 's advancement , which he did pretty liberally , diversions were planned , just as prizes are given to diligent school-boys , and Richard was supposed to have all his desires gratified , while he attended to his studies . 
If Richard had his followers , he had also his feuds . 
The Papworths were as subservient as Ripton , but young Ralph Morton , the nephew of Mr. Morton , and a match for Richard in numerous promising qualities , comprising the noble science of fisticuffs , this youth spoke his mind too openly , and moreover would not be snubbed . 
There was no middle course for Richard 's comrades between high friendship , or absolutely slavery . 
He was deficient in those cosmopolite habits and feelings which enable boys and men to hold together without caring much for each other ; and , like every insulated mortal , he attributed the deficiency , of which he was quite aware , to the fact of his possessing a superior nature . 
Young Ralph was a lively talker : therefore , argued Richard 's vanity , he had no intellect . 
He was affable : therefore he was frivolous . 
The women liked him : therefore he was a butterfly . 
Early in the days of their contention for leadership , Richard saw the absurdity of affecting to scorn his rival . 
Finding that manoeuvre would not do , Richard was prompted once or twice to entrench himself behind his greater wealth , and his position ; but he soon abandoned that also , partly because his chilliness to ridicule told him he was exposing himself , and chiefly that his heart was too chivalrous . 
And so he was dragged into the lists by Ralph , and experienced the luck of champions . 
For cricket , and for diving , Ralph bore away the belt : Richard 's middle-stump tottered before his ball , and he could seldom pick up more than three eggs under-water to Ralph 's half-dozen . 
Stung by his defeats , Richard sent one of his dependent Papworths to Poer Hall , with a challenge to Ralph Barthrop Morton ; matching himself to swim across the Thames and back , once , twice , or thrice , within a less time than he , Ralph Barthrop Morton , would require for the undertaking . 
It was accepted , and a reply returned , equally formal in the trumpeting of Christian names , wherein Ralph Barthrop Morton acknowledged the challenge of Richard Doria Feverel , and was his man . 
In so doing , and just as the start was given , a bonnet became visible to Richard . 
They saw him suddenly catch his hand to his side , and hesitate . 
The result of the match was unaccountable to all present , and Richard 's friends unanimously pressed him to plead a false start . 
But though the youth , with full confidence in his better style and equal strength , had backed himself heavily against his rival , and had lost his little river-yacht to Ralph , he would do nothing of the sort . 
Richard gave up his companions , servile , or antagonist : he relinquished the material world to young Ralph , and retired into himself , where he was growing to be lord of kingdoms : where Beauty was his Handmaid , and History his Minister , and Time his ancient Harper , and sweet Romance his Bride : where he walked in a realm vaster and more gorgeous than the great Orient , peopled with the heroes that have been . 
Added to this , Sir Austin told Lady Blandish , that Richard had , at his hest , done what no poet had ever been known to be capable of doing : he had , with his own hands , and in cold blood , committed his virgin Manuscript to the flames : which made Lady Blandish sigh forth , `` Poor boy ! '' 
For a youth in his Blossoming Season , who fancies himself a poet , to be requested to destroy his first-born , without a reason -LRB- though to pretend a reason cogent enough to justify the request were a mockery -RRB- , is a piece of abhorrent despotism , and Richard 's blossoms withered under it . 
Richard 's spirit stood bare . 
Enough that it could be wished ! 
Desiring his father to follow him , he went to a drawer in his room , and from a clean-linen recess , never suspected by Sir Austin , the secretive youth drew out bundle after bundle : each neatly tied , named , and numbered : and despicably pitched them into the flames . 
Mrs. Doria 's maternal heart had betrothed the two cousins , Richard and Clare ; had already beheld them espoused , and fruitful . 
Love of that kind , Richard took for tribute . 
The parting kiss he gave her was ready and cold as his father could desire , and Sir Austin had hardly slept overnight for thinking of the effect it might have on the Magnetic youth . 
He caressed his son as if Richard had done something virtuous . 
Compensation his boy should have for any trifling crosses to his feelings . 
He should have yachts , horses , whatever he fancied . 
Sir Austin now grew eloquent to him in laudation of manly pursuits : but Richard thought his eloquence barren , his attempts at companionship awkward , and all manly pursuits and aims , life itself , vain and worthless . 
sighed the blossomless youth , and cried aloud , as soon as he was relieved of his father 's society , what was the good of anything ? 
Whatever he did -- whichever path he selected , led back to Raynham . 
And whatever he did , and however wretched and wayward he showed himself , only confirmed Sir Austin more and more in the truth of his previsions . 
She will be a happy girl who calls Richard , husband . '' 
`` But where shall I meet one equal to him , and his match ? '' 
`` Would you have thought her worthy of Richard ? '' 
`` Richard is my son . '' 
Richard is my boy , '' she reiterated . 
Sir Austin most graciously appended : `` Call him ours , Madam , '' and held his head as if to catch the word from her lips , which , however , she chose to refuse , or defer . 
It concerned Richard 's nuptials . 
He was now nearly eighteen . 
He was to marry when he was five-and-twenty . 
Meantime a young lady , some years his junior , was to be sought for in the homes of England , who would be every way fitted by education , instincts , and blood -- on each of which qualifications Sir Austin unreservedly enlarged -- to espouse so perfect a youth and accept the honourable duty of assisting in the perpetuation of the Feverels . 
Show me among them a God-fearing family who educate their children -- I should prefer a girl without brothers and sisters -- as a Christian damsel should be educated -- say , on the model of my son , and she may be penniless , I will pledge her to Richard Feverel . '' 
`` And what do you do with Richard while you are absent on this expedition ? '' 
said the Baronet , `` he accompanies his father . '' 
`` Then give it up . 
How can he care for her ? 
He thinks more at his age of old women like me . 
All night Richard tossed on his bed with his heart in a rapid canter , and his brain bestriding it , traversing the rich untasted world , and the great Realm of Mystery , from which he was now restrained no longer . 
Months he had wandered about the gates of the Bonnet , wondering , sighing , knocking at them , and getting neither admittance nor answer . 
He had the key now . 
His own father had given it him . 
His heart was a lightning steed , and bore him on and on over limitless regions bathed in superhuman beauty and strangeness , where cavaliers and ladies leaned whispering upon close green swards , and knights and ladies cast a splendour upon savage forests , and tilts and tourneys were held in golden Courts lit to a glorious day by ladies ' eyes , one pair of which , dimly visioned , constantly distinguishable , followed him through the boskage and dwelt upon him in the press , beaming while he bent above a hand glittering white and fragrant as the frosted blossom of a May-night . 
Awhile the heart would pause and flutter to a shock : he was in the act of consummating all earthly bliss by pressing his lips to the small white hand . 
cried the Magnetic Youth : to fling the Jewel of Life into that one cup , and drink it off ! 
For that he was born . 
to kiss a woman 's hand , and die ! 
He would leap from the couch , and rush to pen and paper to relieve his swarming sensations . 
Scarce was he seated , when the pen was dashed aside , the paper sent flying , with the exclamation , `` Have I not sworn I would never write again ? '' 
Possibly the pride even of Richard Feverel had been swamped if the act of composition were easy at such a time , and a single idea could stand clearly foremost ; but myriads were demanding the first place ; chaotic hosts , like ranks of stormy billows , pressed impetuously for expression , and despair of reducing them to form , quite as much as pride , to which it pleased him to refer his incapacity , threw down the powerless pen , and sent him panting to his outstretched length and another headlong career through the rosy-girdled land . 
Towards morning the madness of the fever abated somewhat , and he went forth into the air . 
A lamp was still burning in his father 's room , and Richard thought , as he looked up , that he saw the ever-vigilant head on the watch . 
Had he cast a second glance at his own chamber , he might then have seen the ever-vigilant head on the watch . 
No doubt his conscious eye looked inward , and knew ; but he chose to juggle with it , and say to himself , that not an hour must be lost in betrothing Richard , and holding him bond to virtue , and therefore he would immediately depart on his expedition . 
The pain of not folding the beloved son to his breast before he went , was moreover a fortunate beguilement of the latent dread that his going just now was a false step . 
Richard took to it instinctively . 
The clear fresh water , burnished with sunrise , sparkled against his arrowy prow : the soft deep shadows curled smiling away from his gliding keel . 
Overhead solitary morning unfolded itself , from blossom to bud , from bud to flower ; still delicious changes of light and colour , to whose influences he was heedless as he shot under willows and aspens , and across sheets of river-reaches , pure mirrors to the upper glory , himself the sole tenant of the stream . 
Somewhere at the founts of the world lay the land he was rowing towards : something of its shadowed lights might be discerned here and there . 
It was not a dream , now he knew . 
Heartily wishing him abed with the rest of mankind , Richard rowed in and jumped ashore . 
That he had to say seemed to be difficult of utterance , and Richard , though he barely listened , soon had enough of his old rival 's gladness at seeing him , and exhibited signs of impatience ; whereat Ralph , as one who branches into matter somewhat foreign to his mind , but of great human interest and importance , put the question to him : `` I say , what woman 's name do you like best ? '' 
`` I do n't know any , '' quoth Richard indifferently . 
Richard agreed that it might be : the housekeeper at Raynham , half the women cooks and all the housemaids enjoyed that name : the name of Mary was equivalent for woman at home . 
Richard thought it just like another . 
Richard had never been acquainted with any for them to inspire that emotion . 
Indeed these urgent appeals to his fancy in feminine names at five o'clock in the morning , slightly surprised him , though he was but half awake to the outer world . 
By degrees he perceived that Ralph was quite changed . 
Gradually , too , Richard apprehended that Ralph likewise was on the frontiers of the Realm of Mystery , perhaps further towards it than he himself was ; and then , as by a sympathetic stroke , was revealed to him the wonderful beauty and depth of meaning in feminine names . 
But the hardship was that Richard could choose none from the number ; all were the same to him ; he loved them all . 
`` Not better than the names ending in ` a ' and ` y ' , '' Richard replied , wishing he could , for Ralph was evidently ahead of him . 
In a few days he would have to join his regiment , and before he left he must say good bye to his friends ... would Richard tell him Mrs. Forey 's address ? 
Richard did not remember the address , but said he would willingly take charge of any letter and forward it . 
`` My aunt 's name is not Clare , '' said Richard , perusing what was composed of the exterior formula . 
`` Not so good as Clara , '' said Richard . 
Richard meditated unwittingly : `` I suppose we like the names of the people we like best . '' 
`` Emmeline Clementia Matilda Laura , Countess Blandish , '' Richard continued in a low tone , transferring the names , and playing on them like musical strings . 
`` I 'm certain , '' said Richard , as he finished his performance , `` I 'm certain we like the names of the people we like best . '' 
And having made this great discovery for himself , he fixed his eyes on blushing Ralph . 
The moment Ralph was hidden by an abutment of the banks , Richard reperused the address . 
He read the words again and again : Clare Doria Forey . 
Doria , too : she shared his own name with him . 
Away went his heart , not at a canter now , at a gallop , as one who sights the quarry . 
Sliding with the tide , he heard it fluting in the bosom of the hills . 
Richard sprang from his boat into the water . 
Pressing a hand beneath her foot , which she had thrust against the crumbling wet sides of the bank to save herself , he enabled her to recover her balance , and gain safe earth , whither , emboldened by the incident , touching her finger 's tip , he followed her . 
The world lay wrecked behind him : Raynham hung in mists , remote , a phantom to the vivid reality of this white hand which had drawn him thither away thousands of leagues in an eye-twinkle . 
... The youth looked on her with as glowing an eye . 
Before her playfully-imperative injunction was fairly spoken , Richard had glanced at the document , and discovered a Griffin between Two Wheatsheaves : his Crest , in silver : and below , O wonderment immense ! 
As they walked silently across the meadow , Richard strove to remember the hour , and the mood of mind , in which he had composed the notable production . 
The stars were invoked , as seeing , and foreseeing , all , to tell him where then his love reclined , and so forth ; Hesper was complacent enough to do so , and described her in a couplet : ` Through sunset 's amber see me shining fair , As her blue eyes shine through her golden hair . ' 
Here were two blue eyes , and golden hair ; and by some strange chance , that appeared like the working of a divine finger , she had become the possessor of the prophecy , she that was to fulfil it ! 
Richard 's boat , meanwhile , had contrived to shoot the weir , and was swinging , bottom upwards , broadside with the current down the rapid backwater . 
`` Yes . '' 
he replied , and low , as if he spoke in the core of his thought : `` What do I care for it now ? '' 
His old life was whirled away with it , dead , drowned . 
`` And will you go , and not tell me who you are ? '' 
he asked , growing bold as the fears of losing her came across him : `` And will you not tell me before you go , '' his face burned , `` how you came by that -- that paper ? '' 
quoth Richard , as if he had to touch his brain to recollect there was such a place . 
She tripped him a soft curtsey . 
said his mouth , while his eyes added , `` O wonderful creature ! 
she peered at him archly from a side bend of the flapping brim . 
A light broke in on him . 
That little girl I saw there ! '' 
She could no more laugh off the piercing fervour of his eyes . 
Her volubility fluttered under his deeply wistful look , and now neither voice was high , and they were mutually constrained . 
Richard , with his eyes still intently fixed on her , returned : `` You are very beautiful ! '' 
Her overpowering beauty struck his heart , and like an instrument that is touched and answers to the touch , he spoke . 
Miss Desborough made an effort to trifle with this terrible directness : but his eyes would not be gainsaid , and checked her lips . 
Praise so passionately spoken , and by one who has been a damsel 's first dream , dreamed of nightly many long nights , and clothed in the virgin silver of her thoughts in bud , praise from him is coin the heart can not reject , if it would . 
That he should think so were too dreadful . 
She gave him her whole sweet face . 
`` Indeed , I must , '' she said , pulling at the obnoxious broad brim of her hat ; and , interpreting a pause he made for his assent to her sensible resolve , shyly looking at him , she held her hand out , and said , `` Good-bye , '' as if it were a natural thing to say . 
It was the hand whose shadow , cast before , he had last night bent his head reverentially above , and kissed -- resigning himself thereupon over to execution for payment of the penalty of such daring : by such bliss well rewarded . 
`` Good bye , '' she said again , as frankly as she could , and at the same time slightly compressing her fingers on his in token of adieu . 
It was a signal for his to close firmly upon hers . 
Mechanically he drew the white hand nearer his thumping heart . 
`` Do you -- do you wish to go ? '' 
A fainter , Yes , responded to his passionate repetition . 
`` You wish -- wish to leave me ? '' 
From him to her it coursed , and back from her to him . 
His mind flutters to Mrs. Doria : Richard blushes before the vision of Lucy : and Ralph , whose heroine 's hair is a dark luxuriance , dissents , and claims a noble share in the slaughter of men for dark-haired Wonders . 
at some future date Richard will be happy to see you at Raynham . '' 
Why , you are the very woman for him , Ma'am . 
It 's one of the strong-minded he 's after . 
And let me tell you in confidence , that the value of his mines is increasing , Ma'am . 
You need n't be afraid about his crotchets . 
Feverel has his eye on the main chance as well as the rest of us . '' 
I said to my wife the other day -- she was talking something in that way -- and I said to her , If Feverel had five hundred , instead of fifty thousand , a-year -- he 's got that clear , Ma'am , and it 'll double -- how about his principles then ? 
He calls her by her name , Lucy : and she , blushing at her great boldness , has called him by his , Richard . 
`` O Richard ! '' 
`` O Richard ! 
Richard 's absence annoyed him . 
The youth was vivacious , and his enthusiasm good fun ; and besides , when he left table , Adrian had to sit alone with Hippias and the Eighteenth Century , from both of whom he had extracted all the amusement that could be got , and he saw his digestion menaced by the contagious society of two ruined stomachs , who bored him just when he loved himself most . 
By this time Adrian and Richard were laughing uncontrollably . 
`` I fancy , Uncle , you have swallowed a Fairy , '' says Richard . 
`` Can my Uncle , '' Richard meditates , his eyes on Hippias 's weazened face , `` ever have been , as my father says , happy , and like other men ? 
Love had once piped even to Hippias in dewy shade . 
Adrian leans to Richard , and bids the blush-mantled youth mind he does not swallow his Fairy , or he may have a similar unbewitching fear upon him on the awful occasion . 
Richard cocks his ear . 
His hour has struck . 
His Heaven awaits him in the wood , and he is off . 
He gave Richard half-an-hour 's start , and then put on his hat to follow his own keen scent , leaving Hippias and the Eighteenth Century to piquet . 
In the lane near Belthorpe he met a maid of the farm not unknown to him , one Molly Davenport by name , a buxom lass , who , on seeing him , invoked her Good Gracious , the generic Maid 's Familiar , and was instructed by reminiscences vivid , if ancient , to giggle . 
He composed several epistles of warning to the Baronet of the work that was going on ; but before sending one , he wished to record a little of their guilty conversation ; and for this purpose the faithful fellow nightly trotted over the dews to eavesdrop , and thereby aroused the Good Fairy , in the person of Tom Bakewell , the sole confidant of Richard 's state . 
Richard , in a fury , bade him name the wretch , and Tom hung his arms , and aped the respectable protrusion of the butler 's head . 
cried Richard . 
Richard averred he would forgive anything but that , and told Tom to be within hail tomorrow night -- he knew where . 
According to custom , Richard started up and off , with few excuses . 
Still they may have thought that , by meeting Richard and his innamorata , there was a chance of laying a foundation of ridicule to sap the passion . 
The lady said she would have an interview with Richard , and then write , as it was her duty to do . 
Adrian shrugged , and was for going into the scientific explanation of Richard 's conduct , in which the lady had to discourage him . 
At their tryst in the wood abutting on Raynham Park , wrapped in themselves , piped to by tireless Love , Richard and Lucy sat , toying with the eternal moments . 
Whoever had been about Richard since his birth , she must know the history of , and he for a kiss will do her bidding . 
Richard ! '' 
`` My Richard ! '' 
and you make me -- Oh , Lucy ! '' 
Presently Lucy murmurs : `` Your father , Richard . '' 
`` Dearest Richard ! 
I feel so afraid of him . '' 
`` He loves me , and will love you , Lucy . '' 
`` But I am so poor and humble , Richard . '' 
Ah , Richard ! 
`` Think , Richard , who I am . '' 
`` Ah , Richard ! 
`` I hope Richard will treat him as he deserves , '' she said . 
As Richard rowed the boat , Lucy sung to him softly . 
She sang first a fresh little French song ; reminding him of a day when she had been asked to sing to him before , and he did not care to hear . 
`` Did I live ? '' 
Then she sang to him a bit of one of those majestic old Gregorian chaunts , that , wherever you may hear them , seem to build up cathedral walls about you . 
`` Which is your room , Richard ? '' 
`` Oh , Richard ! 
you will have mine , Richard . '' 
Oh , Richard ! 
`` You will be sure to be there , Richard ? '' 
`` Oh , Richard ; pray , pray do not speak of that . 
cried Richard . 
They were stealing away , when he called . 
Lucy entreated Richard to go to him , but the young man preferred to summon his attendant Tom from within hail , and send him to know what was wanted . 
said Richard . 
You have not spoken of him tonight , Richard . 
Is he good ? '' 
Richard clutched her hand for the innocent maiden phrase . 
`` He 's very fond of eating ; that 's all I know of Adrian . '' 
Her hand was at his lips when Tom returned . 
Think , Richard ! '' 
Richard made his way to Adrian . 
Richard had turned to the cypress , and was tugging at the tough wood . 
`` Make this beast get up , '' Richard returned , breathing hard , and shaking his great ash-branch . 
Richard clamoured like a savage . 
`` He has written to my father , '' Richard shouted . 
-- Cavernous noises took up the tale of his maltreatment . 
Richard stood over him with folded arms , grasping his great stick : no dawn of mercy for Benson in any corner of his features . 
Adrian took Richard aside : `` You 've almost killed the poor devil , Ricky . 
`` The coward bobbed while I struck , '' said Richard . 
With a whirr that made all Benson 's bruises moan and quiver , the great ash-branch shot aloft , and Richard swung off to intercept Lady Blandish . 
Lady Blandish met Richard in dismay . 
`` Only some one doing justice on a spy , '' said Richard , and the lady smiled , and looked on him fondly , and put her hand through his hair . 
The Wise Youth 's hint had the desired effect on Richard . 
He dashed off a hasty letter by Tom to Belthorpe , and , mounting his horse , galloped to the Bellingham station . 
But when Richard , inarticulate at first , in his haste , cried out : `` My dear , dear father ! 
Instead of replying , Richard dropped into a chair , and seized his hand , and kissed it , murmuring again , that he thanked God . 
Richard broke out . 
It was not an attack of real apoplexy ? '' 
His father 's brows contorted , and he said , No , it was not . 
Richard pursued . 
`` It has given you an appetite for dinner , I hope , '' said the Baronet , not so well pleased to find that it was not simple obedience that had brought the youth to him in such haste . 
`` I 'm ready , '' replied Richard . 
I will leave Cassandra in your charge for a rest . '' 
His father quietly helped him to soup , which he commenced gobbling with an eagerness that might pass for appetite . 
`` I love the old place , '' cried Richard . 
Richard laughed , and related his bewilderment at the miles of brick , and the noise , and the troops of people : concluding : `` There 's no place like home ! '' 
The Baronet watched his symptomatic brilliant eyes , and favoured him with a double-dealing sentence : `` To anchor the heart by any object , ere we have half traversed the world , is Youth 's Foolishness , my son . 
thought Richard , and instantly drew away leagues from his father , and threw up fortifications round his love and himself . 
Dinner over , Richard looked hurriedly at his watch , and said , with much briskness , `` I shall just be in time , Sir , if we walk . 
Richard was going to repeat the question , but found his father 's eyes fixed on him so meaningly , that he wavered , and played with his empty glass . 
The Baronet then drew within arm 's - reach of his son , and began : `` I am not aware what you may have thought of me , Richard , during the years we have lived together : and indeed , I have never been in a hurry to be known to you : and , if I had died before my work was done , I should not have complained at losing half my reward , in hearing you thank me . 
I shall be content , if you prosper . '' 
Richard fingered at his watch . 
And you come upon it laden equally with force to create and to destroy . '' 
The Baronet gravely repeated his last sentence . 
The young man heard the whistle of the train . 
He saw the moon-lighted wood , and the vision of his beloved . 
Oh , if he knew Lucy ! 
`` But , '' and the Baronet gazed on Richard intently , `` it is given to very few to meet them on the threshold . 
The Baronet put his hand to his brow as his mind travelled into Consequences . 
Richard loved his father , and even in his frenzied state he could not without emotion hear him thus speak . 
Unhappily , the Baronet , who by some fatality never could see when he was winning the battle , thought proper in his wisdom to water the dryness of his sermon with a little jocoseness , on the subject of young men fancying themselves in love , and , when they were raw and green , absolutely wanting to be -- that most awful thing , which the wisest and strongest of men undertake in hesitation and after self-mortification and penance -- married ! 
He sketched the Foolish Young Fellow -- the object of general ridicule and covert contempt . 
He sketched the Woman -- the strange thing made in our image , and with all our faculties -- passing to the rule of one who in taking her proved that he could not rule himself , and had no knowledge of her save as a choice morsel which he would burn the whole world , and himself in the bargain , to possess . 
Closing his sermon with the question , softly uttered : `` Have you anything to tell me , Richard ? '' 
Richard turned his back on further dialogue by going to the window . 
The moon was rising : the woods were lifting up to her : his star of the woods would be there . 
A bed of moss set about flowers in a basket under him breathed to his nostril of the woodland keenly , and filled him with delirious longing . 
A succession of great sighs brought his father 's hand on his shoulder . 
-- Tell me , Richard ! 
`` Nothing at all , Sir , '' the young man replied , meeting him with the full orbs of his eyes . 
The Baronet withdrew his hand , and paced the room . 
At last it grew impossible for Richard to control his impatience , and he said : `` Do you intend me to stay here , Sir ? 
I should be down with him in little better than three hours . '' 
`` Well , I could stable him in the village . 
Dowling knows the horse , and would treat him properly . 
-- May I have him , Sir ? '' 
The cloud cleared off Richard 's face as he asked . 
At least , if he missed his love that night , he would be near her , breathing the same air , marking what star was above her bed-chamber , hearing the hushed night-talk of the trees about her dwelling : looking on the distances that were like Hope half-fulfilled and a bodily presence bright as Hesper , since he knew her . 
Richard overrode every objection . 
`` Well , then , my son , '' said the Baronet , preserving his half-jocular air , `` I must tell you that it is my wish to have you in town . '' 
cried Richard , as in his despair he seized the whole plot . 
`` I have been as well as you could have desired me to be , '' said his father . 
`` I think , Richard , you can best answer that , '' rejoined Sir Austin , kindly severe . 
Dread of being signalized as the Foolish Young Fellow prevented Richard from expostulating further . 
For three weeks Richard had to remain in town and endure the teachings of the System in a new atmosphere . 
He had to sit and listen to men of science who came to renew their intimacy with his father , and whom of all men his father wished him to respect and study : practically scientific men being , in the Baronet 's estimation , the only minds thoroughly mated , and enviable . 
He had to endure an introduction to the Grandisons , and meet the eyes of his kind , haunted as he was by the Foolish Young Fellow . 
To Richard the scenes he witnessed were strange wild pictures , likely if anything to have increased his misanthropy , but for his love . 
said Richard , `` at all events I 'm not afraid of you . 
She seriously shook her curls , and looked up at him . 
Richard shouted with laughter . 
`` But what do you want to be ? '' 
At this Richard laughed again , and took to the young woman . 
Within five minutes he had all the secrets of the family . 
Richard gave her permission to call him what she pleased . 
`` Well , then , Richard -- if you do n't really mind . 
Richard , with all the muscles of his face in play , lamented the severe restriction . 
If I call you Richard , you 'll call me Carl , wo n't you ? 
said Richard . 
said Richard . 
Richard complimented her by saying , he thought she would grow to be a very handsome chap . 
Carola assured him , she could not think it . 
sighed poor Richard . 
-- Richard ! '' 
`` Because '' -- he bent down and put his hand on her neck -- `` because , because -- well ! 
Mind you always do , Richard ! 
Richard informed her , he had never been to one in his life , which caused lively astonishment to Miss Carl . 
I should say , ` Dear Richard ! 
Richard looked down on her with something like veritable affection . 
Almost every turn in the artless little maid 's prattle touched a new mood in him , and beguiled away his melancholy . 
`` That would just do , '' he said . 
Clementina cantered to join them , bowing distantly to Richard , as if anything like familiarity involved the fate of her adored hussar . 
After this conversation with the daughter of a System , Richard informed his father that he thought girls were very like boys . 
`` I think they are , '' said his father . 
`` When they much prefer riding strideways , '' said Richard , and repeated some of his young friend 's remarks , which his father evidently thought charming , and chuckled over frequently . 
Suddenly they ceased ; and now Richard fell into such despondency that his father in alarm had to take measures to hasten their return to Raynham . 
At the close of the third week Berry laid a pair of letters , bearing the Raynham postmark , on the breakfast-table , and after reading one attentively the Baronet asked his son if he was inclined to quit the metropolis . 
cried Richard , and relapsed , saying , `` As you will ! '' 
aware that he had given a glimpse of the Foolish Young Fellow . 
Allow me to congratulate you on having found Richard 's Unripe Half in good condition , and rosy . 
Richard is the God of her idolatry . 
She will renounce him , and sacrifice herself for his sake . 
She asked me , where in the world was there one like Richard ? 
I hope he is really calm . 
I shudder to think of him when he comes , and discovers what I have been doing . 
I hope Richard really is beginning to take an interest in the child . 
-- '' Something , no doubt , the Baronet had in store for her , and possibly the lady 's instinct made her meditate the day when Richard should be ` launched through the surf ' in earnest . 
He trifled with the letter for some time , re-reading chosen passages as he walked about the room , and considering he scarce knew what . 
Why did he twice throw a look into the glass in the act of passing it ? 
Why did he for a moment stand with erect head facing it ? 
His eyes for the nonce seemed little to peruse his outer features : the grey-gathered brows and the wrinkles , much action of them had traced over the circles half up his high straight forehead : the iron-grey hair that rose over his forehead and fell away in the fashion of Richard 's plume . 
His general appearance showed the tints of years , but none of their weight , and nothing of the dignity of his youth was gone . 
It was so far satisfactory , but his eyes were wide , as one who looks at his essential self through the mask we wear . 
Perhaps he was speculating as he looked , on the sort of aspect he presented to the lady 's discriminative regard . 
Of her feelings he had not a suspicion . 
But he knew with what extraordinary lucidity women can , when it pleases them , and when their feelings are not quite boiling under the noonday sun , seize all the sides of a character , and put their fingers on its weak point . 
Richard eyed it while they flew along . 
It caught him forward : it seemed full of the spirit of his love , and brought tears of mournful longing to his eyelids . 
The sad beauty of that one spot in the heavens seemed to call out to his soul to swear to his Lucy 's truth to him : was like the sorrowful visage of his fleur-de-luce , as he called her , appealing to him for faith . 
At that moment had Sir Austin spoken openly , Richard might have fallen upon his heart . 
He could not . 
He chose to feel injured on the common ground of fathers , and to pursue his System by plotting . 
Lady Blandish had revived his jealousy of the creature who menaced it , and jealousy of a System is unreflecting and vindictive as jealousy of woman . 
Richard stood a moment as he stepped from the train , and drew the country air into his lungs with large heaves of the chest . 
Leaving his father to the felicitations of the Station-Master , he went into the Lobourne road to look for his faithful Tom , who had received private orders through Berry to be in attendance with his young master 's mare , Cassandra , and was lurking in a plantation of firs unenclosed on the borders of the road , where Richard , knowing his retainer 's zest for conspiracy too well to seek him anywhere but in the part most favoured with shelter and concealment , found him furtively whiffing tobacco . 
cried Richard , imperatively . 
Thus Richard learnt the news . 
said Richard huskily . 
Hereat the tears unconsciously streamed down Richard 's cheeks . 
Richard paused to discover whether his instinct had caught a new view from these facts . 
Night had come on as Richard entered the old elm-shaded , grass-bordered , lane leading down from Raynham to Belthorpe . 
The wind had tossed up the bank of western cloud , which was now flying broad and unlighted across the sky , broad and balmy , -- the charioted South-west at full charge behind his panting coursers . 
As he neared the farm his heart fluttered and leapt up . 
Why should she have left for good without writing ? 
He caught suspicion by the throat , making it voiceless , if it lived : he silenced Reason . 
Her not writing was now a proof she had returned . 
He listened to nothing but his imperious passion , and murmured sweet words for her , as if she were by : tender cherishing epithets of love in the nest . 
She was there , -- she moved somewhere about like a silver flame in the dear old house doing her sweet household duties . 
By some extraordinary process he contrived to cast a sort of glory round the burly person of farmer Blaize himself . 
Richard 's trance was broken . 
`` Mr. Blaize ! '' 
Richard dismounted . 
Once there Richard 's conjurations ceased . 
The walls he touched -- these were the vacant shell of his divinity . 
He had never been in the house since he knew her , and now , what strange sweetness , and what pangs ! 
-- He 's al ` ays at that ther ' Folly now , '' the farmer addressed Richard , as he of the seraph 's bliss sullenly cast the Fashions among the musk-pots , and stumped off mumbling unintelligible grumblings . 
A blush went over Richard : he was thinking -- ` Is this the chair she sat in ? ' 
-- She seemed to put her arms about him , and say , ` Suppose I have gone ? 
it is not , '' Richard now spoke . 
`` You seem very lonely here , '' said Richard , glancing round , and at the ceiling . 
Richard resumed : `` I hardly expected to see you tonight , Mr. Blaize . '' 
The thing implied by the farmer 's words caused Richard to take a quick breath . 
To this portrait Richard 's eyes were directed . 
Richard moderated his voice to praise the likeness . 
Richard asked in as careless a tone as he could assume . 
said Richard , growing bolder to speak of her . 
`` Mr. Blaize , '' Richard turned to face him , and burst out , `` where is she ? '' 
`` Mr. Blaize , '' Richard leaned forward to get closer to him . 
He was stunned , and hardly aware of what he was saying or doing : `` Where has she gone ? 
A blind inclination to take offence made Richard sit upright . 
cried Richard . 
Richard began to scent the plot , and would not be baulked . 
`` Then you refuse me , farmer , '' said Richard . 
He complimented Richard personally , but young people were young people : Baronets ' sons were not in the habit of marrying farmers ' nieces . 
Richard caught what seemed to him a glimpse of encouragement in these signs , and observed : `` It 's not because you object to me , Mr. Blaize ? '' 
`` It 's because my father is against me , '' Richard went on , and undertook to show that love was so sacred a matter that no father could entirely and for ever resist his son 's inclinations . 
Richard nodded , and watched the operations while the farmer filled , and lighted , and began to puff , as if his fate hung on them . 
Richard waited for him , and then he laid down the pipe altogether as no aid in perplexity , and said , after leaning his arm on the table and staring at Richard an instant : `` Look , young gentleman ! 
Richard 's impetuosity had made him really afraid of speaking his notions concerning the projected felicity of young Tom , if indeed they were serious . 
The farmer repeated that he had no more to say , and Richard with , `` Wait till the spring ! 
dinning despair in his ears , stood up to depart . 
A maid rushed by Richard in the passage , and slipped something into his grasp , which fixed on it without further consciousness than that of touch . 
Farmer Blaize requested Richard at the gate to give him his hand , and say all was well . 
He liked the young man for his earnestness and honest outspeaking . 
Richard could not say all was well , but he gave his hand , and knit it to the farmer 's in a sharp squeeze , when he got upon Cassandra , and rode into the tumult . 
`` Take the mare , '' said Richard , dismounting and patting her between the eyes . 
Three days would bring the anniversary of Richard 's birth , and though Tom was close , the condition of the mare , and the young gentleman 's strange freak in riding her out all night becoming known , prepared everybody at Raynham for the usual bad-luck birthday , the prophets of which were full of sad gratification . 
But while his son was in this state , Sir Austin considered that he would hardly be brought to see the virtues of the act , and did not make the requisition of him , and heavy Benson remained drawn up solemnly expectant at doorways , and at the foot of the staircase , a Saurian Caryatid , wherever he could get a step in advance of the young man , while Richard heedlessly passed him , as he passed everybody else , his head bent to the ground , and his legs bearing him like random instruments of whose service he was unconscious . 
He decreed that Richard 's erratic behaviour should pass unnoticed . 
To which Richard said : `` Have whom you will , Sir . '' 
On the birthday eve he dined with the rest . 
Lady Blandish was there , and sat penitently at his right . 
`` Then you must do it , '' said Richard , just waking up , and for want of something to say . 
After dinner Richard left them . 
Nothing more than commonly peculiar was observed about him , beyond the excessive glitter of his eyes , but the Baronet said , `` Yes , yes ! 
that would pass . '' 
cried Richard , `` there 's not a moment to be lost ! '' 
The lady had accompanied him to the Bellingham Inn on first hearing of Richard 's seizure . 
To him Richard 's passion was an ill incident to the ripeness of his years , and his perfect innocence ; and this crisis the struggle of the poison passing out of him -- not to be deplored . 
He was so confident that he did not even send for Dr. Bairam . 
The old Doctor did admit that Richard 's constitution was admirable , and answered to his prescriptions like a piano to the musician . 
`` But , '' he said , at a family consultation , for Sir Austin had told him how it stood with the young man , `` drugs are not much in cases of this sort . 
The wonderful change in Richard , and the wisdom of her admirer , now positively proved , were exciting matters to Lady Blandish . 
She was rebuked for certain little rebellious fancies concerning him that had come across her enslaved mind from time to time . 
For was he not almost a prophet ? 
It distressed the sentimental lady that a love like Richard 's could pass off in mere smoke , and words such as she had heard him speak in Abbey-wood resolve to emptiness . 
For how should he know , and dare to say , that Love was a thing of the dust that could be trodden out under the heel of Science ? 
But he had said so , and he had proved himself right . 
She heard with wonderment that Richard of his own accord had spoken to his father of the folly he had been guilty of , and had begged his pardon . 
The Baronet told her this , adding that the youth had done it in a cold unwavering way , without a movement of his features : had evidently done it to throw off the burden of the duty he had conceived , and thereafter passed by . 
He had thought himself bound to acknowledge that he had been the Foolish Young Fellow , wishing , possibly , to abjure the fact by an act of penance . 
send him to Wales , Sir , for a month , and let Richard go with him . 
`` Unfortunately I ca n't do without him , '' said the Baronet . 
`` Then we must continue to have him on our shoulders all day , and on our chests all night ! '' 
`` I think while he preserves this aspect , we wo n't have him at the dinner-table , '' said the Baronet . 
Adrian thought that would be a relief to their digestions ; and added : `` You know , Sir , what he says ? '' 
`` You must pardon a faithful fool , Sir , '' he continued , for the Baronet became red , and exclaimed : `` His stupidity is past belief ! 
I have absolutely to bolt my study-door against him . '' 
What had so horrified the virtuous Benson , Richard had already beheld in Daphne 's Bower ; a simple kissing of the fair white hand ! 
The first kindled Richard to adore Woman : the second destroyed Benson 's faith in Man . 
He read to her the secret book in his own handwriting , composed for Richard 's Marriage Guide : containing Advice and Directions to a Young Husband , full of the most tender wisdom , and delicacy : so she thought : nay , not wanting in poetry , though neither rhymed nor measured . 
This prelude was necessary to the present chapter of Richard 's history . 
It happened that in the turn of the year , and while old Earth was busy with her flowers , the fresh wind blew , the little bird sang , and Hippias Feverel , the Dyspepsy , amazed , felt the Spring move within him . 
He communicated his delightful new sensations to the Baronet , his brother , whose constant exclamation with regard to him , was : `` Poor Hippias ! 
All his machinery is bare ! '' 
and had no hope that he would ever be in a condition to defend it from view . 
Nevertheless Hippias had that hope , and so he told his brother , making great exposure of his machinery to effect the explanation . 
He spoke of all his physical experiences exultingly , and with wonder . 
The achievement of common efforts , not usually blazoned , he celebrated as mighty triumphs , and , of course , had Adrian on his back very quickly . 
Richard alone was decently kind to Hippias ; whether from opposition , or real affection , could not be said , as the young man was mysterious . 
He told Richard he must give up going about with him : people telling of their ailments made him so uncomfortable -- the birds were so noisy , pairing -- the rude bare soil sickened him . 
`` Besides , '' said Hippias , `` it 's singular , but at this time of the year , Richard , I always have the same idea . 
Richard treated him with a gravity equal to his father 's . 
Do you happen to have heard of any new remedy then , Richard ? 
Do you know , Richard , my dear boy , I 've often thought that if we could by any means appropriate to our use some of the extraordinary digestive power that a Boa Constrictor has in his gastric juices , there is really no manner of reason why we should not comfortably dispose of as much of an ox as our stomachs will hold , and one might eat French dishes without the wretchedness of thinking what 's to follow . 
We distrust each other in this world too much , Richard . 
said Richard coolly regarding him . 
`` So people say , '' quoth Richard . 
Hippias looked at him anxiously : `` If I go to town and get the Doctor 's opinion about trying a new course -- Eh , Richard ? 
Enjoy ourselves , '' and Hippias rubbed his hands . 
Richard smiled at the feeble glimmer of enjoyment promised by his Uncle 's eyes , and said he thought it better they should stay where they were , -- an answer that might mean anything . 
Hippias immediately became possessed by the beguiling project . 
He went to the Baronet , and put the matter before him , instancing Doctors as the object of his journey , not quacks , of course ; and requesting leave to take Richard . 
Sir Austin was getting uneasy about his son 's manner . 
It was not natural . 
His heart seemed to be frozen : he had no confidences : he appeared to have no ambition -- to have lost the virtues of youth with the poison that had passed out of him . 
He was disposed to try what effect a little travelling might have on him , and had himself once or twice hinted to Richard that it would be good for him to move about ; the young man quietly replying that he did not wish to quit Raynham at all ; which was too strict a fulfilment of his father 's original views in educating him there entirely . 
He also suggested that it would be advisable to carry Richard to town for a term , and let him know his position , and some freedom . 
He was pretty certain that Richard 's passion was consumed , and that he was now only under the burden of its ashes . 
He had found against his heart , at the Bellingham Inn , a great lock of golden hair . 
The Baronet laid it in Richard 's sight one day , and beheld him take it up , turn it over , and drop it down again , calmly as if he were handling any common curiosity . 
It pacified him on that score . 
The Baronet determined that Richard should go . 
Hippias and Adrian then pressed their several suits as to which should have him . 
Hippias , when he could forget himself , did not lack sense . 
He observed that Adrian was not at present a proper companion for Richard , and would teach him to look on life from the false point . 
returned Hippias , not thinking that his growl had begotten a phrase . 
His brother smiled with gratification , and applauded him loudly : `` Excellent ! 
And this reflection inclined him not to let his son be alone with Adrian . 
He gave Richard his choice , who saw which way his father 's wishes tended , and decided so to please him . 
The day was fixed for Richard to depart , and the day came . 
Madam The Eighteenth Century called him to her chamber and put into his hand a fifty-pound note , as her contribution towards his pocket expenses . 
He did not want it , he said , but she told him he was a young man , and would soon make that fly when he stood on his own feet . 
The old lady did not at all approve of the System in her heart , and she gave her grand-nephew to understand that , should her require more , he knew where to apply , and secrets would be kept . 
His father presented him with a hundred pounds , which also Richard said he did not want -- he did not care for money . 
`` Spend it or not , '' said the Baronet , perfectly secure in him . 
All he desired of him was , to go and see the Grandisons , and give his love to little Carola . 
`` I wonder how my cabbage-rose is looking , '' Richard remarked . 
`` Well , she cried about you , '' said the Baronet , content to hear his son add : `` Poor little thing ! '' 
Richard having been , as it were , pollarded by Despotism , was now to grow up straight , and bloom again , in complete independence , as far as he could feel . 
So did this Sage decree : and we may pause a moment to reflect how wise were his previsions , and how successful they must have been , had not Fortune , the great foe to human cleverness , turned against him . 
Adrian rode between Richard and Hippias to the Bellingham station , and vented his disgust on them after his own humorous fashion , because it did not rain and damp their ardour . 
Richard he treated as a new instrument of destruction about to be let loose on the slumbering Metropolis ; Hippias as one in an interesting condition : and he got so much fun out of the notion of these two journeying together , and the mishaps that might occur to them , that he esteemed it almost a personal insult for his hearers not to laugh . 
But you will see at the Ballet , that you are quite in error about women at present , Richard . 
Mystery is woman 's redoubtable weapon , O Richard of the Ordeal ! 
''' `` I will send you an early copy , Adrian , when I publish , '' quoth Richard . 
Hippias quavered , looking up from the usual subject of his contemplation , and trying to take an interest in him , `` fine old fellow ! '' 
`` As you please , my dear Adrian , '' says Richard , and points out larch-buds to his Uncle , as they ride by the young green wood . 
`` You do the blackbird well , '' said Richard , and looked at him in a manner mildly affable . 
`` You 're a young man of wonderful powers , '' he emphatically observed ; meaning to say that Richard quite beat him : for which opinion Richard gravely thanked him , and with this they rode into Bellingham . 
Richard , as he was dismounting , heard Adrian say to the Baronet : `` The Beast , Sir , appears to be going to fetch Beauty ; '' but he paid no heed to the words . 
The Baronet , Lady Blandish , and Adrian , remained on horseback , and received Richard 's adieux across the palings . 
The train came up , and Richard stepped after his uncle into one of the carriages . 
Now surely there will come an Age when the presentation of Science at war with Fortune and the Fates , will be deemed the true Epic of modern life ; and the aspect of a Scientific Humanist who , by dint of incessant watchfulness , has maintained a System against those active forces , can not be reckoned less than sublime , even though at the moment he but sit upon his horse , on a fine March morning such as this , and smile wistfully to behold the son of his heart , his System incarnate , wave a serene adieu to tutelage , neither too eager nor morbidly unwilling to try his luck alone for a term of two weeks . 
The cause for Richard 's laughter was simple enough . 
Hippias , on finding the carriage-door closed on him , became all at once aware of the bright-haired Hope who dwells in Change , for one who does not woo her too frequently ; and to express his sudden relief from mental despondency at the amorous prospect , the Dyspepsy bent and gave his hands a sharp rub between his legs : which unlucky action brought Adrian 's pastoral , ` Hippy verteth , Sing cuckoo ! ' 
in such comic colours before Richard , that a demon of laughter seized him . 
Every time he glanced at his Uncle the song sprang up , and he laughed so immoderately that it looked liked madness come upon him . 
cried Richard . 
Hippias not only came above - ground , he flew about in the very skies , verting like any blithe creature of the season . 
He remembered old legal jokes , and anecdotes of Circuit ; and Richard laughed at them all , but more at him -- he was so genial , and childishly fresh , and innocently joyful at his own transformation , while a lurking doubt in the bottom of his eye now and then , that it might not last , and that he must go underground again , lent him a look of pathos and humour which tickled his youthful companion irresistibly , and made his heart warm to him . 
`` I tell you what , Uncle , '' said Richard . 
Hippias assumed a mysterious sadness , and remarked : -- `` They say , I 've heard , Richard , that it rather injures the digestion . '' 
sighed Hippias , alluding to the vast literary fame he had aforetime dreamed : `` I hope I shall have a good night tonight . '' 
Hippias grunted , `` I dare say , Richard , you sleep the moment you get into bed ! '' 
`` And if you 'll put yourself in my hands , '' Richard continued , `` you shall do just as I do . 
You shall , upon my honour , Uncle ! '' 
He specified the hours of devotion to his Uncle 's recovery -- no less than twelve a day -- that he intended to expend , and his cheery robustness almost won his Uncle to leap up recklessly and clutch Health as his own . 
`` Love ruins us , my dear boy , '' he said , thinking to preach Richard a lesson , and Richard boisterously broke out : `` The love of Monsieur Francatelli , It was the ruin of -- et coetera ! 
laughed Richard . 
`` Largest heart ! '' 
But do n't go parading your admiration of that person , Richard . 
`` I thought they had quarrelled , '' said Richard . 
and he murmured to a pleased ear : ``` Beauty 's for the largest heart ! 
Richard examined their faces with pleasure . 
All faces pleased him . 
Human nature sat tributary at the feet of him and his Golden Bride . 
As he could not well talk his thoughts before them , he looked out at the windows , and enjoyed the changing landscape , projecting all sorts of delights for his old friend Ripton , and little Carola , and musing hazily on the wondrous things he was to do in the world ; of the great service he was to be of to his fellow-creatures . 
In the midst of his reveries he was landed in London . 
A glance told Richard that his squire had something curious on his mind , and he gave Tom the word to speak out . 
Richard asked . 
Richard turned away , and was seized by Hippias , who begged him to get out of the noise and pother , and caught hold of his slack arm to bear him into a conveyance ; but Richard , by wheeling half to the right , or left , always got his face round to the point where young Tom was manoeuvring to appear at his ease . 
Richard then angrily asked his driver what he was waiting for . 
`` Where 's your colour . '' 
He laughed oddly , and made a random answer that he hoped the fellow would drive fast . 
`` I hate this slow motion after being in the Railway , '' he said . 
Hippias assured him there was something the matter with him . 
said Richard , looking fiercely candid . 
They say , that when the skill and care of men rescue a drowned wretch from extinction , and warm the flickering spirit into steady flame , such pain it is , the blood forcing its way along the dry channels , and the heavily-ticking nerves , and the sullen heart -- the struggle of Life and Death in him -- grim Death relaxing his gripe : such pain it is , he cries out no thanks to them that pull him by inches from the depths of the dead River . 
And he who has thought a love extinct , and is surprised by the old fires , and the old tyranny , he rebels , and strives to fight clear of the cloud of forgotten sensations that settle on him : such pain it is , the old sweet music reviving through his frame , and the charm of his passion fixing him afresh . 
Still was fair Lucy the One woman to Richard . 
He had forbidden her name but from an instinct of self-defence . 
Must the maids of baser metal dominate him anew , it is in Lucy 's shape . 
Thinking of her now so near him -- his darling ! 
all her graces , her sweetness , her truth -- for , despite his bitter blame of her , he knew her true -- swam in a thousand visions before his eyes : visions pathetic , and full of glory , that now wrung his heart , and now elated it . 
Richard stopped the cab , saying he wanted to speak to Tom , and would ride with him the rest of the journey . 
Richard allowed no time for salutations . 
was all he asked . 
For answer Ripton handed him Mrs. Berry 's card . 
Richard took it , and left him standing there . 
Richard came a little in advance , leading and half-supporting a figure in a black-silk mantle and small black-straw bonnet : young -- that was certain , though she held her veil so close he could hardly catch the outlines of her face : girlishly slender , and sweet and simple in appearance . 
Presently Richard returned to him , and said hurriedly : `` I want you now to go to my uncle , at our hotel . 
Ripton feebly attempted to reply that he was due at home . 
He was very curious to hear the plot of the New Comedy : and besides , there was Richard 's face questioning him sternly and confidently for signs of unhesitating obedience . 
He finished his grimaces by asking the name and direction of the hotel . 
Richard pressed his hand . 
It was only when he stood on the doorstep of Richard 's hotel , that his jocund mood was a little dashed by remembering that he had then to commence the duties of his office , and must fabricate a plausible story to account for what he knew nothing about -- a part that the greatest of Sages would find it difficult to perform . 
By fine degrees , beyond the reach of art , Ripton ventured to grow circumstantial , saying that Richard 's case was urgent and required immediate medical advice ; and that both he and his father were of opinion Richard should not lose an hour in obtaining it . 
`` He 's dreadfully alarmed about himself , '' said Ripton , and tapped his chest , and threw up his lips and brows . 
Hippias protested he had never heard a word from his nephew of any physical affliction . 
Algernon Feverel and Richard came in while he was hammering at the Alphabet to recollect the first letter of the Doctor 's name . 
he asked , significantly plucking at Richard 's fingers . 
Richard was all abroad at the question . 
Richard sought in turn the countenances of all present , and settled upon Ripton 's with a ludicrous stare . 
Algernon clapped him on the back . 
The solid thump awakened him to see matters as they were . 
the Doctor ! '' 
he said , smiling frankly at his lieutenant . 
-- Uncle , '' he came forward to Hippias , `` I hope you 'll excuse me for running off as I did . 
Hippias emphatically did not remember , and he did not believe the story . 
Irritation at the mad ravishment of his pill-box rendered him incredulous . 
As he had no means of confuting his nephew , all he could do safely to express his disbelief in him , was to utter petulant remarks on his powerlessness to appear at the dinner-table that day : upon which -- Berry just then trumpeting dinner -- Algernon seized one arm of the Dyspepsy , and Richard another , and the laughing couple bore him into the room where dinner was laid , Ripton sniggering in the rear , the really happy man of the party . 
Richard would have it ; and his gaiety , his by-play , his princely superiority to truth and heroic promise of overriding all our Laws , his handsome face , the lord and possessor of Beauty that he looked , as it were a star shining on his forehead , gained the old complete mastery over Ripton , who had been , mentally at least , half patronizing him till then , because he knew more of London and life , and was aware that his friend now depended upon him almost entirely . 
Richard observed that Ripton 's father seemed doubtful . 
Richard made a playful remark on the necessity of sometimes acting in opposition to fathers . 
in certain cases , '' said Richard . 
`` Rip will tell you , '' said Richard , deferentially signalling the lawyer . 
Ripton disguised his excessive uneasiness under endeavours to right his position on his chair , and , inwardly praying speed to the claret-jug to come and strengthen his wits , began with a careless aspect : `` Oh , nothing ! 
and Ripton took a long breath to relieve himself after his elaborate fiction . 
while Richard , whose features were grim with suppressed laughter , bade the narrator continue . 
Ripton lunged for the claret-jug . 
He had got an old lady like an oppressive bundle on his brain , and he was as helpless as she was . 
In the pangs of ineffectual authorship , his ideas shot at her wig , and then at her one characteristic of extreme obstinacy , and tore back again at her wig , but she would not be animated . 
Law-studies seemed light in comparison with this tremendous task of changing an old lady from a doll to a human creature . 
She -- Richard knows her better than I do -- an old lady -- somewhere down in Suffolk . 
Algernon took him up . 
The luckless fictionist looked straight at his pitiless leader , and blurted out dubiously : `` She -- there 's a daughter . '' 
Richard shouted : `` Bravo , Uncle ! '' 
`` So somebody does , '' Ripton received his impetus . 
`` And they 're found in Town together , '' he made a fresh jerk . 
A -- the point is , '' he now brightened and spoke from his own element , `` the point is whether the marriage can be annulled , as she 's of the Catholic persuasion and he 's a Protestant , and they 're both married under age . 
Having come to the point he breathed extreme relief , and saw things more distinctly ; not a little amazed at his leader 's horrified face . 
The two elders were making various absurd inquiries , when Richard sent his chair to the floor , crying : `` What a muddle you 're in , Rip ! 
Yes -- She -- a -- her cabbages '' -- `` Here , come along , '' Richard beckoned to him savagely . 
`` I 'll be back in five minutes , Uncle , '' he nodded coolly to either . 
Richard dropped a helper to the intelligence into his hand , and warned him not to gossip much of London . 
said Richard , as soon as they were in the street . 
Richard had gone off in a muse at the picture . 
said Richard . 
and away he went , compelling Ripton to the sort of strides a drummer-boy has to take beside a column of grenadiers . 
Richard ran to her and caught her hands : `` She 's well ? 
She wept : `` Oh , Richard ! 
She faltered : `` Oh , Richard ! 
Oh , Richard ! '' 
Oh , Richard ! '' 
`` Oh , my own Richard ! '' 
Him , however , it was Richard 's object to avoid , so they fell to , and Ripton no longer envied Hippias in bed . 
said Richard , in the quiet Sunday streets . 
`` When I 'm -- when this is over , I 'll see that they are , too -- as many as I can make happy , '' said the Hero : adding softly : `` Her blind was down at a quarter to six . 
I think she slept well ! '' 
`` Will she see me , Ricky ? '' 
`` Yes . 
She 'll see you today . 
Richard assured him that privilege would be his . 
`` Here , '' he said , coming under some trees in the park , `` here 's where I talked to you last night . 
`` You 'll soon -- '' Ripton darkly winked ; but his Chief looked uninstructed , and he branched into the converse of daylight . 
On the way , that Richard might have an exalted opinion of him , he hinted decorously at a somewhat intimate and mysterious acquaintance with the sex . 
said his Chief , `` why do n't you marry her ? '' 
He was again deposited in Mrs. Berry 's charge for a term that caused him dismal fears that the Fair Persian still refused to show her face , but Richard called out to him , and up Ripton went , unaware of the transformation he was to undergo . 
`` No , Richard ! '' 
From the Gardens , in contempt of Ripton 's frowned protest , Richard boldly struck into the Park , where solitary carriages were beginning to perform the circuit . 
Here Ripton had some justification for his jealous pangs . 
They fixed a spell upon his courage ; for somehow the youth had always ranked them as emblems of our nobility , and hearing two exquisite eye-glasses , who had been to front and rear several times , drawl in gibberish generally imputed to lords , that his heroine was a charming little creature , just the size , but had no style , -- he was abashed ; he did not fly at them and tear them . 
Richard appeared to hear nothing , or it was homage that he heard . 
Richard turned to face the matter . 
`` Sorry I could n't wait for you this morning , Uncle , '' he said , with the coolness of relationship . 
`` I thought you never walked so far . '' 
Algernon examined the downcast visage at his side , and contrived to allude to the popular preacher . 
All that passed between them on the subject comprised a stammered excuse from Ripton for his conduct , and a good-humoured rejoinder from Richard , that he had gained a sister by it : at which Ripton ventured to wish aloud Miss Desborough would only think so , and a faint smile twitched poor Lucy 's lips to please him . 
Richard whispered . 
Ripton fiercely accused his prodigious stupidity . 
The lover flung down his knife and fork : `` What could I do ? 
Ripton affected a serene mind : `` It was a fright , Richard , '' he said . 
It 's this , Richard ! 
I think she fears me . '' 
He dropped his face in his hands . 
Ripton went to the window , repeating energetically for his comfort : `` It 's because you 've got a fool for your friend ! '' 
Ripton saw himself no more in the opposite window . 
He watched the deplorable objects passing on the pavement . 
His aristocratic visions had gone like his breakfast . 
Beauty had been struck down by his egregious folly , and there he stood -- a Wretch ! 
Richard came to him : `` Do n't mumble on like that , Rip ! '' 
you 're very kind , Richard , '' interposed the Wretch , moved at the face of misery he beheld . 
Ripton suggested that it was sudden ; adding from his larger experience , people perhaps might talk . 
The lover could not understand what they should talk about , but he said : `` If I give him who came for her yesterday the clue ? 
I 'll find him at once . '' 
`` Suppose , '' the idea struck him , `` Suppose , Richard , she does n't want to go ? '' 
mused Richard . 
Richard vowed to her that he would henceforth hold it a duty to hunt out the Wanderer from wedded bonds , and bring him back , bound and suppliant . 
Regularly every morning a letter arrived from Richard to his father , containing observations on the phenomena of London ; remarks -LRB- mainly cynical -RRB- on the speeches and acts of Parliament ; and reasons for not having yet been able to call on the Grandisons . 
That cold dutiful tone assured him there was no internal trouble or distraction . 
`` The letters of a healthful physique ! '' 
Complacently he sat and smiled , little witting that his son 's Ordeal was imminent , and that his son 's Ordeal was to be his own . 
Hippias wrote that his Nephew was killing him by making appointments which he never kept , and altogether neglecting him in the most shameless way , so that his ganglionic centre was in a ten times worse state than when he left Raynham . 
He wrote very bitterly , but it was hard to feel compassion for his offended stomach . 
Towards the middle of the second week of Richard 's absence , Tom Bakewell came to Raynham for Cassandra , and privately handed a letter to the Eighteenth Century , containing a request for money , and a round sum . 
Richard Feverel was now crossing the River of his Ordeal . 
Already the mists were stealing over the land he had left : his life was cut in two , and he breathed but the air that met his nostrils . 
His father , his father 's love , his boyhood and ambition , were shadowy . 
His poetic dreams had taken a living attainable shape . 
Richard had seen much of early London that morning . 
His plans were laid . 
He had taken care to ensure his personal liberty against accidents , by leaving his hotel and his injured Uncle Hippias at sunrise . 
Today or tomorrow his father was to arrive . 
Another day and she might be torn from him : but today this miracle of creation would be his , and then from those glittering banks yonder , let them summons him to surrender her who dared ! 
And she , too -- since she must cross this River , she had sworn to him to be brave , and do him honour , and wear the true gladness of her heart in her face . 
So , without a suspicion of folly in his acts , or fear of results , Richard strolled into Kensington Gardens , breakfasting on the foreshadow of his great joy , now with a vision of his bride , now of the new life opening to him . 
A sound in his ears as of a banner unfolding in the joyful distance lulled him . 
He was to meet his bride at the Church at a quarter past eleven . 
His watch said a quarter to ten . 
Richard ejaculated inwardly . 
Richard came forward , and capitulated honourably , since retreat was out of the question . 
Mrs. Doria swam to meet him : `` My own boy ! 
My dear Richard ! '' 
Clare shyly greeted him . 
`` Why , we were coming for you today , Richard , '' said Mrs. Doria , smiling effusion ; and rattled on , `` We want another cavalier . 
Richard mechanically shook Adrian 's hand as he spoke . 
`` Yes : well enough , '' Richard answered . 
resumed his vigorous Aunt , walking on with him , while Clare and Adrian followed . 
`` Richard is looking very well , Mama , '' said Clare , glancing at him under her eyelids . 
-- Take my arm , Richard . 
Richard surveyed his cousin hastily , and praised her looks . 
`` Grown very much -- do n't you think , Richard ! '' 
`` If she had but a little more colour , my dear Richard ! 
She was accustomed to look up to you , Richard -- '' `` Did you get Ralph 's letter , Aunt ? '' 
Richard interrupted her . 
Mrs. Doria pressed his arm . 
`` I 'm certain he loves her , '' said Richard , in a serious way . 
The maternal eyes narrowed on him . 
`` Life , my dear Richard , is a game of cross-purposes , '' she observed , dropping her fluency , and was rather angered to hear him laugh . 
He excused himself by saying that she spoke so like his father . 
Mrs. Doria addressed his eyes coaxingly . 
A benevolent idea struck Richard , that he might employ the minutes to spare , in pleading the case of poor Ralph ; and , as he was drawn along , he pulled out his watch to note the precise number of minutes he could dedicate to this charitable office . 
Richard mildly replied that he had an engagement at a particular hour , up to which he was her servant . 
Overborne by his Aunt 's fluency of tongue , and occupied in acute calculation of the flying minutes , Richard let many pass before he edged in a word for Ralph . 
When he did , Mrs. Doria stopped him immediately . 
`` Men do n't speak openly of those things , '' said Richard . 
`` I never encourage absurdity , Richard . '' 
It 's not that absurdity , Richard . 
It will be to his credit to remember that his first fancy was n't a dairymaid . '' 
`` Do n't you want Clare ever to marry ? '' 
mutters Richard . 
Richard stopped short . 
`` I must go , '' he said . 
Richard is going . 
He says he has an engagement . 
`` Wo n't you stay with us , Richard ? '' 
Richard conceded this . 
She little imagined what she required of him . 
Two of his golden minutes melted into nothingness . 
They were growing to be jewels of price , one by one more and more precious as they ran , and now so costly-rare -- rich as his blood ! 
not to kindest relations , dearest friends , could he give another . 
`` Good bye ! '' 
They watched his abrupt muscular stride through the grounds of the house . 
She disentangled her bonnet from the array of her spreading hair , talking of Richard , and his handsome appearance , and extraordinary conduct . 
When I was walking behind Richard . '' 
`` Are you sure he did not give it you , Clare ? '' 
`` Oh no , Mama ! 
only he does such absurd things ! 
Mrs. Doria had an idea that it might have been concerted between the two young gentlemen , Richard and Ralph , that the former should present this token of hymeneal devotion from the latter to the young lady of his love ; but a moment 's reflection exonerated boys even from such preposterous behaviour . 
And , '' she laughed , `` offer it to Richard when he comes ; say , you think he must have dropped it . '' 
Mother and daughter had never spoken explicitly of Richard . 
It could do no harm to an obedient young girl to hear that there was no youth in the world like a certain youth . 
He the Prince of his generation , she might softly consent , when requested , to be his Princess ; and , if never requested -LRB- for Mrs. Doria envisaged failure -RRB- , she might easily transfer her softness to squires of lower degree . 
In the Chamber of Banquet Richard was giving Ripton his last directions . 
At times he half rose from his chair and fell vacuously into it again ; or he chuckled in the face of weighty , severely-worded , instructions ; tapped his chest , stretched his arms , yawned , and in short behaved so singularly that Richard observed it , and said : `` On my soul , I do n't think you know a word I 'm saying . '' 
Ripton stamped his might on the table . 
I shall tell him the whole affair pointblank . 
Richard arrested his resumption of speech , and he continued slowly to fizz like an ill-corked effervescence , while his Chief said : `` Look here . 
If he asks you about her , do n't be a fool , but say what you think of her sensibly -- '' No cork could hold in Ripton when she was alluded to . 
Richard checked him : `` Speak sensibly , I say -- quietly . 
Ripton again shouted : `` She 's an Angel ! '' 
He endeavoured to get a leap beyond the Angels , but being of tame imagination those commonplace hosts had to stand for what he felt . 
Throwing up the heels of his second bottle , he said : `` You may trust your friend , Richard . 
Richard hospitably opened another bottle for him , and sat knocking his finger-nails on his teeth , impatient for the bride , while Ripton freely flowed forth . 
In spite of the innocuousness of claret , his words were displaying an oily tendency to run into one another , and his eyes were growing vivaciously stupid . 
`` Strikes me , Richard , every fresh bottle 's better than one before . 
said Richard , just wetting his mouth . 
The carriage was at the door : a couple of dire organs , each grinding the same tune , and a vulture-scented itinerant band -LRB- from which not the secretest veiled Wedding can ever escape -RRB- worked harmoniously without in the production of discord , and the noise acting on his nervous state made him begin to fume and send in messages for his bride by the maid . 
Ripton drank Penelope , and afterwards had an idea that Penelope did not mean Lucy . 
He tried to tell Richard that the health proposed was that of his lovely wife , but Richard had no ear for him , and let him mumble on . 
Mrs. Berry was requested to drink some wine , which Ripton poured out for her , enabling Mrs. Berry thereby to measure his condition . 
Richard and Lucy talked apart . 
Ripton balanced his body against the back of his chair . 
A notion possessed his nodding head that it devolved upon him to make a formal speech , and that now was the time . 
If ever the Old Dog was to enunciate in human language his devoted appreciation of Beauty , the occasion was present . 
But how was he to fashion his phrases ? 
Notwithstanding the state he was in , his sincere homage caused him to be critical of his capabilities : and then his brain whirled : innumerable phantom forms of sentences with a promise of glowing periods , offered their heads to him , and immediately cut themselves off from all consequence , so that he was afraid to commence . 
Speaking , moreover , he found to affect his balance . 
It became a problem whether he should talk , or retain his perpendicular . 
His latent sense of propriety counselled him not to risk it , and he stood mute , looking like a Mask of ancient Comedy , beneath which general embracing took place . 
cries Richard . 
Ripton , his mouth drawn like a bow to his ears , brought up the rear to the carriage , receiving a fair slap on the cheek from an old shoe precipitated by Mrs. Berry 's enthusiastic female domestic . 
Richard chafed to be gone , but at his bride 's intercession he consented to wait . 
How Richard laughed at the Berry 's bridal gift ! 
Why 'n' t you put Richard 's crez ' on that Cake ? 
No Bar ` net Richard 's I know . 
he said , and filling another bumper he with cheerfully vinous articulation and glibness of tongue proposed the healths of Richard and Lucy Feverel , of Raynham Abbey ! 
and that mankind should not require an expeditious example of the way to accept the inspiriting toast , he drained his bumper at a gulp . 
It finished him . 
The farthing-rush-light of his reason leapt and expired . 
Some minutes subsequent to Ripton 's signalization of his devotion to the bridal pair , Mrs. Berry 's maid entered the room to say that a gentleman was inquiring below after the young gentleman who had departed , and found her mistress with a tottering wineglass in her hand , exhibiting every symptom of unconsoled hysteries . 
Adrian verified Richard 's descent . 
Richard has a great many friends who will rejoice to eat his Wedding-Cake . 
Thus : -- wonder at Master Richard 's madness : though he himself did not experience it , he was eager to mark the effect on his beloved relations . 
As he carried along his vindictive hunch of cake , he shaped out their different attitudes of amaze , bewilderment , horror ; passing by some personal chagrin in the prospect . 
For his patron had projected a journey this Summer , commencing with Paris , culminating on the Alps , and lapsing in Rome : a delightful journey to show Richard the highways of History and tear him from the risk of further ignoble fascinations , that his spirit might be altogether bathed in freshness and revived . 
This had been planned during Richard 's absence to surprise him . 
`` Then shall I tell Richard that you wo n't touch a morsel of his Cake ? '' 
`` Richard ? '' 
`` Yes , your nephew : my cousin : Richard ! 
Your companion since you 've been in Town . 
Married , and gone to spend his Honeymoon in the Isle of Wight : a very delectable place for a month 's residence . 
-- '' `` Richard married ! '' 
you were so anxious to have him in Town under your charge . 
`` Why , he 's under age ! 
`` So he is . 
This is our dear Richard 's Wedding-Cake . 
Married at half-past eleven this morning , by license , at the Kensington parish church : his own Ring being lost he employed the Ring of his beautiful bride 's lachrymose landlady , she standing adjacent by the altar . 
Much of the conversation adverted to Richard . 
Mrs. Doria asked him if he had seen the youth , or heard of him . 
The fact is , my cousin Richard got married to a dairymaid this morning , and I wanted to know whether it held . '' 
Nothing was heard more energetic than , `` Deuce he has ! '' 
where is Richard ? '' 
But when Adrian told her that Richard had left Town , her struggling hope sank . 
`` I think , '' she appeared to reflect , and then faltered imploringly to Adrian , `` What is Richard 's age ? '' 
well , then ... `` Brandon was resuming with a shrug which was meant to say he still pledged himself to nothing , when Clare 's voice was heard from out the buzzing circle of her cousins : `` Richard is nineteen years and six months old today , Mama . '' 
`` Yes , he is , Mama . '' 
`` Richard is one year and nine months older than me , Mama . '' 
or this : ' He knew not that I watched his ways . 
I thought he knew not I wore -- ' `` It 's that Clarence ! 
She took Clare to her bed , and caressed and wept over her , as she would not have done had she known the singular child , saying , `` Poor Richard ! 
we must save him , Clare ! 
we must save him ! '' 
She slept clasping Richard 's nuptial Ring . 
Richard Turpin went forth , singing : ` Money or life ' to the world : Richard Feverel has done the same , substituting Happiness for ` Money , ' frequently synonyms . 
The coin he wanted he would have , and was just as much a highway robber as his fellow Dick , so that those who have failed to recognize him as a Hero before , may now regard him in that light . 
Meanwhile the world he has squeezed looks exceeding patient and beautiful . 
His coin chinks delicious music to him . 
Richard was no longer the Richard of his creation : his pride and his joy : but simply a human being with the rest . 
Richard 's parting laugh in the train -- it was explicable now : it sounded in his ears like the mockery of this base nature of ours at every endeavour to exalt and chasten it . 
There by the springs of Richard 's future , his father sat : and the Devil said to him : `` Only be quiet : do nothing : resolutely do nothing : your object now is to keep a brave face to the world , so that all may know you superior to this human nature that has deceived you . 
Richard 's laugh , taken up by horrid reverberations , as it were through the lengths of the Lower Halls , replied . 
He sat at the springs of Richard 's future , in the forlorn dead-hush of his library there , hearing the cinders click in the extinguished fire , and that humming stillness in which one may fancy one hears the midnight Fates busily stirring their embryos . 
Think of him ... think of your dear boy ... Our Richard , as we have called him . 
... Tell me first you have forgiven him . '' 
`` No woman is too good for Richard , and you know it . '' 
`` Yes , I will speak only of him . 
We thought his love dead , and so did he till he saw her again . 
He met her , he thought we were plotting against him , he thought he should lose her for ever , and in the madness of an hour he did this . 
Lady Blandish dried her eyes as she knelt , and then joined him , and glanced up silently at Richard 's Moon standing in wane towards the West . 
She hoped it was because of her having been premature in pleading so earnestly , that she had failed to move him , and she accused herself more than the Baronet . 
But in acting as she had done , she had treated him as no common man , and she was compelled to perceive that his heart was at present hardly superior to the hearts of ordinary men , however composed his face might be , and apparently serene his wisdom . 
A short , quickblooded kiss , radiant , fresh , and honest , as Aurora , and then Richard says , without lack of cheer , `` No letter today , my Lucy ! '' 
whereat her sweet eyes dwell on him a little seriously , but he cries , `` Never mind ! 
and so saying he puts a hand beneath her chin , and seems to frame her fair face in fancy , she smiling up to be looked at . 
`` But one thing I do want to ask my darling , '' says Lucy , and dropped into his bosom with hands of petition . 
laughs Richard , hugging her , `` but , you know , you darling bit of a sailor , they do n't allow more than a certain number on board for the race , and if they hear you 've been with me , there 'll be cries of foul play ! 
she said , screwing her pliable brows up to him winningly , and he bent his cheek against hers , and murmured something delicious . 
she pouted to his flatteries . 
`` Am I so foolish , Richard ? '' 
Mr. Morton had once been intimate with the Baronet , but had given him up for many years as impracticable and hopeless , for which reason he was the more inclined to regard Richard 's misdemeanour charitably , and to lay the faults of the son on the father : and thinking society to be the one thing requisite to the young man , he had introduced him to the people he knew in the island : among others to the Lady Judith Felle , a fair young dame , who introduced him to Lord Mountfalcon , a puissant nobleman ; who introduced him to the yachtsmen beginning to congregate : so that in a few weeks he found himself in the centre of a brilliant company , and for the first time in his life tasted what it was to have free intercourse with his fellow-creatures of both sexes . 
Now the Baronet had so far compromised between the recurrence of his softer feelings and the suggestions of his new Familiar , that he had determined to act towards Richard with justness . 
The world called it magnanimity , and even Lady Blandish had some thoughts of the same kind when she heard that he had decreed to Richard a handsome allowance , and had scouted Mrs. Doria 's proposal for him to contest the legality of the marriage : but Sir Austin knew well he was simply just in not withholding money from a youth so situated . 
Consequently Richard did not want money . 
What he wanted more , and did not get , was a word from his father , and though he said nothing to sadden his young bride , she felt how much it preyed upon him to be at variance with the man whom , now that he had offended him and gone against him , he would have fallen on his knees to : the man who was as no other man to him . 
shouted Richard , and ran off to meet him , and never left his hand till he had hauled him up , firing questions at him all the way , to where Lucy stood . 
-- `` Is n't he an Angel ? '' 
`` Dear old Rady , '' said Richard , tugging at his hand again , `` how glad I am you 've come ! 
Richard fretted restlessly opposite his cool relative . 
cried Richard , and plunged in meditation . 
Soon the table was cleared , and laid out afresh , and Lucy preceded the maid bearing eggs on the tray , and sat down , unbonneted , and like a thorough-bred housewife , to pour out the tea for him . 
Richard likes them so . 
`` If Richard had told me ! 
`` We must n't expect him to pay attention to such matters , '' said Adrian , trying to smile . 
there are more eggs in the house , '' cried Richard , and pulled savagely at the bell . 
`` No , '' he said , `` I will be ruled by Richard 's tastes , and heaven grant me his digestion ! '' 
Lucy threw a sad look at Richard , who stretched on a sofa and left the burden of the entertainment entirely to her . 
`` He shall not think me timid and stupid , '' thought this brave girl , and indeed Adrian was astonished to find that she could both chat and be useful , as well as look ornamental . 
went Richard , and settled easily on his back . 
Richard exclaimed . 
said Richard , `` I wonder he does n't believe in magic . 
`` The Pilgrim has your notion , Richard . 
Whom does he not forestall ? 
` Confirmed Dyspepsia is the apparatus of illusions , ' and he accuses the Ages that put faith in sorcery , of universal Indigestion , which may have been the case , owing to their infamous Cookery . 
He says again , if you remember , that our own Age is travelling back to darkness and Ignorance through dyspepsia . 
Richard looked on at Lucy 's little triumph , attributing Adrian 's subjugation to her beauty and sweetness . 
said Richard . 
laughed Richard . 
groaned Richard . 
Richard got up and strode about the room . 
Then he bethought him it was time to go on board and make preparations . 
`` I 'm off , '' he said . 
Good bye , darling ! '' 
he whispered to Lucy , and his hand and eyes lingered on her , and hers on him , seeking to make up for the priceless kiss they were debarred from . 
But she quickly looked away from him as he held her : -- Adrian was silent : his brows were up , and his mouth dubiously contracted . 
`` Richard ! 
Adrian protested that she had much better go ; that he could amuse himself very well till their return , and so forth : but she had schemes in her pretty head , and held to it to be allowed to stay in spite of Lord Mountfalcon 's disappointment cited by Richard , and at the great risk of vexing her darling , as she saw . 
Richard pished , and glanced contemptuously at Adrian . 
-- `` Who could be ? '' 
he seemed as he looked up from her modest fondling to ask Adrian , and seized the indemnity of a kiss on her forehead , which , however , did not immediately disperse the shade of annoyance he felt . 
The yachts were started by pistol-shot by Lord Mountfalcon on board the Empress , and her little heart beat after Richard 's straining sails . 
Then there was the strangeness of walking with a relation of Richard 's , one who had lived by his side so long . 
If Richard suspects that his father objects for the present to welcome his daughter-in-law , hostilities will be continued , the breach will be widened , bad will grow to worse , and I see no end to it . '' 
Victory is the commonest heritage of the Hero , and when Richard came on shore proclaiming that the Blandish had beaten the Begum by seven minutes and three quarters , he was hastily kissed and congratulated by his bride with her fingers among the leaves of Dr. Kitchener , and anxiously questioned about wine . 
said Richard . 
And again she threw on him the cold water of that solicitude about wine . 
Richard put his hand to feel for the little heart : her eyelids softened , and she ran away . 
`` What Sandoe calls the passion-flower of Heaven , '' said Richard under his breath to Adrian , who was serenely chanting Greek hexameters , and answered , in the swing of the csura : `` He might as well have said cauliflower . '' 
All the spaces of the sky were alight , and Richard 's fancy flamed . 
Richard resumed . 
Of course I 'm very happy ... '' He did not finish . 
No Scientific Humanist was by to study the natural development , and guide him . 
She was five years older than he , and a woman , which may explain her serene presumption . 
said Richard . 
Lady Judith smiled , and only corrected his nonsense by saying , `` I think we must n't be too romantic . 
`` You do , '' said Richard earnestly : `` from what I hear : from what I know ! '' 
His thoughts flew off with him as knight-errant hailed shrilly at exceeding critical moments by distressed dames and damsels . 
Images of airy towers hung around . 
The one star grew larger , seemed to throb with lustre . 
His fancy crumbled with the towers of air , his heart gave a leap , he turned to Lucy . 
And as if to compensate her for his little knight-errant infidelity , he pressed very tenderly to her . 
`` Let us give it up to them , '' said Lady Judith to Richard . 
Richard appeared to have grown perfectly willing to give everything up to the fair face , his bridal Hesper . 
Next day Lucy had to act the coward anew , and as she did so , her heart sank to see how painfully it affected him that she should hesitate to go with him to his father . 
He was patient , gentle ; he sat down by her side to appeal to her reason , and used all the arguments he could think of to persuade her . 
`` No , no , Richard ; oh , dear no ! '' 
`` He does n't know my father at all , '' said Richard . 
She could not be won to imagine the Baronet a man of human mould , generous , forgiving , full of passionate love at heart , as Richard tried to picture him , and thought him , now that he beheld him again through Adrian 's embassy . 
she had heard Richard cry more than once . 
`` Well , I tell you I wo n't go without you , '' said Richard , and Lucy begged for a little more time . 
The South-west still joked boisterously at any comparison of the sort : the days were magnificent : Richard had yachting engagements : and Lucy always petitioned to stay to keep Adrian company , conceiving it her duty as hostess . 
If Richard hinted at his retaining Lucy , the Wise Youth would remark : `` It 's a wholesome interlude to your extremely Cupidinous behaviour , my dear boy . '' 
Richard asked his wife what they could possibly find to talk about . 
Richard laughed at the humble mind of his beauty . 
`` But he is one of your family , Richard . '' 
Richard in his hours of excitement was thrown very much with Lady Judith . 
He consulted her regarding what he termed Lucy 's cowardice . 
`` Then would you advise me to go up alone ? '' 
It was revolting to Richard . 
`` What I fear , '' he said , `` is that my father will make it smooth with me , and not acknowledge her : so that whenever I go to him , I shall have to leave her , and tit for tat -- an abominable existence , like a ball on a billiard-table . 
Unaccustomed to have his will thwarted , and urgent where he saw the thing to do so clearly , the young husband had spoken strong words : and she , who knew that she would have given her life by inches for him ; who knew that she was playing a part for his happiness , and hiding for his sake the nature that was worthy his esteem ; the poor little martyr had been weak a moment . 
Our Richard has just been elected member of a club for the promotion of nausea . 
Is he happy ? 
As much so as one who has had the misfortune to obtain what he wanted can be . 
Speed is his passion . 
My Lord looks shocked , Richard is angry with her for having to be ashamed of himself , Beauty dries her eyes , and after a pause of general foolishness , the business of life is resumed . 
Not a word did he say of Richard 's return , and for some reason or other neither Richard nor Lucy spoke of it now . 
The lady at last wrote to Richard . 
Then Richard , against his judgment , gave way . 
`` My father is not the man I thought him ! '' 
he exclaimed sadly , and Lucy felt his eyes saying to her : `` And you , too , are not the woman I thought you . '' 
Nothing could the poor little heart reply but strain to his bosom and pray in his arms sleeplessly all the night . 
Three weeks after Richard arrived in Town , his cousin Clare was married , under the blessings of her energetic mother , and with the approbation of her kinsfolk , to the husband that had been expeditiously chosen for her . 
Richard was told by Mrs. Doria that Clare had instantaneously consented to accept Mr. John Todhunter as lord of her days , and with more than obedience , -- with alacrity . 
At all events , when Richard spoke to Clare , the strange passive creature did not admit restraint on her inclinations . 
Mrs. Doria allowed Richard to speak to her . 
She laughed at his futile endeavours to undo her work , and the boyish sentiments he uttered on the subject . 
Richard made repeated journeys to Hounslow , where Ralph was quartered , and if Ralph could have been persuaded to carry off a young lady who did not love him , from the bridegroom her mother averred she did love , Mrs. Doria might have been defeated . 
To which Clare replied : `` I can not marry two husbands , Richard . '' 
She shrank a little at his vehemence , but neither blushed nor stammered ; answering : `` I see nothing wrong in doing what Mama thinks right , Richard . '' 
`` Dear Richard , '' said Clare , `` you will make me very unhappy . '' 
`` Next to Mama , I would wish to please you , dear Richard . '' 
`` Will you not be there , Richard ? '' 
`` Then kiss me for the last time , '' said Richard . 
`` I 'll never kiss you after it , Clare . '' 
He bent his head to meet her mouth , and she threw her arms wildly round him , and kissed him convulsively , and clung to his lips , shutting her eyes , her face suffused with a burning red . 
Then he left her , unaware of the meaning of those passionate kisses . 
It completely occupied Richard 's mind , and prevented him from chafing at the vexation of not finding his father ready to meet him when he came to Town . 
Quite against his set resolve and the tide of his feelings , Richard found himself standing behind Clare in the Church , -- the very edifice that had witnessed his own marriage , and heard , `` I Clare Doria take thee John Pemberton , '' clearly pronounced . 
Mrs. Doria glanced aside at Richard . 
Richard observed Clare spread out her fingers that the operation might be the more easily effected . 
He did duty in the vestry a few minutes , and then said to his Aunt : `` Now I 'll go . '' 
The Foreys -- '' He cut her short . 
`` Richard ! '' 
Go and kiss Clare , and shake his hand . 
She turned to Adrian , and said : `` He is going . 
You must go with him , and find some means of keeping him , or he 'll be running off to that woman . 
Richard bade Clare farewell . 
She put up her mouth to him humbly , but he kissed her on the forehead . 
`` Do not cease to love me , '' she said in a quavering whisper in his ear . 
`` Richard , my boy ! '' 
Adrian hurried after Richard in an extremely discontented state of mind . 
Not to be at the breakfast and see the best of the fun , disgusted him . 
However , he remembered that he was a philosopher , and the strong disgust he felt was only expressed in concentrated cynicism on every earthly matter engendered by the conversation . 
cried Richard , `` that a man you ca n't call bad , should do this damned thing ! '' 
`` Go to him now , Richard , my son . 
Go to him now . 
if he really has a noble elevated superior mind -- though not a Cavalier in person , he may be one at heart -- he might , to please you , and since you put such stress upon it , abstain ... perhaps with some loss of dignity , but never mind . 
It was provoking that Richard should be Adrian 's best subject for cynical pastime , in the extraordinary heterodoxies he started , and his worst in the way he took it ; and the Wise Youth , against his will , had to feel as conscious of the young man 's imaginative mental armour , as he was of his muscular physical . 
mused Richard , looking up . 
`` Some difference in the trees , though , '' Richard continued abstractedly . 
Richard was earnest to hear her exonerated . 
emphasized Richard . 
Richard bellowed : `` What more could she have done ? '' 
With a furious exclamation Richard shot in front , Adrian following him ; and asking him -LRB- merely to have his assumption verified -RRB- , whether he did not think she might have shaved her head ? 
and , presuming her to have done so , whether , in candour , he did not think he would have waited -- at least till she looked less of a rank lunatic ? 
After a minute or so , the Wise Youth was but a fly buzzing about Richard 's head . 
Three weeks of separation from Lucy , and an excitement deceased , caused him to have soft yearnings for the dear lovely home-face . 
He greeted them very cordially ; and Richard , remembering some fun they had in the island , asked him to dine with them ; postponing his return till the next day . 
Lucy was his . 
Richard sent down to his office to fetch him , and the two friends shook hands for the first time since the great deed had been executed . 
Deep was the Old Dog 's delight to hear the praises of his Beauty sounded by such aristocratic lips as the Hon. Peter Brayder 's . 
But it struck him that Brayder might be of assistance in showing Richard a little of the ` society in every form ' required by his Chief 's prescript . 
`` That is , '' he continued , `` we are not yet permitted an interview with the august author of our being , and I have rather a difficult post . 
-- but we wo n't shock him , '' the Honourable Peter observed , patting Richard on the back . 
Next morning Richard was surprised by a visit from his Aunt . 
Mrs. Doria took a seat by his side , and spoke as follows : `` My dear Nephew . 
Richard , I am convinced you will never be happy , whatever base pleasures you may be led into , if he should withhold his love from you . 
He has you in Town , and he does not see you -- now you know that he and I are not in communication : we have likewise our differences : -- Well , he has you in Town , and he holds aloof : -- he is trying you , my dear Richard . 
No : he is not at Raynham : I do not know where he is . 
You must convince him that you do not care utterly for your own gratification . 
If this person -- I wish to speak of her with respect , for your sake -- well , if she loves you at all -- if , I say , she loves you one atom , she will repeat my solicitations for you to stay and patiently wait here till he consents to see you . 
I tell you candidly , it 's your only chance of ever getting him to receive her . 
And now , Richard , I may add that there is something else you should know . 
I should regard such a contingency , Richard , as a final division between you . 
She therefore left him as soon as she had , as she supposed , made her mark on the young man . 
Richard was very silent during the speech , and , save for an exclamation or so , had listened attentively . 
He pondered on what his Aunt said . 
He loved Lady Blandish , and yet he did not wish to see her Lady Feverel . 
Mrs. Doria laid painful stress on the scandal , and though he did not give his mind to this , he thought of it . 
He thought of his mother . 
But most his thoughts recurred to his father , and something akin to jealousy slowly awakened his heart to him . 
He had given him up , and had not latterly felt extremely filial ; but he could not bear the idea of a division in the love of which he had ever been the idol and sole object . 
`` He will be more patient at the end of a week . '' 
I surrender him to you . 
I sha n't be able to hold him in after one week more . 
I assure you , my dear Aunt , he 's already ... '' `` Thank you , no explanation , '' Mrs. Doria begged . 
When Richard saw her next , he was informed that she had received a most satisfactory letter from Mrs. John Todhunter : quite a glowing account of John 's behaviour : but on Richard 's desiring to know the words Clare had written , Mrs. Doria objected to be explicit , and shot into worldly gossip . 
`` Clara seldom glows , '' said Richard . 
`` No , I mean for her , '' his Aunt remarked . 
`` I should like to have seen the letter , '' said Richard . 
A lady driving a pair of greys was noticed by Richard in his rides and walks . 
She passed him rather obviously and often . 
She took his fancy . 
He liked the air of petulant gallantry about her , and mused upon the picture , rare to him , of a glorious dashing woman . 
He thought , too , she looked at him . 
He was not at the time inclined to be vain or he might have been sure she did . 
Once it struck him she nodded slightly . 
`` Now that 's my idea of Bellona , '' Richard exclaimed . 
Richard inquired . 
Richard replied indifferently , `` No , '' and Mrs. Mount passed out of sight and out of the conversation . 
In return , he distantly indicated Richard 's majority . 
Now with any other young man ... But Richard 's education ! 
... Has he no distraction ? 
nothing to amuse him ? '' 
`` I must see Richard tomorrow morning , '' Mrs. Doria ended the colloquy by saying . 
The result of her interview with her nephew was , that Richard made no allusion to a departure on the Tuesday ; and for many days afterwards he appeared to have an absorbing business on his hands : but what it was Adrian did not then learn , and his admiration of Mrs. Doria 's genius for management rose to a very high pitch . 
Richard begged to be excused . 
Richard said he had an appointment with Ripton . 
After some persuasion , Richard yawned wearily , -- and got up , and threw aside the care that was on him , saying , `` Very well . 
Richard replied that he had given up that sort of thing , at which Brayder communicated a queer glance to Adrian , and applauded the youth . 
The day was like none that Richard vividly remembered . 
It touched no link in the chain of his recollection . 
Richard gazed about . 
Heroes do not always know what to say or do ; and the cold bath before dinner in strange company is one of the instances . 
He had recognized his superb Bellona in the lady by the garden window . 
For Brayder the men had nods and jokes , the ladies a pretty playfulness . 
He was very busy , passing between the groups , chatting , laughing , taking the feminine taps he received , and sometimes returning them in sly whispers . 
`` Where is he ? 
why do n't he come ? '' 
`` There he is again ! 
How shamefully he treats Mrs. Mount ! '' 
Brayder drew Richard from seat to seat . 
Richard usurped his chair , and was not badly welcomed by his neighbour . 
The ladies laughed high ; Richard only thought them gay and natural . 
They flung back in their chairs and laughed to tears ; Ripton thought only of the pleasure he had in their society . 
said Mrs. Mount to Richard . 
`` No , '' he replied , `` I 've not been there . '' 
The question seemed odd : she spoke so simply that it did not impress him . 
He emptied his glass , and had it filled again . 
He told one or two of Richard 's feats . 
`` Only on myself , '' returned Richard . 
cried his Bellona , and her eye sent a lingering delirious sparkle across her brimming glass at him . 
`` I 'm sure you 're a safe one to back , '' she added , and seemed to scan his points approvingly . 
Richard 's cheeks mounted bloom . 
said the enraptured bosom , ogling him . 
thought Richard . 
It comes , '' he reflected , `` of his shutting himself from the world . '' 
And the idea that he was seeing the world , and feeling wiser , flattered him . 
He talked fluently to his dangerous Bellona . 
Mrs. Mount did not come out much ; but there was a deferential manner in the bearing of the men towards her , which those haughty creatures accord not save to clever women ; and she contrived to hold the talk with three or four at the head of the table while she still had passages aside with Richard . 
`` We are split into couples , '' said Adrian to Richard , who was standing alone , eyeing the landscape . '' 
Richard said he thought them a nice sort . 
Ripton endured his bantering that he might hang about Richard , and watch over him . 
He was jealous of his innocent Beauty 's husband being in proximity with such women . 
Ripton favoured his friend with another hard whisper , `` there 's a woman smoking ! '' 
The Aphorist would have pardoned Ripton Thompson his first Random extravagance , had he perceived the simple warm-hearted worship of feminine goodness Richard 's young bride had inspired in the breast of the youth . 
It might possibly have taught him to put deeper trust in Nature . 
Ripton thought of her , and had a feeling of sadness . 
Lying there , and meditating , he became aware of voices conversing . 
In the voyage back to Town , Richard was again selected to sit by Mrs. Mount . 
Richard 's hand lay open by his side . 
A yellow leaf wavering down from the aspens struck Richard 's cheek , and he drew away the very hand to throw back his hair and smooth his face , and then folded his arms , unconscious of offence . 
He was thinking ambitiously of his life : his blood was untroubled : his brain calmly working . 
is a problem put by the Pilgrim : ` To meet the temptings of Eve , or to pique her ? ' 
She turned her back to Richard , who had a view of a delicate neck as he manipulated with the bearing of a nailed-knight . 
she asked carelessly , and , to his reply , `` Then I can give you a lift , '' and she took his arm with a matter-of-course air , and walked up the stairs with him . 
Ripton saw what had happened . 
He was going to follow : the portly dame retained him , and desired him to get her a cab . 
She gave his nose a comical tap , and tripped away with her possessor . 
Ripton rather forgot his friend for some minutes : random thoughts laid hold of him . 
Cabs and carriages rattled past . 
He was sure he had been among members of the nobility that day , though when they went by him now they only recognized him with an effort of the eyelids . 
Thus , with a groaning soul , he pictured her . 
His reason voluntarily consigned her to the aristocracy as a natural appanage : but he did amorously wish that Fortune had made a lord of him . 
Then his mind reverted to Mrs. Mount , and the strange conversation he had heard on the hill . 
He was not one to suspect anybody positively . 
It hovered indefinitely , and clouded people , without stirring him to any resolve . 
Still the attentions of the lady towards Richard were queer . 
He endeavoured to imagine they were in the nature of things , because Richard was so handsome that any woman must take to him . 
Not a high morality , perhaps : better than none at all : better for the world were it practised more . 
He thought of Richard along with that sparkling dame , alone with her . 
The adorable beauty of his dear bride , her pure heavenly face , swam before him . 
Thinking of her , he lost sight of the mignonne who had made him giddy . 
He walked to Richard 's hotel , and up and down the street there , hoping every minute to hear his step ; sometimes fancying he might have returned and gone to bed . 
Ripton could not go away . 
He was sure he should not sleep if he did . 
At last the cold sent him homeward , and leaving the street , on the moonlight side of Piccadilly he met his friend patrolling with his head up and that swing of the feet proper to men who are chanting verses . 
cried Richard cheerily . 
Ripton muttered of his pleasure at meeting him . 
Richard smiled on him in an amused kindly way . 
`` But Richard -- excuse me -- I 'm sure I do n't mean to offend you -- but now you 're married ... perhaps you could n't help seeing her home , but I think you really indeed ought n't to have gone upstairs . '' 
said Richard . 
`` You do n't suppose I care for any woman but my little darling down there . '' 
Ripton blushed and looked away as he spoke . 
The Hero gave one of his scornful glances . 
`` I do hope you will go home soon , '' he added . 
`` Yes , '' said Richard , `` and I , so , do I hope so . 
Then he read Ripton a lecture on erring women , speaking of them as if he had known them and studied them for years . 
Forgetting to contest the premiss , that all be - trayed women are betrayed by Love , Ripton was silenced . 
He , like most young men , had pondered somewhat on this matter , and was inclined to be sentimental when he was not hungry . 
Richard harangued at leisure , while Ripton 's teeth chattered . 
The letter was a reply to a vehement entreaty from Lady Blandish for him to come up to Richard and forgive him thoroughly : Richard 's name was not mentioned in it . 
`` He tries to be more than he is , '' thought the lady : and she began insensibly to conceive him less than he was . 
The Baronet was conscious of a certain false gratification in his son 's apparent obedience to his wishes , and complete submission : a gratification he chose to accept as his due , without dissecting or accounting for it . 
The intelligence reiterating that Richard waited , and still waited ; Richard 's letters , and more his dumb abiding and practical penitence ; vindicated humanity sufficiently to stop the course of virulent aphorisms . 
He could speak , we have seen , in sorrow for this frail nature of ours that he had once stood forth to champion . 
`` But how long will this last ? '' 
he demanded with the air of Hippias . 
Indeed , his indigestion of wrath had made of him a moral Dyspepsy . 
It was not mere obedience that held Richard from the arms of his young wife : nor was it this new Knightly enterprise he had presumed to undertake . 
Richard dropped no tears . 
Disgrace of this kind is always present to a son , and , educated as he had been , these tidings were a vivid fire in his brain . 
Here was work set to his hand . 
She encouraged him to stay for that purpose , thinking it also served another . 
Pity , deep pity for Richard 's conduct Ripton saw breathing out of Mrs. Doria . 
Algernon Feverel treated him with a sort of rough commiseration , as a young fellow who had spoilt his luck . 
Going home at night Richard would laugh at the faces made about his marriage . 
or I 'll do it alone -- what there is to do . '' 
She 's as brave as she 's lovely , I 'll swear she is ! 
She 'd follow you into battle , Richard ! '' 
And Richard rejoined : `` Talk on , dear old Rip ! 
So thought Richard for a space . 
`` But if I go , Rip , '' he said despondently , `` if I go for a day even I shall have undone all my work with my father . 
at Richard 's elbow . 
The lady presently made a laughing remark to him , whereat he turned to look , and Mrs. Berry bobbed . 
She had to bob a second time , and then he remembered the worthy creature , and hailed her Penelope , shaking her hand so that he put her in countenance again . 
Mrs. Berry was extremely agitated . 
In the evening Richard made good his promise , accompanied by Ripton . 
She could not wait to get him into the parlour . 
she cried , falling into his arms , while Richard did his best to support the unexpected burden . 
Then , reproaching him tenderly for his guile -- at mention of which Ription chuckled , deeming it his own most honourable portion of the plot -- Mrs. Berry led them into the parlour , and revealed to Richard who she was , and how she had tossed him , and hugged him , and kissed him all over , when he was only that big -- showing him her stumpy fat arm . 
Richard assured her he was not a bit ashamed , but warned her that she must not do it now , Mrs. Berry admitting it was out of the question now , and now that he had a wife , moreover . 
Richard hurriedly explained that Lucy was still in the Isle of Wight . 
I wish it had been a day or two , '' cried Richard . 
asked Mrs. Berry , her heart beginning to beat at his manner of speaking . 
`` Do n't talk about it , '' said Richard . 
`` My father sent for me -- I 'm waiting to see him , '' said Richard . 
Richard was respectfully attentive to the sermon . 
Ripton nodded encouragingly at every sentence , for he saw her drift , and wished to second it . 
`` My dear old girl , '' Richard went up to her and applauding her on the shoulder , `` you 're a very wise old woman . 
went Richard , who thought he knew . 
Richard paced up and down uneasily . 
`` Just be quiet at present -- talk of other things , there 's a good woman , '' said Richard . 
`` Now and then , '' said Richard . 
`` Very , '' said Richard . 
`` Look here , Penelope , '' Richard stopped her at last . 
She said she did not like so many ladies , which natural objection Richard met by saying there was only one lady . 
`` And Mrs. Berry , '' he added , dropping his voice . 
She has been very unfortunate . '' 
His serious air and habitual tone of command fascinated the softness of Berry , and it was not until he had gone that she spoke out . 
Early next day Mrs. Berry bundled off to Richard 's hotel to let him know her determination . 
She did not find him there . 
Returning homeward through the Park , she beheld him on horseback riding by the side of the identical lady . 
A lady veiled was brought into the house by Richard . 
Mrs. Berry feebly tried to bar his progress in the passage . 
She heard him murmur a few sentences within . 
Then he came out . 
My house ai n't a penitentiary for unfort ` nate females , Sir -- '' He frowned at her curiously ; but as she was on the point of renewing her indignant protest , he clapped his hand across her mouth , and spoke words in her ear that had awful import to her . 
The colloquy was short between Diaper Sandoe and Richard . 
The blood of her son had been running so long alien from her that the sense of her motherhood smote her now with strangeness , and Richard 's stern gentleness seemed like dreadful justice come upon her . 
She called him Sir , till he bade her remember he was her son . 
Her voice sounded to him like that of a broken-throated lamb , so painful and weak it was , with the plaintive stop in the utterance . 
When he kissed her , her skin was cold . 
Her thin hand fell out of his when his grasp relaxed . 
`` Can sin hunt one like this ? '' 
he asked , bitterly reproaching himself for the shame she had caused him to endure , and a deep compassion filled his breast . 
Poetic justice had been dealt to Diaper the poet . 
He thought of all he had sacrificed for this woman -- the comfortable quarters , the friend , the happy flights . 
He could not but accuse her of unfaithfulness in leaving him in his old-age . 
Habit had legalized his union with her . 
Day by day Richard visited his mother Lady Blandish and Ripton alone were in the secret . 
Richard listened to him with disgust . 
When Lady Feverel had revived to take part in the consultations Mrs. Berry perpetually opened on the subject of Richard 's matrimonial duty , another chain was cast about him . 
So Mrs. Berry , to whom Richard had once made mention of Lady Blandish as the only friend he had among women , bundled off in her black-satin dress to obtain an interview with her , and an ally . 
The lady took upon herself seriously to advise Richard to send for his wife . 
Richard gave it up . 
He began to think that the life lying behind him was the life of a fool . 
What had he done in it ? 
He had burnt a rick and got married ! 
He associated the two acts of his existence . 
No mention of Bella occurred in Richard 's letters to Lucy . 
To back this she told him stories of blooming dames of good repute , and poured a little social sewerage into his ears . 
Also she understood him . 
She told him what she liked in him . 
She left him and presently returned with , `` Ah , Dick ! 
`` I do n't know that , '' said Richard , for the contrast in her attire to those shooting eyes and lips , aired her sex bewitchingly . 
Say it 's becas I 'm an honest woman and du n't caa to haid the -- a -- unmentionables when I waa them -- as the t ` others do , '' sprinkled with the dandy 's famous invocations . 
And he with much assurance guaranteed to stand by her , while she bent her thin fingers trying the muscle of his arm , and reposed upon it more . 
She never uttered an idea , or a reflection , but Richard thought her the cleverest woman he had ever met . 
All kinds of problematic notions beset him . 
She sailed full down upon Richard . 
that you have been seen going publicly about with an infamous woman , Richard ? 
Richard knew of no person answering to his Aunt 's description in whose company he could have been seen . 
The acquaintance of a lady very much misjudged and ill used by the world , Richard admitted to . 
She likewise lectured Richard , and with her he condescended to argue . 
But he found himself obliged to instance something he had quite neglected . 
cried Richard . 
thought Lady Blandish . 
The world that condemned her and cast her out , was no better -- worse for its miserable hypocrisy . 
Have you forgotten you have a wife , Richard ? '' 
Richard laughed at him . 
The Hero then favoured him with a warning equal to in emphasis , and surpassing in sincerity , his own . 
`` Why , you 're taller , '' Richard made the discovery . 
`` Then ... '' his project recurred to him . 
Richard told her he found all natural women had a similar wish . 
sighed Mrs. Mount , divining the pattern of the carpet . 
Her nearest eye , setting a dimple of her cheek in motion , slid to the corner towards her ear , as she sat with her head sideways to him listening . 
When he had gone , she said to herself : `` Old hypocrites talk in that way ; but I never heard of a young man doing it , and not making love at the same time . '' 
Their next meeting displayed her quieter : subdued as one who had been set thinking . 
`` Gentle means are , I think , the only means with Richard , '' said Lady Blandish . 
`` Appeal to his reason , '' the practical animal iterated . 
Throwing banter aside , as much as he could , Adrian spoke to Richard . 
Richard walked away from the interrogation . 
Richard 's eyes moistened . 
Yet she never called to him to come , or he would have gone . 
His heart leapt up to her . 
`` Richard -- I ca n't call you Dick now , I really do n't know why -- '' she said , `` I want to beg a favour of you . '' 
Though this lady never expressed an idea , Richard was not mistaken in her cleverness . 
`` Richard ! 
It was dark enough to Richard . 
`` Did you love the man ? '' 
said Richard , more to himself than to her . 
murmured Richard , `` she says just what my father said . '' 
`` Is n't it ? '' 
Nevertheless she had opened a wider view of the world to him , and a colder . 
cried Richard , after fighting his phantom enemy till he was worn out . 
old Rip ! '' 
he addressed his friend , `` I 'm distracted . 
It was only friend Ripton 's ear that was required , so his words went for little : but he did say he thought there was small matter to be ashamed of in winning and wearing the Beauty of Earth . 
Richard added his customary comment of `` Poor little thing ! '' 
He fought his duello with empty air till he was exhausted . 
A last letter written to his father procured him no reply . 
`` Then , '' said he , `` I have tried my utmost . 
the Hero groaned . 
His great ambition must be covered by a house-top : he and the cat must warm themselves on the domestic hearth ! 
You 're the best fellow I ever knew , Richard . 
Lady Blandish heard from Adrian that Richard was positively going to his wife . 
The Wise Youth modestly veiled his own merit in bringing it about by saying : `` I could n't see that poor little woman left alone down there any longer . '' 
Richard bade them adieu , and went to spend his last evening with Mrs. Mount . 
The Enchantress received him in state . 
It was a point of honour for Richard to sit down to it and try to eat . 
Richard ! 
Richard shouted . 
Was he in Hell , with a lost soul raving to him ? 
It was a gift of his . 
Richard pushed a few months forward . 
Richard had given the lady twenty-five years . 
cried Richard . 
He seized some dead champagne , emptied the bottle into a tumbler , and drank it off . 
Richard uttered in a deep and voice , as he walked the room . 
`` Bella ! '' 
The mighty pity falling from his eyes took in her whole shape . 
Her hand was shaken in his by the passion of torment with which his frame quaked . 
She glanced up at him quickly , then looked down , drew her hand from his , and smoothed it , eyeing it . 
This article of apparel instantaneously changed the tone of the conversation , for he , rising abruptly , nearly squashed the lady 's lap-dog , whose squeaks and howls were piteous , and demanded the most fervent caresses of its mistress . 
said Richard savagely , from the other end of the room , `` you care for the happiness of your dog . '' 
`` A course se does , '' Mumpsy was simperingly assured in the thick of his silky flanks . 
Richard looked for his hat . 
First a smile changed Richard 's face ; then , laughing , a melancholy laugh , he surrendered to her humour , and went through the form of begging Mumpsy 's pardon . 
Let us be gay , Richard , and not part like ancient fogies . 
She moved slowly , and came up to him , fastening weird eyes on him , pointing a finger at the region of witches . 
Sepulchral cadences accompanied the representation . 
He did not listen , for he was thinking what a deadly charming and exquisitely horrid witch she was . 
Something in the way her underlids worked seemed to remind him of a forgotten picture ; but a veil hung on the picture . 
There could be no analogy , for this was beautiful and devilish , and that , if he remembered rightly , had the beauty of seraphs . 
She had the coolness to put the plate down on the table , while he stamped out the flame on the carpet . 
Again she shrieked : she thought she was on fire . 
He fell on his knees and clasped her skirts all round , drawing his arms down them several times . 
Still kneeling , he looked up , and asked : `` Do you feel safe now ? '' 
She bent her face glaring down till the ends of her hair touched his cheek . 
There was sorcery in her breath ; sorcery in her hair : the ends of it stung him like little snakes . 
`` Like you do everything , Bella , '' he said , and took a breath . 
I like to see you so . '' 
`` Richard , '' her tone was serious , `` you were going to speak to me of my parents . '' 
`` My father , Richard , was a very respectable man . '' 
`` My mother died in my infancy , Richard . '' 
Her head shook sorrowfully at the glistening fire-irons . 
`` If I haunt you , you ca n't forget me , Richard . '' 
and away she burst from him , and up flew her hair , as she danced across the room , and fell at full length on the sofa . 
`` We 'll talk of everyday things , Dick , '' she called to him from the sofa . 
Talk , Dick ! '' 
Excitement had dyed her cheeks deep red . 
He was a youth , and she an Enchantress . 
`` You will not leave me yet , Richard ? 
not yet ? '' 
`` It 's our last night -- I suppose it 's our last hour together in this world -- and I do n't want to meet you in the next , for poor Dick will have to come to such a very very disagreeable place to make the visit . '' 
She drank in his homage . 
You do n't know all my accomplishments yet , Richard . '' 
`` Do n't you think he 'll make me his prima donna below ? 
`` I used to sing that when I was a girl , sweet Richard , and did n't know at all , at all , what it meant . 
He was in the mood when the imagination intensely vivifies everything . 
it was the lady before him ; and soft horns blew ; he smelt the languid night-flowers ; he saw the stars crowd large and close above the arid plain ; this lady leaning at her window desolate , pouring out her abandoned heart . 
Thither he followed her at a leap . 
He was prepared for the misery of any woman anywhere . 
`` I have been light and careless tonight , Richard . 
if you could know what a net I 'm in , Richard ! '' 
`` Lost , Richard ! 
My lord was in love with Richard 's young wife . 
He gave proofs of it by burying himself beside her . 
To her , could she have seen it , he gave further proofs of a real devotion , in affecting , and in her presence feeling , nothing beyond a lively interest in her well-being . 
This wonder , that when near her he should be cool and composed , and when away from her wrapped in a tempest of desires , was matter for what powers of cogitation the heavy nobleman possessed . 
Moreover , Richard had commended her to the care of lord Mountfalcon , and lady Judith . 
`` He , a great nobleman , does not scorn to acknowledge me , and think something of me , '' may have been one of the half-thoughts passing through her now and then , as she reflected in self-defence on the proud family she had married into . 
It was dated from the Sussex coast , signed ` Richard , ' and was worded thus : `` My beautiful Devil ! 
Both conscientiously agreed that Richard 's behaviour to his wife was infamous , and that he at least deserved no mercy . 
`` But , '' said his lordship , `` it wo n't do to show the letter . 
Then they lay in bed , and Mrs. Berry fondled her , and arranged for their departure tomorrow , and reviewed Richard 's emotions when he came to hear he was going to be made a father by her , and hinted at Lucy 's delicious shivers when Richard was again in his rightful place , which she , Bessy Berry , now usurped ; and all sorts of amorous sweet things ; enough to make one fancy the adage subverted , that stolen fruits are sweetest ; she drew such glowing pictures of bliss within the Law , and the limits of the conscience , till at last , worn out , Lucy murmured , `` Peepy , dear Berry , '' and the soft woman gradually ceased her chirp . 
By some strange guidance it occurred to her to go and find one of Richard 's boots . 
But where was Richard ? 
Richard did not present himself . 
Seeing this , the lady told him her fears for Richard , and mentioned the rumour of him that was about . 
A month elapsed , and Richard appeared on the scene . 
The meeting between him and his father was not what his father expected , and had crooned over in the Welsh mountains , among the echoes of his Aphorisms . 
Richard shook his hand respectfully , and inquired after his health with the common social solicitude . 
He then said : `` During your absence , Sir , I have taken the liberty , without consulting you , to do something in which you are more deeply concerned than myself . 
Sir Austin replied : `` You are of an age , Richard , to judge for yourself in such a case . 
`` I have not deceived myself , Sir , '' said Richard , and the interview was over . 
Both hated an exposure of the feelings , and in that both were satisfied : but the Baronet , as one who loves , hoped and looked for tones indicative of trouble and delight in the deep heart ; and Richard gave him none of those . 
The young man did not even face him as he spoke : if their eyes met by chance , Richard 's were defiantly cold . 
His whole bearing was changed . 
`` This rash Marriage has altered him , '' said the very just man of Science in life : and that meant : ` it has debased him . ' 
He pursued his reflections : `` I see in him the desperate maturity of a suddenly-ripened nature : and but for my faith that good work is never lost , what should I think of the toil of my years ? 
lost to him ! 
It may show itself in his children . '' 
One little incident spoke well of Richard . 
A poor woman called at the hotel while he was missing . 
The Baronet saw her , and she told him a tale that threw Christian light on one part of Richard 's nature . 
Richard ate and drank ; joked and laughed . 
He was generally before Adrian in calling for a fresh bottle . 
He talked easily of current topics : his gaiety did not sound forced . 
In all he did , nevertheless , there was not the air of a youth who sees a future before him . 
The man of Science was not reckoning that Richard also might have learned to act and wear a mask . 
Dead subjects -- that is to say , people not on their guard -- he could penetrate and dissect . 
Richard had replied nothing ; which might mean excess of gratitude , or hypocrisy in concealing his pleasure , or any one of the thousand shifts by which gratified human nature expresses itself when all is made to run smooth with it . 
Richard held her silent with a terrible face ; he grasped her arm , and put her behind him . 
Richard was death-pale , his strong form smitten through with weakness . 
Adrian had seen Lucy as they passed , and he had a glimpse of Richard 's countenance while disposing of Berry . 
Had Lucy recognized them , he would have gone to her unhesitatingly . 
As she did not , he thought it well , under the circumstances , to leave matters as they were . 
He answered the Baronet 's look with a shrug . 
`` Are you ill , Richard ? '' 
cried Richard . 
His father 's further meditations , as they stepped briskly to the Foreys , gave poor Berry a character which one who lectures on Matrimony , and has kissed but three men in her life , shrieks to hear the very title of . 
`` Richard will go to his wife tomorrow , '' Sir Austin said to Adrian some time before they went in to dinner . 
Adrian asked him if he had chanced to see a young fair-haired lady by the side of the old one Richard had treated so peculiarly ; and to the Baronet 's acknowledgment that he remembered to have observed such a person , Adrian said : `` That was his wife , Sir . '' 
`` Richard is very gay , '' Mrs. Doria whispered her brother . 
`` All will be right with him tomorrow , '' he replied ; for the game had been in his hands so long , so long had he been the God of the machine , that having once resolved to speak plainly and to act , he was to a certain extent secure , bad as the thing to mend might be . 
`` I notice he has a rather wild laugh -- I do n't exactly like his eyes , '' said Mrs. Doria . 
`` You will see a change in him tomorrow , '' the man of Science remarked . 
She cast about for some one to accompany her , and fixed on Richard . 
Before he would give his consent for Richard to go , Sir Austin desired to speak with him apart , and in that interview he said to his son : `` My dear Richard ! 
said Richard . 
said Richard , sighing deeply . 
said Richard to himself , not intending irony . 
he asked resolutely . 
The Baronet was clouded by his son 's reception of his graciousness . 
His grateful prospect had formerly been Richard 's marriage -- the culmination of his System . 
Richard had destroyed his participation in that . 
He now looked for a pretty scene in recompense : -- Richard leading up his wife to him , and both being welcomed by him paternally , and so held one ostentatious minute in his embrace . 
He said : `` Before you return , I demur to receiving her . '' 
`` Very well , Sir , '' replied his son , and stood as if he had spoken all . 
the Baronet exclaimed ; and the next moment it pained him he had uttered the words , Richard 's eyes were so sorrowfully fierce . 
It pained him , but he divined in that look a history , and he could not refrain from glancing acutely and asking : `` Do you ? '' 
Richard 's eyes had the light of the desert . 
his father repeated . 
At the thought -- for he expressed his mind -- the pity that he had for Richard was not pure gold . 
His eyes flew hard at his father under the ridge of his eyebrows . 
`` Tell me why you passed by her as you did this afternoon , '' he said gravely : and in the same voice Richard answered : `` I passed her because I could not do otherwise . '' 
`` Your wife , Richard ? '' 
`` If she had seen you , Richard ? '' 
Mrs. Doria , bustling in practical haste , and bearing Richard 's hat and greatcoat in her energetic hands , came between them at this juncture . 
`` Somebody has kissed him , Sir , and the chaste boy ca n't get over it . '' 
This absurd suggestion did more to appease the Baronet than if Adrian had given a veritable reasonable key to Richard 's conduct . 
It set him thinking that it might be a prudish strain in the young man 's mind , due to the System in difficulties . 
Richard is face to face with Death for the first time . 
He sees the sculpture of clay -- the spark gone . 
When hours of weeping had silenced the mother 's anguish , she , for some comfort she saw in it , pointed out that strange thing to Richard , speaking low in the chamber of the dead ; and then he learnt that it was his own lost ring Clare wore in the two worlds . 
He learnt from her husband Clare 's last request had been that neither of the Rings should be removed . 
In wonder as the dim idea grew from the waving of Clare 's dead hand , Richard paced the house , and hung about the awful room ; dreading to enter it , reluctant to quit it . 
He saw it play like flame across her marble features . 
The memory of her voice was like a knife at his nerves . 
His coldness to her started up accusingly : her meekness was bitter blame . 
On the evening of the fourth day , her mother came to him in his bedroom , with a face so white he asked himself if aught worse could happen to a mother than the loss of her child . 
Choking she said to him , `` Read this , '' and thrust a leatherbound pocket-book trembling in his hand . 
She would not breathe to him what it was . 
She entreated him not to open it before her . 
I have nobody to consult but you -- oh , Richard ! '' 
The first name his eye encountered was his own . 
`` Richard 's fourteenth birthday . 
I have worked him a purse and put it under his pillow , because he is going to have plenty of money . 
He does not notice me now because he has a friend now , and he is ugly , but Richard is not , and never will be . '' 
`` We went into the fields and gathered cowslips together , and pelted each other , and I told him he used to call them ` coals-sleeps ' when he was a baby , and he was angry at my telling him , for he does not like to be told he was ever a baby . '' 
He read on : `` Mama says there is no one in the world like Richard , and I am sure there is not , not in the whole world . 
He says he is going to be a great General and going to the wars . 
I wonder what I should feel if Richard was ever to die . '' 
`` Lady Blandish said there is a likeness between Richard and me . 
Richard said I hope I do not hang down my head as she does . 
He is angry with me because I do not look people in the face and speak out , but I know I am not looking after earth-worms . '' 
Then it came to a period when the words : `` Richard kissed me , '' stood by themselves , and marked a day in her life . 
Afterwards it was solemnly discovered that Richard wrote poetry . 
He read one of his old forgotten compositions penned when he had that ambition . 
`` It is he who is the humble knight , '' Clare explained at the close , `` and his lady is a Queen . 
Any Queen would throw her crown away for him . '' 
`` Richard was not sorry to lose me . 
He only loves boys and men . 
He was dressed in blue . 
He said Good bye , Clare , and kissed me on the cheek . 
Richard never kisses me on the mouth . 
He did not know I went to his bed and kissed him while he was asleep . 
He sleeps with one arm under his head , and the other out on the bed . 
I moved away a bit of his hair that was over his eyes . 
Richard 's is Richard Doria Feverel . '' 
His breast rose convulsively . 
He knew the music of that name . 
He had heard it somewhere . 
He could not read for tears . 
Painfully , with blinded eyes , he looked over the breathless pages . 
She spoke of his Marriage , and her finding the Ring . 
`` I knew it was his . 
I knew he was going to be married that morning . 
I saw him stand by the altar when they laughed at breakfast . 
His wife must be so beautiful ! 
Richard 's wife ! 
Perhaps he will love me better now he is married . 
If I can help him I will . 
I pray so that he may be happy . 
`` I have seen Richard . 
Richard despises me , '' was the next entry . 
But now as he read his eyes were fixed , and the delicate feminine handwriting like a black thread drew on his soul to one terrible conclusion . 
Richard despises me . 
I understand him now . 
He should not have kissed me so that last time . 
I wished to die while his mouth was on mine . '' 
Richard said he would die rather than endure it . 
I know he would . 
Why should I be afraid to do what he would do ? 
Richard laid the book open on the table . 
Phantom surges seemed to be mounting and travelling for his brain . 
Had Clare taken his wild words in earnest ? 
Did she lie there dead -- he shrouded the thought . 
He wrapped the thoughts in shrouds , but he was again reading . 
I shall never see Richard now . 
I dreamed last night we were in the fields together , and he walked with his arm round my waist . 
We were children , but I thought we were married , and I showed him I wore his Ring , and he said -- if you always wear it , Clare , you are as good as my wife . 
She does not think as Richard and I do of these things . 
He is not a coward , nor am I . 
He hates cowards . 
`` I have written to his father to make him happy . 
Perhaps when I am dead he will hear what I say . 
`` I heard just now Richard call distinctly -- Clari , come out to me . 
Surely he has not gone . 
`` I can only remember Richard now a boy . 
I am not sure now of his voice . 
Good bye , Richard . '' 
With his name it began and ended . 
Those last words drew him irresistibly to gaze on her . 
For a moment he wondered she had not moved -- to him she had become so different . 
She who had just filled his ears with strange tidings -- it was not possible to think her dead ! 
She seemed to have been speaking to him all through his life . 
His image was on that still heart . 
He dismissed the night-watchers from the room , and remained with her alone , till the sense of Death oppressed him , and then the shock sent him to the window to look for sky and stars . 
Behind a low broad pine , hung with frosty mist , he heard a bell-wether of the flock in the silent fold . 
The mother found him praying at the foot of Clare 's bed . 
She knelt by his side , and they prayed , and their joint sobs shook their bodies , but neither of them shed many tears . 
`` Richard , '' she said , `` the worst is over for me . 
We have all been fighting against God , and this ... Richard ! 
Richard has one ? '' 
He has one : one as big as two . 
Conceive the System in the flesh , and you have our Richard . 
Ultimately Mrs. Berry spoke of the family - complication , and with dejected head and joined hands threw out dark hints about Richard . 
Mrs. Berry allowed time for Lucy 's charms to subdue him , and presented Richard 's representative , who , seeing a new face , suffered himself to be contemplated before he commenced crying aloud , and knocking at the doors of Nature for something that was due to him . 
Mrs. Berry looked to no more than that ; Lucy to no more than the peace she had in being near Richard 's best friend . 
During the meal he entertained them with anecdotes of his travel . 
`` I have brought Richard 's wife , Sir , '' he said with a pleased , perfectly uncalculating , countenance , that was disarming . 
The Baronet contemplated Richard 's choice . 
Had he ever had a rivalry with those pure eyes ? 
He saw the pain of her position shooting across her brows , and uttering gentle inquiries as to her health placed her in a seat . 
`` Perhaps you had better take to Richard 's room at once , '' he pursued . 
`` By the way , what is he to me ? '' 
`` I really think he 's like Richard , '' Austin laughed . 
Lucy looked : `` I am sure he is . '' 
`` And he 's as healthy as his father was , Sir Austin -- spite o ' the might ' a beens . 
` T 'd take a deal to do that , '' said Mrs. Berry , and harped on Master Richard 's health and the small wonder it was that he enjoyed it , considering the superior quality of his diet , and the lavish attentions of his mother , and then suddenly fell silent on a deep sigh . 
Thus , having capitulated , Raynham chose to acknowledge its new commandant , who was now borne away , under the directions of the housekeeper , to occupy the room Richard had slept in an infant . 
On the landing outside the door Lucy met a lady dressed in black , who stopped her and asked if she was Richard 's wife , and kissed her , passing from her immediately . 
She saw him go and bend over Richard the Second , and remain earnestly watching him . 
From that hour Richard burnt unread all the letters he received . 
He knew too well how easily he could persuade himself : words from without might tempt him and quite extinguish the spark of honourable feeling that tortured him , and that he clung to in desperate self-vindication . 
She met Richard accidentally in Paris ; she saw his state ; she let him learn that she alone on earth understood him . 
The consequence was that he was forthwith enrolled in her train . 
It soothed him to be near a woman . 
Did she venture her guess as to the cause of his conduct , she blotted it out with a facility women have , and cast on it a melancholy hue he was taught to participate in . 
She spoke of sorrows , personal sorrows , much as he might speak of his -- vaguely , and with self-blame . 
And she understood him . 
Lady Judith understood Richard , and he feeling infinitely vile , somehow held to her more feverishly , as one who dreaded the worst in missing her . 
The spirit must rest ; he was weak with what he suffered . 
Lady Judith is serene above it , but it frets at Richard when he is out of her shadow . 
Often wretchedly he watches the young men of his own age trooping to their work . 
You that mark those clouds of eventide , and know youth , will see the similitude : it will not be strange , it will barely seem foolish to you , that a young man of Richard 's age , Richard 's education and position , should be in this wild state . 
Had he not been nursed to believe he was born for great things ? 
So when Austin came Richard said he could not leave lady Judith , lady Judith said she could not part with him . 
For his sake , mind ! 
This Richard verified . 
Richard felt his safety in this which , to please the world , we must term Folly . 
Exhalation of vapours was a wholesome process to him , and somebody who gave them shape and hue a beneficent Iris . 
He told Austin plainly he could not leave her , and did not anticipate the day when he could . 
`` Why ca n't you go to your wife , Richard ? '' 
He welcomed Austin with every show of manly tenderness , and sadness at heart . 
Austin he had always associated with his Lucy in that Hesperian palace of the West . 
She resumed her ancient intimacy with Austin easily , while she preserved her new footing with Richard . 
Richard laughed . 
`` He 'll do for a nineteenth-century Arminius , '' Richard was saying . 
`` Richard has a son ? '' 
`` His modesty goes very far , '' said lady Judith , sweeping a curtsey to Richard 's paternity . 
Richard 's heart throbbed with violence . 
He looked again in Austin 's face . 
The moment the two men were alone , Richard said in a quick voice : `` Austin ! 
`` You did n't know it , Richard ? '' 
`` I tore up their letters , '' said Richard . 
Richard walked away , and then said : `` What is he like ? '' 
Where are the dreams of the Hero when he learns that he has a child ? 
Nature is taking him to her bosom . 
Richard fixed his eyes as if he were trying to make out the lineaments of his child . 
It was impossible for Richard to return ; his heart was surcharged . 
He must advance , and on he footed , the little dog following . 
Richard beheld a roe moving across a slope of sward far out of rifle-mark . 
Tongue out of mouth trotted the little dog after him ; couched panting when he stopped an instant ; rose weariedly when he started afresh . 
Richard mechanically sat down on the crumbling flints to rest , and listened to the panting of the dog . 
Sprinkled at his feet were emerald lights : hundreds of glow-worms studded the dark dry ground . 
He sat and eyed them , thinking not at all . 
His energies were expended in action . 
He sat as a part of the ruins , and the moon turned his shadow westward from the south . 
Overhead , as she declined , long ripples of silver cloud were imperceptibly stealing towards her . 
He did not observe them , or the leaves beginning to chatter . 
When he again pursued his course with his face set to the Rhine , a huge mountain appeared to rise sheer over him , and he had it in his mind to scale it . 
He got no nearer to the base of it for all his vigorous outstepping . 
The ground began to dip ; he lost sight of the sky . 
Then heavy thunder-drops struck his cheek , the leaves were singing , the earth breathed , it was black before him and behind . 
The mountain he had marked was bursting over him . 
He saw the country at the foot of the hills to the bounding Rhine gleam , quiver , extinguished . 
Then there were pauses ; and the lightning seemed as the eye of Heaven , and the thunder as the tongue of Heaven , each alternately addressing him ; filling him with awful rapture . 
Alone there -- sole human creature among the grandeurs and mysteries of storm -- he felt the representative of his kind , and his spirit rose , and marched , and exulted , let it be glory , let it be ruin ! 
Even in this , drenched as he was by the first outpouring , Richard had a savage pleasure . 
Keeping in motion he was scarcely conscious of the wet , and the grateful breath of the weeds was refreshing . 
Suddenly he stopped short , lifting a curious nostril . 
He fancied he smelt meadow-sweet . 
He had never seen the flower in Rhineland -- never thought of it ; and it would hardly be met with in a forest . 
He was sure he smelt it fresh in dews . 
His little companion wagged a miserable wet tail some way in advance . 
He went on slowly , thinking indistinctly . 
After two or three steps he stooped and stretched out his hand to feel for the flower , having , he knew not why , a strong wish to verify its growth there . 
Groping about , his hand encountered something warm that started at his touch , and he , with the instinct we have , seized it , and lifted it to look at it . 
Richard 's eyes , now accustomed to the darkness , were able to discern it for what it was , a tiny leveret , and he supposed that the dog had probably frightened its dam just before he found it . 
He put the little thing on one hand in his breast , and stepped out rapidly as before . 
So cool and easy had his mind become that he was speculating on what kind of shelter the birds could find , and how the butterflies and moths saved their coloured wings from washing . 
Folded close they might hang under a leaf , he thought . 
Lovingly he looked into the drippping darkness of the coverts on each side , as one of their children . 
Then he was musing on a strange sensation he experienced . 
It ran up one arm with an indescribable thrill , but communicated nothing to his heart . 
It was purely physical , ceased for a time , and recommenced , till he had it all through his blood , wonderfully thrilling . 
He grew aware that the little thing he carried in his breast was licking his hand there . 
The small rough tongue going over and over the palm of his hand produced this strange sensation he felt . 
Now that he knew the cause , the marvel ended ; but now that he knew the cause , his heart was touched and made more of it . 
The gentle scraping continued without intermission as on he walked . 
What did it say to him ? 
Richard was walking hurriedly . 
The green drenched weeds lay all about in his path , bent thick , and the forest drooped glimmeringly . 
Impelled as a man who feels a revelation mounting obscurely to his brain , Richard was passing one of those little forest - chapels , hung with votive wreaths , where the peasant halts to kneel and pray . 
They heard at Raynham that Richard was coming . 
Ripton did not say that he had employed his vacation holiday on purpose to use his efforts to induce his dear friend to return to his wife ; and finding Richard already on his way , of course Ripton said nothing to him , but affected to be travelling for his pleasure like any cockney . 
Richard also wrote her . 
In case she should have gone to the sea he directed her to send word to his hotel that he might not lose an hour . 
His letter was sedate in tone , very sweet to her . 
` Woman 's Reason is in the milk of her breasts , ' was one of his rough notes , due to an observation of Lucy 's maternal cares . 
Mrs. Berry zealously apprised him how early Master Richard 's education had commenced , and the great future Historian he must consequently be . 
`` Here my plan with Richard was false , '' he reflected : `` in presuming that anything save blind fortuity would bring him such a mate as he should have . '' 
He could admit now that Instinct had so far beaten Science ; for as Richard was coming , as all were to be happy , his wisdom embraced them all paternally as the author of their happiness . 
Between him and Lucy a tender intimacy grew . 
So Richard was crossing the sea , and hearts at Raynham were beating quicker measures as the minutes progressed . 
That night he would be with them . 
At Raynham they look up at the sky and speculate that Richard is approaching fairly speeded . 
He comes to throw himself on his darling 's mercy . 
Richard encouraged him to talk of the two he could be eloquent on , and Ripton , whose secret vanity was in his powers of speech , never tired of enumerating Lucy 's virtues , and the peculiar attributes of the baby . 
`` Against you , Richard ! 
Richard was too full of blame of himself to blame his father : too British to expose his emotions . 
Ripton divined how deep and changed they were by his manner . 
He had cast aside the Hero , and however Ripton had obeyed him and looked up to him in the heroic time , he loved him tenfold now . 
He told his friend how much Lucy 's mere womanly sweetness and excellence had done for him , and Richard contrasted his own profitless extravagance with the patient beauty of his dear home-Angel . 
He was not one to take her on the easy terms that offered . 
There was that to do which made his cheek burn as he thought of it , but he was going to do it , even though it lost her to him . 
Just to see her and kneel to her was joy sufficient to sustain him , and warm his blood in the prospect . 
Richard had a momentary idea of not driving to his hotel for letters . 
After a short debate he determined to go there . 
The first Richard opened was from Lucy , and as he read it , Ripton observed the colour deepen on his face , while a quivering smile played about his mouth . 
He then opened the other indifferently . 
Richard 's forehead darkened at the signature . 
Your health , Sir Richard . 
Richard ! 
my word of honour they have planned to carry her off , if Mount finds he can not seduce her . 
He 's one ; but he is not so bad as Brayder . 
Richard folded up the letter silently . 
`` Jump into the cab , '' he said to Ripton . 
`` Anything the matter , Richard ? '' 
Richard sat without speaking . 
His friend knew that face . 
He asked whether there was bad news in the letter . 
For answer he had the lie circumstantial . 
He ventured to remark that they were going the wrong way . 
`` It 's the right way , '' cried Richard , and his jaws were hard and square , and his eyes looked heavy and full . 
said Richard , taking the horse 's reins instead of the gentlemanly hand . 
His voice and aspect were quite friendly . 
He 's off this evening . '' 
`` He is in Town ? '' 
Richard released the horse . 
`` I want to see him . 
Where is he ? '' 
`` Want to see him ? 
Richard nodded back to him , crying , `` Hurry . '' 
`` What do you want to see lord Mountfalcon for , Richard ? '' 
`` I just want to see him , '' Richard replied . 
He had to wait there a space of about ten minutes , when Richard returned with a clearer visage , though somewhat heated . 
He stood outside the cab , and Ripton was conscious of being examined by those strong grey eyes . 
As clear as speech he understood them to say to him , `` You wo n't do , '' but which of the many things on earth he would not do for he was at a loss to think . 
As he was on the point of rushing after the galloping cab-horse to get a word of elucidation , he heard some one speak behind him . 
I must meet him , of course . 
-- I suppose he 's not quite mad ? '' 
Ripton had said that Richard was sure to come ; but the feminine eyes reading him ever and anon , had gathered matter for disquietude , which increased as time sped . 
`` He declared to me he would be certain to come , '' said Ripton ; but he could look at none of them as he said it , for he was growing aware that Richard might have deceived him , and was feeling like a black conspirator against their happiness . 
He determined to tell the Baronet what he knew , if Richard did not come by twelve . 
he asked Hippias in a modest voice . 
`` Time for me to be in bed , '' growled Hippias , as if everybody present had been treating him badly . 
Richard 's voice was heard in the hall . 
Richard had come . 
He was under his father 's roof , in the old home that had so soon grown foreign to him . 
He stood close to his wife and child . 
He might embrace them both : and now the fullness of his anguish and the madness of the thing he had done smote the young man : now first he tasted hard earthy misery . 
`` You are pale , Richard ? '' 
`` Richard ! 
`` The dreadful duel , Richard . '' 
is it done , Richard ? '' 
Getting no immediate answer , she continued -- and such was her agitation that the words were shaken by pieces from her mouth : `` Do n't pretend not to understand me , Richard ! 
Wondering how this woman could have divined it , Richard calmly said : `` It 's arranged -- the matter you allude to . '' 
`` Tell me -- '' but he broke away from her , saying : `` You shall hear the particulars tomorrow , '' and she , not alive to double meaning just then , allowed him to leave her . 
He had eaten nothing for twelve hours , and called for food , but he would only take dry bread and claret , which was served on a tray in the library . 
He said , without any show of feeling , that he must eat before he saw the younger Hope of Raynham : so there he sat , breaking bread , and eating great mouthfuls , and washing them down with wine , talking of what they would . 
His father 's studious mind felt itself years behind him , he was so completely altered . 
He had the precision of speech , the bearing of a man of thirty . 
he had asked , and Richard had replied with a strange indifference . 
And here -- oblige me by taking this , '' he handed Richard the enormous envelope containing what he had written that evening . 
he exclaimed humorously , slapping Richard on the shoulder . 
Richard shook his hand , and Ripton 's . 
The two men who knew what was hanging over him , spoke together outside . 
Certainly Richard was there , and while he was there he must be safe . 
So thought Ripton , and went to his bed . 
Mrs. Doria deliberated likewise , and likewise thought him safe while he was there . 
She only looked more deeply into Richard 's eyes , as she kissed him , praising Lucy , `` I have found a second daughter in her , dear . 
His father commenced the moment they were alone . 
Your wife has been a great comfort to her , Richard . 
He wished to gratify his son by these eulogies of Lucy , and some hours back he would have succeeded . 
Richard spoke sedately , but the irony was perceptible , and he could speak no other way , his bitterness was so intense . 
`` I think you very fortunate , '' said his father . 
Sensitive to tone and manner as he was , his ebullition of paternal feeling was frozen . 
Richard did not approach him . 
He leaned against the chimney-piece , glancing at the floor , and lifting his eyes only when he spoke . 
As he revolved his later history , and remembered how clearly he had seen that his father must love Lucy if he but knew her , and remembered his efforts to persuade her to come with him , a sting of miserable rage blackened his brain . 
But could he blame that gentle soul ? 
Whom could he blame ? 
His father ? 
`` Richard , '' said his father , coming close to him , `` it is late tonight . 
Richard coldly took his father 's extended hand . 
Not moving : looking fixedly at his father with a hard face on which the colour rushed , Richard said : `` A husband who has been unfaithful to his wife may go to her there , Sir ? '' 
It was horrible , it was cruel : it was uncalled for -- Richard knew that . 
He wanted no advice on such a matter , having fully resolved what to do . 
Yesterday he would have listened to his father , and blamed himself alone , and done what was to be done humbly before God and her : now in the recklessness of his misery he had as little pity for any other soul as for his own . 
`` What did you say , Richard ? '' 
Richard said : `` I told you all but the very words when we last parted . 
Angered at his callous aspect , his father cried : `` What brings you to her now ? '' 
He spoke from a wrathful heart : `` You will not dare to take her without -- '' `` No , Sir , '' Richard interrupted him , `` I shall not . 
A smile passed faintly over Richard 's face . 
He proposed to Richard to spare her . 
Vast is the distinction between women and men in this one sin , he said , and supported it with physical and moral citations . 
His argument carried him so far that to hear him one would have imagined he thought the sin in men small indeed . 
His words were idle . 
`` She must know it , '' said Richard sternly . 
Sir Austin detained him , expostulated , contradicted himself , confounded his principles , made nonsense of all his theories . 
He could not induce his son to waver in his resolve . 
Ultimately , their Good-night being interchanged , he understood that the happiness of Raynham depended on Lucy 's mercy . 
He had no fears of her sweet heart , but it was a strange thing to have come to . 
He remained in the library pondering over the question , at times breathing contempt for his son , and again seized with unwonted suspicion of his own wisdom : troubled , much to be pitied , even if he deserved that blow from his son which had plunged him into wretchedness . 
Richard went straight to Tom Bakewell , roused the heavy sleeper , and told him to have his mare saddled and waiting at the park gates East within an hour . 
The very name of the Island shocked Richard 's blood , and he had to walk up and down before he could knock at Lucy 's door . 
That infamous conspiracy to which he owed his degradation and misery scarce left him the feelings of a man when he thought of it . 
The soft beloved voice responded to his knock . 
He opened the door , and stood before her . 
Lucy was halfway towards him . 
In the moment that passed ere she was in his arms , he had time to observe the change in her . 
He had left her a girl : he beheld a woman -- a blooming woman : for pale at first , no sooner did she see him than the colour was rich and deep on her face and neck and bosom half shown through the loose dressing-robe , and the sense of her exceeding beauty made his heart thump and his eyes swim . 
each cried , and they clung together , and her mouth was fastened on his . 
His soul was drowned in her kiss . 
Supporting her , whose strength was gone , he , almost as weak as she , hung over her , and clasped her closer , closer , till they were as one body , and in the oblivion her lips put upon him he was free to the bliss of her embrace . 
Heaven granted him that . 
He placed her in a chair and knelt at her feet with both arms around her . 
Her bosom heaved ; her eyes never quitted him : their light as the light on a rolling wave . 
Richard had released her , and she took his hand , and he suffered himself to be led to the other side of the bed . 
His heart began rapidly throbbing at the sight of a little rosy-curtained cot covered with lace like milky summer cloud . 
It seemed to him he would lose his manhood if he looked on that child 's face . 
`` Stop , '' he cried suddenly . 
Lucy turned first to him , and then to her infant , fearing it should have been disturbed . 
said she , in alarm at his voice and the gripe he had unwittingly given her hand . 
Richard ! 
`` But you love me , Richard ? '' 
Richard stooped lower down to him , hungering for some movement as a sign that he lived . 
Lucy whispered : `` He sleeps like you , Richard -- one arm under his head . '' 
Great wonder , and the stir of a grasping tenderness was in Richard . 
He breathed quick and soft , bending lower , till Lucy 's curls , as she nestled and bent with him , rolled on the crimson quilt of the cot . 
The young mother whispered , blushing : `` He 's dreaming of me , '' and the simple words did more than Richard 's eyes to make him see what was . 
Then Lucy began to hum and buzz sweet baby-language , and some of the tiny fingers stirred , and he made as if to change his cosy position , but reconsidered , and deferred it , with a peaceful little sigh . 
Lucy whispered : `` He is such a big fellow . 
when you see him awake he is so like you , Richard . '' 
He did not hear her immediately : it seemed a bit of heaven dropped there in his likeness : the more human the fact of the child grew the more heavenly it seemed . 
His son ! 
his child ! 
should he ever see him awake ? 
At the thought he took the words that had been spoken , and started from the dream he had been in . 
`` Will he wake soon , Lucy ? '' 
I would have kept him awake for you , but he was so sleepy . '' 
Richard stood back from the cot . 
He thought that if he saw the eyes of his boy , and had him once on his heart , he never should have force to leave him . 
Then he looked down on him , again struggled to tear himself away . 
Two natures warred in his bosom , or it may have been the Magian Conflict still going on . 
He had come to see his child once , and to make peace with his wife before it should be too late . 
Might he not stop with them ? 
Might he not relinquish that devilish pledge ? 
Was not divine happiness here offered to him ? 
-- If foolish Ripton had not delayed to tell him of his interview with Mountfalcon all might have been well . 
For why was he thus base and spotted to the darling of his love ? 
`` Richard ! 
And taking his hand , innocently fondling it : `` Am I so changed from her he loved ? 
`` Go to his father , '' said Mrs. Berry . 
Richard had fought a duel in France with lord Mountfalcon , and was lying wounded at a hamlet on the coast . 
His father started immediately with his poor wife , and I followed in company with his aunt and his child . 
I remember that you said Richard had done wrong . 
But his father eclipsed his wrong in a greater wrong -- a crime , or quite as bad ; for if he deceived himself in the belief that he was acting righteously in separating husband and wife , and exposing his son as he did , I can only say that there are some who are worse than people who deliberately commit crimes . 
We told Richard that his wife was coming to him , and he could bear to hear it . 
Her last hold of reason was a thought for Richard . 
We deadened the sound as much as we could , but it was impossible to prevent Richard from hearing . 
He knew her voice , and it produced an effect like fever on him . 
Whenever she called he answered . 
Mrs. Berry sat with her , and I sat with him , and his father moved from one to the other . 
How to communicate it to Richard -- or whether to do so at all ! 
His father consulted with us . 
We were quite decided that it would be madness to breathe it while he was in that state . 
His father left us -- I believe he spent the time in prayer -- and then leaning on me , he went to Richard , and said in so many words , that his Lucy was no more . 
I thought it must kill him . 
He listened , and smiled . 
He said he had seen her die , as if he had passed through his suffering a long time ago . 
He shut his eyes . 
I could see by the motion of his eyeballs up that he was straining his sight to some inner Heaven . 
`` I think Richard is safe . 
Had we postponed the tidings till he came to his clear senses , it must have killed him . 
His father was right for once then . 
But if he has saved his son 's body , he has given the death-blow to his heart . 
Richard will never be what he promised . 
`` A letter found on his clothes tells us the origin of the quarrel . 
I can not say I think him exactly to blame : Richard forced him to fight . 
At least I do not select him the foremost for blame . 
He was deeply and sincerely affected by the calamity he has caused . 
he was only an instrument . 
That is just how Richard looks , as he lies there silent in his bed -- striving to image her on his brain . '' 
