Let me present to your Grace -- Mr. Coningsby . '' 
Before the result of this appeal to the Sovereign was known , for its effects were not immediate , on the second morning after the vote in the House of Lords , Mr. Rigby had made that visit to Eton which had summoned very unexpectedly the youthful Coningsby to London . 
Coningsby was not more than nine years of age when he lost his last parent ; and he had then been separated from her for nearly three years . 
But he remembered the sweetness of his nursery days . 
His mother too had written to him very frequently since he quitted her , and her fond expressions had cherished the tenderness of his heart . 
He wept very bitterly when his schoolmaster broke to him the news of his mother 's death . 
True it was , they had been long parted , and their prospect of again meeting was vague and dim ; but his mother seemed to him his only link to human society . 
It was something to have a mother , even if he never saw her . 
Other boys went to see their mothers ; he at least could talk of his . 
Now he was alone . 
His grandfather was to him only a name . 
It was the first time that name had been known to Coningsby . 
Mr. Rigby , who liked to be doing a great many things at the same time , and to astonish the Tadpoles and the Tapers with his energetic versatility , determined to superintend the education of Coningsby . 
It was in this refined retirement that Mr. Rigby found time enough , snatched from the toils of official life and parliamentary struggles , to compose a letter on the study of History , addressed to Coningsby . 
This change in the life of Coningsby contributed to his happiness . 
However , this connexion was on the whole a very agreeable one for Coningsby . 
Mr. Rigby was so clever that he contrived always to quarter Coningsby on the father of one of his school-fellows , for Mr. Rigby knew all his school-fellows and all their fathers . 
When Coningsby had attained his twelfth year , an order was received from Lord Monmouth who was at Rome , that he should go at once to Eton . 
There never was a youth who entered into that wonderful little world with more eager zest than Coningsby . 
Among the most intimate companions of Coningsby at Eton , was Lord Henry Sydney , his kinsman . 
Coningsby had frequently passed his holidays of late at Beaumanoir , the seat of the Duke , Lord Henry 's father . 
There might be some objection to grant leave to Coningsby at this moment ; but it was a rule with Mr. Rigby never to make difficulties , or at least to persuade his patron , that he , and he only , could remove them . 
It was certainly not without emotion , that Coningsby contemplated his first interview with his grandfather . 
All his experience of the ties of relationship , however limited , were full of tenderness and rapture . 
His memory often dwelt on his mother 's sweet embrace ; and ever and anon a fitful phantom of some past passage of domestic love haunted his gushing heart . 
The image of his father was less fresh in his mind ; but still it was associated with a vague sentiment of kindness and joy ; and the allusions to Mr. Coningsby in his mother 's letters had cherished these impressions . 
To notice lesser sources of influence in his estimate of the domestic tie , he had witnessed under the roof of Beaumanoir , the existence of a family bound together by the most beautiful affections . 
He could not forget how Henry Sydney was embraced by his sisters when he returned home ; what frank and fraternal love existed between his cousin and his elder brother ; how affectionately the kind Duke had welcomed his son once more to the house where they had both been born ; and the dim eyes and saddened brows , and tones of tenderness which rather looked than said farewell , when they went back to Eton . 
But Coningsby was to meet a relation , his nearest , almost his only , relation for the first time ; the relation too to whom he owed maintenance , education -- it might be said , existence . 
Even the imagination of the boy could not be insensible to its materials ; and Coningsby was picturing to himself a beneficent and venerable gentleman pressing to his breast an agitated youth , when his reverie was broken by the carriage stopping before the gates of Monmouth House . 
At its end , Coningsby beheld a Palladian palace with wings and colonnades encircling the court . 
Drawing this aside , Mr. Rigby opened a door and ushered Coningsby through an ante-chamber into a small saloon of beautiful proportion , and furnished in a brilliant and delicate taste . 
But Coningsby was so impressed with the impending interview with his grandfather , that he neither sought nor required diversion . 
Now that the crisis was at hand , he felt agitated and nervous ; and wished that he was again at Eton . 
The suspense was sickening , yet he dreaded still more the summons . 
He was not long alone ; the door opened -- he started -- grew pale -- he thought it was his grandfather ; it was not even Mr. Rigby . 
`` My name is Coningsby , '' said the boy . 
Coningsby sprang forward with that desperation which the scaffold requires . 
His face was pale ; his hand was moist ; his heart beat with tumult . 
He had occasionally been summoned by Dr. Keate ; that too was awful work , but compared with the present , a morning visit . 
Coningsby with an uncertain step followed his guide through a bed-chamber , the sumptuousness of which he could not notice , into the dressing-room of Lord Monmouth . 
Mr. Rigby , facing Coningsby as he entered , was leaning over the back of a large chair , from which as Coningsby was announced by the valet , the Lord of the house slowly rose , for he was suffering slightly from the gout , and his left hand rested on an ivory stick . 
Rising as we have mentioned when his grandson entered , and leaning with his left hand on his ivory cane , he made Coningsby such a bow as Louis Quatorze might have bestowed on the ambassador of the United Provinces . 
Then extending his right hand , which the boy tremblingly touched , Lord Monmouth said : `` How do you like Eton ? '' 
This contrast to the reception which he had imagined , hoped , feared , paralysed the reviving energies of young Coningsby . 
He felt stupified ; he looked almost aghast . 
In the chaotic tumult of his mind , his memory suddenly seemed to receive some miraculous inspiration . 
Mysterious phrases heard in his earliest boyhood , unnoticed then , long since forgotten , rose to his ear . 
Where was the intervening link of blood between him and this superb and icy being ? 
He was afraid that Coningsby was tender-hearted like his father . 
Another tender-hearted Coningsby ! 
He decided in his mind that Coningsby must be provided for in the Church , and looked at Mr. Rigby , whose principal business it always was to disembarrass his patron from the disagreeable . 
`` I was thinking , '' said Coningsby , `` of poor mamma ! '' 
In the meantime Lord Monmouth had decided on the fate of Coningsby . 
`` Come , '' said Mr. Rigby , when Coningsby was somewhat composed , `` come with me , and we will see the house . '' 
Coningsby alternately gazed up to ceilings glowing with colour and with gold , and down upon carpets bright with the fancies and vivid with the tints of Aubusson and of Axminster . 
`` This grandfather of mine is a great prince , '' thought Coningsby , as musing he stood before a portrait in which he recognised the features of the being from whom he had so recently and so strangely parted . 
There he stood , Philip Augustus , Marquess of Monmouth , in his robes of estate , with his new coronet on a table near him , a despatch lying at hand that indicated the special mission of high ceremony of which he had been the illustrious envoy , and the garter beneath his knee . 
`` Let me present to your Highness , '' said Rigby with an air of some ceremony , `` Mr. Coningsby . '' 
The young lady , who was really more youthful than Coningsby , but of a form and stature so developed , that she appeared almost a woman , bowed to the guest with some ceremony , and a faint sullen smile , and then proceeded with her chicken-pie . 
`` You must be so hungry after your drive , '' said the elder lady , placing Coningsby at her side , and herself filling his plate . 
`` There is nothing I should like so much , '' said Coningsby . 
The ladies bowed and retired ; Mr. Rigby returned to the Marquess , and the groom of the chambers led Coningsby to his room . 
This lady , so courteous to Coningsby , was the Princess Colonna , a Roman dame , the second wife of Prince Paul Colonna . 
Coningsby , who had lost the key of his carpet bag , which he finally cut open with a pen-knife that he found on his writing table , and the blade of which he broke in the operation , only reached the drawing-room as the figure of his grandfather , leaning on his ivory cane and following his guests , was just visible in the distance . 
He was soon overtaken . 
Perceiving Coningsby , Lord Monmouth made him a bow , not so formal a one as in the morning , but still a bow , and said , `` I hope you liked your drive . '' 
Nevertheless , owing probably to the absorbing powers of the forbidden subject , there were moments when it seemed that a pause was impending , and Mr. Ormsby , an old hand , seized one of these critical instants to address a good-natured question to Coningsby , whose acquaintance he had already cultivated by taking wine with him . 
It was the identical question which had been presented to Coningsby in the memorable interview of the morning , and which had received no reply ; or rather had produced on his part a sentimental ebullition that had absolutely destined or doomed him to the church . 
`` I should like to see the fellow who did not like Eton , '' said Coningsby , briskly , determined this time to be very brave . 
`` You had better come and try , Sir , '' said Coningsby . 
The Marquess looked at him , but said nothing . 
`` We had venison for dinner every week last season , '' said Coningsby , `` Buckhurst had it sent up from his park . 
`` I wish you could see Buckhurst and me at breakfast , '' said Coningsby , `` with a pound of Castle 's sausages ! '' 
inquired Lord Monmouth , in a tone of some interest , and for the first time calling him by his christian name . 
During this eventful week of May , 1832 , when an important revolution was effected in the most considerable of modern kingdoms , in a manner so tranquil , that the victims themselves were scarcely conscious at the time of the catastrophe , Coningsby passed his hours in unaccustomed pleasures and in novel excitement . 
Although he heard daily from the lips of Mr. Rigby and his friends that England was for ever lost , the assembled guests still contrived to do justice to his grandfather 's excellent dinners ; nor did the impending ruin that awaited them prevent the Princess Colonna from going to the opera , whither she very good-naturedly took Coningsby . 
Madame Colonna indeed gave such gratifying accounts of her dear young friend , that Coningsby became daily a greater favourite with Lord Monmouth , who cherished the idea that his grandson had inherited not merely the colour of his eyes , but something of his shrewd and fearless spirit . 
With Lucretia , Coningsby did not much advance . 
At the end of the week , Coningsby returned to Eton . 
On the eve of his departure , Lord Monmouth desired his grandson to meet him in his apartments on the morrow before Coningsby quitted his roof . 
Lord Monmouth gave Coningsby his blessing and ten pounds , desired that he would order a dress , anything he liked , for the approaching Montem , which Lord Monmouth meant to attend ; and informed his grandson that he should order that in future a proper supply of game and venison should be forwarded to Eton for the use of himself and his friends . 
After eight o'clock school , the day following the return of Coningsby , according to custom , he repaired to Buckhurst 's room , where Henry Sydney , Lord Vere , and our hero held with him their breakfast mess . 
The return of Coningsby , their leader alike in sport and study , inspired them today with unusual spirits , which , to say the truth were never particularly depressed . 
And , indeed , to do them justice , the last question was not the least exciting to them ; for the deep and cordial interest which all felt in Coningsby 's welfare far outweighed the curiosity which , under ordinary circumstances , they would have experienced on the return of one of their companions from an unusual visit to London . 
The report of their friend imparted to them unbounded satisfaction ; when they learned that his relative was a splendid fellow ; that he had been loaded with kindness and favours ; that Monmouth House , the wonders of which he rapidly sketched , was hereafter to be his home ; that Lord Monmouth was coming down to Montem ; that Coningsby was to order any dress he liked , build a new boat if he chose , and , finally , had been tipped in a manner worthy of a Marquess and a grandfather . 
`` By the bye , '' said Buckhurst when the hubbub had a little subsided , `` I am afraid you will not half like it , Coningsby : but , old fellow , I had no idea you would be back this morning , I have asked Millbank , to breakfast here . '' 
A cloud stole over the clear brow of Coningsby . 
`` Well , '' said Coningsby , as if sullenly resigned , `` never mind ; but why you should ask an infernal manufacturer ! '' 
said Coningsby ; `` if you knew what I did about Manchester ! 
`` Come -- come , Coningsby , '' said Lord Vere , the son of a Whig minister ; `` I am all for Manchester and Birmingham . '' 
`` It is all up with the country I can tell you , '' said Coningsby , with the air of one who was in the secret . 
`` Well -- you may depend upon it you will have it very soon , '' said Coningsby . 
He was a good-looking boy , somewhat shy , and yet with a sincere expression in his countenance . 
He was , evidently , not extremely intimate with those who were now his companions . 
He looked at Coningsby with some constraint , and then said : `` You have been in London , Coningsby ? '' 
`` It has not begun yet , '' said Coningsby . 
They were recounted in so fresh a spirit and in such vivid colours , that Coningsby lost nothing by his London visit . 
He had not that quick and brilliant apprehension , which , combined with a memory of rare retentiveness , had already advanced Coningsby far beyond his age , and made him already looked to as the future hero of the school . 
Though Coningsby was by a year his junior , they were rivals . 
This circumstance had no tendency to remove the prejudice which Coningsby entertained against him , but its bias on the part of Millbank had a very contrary effect . 
Now on no spirit had the influence of Coningsby , already the favourite , and soon probably to become the idol , of the school , fallen more effectually than on that of Millbank , though it was an influence that no one could suspect except its votary , or its victim . 
The secret of Millbank 's life was a passionate admiration and affection for Coningsby . 
Indeed Coningsby and himself were never companions , except in school , or in some public game . 
The demeanour of Coningsby gave no encouragement to intimacy to one , who , under any circumstances , would have required considerable invitation to open himself . 
It was his happiness to be in the same form , to join in the same sport with Coningsby ; occasionally to be thrown in unusual contact with him , to exchange slight and not unkind words . 
In their division they were rivals ; Millbank sometimes triumphed , but to be vanquished by Coningsby was for him not without a degree of wild satisfaction . 
Not a gesture , not a phrase from Coningsby , that he did not watch and ponder over and treasure up . 
Coningsby was his model , alike in studies , in manners , or in pastimes ; the aptest scholar , the gayest wit , the most graceful associate , the most accomplished playmate : his standard of the excellent . 
The favourite of the school like Coningsby , he could under no circumstances , ever have become ; nor was he qualified to obtain that general graciousness among the multitude , which the sweet disposition of Henry Sydney or the gay profusion of Buckhurst , acquired without an effort . 
A companionship with one who was Coningsby 's relative and most familiar friend , would at the first glance have appeared , independent of all other considerations , a most desirable result for Millbank to accomplish . 
Millbank suspected that Coningsby was not affected in his favour , and his pride recoiled from gaining by any indirect means , an intimacy which to have obtained in a plain and express manner , would have deeply gratified him . 
However the urgent invitation of Buckhurst and Henry Sydney , and the fear that a persistance in refusal might be misinterpreted into churlishness , had at length brought Millbank to their breakfast-mess , though when he accepted their invitation , he did not apprehend that Coningsby would have been present . 
`` Gone up the river with Coningsby and Henry Sydney . '' 
`` Well , Sir , I believe it was Mr. Coningsby . '' 
`` Coningsby -- Coningsby ! 
`` I very much fear so , '' said Boots ; `` as how the bargeman who told me , saw Mr. Coningsby in the lock-house laid out in flannels . '' 
`` I had sooner any fellow had been drowned than Coningsby , '' whispered one boy to another . 
`` I heerd Mr. Coningsby was a saving another 's life , '' continued Boots in his evidence , `` which makes it in a manner more sorrowful . '' 
`` Poor Coningsby ! '' 
`` It is all a false report ; an infernal lie ; Coningsby is quite safe , and nobody is drowned . '' 
`` Myself , Henry Sydney , Coningsby , Vere , and Millbank . 
About a quarter of a mile before we had got to Maidenhead Lock we pulled up ; Coningsby was then steering . 
The rest of us were opposed ; but after Millbank and Vere had gone about ten minutes , Coningsby , who was very fresh , said he had changed his mind and should go and bathe , too . 
So he left us . 
He had scarcely got to the pool when he heard a cry . 
He threw off his clothes and was in in a moment . 
He called out to Vere not to come and tried to swim off . 
But he was beat , and seeing he was in danger , Vere jumped in . 
Well , he just saved himself ; but Millbank sank as Coningsby jumped in . 
Coningsby caught Millbank when he rose ; but he found himself in the midst of the same strong current that had before nearly swamped Vere . 
What a lucky thing that he had taken it into his head not to pull to-day ! 
Fresher than Vere , he just managed to land Millbank and himself . 
The shouts of Vere called us , and we arrived to find the bodies of Millbank and Coningsby apparently lifeless , for Millbank was quite gone , and Coningsby had swooned on landing . '' 
`` If Coningsby had been lost , '' said Henry Sydney , `` I never would have shown my face at Eton again . '' 
Coningsby was soon all right ; but Millbank , I can tell you , gave us some trouble . 
But Coningsby was quite given up . 
Vere is with Millbank , and we are going back to Coningsby directly ; but we thought it best to show , finding on our arrival that there were all sorts of rumours about . 
I think it will be best to report at once to our tutor , for he will be sure to hear something . '' 
In what fanciful schemes to obtain the friendship of Coningsby had Millbank in his reveries often indulged ! 
But the moment that he entered the world of action , his pride recoiled from the plans and hopes which his sympathy had inspired . 
His sensibility and his inordinate self-respect were always at variance . 
And he seldom exchanged a word with the being whose idea engrossed his affection . 
And now , suddenly an event had occurred , like all events , unforeseen , which in a few brief , agitating , tumultuous moments , had singularly and utterly changed the relations that previously subsisted between him and the former object of his concealed tenderness . 
Millbank now stood , with respect to Coningsby , in the position of one who owes to another the greatest conceivable obligation ; a favour which time could permit him neither to forget nor to repay . 
Pride was a sentiment that could no longer subsist before the preserver of his life . 
The sense of past peril , the rapture of escape , a renewed relish for the life so nearly forfeited , a deep sentiment of devout gratitude to the Providence that had guarded over him , for Millbank was an eminently religious boy , a thought of home , and the anguish that might have overwhelmed his hearth ; all these were powerful and exciting emotions for a young and fervent mind , in addition to the peculiar source of sensibility on which we have already touched . 
The feat of Coningsby was extolled by all as an act of high gallantry and skill . 
`` Millbank is getting quite well , '' said Buckhurst to Coningsby a few days after the accident . 
I will go another day , '' replied Coningsby . 
So they went without him . 
I want to thank Coningsby ; I never shall rest till I have thanked Coningsby . '' 
`` Herbert is no match for Coningsby , '' said Millbank . 
`` If any fellow asks after me , '' said Millbank , `` tell him I shall be glad to see him . 
Notwithstanding the kind suggestions of Buckhurst and Henry Sydney , Coningsby could not easily bring himself to call on Millbank . 
He felt a constraint . 
It seemed as if he went to receive thanks . 
He would rather have met Millbank again in school , or in the playing fields . 
How it would have been had Millbank saved Coningsby 's life , is quite another affair . 
Probably , as Coningsby was by nature generous , his sense of justice might have struggled successfully with his painful sense of the overwhelming obligation . 
In this mood , the day after the visit of Buckhurst and Henry Sydney , Coningsby called on Millbank , but finding his medical attendant with him , Coningsby availed himself of that excuse for going away without seeing him . 
The next day he left Millbank a newspaper on his way to school , time not permitting a visit . 
Two days after , going into his room , he found on his table , a letter addressed to Harry Coningsby , Esq. . 
`` Dear Coningsby , `` I very much fear that you must think me a very ungrateful fellow because you have not heard from me before ; but I was in hopes that I might get out and say to you what I feel ; but whether I speak or write , it is quite impossible for me to make you understand the feelings of my heart to you . 
And all the Oppidans of the fifth form , among whom ranked Coningsby , class as `` Corporals ; '' and are severally followed by one or more lower boys , who are denominated `` Polemen , '' but who appear in their ordinary dress . 
it is Mr. Coningsby . '' 
`` I would give his fame , '' said Lord Monmouth ; `` if I had it , and my wealth -- to be sixteen . '' 
`` Lord Monmouth , '' said Mr. Rigby to Coningsby , `` wishes that you should beg your friends to dine with him . 
`` Why there is Vere , '' said Coningsby hesitating , `` and -- '' `` Vere ! 
`` There is another fellow I should like to ask very much , '' said Coningsby , `` if Lord Monmouth would not think I was asking too many . '' 
It was , of course , impossible for Coningsby to urge his wishes against such representations . 
He was disappointed -- rather amazed ; but Madame Colonna having sent for him to introduce her to some of the scenes and details of Eton life , his vexation was soon absorbed in the pride of acting in the face of his companions as the cavalier of a beautiful lady , and becoming the cicerone of the most brilliant party that had attended Montem . 
Even Lucretia deigned to appear amused ; especially when on visiting the upper school , the name of Cardiff , the title Lord Monmouth bore in his youthful days , was pointed out to her by Coningsby , cut with his grandfather 's own knife on the classic panels of that memorable wall in which scarcely a name that has flourished in our history , since the commencement of the eighteenth century , may not be observed with curious admiration . 
Considering all things , Coningsby and his friends exhibited a great deal of self-command ; but they were gay , even to the verge of frolick . 
He rallied Mr. Rigby roundly , and Coningsby , full of Champagne , and owing Rigby several years of contradiction , followed up the assault . 
The eldest son of this house was now on the continent ; of his two younger brothers , one was with his regiment , and the other was Coningsby 's friend at Eton , our Henry Sydney . 
`` It is three years since we have seen Mr. Coningsby , '' said the Duchess . 
`` Once he was often here . 
He was a great favorite of mine . 
Coningsby and Henry Sydney , and Buckhurst and Vere were still bound together by entire sympathy , and by the affection of which sympathy is the only sure spring . 
There had risen up between Coningsby and Millbank mutual sentiments of deep , and even ardent , regard . 
His thoughtful and inquiring mind , his inflexible integrity , his stern independence , and yet the engaging union of extreme tenderness of heart with all this strength of character , had won the good will , and often excited the admiration , of Coningsby . 
The friends of Coningsby , the sweet tempered and intelligent Henry Sydney , the fiery and generous Buckhurst , and the calm and sagacious Vere , had ever been favourably inclined to Millbank , and had they not been , the example of Coningsby would soon have influenced them . 
As for the dominion of Coningsby himself , it was not limited to the immediate circle of his friends . 
Coningsby liked very much to talk politics with Millbank . 
He heard things from Millbank which were new to him . 
Himself , as he supposed , a high Tory , which he was according to the revelation of the Rigbys , he was also sufficiently familiar with the hereditary tenets of his Whig friend , Lord Vere . 
Politics had as yet appeared to him a struggle whether the country was to be governed by Whig nobles , or Tory nobles ; and he thought it very unfortunate that he should probably have to enter life with his friends out of power , and his family boroughs destroyed . 
And although Millbank 's views , which were of course merely caught up from his father , without the intervention of his own intelligence , were doubtless crude enough , and were often very acutely canvassed and satisfactorily demolished by the clever prejudices of another school , which Coningsby had at command , still they were unconsciously to the recipient materials for thought , and insensibly provoked in his mind a spirit of inquiry into political questions , for which he had a predisposition . 
Among others , they fell upon the ear of Coningsby . 
Great were the obligations of Coningsby to this Eton Library . 
During the last year of his stay at Eton , when he had completed his eighteenth year , Coningsby led a more retired life than previously ; he read much , and pondered with all the pride of acquisition over his increasing knowledge . 
And now the hour has come when this youth is to be launched into a world more vast than that in which he has hitherto sojourned ; yet for which this microcosm has been no ill preparation . 
He will become more wise ; will he remain as generous ? 
His ambition may be as great ; will it be as noble ? 
Or is it a primordial and creative mind ; one that will say to his fellows , `` Behold , God has given me thought ; I have discovered truth ; and you shall believe ! '' 
The night before Coningsby left Eton , alone in his room , before he retired to rest , he opened the lattice and looked for the last time upon the landscape before him ; the stately keep of Windsor , the bowery meads of Eton , soft in the summer moon and still in the summer night . 
He gazed upon them ; his countenance had none of the exultation , that under such circumstances might have distinguished a more careless glance , eager for fancied emancipation and passionate for a novel existence . 
Its expression was serious , even sad ; and he covered his brow with his hand . 
Coningsby raised his eyes from the turf on which they had been long fixed in abstraction , and he observed that the azure sky had vanished , a thin white film had suddenly spread itself over the heavens , and the wind moaned with a sad and fitful gust . 
He had some reason to believe that on the other side of the opposite wood , the forest was intersected by a public road , and that there were some habitations . 
Immediately rising , he descended at a rapid pace into the valley , passed the lake , and then struck into the ascending wood of the bank opposite to that on which he had mused away some precious time . 
Coningsby hurried on , the forest became less close . 
All that he aspired to was to gain more open country . 
Now he was in a rough flat land covered only here and there with some dwarf underwood ; the horizon bounded at no great distance by a barren hill of moderate elevation . 
A place of refuge too was at hand : screened from his first glance by some elm trees , the ascending smoke now betrayed a roof which Coningsby reached before the tempest broke . 
There was a comfortable-looking kitchen enough ; but the ingle nook was full of smokers , and Coningsby was glad to avail himself of the only private room for the simple meal which they offered him . 
The remarkable beauty of the animal so attracted Coningsby 's attention , that it prevented him catching even a glimpse of the rider , who rapidly dismounted and entered the inn . 
The host shortly after came in and asked Coningsby whether he had any objection to a gentleman , who was driven there by the storm , sharing his room until it subsided . 
The consequence of the immediate assent of Coningsby was , that the landlord retired and soon returned ushering in an individual , who though perhaps ten years older than Coningsby , was still , according to Hippocrates , in the period of lusty youth . 
He was above the middle height , and of a distinguished air and figure ; pale , with an impressive brow , and dark eyes of great intelligence . 
`` The inn is a common home , '' replied Coningsby returning his salute . 
`` I never was in the Mediterranean , '' said Coningsby . 
`` You are travelling , '' rejoined his companion . 
exclaimed Coningsby . 
`` I have seen it , '' said the stranger , slightly shrugging his shoulders ; `` and more wonderful things . 
`` I have seen nothing , '' said Coningsby ; `` this is my first wandering . 
`` I fear that the age of adventures is past as well as that of ruins , '' replied Coningsby . 
`` She does not even look at us , '' said Coningsby when she had quitted the room ; `` and I dare say only a prude . '' 
They brought in Coningsby 's meal , and he invited the stranger to join him . 
`` 'T is but simple fare , '' said Coningsby as the maiden uncovered the still hissing bacon and the eggs that looked like tufts of primroses . 
said Coningsby . 
said Coningsby , offering him a plate which he had filled . 
`` 'T is but unsavory fare after a gallop , '' said Coningsby . 
`` But Ceres without Bacchus , '' said Coningsby , `` how does that do ? 
Coningsby , who was much interested by his new companion , enjoyed himself amazingly . 
Coningsby had never met or read of any one like this chance companion . 
His sentences were so short , his language so racy , his voice rang so clear , his elocution was so complete . 
On all subjects his mind seemed to be instructed , and his opinions formed . 
He flung out a result in a few words ; he solved with a phrase some deep problem that men muse over for years . 
He said many things that were strange , yet they immediately appeared to be true . 
Then , without the slightest air of pretension or parade , he seemed to know everybody as well as everything . 
Monarchs , statesmen , authors , adventurers of all descriptions and of all climes -- if their names occurred in their conversation , he described them in an epigrammatic sentence , or revealed their precise position , character , calibre , by a curt dramatic trait . 
Far from it ; he continually asked questions , and while he received answers , or had engaged his fellow traveller in any exposition of his opinions or feelings , he listened with a serious and fixed attention , looking Coningsby in the face with a steadfast glance . 
`` I perceive , '' said Coningsby , pursuing a train of thought which the other had indicated , `` that you have great confidence in the influence of individual character . 
inquired Coningsby . 
`` Parvenus do ; '' rejoined his companion , `` but not prophets , great legislators , great conquerors . 
urged Coningsby . 
exclaimed Coningsby , `` against a vast public opinion ? '' 
`` But when men are young , they want experience , '' said Coningsby ; `` and when they have gained experience , they want energy . '' 
`` It is at least a creed flattering to our years , '' said Coningsby with a smile . 
Do not suppose , '' he added smiling , `` that I hold that youth is genius ; all that I say is , that genius , when young , is divine . 
exclaimed the stranger , rising from his chair and walking up and down the room , `` the secret sway of Europe ! 
said Coningsby , `` I should like to be a great man ! '' 
The stranger threw at him a scrutinizing glance . 
His countenance was serious . 
He said in a voice of almost solemn melody : `` Nurture your mind with great thoughts . 
`` You seem to me a hero , '' said Coningsby in a tone of real feeling , which , half ashamed of his emotion , he tried to turn into playfulness . 
`` I long to see your mare again , '' said Coningsby . 
`` The Daughter of the Star '' stood before Coningsby with her sinewy shape of matchless symmetry ; her burnished skin , black mane , legs like those of an antelope , her little ears , dark speaking eye , and tail worthy of a Pacha . 
Coningsby was so naturally well-bred , that we may be sure it was not curiosity ; no , it was a finer feeling that made him hesitate and think a little , and then say : `` I am sorry to part . '' 
`` I hope we may meet again , '' said Coningsby . 
`` But mine is not worth preserving , '' said Coningsby earnestly . 
The stranger took the bridle of the `` Daughter of the Star , '' and turning round with a faint smile , extended his hand to his companion . 
`` Your mind at least is nurtured with great thoughts , '' said Coningsby , `` your actions should be heroic . '' 
He vaulted into his saddle , the `` Daughter of the Star '' bounded away as if she scented the air of the Desart from which she and her rider had alike sprung , and Coningsby remained in profound meditation . 
The day after his adventure at the Forest Inn , Coningsby arrived at Beaumanoir . 
It was several years since he had visited the family of his friend , who were indeed also his kin ; and in his boyish days had often proved that they were not unmindful of the affinity . 
For no less a character could Coningsby under any circumstances now consent to claim , since he was closely verging to the completion of his nineteenth year ; and it appeared manifest that if it were his destiny to do anything great , he had but few years to wait before the full development of his power . 
To nurture his mind with great thoughts had ever been Coningsby 's inspiring habit . 
Was it also destined that he should achieve the heroic ? 
Our young Coningsby reached Beaumanoir in a state of meditation . 
He also desired to be great . 
Coningsby found that he was born in an age of infidelity in all things , and his heart assured him that a want of faith was a want of nature . 
But his vigorous intellect could not take refuge in that maudlin substitute for belief which consists in a patronage of fantastic theories . 
He needed that deep and enduring conviction that the heart and the intellect , feeling and reason united , can alone supply . 
He asked himself why governments were hated , and religions despised ? 
These were indeed questions that had as yet presented themselves to his thought in a very crude and imperfect from ; but their very occurrence showed the strong pre-disposition of his mind . 
It was because he had not found guides among his elders that his thoughts and been turned to the generation that he himself represented . 
The sentiment of veneration was so developed in his nature , that he was exactly the youth that would have hung with enthusiastic humility on the accents of some sage of old in the groves of Academus , or the porch of Zeno . 
Mr. Rigby listened at first to the inquiries of Coningsby , urged , as they ever were , with a modesty and deference which do not always characterize juvenile investigations , as if Coningsby were speaking to him of the unknown tongues . 
Then he told Coningsby that want of religious Faith was solely occasioned by want of churches ; and want of Loyalty , by George IV . 
He assured Coningsby that the Church Commission was operating wonders , and that with private benevolence , -LRB- he had himself subscribed # 1000 , for Lord Monmouth -RRB- we should soon have churches enough . 
Finally , Mr. Rigby impressed on Coningsby to read the Quarterly Review with great attention ; and to make himself master of Mr. Wordy 's History of the late War in twenty volumes , a capital work , which proved that Providence was on the side of the Tories . 
Coningsby did not apply to Mr. Rigby again ; but worked on with his own mind , coming often enough to sufficiently crude conclusions , and often very much perplexed and harassed . 
One way or other however before he quitted Eton , there prevailed among this circle of friends , the initial idea doubtless emanating from Coningsby , an earnest , though a rather vague , conviction that the present state of feeling in matters both civil and religious was not healthy ; that there must be substituted for this latitudinarianism , something sound and deep , fervent and well defined , and that the priests of this new faith must be found among the New Generation ; so that when the bright-minded rider of the ` Daughter of the Star ' descanted on the influence of individual character , of great thoughts and heroic actions , and the divine power of youth and genius , he touched a string that was the very heart-chord of his companion , who listened with fascinated enthusiasm , as he introduced him to his gallery of inspiring models . 
Coningsby arrived at Beaumanoir at a season when men can neither hunt nor shoot . 
One of their sons-in-law and his wife , and Henry Sydney , completed the party . 
Something of this flitted over Coningsby 's mind , as he bowed , a little agitated from his surprise , to Lady Theresa Sydney . 
All that he remembered had prepared him for beauty ; but not for the degree or character of beauty that he met . 
Coningsby was a boy then as we described him in our first chapter . 
Though only nineteen now , he had attained his full stature , which was above the middle height , and time had fulfilled that promise of symmetry in his figure , and grace in his mien , then so largely intimated . 
Time too which had not yet robbed his countenance of any of its physical beauty , had strongly developed the intellectual charm by which it had ever been distinguished . 
As he bowed lowly before the Duchess and her daughter , it would have been difficult to image a youth of a mien more pre-possessing and a manner more finished . 
A manner that was spontaneous ; nature 's pure gift , the reflex of his feeling . 
Not one of those influences , the aggregate of whose sway produces , as they tell us , the finished gentleman , had ever exercised its beneficent power on our orphan , and not rarely forlorn , Coningsby . 
No clever and refined woman , with her quick perception , and nice criticism that never offends our self-love , had ever given him that education that is more precious than Universities . 
Not even the dancing-master had afforded his mechanical aid to Coningsby , who , like all Eton boys of this generation , viewed that professor of accomplishments with frank repugnance . 
But even in the boisterous life of school , Coningsby , though his style was free and flowing , was always well-bred . 
His spirit recoiled from that gross familiarity that is the characteristic of modern manners , and which would destroy all forms and ceremonies merely because they curb and control their own coarse convenience and ill-disguised selfishness . 
To women however Coningsby instinctively bowed as to beings set apart for reverence and delicate treatment . 
Little as his experience was of them , his spirit had been fed with chivalrous fancies , and he entertained for them all the ideal devotion of a Surrey or a Sydney . 
Instructed , if not learned , as books and thought had already made him in men , he could not conceive that there were any other women in the world than fair Geraldines and Countesses of Pembroke . 
`` It is impossible that Mr. Coningsby can remember me ? '' 
`` And you walked here , '' said Lady Everingham to Coningsby , when the stir of arranging themselves at dinner had subsided . 
`` Only think , papa , Mr. Coningsby walked here ! 
`` I had heard much of the forest , '' said Coningsby . 
`` But I had an adventure , '' said Coningsby . 
`` I dare say that Mr. Coningsby 's was more substantial . '' 
`` I met a most extraordinary man , '' said Coningsby . 
asked Coningsby . 
`` I certainly do not know the horse , '' said Mr. Lyle ; `` but if Mr. Coningsby would describe the rider , perhaps -- '' `` He is a man something under thirty , '' said Coningsby , `` pale , with dark hair . 
`` I wish that Mr. Coningsby would tell us some of the wonderful things he said , '' said the Duchess smiling . 
`` Take a glass of wine first with my mother , Coningsby , '' said Henry Sydney , who had just finished helping them all to fish . 
Coningsby had too much tact to be entrapped into a long story . 
He already regretted that he had been betrayed into any allusion to the stranger . 
He had a wild fanciful notion that their meeting ought to have been preserved as a sacred secret . 
But he had been impelled to refer to it in the first instance by the chance observation of Lady Everingham ; and he had pursued his remark from the hope that the conversation might have led to the discovery of the unknown . 
When he found that his inquiry in this respect was unsuccessful , he was willing to turn the conversation . 
In reply to the Duchess then , he generally described the talk of the stranger as full of lively anecdote and epigrammatic views of life ; and gave them , for example , a saying of a very illustrious foreign Prince , which was quite new and pointed , and which Coningsby told well . 
Coningsby , who had at first unintentionally taken a more leading part than he aspired to , would have retired into the background for the rest of the dinner , but Lady Everingham continually signalled him out for her questions , and as she sat opposite to him , he seemed the person to whom they were principally addressed . 
Lady Everingham was a disciple of the `` very little half hour '' school ; for as she gaily followed her mother , she said to Coningsby , whose happy lot it was to usher them from the apartment , `` Pray , do not be too long at the Board of Guardians to-day . '' 
For no sooner were they all again seated , than the Duke filling his glass , and pushing the claret to Coningsby , observed : `` I suppose Lord Monmouth does not trouble himself much about the New Poor Law ? '' 
`` Hardly , '' said Coningsby . 
asked Coningsby . 
urged Coningsby mildly . 
added Coningsby . 
`` What do you think , Coningsby , the other day we had a meeting in this neighbourhood to vote an agricultural petition that was to comprise all classes . 
Coningsby not experienced in feminine society , and who found a little difficulty from want of practice in maintaining conversation , though he was very desirous of succeeding , was delighted with Lady Everingham , who instead of requiring to be amused , amused him ; and suggested so many subjects , and glanced at so many topics , that there never was that cold awkward pause so common with sullen spirits and barren brains . 
Coningsby stood by the singers , or talked with them when the music had ceased ; and Henry Sydney looked over a volume of Strutt 's Sports and Pastimes , occasionally , without taking his eyes off the volume calling the attention of his friends to his discoveries . 
Mr. Lyle rose to depart , for he had some miles to return ; he came forward with some hesitation to hope that Coningsby would visit his bloodhounds , which Lord Henry had told him that Coningsby had expressed a wish to do . 
`` By the bye , '' said Coningsby , `` what sort of fellow is Eustace Lyle ? 
I am glad to have made his acquaintance , '' said Coningsby ; `` Is he clever ? '' 
A year younger than Gaston de Foix when he won Ravenna , and four years younger than John of Austria when he won Lepanto , '' observed Coningsby , musingly . 
The gay laugh of Lady Everingham rang frequently in the air ; often were her sunny eyes directed to Coningsby , as she called his attention to some fair object or some pretty effect . 
She played the hostess of Nature and introduced him to all the beauties . 
`` See , Coningsby , this battery on the Upper Park , '' said Lord Henry . 
`` It may be , '' said Coningsby . 
`` Manners are easy , '' said Coningsby , `` and life is hard . '' 
Lord Henry drove his mother ; Lord Everingham Lady Theresa ; Lady Everingham was attended by Coningsby . 
`` That chapel , '' said Coningsby , `` was a fine thing . '' 
Coningsby felt embarrassed ; he said something rather pointless about admiring everything that is beautiful . 
Coningsby felt that he was perhaps driving a Madame de Longueville . 
`` But I agree with Henry and Mr. Coningsby that Ceremony is not , as too commonly supposed , an idle form , I wish the people constantly and visibly to comprehend that Property is their protector and their friend . '' 
`` My fathers perilled their blood and fortunes for the cause of the Sovereignty and Church of England , '' said Lyle to Coningsby , as they were lying stretched out on the sunny turf in the park of Beaumanoir , `` and I inherit their passionate convictions . 
`` I believe , '' said Coningsby , `` that if Charles I had hanged all the Catholic priests that Parliament petitioned him to execute , he would never have lost his crown . '' 
What do you think of all this , Coningsby ? 
`` My dear fellow , '' said Coningsby , `` you have but described my feelings when you depictured your own . 
Coningsby was often the companion of herself and her sister in their pilgrimages of charity and kindness . 
He admired the graceful energy , and thorough acquaintance with details , with which Lady Everingham superintended schools , organized societies of relief , and the discrimination which she brought to bear upon individual cases of suffering or misfortune . 
He was deeply interested as he watched the magic of her manner , as she melted the obdurate , inspired the slothful , consoled the afflicted , and animated with her smiles and ready phrase , the energetic and the dutiful . 
In the society of these engaging companions , time for Coningsby glided away in a course which he sometimes wished nothing might disturb . 
Apart from them , he frequently felt himself pensive and vaguely disquieted . 
But to be their companion in ride or ramble ; to avoid any arrangement which for many hours should deprive him of their presence ; was every day with Coningsby a principal object . 
One day he had been out shooting rabbits with Lyle and Henry Sydney , and returned with them late to Beaumanoir to dinner . 
He had been dreamy , silent , had deeply felt the want of Lady Everingham 's conversation , that was ever so poignant and so interestingly personal to himself ; one of the secrets of her sway , though Coningsby was not then quite conscious of it . 
Talk to a man about himself , and he is generally captivated . 
That is the real way to win him . 
When Coningsby entered the drawing-room , there seemed a somewhat unusual bustle in the room , but as the twilight had descended , it was at first rather difficult to distinguish who was present . 
He soon perceived that there were strangers . 
Coningsby did not advance as was his custom ; he had a sort of instinct , that the stranger was discoursing of matters of which he knew nothing . 
He looked round , it was another stranger ; who said , however , in a tone of familiar friendliness : `` How do you do , Coningsby ? '' 
Old recollections , his intimate greeting , a strong family likeness , helped Coningsby to conjecture correctly who was the person who addressed him . 
He knew every thing of every body they cared about ; and Coningsby listened in silence to names which for the first time reached his ears , but which seemed to excite great interest . 
What a revelation to Coningsby of his infinite insignificance ! 
Coningsby entertained a great aversion for Mr. Melton , but felt his spirit unequal to the social contest . 
Coningsby 's coat was made by Stultz ; almost every fellow in the sixth form had his coats made by Stultz ; yet Coningsby fancied that his own garment looked as if it had been furnished by some rustic slopseller . 
He began to wonder where Mr. Melton got his boots from , and glanced at his own , which though made in St. James ' Street , seemed to him to have a cloddish air . 
She was very kind to Coningsby , but had no time to indulge in the lengthened conversations which he had previously found so magical . 
Coningsby began to think that Beaumanoir was not so delightful a place as he had imagined . 
He began to think that he had stayed there perhaps too long . 
He had received a letter from Mr. Rigby to inform him that he was expected at Coningsby Castle at the beginning of September , to meet Lord Monmouth who had returned to England , and for grave and special reasons was about to reside at his chief seat , which he had not visited for many years . 
Coningsby had intended to have remained at Beaumanoir until that time ; but suddenly it occurred to him , that the Age of Ruins was past , and that he ought to seize the opportunity of visiting Manchester , which was in the same county as the Castle of his grandfather . 
It was not the comely and courteous hostess of the Adelphi Hotel , Manchester , that gave occasion to these remarks , though she may deserve them , and though she was most kind to our Coningsby as he came in late at night very tired , and not in very good humour . 
Notwithstanding however all these novel incidents , Coningsby slept the deep sleep of youth and health , of a brain , which however occasionally perplexed by thought , had never been harassed by anxiety . 
He rose early , freshened and in fine spirits . 
And by the time the deviled chicken and the buttered toast , that mysterious and incomparable luxury , which only can be obtained at an inn , had disappeared , he felt all the delightful excitement of travel . 
Not a letter had Coningsby , not an individual in that vast city was known to him . 
He went to consult his kind hostess , who smiled confidence . 
He was to mention her name at one place , his own at another . 
From early morn to the late twilight , our Coningsby for several days devoted himself to the comprehension of Manchester . 
One evening , in the coffee-room of the hotel , having just finished his well-earned dinner , and relaxing his mind for the moment in a fresh research into the Manchester Guide , an individual , who had also been dining in the same apartment , rose from his table , and after lolling over the empty fire-place , reading the framed announcements , looking at the directions of several letters waiting there for their owners ; picking his teeth , he turned round to Coningsby and with an air of uneasy familiarity , said , `` First visit to Manchester , sir ? '' 
`` I am a traveller , '' said Coningsby . 
`` I fear you are speaking on a subject of which I know nothing , '' said Coningsby , smiling , `` I do not understand business at all ; though I am not surprised that being at Manchester you should suppose so . '' 
`` No , '' said Coningsby , `` I am nothing . '' 
`` And astonished , '' said Coningsby , `` I think in the whole course of my life I never saw so much to admire . '' 
`` I think I have seen everything , '' said Coningsby , rather eager and with some pride . 
said Coningsby . 
`` But after all , '' said Coningsby with animation , `` it is the machinery without any interposition of manual power that overwhelms me . 
It haunts me in my dreams , '' continued Coningsby . 
The stranger stared a little at the enthusiasm of his companion , and then picked his teeth . 
`` Of all the wonderful things here , '' said Coningsby , `` what on the whole , sir , do you look upon as the most wonderful ? '' 
said Coningsby . 
`` Dead and buried , '' said the stranger , accompanying his words with that peculiar application of his thumb to his nose , that signifies so eloquently that all is up . 
said Coningsby . 
`` I thought her only fault might be she was too much in advance of the rest of the country , '' said Coningsby very innocently . 
`` But the population of Manchester is increasing , '' said Coningsby . 
`` I am very sorry , '' said Coningsby , `` that I have only another day left ; but pray tell me , what would you recommend me most to see within a reasonable distance of Manchester ? '' 
said Coningsby ; `` what Millbank ? '' 
`` Unfortunately I am engaged to-morrow morning , '' said Coningsby , `` and yet I am most anxious , particularly anxious , to see Millbank . '' 
`` I think I could manage that , '' said Coningsby . 
And he presented Coningsby with his card as he wished him good night . 
The sun was declining when Coningsby arrived at Millbank , and the gratification which he experienced on first beholding it was not a little diminished , when on inquiring at the village , he was informed that the hour was past for seeing the works . 
Determined not to relinquish his purpose without a struggle , he repaired to the principal mill , and entered the counting-house , which was situated in one of the wings of the building . 
`` Quite impossible , sir , '' and the clerk withdrawing his glance , continued his writing . 
`` I am very unfortunate , '' said Coningsby . 
`` I think , Mr. Millbank would grant me permission , '' said Coningsby . 
He pointed to an inner counting-house , and the glass doors permitted Coningsby to observe several individuals in close converse . 
inquired Coningsby . 
Coningsby was content to sit down , though he grew very impatient at the end of a quarter of an hour . 
The ticking of the clock , the scratching of the pens of the three silent clerks , irritated him . 
He was about to pass through the counting-house with his companions with whom his affairs were not concluded , when he observed Coningsby , who had risen . 
he inquired of his clerk , who bowed assent . 
`` I beg your pardon , sir , '' said Coningsby , coming forward , and with an air of earnestness and grace that arrested the step of the manufacturer . 
Coningsby beheld in this great factory the last and the most refined inventions of mechanical genius . 
The clerk spoke freely of his master , whom he evidently idolized , and his great achievements , and Coningsby encouraged him . 
He detailed to Coningsby the plans which Mr. Millbank had pursued both for the moral and physical well-being of his people ; how he had built churches , and schools , and institutes ; houses and cottages on a new system of ventilation ; how he had allotted gardens ; established singing classes . 
`` Here is Mr. Millbank , '' continued the clerk , as he and Coningsby , quitting the factory , re-entered the court . 
`` Mr. Coningsby ? '' 
Coningsby bowed . 
Coningsby began to talk about the wonders of the factory , but Mr. Millbank recurred to other thoughts that were passing in his mind . 
He spoke of his son ; he expressed a kind reproach that Coningsby should have thought of visiting this part of the world without giving them some notice of his intention , that he might have been their guest , that Oswald might have made arrangements that he should see everything and in the best manner in short , that they might all have shown however slightly , the deep sense of their obligations to him . 
`` My visit to Manchester , which led to this was quite accidental , '' said Coningsby . 
It is some days since I ought to have found myself at Coningsby , and this is the reason why I am so pressed . '' 
Turning towards Coningsby , with an air of kindness : `` At least , '' said he , `` let not Oswald hear that you did not taste our salt . 
Coningsby lingered a moment to admire the beauty and gay profusion of the flowers . 
`` Your situation , '' said Coningsby , looking up the green and silent valley , `` is absolutely poetic . '' 
She came down slowly : as she approached them her father said : `` A friend you have often heard of Edith : this is Mr. Coningsby . '' 
She was delicate and fragile , but as she raised her still blushing visage to her father 's guest , Coningsby felt that he had never beheld a countenance of such striking and such peculiar beauty . 
`` My only daughter , Mr. Coningsby ; Edith ; a Saxon name , for she is the daughter of a Saxon . '' 
`` Mr. Coningsby , '' said Millbank to his daughter , `` is in this part of the world only for a few hours , or I am sure he would become our guest . 
He has , however , promised to stay with us now and dine . '' 
`` If Miss Millbank will pardon this dress , '' said Coningsby , bowing an apology for his inevitable frock and boots ; the maiden raised her eyes and bent her head . 
Millbank offered to show Coningsby to his dressing-room . 
He was absent but a few minutes . 
When he returned he found Miss Millbank alone . 
He came somewhat suddenly into the room . 
She was playing with her dog , but ceased the moment she observed Coningsby . 
Coningsby , who since his practice with Lady Everingham , flattered himself that he had advanced in small talk , and was not sorry that he had now an opportunity of proving his prowess , made some lively observations about pets and the breeds of lap-dogs , but he was not fortunate in extracting a response or exciting a repartee . 
He began then on the beauty of Millbank , which he would on no account have avoided seeing , and inquired when she had last heard of her brother . 
Dinner being announced , Coningsby offered his arm to his fair companion , who took it with her eyes fixed on the ground . 
`` You are very fond , I see , of flowers , '' said Coningsby , as they moved along ; and the young lady said , `` Yes . '' 
She looked at a chicken and then at Coningsby , and murmured something which he understood . 
Sometimes she informed herself of his tasted or necessities in more detail , by the medium of her father , whom she treated as a sort of dragoman ; in this way : `` Would not Mr. Coningsby , papa , take this or that , or do so and so ? '' 
Coningsby always was careful to reply in a direct manner without the agency of the interpreter ; but he did not advance . 
And yet when she had first seen him , she had addressed him even with emotion . 
He felt less confidence in his increased power of conversation . 
Why Theresa Sydney was scarcely a year older than Miss Millbank , and though she did not certainly originate like Lady Everingham , he got on with her perfectly well . 
He was really interested in what Coningsby had seen , and what he had felt ; and this sympathy divested his manner of the disagreeable effect that accompanies a tone inclined to be dictatorial . 
More than once Coningsby observed the silent daughter listening with extreme attention to the conversation of himself and her father . 
`` Those grapes have gained a medal , '' he told Coningsby . 
said Coningsby to Miss Millbank , wishing to say something , and something too that might interest her . 
He caught by chance her glance immediately withdrawn ; yet it was a glance not only of beauty , but of feeling and thought . 
said Coningsby . 
`` I hope I may return , '' said Coningsby , `` and that Millbank may be here to welcome me ; but I hope I may be permitted to return even if he be not . '' 
But there was no reply ; and soon after Mr. Millbank talking of the American market , and Coningsby helping himself to a glass of claret , the daughter of the Saxon , looking at her father , rose and left the room , so suddenly and so quickly that Coningsby could scarcely gain the door . 
`` Yes , '' said Millbank filling his glass , and pursuing some previous observations , `` all that we want in this country is to be masters of our own industry ; but Saxon industry and Norman manners never will agree ; and some day , Mr. Coningsby , you will find that out . '' 
inquired Coningsby . 
`` Exactly , '' said Coningsby , `` but those manners are gone . '' 
`` I know , sir , from your son , '' said Coningsby , inquiringly , `` that you are opposed to an aristocracy . '' 
`` But , sir , is not the aristocracy of England , '' said Coningsby , `` a real one ? 
`` But do you not argue from an exception , sir , '' said Coningsby . 
`` I have always understood , '' said Coningsby , `` that our peerage was the finest in Europe . '' 
But if your view of the case be correct , '' added Coningsby , smiling , `` you can not at any rate accuse our present peers of Norman manners . '' 
asked Coningsby . 
`` But then it would appear , '' said Coningsby , `` that the remedial action of our manners has removed all the political and social evils of which you complain ? '' 
Opposite Coningsby was a portrait , which had greatly attracted his attention during the whole dinner . 
The face was looking out of the canvass , and Coningsby never raised his eyes without catching its glance of blended vivacity and tenderness . 
It seems a fantastic emotion , but the gaze of this picture disturbed the serenity of Coningsby . 
`` Nay , '' thought Coningsby , `` she must be too old for that ! '' 
He addressed her and seated himself by her side . 
There were several dolls on the table , but he discovered , on examination , that they were pincushions ; and elicited with some difficulty , that they were making for a fancy fair about to be held in aid of that excellent Institution , the Manchester Athenum . 
Coningsby also quitted his seat , and surveyed the apartment . 
There were several musical instruments ; among others he observed a guitar ; not such an instrument as one buys in a music-shop , but such an one as tinkles at Seville ; a genuine Spanish guitar . 
Coningsby repaired to the tea-table . 
The tea-tray was removed ; Coningsby was conversing with Mr. Millbank , who was asking him questions about his son ; what he thought of Oxford ; what he thought of Oriel ; should himself have preferred Cambridge ; but had consulted a friend , an Oriel man , who had a great opinion of Oriel ; and Oswald 's name had been entered some years back . 
Coningsby , remembering the promise of the guitar , turned round to claim its fulfilment , but the singer had made her escape . 
Coningsby looked at his watch ; he had to go three miles to the train , which started , as his friend of the previous night would phrase it , at 9 -- 45 . 
`` Farewell , Mr. Coningsby , '' said his host , taking his hand , which he retained for a moment as if he would say more . 
Then leaving it , he repeated with a somewhat wandering air , and in a voice of emotion , `` Farewell -- farewell , Mr. Coningsby . '' 
Had he lived all his life at Coningsby , fulfilled every duty of a great English nobleman , benefited the county , loaded the inhabitants with favours , he would not have been half so popular as he found himself within a fortnight of his arrival with the worst county reputation conceivable , and every little squire vowing that he would not even leave his name at the castle to show his respect . 
It was not without emotion that Coningsby beheld for the first the castle that bore his name . 
It was visible for several miles before he even entered the park , so proud and prominent was its position , on the richly wooded steep of a considerable eminence . 
The declining sun threw over the pile a rich colour as Coningsby approached it , and lit up with fleeting and fanciful tints the delicate foliage , of the rare shrubs and tall thin trees that clothed the acclivity on which it stood . 
It was not without some degree of pride and satisfaction that the guest replied , `` Mr. Coningsby . '' 
It seemed to Coningsby that he was borne on the shoulders of the people to his apartment ; each tried to carry some part of his luggage ; and he only hoped his welcome from their superiors might be as hearty . 
It seemed to Coningsby in his way to his room , that the castle was in a state of great excitement ; everywhere bustle , preparation , moving to and fro , ascending and descending of stairs , servants in every corner ; orders boundlessly given , rapidly obeyed ; many desires , equal gratification . 
All this made him rather nervous . 
Coningsby had never before been in a great house full of company . 
The sight of the servants bewildered him ; how then was he to encounter their masters ? 
That however he must do in a moment . 
Coningsby for the first time in his life was at a great party . 
The speaker was not visible ; he was at a distance surrounded by a wondering group whom he was severally and collectively contradicting , but Coningsby could not mistake the harsh , high tones of that arrogant voice . 
He was not sorry indeed that Mr. Rigby did not observe him . 
Coningsby never loved him particularly , which was rather ungrateful , for he was a person who had been kind , and on the whole , serviceable to him , but Coningsby writhed , and especially as he grew older , under Mr. Rigby 's patronising air and paternal tone . 
Even in old days though attentive , Coningsby had never found him affectionate . 
It seemed to Coningsby that it was always contrived that he should appear the `` protg '' or poor relation , of a dependent of his family . 
These feelings , which the thought of Mr. Rigby had revived , caused our young friend , by an inevitable association of ideas , to remember that , unknown and unnoticed as he might be , he was the only Coningsby in that proud Castle , except the Lord of the castle himself ; and he began to be rather ashamed of permitting a sense of his inexperience in the mere forms and fashions of society so to oppress him , and deprive him as it were of the spirit and carriage which became alike his character and his position . 
Emboldened and greatly restored to himself , Coningsby advanced into the body of the saloon . 
On his legs , wearing his blue riband and bending his head frequently to a lady who was seated on a sofa and continually addressed him , Coningsby recognised his grandfather . 
Lord Monmouth was somewhat balder than four years ago , when he had come down to Montem , and a little more portly perhaps ; but otherwise unchanged . 
For Coningsby , not only the chief of his house , but his host too . 
In either capacity he ought to address Lord Monmouth . 
And if Coningsby advanced and bowed , in all probability he would only get a bow in return . 
To announce himself as Coningsby , as his Lordship 's grandson , seemed somewhat ridiculous . 
To address his grandfather as Lord Monmouth would serve no purpose ; to style Lord Monmouth `` grandfather , '' would make every one laugh and seemed stiff and unnatural . 
There ran through Coningsby 's character , as we have before mentioned , a vein of simplicity which was not its least charm . 
The Duchess who was a fine judge of character , and who greatly regarded Coningsby , often mentioned this trait as one which , combined with his great abilities and acquirements so unusual at his age , rendered him so very interesting . 
In the present instance it so happened , that while Coningsby was watching his grandfather , he observed a gentleman advance , make his bow , say and receive a few words , and retire . 
This little incident however made a momentary diversion in the immediate circle of Lord Monmouth , and before they could all resume their former talk and fall into their previous positions , an impulse sent forth Coningsby , who walked up to Lord Monmouth , and standing before him , said : `` How do you do , grandpapa ? '' 
All these impressions and ideas , and many more , passed through the quick brain of Lord Monmouth ere the sound of Coningsby 's words had seemed to cease , and long before the surrounding guests had recovered from the surprise which they had occasioned them ; and which did not diminish when Lord Monmouth advancing placed his arms round Coningsby with a dignity of affection that would have become Louis XIV , and then in the high manner of the old Court kissed him on each cheek . 
Then Lord Monmouth led the agitated Coningsby to the great Lady who was a Princess and an Ambassadress , and then placing his arm gracefully in that of his grandson he led him across the room , and presented him in due form to some royal blood that was his guest in the shape of a Russian Archduke . 
The Prince and Princess Colonna and the Princess Lucretia were also paying a visit to the Marquess ; and the frequency of these visits made some strait-laced magnificoes mysteriously declare it was impossible to go to Coningsby ; but as they were not asked it did not much signify . 
A new scene this for Coningsby , who watched with interest all that passed before him . 
The dinner was announced as served ; an affectionate arm guides him at a moment of some perplexity . 
inquired Mr. Rigby , who spoke as if he had seen Coningsby for the first time ; but who indeed had , with that eye which nothing could escape , observed his reception by his grandfather , marked it well , and inwardly digested it . 
Lord Monmouth having written to Mr. Rigby of his intention to reside for some months at Coningsby , and having mentioned that he wished a troop of French comedians to be engaged for the summer , Mr. Rigby had immediately consulted Lord Eskdale on the subject , as the best current authority . 
Villebecque and his little troop had now been a month at Coningsby , and had hitherto performed three times a week . 
And the night of Coningsby 's arrival at the castle was to witness in its private theatre the first appearance of Mademoiselle Flora . 
A lady on the arm of the Russian Prince bestowed on Coningsby a haughty , but not ungracious , bow ; which he returned , unconscious of the person to whom he bent . 
Coningsby watched her as she swept along like a resistless Fate . 
The Archduke offered his arm to the Ambassadress ; the rest were following ; Coningsby was called . 
said the Princess to Coningsby . 
She looked younger than Coningsby when he went up to his grand-papa . 
Coningsby had sat very near the stage ; he had observed with great advantage and attention the countenance and movements of Flora from the beginning . 
He was fully persuaded that her woe was genuine and profound . 
He had felt his eyes moist when she had wept . 
He recoiled from the cruelty and the callousness that , without the slightest symptom of sympathy , could leave a young girl who had been labouring for their amusement and who was suffering for her trial . 
He got on the stage , ran behind the scenes , and asked for Mlle. Flora . 
They pointed to a door ; he requested permission to enter . 
`` I took the liberty , '' said Coningsby , `` of inquiring after Mlle. Flora ; '' and then advancing to her , who had raised her head , he added : `` I am sure my grandfather must feel much indebted to you , Mademoiselle , for making such exertions when you were suffering under so much indisposition . '' 
`` This is very amiable of you , sir , '' said the young lady , looking at him with earnestness . 
`` And yet that must be the soul of fine acting , '' said Coningsby ; `` I look forward -- all look forward -- with great interest to the next occasion on which you will favour us . '' 
`` Mademoiselle is not aware at this moment , '' said Coningsby , `` how much her talent is appreciated . 
I assure you , sir , '' he added , turning to Villebecque , `` I heard but one opinion , but one expression of gratification at her feeling and her fine taste . '' 
`` Indeed you have reason to say so , '' said Coningsby . 
`` Nay , Mademoiselle , '' said Coningsby advancing and venturing to take her hand , a soft hand , `` make no such resolutions to-night . 
`` All must respect those who respect themselves , '' said Coningsby . 
He bowed to Villebecque and retired . 
Coningsby returned to brilliancy , groups apparently gushing with lightheartedness , universal content , and Russian dances ! 
`` And you too , do you dance the Russian dances , Mr. Coningsby ? '' 
`` I can not dance at all , '' said Coningsby , beginning a little to lose his pride in the want of an accomplishment which at Eton he had thought it spirited to despise . 
She had amused the Marquess abroad , and had taken care to call at Monmouth House , the instant the Morning Post apprised her he had arrived in England ; the consequence was an invitation to Coningsby . 
Nothing could present a greater contrast than the respective interiors of Coningsby and Beaumanoir . 
That air of habitual habitation , which so pleasingly distinguished the Duke 's family seat , was entirely wanting at Coningsby . 
The Marquess sent for Coningsby the morning after his arrival and asked him to breakfast with him in his private rooms . 
He appeared to be very interested in his grandson 's progress , was glad to find Coningsby had distinguished himself at Eton , solemnly adjured him not to neglect his French . 
A classical education , he said , was a very admirable thing , and one which all gentlemen should enjoy ; but Coningsby would find some day that there were two educations , one which his position required , and another which was demanded by the world . 
`` French , my dear Harry , '' he continued , `` is the key to this second education . 
Lord Monmouth had invited Coningsby to take a drive with him in the afternoon . 
This invitation was readily accepted by Coningsby , who was not yet sufficiently established in the habits of the house exactly to know how to pass his morning . 
His friend and patron Mr. Rigby was entirely taken up with the Archduke , whom he was accompanying all over the neighbourhood , in visits to manufactures , many of which Rigby himself saw for the first time , but all of which he fluently explained to his Imperial Highness . 
When the hour for the drive arrived , Coningsby found Lucretia , a young girl when he had first seen her only four years back , and still his junior , in that majestic dame who had conceded a superb recognition to him the preceding eve . 
She really looked older than Madame Colonna ; who , very beautiful , very young looking , and mistress of the real arts of the toilette , those that can not be detected , was not in the least altered since she first so cordially saluted Coningsby , as her dear young friend at Monmouth House . 
Coningsby occasionally took advantage of one of those moments , when the conversation ceased to be general , to address Lucretia , who replied in calm , fine , smiles , and in affable monosyllables . 
`` That is Hellingsley ; it is one of the finest places in the county , with a splendid estate ; not so considerable as Coningsby , but very great . 
Coningsby , who was not experienced in fine singing , listened as if to a supernatural lay , but all agreed it was of the highest class of nature and of art ; and the Archduke was in raptures . 
Lucretia received even his Highness 's compliments with a graceful indifference . 
Madame Colonna , who was always extremely kind to Coningsby , expressed to him her gratification from the party of the morning . 
It must have been delightful , she assured Coningsby , for Lord Monmouth to have had both Lucretia and his grandson with him ; and Lucretia too , she added , must have been so pleased . 
Coningsby could not make out why Madame Colonna was always intimating to him that the Princess Lucretia took such great interest in his existence , looked forward with such gratification to his society , remembered with so much pleasure the past , anticipated so much happiness from the future . 
He was never without a companion to ride or to shoot with ; and of riding Coningsby was very fond . 
His grandfather too was continually giving him good-natured turns , and making him of consequence in the castle ; so that all the guests were fully impressed with the importance of Lord Monmouth 's grandson . 
Lady St. Julians pronounced him distinguished ; the Ambassadress thought diplomacy should be his part as he had a fine person and a clear brain ; Madame Colonna spoke of him always as if she took intense interest in his career , and declared that she liked him almost as much as Lucretia did ; the Russians persisted in always styling him `` the young Marquess , '' notwithstanding the Ambassador 's explanations ; Mrs. Guy Flouncey made a dashing attack on him ; but Coningsby remembered a lesson which Lady Everingham had graciously bestowed on him . 
At the end of the first week after Coningsby 's arrival , Lord Eskdale appeared , bringing with him Lucian Gay ; and soon after followed the Marquess of Beaumanoir , and Mr. Melton . 
But Coningsby never omitted an opportunity to show Flora some kindness under these circumstances . 
He always came and talked to her , and praised her singing , and would sometimes hand her refreshments and give her his arm if necessary . 
For in truth Coningsby had no other impulse for his conduct but kind-heartedness . 
Thus we have attempted to give some faint idea how life glided away at the castle the first fortnight that Coningsby passed there . 
At length one day Coningsby met Madame Colonna in the vestibule before dinner . 
`` Milor is in such good temper , Mr. Coningsby , '' she said ; `` Monsieur de Sidonia has arrived . '' 
Coningsby looked round . 
He saw the Archduke advancing , and holding out his hand in a manner the most gracious . 
A gentleman , of distiguished air , but with his back turned to Coningsby , was bowing as he received his Highness 's greeting . 
Coningsby could not resist the impulse of curiosity to see this individual of whom he had heard so much . 
He glided round the room , and caught the countenance of his companion in the forest inn ; he who announced to him , that `` the Age of Ruins was past . '' 
At dinner Coningsby was seated on the same side as Sidonia , and distant from him . 
As the gentlemen left the dining-room , Coningsby though at some distance was observed by Sidonia , who stopped instantly , then advanced to Coningsby and extending his hand , said , `` I said we should meet again , though I hardly expected so quickly . '' 
`` And I hope we shall not separate so soon , '' said Coningsby ; `` I was much struck with what you said just now about the Reform Bill . 
Coningsby instead talked nonsense to that lady . 
asked Sidonia of his companion rather earnestly , as Coningsby quitted them . 
`` 'T is the grandson of Monmouth ; young Coningsby . '' 
said Mrs. Guy Flouncey to Coningsby . 
how very gallant , Mr. Coningsby ! '' 
said Coningsby . 
Now tell me , Mr. Coningsby , Lord Henry Sydney is a very great friend of yours ? '' 
`` He is very amiable ? '' 
`` He does a great deal for the poor at Beaumanoir ? 
`` As fine as Coningsby ? '' 
`` At present with Mrs. Guy Flouncey at Coningsby , Beaumanoir would have no chance . '' 
Now tell me , Mr. Coningsby , what do you think we shall do to-night ? 
`` You shall decide , '' said Coningsby . 
`` I assure you she can , '' said Coningsby . 
So Coningsby unwillingly approached Lucretia who was talking with the Russian Ambassador . 
`` I am sent upon a fruitless mission , '' said Coningsby looking at her , and catching her glance . 
`` I must presume then to lead you away , '' said Coningsby bending to the Ambassador . 
`` It is impossible ever to forget it , '' said Coningsby leading her to the piano with great politeness , but only with great politeness . 
Coningsby found `` La Petite '' crouching as it were behind some furniture , and apparently looking over some music . 
She looked up as he approached , and a smile stole over her countenance . 
`` I am come to ask a favour , '' he said , and he named his request . 
Coningsby felt the difference between the courtesy of the head and of the heart , as he contrasted the manner of Lucretia and Flora . 
Nothing could be more exquisitely gracious than the daughter of Colonna was to-night ; Flora , on the contrary , was rather agitated and embarrassed ; and did not express her readiness with half the facility and the grace of Lucretia ; but Flora 's arm trembled as Coningsby led her to the piano . 
The evening glided on ; the dance succeeded the song ; the ladies were fast vanishing ; Coningsby himself was meditating a movement , when the young Marquess as he passed him said , `` Come to Lucian Gay 's room ; we are going to smoke a cigar . '' 
To-night , being Coningsby 's initiation , there was a special general meeting of the Grumpy Club , in which everybody was to say the gayest things with the gravest face , and every laugh carried a forfeit . 
Instantly there was a dead silence -- '' but here Coningsby , who had moved for sometime very restlessly on his chair suddenly started up , and struggling for a moment against the inward convulsion but in vain , stamped against the floor and gave a shout . 
`` A song from Mr. Coningsby , '' said the president of the Grumpy Club amid an universal and now permissible roar of laughter . 
Coningsby could not sing ; so he was to favour them as a substitute with a speech or a sentiment . 
Song , speech , or sentiment , he poured them all forth ; nor were pastimes more active wanting . 
He could dance a Tarantalla like a Lazaroni , and execute a Cracovienne with all the mincing graces of an Opera heroine . 
His powers of mimicry indeed were great and versatile . 
But in nothing was he so happy as in a Parliamentary debate . 
As the night grew old however , and every hour he grew more lively , he suddenly broke without further pressure into the promised diversion ; and Coningsby listened really with admiration to a discussion , of which the only fault was that it was more Parliamentary than the original ; `` plus Arabe que l'Arabie . '' 
And Coningsby had the pleasure of seeing reproduced before him the guardian of his youth , and the patron of the mimic -- the Right Honourable Nicholas Rigby ! 
Madame Colonna with that vivacious energy which characterises the south , had no sooner seen Coningsby , and heard his praises celebrated by his grandfather , than she resolved that an alliance should sooner or later take place between him and her step-daughter . 
She had no conviction that either Coningsby would wish to marry her , or if willing , that his grandfather would sanction such a step in one as yet only on the threshold of the world . 
Although really younger than Coningsby , Lucretia felt that a woman of eighteen is in all worldly considerations , ten years older than a youth of the same age . 
She anticipated that a considerable time might elapse before Coningsby would feel it necessary to seal his destiny by marriage , while on the other hand , she was not only anxious , but resolved , not to delay on her part her emancipation from the galling position in which she very frequently found herself . 
Faithful to her first impressions , Lucretia had made no difference in her demeanour to Coningsby to that which she offered to the other guests . 
Polite , but uncommunicative ; ready to answer , but never originating conversation ; she charmed him as little by her manner as by her person ; and after some attempts not very painstaking to interest her , Coningsby had ceased to address her . 
When however Lucretia observed that Coningsby had become one of the most notable persons in the castle ; when she heard everywhere of his talents and accomplishments , his beauty and grace and great acquirements , and perceived that he was courted by all ; that Lord Monmouth omitted no occasion publicly to evince towards him his regard and consideration ; that he seemed generally looked upon in the light of his grandfather 's heir , and that Lady St. Julians , more learned in that respect than any lady in the kingdom , was heard more than once to regret that she had not brought another daughter with her , Clara Isabella as well as Augustina ; the Princess Lucretia began to imagine that Madame Colonna after all , might not be so extravagant in her purpose , as she had first supposed . 
She therefore surprised Coningsby with the almost affectionate moroseness with which , while she hated to sing , she yet found pleasure in singing for him alone . 
And it is impossible to say what might not have been the next move in her tactics in this respect , had not the very night on which she had resolved to commence the enchantment of Coningsby , introduced to her Sidonia . 
Between Sidonia and Coningsby there at once occurred companionship . 
The morning after his arrival they went out shooting together . 
After a long ramble they would stretch themselves on the turf under a shady tree , often by the side some brook where the cresses grow , that added a luxury to their sporting meal , and then Coningsby would lead their conversation to some subject on which Sidonia would pour out his mind with all that depth of reflection , variety of knowledge , and richness of illustrative memory , which distinguished him ; and which offered so striking a contrast to the sharp talent , the shallow information , and the worldly cunning that make a Rigby . 
This fellowship between Sidonia and Coningsby elevated the latter still more in the estimation of Lucretia , and rendered her still more desirous of gaining his good will and opinion . 
He was however a great friend of Mr. Coningsby , his presence and society brought Coningsby and Lucretia more together ; and however flattered her daughter might be for the moment by Sidonia 's homage , still as she would ultimately find out , if indeed she ever cared so to do , that Sidonia could only be her admirer , Madame Colonna had no kind of doubt , that ultimately Coningsby would be Lucretia 's husband , as she had arranged from the first . 
Now she would ride with Sidonia and Coningsby , and as a female companion was indispensable , she insisted upon `` La Petite '' accompanying her . 
This was a fearful trial for Flora , but she encountered it , encouraged by the kind solicitude of Coningsby , who always seemed her friend . 
`` You will observe one curious trait , '' said Sidonia to Coningsby , `` in the history of this country ; the depositary of power is always unpopular , all combine against it , always it falls . 
`` Neither , '' said Coningsby ; `` I wish to see a people full of faith , and a government full of duty . '' 
`` I am speaking to elicit truth , not to maintain opinions , '' said Coningsby ; `` for I have none , '' he added mournfully . 
`` I have emancipated myself from that darkness for a long time , '' said Coningsby . 
A young guardsman who was then a guest at the Castle , and who had been in garrison in Ireland , had some experience of this pastime in the Kildare country , and he proposed that they should have a steeple chase at Coningsby . 
From a hill of common land you looked down upon the valley of Coningsby richly cultivated ; deeply ditched and stiffly fenced ; the valley was bounded by another rising ground , and the scene was admirably calculated to give an extensive view to a multitude . 
The neighbourhood had a week of preparation , and the entries for the Coningsby steeple-chase were numerous . 
Coningsby was all anxiety to win . 
He was proud of the confidence of his grandfather in backing him . 
He had a powerful horse and a first-rate fencer , and he was resolved himself not to flinch . 
On the night before the race retiring somewhat earlier than usual to his chamber , he observed on his dressing-table a small packet addressed to his name , and in an unknown hand-writing . 
Opening it he found a very pretty jockey whip embroidered with his colours of pink and white . 
This was a perplexing circumstance , but he fancied it on the whole a happy omen . 
Coningsby recognised the Daughter of the Star . 
Coningsby alone clearly lighted on the opposing bank ; but for the rest of them , it seemed for a moment , that they were all in the middle of the brook , one over another , splashing , kicking , swearing ; every one trying to get out and keep others in . 
Coningsby was in front ; Sidonia and the Marquess following ; Mr. Melton had gone the wrong side of a flag , and the stout yeoman , though close at hand , was already trusting much to his spurs . 
Coningsby , Sidonia , and the Marquess were now altogether . 
Coningsby gallantly dashed forward and sent Sir Robert at the gate , but he had over-estimated his horse 's powers at this point of the game , and a rattling fall was the consequence : however , horse and rider were both on the right side , and Coningsby was in his saddle again , and near at hand . 
The Daughter of the Star , who was still going beautifully , pulling freely , and her jockey sitting still , sprang over the gap and went in first , Coningsby on Sir Robert being placed second . 
Lord Monmouth was well content with the prowess of his grandson , and his extreme cordiality consoled Coningsby under a defeat , which was very vexatious . 
`` You rode well , '' said Sidonia to Coningsby ; `` but your horse was more strong than swift . 
Lord Monmouth beckoned to Coningsby to sit by him on the sofa , and spoke of his approaching University life . 
He gave his grandson a great deal of good advice : told him to avoid drinking , especially if he ever chanced to play cards , which he hoped he never would ; urged the expediency of never borrowing money , and of confining his loans to small sums and then only to friends of whom he wished to get rid ; most particularly impressed on him never to permit his feelings to be engaged by any woman ; nobody , he assured Coningsby , despised that weakness more than women themselves . 
Coningsby was always to have before him the possible catastrophe of becoming ridiculous . 
For the rest , Coningsby was to appear at Cambridge as became Lord Monmouth 's favourite grandson . 
His grandfather had opened an account for him with Drummonds on whom he was to draw for his very considerable allowance ; and if by any chance he found himself in a scrape , no matter of what kind , he was to be sure to write to his grandfather , who would certainly get him out of it . 
Coningsby who had heard Lord Eskdale announce Sidonia 's departure lingered to express his regret and say , farewell . 
`` I am going to Cambridge in a week , '' said Coningsby . 
`` Suppose you do n't pay it , '' said Coningsby , smiling . 
Yet the Jews , Coningsby , are essentially Tories . 
So you see , my dear Coningsby , that the world is governed by very different personages to what is imagined by those who are not behind the scenes . '' 
`` But I come also from Caucasus , '' said Coningsby . 
An University life did not bring to Coningsby that feeling of emancipation usually experienced by freshmen . 
But there were also other reasons why Coningsby should have been less impressed with the novelty of his life , and have encountered less temptations than commonly are met with in the new existence which an University opens to youth . 
In the interval , which had elapsed between quitting Eton and going to Cambridge , brief as the period may comparatively appear , Coningsby had seen much of the world . 
Coningsby had felt a good deal , reflected more . 
He had encountered a great number of human beings , offering a vast variety of character for his observation . 
There was another reason also , why Coningsby should feel a little fastidious among his new habits , and without being aware of it , a little depressed . 
For three or four months , and for the first time in his life , he had passed his time in the continual society of refined and charming women . 
Coningsby in his solitary rooms arranging his books , sighed when he recalled the Lady Everinghams and the Lady Theresas ; the gracious Duchess ; the frank , good-tempered Madame Colonna ; that deeply interesting enigma , the Princess Lucretia ; and the gentle Flora . 
He thought with disgust of the impending dissipation of an University , which could only be an exaggeration of their coarse frolics at school . 
And those University honours that once were the great object of his aspirations , they did not figure in that grandeur with which they once haunted his imagination . 
What Coningsby determined to conquer was knowledge . 
He had watched the influence of Sidonia in society with an eye of unceasing vigilance . 
Coningsby perceived that all yielded to him ; that Lord Monmouth even , who seemed to respect none , gave place to his intelligence ; appealed to him , listened to him , was guided by him . 
The friends of Coningsby were now hourly arriving . 
The fame of Coningsby had preceded him at Cambridge . 
Coningsby had already acquirements sufficiently considerable with some formal application to ensure him at all times his degree . 
He was no longer engrossed by the intention he once proudly entertained of trying for honours , and he chalked out for himself that range of reading , which , digested by his thought , should furnish him in some degree with that various knowledge of the history of man to which he aspired . 
The same desire that prevented the Castle of his grandfather from proving a Castle of Indolence to him , that saved him from a too early initiation into the seductive distractions of a refined and luxurious society , would have preserved Coningsby from the puerile profligacy of a college life , or from being that idol of private tutors , a young pedant . 
Less than a year after the arrival of Coningsby at Cambridge , and which he had only once quitted in the interval , and that to pass a short time in Berkshire with his friend Buckhurst , occurred the death of King William IV . 
Even Coningsby caught the contagion , and Vere , who had imbibed much of Coningsby 's political sentiment , prevailed on himself to be neutral . 
The day the member was chaired , several men in Coningsby 's rooms were talking over their triumph . 
`` Why it 's the cause of our glorious institutions , '' said Coningsby . 
`` Under which , '' continued Coningsby , `` the crown has become a cipher ; the church a sect ; the nobility drones ; and the people drudges . '' 
`` The first public association of men , '' said Coningsby , `` who have worked for an avowed end , without enunciating a single principle . '' 
`` Nay , '' said Coningsby , smiling , `` it was our last schoolboy weakness . 
`` I certainly , Coningsby , '' said Lord Vere , `` shall not assume the Conservative Cause , instead of the Cause for which Hampden died in the field , and Sydney on the scaffold . '' 
`` The cause for which Hampden died in the field , and Sydney on the scaffold , '' said Coningsby , `` was the cause of the Venetian Republic . '' 
`` I repeat it , '' said Coningsby . 
`` Let us think of principles , and not of parties , '' said Coningsby . 
`` Heaven forbid , '' said Coningsby . 
It was the midnight following the morning when this conversation took place , that Coningsby alone , and having just quitted a rather boisterous party of wassailers who had been celebrating at Buckhurst 's rooms the triumph of `` Eton Statesmen , '' if not of Conservative principles , stopped in the precincts of that Royal College , that reminded him of his school-days , to cool his brow in the summer air , that even at that hour was soft , and to calm his mind in the contemplation of the still , the sacred , and the beauteous scene that surrounded him . 
thought Coningsby . 
We must now revert to the family , or rather the household of Lord Monmouth , in which considerable changes and events had occurred since the visit of Coningsby to the Castle in the preceding autumn . 
This calamity broke up the party at Coningsby , which was not at the moment very numerous . 
In the pleasure with which he looked forward to her approaching alliance with his patron , he reminded her of the readiness with which he had embraced her suggestions for the marriage of her daughter with Coningsby . 
Always obliging , she was never wearied of chaunting his praises to her noble admirer , who was apparently much gratified she should have bestowed her esteem on one of whom she would necessarily in after life see so much . 
The summer advanced ; the death of the King occurred ; the dissolution summoned Rigby to Coningsby and the borough of Darlford . 
In a very few minutes that gentleman was ascending the private staircase , entering the antechamber , and waiting to be received in the little saloon , exactly as our Coningsby did more than five years ago , scarcely less agitated , but by feelings of a very different character . 
She concentrated her intellect on one point , and that was to fascinate the grandfather of Coningsby , while her step-mother was plotting that she should marry his grandson . 
Then she fell into a passion of tears , and vowed frequently that she was not weeping for herself , but only for that dear Mr. Coningsby , who had been treated so infamously and robbed of Lucretia , and whose heart she knew must break . 
Before we close this slight narrative of the domestic incidents that occurred in the family of his grandfather since Coningsby quitted the castle , we must not forget to mention what happened to Villebecque and Flora . 
Another year elapsed ; not so fruitful in incidents to Coningsby as the preceding ones , and yet not unprofitably passed . 
There is a moment in life , when the pride and thirst of knowledge seem to absorb our being , and so it happened now to Coningsby , who felt each day stronger in his intellectual resources , and each day more anxious and avid to increase them . 
The habits of public discussion fostered by the Debating Society were also for Coningsby no inconsiderable tie to the University . 
This was the arena in which he felt himself at home . 
The promise of his Eton days was here fulfilled . 
And while his friends listened to his sustained argument or his impassioned declamation ; the prompt reply or the apt retort ; they looked forward with pride through the vista of years to the time when the hero of the youthful Club should convince or dazzle in the senate . 
When Lord Monmouth had fixed his wedding-day he had written himself to Coningsby to announce his intended marriage , and to request his grandson 's presence at the ceremony . 
He assured his grandson that this alliance should make no difference in the very ample provision which he had long intended for him ; that he should ever esteem Coningsby his nearest relative ; and that while his death would bring to Coningsby as considerable an independence as an English gentleman need desire , so in his lifetime , Coningsby should ever be supported as became his birth , breeding , and future prospects . 
It so happened that a few hours after , Lucretia who now entered the private rooms of Lord Monmouth without previously announcing her arrival , met Villebecque with the letter to Coningsby in his hand . 
Lucretia took it away from him , and said it should be posted with her own letters . 
Our friend learnt the marriage from the newspapers , which somewhat astounded him ; but Coningsby was fond of his grandfather , and he wrote Lord Monmouth a letter of congratulation , full of feeling and ingenuousness , and which , while it much pleased the person to whom it was addressed , unintentionally convinced him that Coningsby had never received his original communication . 
Rather more than a year after the marriage , when Coningsby had completed his twenty-first year , the year which he had passed so quietly at Cambridge , he received a letter from his grandfather , informing him that after a variety of movements Lady Monmouth and himself were established in Paris for the season , and desiring that he would not fail to come over as soon as was practicable , and pay them as long a visit as the regulations of the University would permit . 
So , at the close of the December term , Coningsby quitted Cambridge for Paris . 
Passing through London , he made his first visit to his banker at Charing Cross , on whom he had periodically drawn since he commenced his college life . 
He was in the outer counting-house , making some inquiries about a letter of credit , when one of the partners came out from an inner room , and invited him to enter . 
This firm had been for generations the bankers of the Coningsby family ; and it appeared that there was a sealed box in their possession which had belonged to the father of Coningsby , and they wished to take this opportunity of delivering it to his son . 
The seal was broken ; the box was full of papers , chiefly correspondence : among them was a packet described as letters from `` my dear Helen , '' the mother of Coningsby . 
Coningsby found Lord and Lady Monmouth in a splendid hotel in the Faubourg St. Honor , near the English embassy . 
It can not be denied that between Lucretia and Coningsby there existed from the first a certain antipathy ; and though circumstances for a short time had apparently removed or modified the aversion , the manner of the lady when Coningsby was ushered into her boudoir , resplendent with all that Parisian taste and luxury could devise , was characterized by that frigid politeness which had preceded the days of their more genial acquaintance . 
A guest under such a roof however , Coningsby was at once launched into the most brilliant circles of Parisian society , which he found fascinating . 
About a week after Coningsby 's arrival in Paris , as he was sauntering on the soft and sunny Boulevards , soft and sunny though Christmas , he met Sidonia . 
And when Coningsby had rapidly related all that had passed , they talked of Paris . 
Sidonia had offered him hospitality , until he learned that Lord Monmouth was at Paris , and that Coningsby was his guest . 
`` I am sorry you can not come to me , '' he remarked ; `` I would have shown you every body and every thing . 
`` I have already seen many remarkable things , '' said Coningsby ; `` and met many celebrated persons . 
exclaimed Coningsby . 
`` Tell me , '' he added eagerly , `` what is he ? 
`` But is there no danger , '' resumed Coningsby , after the pause of a few moments , `` that the Republic of Paris may absorb the Kingdom of France ? '' 
At this moment they reached that part of the Boulevard which leads into the Place of the Madeleine , whither Sidonia was bound ; and Coningsby was about to quit his companion , when Sidonia said : `` I am only going to step over to the Rue Tronchet to say a few words to a friend of mine , M. P -- s. I shall not detain you five minutes ; and you should know him , for he has some capital pictures , and a collection of Limoges ware that is the despair of the dilettanti . '' 
After some general conversation , Coningsby turned towards the pictures , and left Sidonia with their host . 
The collection was rare ; and interested Coningsby , though unacquainted with art . 
He sauntered on from picture to picture until he reached the end of the gallery , where an open door invited him into a suite of rooms also full of pictures , and objects of curiosity and art . 
As he was entering a second chamber , he observed a lady leaning back in a cushioned chair , and looking earnestly on a picture . 
His entrance was unheard and unnoticed , for the lady 's back was to the door ; yet Coningsby advancing in an angular direction , obtained nearly a complete view of her countenance . 
Those glowing shades of the gallery to which love , and genius , and devotion had lent their inspiration , seemed without life and lustre by the radiant and expressive presence which Coningsby now beheld . 
The lady rose , advanced towards the picture , looked at it earnestly for a few moments , and then turning in a direction opposite to Coningsby , walked away . 
The fair object of his observation had advanced into other chambers , and as soon as it was becoming , Coningsby followed her . 
Coningsby heard her speak ; the words were English , but the accent not of a native . 
In the remotest part of the room , Coningsby apparently engaged in examining some of that famous Limoges ware of which Sidonia had spoken , watched with interest and intentness the beautiful being whom he had followed , and whom he concluded to be the child of her companions . 
After some little time , they quitted the apartment on their return to the gallery ; Coningsby remained behind , caring for none of the rare and fanciful objects that surrounded him , yet compelled , from the fear of seeming obtrusive , for some minutes to remain . 
Then he too returned to the gallery , and just as he had gained its end , he saw the portly gentleman in the distance shaking hands with Sidonia , the ladies apparently expressing their thanks and gratification to M. P -- s , and then all vanishing by the door through which Coningsby had originally entered . 
said M. P -- s , as Coningsby approached him . 
I am glad to hear it ; I have been admiring her , '' he replied . 
said Coningsby , `` no , I have not that honour . '' 
He looked at Sidonia . 
She received the intimation indeed from Coningsby at dinner with sufficient art to conceal her emotion . 
In the evening of the day that Coningsby met Sidonia , Lady Monmouth made a little visit to the charming Duchess de G -- t who was `` at home '' every other night in her pretty hotel , with its embroidered white satin draperies , its fine old cabinets , and ancestral portraits of famous name , brave marshals and bright princesses of the olden time , on its walls . 
Coningsby had made a visit to M. Villebecque and Flora the day after his arrival . 
Villebecque talked very much and amusingly ; and Flora , whom Coningsby frequently addressed , very little , though she listened with great earnestness . 
Coningsby told her that he thought from all he heard she was too much alone , and counselled her to gaiety . 
Almost every day as he passed their entresol , Coningsby would look into Villebecque 's apartments for a moment to ask after Flora . 
Coningsby , who had stolen away from his grandfather 's before the rest of the guests , was delighted with the novelty of the splendid scene . 
He had been in Paris long enough to make some acquaintances , and mostly with celebrated personages . 
In his long-fruitless endeavour to enter the saloon in which they danced , he found himself hustled against the illustrious Baron von H -- t , whom he had sat next to at dinner a few days before at Count M --  's . 
`` It is more difficult than cutting through the Isthmus of Panama , Baron , '' said Coningsby , alluding to a past conversation . 
Time however brought Coningsby into that brilliant chamber . 
Here where all are fair and everything is attractive , his eye is suddenly arrested by one object -- a form of surpassing grace among the graceful , among the beauteous , a countenance of unrivalled beauty . 
The eye of Coningsby never quitted her . 
When the dance ceased , he had an opportunity of seeing her nearer . 
He met her walking with her cavalier , and he was conscious that she observed him . 
Finally , he remarked that she resumed a seat next to the lady , whom he had mistaken for her mother , but had afterwards understood to be Lady Wallinger . 
Coningsby returned to the other saloons ; he witnessed the entrance and reception of Lady Monmouth , who moved on towards the ballroom . 
Soon after this , Sidonia arrived ; he came in with the still handsome and ever courteous Duke D -- s. Observing Coningsby , he stopped to present him to the Duke . 
Sidonia stopped ; Coningsby could not refrain from lingering , but stood a little apart , and was about to move away , when there was a whisper , of which , without hearing a word , he could not resist the impression that he was the subject . 
He felt a little embarrassed , and was retiring , when he heard Sidonia reply to an inquiry of the lady , `` The same , '' and then turning to Coningsby , said aloud : `` Coningsby , Miss Millbank says that you have forgotten her . '' 
Coningsby started , advanced , coloured a little , could not conceal his surprise . 
Coningsby recalled at that moment the long dark eye-lashes and the beautiful , bashful , countenance that had so charmed him at Millbank ; but two years had otherwise effected a wonderful change in the sister of his school-day friend , and transformed the silent , embarrassed girl into a woman of surpassing beauty and of the most graceful and impressive mien . 
`` It is not surprising that Mr. Coningsby should not recollect my niece , '' said Sir Joseph addressing Sidonia , and wishing to cover their mutual embarrassment ; `` but it is impossible for her or for any one connected with her , not to be anxious at all times to express to him our sanse of what we all owe him . '' 
Coningsby and Miss Millbank were now in full routine conversation , consisting of questions ; how long she had been at Paris ; when she had heard last from Millbank ; how her father was ; also , how was her brother . 
Sidonia made an observation to Sir Joseph on a passer-by , and then himself moved on ; Coningsby accompanying his new friends in a contrary direction , to the refreshment room to which they were proceeding . 
`` And you have passed a winter at Rome , '' said Coningsby . 
`` The gold and silver sides of the shield , '' said Coningsby with a smile . 
`` You will soon ; but he is such a devotee of Oxford ; quite a monk ; and you , too , Mr. Coningsby are much occupied . '' 
`` I always remember it with delight , '' said Coningsby . 
And , yet , '' added Coningsby , `` that would have been a sad mistake , since I should not have had the happiness of being here . '' 
`` Edith , '' said Sir Joseph , rejoining his niece , from whom he had been momentarily separated , `` Edith , that is Monsieur Thiers . '' 
The image of Edith Millbank was the last thought of Coningsby as he sank into an agitated slumber . 
To him had hitherto in general been accorded the precious boon of dreamless sleep . 
Coningsby this night lived much in past years , varied by painful perplexities of the present , which he could neither subdue , nor comprehend . 
Coningsby loved . 
Coningsby had scarcely quitted her side the preceding eve . 
He hung upon the accents of that clear sweet voice , and sought with tremulous fascination , the gleaming splendour of those soft dark eyes . 
And now he sat in his chamber with his eyes fixed upon vacancy . 
He had requested and gained permission to call on Lady Wallinger ; he would not lose a moment in availing himself of it . 
As early as was tolerably decorous , and before in all probability they could quit their hotel , Coningsby repaired to the Rue de Rivoli to pay his respects to his new friends . 
As he walked along , he indulged in fanciful speculations which connected Edith and the mysterious portrait of his mother . 
He felt himself as it were near the fulfilment of some fate , and on the threshold of some critical discovery . 
He recalled the impatient , even alarmed , expressions of Rigby at Montem six years ago , when he proposed to invite young Millbank to his grandfather 's dinner ; the vindictive feud that existed between the two families ; and for which political opinion , or even party passion could not satisfactorily account ; and he reasoned himself into a conviction , that the solution of many perplexities was at hand , and that all would be consummated to the satisfaction of every one , by his unexpected but inevitable agency . 
Coningsby found Sir Joseph alone . 
This lady was the mother of Edith , and of the school-fellow of Coningsby . 
It was not therefore only that nature had developed a beautiful woman out of a bashful girl since Coningsby 's visit to Millbank ; but really , every means and every opportunity that could contribute in rendering an individual capable of adorning the most accomplished circles of life had naturally , and without effort , fallen to the fortunate lot of the manufacturer 's daughter . 
Sir Joseph was very much astonished when Coningsby , who being somewhat impatient for the entrance of the ladies was rather more abrupt than his wont , told the worthy Baronet that he looked upon a government without distinct principles of policy , as only a stop-gap to a wide-spread and demoralizing anarchy ; that he for one could not comprehend how a free government could endure without national opinions to uphold it ; and that governments for the preservation of peace and order , and nothing else , had better be sought in China , or among the Austrians , the Chinese of Europe . 
`` I look upon an Orangeman , '' said Coningsby , `` as a pure Whig ; the only professor and practiser of unadulterated Whiggism . '' 
The heart of Coningsby throbbed as Edith appeared . 
An hour , and more than an hour , passed away , and Coningsby still found some excuse not to depart . 
Coningsby expressed great interest in the subject , and showed some knowledge . 
Not a day elapsed without Coningsby being in the company of Edith . 
Time was precious for him , for the spires and pinnacles of Cambridge already began to loom in the distance , and he resolved to make the most determined efforts not to lose a day of his liberty . 
More than once , making the attempt , his courage failed him , and he turned into the gardens of the Tuileries , and only watched the windows of the house . 
Circumstances however favoured him : he received a letter from Oswald Millbank ; he was bound to communicate in person this evidence of his friend 's existence ; and when he had to reply to the letter , he must necessarily inquire whether his friend 's relatives had any message to transmit to him . 
What assisted Coningsby in his plans and wishes was the great pleasure which Sidonia , with whom he passed a great deal of his time , took in the society of the Wallingers and their niece . 
Coningsby was very happy . 
His morning visits to the Rue de Rivoli seemed always welcome , and seldom an evening elapsed in which he did not find himself in the society of Edith . 
She seemed not to wish to conceal that his presence gave her pleasure , and though she had many admirers and had an airy graciousness for all of them , Coningsby sometimes indulged the exquisite suspicion that there was a flattering distinction in her carriage to himself . 
Under the influence of these feelings , he began daily to be more conscious that separation would be an intolerable calamity ; he began to meditate upon the feasibility of keeping a half term , and of postponing his departure to Cambridge to a period nearer the time when Edith would probably return to England . 
Coningsby heard much of it one day when dining at his grandfather 's . 
said Coningsby . 
-- That Sidonia is going to marry , '' he added with a fiendish laugh . 
Coningsby felt quite sure that the story of Sidonia 's marriage with Edith was the most ridiculous idea that ever entered into the imagination of man ; at least he thought he felt quite sure . 
Coningsby felt that sickness of the heart that accompanies one 's first misfortune . 
He was miserable ; he had no confidence in himself , in his future . 
After all , what was he ? 
Could he forget the glance with which Lord Monmouth caught the name of Millbank and received the intimation of Hellingsley ? 
On the morning after that slight conversation , which had so disturbed the souls , though unconsciously to each other , of herself and Coningsby , the Marquess was driving Lucretia up the avenue Marigny in his phaeton . 
After the conversation at dinner which we have noticed , the restless and disquieted Coningsby wandered about Paris , vainly seeking in the distraction of a great city some relief from the excitement of his mind . 
His first resolution was immediately to depart for England ; but when , on reflection , he was mindful that after all , the assertion which had so agitated him might really be without foundation , in spite of many circumstances that to his regardful fancy seemed to accredit it , his firm resolution began to waver . 
These were the first pangs of jealousy that Coningsby had ever experienced ; and they revealed to him the immensity of the stake which he was hazarding on a most uncertain die . 
The next morning he called in the Rue Rivoli and was informed that the family were not at home . 
He was returning under the arcades towards the Rue St. Florentin , when Sidonia passed him in an opposite direction on horseback and at a rapid rate . 
Coningsby , who was not observed by him , could not resist a strange temptation to watch for a moment his progress . 
Coningsby saw him enter the Court of the Hotel where the Wallinger family were staying . 
Would he come forth immediately ? 
Coningsby stood still and pale . 
Coningsby flattered himself that Sidonia was only speaking to the porter . 
Coningsby had not seen her for the last fortnight . 
Seeing her now , his heart smote him for his neglect , excusable as it really was . 
Any one else at this time , he would have hurried by without recognition , but the gentle and suffering Flora was too meek to be rudely treated by so kind a heart as Coningsby 's . 
He looked at her ; she was pale and agitated . 
inquired Coningsby . 
Briefly she detailed to Coningsby all that had occurred ; that M. Villebecque had already repaired to them ; that she herself only this moment had learned the intelligence , that seemed to agitate her to the centre . 
Coningsby instantly turned with her ; but they had scarcely emerged from the court-yard when the carriage approached that brought Lord and Lady Monmouth home . 
Coningsby pressed his grandfather 's hand . 
Then he assisted Lucretia to alight . 
`` But you must lean on me , dearest Lady Monmouth , '' Coningsby said in a tone of great tenderness , as he felt Lucretia almost sinking from him . 
And he supported her into the hall of the hotel . 
When Coningsby had returned to his grandfather 's hotel that morning , it was with a determination of leaving Paris the next day for England , but the accident to Lady Monmouth , though , as it ultimately appeared , accompanied by no very serious consequences , quite dissipated this intention . 
So he remained another day , and that was the day preceding Sidonia 's fte , which he particularly resolved not to attend . 
With these feelings , sauntering away the last hours at Paris , disquieted , uneasy ; no present , no future ; no enjoyment , no hope ; really , positively , undeniably , unhappy ; unhappy too for the first time in his life ; the first unhappiness -- what a companion piece for the first love -- Coningsby , of all places in the world , in the gardens of the Luxembourg , encountered Sir Joseph Wallinger and Edith . 
And Coningsby turned round and walked with them . 
`` The festival will be not less gay for my absence , '' said Coningsby with that plaintive moroseness not unusual to despairing lovers . 
`` He has no friend , '' said Coningsby . 
`` I have no doubt you have , '' thought Coningsby . 
`` Sidonia is a great man , and carries every thing before him , '' said Coningsby . 
Edith spoke of her return to Lancashire , of her hope that Mr. Coningsby would soon see Oswald ; but Mr. Coningsby informed her that though he was going to leave Paris , he had no intention of returning to England ; that he had not yet quite made up his mind whither he should go ; but thought that he should travel direct to St. Petersburg . 
He wished to travel overland to Astrachan . 
That was the place he was particularly anxious to visit . 
After this incomprehensible announcement , they walked on for some minutes in silence , broken only by occasional monosyllables with which Coningsby responded at hazard to the sound remarks of Sir Joseph . 
As they approached the Palace , a party of English who were visiting the Chamber of Peers , and who were acquainted with the companions of Coningsby , encountered them . 
Amid the mutual recognitions , Coningsby was about to take his leave somewhat ceremoniously ; but Edith held forth her hand , and said : `` Is this indeed farewell ? '' 
His heart was agitated , his countenance changed ; he retained her hand amid the chattering tourists , too full of their criticisms and their egotistical common places to notice what was passing . 
`` We will say farewell at the ball , '' said Coningsby , and she rewarded him with a radiant smile . 
Coningsby though somewhat depressed , was not insensible to the magic of the scene . 
Since the passage in the gardens of the Luxembourg -- that tone -- that glance -- he had certainly felt much relieved , happier . 
The Spanish parentage of Edith had only more perplexed Coningsby . 
Coningsby had taken occasion to sound the Wallingers on this subject ; but he felt assured from the manner in which his advances were met , that they knew nothing of his mother , and attributed the hostility of Mr. Millbank to his grandfather solely to political emulation and local rivalries . 
Coningsby had met with great social success at Paris . 
He was at once a favourite . 
The Parisian dames decided in his favour . 
He was a specimen of the highest style of English beauty which is very popular in France . 
His air was acknowledged as distinguished . 
The men also liked him ; he had not quite arrived at that age , when you make enemies . 
The moment therefore that he found himself in the saloons of Sidonia , he was accosted by many whose notice was flattering ; but his eye wandered , while he tried to be courteous and attempted to be sprightly . 
Where was she ? 
He had nearly reached the ball-room when he met her . 
She was on the arm of Lord Beaumanoir , who had made her acquaintance at Rome , and originally claimed it as the member of a family who , as the reader may perhaps not forget , had experienced some kindnesses from the Millbanks . 
Lord Beaumanoir told Coningsby he had introduced steeple-chaces at Rome , and had parted with Sunbeam to the nephew of a Cardinal . 
Coningsby securing Edith 's hand for the next dance , they all moved on together to her aunt . 
`` Not to-morrow , '' said Coningsby . 
`` I wish nothing was stirring , '' said Coningsby . 
`` It was the air of the Luxembourg that reminded me of the desart , '' said Coningsby . 
Soon after this Coningsby led Edith to the dance . 
It was at a ball that he had first met her at Paris , and this led to other reminiscences ; all most interesting . 
Coningsby was perfectly happy . 
All mysteries , all difficulties , were driven from his recollection ; he lived only in the exciting and enjoyable present . 
Some time after this , Coningsby who was inevitably separated from Edith , met his host . 
In fact , Coningsby felt that to quit Paris and Edith was an impossibility . 
He silenced the remonstrance of his conscience by the expedient of keeping a half-term ; and had no difficulty in persuading himself that a short delay in taking his degree could not really be of the slightest consequence . 
The banquet had but one fault ; Coningsby was separated from Edith . 
The Duchess of Grand Cairo , the beautiful wife of the heir of one of the Imperial illustrations , had determined to appropriate Coningsby as her cavalier for the moment . 
Distracted , he made his escape ; but his wandering eye could not find the object of its search ; and he fell prisoner to the charming Princess De Petitpoix , a Carlist chieftain , whose witty words avenged the cause of fallen dynasties and a cashiered nobility . 
All the circumstances of his life at this moment were such as acted forcibly on the imagination of Coningsby . 
Separated from Edith , he had still the delight of seeing her , the paragon of that bright company , the consummate being whom he adored ! 
And who had spoken to him in a voice sweeter than a serenade , and had bestowed on him a glance softer than moonlight . 
About an hour after this , the ball-room still full , but the other saloons gradually emptying , Coningsby entered a chamber which seemed deserted . 
Yet he heard sounds as it were of earnest conversation . 
It was a voice that invited his progress ; he advanced another step , then suddenly stopped . 
There were two individuals in the room , by whom he was unnoticed . 
Coningsby instantly withdrew , yet could not escape hearing an earnest request from Edith to her companion that he would write to her . 
In a few seconds Coningsby had quitted the hotel of Sidonia , and the next day found him on his road to England . 
`` Well , Coningsby ! '' 
And here we must for a moment revert to what had occurred to Coningsby since he so suddenly quitted Paris at the beginning of the year . 
It is quite impossible to conceal that Coningsby had imbibed for Sidonia a certain degree of aversion , which in these days of exaggerated phrase might even be described as hatred . 
He would recall the tones of her voice , the expression of her soft dark eye , the airy spirit and frank graciousness , sometimes even the flattering blush , with which she had ever welcomed one of whom she had heard so long and so kindly . 
And yet had she accorded him that peerless boon , her heart -- with what aspect was he to communicate this consummation of all his hopes to his grandfather , ask Lord Monmouth for his blessing , and the gracious favour of an establishment for the daughter of his foe ; of a man whose name was never mentioned except to cloud his visage . 
what was that mystery that connected the haughty house of Coningsby with the humble blood of the Lancashire manufacturer ? 
Why was the portrait of his mother beneath the roof of Millbank ? 
Coningsby had delicately touched upon the subject both with Edith and the Wallingers , but the result of his inquiries only involved the question in deeper gloom . 
Coningsby had sometimes drawn the conversation to pictures , and he would remind her with playfulness of their first unconscious meeting in the gallery of the Rue Tronchet ; then he remembered that Mr. Millbank was fond of pictures ; then he recollected some specimens of Mr. Millbank 's collection , and after touching on several which could not excite suspicion , he came to `` a portrait , a portrait of a lady ; was it a portrait , or an ideal countenance ? '' 
Coningsby addressed himself to the point with Sir Joseph . 
He inquired of the uncle explicity , whether he knew anything on the subject . 
Disappointed in his love , Coningsby sought refuge in the excitement of study , and in the brooding imagination of an aspiring spirit . 
The softness of his heart seemed to have quitted him for ever . 
He recurred to his habitual reveries of political greatness and public distinction . 
And as it ever seemed to him , that no preparation could be complete for the career which he planned for himself , he devoted himself with increased ardour to that digestion of knowledge which converts it into wisdom . 
His life at Cambridge was now a life of seclusion . 
With the exception of a very few Eton friends he avoided all society . 
And indeed his acquisitions during this term were such as few have equalled , and could only have been mastered by a mental discipline of a severe and exalted character . 
At the end of the term Coningsby took his degree , and in a few days was about to quit that University where on the whole he had passed three serene and happy years , in the society of fond and faithful friends , and in ennobling pursuits . 
He had many plans for his impending movements , yet none of them very mature ones . 
Lord Vere wished Coningsby to visit his family in the north , and afterwards to go to Scotland together ; Coningsby was more inclined to travel for a year . 
Amid this hesitation , a circumstance occurred which decided him to adopt neither of these courses . 
It was Commencement , and coming out of the quadrangle of St. John 's , Coningsby came suddenly upon Sir Joseph and Lady Wallinger , who were visiting the marvels and rarities of the University . 
Coningsby was a little embarrassed , for he could not forget the abrupt manner in which he had parted from them ; but they greeted him with so much cordiality that he instantly recovered himself , and turning became their companion . 
He hardly ventured to ask after Edith ; at length in a depressed tone and a hesitating manner he inquired whether they had lately seen Miss Millbank . 
He was himself surprised at the extreme light-heartedness which came over him the moment he heard she was in England , at Millbank , with her family . 
He always very much liked Lady Wallinger ; but this morning he hung over her like a lover , lavished on her unceasing and the most delicate attentions , seemed to exist only in the idea of making the Wallingers enjoy and understand Cambridge ; no one else was to be their guide at any place , or under any circumstances . 
He told them exactly what they were to see ; how they were to see it ; when they were to see it . 
He told them of things which nobody did see ; but which they should . 
He insisted that Sir Joseph should dine with him in Hall ; Sir Joseph could not think of leaving Lady Wallinger ; Lady Wallinger could not think of Sir Joseph missing an opportunity that might never offer again . 
Except to give her husband a dinner , Coningsby evidently intended never to leave her side . 
And the next morning , the occasion favourable , being alone with the lady , Sir Joseph bustling about a carriage , Coningsby said suddenly with a countenance a little disturbed , and in a low voice , `` I was pleased , I mean surprised to hear that there was still a Miss Millbank ; I thought by this time she might have borne another name ? '' 
Lady Wallinger looked at him with an expression of some perplexity , and then said , `` Yes , Edith was very much admired ; but she need not be precipitate in marrying . 
`` But I understood , '' said Coningsby , `` when I left Paris , '' and here he became very confused , `` that Miss Millbank was engaged , on the point of marriage . '' 
said Coningsby with a searching eye . 
A ray of light flashed on the brain of Coningsby , as Lady Wallinger said these words . 
He became pensive , remained silent , was relieved when Sir Joseph , whose return he had hitherto deprecated , reappeared . 
Coningsby learnt in the course of the day , that the Wallingers were about to make , and immediately , a visit to Hellingsley ; their first visit ; indeed this was the first year that Mr. Millbank had taken up his abode there . 
He did not much like the change of life Sir Joseph told Coningsby , but Edith was delighted with Hellingsley , which Sir Joseph understood was a very distinguished place , with very fine gardens of which his niece was particularly fond . 
When Coningsby returned to his rooms , those rooms which he was soon about to quit for ever , in arranging some papers preparatory to his removal , his eye lighted on a too long unanswered letter of Oswald Millbank . 
Coningsby had often projected a visit to Oxford , which he much desired to make , but hitherto it had been impossible for him to effect it except in the absence of Millbank ; and he had frequently postponed it , that he might combine his first visit to that famous seat of learning with one to his old schoolfellow and friend . 
And immediately Coningsby wrote to apprize Millbank that he had taken his degree , was free , and prepared to pay to him immediately the long projected visit . 
Most assuredly there never was a Congress of Friendship wherein more was said and felt than in this meeting so long projected , and yet perhaps on the whole so happily procrastinated between Coningsby and Millbank . 
And one night as they sat together in Millbank 's rooms at Oriel , their conversation having for some time taken a political colour , Millbank said : `` Now tell me , Coningsby , exactly what you conceive to be the state of parties in this country ; for it seems to me that if we penetrate the surface , the classification must be more simple than their many names would intimate . '' 
`` The principle of the Exclusive Constitution of England having been conceded by the acts of 1827 -- 8 -- 32 , '' said Coningsby , `` a party has arisen in the State , who demand that the principle of political liberalism shall consequently be carried to its extent ; which it appears to them is impossible without getting rid of the fragments of the old Constitution that remain . 
`` 'T is true , '' said Coningsby . 
`` And yet , '' said Coningsby , `` the only way to terminate what in the language of the present day is called Class Legislation is not to intrust power to classes . 
that is a subject which I have not forgotten , '' replied Coningsby . 
`` And yet , my dear Coningsby , with all its past errors and all its present deficiencies , it is by the Church , I would have said until I listened to you to-night , by the Church alone , that I see any chance of regenerating the national character . 
`` The Utilitarian system is dead , '' said Coningsby . 
`` It is a holy thing to see a State saved by its youth , '' said Coningsby , and then he added in a tone of humility , if not of depression : `` But what a task ! 
''' `` Heaven is above all , '' said Coningsby . 
Coningsby and himself had travelled together as far as Darlford , where their roads diverged , and they had separated with an engagement on the part of Coningsby to visit Hellingsley on the morrow . 
As they had travelled along , Coningsby had frequently led the conversation to domestic topics : gradually he had talked , and talked much , of Edith . 
Without an obtrusive curiosity , he extracted unconsciously to his companion traits of her character and early days , which filled him with a wild and secret interest . 
The thought that in a few hours , he was to meet her again , infused into his being a degree of transport , which the very necessity of repressing before his companion , rendered more magical and thrilling . 
The Castle of his grandfather presented a far different scene on the arrival of Coningsby to that which it had offered on his first visit . 
Coningsby reached the castle a little before sunset , almost the same hour that he had arrived there more than three years ago . 
Coningsby had already lived long enough to find interest in pondering over the past . 
That past too must inevitably exercise a great influence over his present . 
He recalled his morning drive with his grandfather to the brink of that river , which was the boundary between his own domain and Hellingsley . 
Restless , excited , not insensible to the difficulties , perhaps the dangers , of his position , yet full of an entrancing emotion in which all thoughts and feelings seemed to merge , Coningsby went forth into the fair gardens to muse over his love amid objects as beautiful . 
But as for Coningsby , the mitigating hour that softens the heart made his spirit brave . 
He willed to blend his life and fate with a being beautiful as that nature that subdued him , and he felt in his own breast the intrinsic energies that in spite of all obstacles should mould such an imagination into reality . 
He descended the slopes , now growing dimmer in the fleeting light , into the park . 
His heart too was still . 
A sacred calm had succeeded to that distraction of emotion which had agitated him the whole day , while he had mused over his love and the infinite and insurmountable barriers that seemed to oppose his will . 
Now he felt one of those strong groundless convictions that are the inspiration of passion , that all would yield to him as to one holding an enchanted wand . 
Onward he strolled ; it seemed without purpose , yet always proceeding . 
The moon was high in her summer heaven , and still Coningsby strolled on . 
He crossed the broad lawns , he traversed the bright glades : amid the gleaming and shadowy woods , he traced his prescient way . 
He came to the bank of a rushing river , foaming in the moonlight , and wafting on its blue breast the shadow of a thousand stars . 
he said , `` that rollest to my mistress , bear her , bear her , my heart ! '' 
`` What beautiful bouquets Mr. Coningsby gave us at Paris , Edith ! '' 
`` I must say , I was very happy when I met Mr. Coningsby again at Cambridge , '' said Lady Wallinger . 
`` How delighted Oswald seems at having Mr. Coningsby for a companion again , '' said Edith . 
I am sure the kindness of Mr. Coningsby when we met him at Cambridge is what I never shall forget . 
But he always was my favourite from the first I saw him at Paris . 
Do you know , Edith , I liked him the best of all your admirers ? '' 
`` But I did not know Mr. Coningsby at Rome , '' said Lady Wallinger , `` I can not agree that any body is equal to Mr. Coningsby . 
I can not tell you how pleased I am that he is our neighbour ! '' 
As Lady Wallinger gave a finishing stroke to the jacket of her Andalusian , Edith vividly blushing , yet speaking in a voice of affected calmness , said , `` Here is Mr. Coningsby , aunt . '' 
And truly at this moment our hero might be discerned approaching the Hall by one of the avenues ; and in a few minutes , there was a ringing at the Hall bell , and then after a short pause , the servants announced Mr. Coningsby , and ushered him into the morning room . 
Edith was embarrassed ; the frankness and the gaiety of her manner had deserted her ; Coningsby was rather earnest than self-possessed . 
The ordinary topics of conversation were in sufficient plenty ; reminiscences of Paris , impressions of Hellingsley , his visit to Oxford , Lady Wallinger 's visit to Cambridge . 
Hellingsley was the subject on which Coningsby dwelt ; he was charmed with all that he had seen ; wished to see more . 
Sir Joseph was quite prepared to accompany him ; but Lady Wallinger who seemed to read Coningsby 's wishes in his eyes , proposed that the inspection should be general ; and in the course of half an hour , Coningsby was walking by the side of Edith , and sympathising with all the natural charms to which her quick taste and lively expression called his notice and appreciation . 
It seemed to Coningsby that he had never been happy before . 
A thrilling joy pervaded his being . 
He could have sung like a bird . 
His heart was as sunny as the summer scene . 
He felt each moment her voice becoming more tender ; his heart gushing in soft expressions ; each moment he was more fascinated ; her step was grace , her glance was beauty ; now she touched him by some phrase of sweet simplicity ; or carried him spell-bound by her airy merriment . 
Oswald assumed that Coningsby remained to dine with them . 
Coningsby could not but remember his dinner at Millbank , and the timid hostess whom he then addressed so often in vain , as he gazed on the bewitching and accomplished woman whom he now passionately loved . 
Sir Joseph who was always moderate and conciliatory in his talk , though he would go , at any time , any lengths for his party , expressed himself to-day with extreme sobriety , as he was determined not to hurt the feelings of Mr. Coningsby , and he principally confined himself to urging temperate questions , somewhat in the following fashion : `` I admit that on the whole , under ordinary circumstances , it would perhaps have been more convenient that these appointments should have remained with Sir Robert , but do n't you think that under the peculiar circumstances , being friends of her Majesty 's youth ? 
& c. , & c. '' Sir Joseph was extremely astonished when Coningsby replied that he thought under no circumstances should any appointment in the Royal Household be dependent on the voice of the House of Commons , though he was far from admiring the `` friends of her youth '' principle , which he looked upon as very impertinent . 
inquired Coningsby . 
`` It did before 1832 , '' said Coningsby ; `` but that is all past now . 
`` But they were phrases , '' said Coningsby , `` not facts . 
`` We should have had the Venetian Republic in 1640 , '' said Coningsby , `` had it not been for the Puritans . 
`` Because you have had your history written by the Venetian party , '' said Coningsby , `` and it has been their interest to conceal them . '' 
They now all spoke of Millbank , and Coningsby was happy that he was familiar with the scene . 
At length he ventured to say to Edith , `` You once made me a promise which you never fulfilled . 
Then they spoke for awhile of other recollections , and then , Coningsby appealing to Lady Wallinger for her influence , Edith rose and took up her guitar . 
The moon wanes ; and Coningsby must leave these enchanted halls . 
Then mounting his horse , Coningsby bade his friend farewell till the morrow , and made his best way to the Castle . 
The emblazoned page of Coningsby 's existence was now open . 
At Paris for example , he loved , or thought he loved . 
But there not an hour could elapse without his meeting some person , or hearing something , which disturbed the beauty of his emotions or broke his spellbound thoughts . 
There was his grandfather hating the Millbanks or Sidonia loving them ; and common people in the common world making common observations on them ; asking who they were , or telling who they were ; and brushing the bloom of all life 's fresh delicious fancies with their coarse handling . 
But now his feelings were ethereal . 
He loved , passionately -- and he loved in a scene and in a society as sweet , as pure , and as refined , as his imagination and his heart . 
There was no malicious gossip , no callous chatter , to profane his ear and desecrate his sentiment . 
All that he heard or saw was worthy of the summer sky , the still green woods , the gushing river , the gardens and terraces , the stately and fantastic dwellings , among which his life now glided as in some dainty and gorgeous masque . 
All the soft , social domestic sympathies of his nature which , however abundant , had never been cultivated , were developed by the life he was now leading . 
It was not merely that he lived in the constant presence , and under the constant influence of one whom he adored , that made him so happy . 
He was surrounded by beings who found felicity in the interchange of kind feelings and kind words ; in the cultivation of happy talents and refined tastes ; and the enjoyment of a life which their own good sense and own good hearts made them both comprehend and appreciate . 
Ambition lost much of its splendour , even his lofty aspirations something of their hallowing impulse of paramount duty , when Coningsby felt how much ennobling delight was consistent with the seclusion of a private station ; and mused over an existence to be passed amid woods and waterfalls with a fair hand locked in his ; or surrounded by his friends in some ancestral hall . 
The morning after his first visit to Hellingsley , Coningsby rejoined his friends , as he had promised Oswald at their breakfast table ; and day after day , he came with the early sun , and left them only when the late moon silvered the keep of Coningsby Castle . 
One day , Coningsby who arrived at the Hall unexpectedly late ; indeed it was some hours past noon , for he had been detained by despatches which arrived at the Castle from Mr. Rigby and which required his interposition ; found the ladies alone , and was told that Sir Joseph and Oswald were at the fishing cottage , where they wished him to join them . 
Coningsby looked up ; Lady Wallinger who had more than once announced , that she was going to put on her bonnet , was gone . 
Yet still he continued to talk trifles ; and still Edith listened . 
`` You would like Eustace Lyle , '' said Coningsby . 
There were yet a few pencil touches to be given to the tinted sketch ; Coningsby would cut the pencils . 
`` Would you give me , '' he said , `` some slight memorial of Hellingsby and your art ! 
Coningsby leant over the mantle in deep abstraction , gazing vacantly on a miniature of the father of Edith . 
A light step roused him ; she had returned , Unconsciously he greeted her with a glance of ineffable tenderness . 
They lingered before they reached the terrace where they were to find Lady Wallinger , observing the different points of view which the Hall presented , and debating which was to form the subject of Coningsby 's drawing ; for already it was to be not merely a sketch , but a drawing , the most finished that the bright and effective pencil of Edith could achieve . 
Coningsby was quite certain that she had gone onward to the fishing cottage , and expected them to follow her ; and he convinced Edith of the justness of his opinion . 
Coningsby urged Edith to seek at once a natural shelter ; but she , who knew the country , assured him that the fishing cottage was close by , and that they might reach it before the rain could do them any harm . 
At the turn of the river , about two hundred yards distant , Coningsby observed the low , dark roof of the fishing cottage on its banks . 
They descended from the woods to the margin of the stream , by a flight of turfen steps , Coningsby holding Edith 's hand as he guided her progress . 
Coningsby found a rough garden seat for Edith . 
Coningsby , after repeatedly watching the shower with Edith , and speculating on its progress which did not much annoy them , had seated himself on a log almost at her feet . 
Coningsby gazed on that countenance with a glance of entranced rapture . 
His cheek was flushed , his eye gleamed with dazzling lustre . 
`` Edith , '' he said , in a tone of tremulous passion , `` let me call you Edith ! 
Yes , '' he continued , gently taking her hand , `` Let me call you my Edith ! 
It was past the dinner hour when Edith and Coningsby reached the Hall ; an embarrassing circumstance , but mitigated by the conviction , that they had not to encounter a very critical inspection . 
Unconsciously she pressed the arm of Coningsby as the servant spoke , and then without looking into his face , whispering him to be quick , she sprang away . 
As for Coningsby , notwithstanding the elation of his heart , and the ethereal joy which flowed in all his veins , the name of Mr. Millbank sounded something like a knell . 
said Mr. Millbank , extending his hand to Coningsby . 
Coningsby looked round to the kind Lady Wallinger , and half addressed his murmured answer to her , explaining how they had lost her , and their way , and were caught in a storm or a shower , which as it terminated about three hours back , and the fishing cottage was little more than a mile from the Hall , very satisfactorily accounted for their not being in time for dinner . 
Lady Wallinger then said something about the lowering clouds having frightened her from the terrace , and Sir Joseph and Oswald talked a little of their sport , and of their having seen an otter ; but there was or at least there seemed to Coningsby a tone of general embarrassment which distressed him . 
Coningsby put his arm round the astonished neck of Oswald as if they were once more in the playing fields of Eton . 
my dear fellow , '' he exclaimed , `` I am so sorry we kept your father for dinner . '' 
As Edith headed her father 's table , according to his rigid rule , Coningsby was on one side of her . 
They never spoke so little ; Coningsby would have never unclosed his lips , had he followed his humour . 
He was in a stupor of happiness ; the dining-room took the appearance of the fishing cottage ; and he saw nothing but the flowing river . 
Lady Wallinger was however next to him , and that was a relief ; for he felt always she was his friend . 
And so their host soon recovered his good temper ; he addressed several times his observations to Coningsby , and was careful to take wine with him . 
The gentlemen indeed stayed much longer over their wine than on the preceding days , and Coningsby did not venture on the liberty of quitting the room before his host . 
Then Coningsby went up to her and asked her to sing the song of the Girls of Granada . 
Coningsby rose to depart . 
`` We shall see you at breakfast to-morrow , Coningsby ! '' 
said Oswald , very loud , knowing that the presence of his father would make Coningsby hesitate about coming . 
`` Not quite at so early an hour , '' said Coningsby , `` but if you will permit me , I hope to have the pleasure of hearing from you to-morrow , sir , that your journey has not fatigued you . '' 
To be alone ; to have no need of feigning a tranquillity he could not feel ; of coining common-place courtesy , when his heart was gushing with rapture ; this was a great relief for Coningsby , though gained by a separation from Edith . 
The deed was done ; he had breathed his long brooding passion , he had received the sweet expression of her sympathy , he had gained the long coveted heart . 
Youth , beauty , love , the innocence of unsophisticated breasts , and the inspiration of an exquisite nature , combined to fashion the spell that now entranced his life . 
He turned to gaze upon the moonlit towers and peaked roofs of Hellingsley . 
Half hid in deep shadow , half sparkling in the mid-night blaze , he recognized the oriel window that had been the subject of the morning 's sketch . 
Almost he wished there should be some sound to assure him of his reality . 
Was his life to be as bright and as tranquil ? 
And what was to be his life ? 
Whither was he to bear the beautiful bride he had gained ? 
Were the portals of Coningsby the proud and hospitable gates that were to greet her ? 
How long would they greet him after the achievement of the last four and twenty hours was known to their Lord ? 
His son and Coningsby appeared at the end of one of the avenues . 
Coningsby remarked the fanciful beauty of the portal ; its twisted columns , and Caryatides carved in dark oak . 
`` I was much struck with the valley and the whole settlement when I first saw it , '' said Coningsby . 
`` Suppose you go and see about the tackle , Oswald , '' said Mr. Millbank , `` and Mr. Coningsby and I will take a stroll on the terrace in the meantime . '' 
His son had no sooner departed than Mr. Millbank turned to Coningsby and said very abruptly . 
`` You have never seen my own room here , Mr. Coningsby ; step in ; for I wish to say a word or two to you . '' 
And thus speaking , he advanced before the astonished , and rather agitated Coningsby , and led the way through a door and long passage to a room of moderate dimensions , partly furnished as a library , and full of parliamentary papers and blue books . 
Shutting the door with some earnestness and pointing to a chair , he begged his guest to be seated . 
Both in their chairs , Mr. Millbank clearing his throat , said without preface , `` I have reason to believe , Mr. Coningsby , that you are attached to my daughter . '' 
`` I have been attached to her for a long time ; most ardently , '' replied Coningsby in a calm and rather measured tone , but looking very pale . 
`` I believe she deigns -- not to disregard it , '' said Coningsby , his white cheek becoming scarlet . 
`` I would fain believe the reverse , '' said Coningsby . 
`` I could conceive that our union might be attended with difficulties , '' said Coningsby in a somewhat deprecating tone . 
`` The sacrifices are more apparent to me than the misery , '' said Coningsby , `` and even they may be imaginary . '' 
Coningsby with his head resting on his arm his face a little shaded , his eyes fixed on the ground , listened in silence . 
There was a pause ; broken by Coningsby , as in a low voice , with out changing his posture or raising his glance , he said : `` It seems , sir , that you were acquainted with my mother ? '' 
do not say it is chance , sir , '' said Coningsby looking up , and speaking with much fervour . 
And you have arrived at that reality , '' he continued , speaking with emphasis , leaning over the back of his chair and looking steadily at Coningsby with his grey , sagacious eye , `` My daughter and yourself can meet no more . '' 
exclaimed Coningsby . 
You are entitled to kindness from us all ; though I will tell you now , that , years ago , when the news arrived that my son 's life had been saved , and had been saved by one who bore the name of Coningsby , I had a presentiment great as was the blessing , that it might lead to unhappiness . '' 
`` I can answer for the misery of one , '' said Coningsby , in a tone of great despondency . 
`` You never could have felt what I feel now , '' said Coningsby , in a tone of anguish . 
He saw her , he sighed ; I will hope that he loved her ; she gave him with rapture the heart which perhaps she found she had never given me ; and instead of bearing the name I had once hoped to have called her by , she pledged her faith at the altar to one who like you was called -- Coningsby . '' 
`` Dear sir , '' said Coningsby , rising and taking Mr. Millbank 's hand , `` I am most wretched ; and yet I wish to part from you even with affection . 
Proceeding down the avenue with a rapid and distempered step , his countenance lost as it were in a wild abstraction , Coningsby encountered Oswald Millbank . 
He stopped , collected his turbulent thoughts , and throwing on Oswald one glance that seemed at the same time to communicate woe and to demand sympathy , flung himself into his arms . 
In the midst of this deep communion , teeming with every thought and sentiment that could enchain and absorb the spirit of man , they came to one of the park gates of Coningsby . 
Lady Wallinger had once wished to have seen the Castle , and Coningsby was only too happy in the prospect of escorting her and Edith over the place ; but Oswald had then at once put his veto on the project , as a thing forbidden ; and which if put in practice his father would never pardon . 
So it passed off , and now Oswald himself was at the gates of that very domain with his friend who was about to enter them , his friend whom he might never see again , that Coningsby who from their boyish days had been the idol of his life , whom he had lived to see appeal to his affections and his sympathy , and whom Oswald was now going to desert in the midst of his lonely and unsolaced woe . 
`` I ought not to enter here , '' said Oswald holding the hand of Coningsby as he hesitated to advance ; `` and yet there are duties more sacred even than obedience to a father . 
Sometimes a beam of hope flashed over the fancy of Coningsby , and jumping up from the turf , on which they were reclining , he seemed to exult in his renovated energies ; and then this sanguine paroxysm was succeeded by a fit of depression so dark and dejected , that nothing but the presence of Oswald seemed to prevent Coningsby from flinging himself into the waters of the Darl . 
Oswald wished to appear at the dinner table of Hellingsley that no suspicion might arise in the mind of his father of his having accompanied Coningsby home . 
But just as he was beginning to mention the necessity of his departure , a flash of lightning seemed to transfix the heavens . 
`` We had better get to the Castle , '' said Coningsby . 
The Castle was close at hand ; Oswald had avoided entering it ; but the impending storm was so menacing , that hurried on by Coningsby he could make no resistance ; and in a few minutes , the companions were watching the tempest from the windows of a room in Coningsby Castle . 
Coningsby and Oswald exchanged looks . 
Coningsby in fact was exhausted by all the agitation of the day , and all the harassing spectres of the future . 
He found wine a momentary solace . 
He ordered the servants away , and for a moment felt a degree of wild satisfaction in the company of the brother of Edith . 
As he was watching the wind , he thought he heard the sound of wheels , which reminded him of Coningsby 's promise to lend him a light carriage for his return . 
They sate down once more ; they had filled their glasses for the last time ; to pledge to their faithful friendship , and the happiness of Coningsby and Edith ; when the door of the room opened , and there appeared -- Mr. Rigby . 
`` Buckhurst is not in that sort of way : he swears by Henry Sydney , a younger son of the Duke , whom you do n't know ; and young Coningsby ; a sort of new set ; new ideas and all that sort of thing . 
Coningsby had just returned from his travels , and they were quite on the ` quivive . ' 
`` Young Coningsby brought it from abroad , did n't you say so , Jemmy ? '' 
`` I tell you what , '' said Mr. Ormsby , looking both sly and solemn , `` I should not be surprised if some day or another , we have a history about Lady Everingham and young Coningsby . '' 
said Mr. Melton , `` he is engaged to be married to her sister , Lady Theresa . '' 
`` He is a devilish good-looking fellow , that young Coningsby , '' said Mr. Cassilis . 
`` All the women are in love with him , they say . 
Lady Eleanor Ducie quite raves about him . '' 
`` By the bye , his grandfather has been very unwell , '' said Mr. Ormsby , looking mysteriously . 
he is quite well again , '' said Mr. Ormsby . 
The day after the arrival of Mr. Rigby at the Castle , Coningsby quitted it for London ; and before a week had elapsed had embarked for Cadiz . 
He felt a romantic interest in visiting the land to which Edith owed some blood , and in acquiring the language which he had often admired as she spoke it . 
A favourable opportunity permitted him in the autumn to visit Athens and the gean , which he much desired . 
In the pensive beauties of that delicate land , where perpetual autumn seems to reign , Coningsby found solace . 
Coningsby passed his winter at Rome . 
The wish of his grandfather had rendered it necessary for him to return to England somewhat abruptly . 
Villebecque had written to Coningsby at Rome by his grandfather 's desire to beg him to return to England and meet Lord Monmouth there . 
The letter was couched with all the respect and good feeling which Villebecque really entertained for him whom he addressed ; still a letter on such a subject from such a person was not agreeable to Coningsby , and his reply to it was direct to his grandfather ; Lord Monmouth however had entirely given over writing letters . 
Coningsby had met at Paris , on his way to England , Lord and Lady Everingham ; and he had returned with them . 
The vivacity of a clever and charming woman pleasantly disturbed the brooding memory of Coningsby . 
`` Pray , Theresa , '' said Lady Everingham , `` where is Mr. Coningsby ? '' 
It so happened that on this day Coningsby and Henry Sydney dined at Grillion 's , at an University club , where among many friends whom Coningsby had not met for a long time , and among delightful reminiscences , the unconscious hours stole on . 
It was late when they quitted Grillion 's , and Coningsby 's brougham was detained for a considerable time before its driver could insinuate himself into the line , which indeed he would never have succeeded in doing , had not he fortunately come across the coachman of the Duke of Agincourt , who being of the same politics as himself , belonging to the same club , and always black-balling the same men , let him in from a legitimate party feeling ; so they arrived in Arlington Street at a very late hour . 
Coningsby was springing up the staircase , now not so crowded as it had been , and met a retiring party ; he was about to say a passing word to a gentleman as he went by , when suddenly Coningsby turned deadly pale . 
Coningsby remained for a moment stupified ; then suddenly turning back , he bounded down stairs , and hurried into the cloak room . 
He met Lady Wallinger ; he spoke rapidly , he held her hand , did not listen to her answers , his eye wandering about . 
There were many persons present , at length he recognised Edith enveloped in her mantle . 
He went forward , he looked at her , as if he would have read her soul ; he said something . 
She changed colour as he addressed her ; but seemed instantly by an effort to rally and regain her equanimity ; replied to his inquiries with extreme brevity , and Lady Wallinger 's carriage being announced , moved away with the same slight haughty salute as before , on the arm of Lord Beaumanoir . 
Sadness fell over the once happy family of Millbank after the departure of Coningsby from Hellingsley . 
When the first pang was over , Edith had found some solace in the sympathy of her aunt , who had always appreciated and admired Coningsby ; but it was a sympathy which aspired only to soften sorrow , and not to create hope . 
But Lady Wallinger , though she lengthened her visit for the sake of her niece , in time quitted them ; and then the name of Coningsby was never heard by Edith . 
Her brother , shortly after the sorrowful and abrupt departure of his friend , had gone to the factories where he remained , and of which in future , it was intended that he should assume the principal direction . 
It would appear that the name of Coningsby to which he now owed a great debt of gratitude was still doomed to bear him mortification and misery . 
And yet Mr. Millbank could not shut his eyes to the devotion of his son to Coningsby . 
If Mr. Millbank had been aware that Oswald had received a letter from Coningsby , written before he quitted Spain , perhaps he might have recognised a more satisfactory reason for the transient liveliness of his daughter which had so greatly gratified him . 
Oswald had heard from Coningsby again from Rome ; but at the period he wrote he did not anticipate his return to England . 
Edith was aware that Coningsby had returned to England , for her brother had heard from him on his arrival ; but Oswald had not heard since . 
A season in London only represented in the mind of Edith the chance , perhaps the certainty , of meeting Coningsby again ; of communing together over the catastrophe of last summer ; of soothing and solacing each other 's unhappiness , and perhaps , with the sanguine imagination of youth foreseeing a more felicitous future . 
She had been nearly a fortnight in town , and though moving frequently in the same circles as Coningsby , they had not yet met . 
The invitation to the assembly at -- House was therefore peculiarly gratifying to Edith , since she could scarcely doubt that if Coningsby were in town , which her casual inquiries of Lord Beaumanoir induced her to believe was the case , that he would be present . 
He was not there ; and at the very moment when disappointed and mortified she most required solace , she learned from Mr. Melton that Lady Theresa Sydney , whom she chanced to admire , was going to be married , and to Mr. Coningsby . 
His silence , perhaps his shunning , of her were no longer inexplicable . 
As for Coningsby , he passed a sleepless night ; agitated by the unexpected presence of Edith and distracted by the manner in which she had received him . 
To say that her appearance had revived all his passionate affection for her would convey an unjust impression of the nature of his feelings . 
His affection had never for a moment swerved ; it was profound and firm . 
But unquestionably this sudden vision had brought in startling and more vivid colours before him the relations that subsisted between them . 
There was the being whom he loved and who loved him ; and whatever were the barriers which the circumstances of life placed against their union , they were partakers of the solemn sacrament of an unpolluted heart . 
Coningsby as we have mentioned had signified his return to England to Oswald : he had hitherto omitted to write again ; not because his spirit faultered , but he was wearied of whispering hope without foundation , and mourning over his chagrined fortunes . 
Once more in England ; once more placed in communication with his grandfather he felt with increased conviction the difficulties which surrounded him . 
But Coningsby had treated the matrimonial project of his gayminded hostess with the courteous levity in which he believed it had at first half originated . 
He admired and liked Lady Theresa ; but there was a reason why he could not marry her , even had his own heart not been absorbed by one of those passions from which men of deep and earnest character never emancipate themselves . 
After musing and meditating again and again over everything that had occurred , Coningsby fell asleep when the morning had far advanced , resolved to rise when a little refreshed and find out Lady Wallinger , who , he felt sure , would receive him with kindness . 
Yet it was fated that this step should not be taken , for while he was at breakfast , his servant brought him a letter from Monmouth House , apprising him that his grandfather wished to see him as soon as possible on urgent business . 
Thus were they occupied , when Coningsby was ushered into the room . 
We are assured the name of Coningsby would be a host ; there is a considerable section who support the present fellow , who will not vote against a Coningsby . 
You may be sure I shall spare nothing : and it will be very gratifying to me , after being robbed of all our boroughs , that the only Coningsby who cares to enter Parliament , should nevertheless be able to do so as early as I could fairly desire . '' 
Coningsby the rival of Mr. Millbank on the hustings of Darlford ! 
What sympathy could there exist between Coningsby and the `` great Conservative party , '' that for ten years in an age of revolution had never promulgated a principle ; whose only intelligible and consistent policy seemed to be an attempt , very grateful of course to the feelings of an English Royalist , to revive Irish Puritanism ; who when in power in 1835 had used that power only to evince their utter ignorance of Church principles ; and who were at this moment , when Coningsby was formally solicited to join their ranks , in open insurrection against the prerogatives of the English Monarchy . 
inquired Coningsby after a moment 's pause . 
`` Do n't you think , sir , '' said Coningsby , `` that such an announcement would be rather premature ? 
Coningsby looked on the carpet , cleared his throat as if about to speak , and then gave something like a sigh . 
`` You are most kind , you are always most kind to me , dear sir , '' said Coningsby in a hesitating tone , and with an air of great embarrassment ; `` but , in truth , I have no wish to enter Parliament . '' 
`` I feel that I am not yet sufficiently prepared for so great a responsibility as a seat in the House of Commons , '' said Coningsby . 
`` It is not exactly that , sir , '' said Coningsby . 
`` You mentioned that I had nothing to do but to vote with my party , sir , '' replied Coningsby . 
`` I am sorry , '' said Coningsby , rather pale , but speaking with firmness , `` I am sorry that I could not support the Conservative party . '' 
`` No , my dear grandfather , '' said Coningsby , scarcely able to repress a smile , serious as the interview was becoming , `` nothing of the kind , I assure you . 
`` I wish to be frank , sir , '' said Coningsby , `` and am very sensible of your goodness in permitting me to speak to you on the subject . 
`` I should be very sorry to see secret Committees of great 1688 Nobles again , '' said Coningsby . 
`` Political Faith , '' said Coningsby , `` instead of Political Infidelity . '' 
`` Before I support Conservative principles , '' continued Coningsby , `` I merely wish to be informed what those principles aim to conserve . 
`` I should grieve to be backward in anything that concerned your interest or your honour , sir , '' said Coningsby with an air of great embarrassment . 
`` And I feel at this moment , '' continued Coningsby , `` that there is no personal sacrifice which I am not prepared to make for them , except one . 
`` I am sure I wish to express them with no unbecoming confidence ; '' replied Coningsby ; `` I have never intruded them on your ear before ; but this being an occasion , when you yourself said , sir , I was about to commence my public career , I confess I thought it was my duty to be frank ; I would not entail on myself long years of mortification by one of those ill-considered entrances into political life which so many public men have cause to deplore . '' 
`` Yes , sir , '' said Coningsby with animation , `` but men going with their families , like gentlemen , and losing sight of every principle on which the society of this country ought to be established , produced the Reform Bill . '' 
`` You are in as great peril now as you were in 1830 , '' said Coningsby . 
said Coningsby . 
You will meet him I doubt not like a man of sense , '' added Lord Monmouth , looking at Coningsby with a glance such as he had never before encountered , `` who is not prepared to sacrifice all the objects of life , for the pursuit of some fantastical puerilities . '' 
It would have been difficult for any person , unconcious of crime , to have felt more dejected than Coningsby , when he rode out of the court - yard of Monmouth Houe . 
The love of Edith would have consoled him for the destruction of his prosperity ; the proud fulfilment of his ambition might in time have proved some compensation for his crushed affections ; but his present position seemed to offer no single source of solace . 
There came over him that irresistable conviction , that is at times the dark doom of all of us , that the bright period of our life is past ; that a future awaits us only of anxiety , failure , mortification , depair ; that none of our resplendent visions can be ever realized , and that we add but one more victim to the long and dreary catalogue of baffled aspirations . 
Prone as eloquent youth generally is to believe in the resistless power of its appeals , Coningsby despaired at once of ever moving Lord Monmouth . 
There had been a callous dryness in his manner , an unswerving purpose in his spirit , that at once baffled all attempts at influence . 
Nor could Coningsby forget the glance he received when he quitted the room . 
A clever woman might have afforded even more than sympathy ; some happy device that might have even released him from the mesh in which he was involved . 
And once Coningsby had turned his horse 's head to Park Lane to call on Lady Everingham . 
Then there was Lady Wallinger ; he could at least speak with freedom to her . 
He resolved to tell her all . 
He looked in for a moment at a Club to take up the Court Guide and find her direction . 
He heard Mr. Cassilis say , `` So Beau they say is booked at last ; the new beauty , have you heard ? '' 
Coningsby threw down the Court Guide with a sinking heart . 
In spite of every insuperable difficulty , hitherto the end and object of all his aspirations and all his exploits , sometimes even almost unconsciously to himself , was to be Edith . 
The heart that once had been his was now anothers . 
Coningsby quitted the Club , and mounting his horse , rode rapidly out of town , almost unconscious of his direction . 
He found himself at length in a green lane near Willesden , silent and undisturbed ; he pulled up his horse and he summoned all his mind to the contemplation of his prospects . 
Now , should he return to his grandfather , accept his mission , and go down to Darlford on Friday ? 
Might not he add even vengeance ? 
Was there to be no term to his endurance ? 
Might not he teach this proud prejudiced manufacturer , with all his virulence and despotic caprices , a memorable lesson ? 
And his daughter too , this betrothed after all of a young noble , with her flush futurity of splendour and enjoyment , was she to hear of him only , if indeed she heard of him at all , as of one toiling or trifling in the humbler positions of existence ; and wonder with a blush that he ever could have been the hero of her romantic girlhood ! 
His cheek burnt at the possibility of such ignominy ! 
It was a conjuncture in his life that required decision . 
He thought of his companions who looked up to him with such ardent anticipations of his fame , of delight in his career , and confidence in his leading ; were all these high and fond fancies to be baulked ? 
On the very threshold of life was he to blunder ? 
'T is the first step that leads to all ; and his was to be a wilful error . 
He remembered his first visit to his grandfather , and the delight of his friends at Eton at his report on his return . 
After eight years of initiation , was he to lose that favour then so highly prized , when the results which they had so long counted on , were on the very eve of accomplishment . 
Was he to sacrifice them for speculations , theories , shadows , perhaps the vapours of a green and conceited brain ? 
No , by Heaven no ; he was like Csar by the starry river 's side , watching the image of the planets on its fatal waters . 
The sun set ; the twilight spell fell upon his soul ; the exaltation of his spirit died away . 
Beautiful thoughts , full of sweetness and tranquillity and consolation , came clustering round his heart like seraphs . 
He thought of Edith in her hours of fondness ; he thought of the pure and solemn moments when to mingle his name with the heroes of humanity was his aspiration , and to achieve immortal fame the inspiring purpose of his life . 
What were the tawdry accidents of vulgar ambition to him ! 
Coningsby felt at this moment a profound conviction which never again deserted him , that the conduct which would violate the affections of the heart or the dictates of the conscience , however it may lead to immediate success , is a fatal error . 
Conscious that he was perhaps verging on some painful vicissitudes of his life , he devoted himself to a love that seemed hopeless , and to a fame that was perhaps a dream . 
It was under the influence of these solemn resolutions , that he wrote on his return home , a letter to Lord Monmouth , in which he expressed all that affection , which he really felt for his grandfather , and all the pangs which it cost him to adhere to the conclusions he had already announced . 
In terms of tenderness and even humility he declined to become a candidate for Darlford , or even to enter Parliament except as the master of his own conduct . 
It was about two hours after Coningsby had quitted Monmouth House , and Flora came in , sent for by Lady Monmouth , as was her custom to read to her as she was employed with some light work . 
madam , '' she at last exclaimed , `` if you would but speak to Mr. Coningsby all might be right ! '' 
`` My Lord , '' sobbed Flora , `` has quarrelled with Mr. Coningsby . '' 
`` I do not know they have quarrelled ; it is not perhaps a right term ; but my Lord is very angry with Mr. Coningsby . '' 
very angry , madam , '' said Flora , shaking her head mournfully , `` my Lord told M. Villebecque that perhaps Mr. Coningsby would never enter the house again . '' 
`` This morning ; Mr. Coningsby has only left this hour or two . 
He will not do what my Lord wishes -- about some seat in the Chamber . 
My father went for Mr. Rigby this morning before Mr. Coningsby came , and he found that Mr. Rigby was not in town . 
Stop : find out all you can for me about the quarrel , before I speak to Mr. Coningsby . '' 
Arriving in town , the day after Coningsby 's interview with his grandfather , Mr. Rigby found a summons to Monmouth House waiting him , and an urgent note from Lucretia begging that he would permit nothing to prevent him seeing her for a few minutes before he called on the Marquess . 
Lucretia , acting on the unconscious intimation of Flora , had in the course of four-and-twenty hours obtained pretty ample and accurate details of the cause of contention between Coningsby and her husband . 
`` I told you to beware of him long ago , '' said Lady Monmouth . 
`` He is , he has ever been , in the way of both of us . '' 
`` He is in my power , '' said Rigby ; `` we can crush him . '' 
`` He is in love with the daughter of Millbank , the man who bought Hellingsley . '' 
`` He was at Coningsby all last summer hanging about her . 
`` But it is now most mature ; let us not conceal it from ourselves , that since his first visit to Coningsby , we have neither of us really been in the same position which we then occupied , or believed we should occupy . 
Rid me of this Coningsby , and I will secure you all that you want . 
If good , you will guide him more easily ; if dark , the love for the Hellingsley girl , the fact of the brother being in his Castle , drinking his wine , riding his horses , ordering about his servants , you will omit no details -- a Millbank quite at home at Coningsby will lash him to madness ! 
Go , go , or he may hear that you have arrived . 
Her original prejudice against Coningsby and jealousy of his influence had therefore of late been considerably aggravated ; and the intelligence that for the first time there was a misunderstanding between Coningsby and her husband filled her with excitement and hope . 
`` Does he know about the Millbanks ? '' 
`` And what did he say ? '' 
`` His Lordship was greatly shocked , '' replied Mr. Rigby with a pious expression of features . 
As his Lordship very justly observed , it is impossible to say what is going on under my own roof , or to whom I can trust . '' 
`` But he made an exception in your favour , I dare say , my dear Mr. Rigby , '' said Lady Monmouth . 
And what is to become of Mr. Coningsby ? '' 
`` The steps which his Lordship is about to take with reference to his establishment generally , '' said Mr. Rigby , `` will allow the connection that at present subsists between that gentleman and his noble relative , now that Lord Monmouth 's eyes are open to his real character , to terminate naturally without the necessity of any formal explanation . '' 
A paragraph in the Morning Post a few days after his interview with his grandfather , announcing that Lord and Lady Monmouth had quitted town for the Baths of Kissingen , startled Coningsby , who called the same day at Monmouth House in consequence . 
There he learnt more authentic details of their unexpected movements . 
It appeared that Lady Monmouth had certainly departed ; and the porter with a rather sceptical visage informed Coningsby that Lord Monmouth was to follow ; but when he could not tell . 
At present his Lordship was at Brighton , and in a few days was about to take possession of a villa at Richmond which had for some time been fitting up for him under the superintendence of Mr. Rigby , who , as Coningsby also learnt , now permanently resided at Monmouth House . 
All this intelligence made Coningsby ponder . 
He was sufficiently acquainted with the parties concerned to feel assured that he had not learnt the whole truth . 
What had really taken place , and what was the real cause of the occurrences , were equally mystical to him : all he was convinced of was , that some great domestic revolution had been suddenly effected . 
Coningsby entertained for his grandfather a sincere affection . 
With the exception of their last unfortunate interview , he had experienced from Lord Monmouth nothing but kindness both in phrase and deed . 
There was also something in Lord Monmouth , when he pleased it , rather fascinating to young men ; and as Coningsby had never occasioned him any feelings but pleasurable ones , he was always disposed to make himself delightful to his grandson . 
With these feelings Coningsby resolved the moment that he learned that his grandfather was established at Richmond to pay him a visit . 
He was informed that Lord Monmouth was at home , and he was shown into a drawingroom , where he found two French ladies in their bonnets , who he soon discovered to be actresses . 
Coningsby found them extremely amusing ; with the finest spirits in the world , imperturbable good temper , and an unconscious practical philosophy , that defied the devil Care and all his works . 
The ladies and Coningsby had exhausted badinage ; they had examined and criticised all the furniture ; had rifled the vases of their prettiest flowers ; and Clotilde who had already sung several times , was proposing a duet to Ermengarde , when a servant entered , and told the ladies that a carriage was in attendance to give them an airing , and after that Lord Monmouth hoped they would return and dine with him ; then turning to Coningsby he informed him with his Lord 's compliments , that Lord Monmouth was sorry he was too much engaged to see him . 
`` Embrace Lord Monmouth for me , '' said Coningsby to his fair friends , `` and tell him I think it very unkind that he did not ask me to dinner with you . '' 
Coningsby said this with a gay air , but really with a depressed spirit . 
He felt convinced that his grandfather was deeply displeased with him , and as he rode away from the villa , he could not resist the strong impression that he was destined never to enter it . 
It so happened that the idle message which Coningsby had left for his grandfather , and which he never seriously supposed for a moment that his late companions would have given their host , operated entirely in his favour . 
Whatever were the feelings with respect to Coningsby at the bottom of Lord Monmouth 's heart , he was actuated in his refusal to see him not more from displeasure , than from an anticipatory horror of something like a scene . 
Even a surrender from Coningsby without terms , and an offer to declare himself a candidate for Darlford , or to do anything else that his grandfather wished , would have been disagreeable to Lord Monmouth in his present mood . 
And then without waiting for his reply entered with that rapidity of elocution which Frenchwomen can alone command into the catalogue of his charms and accomplishments , Lord Monmouth began to regret that he really had not seen Coningsby who it appears might have greatly contributed to the pleasure of the day . 
And so it was , that , in spite of all the combinations of Lucretia and Mr. Rigby , and the mortification and resentment of Lord Monmouth , the favourable impression he casually made on a couple of French actresses occasioned Coningsby , before a month had elapsed since his memorable interview at Monmouth House , to receive an invitation again to dine with his grandfather . 
A Carlist nobleman who lived upon his traditions , and who though without a sou could tell of a festival given by his family before the revolution which had cost a million of francs , and a Neapolitan physician , in whom Lord Monmouth had great confidence and who himself believed in the Elixir Vit , made up the party with Lucian Gay , Coningsby and Mr. Rigby . 
Coningsby and Edith met frequently , if to breathe the same atmosphere in the same crowded saloons can be described as meeting ; ever watching each other 's movements and yet studious never to encounter each other 's glance . 
As for Coningsby , he passed his life principally with the various members of the Sydney family ; and was almost daily riding with Lady Everingham and her sister , generally accompanied by Lord Henry and his friend Eustace Lyle , between whom indeed and Coningsby there were relations of intimacy scarcely less inseparable . 
Coningsby had spoken to Lady Everingham of the rumoured marriage of her elder brother , and found , although the family had not yet been formally apprised of it , she entertained very little doubt of its ultimate occurrence . 
On the whole , though he bore a serene aspect to the world , Coningsby passed this month in a state of restless misery . 
His soul was brooding on one subject and he had no confidant ; he could not resist the spell that impelled him to the society where Edith might at least be seen ; and the circle in which he lived was one in which her name was frequently mentioned . 
Alone , in his solitary rooms in the Albany , he felt all his desolation ; and often a few minutes before he figured in the world apparently followed and courted by all , he had been plunged in the darkest fits of irremediable wetchedness . 
He had of course frequently met Lady Wallinger , but their salutations though never omitted and on each side cordial , were brief . 
The season waned ; in the fulfilment of a project originally formed in the Playing fields of Eton , often recurred to at Cambridge , and cherished with the fondness with which men cling to a scheme of early youth , Coningsby , Henry Sydney , Vere and Buckhurst , had engaged some moors together this year ; and in a few days they were about to quit town for Scotland . 
`` My fte was prophetic , '' said Lady Everingham when she saw Coningsby . 
`` At any rate , '' said Lady Everingham sighing with a rather smiling face , `` we are kinsfolk Mr. Coningsby ; though I would gladly have wished to have been more . '' 
But such happiness , '' he added in a mournful tone , `` I fear can never be mine . '' 
`` Here comes a group that will make you gay , '' said Coningsby as he moved on . 
Coningsby stopped to speak to Lady St. Julians , who had still a daughter to marry . 
In case Coningsby did not determine to become her son-in-law himself , he might counsel either of his friends to a judicious decision on an inevitable act . 
About an hour after this Coningsby who had just quitted the Duchess , met on the terrace by the river Lady Wallinger walking with Mrs. Guy Flouncey and a Russian Prince whom that lady was enchanting . 
Coningsby was about to pass with some slight courtesy , but Lady Wallinger stopped and would speak to him : on very slight subjects ; the weather and the fte ; but yet enough adroitly managed to make him turn and join her . 
Lady Wallinger followed with Coningsby . 
said Coningsby , `` I confess I was long prepared for it . 
`` Do you know , Mr. Coningsby , that I always thought you were engaged to Lady Theresa ? '' 
`` You remember our meeting you on the stairs at -- House , Mr. Coningsby . '' 
`` Not surely by him to whom she is herself going to be married , '' said Coningsby reddening . 
But Edith has given him no encouragement , at least gave him no encouragement as long as she believed -- but why dwell on such an unhappy subject , Mr. Coningsby . 
At this moment Mrs. Guy Flouncey turned round , and assuring Lady Wallinger that the Prince and herself had agreed to refer some point to her about the most transcendental ethics of flirtation , this deeply interesting conversation was arrested , and Lady Wallinger with becoming suavity was obliged to listen to the lady 's lively appeal of exaggerated nonsense , and the Prince affected protests , while Coningsby walked by her side pale and agitated , and then offered his arm to Lady Wallinger which she accepted with an affectionate pressure . 
`` There is Sir Joseph , '' said Lady Wallinger , and Coningsby looked up , and saw Edith on his arm . 
Edith was extremely amused by him ; and was encouraging by her smile his spiritual excesses , when they all suddenly met Lady Wallinger and Coningsby . 
The eyes of Edith and Coningsby met for the first time since they so cruelly encountered on the staircase of -- House . 
he presses once more that hand which permanently to retain is the passion of his life , yet which may never be his ! 
It seemed that for the ravishing delight of that moment , he could have borne with cheerfulness all the dark and harrowing misery of the year that had past away since he embraced her in the woods of Hellingsley , and pledged his faith by the waters of the rushing Darl . 
He seized the occasion which offered itself , a moment to walk by her side , and to snatch some brief instants of unreserved communion . 
said Coningsby . 
Coningsby too was there , and all his friends . 
`` No one has a chance against Buckhurst , '' said Coningsby . 
Coningsby shall carry the Boar 's head . 
They brought in the Boar 's head on a large silver dish , and Coningsby raised it aloft . 
They formed into procession , the Duchess distributing rosemary , Buckhurst swaggering with all the majesty of Tamerlane , his mock court irresistibly humorous with their servility , and the sweet voice of Lady Everingham chaunting the first verse of the Canticle , followed in the second by the rich tones of Lady Theresa . 
He was addressing his court in a pompous rhapsody of merry nonsense , when a servant approached Coningsby and told him that he was wanted without . 
A despatch had arrived for him from London . 
Without any prescience of its purpose , he nevertheless broke the seal with a trembling hand . 
His presence was immediately desired in town -- Lord Monmouth was dead . 
This was a crisis in the life of Coningsby ; yet , like many critical epochs , the person most interested in it was not sufficiently aware of its character . 
The neglect and hardships of his early years , instead of leaving a prejudice against one who by some might be esteemed their author , had only rendered by their contrast Coningsby more keenly sensible of the solicitude and enjoyment which had been lavished on his happy youth . 
Lord Monmouth had more than once assured Coningsby that he had provided for him as became a near relative to whom he was attached ; and in a manner which ought to satisfy the wants and wishes of an English gentleman . 
He looked to Coningsby as the future representative of an ancient Barony , and had been purchasing territory with the view of supporting the title . 
But Coningsby did not by any means firmly reckon on these views being realized . 
He had a suspicion that in thwarting the wishes of his grandfather in not becoming a candidate for Darlford , he had at the moment arrested arrangements which , from the tone of Lord Monmouth 's communication , he believed were then in progress for that purpose ; and he thought it improbable , with his knowledge of his grandfather 's habits , that Lord Monmouth had found either time or inclination to resume before his decease the completion of these plans . 
Indeed there was a period when in adopting the course which he pursued with respect to Darlford , Coningsby was well aware that he perilled more than the large fortune which was to accompany the Barony . 
Had not a separation between Lord Monmouth and his wife taken place simultaneously with Coningsby 's difference with his grandfather , he was conscious that the consequences might have been even altogether fatal to his prospects ; but the absence of her evil influence at such a conjuncture , its permanent removal indeed from the scene , coupled with his fortunate though not formal reconciliation with Lord Monmouth , had long ago banished from his memory all those apprehensions to which he had felt it impossible at the time to shut his eyes . 
Before he left town for Scotland , he had made a farewell visit to his grandfather , who , though not as cordial as in old days , had been gracious ; and Coningsby , during his excursion to the moors , and his various visits to the country , had continued at intervals to write to his grandfather , as had been for some years his custom . 
On the whole , with an indefinite feeling which , in spite of many a rational effort , did nevertheless haunt his mind , that this great and sudden event might exercise a very vast and beneficial influence on his worldly position , Coningsby could not but feel some consolation in the affliction which he sincerely experienced , in the hope that he might at all events now offer to Edith a home worthy of her charms , her virtues , and her love . 
Although he had not seen her since their hurried yet sweet reconciliation in the gardens of Lady Everingham , Coningsby was never long without indirect intelligence of the incidents of her life ; and the correspondence between Lady Everingham and Henry Sydney , while they were at the moors , had apprised him that Lord Beaumanoir 's suit had terminated unsuccessfully almost immediately after his brother had quitted London . 
It was late in the evening when Coningsby arrived in town : he called at once on Lord Eskdale , who was one of Lord Monmouth 's executors ; and he persuaded Coningsby , whom he saw depressed , to dine with him alone . 
He spoke as a matter of course that Coningsby was his grandfather 's principal heir . 
After the funeral , the will was to be read in the principal saloon of Monmouth House , one of those gorgeous apartments that had excited the boyish wonder of Coningsby on his first visit to that paternal roof , and now hung in black adorned with the escutcheon of the deceased peer . 
Coningsby , who had been chief mourner , stood on the right hand of the solicitor , who sat at the end of a long table , round which in groups were ranged all who had attended the funeral , including several of the superior members of the household ; among them M. Villebecque . 
By this will , of the date of 1829 , the sum of ten thousand pounds was left to Coningsby , then unknown to his grandfather ; the same sum to Mr. Rigby . 
There followed several codicils which did not materially effect the previous disposition ; one of them leaving a legacy of # 20,000 to the Princess Colonna ; until they arrived at the latter part of the year 1832 , when a codicil increased the # 10,000 left under the will to Coningsby to # 50,000 . 
After Coningsby 's visit to the Castle in 1836 a very important change occurred in the disposition of Lord Monmouth 's estate . 
A similar amount was bequeathed to Mr. Rigby ; and Coningsby was left sole residuary legatee . 
An estate of about nine thousand a year which Lord Monmouth had himself purchased , and was therefore in his own disposition was left to Coningsby . 
The legacy to Mr. Rigby was reduced to # 20,000 , and the whole of his residue left to his issue by Lady Monmouth ; in case he died without issue , the estate bequeathed to Coningsby to be taken into account , and the residue then to be divided equally between Lady Monmouth and his grandson . 
Coningsby was silent , his brow a little knit ; Mr. Rigby was extremely pale and restless , but said nothing . 
He had not of course attended the funeral , nor had he as yet exchanged any recognition with Coningsby . 
They came to the year 1839 , the year Coningsby was at Hellingsley . 
This appeared to be a very critical period in the fortunes of Lady Monmouth ; while Coningsby 's reached to the culminating point . 
Mr. Rigby was reduced to his original legacy under the will of # 10,000 ; a sum of equal amount was bequeathed to Armand Villebecque in acknowledgment of faithful services ; all the disposition in favour of Lady Monmouth were revoked , and she was limited to her moderate jointure of # 3,000 per annum , under the marriage settlement ; while everything without reserve was left absolutely to Coningsby . 
As for Coningsby he saw nobody . 
He felt assured that as Lady Monmouth had already been disposed of , it must principally refer to the disheritance of Coningsby -- secured by Rigby 's well-timed and malignant mis-representations of what had occurred in Lancashire during the preceding summer . 
Coningsby turned pale ; he lost his abstracted look , he caught the eye of Rigby , he read the latent malice of that nevertheless anxious countenance . 
What passed through the mind and being of Coningsby was thought and sensation enough for a year , yet it was as the flash that reveals a whole country , yet ceases to be ere one can say it lightens . 
`` This is a crash , '' said Coningsby with a grave rather than agitated countenance to Sidonia , as his friend came up to greet him without however any expression of condolence . 
Coningsby shrugged his shoulders . 
So saying Sidonia good-naturedly got Coningsby out of the room . 
When they had arrived there , Sidonia ordered their dinner instantly , and during the interval between the command and its appearance , he called Coningsby 's attention to an old German painting he had just received , its brilliant colouring and quaint costumes . 
`` Eat , and an appetite will come , '' said Sidonia , when he observed Coningsby somewhat reluctant . 
`` A sorry one , I fear , '' said Coningsby . 
`` Come , come , Coningsby , the calamity can not be very great . '' 
said Coningsby , despondingly . 
`` You console me , '' said Coningsby , with a faint blush and a fainter smile . 
`` You read my thoughts , '' said Coningsby . 
`` I have resolved , '' said Coningsby ; `` I will try for the Great Seal . '' 
Alone in his chambers , no longer under the sustaining influence of Sidonia 's converse and counsel , the shades of night descending and bearing gloom to the gloomy , all the excitement of his spirit evaporated , the heart of Coningsby sank . 
Coningsby passed an agitated night of broken sleep , waking often with a consciousness of having experienced some great misfortune , yet with a very indefinite conception of its nature . 
He woke exhausted and dispirited . 
It was a gloomy day , a raw north-easter blowing up the cloisters of the Albany , in which the fog was lingering , the newspaper on his breakfast table full of rumoured particulars of his grandfather 's will , which had of course been duly digested by all who knew him : What a contrast to St. Genevive ! 
That radiant and cheerful scene , and those gracious and beaming personages , seemed another world and order of beings to the one he now habited and the people with whom he must now commune . 
He gave orders that he was at home to no one ; and in his dressing gown and slippers , with his feet resting on the fire-place , the once high-souled and noble-hearted Coningsby delivered himself up to despair . 
Nothing rose to his consciousness . 
He was like a particle of Chaos ; at the best , a glimmering entity of some shadowy Hades . 
Coningsby roused himself , dressed , and wrapping his cloak around him sallied forth . 
Once more in the mighty streets , surrounded by millions , his petty griefs and personal fortunes assumed their proper position . 
`` The greatness of this city destroys my misery , '' said Coningsby , `` and my genius shall conquer its greatness ! '' 
From that moment all petty fears for an ordinary future quitted him . 
He felt that he must be prepared for great sacrifices , for infinite suffering ; that there must devolve on him a bitter inheritance of obscurity , struggle , envy and hatred , vulgar prejudice , base criticism , petty hostilities , but the dawn would break , and the hour arrive , when the welcome morning hymn of his success and his fame would sound and be re-echoed . 
He returned to his rooms ; calm , resolute . 
He slept the deep sleep of a man void of anxiety ; that has neither hope nor fear to haunt his visions , but is prepared to rise on the morrow collected for the great human struggle . 
Fresh , vigorous , not rash or precipitate , yet determined to lose no time in idle meditation , Coningsby already resolved at once to quit his present residence was projecting a visit to some legal quarter , where he intended in future to reside , when his servant brought him a note . 
She begged Mr. Coningsby with great earnestness to do her the honour and the kindness of calling on her at his earliest convenience , at the hotel in Brook Street where she now resided . 
It was an interview which Coningsby would rather have avoided ; yet it seemed to him , after a moment 's reflection , neither just nor kind , nor manly to refuse her request . 
Flora had not injured him . 
She was after all his kin . 
Was it for a moment to be supposed that he was envious of her lot ? 
He replied , therefore , that in an hour he would wait upon her . 
Then Coningsby was the patron , a generous and spontaneous one , of a being obscure , almost friendless , and sinking under bitter mortification . 
His favour could not be the less appreciated because he was the chosen relative of a powerful noble . 
That noble was no more ; his vast inheritance had devolved on the disregarded , even despised actress , whose suffering emotions Coningsby had then soothed , and whose fortune had risen on the destruction of all his prospects , and the baulk of all his aspirations . 
Flora was alone when Coningsby was ushered into the room . 
Coningsby extended his hand to her affectionately in which she placed her own , looking down much embarrassed . 
`` You have an agreeable situation here , '' said Coningsby , trying to break the first awkwardness of their meeting . 
`` I am sure , '' said Coningsby in a tone of great kindness , `` that you could injure no one . '' 
`` We will care not what they say , '' said Coningsby , `` I can sustain my lot . '' 
`` The fortune is yours , dear Flora , by every right ; '' said Coningsby much moved ; `` and there is no one who wishes more fervently , that it may contribute to your happiness than I do . '' 
`` I shall soon learn to find content , if not happiness , from other sources , '' said Coningsby ; `` and mere riches , however vast , could at no time have secured my felicity . '' 
`` But they may secure that which brings felicity , '' said Flora , speaking in a choaking voice , and not meeting the glance of Coningsby . 
Speak to me , for I can not speak , dear Mr. Coningsby ; do not let me believe that I , who would sacrifice my life for your happiness , am the cause of such calamities ! '' 
`` Whatever be my lot , I repeat I can sustain it , '' said Coningsby with a cheek of scarlet . 
he is angry with me , '' exclaimed Flora , `` he is angry with me , '' and the tears stole down her pale cheek . 
`` No , no , no , dear Flora ; I have no other feelings to you but those of affection and respect , '' and Coningsby much agitated drew his chair nearer to her and took her hand . 
He rose as if to depart . 
Mournfully he bade her farewell . 
About a week after this interview with Flora , as Coningsby one morning was about to sally forth from the Albany to visit some chambers in the Temple to which his notice had been attracted , there was a loud ring , a bustle in the hall , and Henry Sydney and Buckhurst were ushered in . 
The truth is , the paragraphs in the newspapers had circulated in the country , they had written to Coningsby , and after a brief delay he had confirmed their worst apprehensions . 
Buckhurst after many embraces , and some ordinary talk , took Coningsby aside , and said , `` My dear fellow , I have no objection to Henry Sydney hearing everything I say ; but still these are subjects which men like to be discussed in private . 
If there were any fellow 's fortune in the world that Coningsby would share , Buckhurst 's would have had the preference , but while he pressed his hand , and with a glance in which a tear and a smile seemed to contend for mastery , he gently indicated why such arrangements were with our present manners impossible . 
`` There is something in that , '' said Coningsby . 
The calmer Henry Sydney was consoled for the misfortunes of Coningsby by a fanciful project himself to pass a portion of his life amid these halls and courts , gardens and terraces , that maintain in the heart of a great city in the nineteenth century so much of the grave romance and picturesque decorum of our past manners . 
Henry Sydney was very sanguine ; he was reconciled to the disinheritance of Coningsby by the conviction that it was a providential dispensation to make him a Lord Chancellor . 
These faithful friends remained in town with Coningsby until he was established in Paper Buildings , and had become a pupil of a celebrated special pleader . 
They would have remained longer , had not he himself suggested that it was better that they should part . 
`` And this is the end of Coningsby , the brilliant Coningsby , that we all loved , that was to be our leader ! '' 
We must write to him very often ; and contrive to be frequently together . 
I never felt more wretched than I do at this moment , and yet I have faith that we shall not lose him . '' 
He might have been Prime Minister : several strangers have been ; and as for war , look at Brown and Laudohn and half a hundred others . 
`` I feel quite convinced that Coningsby will be Lord Chancellor , '' said Henry Sydney gravely . 
This change of life for Coningsby was a great social revolution . 
Within a month after the death of his grandfather , his name had been erased from all his fashionable clubs , his horses and carriages sold , and he had become a student of the Temple . 
He entirely devoted himself to his new pursuit . 
His being was completely absorbed in it . 
There was nothing to haunt his mind ; no inexperienced scene or sensation of life to distract his intelligence . 
One sacred thought alone indeed there remained , shrined in the innermost sanctuary of his heart and consciousness . 
The moment that he had fairly recovered from the first shock of his grandfather 's will , had clearly ascertained the consequences to himself , and had resolved on the course to pursue , he had communicated unreservedly with Oswald Millbank , and had renounced those pretensions to the hand of his sister which it ill became the destitute to prefer . 
Millbank met Henry Sydney and Buckhurst at the chambers of Coningsby . 
Alone with Coningsby , Millbank spoke to him things which letters could not convey . 
He bore to him all the sympathy and devotion of Edith , but they would not conceal from themselves that , at this moment , and in the present state of affairs , all was hopeless . 
In no way did Coningsby ever permit himself to intimate to Oswald the cause of his disinheritance . 
He was of course silent on it to his other friends , as any communication of the kind must have touched on a subject that was consecrated in his inmost soul . 
Notwithstanding the abstraction of his legal studies , Coningsby could not be altogether insensible to the political crisis . 
In the political world of course he never mixed , but the friends of his boyhood were deeply interested in affairs , and they lost no opportunity which he would permit them , of cultivating his society . 
Coningsby had once met Mr. Rigby who was walking with the Duke of Agincourt , which was probably the reason he could not notice a lawyer . 
Mr. Rigby cut Coningsby . 
Lord Eskdale had obtained from Villebecque very accurate details as to the cause of Coningsby being disherited . 
Lord Eskdale had been more frank with Sidonia , and had told him all about the refusal to become a candidate for Darlford against Mr. Millbank , the communication of Rigby to Lord Monmouth as to the presence of Oswald Millbank at the Castle and the love of Coningsby for his sister ; all these details , furnished by Villebecque to Lord Eskdale had been duly transferred by that nobleman to his co-executor ; and Sidonia , when he had sufficiently digested them , had made Lady Wallinger acquainted with the whole history . 
They sent their addresses to Coningsby . 
Coningsby was walking up Pall Mall . 
He was going to dine at the Oxford and Cambridge Club , the only club on whose list he had retained his name , that he might occasionally have the pleasure of meeting an Eton or Cambridge friend without the annoyance of encountering any of his former fashionable acquaintances . 
He lighted in his walk on Mr. Tadpole and Mr. Taper , both of whom he knew . 
The latter did not notice him , but Mr. Tadpole more good-natured bestowed on him a rough nod , not unmarked by a slight expression of coarse pity . 
Coningsby ordered his dinner , and then took up the evening papers , where he learnt the return of Vere and Lyle ; and read a speech of Buckhurst denouncing the Venetian Constitution to the amazement of several thousand persons apparently not a little terrified by this unknown danger , now first introduced to their notice . 
Coningsby had dined , and was reading in the library , when a waiter brought up a third edition of the Sun , with electioneering bulletins from the manufacturing districts to the very latest hour . 
The moderate man who thought more of local than political circumstances liked the name of Coningsby . 
Some traits of the character and conduct of Coningsby had been cleverly circulated . 
Here was a revolution in the fortunes of our forlorn Coningsby ! 
In a tumult of suppressed emotion , Coningsby returned to his chambers . 
He found a letter in his box from Oswald Millbank , who had been twice at the Temple . 
Oswald had been returned without a contest , and had reached Darlford in time to hear Coningsby nominated . 
He set off instantly to London for Coningsby and left at his friend 's chambers a rapid narrative of what had happened , with information that he should call on him again on the morrow at nine o'clock , when they were to repair together immediately to Darlford in time for Coningsby to be chaired , for no one entertained a doubt of his triumph . 
Coningsby did not sleep a wink that night , and yet when he rose early felt fresh enough for any exploit however difficult or hazardous . 
He felt as an Egyptian does when the Nile rises after its elevation had been despaired of . 
At the very lowest ebb of his fortunes , an event had occurred which seemed to restore all . 
He dared not contemplate the ultimate result of all these wonderful changes . 
Enough for him that when all seemed dark , he was about to be returned to Parliament by the father of Edith , and his vanquished rival who was to bite the dust before him , was the author of all his misfortunes . 
Love , Vengeance , Justice , the glorious pride of having acted rightly , the triumphant sense of complete and absolute success -- here were chaotic materials from which order was at length evolved ; and all-subsided in an overwhelming feeling of gratitude to that Providence that had so signally protected him . 
It seemed that Oswald was as excited as Coningsby . 
His eye sparkled , his manner was energetic . 
During that journey , Coningsby learned something of the course of affairs which gradually had brought about so singular a revolution in his favour . 
We mentioned that Sidonia had acquired a thorough knowledge of the circumstances which had occasioned and attended the disheritance of Coningsby . 
She was not surprised at the goodness of Coningsby , and she sympathized with all his calamities . 
They were both absolutely impressed with Coningsby 's admirable conduct , and Lady Wallinger was determined that her husband should express to others the convictions which he acknowledged in unison with herself . 
After some time , Mr. Millbank made inquiries about Coningsby , took an interest in his career , and , like Lord Eskdale , declared that when he was called to the bar , his friends would have an opportunity to evince their sincerity . 
When he computed the vast wealth which he knew was at his parent 's command and recalled Coningsby in his humble chambers toiling after all his noble efforts without any results , and his sister pining in a provincial solitude , Oswald began to curse wealth and to ask himself what was the use of all their marvellous industry and supernatural skill . 
But he felt some interest in the present conduct of Coningsby . 
A Coningsby working for his bread was a novel incident for him . 
The misery of Oswald at the position of Coningsby , the silent sadness of Edith , his own conviction which assured him that he could do nothing wiser or better than take this young man to his heart , so ordained it that Mr. Millbank who was after all the creature of impulse , decided suddenly , and decided rightly . 
This is a very imperfect and crude intimation of what had occurred at Millbank and Hellingsley ; yet it conveys a faint sketch of the enchanting intelligence that Oswald conveyed to Coningsby during their rapid travel . 
When they arrived at Birmingham they found a messenger and a despatch informing Coningsby that at mid-day at Darlford he was at the head of the poll by an overwhelming majority , and that Mr. Rigby had resigned . 
There was Oswald 's election to talk of as well as Coningsby 's . 
Coningsby and Millbank , with that glance , a little inquisitive , even impertinent , if we must confess it , with which one greets a stranger when he emerges from a public conveyance , were lounging on the platform . 
Coningsby , who had dined , was greatly tempted to take off his hat and make him a bow , but he refrained . 
He was evidently used up ; a man without a resource ; the sight of Coningsby his last blow ; he had met his fate . 
`` My dear fellow , '' said Coningsby , `` I remember I wanted you to dine with my grandfather at Montem , and that fellow would not ask you . 
Here they were met by an anxious deputation , who received Coningsby as if he were a prophet , and ushered him into a car covered with satin and blue ribbons , and drawn by six beautiful grey horses caparisoned in his colours , and ridden by postillions , whose very whips were blue and white . 
Preceded and followed by thousands , with colours flying , trumpets sounding , and endless huzzas , flags and handkerchiefs waving from every window , and every balcony filled with dames and maidens bedecked with his colours , Coningsby was borne through enthusiastic Darlford like Paulus Emilius returning from Macedon . 
Uncovered , still in deep mourning , his fine figure and graceful bearing , and his intelligent brow , at once won every female heart . 
The singularity was that all were of the same opinion : everybody cheered him , every house was adorned with his colours . 
His triumphant return was no party question ; Magog Wrath and Bully Bluck walked together like lambs at the head of his procession . 
Their late member surrounded by his friends stood in the balcony which was fitted up with Coningsby 's colours and bore his name on the hangings in gigantic letters formed of dahlias . 
The flashing and inquiring eye of Coningsby caught the form of Edith , who was leaning on her father 's arm . 
The hustings were opposite the hotel , and here after a while Coningsby was carried , and stepping from his car , took up his post to address for the first time a public assembly . 
Anxious as the people were to hear him , it was long before their enthusiasm could subside into silence . 
He spoke ; his powerful and rich tones reached every ear . 
In five minutes ' time every one looked at his neighbour , and without speaking they agreed that there never was anything like this heard in Darlford before . 
He addressed them for a considerable time for he had a great deal to say ; not only to express his gratitude for the unprecedented manner in which he had become their representative and for the spirit in which they had greeted him ; but he had to offer them no niggard exposition of the views and opinions of the member whom they had so confidingly chosen without even a formal declaration of his sentiments . 
There were a great many present at that moment who though they had never seen Coningsby before , would willingly have then died for him . 
Coningsby had touched their hearts , for he had spoken from his own . 
His spirit had entirely magnetized them . 
Darlford believed in Coningsby : and a very good creed . 
And now Coningsby was conducted to the opposite hotel . 
He walked through the crowd . 
The progress was slow , as every one wished to shake hands with him . 
His friends , however , at last safely landed him . 
He sprang up the stairs : he was met by Mr. Millbank , who welcomed him with the greatest warmth , and offered his hearty congratulations . 
`` It is to you , dear sir , that I am indebted for all this , '' said Coningsby . 
After he had been presented by the late Member to the principal personages in the borough , Mr. Millbank said : `` I think we must now give Mr. Coningsby a little rest . 
Speaking thus , he led our hero a little away , and placing his arm in Coningsby 's , with great affection opened the door of an apartment . 
The marriage of Coningsby and Edith took place early in the autumn . 
The estate was to devolve to Coningsby after the death of Mr. Millbank who in the meantime made arrangements which permitted the newlymarried couple to reside at the Hall in a manner becoming its occupants . 
All these settlements , as Mr. Millbank assured Coningsby , were effected not only with the sanction , but at the express instance , of his son . 
An event however occurred not very long after the marriage of Coningsby which rendered this generous conduct of his father-in-law no longer necessary to his fortunes , though he never forgot its exercise . 
The marriage of Coningsby had greatly affected her , and from that day she seemed gradually to decline . 
Coningsby passed his next Christmas in his own hall with his beautiful and gifted wife by his side and surrounded by the friends of his heart and his youth . 
