The two prospered so well together that , when he died , some fifteen years after this period , and some five after his wife , he was enabled to leave to his eldest son , Ralph , three thousand pounds in cash , and to his youngest son , Nicholas , one thousand and the farm ; if indeed that can be called a farm , which , exclusive of house and paddock , is about the size of Russell Square , measuring from the street-doors of the houses . 
As for Nicholas , he lived a single man on the patrimonial estate until he grew tired of living alone , and then he took to wife the daughter of a neighbouring gentleman with a dower of one thousand pounds . 
This good lady bore him two children , a son and a daughter , and when the son was about nineteen , and the daughter fourteen , as near as we can guess -- impartial records of young ladies ' ages being , before the passing of the new act , nowhere preserved in the registries of this country -- Mr. Nickleby looked about him for the means of repairing his capital , now sadly reduced by this increase in his family and the expenses of their education . 
`` There 's Nicholas , '' pursued the lady , `` quite a young man -- it 's time he was in the way of doing something for himself ; and Kate too , poor girl , without a penny in the world . 
`` Oh , '' growled Ralph , with an ill-favoured frown , `` you are Nicholas , I suppose ? '' 
`` And brothers also , Sir , '' said Nicholas , with a glance of indignation . 
`` Yes , Sir , and puppies , and pug-dogs likewise , '' replied his uncle , taking a chair . 
`` Some people , I believe , have no hearts to break , '' observed Nicholas , quietly . 
`` Nicholas is very nearly nineteen , '' replied the widow . 
`` Not to live upon my mother , '' replied Nicholas , his heart swelling as he spoke . 
`` Whatever it be , '' said Nicholas , flushed with anger , `` I shall not look to you to make it more . '' 
`` Nicholas , my dear , recollect yourself , '' remonstrated Mrs. Nickleby . 
N2510002 `` Dear Nicholas , pray , '' urged the young lady . 
Mrs. Nickleby made no other reply than entreating Nicholas by a gesture to keep silent , and the uncle and nephew looked at each other for some seconds without speaking . 
It galled Ralph to the heart 's core , and he hated Nicholas from that hour . 
The mutual inspection was at length brought to a close by Ralph withdrawing his eyes with a great show of disdain , and calling Nicholas `` a boy . '' 
`` No , '' replied Nicholas , bluntly . 
`` Nicholas has not long completed such education as his poor father could give him , '' rejoined Mrs. Nickleby , `` and he was thinking of -- '' `` Of making something of him some day , '' said Ralph . 
This appeal set the widow upon thinking that perhaps she might have made a more successful venture with her one thousand pounds , and then she began to reflect what a comfortable sum it would have been just then ; which dismal thoughts made her tears flow faster , and in the excess of these griefs she -LRB- being a well-meaning woman enough , but rather weak withal -RRB- fell first to deploring her hard fate , and then to remarking , with many sobs , that to be sure she had been a slave to poor Nicholas , and had often told him she might have married better -LRB- as indeed she had , very often -RRB- , and that she never knew in his life-time how the money went , but that if he had confided in her they might all have been better off that day ; with other bitter recollections common to most married ladies either during their coverture , or afterwards , or at both periods . 
`` Of course I am , '' replied Nicholas haughtily . 
`` Nicholas , my dear , I wish you would say something . '' 
`` Yes , mother , yes , '' said Nicholas , who had hitherto remained silent and absorbed in thought . 
`` Then , '' said Nicholas , starting gaily up , and wringing his uncle 's hand , `` I am ready to do anything you wish me . 
`` To be sure , I see it all , '' said poor Nicholas , delighted with a thousand visionary ideas , that his good spirits and his inexperience were conjuring up before him . 
cried Nicholas with enthusiasm . 
Kate will be a beautiful woman , and I so proud to hear them say so , and mother so happy to be with us once again , and all these sad times forgotten , and -- '' The picture was too bright a one to bear , and Nicholas , fairly overpowered by it , smiled faintly , and burst into tears . 
This simple family , born and bred in retirement , and wholly unacquainted with what is called the world -- a conventional phrase which , being interpreted , signifieth all the rascals in it -- mingled their tears together at the thought of their first separation ; and , this first gush of feeling over , were proceeding to dilate with all the buoyancy of untried hope on the bright prospects before them , when Mr. Ralph Nickleby suggested , that if they lost time , some more fortunate candidate might deprive Nicholas of the stepping-stone to fortune which the advertisement pointed out , and so undermine all their air-built castles . 
This timely reminder effectually stopped the conversation , and Nicholas having carefully copied the address of Mr. Squeers , the uncle and nephew issued forth together in quest of that accomplished gentleman ; Nicholas firmly persuading himself that he had done his relative great injustice in disliking him at first sight , and Mrs. Nickleby being at some pains to inform her daughter that she was sure he was a much more kindly disposed person than he seemed , which Miss Nickleby dutifully remarked he might very easily be . 
`` Only a matter of business , Sir , '' said Ralph Nickleby , presenting himself , closely followed by Nicholas . 
`` This is my nephew , Sir , Mr. Nicholas Nickleby . '' 
Nicholas bowed : said he was very well , and seemed very much astonished at the outward appearance of the proprietor of Dotheboys Hall , as indeed he was . 
`` P , '' suggested Nicholas , good-naturedly . 
`` My nephew Nicholas , hot from school , with everything he learnt there , fermenting in his head , and nothing fermenting in his pocket , is just the man you want . '' 
`` I am afraid , '' said Squeers perplexed with such an application from a youth of Nicholas 's figure , `` I am afraid the young man wo n't suit me . '' 
`` I fear , Sir , '' said Nicholas , addressing Mr. Squeers , `` that you object to my youth , and my not being a Master of Arts ? '' 
`` I do , of course , '' said Nicholas eagerly . 
The two words were had apart , and in a couple of minutes Mr. Wackford Squeers announced that Mr. Nicholas Nickleby was from that moment thoroughly nominated to , and installed in , the office of first assistant-master at Dotheboys Hall . 
Nicholas , overjoyed at his success , shook his uncle 's hand warmly , and could have worshipped Squeers upon the spot . 
`` He is an odd-looking man , '' thought Nicholas . 
`` Certainly , Sir , '' said Nicholas . 
Nicholas felt his unexpected kindness so much , that he could scarcely find words to thank him ; indeed , he had not found half enough , when they took leave of the schoolmaster and emerged from the Saracen 's Head gateway . 
`` Thank you , Sir , '' replied Nicholas ; `` I never shall forget this kindness . '' 
`` Take care you do n't , '' replied his uncle . 
`` Certainly , '' said Nicholas , `` I can easily inquire . '' 
Nicholas cheerfully undertook the errand , and bidding his worthy uncle an affectionate farewell , which that warm-hearted old gentleman acknowledged by a growl , hastened away to execute his commission . 
He found Golden Square in due course ; and Mr. Noggs , who had stepped out for a minute or so to the public-house , was opening the door with a latch-key as he reached the steps . 
`` Papers from my uncle , '' replied Nicholas ; `` and you 're to have the goodness to wait till he comes home , if you please . '' 
`` Mr. Nickleby , '' said Nicholas in explanation . 
Without another word he led Nicholas into the passage , and thence into the official pantry at the end of it , where he thrust him into a chair , and mounting upon his high stool , sat with his arms hanging straight down by his sides , gazing fixedly upon him as from a tower of observation . 
said Nicholas , laying the parcel on a table beside him . 
Newman said nothing , but folding his arms , and thrusting his head forward so as to obtain a nearer view of Nicholas 's face , scanned his features closely . 
`` No answer , '' said Nicholas , speaking very loud , under the impression that Newman Noggs was deaf . 
This was such a very singular proceeding on the part of an utter stranger , and his appearance was so extremely peculiar , that Nicholas , who had a sufficiently keen sense of the ridiculous , could not refrain from breaking into a smile as he inquired whether Mr. Noggs had any commands for him . 
Noggs shook his head and sighed ; upon which Nicholas rose , and remarking that he required no rest , bade him good morning . 
Nicholas had not the least objection in the world , but on the contrary was rather pleased to have an opportunity of talking on the subject which occupied his thoughts ; so he sat down again , and -LRB- his sanguine imagination warming as he spoke -RRB- entered into a fervent and glowing description of all the honours and advantages to be derived from his appointment at that seat of learning , Dotheboys Hall . 
said Nicholas , suddenly breaking off , as his companion , after throwing himself into a variety of uncouth attitudes , thrust his hands under the stool and cracked his finger-joints as if he were snapping all the bones in his hands . 
At first Nicholas thought the mysterious man was in a fit , but on further consideration decided that he was in liquor , under which circumstances he deemed it prudent to make off at once . 
He looked back when he had got the street-door open . 
If tears dropped into a trunk were charms to preserve its owner from sorrow and misfortune , Nicholas Nickleby would have commenced his expedition under most happy auspices . 
There was so much to be done , and so little time to do it in , so many kind words to be spoken , and such bitter pain in the hearts in which they rose to impede their utterance , that the little preparations for his journey were made mournfully indeed . 
A hundred things which the anxious care of his mother and sister deemed indispensable for his comfort , Nicholas insisted on leaving behind , as they might prove of some after use , or might be convertible into money if occasion required . 
A hundred affectionate contests on such points as these , took place on the sad night which preceded his departure : and , as the termination of every angerless dispute brought them nearer and nearer to the close of their slight preparations , Kate grew busier and busier , and wept more silently . 
The box was packed at last , and then there came supper , with some little delicacy provided for the occasion , and as a set-off against the expense of which , Kate and her mother had feigned to dine when Nicholas was out . 
Nicholas slept well till six next morning ; dreamed of home , or of what was home once -- no matter which , for things that are changed or gone will come back as they used to be , thank God , in sleep -- and rose quite brisk and gay . 
`` It is I , Miss La Creevy , '' said Nicholas , putting down the box and looking in . 
`` So are you , '' replied Nicholas . 
inquired Nicholas , smiling . 
said Nicholas . 
`` I do , indeed , '' replied Nicholas . 
As Miss La Creevy spoke , she held up an ivory countenance intersected with very perceptible sky-blue veins , and regarded it with so much complacency , that Nicholas quite envied her . 
`` If you ever have an opportunity of showing Kate some little kindness , '' said Nicholas , presenting his hand , `` I think you will . '' 
It was very little that Nicholas knew of the world , but he guessed enough about its ways to think , that if he gave Miss La Creevy one little kiss , perhaps she might not be the less kindly disposed towards those he was leaving behind . 
So he gave her three or four with a kind of jocose gallantry , and Miss La Creevy evinced no greater symptoms of displeasure then declaring , as she adjusted her yellow turban , that she had never heard of such a thing , and could n't have believed it possible . 
Having terminated the unexpected interview in this satisfactory manner , Nicholas hastily withdrew himself from the house . 
By the time he had found a man to carry his box it was only seven o'clock , so he walked slowly on , a little in advance of the porter , and very probably with not half as light a heart in his breast as the man had , although he had no waistcoat to cover it with , and had evidently , from the appearance of his other garments , been spending the night in a stable , and taking his breakfast at a pump . 
Regarding with no small curiosity and interest all the busy preparations for the coming day which every street and almost every house displayed ; and thinking now and then that it seemed rather hard that so many people of all ranks and stations could earn a livelihood in London , and that he should be compelled to journey so far in search of one , Nicholas speedily arrived at the Saracen 's Head , Snow Hill . 
Having dismissed his attendant , and seen the box safely deposited in the coach-office , he looked into the coffee-room in search of Mr. Squeers . 
As he uttered this moral precept , Mr. Squeers took a large bite out of the cold beef , and recognised Nicholas . 
Nicholas did not see that anybody was breakfasting except Mr. Squeers ; but he bowed with all becoming reverence , and looked as cheerful as he could . 
`` Very shocking , Sir , '' said Nicholas : `` When I say number one , '' pursued Mr. Squeers , putting the mug before the children , `` the boy on the left hand nearest the window may take a drink ; and when I say number two the boy next him will go in , and so till we come to number five , which is the last boy . 
This is the way we inculcate strength of mind , Mr. Nickleby , '' said the schoolmaster , turning to Nicholas , and speaking with his mouth very full of beef and toast . 
Nicholas murmured something -- he knew not what -- in reply , and the little boys dividing their gaze between the mug , the bread and butter -LRB- which had by this time arrived -RRB- , and every morsel which Mr. Squeers took into his mouth , remained with strained eyes in torments of expectation . 
Nicholas was considerably startled by these very economical arrangements , but he had no time to reflect upon them , for the little boys had to be got up to the top of the coach , and their boxes had to be brought out and put in , and Mr. Squeers 's luggage was to be seen carefully deposited in the boot , and all these offices were in his department . 
cried Nicholas , looking hastily round . 
`` Dear Nicholas , '' whispered Kate , touching her brother 's arm `` who is that vulgar man ? '' 
`` Mr. Squeers , here 's my niece , Nicholas 's sister ? '' 
`` My dear Nicholas , '' said the young lady , `` who is this man ? 
`` I hardly know , Kate , '' replied Nicholas , pressing his sister 's hand . 
`` Is my employer , or master , or whatever the proper name may be , '' replied Nicholas quickly , `` and I was an ass to take his coarseness ill . 
With these hasty adieux , Nicholas mounted nimbly to his seat , and waved his hand as gallantly as if his heart went with it . 
At this moment , when the coachman and guard were comparing notes for the last time before starting , on the subject of the way-bill : when porters were screwing out the last reluctant sixpences , itinerant newsman making the last offer of a morning paper , and the horses giving the last impatient rattle to their harness , Nicholas felt somebody pulling softly at his leg . 
He looked down , and there stood Newman Noggs , who pushed up into his hand a dirty letter . 
inquired Nicholas . 
cried Nicholas . 
Nicholas cried stop , again , but Newman Noggs was gone . 
The little boys ' legs being too short to admit of their feet resting upon anything as they sat , and the little boys ' bodies being consequently in imminent hazard of being jerked off the coach , Nicholas had enough to do to hold them on : and between the manual exertion and the mental anxiety attendant upon this task , he was not a little relieved when the coach stopped at the Peacock at Islington . 
`` Upon my word , '' said the gentleman , glancing at Nicholas with a half smile , and a more than half expression of surprise , `` these are advantages indeed . '' 
Nicholas and the good-tempered man found so many things to talk about , that between conversing together , and cheering up the boys , the time passed with them as rapidly as it could , under such adverse circumstances . 
At Eton Slocomb there was a good coach dinner , of which the box , the four front outsides , the one inside , Nicholas , the good-tempered man , and Mr. Squeers , partook ; while the five little boys were put to thaw by the fire , and regaled with sandwiches . 
They were little more than a stage out of Grantham , or about half way between it and Newark , when Nicholas , who had been asleep for a short time , was suddenly roused by a violent jerk which nearly threw him from his seat . 
Grasping the rail , he found that the coach had sunk greatly on one side , though it was still dragged forward by the horses ; and while -- confused by their plunging and the loud screams of the lady inside -- he hesitated for an instant whether to jump off or not , the vehicle turned easily over , and relieved him from all further uncertainty by flinging him into the road . 
demanded Nicholas , looking sleepily up . 
cried Nicholas , staggering to his feet , `` I 'm ready . 
`` I dare say I can , '' replied Nicholas . 
As the man spoke he proceeded to wrench open the uppermost door of the coach , while Nicholas seizing the horn , awoke the echoes far and wide with one of the most extraordinary performances on that instrument ever heard by mortal cars . 
This remark called up a discourse relative to the promptitude Nicholas had displayed , and he was overwhelmed with compliments and commendations . 
Expressing himself to this effect , Mr. Squeers , who lost no opportunity of advertising gratuitously , placed his hands upon his knees and looked at the pupils with as much benignity as he could possibly affect , while Nicholas , blushing with shame , handed round the cards as directed . 
Nicholas fell asleep towards morning , and when he awoke found , with great regret , that during his nap both the Baron of Grogzwig and the grey-haired gentleman had got down and were gone . 
Mr. Squeers being safely landed , left Nicholas and the boys standing with the luggage in the road , to amuse themselves by looking at the coach as it changed horses , while he ran into the tavern and went through the leg-stretching process at the bar . 
Nicholas obeyed , and Mr. Squeers with some difficulty inducing the pony to obey also , they started off , leaving the cart-load of infant misery to follow at leisure . 
asked Nicholas . 
Nicholas coughed , as if he would like to know why . 
said Nicholas , whom this piece of intelligence much astonished . 
`` I believe not , Sir , '' rejoined Nicholas . 
While the schoolmaster was uttering these and other impatient cries , Nicholas had time to observe that the school was a long cold-looking house , one story high , with a few straggling outbuildings behind , and a barn and stable adjoining . 
By this time Mr. Squeers had dismounted ; and after ordering the boy to see to the pony , and to take care that he had n't any more corn that night , he told Nicholas to wait at the front door a minute while he went round and let him in . 
A host of unpleasant misgivings , which had been crowding upon Nicholas during the whole journey , thronged into his mind with redoubled force when he was left alone . 
His great distance from home and the impossibility of reaching it , except on foot , should he feel ever so anxious to return , presented itself to him in most alarming colours ; and as he looked up at the dreary house and dark windows , and upon the wild country round covered with snow , he felt a depression of heart and spirit which he had never experienced before . 
replied Nicholas . 
Nicholas sighed and hurried in . 
Pending these little endearments , Nicholas had stood awkwardly enough in the middle of the room , not very well knowing whether he was expected to retire into the passage , or to remain where he was He was now relieved from his perplexity by Mr. Squeers . 
`` Oh , '' replied Mrs. Squeers , nodding her head at Nicholas , and eyeing him coldly from top to toe . 
`` No , indeed , '' replied Nicholas , `` I am not particular . '' 
And as the lady 's humour was considered to lie chiefly in retort , Mr. Squeers laughed heartily , and seemed to expect that Nicholas should do the same . 
The look was a very painful one , and went to Nicholas 's heart at once , for it told a long and very sad history . 
It induced him to consider the boy more attentively , and he was surprised to observe the extraordinary mixture of garments which formed his dress . 
Although he could not have been less than eighteen or nineteen years old , and was tall for that age , he wore a skeleton suit , such as is usually put upon very little boys , and which , though most absurdly short in the arms and legs , was quite wide enough for his attenuated frame . 
In order that the lower part of his legs might be in perfect keeping with this singular dress , he had a very large pair of boots originally made for tops , which might have been once worn by some stout farmer , but were now too patched and tattered for a beggar . 
He was lame ; and as he feigned to be busy in arranging the table , glanced at the letters with a look so keen , and yet so dispirited and hopeless , that Nicholas could hardly bear to watch him . 
Nicholas drew up his chair , but his appetite was effectually taken away . 
`` I 'll take a little of the pie , if you please , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` Whatever you please , '' replied Nicholas abstractedly ; `` it 's all the same to me . '' 
Mrs. Squeers looked vastly gracious on receiving this reply ; and nodding to Squeers , as much as to say that she was glad to find the young man knew his station , assisted Nicholas to a slice of meat with her own fair hands . 
inquired the lady , winking and frowning to give him to understand that the question propounded was , whether Nicholas should have ale , and not whether he -LRB- Squeers -RRB- would take any . 
So Nicholas had a glassful , and being occupied with his own reflections , drank it in happy innocence of all the foregone proceedings . 
Mr. Squeers treated himself to a stiff tumbler of brandy and water , made on the liberal half and half principle , allowing for the dissolution of the sugar ; and his amiable helpmate mixed Nicholas the ghost of a small glassfull of the same compound . 
This done , Mr. and Mrs. Squeers drew close up to the fire , and sitting with their feet on the fender talked confidentially in whispers ; while Nicholas , taking up the tutor 's assistant , read the interesting legends in the miscellaneous questions , and all the figures into the bargain , with as much thought or consciousness of what he was doing , as if he had been in a magnetic slumber . 
At length Mr. Squeers yawned fearfully , and opined that it was high time to go to bed ; upon which signal Mrs. Squeers and the girl dragged in a small straw mattress and a couple of blankets , and arranged them into a couch for Nicholas . 
thought Nicholas , `` I should think he was . '' 
Seven o'clock in the morning , mind '' `` I shall be ready , Sir , '' replied Nicholas . 
Nicholas opened his eyes , but not his mouth ; and Squeers was again going away , when he once more turned back . 
Mr. Squeers then nudged Mrs. Squeers to bring away the brandy bottle , lest Nicholas should help himself in the night ; and the lady having seized it with great precipitation , they retired together . 
Nicholas being left alone , took half a dozen turns up and down the room in a condition of much agitation and excitement , but growing gradually calmer , sat himself down in a chair and mentally resolved that , come what come might , he would endeavour for a time to bear whatever wretchedness might be in store for him , and that remembering the helplessness of his mother and sister , he would give his uncle no plea for deserting them in their need . 
He grew less desponding , and -- so sanguine and buoyant is youth -- even hoped that affairs at Dotheboys Hall might yet prove better than they promised . 
He was preparing for bed with something like renewed cheerfulness , when a sealed letter fell from his coat pocket . 
In the hurry of leaving London it had escaped his attention and had not occurred to him since , but it at once brought back to him the recollection of the mysterious behaviour of Newman Noggs . 
said Nicholas ; `` what an extraordinary hand ! '' 
After great difficulty and much puzzling , he contrived to read as follows : -- `` My dear young Man . 
It may be a very undignified circumstance to record , but after he had folded this letter and placed it in his pocket-book , Nicholas Nickleby 's eyes were dimmed with a moisture that might have been taken for tears . 
Perhaps it is even a sweetener of dreams , for those which hovered over the rough couch of Nicholas , and whispered their airy nothings in his ear , were of an agreeable and happy kind . 
He was making his fortune very fast indeed , when the faint glimmer of an expiring candle shone before his eyes , and a voice he had no difficulty in recognising as part and parcel of Mr. Squeers , admonished him that it was time to rise . 
asked Nicholas , sitting up in bed . 
Nicholas needed no further admonition , but `` tumbled up '' at once , and proceeded to dress himself by the light of the taper which Mr. Squeers carried in his hand . 
said Nicholas , not much interested in the intelligence `` Yes , '' replied Squeers . 
exclaimed Nicholas . 
Offering no further observation , Nicholas huddled on his clothes , and Squeers meanwhile opened the shutters and blew the candle out , when the voice of his amiable consort was heard in the passage , demanding admittance . 
A few words passed between them while they were thus engaged , but as their voices were partially stifled by the cupboard all that Nicholas could distinguish was , that Mr. Squeers said what Mrs. Squeers had said was injudicious , and that Mrs. Squeers said what Mr. Squeers said was `` stuff . '' 
observed Nicholas . 
Nicholas sighed involuntarily at the thought of the agreeable domestic prospect thus opened to him ; but Squeers was , fortunately , too much occupied with his own reflections to perceive it . 
`` I should think they would not , Sir , '' answered Nicholas . 
Nicholas assisted his master to put on an old fustian shooting-jacket , which he took down from a peg in the passage ; and Squeers arming himself with his cane , led the way across a yard to a door in the rear of the house . 
It was such a crowded scene , and there were so many objects to attract attention , that at first Nicholas stared about him , really without seeing anything at all . 
How the last faint traces of hope , the remotest glimmering of any good to be derived from his efforts in this den , faded from the mind of Nicholas as he looked in dismay around ! 
And yet this scene , painful as it was , had its grotesque features , which , in a less interested observer than Nicholas , might have provoked a smile . 
Nicholas distended his stomach with a bowl of porridge , for much the same reason which induces some savages to swallow earth -- lest they should be inconveniently hungry when there is nothing to eat . 
Having further disposed of a slice of bread and butter , allotted to him in virtue of his office , he sat himself down to wait for school-time . 
He could not but observe how silent and sad the boys all seemed to be . 
`` This is the first class in English spelling and philosophy , Nickleby , '' said Squeers , beckoning Nicholas to stand beside him . 
`` It 's a very useful one , at any rate , '' answered Nicholas significantly . 
`` I believe there is no doubt of that , Sir , '' answered Nicholas . 
said Nicholas abstractedly . 
`` As you 're perfect in that , '' resumed Squeers , turning to the boy , `` go and look after my horse , and rub him down well , or I 'll rub you down . 
So saying he dismissed the first class to their experiments in practical philosophy , and eyed Nicholas with a look half cunning and half doubtful , as if he were not altogether certain what he might think of him by this time . 
`` That 's the way we do it , Nickleby , '' he said , after a long pause . 
Nicholas shrugged his shoulders in a manner that was scarcely perceptible , and said he saw it was . 
At one o'clock , the boys having previously had their appetites thoroughly taken away by stir-about and potatoes , sat down in the kitchen to some hard salt beef , of which Nicholas was graciously permitted to take his portion to his own solitary desk , and to eat there in peace . 
This business despatched , a few slovenly lessons were performed , and Squeers retired to his fireside , leaving Nicholas to take care of the boys in the school-room , which was very cold , and where a meal of bread and cheese was served out shortly after dark . 
There was a small stove at that corner of the room which was nearest to the master 's desk , and by it Nicholas sat down , so depressed and self-degraded by the consciousness of his position , that if death could have come upon him at that time he would have been almost happy to meet it . 
The cruelty of which he had been an unwilling witness , the coarse and ruffianly behaviour of Squeers even in his best moods , the filthy place , the sights and sounds about him , all contributed to this state of feeling ; but when he recollected that being there as an assistant , he actually seemed -- no matter what unhappy train of circumstances had led him to that pass -- to be the aider and abettor of a system which filled him with honest disgust and indignation , he loathed himself , and felt for the moment as though the mere consciousness of his present situation must , through all time to come , prevent his raising his head in society again . 
He had paused to steal a look at Nicholas , and when he saw that he was observed , shrunk back as if expecting a blow . 
`` You need not fear me , '' said Nicholas kindly . 
There was such an obvious fear of giving offence in his manner , and he was such a timid , broken-spirited creature , that Nicholas could not help exclaiming , `` Poor fellow ! '' 
If he had struck the drudge , he would have slunk away without a word . 
But now he burst into tears . 
he cried , covering his face with his cracked and horny hands . 
said Nicholas , laying his hand upon his shoulder . 
inquired Nicholas , wishing to rouse the poor half-witted creature to reason . 
`` My friends , '' he replied , `` myself -- my -- oh ! 
`` There is always hope , '' said Nicholas ; he knew not what to say . 
`` I was not here you know , '' said Nicholas gently ; `` but what on him ? '' 
`` Why , '' replied the youth , drawing closer to his questioner 's side , `` I was with him at night , and when it was all silent he cried no more for friends he wished to come and sit with him , but began to see faces round his bed that came from home ; he said they smiled , and talked to him , and died at last lifting his head to kiss them . 
`` Yes , yes , '' rejoined Nicholas . 
said his companion , shivering . 
It was with a heavy heart that Nicholas soon afterwards -- no , not retired ; there was no retirement there -- followed -- to his dirty and crowded dormitory . 
When Mr. Squeers left the school-room for the night , he betook himself , as has been before remarked , to his own fire-side , which was situated -- not in the room in which Nicholas had supped on the night of his arrival , but in a smaller apartment in the rear of the premises , where his lady wife , his amiable son , and accomplished daughter , were in the full enjoyment of each other 's society : Mrs. Squeers being engaged in the matronly pursuit of stocking-darning , and the young lady and gentleman occupied in the adjustment of some youthful differences by means of a pugilistic contest across the table , which , on the approach of their honoured parent , subsided into a noiseless exchange of kicks beneath it . 
To this circumstance may be referred her having heard nothing of Nicholas , until Mr. Squeers himself now made him the subject of conversation . 
Mrs. Squeers when excited was accustomed to use strong language , and moreover to make use of a plurality of epithets , some of which were of a figurative kind , as the word peacock , and furthermore the allusion to Nicholas 's nose , which was not intended to be taken in its literal sense , but rather to bear a latitude of construction according to the fancy of the hearers . 
`` He 's a nasty stuck-up monkey , that 's what I consider him , '' said Mrs. Squeers , reverting to Nicholas . 
Miss Fanny Squeers carefully treasured up this and much more conversation on the same subject until she retired for the night , when she questioned the hungry servant minutely regarding the outward appearance and demeanour of Nicholas ; to which queries the girl returned such enthusiastic replies , coupled with so many laudatory remarks touching his beautiful dark eyes , and his sweet smile , and his straight legs -- upon which last-named articles she laid particular stress , the general run of legs at Dotheboys Hall being crooked -- that Miss Squeers was not long in arriving at the conclusion that the new usher must be a very remarkable person , or as she herself significantly phrased it , `` something quite out of the common . '' 
And so Miss Squeers made up her mind that she would take a personal observation of Nicholas the very next day . 
In pursuance of this design , the young lady watched the opportunity of her mother being engaged and her father absent , and went accidentally into the school-room to get a pen mended , where , seeing nobody but Nicholas presiding over the boys , she blushed very deeply , and exhibited great confusion . 
`` Mr. Squeers is out , '' said Nicholas , by no means overcome by the apparition , unexpected though it was . 
`` He said about an hour , '' replied Nicholas -- politely of course , but without any indication of being stricken to the heart by Miss Squeers 's charms . 
If I had n't thought my father was here , I would n't upon any account have -- it is very provoking -- must look so very strange , '' murmured Miss Squeers , blushing once more , and glancing from the pen in her hand , to Nicholas at his desk , and back again . 
`` If that is all you want , '' said Nicholas , pointing to the pen , and smiling , in spite of himself , at the affected embarrassment of the schoolmaster 's daughter , `` perhaps I can supply his place . '' 
Miss Squeers glanced at the door as if dubious of the propriety of advancing any nearer to an utter stranger , then round the school-room as though in some measure reassured by the presence of forty boys , and finally sidled up to Nicholas , and delivered the pen into his hand with a most winning mixture of reserve and condescension . 
inquired Nicholas , smiling to prevent himself from laughing outright . 
asked Nicholas . 
With which words Miss Squeers sighed ; it might be to give Nicholas to understand that her heart was soft , and that the pen was wanted to match . 
Upon these instructions Nicholas made the pen ; when he gave it to Miss Squeers , Miss Squeers dropped it , and when he stooped to pick it up , Miss Squeers stooped also , and they knocked their heads together , whereat five-and-twenty little boys laughed aloud , being positively for the first and only time that half year . 
`` Very awkward of me , '' said Nicholas , opening the door for the young lady 's retreat . 
`` Good bye , '' said Nicholas . 
`` Not the least trouble in the world , '' replied Nicholas , closing the school-room door . 
In fact , Miss Squeers was in love with Nicholas Nickleby . 
To account for the rapidity with which this young lady had conceived a passion for Nicholas , it may be necessary to state that the friend from whom she had so recently returned was a miller 's daughter of only eighteen , who had contracted herself unto the son of a small cornfactor resident in the nearest market town . 
The little interview with Nicholas had no sooner passed as above described , however , than Miss Squeers , putting on her bonnet , made her way with great precipitation to her friend 's house , and upon a solemn renewal of divers old vows of secrecy , revealed how that she was -- not exactly engaged , but going to be -- to a gentleman 's son -- -LRB- none of your corn-factors , but a gentleman 's son of high descent -RRB- -- who had come down as teacher to Dotheboys Hall under most mysterious and remarkable circumstances -- indeed , as Miss Squeers more than once hinted she had good reason to believe -- induced by the fame of her many charms to seek her out , and woo and win her . 
Miss Squeers , having slight misgivings on the subject , was by no means ill pleased to be confirmed by a competent authority ; and discovering , on further conversation and comparison of notes , a great many points of resemblance between the behaviour of Nicholas and that of the corn-factor , grew so exceedingly confidential , that she intrusted her friend with a vast number of things Nicholas had not said , which were all so very complimentary as to be quite conclusive . 
As the party was not in his way therefore , but rather afforded a means of compromise with Miss Squeers , he readily yielded his full assent thereunto , and willingly communicated to Nicholas that he was expected to take his tea in the parlour that evening at five o'clock . 
To be sure Miss Squeers was in a desperate flutter as the time approached , and to be sure she was dressed out to the best advantage : with her hair -- it had more than a tinge of red , and she wore it in a crop -- curled in five distinct rows up to the very top of her head , and arranged dexterously over the doubtful eye ; to say nothing of the blue sash which floated down her back , or the worked apron , or the long gloves , or the green gauze scarf worn over one shoulder and under the other , or any of the numerous devices which were to be as so many arrows to the heart of Nicholas . 
And in walked Nicholas . 
`` Good evening , '' said that young gentleman , all unconscious of his conquest . 
Nicholas opened his eyes at this , but he turned the matter off very coolly -- not caring particularly about any thing just then -- and went through the ceremony of introduction to the miller 's daughter with so much grace , that that young lady was lost in admiration . 
It was matter of equal moment to Nicholas whether they were waiting for one gentleman or twenty , so he received the intelligence with perfect unconcern ; and being out of spirits , and not seeing any especial reason why he should make himself agreeable , looked out of the window and sighed involuntarily . 
As luck would have it , Miss Squeers 's friend was of a playful turn , and hearing Nicholas sigh , she took it into her head to rally the lovers on their lowness of spirits . 
`` 'Til da , '' said Miss Squeers , colouring up to the top row of curls , `` I am ashamed of you ; '' and here the two friends burst into a variety of giggles , and glanced from time to time over the tops of their pocket-handkerchiefs at Nicholas , who , from a state of unmixed astonishment , gradually fell into one of irrepressible laughter -- occasioned partly by the bare notion of his being in love with Miss Squeers , and partly by the preposterous appearance and behaviour of the two girls ; the two causes of merriment taken together , struck him as being so keenly ridiculous , that despite his miserable condition , he laughed till he was thoroughly exhausted . 
`` Well , '' though Nicholas , `` as I am here , and seem expected for some reason or other to be amiable , it 's of no use looking like a goose . 
We blush to tell it , but his youthful spirits and vivacity getting for a time the better of his sad thoughts , he no sooner formed this resolution than he saluted Miss Squeers and the friend with great gallantry , and drawing a chair to the tea-table , began to make himself more at home than in all probability an usher has ever done in his employer 's house since ushers were first invented . 
`` Yours to command , Sir , '' replied Nicholas , making fearful ravages on the bread and butter . 
It was quite a sight to behold how he and Nicholas emptied the plate between them . 
`` Ye weant get bread and butther ev'ry neight I expect , mun , '' said Mr. Browdie , after he had sat staring at Nicholas a long time over the empty plate . 
Nicholas bit his lip and coloured , but affected not to hear the remark . 
`` You are facetious , Sir , '' said Nicholas , scornfully . 
`` I do n't know whether your perceptions are quite keen enough , Mr. Browdie , to enable you to understand that your remarks are very offensive , '' said Nicholas in a towering passion , `` but if they are , have the goodness to -- '' `` If you say another word , John , '' shrieked Miss Price , stopping her admirer 's mouth as he was about to interrupt , `` only half a word , I 'll never forgive you , or speak to you again . '' 
It now became Miss Squeers 's turn to intercede with Nicholas , which she did with many symptoms of alarm and horror ; the effect of the double intercession was that he and John Browdie shook hands across the table with much gravity , and such was the imposing nature of the ceremonial , that Miss Squeers was overcome and shed tears . 
`` None at all , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` Not on any account , '' rejoined Nicholas , quite alarmed at the proposition . 
`` Well , '' said Miss Price , beckoning him aside , and speaking with some degree of contempt -- `` you are a one to keep company . '' 
said Nicholas ; `` I am not one to keep company at all -- here at all events . 
cried Nicholas ; `` what do you suppose ? 
inquired Nicholas . 
`` Come , do n't call me a dear girl , '' said Miss Price -- smiling a little though , for she was pretty , and a coquette too in her small way , and Nicholas was good-looking , and she supposed him the property of somebody else , which were all reasons why she should be gratified to think she had made an impression on him , `` or Fanny will be saying it 's my fault . 
This was wholly unintelligible to Nicholas , who had no other distinct impression on his mind at the moment , than that Miss Squeers was an ordinary-looking girl , and her friend Miss Price a pretty one ; but he had not time to enlighten himself by reflection , for the hearth being by this time swept up , and the candle snuffed , they sat down to play speculation . 
`` There are only four of us , 'Til da , '' said Miss Squeers , looking slyly at Nicholas ; `` so we had better go partners , two against two . '' 
`` With all the pleasure in life , '' replied Nicholas . 
And so saying , quite unconscious of his heinous offence , he amalgamated into one common heap those portions of a Dotheboys Hall card of terms , which represented his own counters , and those allotted to Miss Price , respectively . 
The deal fell to Nicholas , and the hand prospered . 
`` We intend to win every thing , '' said he . 
`` Thank you for reminding her , '' said Nicholas . 
The Yorkshireman flattened his nose once or twice with his clenched fist , as if to keep his hand in , till he had an opportunity of exercising it upon the features of some other gentleman ; and Miss Squeers tossed her head with such indignation , that the gust of wind raised by the multitudinous curls in motion , nearly blew the candle out . 
`` Not if your wish is gratified , '' replied Nicholas . 
To see how Miss Squeers tossed her head , and the corn-factor flattened his nose , while this conversation was carrying on ! 
It would have been worth a small annuity to have beheld that ; let alone Miss Price 's evident joy at making them jealous , and Nicholas Nickleby 's happy unconsciousness of making anybody uncomfortable . 
`` We have all the talking to ourselves , it seems , '' said Nicholas , looking good-humouredly round the table as he took up the cards for a fresh deal . 
`` Nay , '' said Nicholas , `` we do it in default of having anybody else to talk to . '' 
Miss Squeers had brought it about by aspiring to the high state and cöndition of being matrimonially engaged without good grounds for so doing ; Miss Price had brought it about by indulging in three motives of action ; first , a desire to punish her friend for laying claim to a rivalship in dignity , having no good title ; secondly , the gratification of her own vanity in receiving the compliments of a smart young man ; and thirdly , a wish to convince the corn-factor of the great danger he ran , in deferring the celebration of their expected nuptials : while Nicholas had brought it about by half an hour 's gaiety and thoughtlessness , and a very sincere desire to avoid the imputation of inclining at all to Miss Squeers . 
With this parting benediction Miss Price swept from the room , followed by the huge Yorkshireman , who exchanged with Nicholas at parting , that peculiarly expressive scowl with which the cut-and-thrust counts in melo-dramatic performances inform each other they will meet again , They were no sooner gone than Miss Squeers fulfilled the prediction of her quondam friend by giving vent to a most copious burst of tears . 
Nicholas stood looking on for a few seconds , rather doubtful what to do , but feeling uncertain whether the fit would end in his being embraced or scratched , and considering that either infliction would be equally agreeable , he walked off very quietly while Miss Squeers was moaning in her pocket-handkerchief . 
`` This is one consequence , '' thought Nicholas , when he had groped his way to the dark sleeping-room , `` of my cursed readiness to adapt myself to any society into which chance carries me . 
He listened for a few minutes , but all was quiet . 
`` I was gald , '' he murmured , `` to grasp at any relief from the sight of this dreadful place , or the presence of its vile master . 
So saying , he felt his way among the throng of weary-hearted sleepers , and crept into his poor bed . 
On the second morning after the departure of Nicholas for Yorkshire , Kate Nickleby sat in a very faded chair raised upon a very dusty throne in Miss La Creevy 's room , giving that lady a sitting for the portrait upon which she was engaged ; and towards the full perfection of which , Miss La Creevy had had the street-door case brought up stairs , in order that she might be the better able to infuse into the counterfeit countenance of Miss Nickleby a bright salmon flesh-tint which she had originally hit upon while executing the miniature of a young officer therein contained , and which bright salmon flesh-tint was considered by Miss La Creevy 's chief friends and patrons , to be quite a novelty in art : as indeed it was . 
Whether we shall ever taste happiness again , depends upon the fortunes of my dear brother ; but if he will do this , and Nicholas only tells us that he is well and cheerful , I shall be contented . '' 
` Depend upon it , ' I said to Kate only yesterday morning at breakfast , ` that after your uncle has provided in that most ready manner for Nicholas , he will not leave us until he has done at least the same for you . ' 
Kate , my dear , put that down in the next letter to Nicholas , or remind me to do it if I write . '' 
`` What can Mr. Nickleby think when he hears you ? '' 
`` I know his amiable nature , and yours , -- mere little remarks that give a zest to your daily intercourse ; lovers ' quarrels that add sweetness to those domestic joys which promise to last so long -- that 's all ; that 's all . '' 
`` I had some idea , '' he said , `` of providing for your mother in a pleasant part of the country -- -LRB- he had a presentation to some alms-houses on the borders of Cornwall , which had occurred to him more than once -RRB- -- but as you want to be together , I must do something else for her . 
The prospect of the friend 's being married so soon was the gall , and the certainty of her not entertaining serious designs upon Nicholas was the honey . 
`` He is nothing to me , '' interrupted Miss Squeers , with hysterical symptoms . 
`` I despise him too much ! '' 
`` Confess , Fanny ; do n't you like him now ? '' 
`` How much better to take him into favour again , than to hurt yourself by going on in that way ; would n't it be much nicer now to have him all to yourself on good terms , in a company-keeping , lovemaking , pleasant sort of manner ? '' 
It happened that that particular time , comprising the short daily interval which was suffered to elapse between what was pleasantly called the dinner of Mr. Squeers 's pupils and their return to the pursuit of useful knowledge , was precisely the hour when Nicholas was accustomed to issue forth for a melancholy walk , and to brood , as he sauntered listlessly through the village , upon his miserable lot . 
As Miss Squeers said this in the tone of one who has made a high moral resolution , and was besides taken with one or two chokes and catchings of breath , indicative of feelings at a high pressure , her friend made no farther remark , and they bore straight down upon Nicholas , who , walking with his eyes bent upon the ground , was not aware of their approach until they were close upon him ; otherwise he might perhaps have taken shelter himself . 
`` Good morning , '' said Nicholas , bowing and passing by . 
`` Come back , Mr. Nickleby , do , '' cried Miss Price , affecting alarm at her friend 's threat , but really actuated by a malicious wish to hear what Nicholas would say ; `` come back , Mr. Nickleby . '' 
Mr. Nickleby came back , and looked as confused as might be , as he inquired whether the ladies had any commands for him . 
`` Do n't call it foolish , dear , '' said Miss Price , her bright eye dancing with merriment as she saw the perplexity of Nicholas ; `` you have no reason to be ashamed of it . 
`` You are resolved to fix it upon me , I see , '' said Nicholas , smiling , `` although I told you last night it was not my fault . '' 
`` You will not understand me , '' said Nicholas . 
`` Dear me , '' said Nicholas , as the brown bonnet went down on his shoulder again , `` this is more serious than I supposed ; allow me . 
Here he raised up the brown bonnet , and regarding with most unfeigned astonishment a look of tender reproach from Miss Squeers , shrunk back a few paces to be out of the reach of the fair burden , and went on to say -- `` I am very sorry -- truly and sincerely sorry -- for having been the cause of any difference among you last night . 
`` Well ; that 's not all you have got to say surely , '' exclaimed Miss Price as Nicholas paused . 
`` I fear there is something more , '' stammered Nicholas with a half smile , and looking towards Miss Squeers , `` it is a most awkward thing to say -- but -- the very mention of such a supposition makes one look like a puppy -- still -- may I ask if that lady supposes that I entertain any -- in short does she think that I am in love with her ? '' 
exclaimed Nicholas with such energy of utterance as might have been for the moment mistaken for rapture . 
`` If Mr. Nickleby has doubted that , 'Til da , '' said the blushing Miss Squeers in soft accents , `` he may set his mind at rest . 
His sentiments are rccipro -- '' `` Stop , '' cried Nicholas hurriedly ; `` pray hear me . 
With this particularly plain and straight-forward declaration , which he made with all the vehemence that his indignant and excited feelings could bring to bear upon it , Nicholas slightly bowed , and waiting to hear no more , retreated . 
But there was one thing clear in the midst of her mortification , and that was that she hated and detested Nicholas with all the narrowness of mind and littleness of purpose worthy a descendant of the house of Squeers . 
And there was one comfort too ; and that was , that every hour in every day she could wound his pride and goad him with the infliction of some slight , or insult , or deprivation , which could not but have some effect on the most insensible person , and must be acutely felt by one so sensitive as Nicholas . 
With these two reflections uppermost in her mind , Miss Squeers made the best of the matter to her friend by observing , that Mr. Nickleby was such an odd creature , and of such a violent temper , that she feared she should be obliged to give him up ; and parted from her . 
And here it may be remarked , that Miss Squeers having bestowed her affections -LRB- or whatever it might be that in the absence of anything better represented them -RRB- on Nicholas Nickleby , had never once seriously contemplated the possibility of his being of a different opinion from herself in the business . 
Miss Squeers reasoned that she was prepossessing and beautiful , and that her father was master and Nicholas man , and that her father had saved money and Nicholas had none , all of which seemed to her conclusive arguments why the young man should feel only too much honoured by her preference . 
She had not failed to recollect , either , how much more agreeable she could render his situation if she were his friend , and how much more disagreeable if she were his enemy ; and doubtless , many less scrupulous young gentlemen than Nicholas would have encouraged her extravagance had it been only for this very obvious and intelligible reason . 
However , he had thought proper to do otherwise , and Miss Squeers was outrageous . 
It was scarcely necessary to do this , but Miss Squeers was as good as her word ; and poor Nicholas , in addition to bad food , dirty lodgement , and the being compelled to witness one dull unvarying round of squalid misery , was treated with every special indignity that malice could suggest , or the most grasping cupidity put upon him . 
The wretched creature , Smike , since the night Nicholas had spoken kindly to him in the school-room , had followed him to and fro with an ever restless desire to serve or help him , anticipating such little wants as his humble ability could supply , and content only to be near him . 
He would sit beside him for hours looking patiently into his face , and a word would brighten up his care-worn visage , and call into it a passing gleam even of happiness . 
He was an altered being ; he had an object now , and that object was to show his attachment to the only person -- that person a stranger -- who had treated him , not to say with kindness , but like a human creature . 
Upon this poor being all the spleen and ill-humour that could not be vented on Nicholas were unceasingly bestowed . 
Drudgery would have been nothing -- he was well used to that . 
Buffetings inflicted without cause would have been equally a matter of course , for to them also he had served a long and weary apprenticeship ; but it was no sooner observed that he had become attached to Nicholas , than stripes and blows , stripes and blows , morning , noon , and night , were his only portion . 
Nicholas saw it , and ground his teeth at every repetition of the savage and cowardly attack . 
He had arranged a few regular lessons for the boys , and one night as he paced up and down the dismal school-room , his swoln heart almost bursting to think that his protection and countenance should have increased the misery of the wretched being whose peculiar destitution had awakened his pity , he paused mechanically in a dark corner where sat the object of his thoughts . 
The poor soul was poring hard over a tattered book with the traces of recent tears still upon his face , vainly endeavouring to master some task which a child of nine years old , possessed of ordinary powers , could have conquered with case , but which to the addled brain of the crushed boy of nineteen was a sealed and hopeless mystery . 
Nicholas laid his hand upon his shoulder . 
`` Do not try , '' replied Nicholas . 
The boy shook his head , and closing the book with a sigh , looked vacantly round , and laid his head upon his arm . 
He was weeping . 
`` Do not for God 's sake , '' said Nicholas , in an agitated voice ; `` I can not bear to see you . '' 
`` I know it , '' rejoined Nicholas . 
`` You will do better , poor fellow , '' replied Nicholas , shaking his head mournfully , `` when I am gone . '' 
cried the other , looking intently in his face . 
rejoined Nicholas . 
`` I can not say , '' replied Nicholas , `` I was speaking more to my own thoughts than to you . '' 
said Nicholas . 
`` Heaven forbid , '' replied Nicholas , pursuing the train of his own thoughts , `` its hardest , coarsest toil , were happiness to this . '' 
`` Yes , '' replied Nicholas , willing to soothe him . 
said the other , clasping him by the hand . 
`` You would , '' replied Nicholas , with the same humane intention , `` and I would help and aid you , and not bring fresh sorrow on you as I have done here . '' 
The cold feeble dawn of a January morning was stealing in at the windows of the common sleeping-room , when Nicholas , raising himself upon his arm , looked among the prostrate forms which on every side surrounded him , as though in search of some particular object . 
Nicholas looked upon the sleepers , at first with the air of one who gazes upon a scene which , though familiar to him , has lost none of its sorrowful effect in consequence , and afterwards , with a more intense and searching scrutiny , as a man would who missed something his eye was accustomed to meet , and had expected to rest upon . 
`` We shall be down directly , Sir , '' replied Nicholas . 
Nicholas looked hurriedly round again , but made no answer . 
Still there was no reply , and still Nicholas stared about him , as did the greater part of the boys who were by this time roused . 
`` He is not here , Sir , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` He is not , '' retorted Nicholas angrily , `` do n't tell me one . '' 
`` I have seen nothing of him since last night , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` At the bottom of the nearest pond for aught I know , '' rejoined Nicholas in a low voice , and fixing his eyes full on the master 's face . 
There was of course a profound silence , during which , Nicholas showed his disgust as plainly as looks could show it . 
`` You think he has run away , I suppose ? '' 
`` I think it extremely likely , '' replied Nicholas , in a very quiet manner . 
`` Maybe you know he has ? '' 
`` He did ` nt tell you he was going , I suppose , did he ? '' 
`` He did not , '' replied Nicholas ; `` I am very glad he did not , for it would then have been my duty to have warned you in time . '' 
`` I should , indeed , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` What on earth are you a talking to him for , Squeery ! '' 
said Nicholas , smiling . 
`` Nor would you , if I had mine , '' replied Nicholas . 
Nicholas remained behind in a tumult of feeling , sensible that whatever might be the upshot of the boy 's flight , nothing but painful and deplorable consequences were likely to ensue from it . 
`` I 'll have consolation for this out of somebody , Nickleby , if Mrs. Squeers do n't hunt him down , so I give you warning . '' 
`` It is not in my power to console you , Sir , '' said Nicholas . 
`` We shall , '' rejoined Nicholas . 
`` Here 's the pony run right off his legs , and me obliged to come home with a hack cob , that 'll cost fifteen shillings besides other expenses , '' said Squeers ; `` who 's to pay for that , do you hear ? '' 
Nicholas shrugged his shoulders and remained silent . 
Nicholas bit his lip and knit his hands involuntarily , for his fingerends tingled to avenge the insult , but remembering that the man was drunk , and that it could come to little but a noisy brawl , he contented himself with darting a contemptuous look at the tyrant , and walked as majestically as he could up stairs , not a little nettled however to observe that Miss Squeers and Master Squeers , and the servant girl , were enjoying the scene from a snug corner ; the two former indulging in many edifying remarks about the presumption of poor upstarts ; which occasioned a vast deal of laughter , in which even the most miserable of all miserable servant girls joined , while Nicholas , stung to the quick , drew over his head such bedclothes as he had , and sternly resolved that the out-standing account between himself and Mr. Squeers should be settled rather more speedily than the latter anticipated . 
Another day came , and Nicholas was scarcely awake when he heard the wheels of a chaise approaching the house . 
Nicholas hardly dared to look out of the window , but he did so , and the very first object that met his eyes was the wretched Smike ; so bedabbled with mud and rain , so haggard and worn , and wild , that , but for his garments being such as no scarecrow was ever seen to wear , he might have been doubtful , even then , of his identity . 
Smike glanced round , and his eye rested for an instant on Nicholas , as if he had expected him to intercede ; but his look was riveted on his desk . 
Squeers caught the boy firmly in his grip ; one desperate cut had fallen on his body -- he was wincing from the lash and uttering a scream of pain -- it was raised again , and again about to fall -- when Nicholas Nickleby suddenly starting up , cried `` Stop ! '' 
`` I , '' said Nicholas , stepping forward . 
thundered Nicholas . 
Aghast and stupified by the boldness of the interference , Squeers released his hold of Smike , and falling back a pace or two , gazed upon Nicholas with looks that were positively frightful . 
`` I say must not , '' repeated Nicholas , nothing daunted ; `` shall not , I will prevent it . '' 
`` You have disregarded all my quiet interference in the miserable lad 's behalf , '' said Nicholas ; `` returned no answer to the letter in which I begged forgiveness for him , and offered to be responsible that he would remain quietly here . 
`` Wretch , '' rejoined Nicholas , fiercely , `` touch him at your peril ! 
`` I have a long series of insults to avenge , '' said Nicholas , flushed with passion ; `` and my indignation is aggravated by the dastardly cruelties practised on helpless infancy in this foul den . 
He had scarcely spoken when Squeers , in a violent outbreak of wrath and with a cry like the howl of a wild beast , spat upon him , and struck him a blow across the face with his instrument of torture , which raised up a bar of livid flesh as it was inflicted . 
Smarting with the agony of the blow , and concentrating into that one moment all his feelings of rage , scorn , and indignation , Nicholas sprang upon him , wrested the weapon from his hand , and , pinning him by the throat , beat the ruffian till he roared for mercy . 
The boys -- with the exception of Master Squeers , who , coming to his father 's assistance , harassed the enemy in the rear -- moved not hand or foot ; but Mrs. Squeers , with many shrieks for aid , hung on to the tail of her partner 's coat and endeavoured to drag him from his infuriated adversary ; while Miss Squeers , who had been peeping through the keyhole in expectation of a very different scene , darted in at the very beginning of the attack , and after launching a shower of inkstands at the usher 's head , beat Nicholas to her heart 's content , animating herself at every blow with the recollection of his having refused her proffered love , and thus imparting additional strength to an arm which -LRB- as she look after her mother in this respect -RRB- was at no time one of the weakest . 
N2510009 Nicholas , in the full torrent of his violence , felt the blows no more than if they had been dealt with feathers ; but becoming tired of the noise and uproar , and feeling that his arm grew weak besides , he threw all his remaining strength into half-a-dozen finishing cuts , and flung Squeers from him with all the force he could muster . 
Having brought affairs to this happy termination , and ascertained to his thorough satisfaction that Squeers was only stunned , and not dead -LRB- upon which point he had had some unpleasant doubts at first -RRB- , Nicholas left his family to restore him , and retired to consider what course he had better adopt . 
He looked anxiously round for Smike as he left the room , but he was no where to be seen . 
After a brief consideration he packed up a few clothes in a small leathern valise , and finding that nobody offered to oppose his progress , marched boldly out by the front-door , and shortly afterwards struck into the road which led to Greta Bridge . 
When he had cooled sufficiently to be enabled to give his present circumstances some little reflection , they did not appear in a very encouraging light , for he had only four shillings and a few pence in his pocket , and was something more than two hundred and fifty miles from London , whither he resolved to direct his steps , that he might ascertain , among other things , what account of the morning 's proceedings Mr. Squeers transmitted to his most affectionate uncle . 
`` I am in no mood for more noise and riot , '' thought Nicholas , `` and yet , do what I will , I shall have an altercation with this honest blockhead , and perhaps a blow or two from yonder staff . '' 
In truth there appeared some reason to expect that such a result would follow from the encounter , for John Browdie no sooner saw Nicholas advancing , than he reined in his horse by the footpath , and waited until such time as he should come up ; looking meanwhile very sternly between the horse 's ears at Nicholas , as he came on at his leisure . 
`` Yours , '' said Nicholas . 
`` Yes , '' replied Nicholas , hesitating . 
`` Come , '' he said , frankly , after a moment 's pause , `` we parted on no very good terms the last time we met ; it was my fault , I believe ; but I had no intention of offending you , and no idea that I was doing so . 
that I weel ; '' at the same time he bent down from the saddle , and gave Nicholas 's fist a huge wrench ; `` but wa'at be the matther wi ' thy feace , mun ? 
`` It is a cut , '' said Nicholas , turning scarlet as he spoke , -- `` a blow ; but I returned it to the giver , and with good interest too . '' 
`` The fact is , '' said Nicholas , not very well knowing how to make the avowal , `` the fact is , that I have been ill-treated . '' 
interposed John Browdie , in a tone of compassion ; for he was a giant in strength and stature , and Nicholas very likely in his eyes seemed a mere dwarf ; `` dea n't say thot . '' 
`` Yes , I have , '' replied Nicholas , `` by that man Squeers , and I have beaten him soundly , and am leaving this place in consequence . '' 
Dang it , I loove thee for ` t. '' With these expressions of delight , John Browdie laughed and laughed again -- so loud that the echoes far and wide sent back nothing but jovial peals of merriment -- and shook Nicholas by the hand meanwhile no less heartily . 
When his mirth had subsided , he inquired what Nicholas meant to do ; on his informing him , to go straight to London , he shook his head doubtfully , and inquired if he knew how much the coaches charged to carry passengers so far . 
`` No , I do not , '' said Nicholas ; `` but it is of no great consequence to me , for I intend walking . '' 
`` Every step of the way , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` Nay noo , '' replied the honest countryman , reining in his impatient horse , `` stan ' still , tellee . 
`` Not much , '' said Nicholas , colouring , `` but I can make it enough . 
John Browdie made no verbal answer to this remark , but putting his hand in his pocket , pulled out an old purse of soiled leather , and insisted that Nicholas should borrow from him whatever he required for his present necessities . 
`` Dea n't be afeard , mun , '' he said ; `` tak ' eneaf to carry thee whoam . 
Nicholas could by no means be prevailed upon to borrow more than a sovereign , with which loan Mr. Browdie , after many entreaties that he would accept of more -LRB- observing , with a touch of Yorkshire caution , that if he did n't spend it all he could put the surplus by , till he had an opportunity of remitting it carriage free -RRB- , was fain to content himself . 
`` Tak ' that bit o ' timber to help thee on wi ' , mun , '' he added , pressing his stick on Nicholas , and giving his hand another squeeze ; `` keep a good hart , and bless thee . 
So saying , and indulging , with more delicacy than could have been expected from him , in another series of loud laughs , for the purpose of avoiding the thanks which Nicholas poured forth , John Browdie set spurs to his horse , and went off at a smart canter , looking back from time to time as Nicholas stood gazing after him ; and waving his hand cheerily , as if to encourage him on his way . 
Nicholas watched the horse and rider until they disappeared over the brow of a distant hill , and then set forward on his journey . 
He did not travel far that afternoon , for by this time it was nearly dark , and there had been a heavy fall of snow , which not only rendered the way toilsome , but the track uncertain and difficult to find after daylight , save by experienced wayfarers . 
He lay that night at a cottage , where beds were let at a cheap rate to the more humble class of travellers , and rising betimes next morning , made his way before night to Boroughbridge . 
Passing through that town in search of some cheap resting-place , he stumbled upon an empty barn within a couple of hundred yards of the road side ; in a warm corner of which he stretched his weary limbs , and soon fell asleep . 
When he awoke next morning , and tried to recollect his dreams , which had been all connected with his recent sojourn at Dotheboys Hall , he sat up , rubbed his eyes , and stared -- not with the most composed countenance possible -- at some motionless object which seemed to be stationed within a few yards in front of him . 
cried Nicholas ; `` can this be some lingering creation of the visions that have scarcely left me ! 
The form moved , rose , advanced , and dropped upon its knees at his feet . 
said Nicholas , hastily raising him . 
`` To go with you -- anywhere -- everywhere -- to the world 's end -- to the churchyard grave , '' replied Smike , clinging to his hand . 
said Nicholas , kindly . 
He had followed him , it seemed ; had never lost sight of him all the way ; had watched while he slept , and when he halted for refreshment ; and had feared to appear before , lest he should be sent back . 
He had not intended to appear now , but Nicholas had awakened more suddenly than he looked for , and he had no time to conceal himself . 
said Nicholas , `` your hard fate denies you any friend but one , and he is nearly as poor and helpless as yourself . '' 
I want no clothes , '' added the poor creature , drawing his rags together ; `` these will do very well . 
`` And you shall , '' cried Nicholas . 
With these words he strapped his burden on his shoulders , and taking his stick in one hand , extended the other to his delighted charge , and so they passed out of the old barn together . 
Newman Noggs scrambled in violent haste up stairs with the steaming beverage , which he had so unceremoniously snatched from the table of Mr. Kenwigs , and indeed from the very grasp of the water-rate collector , who was eyeing the contents of the tumbler at the moment of its unexpected abstraction , with lively marks of pleasure visible in his countenance , and bore his prize straight to his own back garret , where , footsore and nearly shoeless , wet , dirty , jaded , and disfigured with every mark of fatiguing travel , sat Nicholas , and Smike , at once the cause and partner of his toil : both perfectly worn out by their unwonted and protracted exertion . 
Newman 's first act was to compel Nicholas , with gentle force , to swallow half of the punch at a breath , nearly boiling as it was , and his next to pour the remainder down the throat of Smike , who , never having tasted anything stronger than aperient medicine in his whole life , exhibited various odd manifestations of surprise and delight , during the passage of the liquor down his throat , and turned up his eyes most emphatically when it was all gone . 
`` You are wet through , '' said Newman , passing his hand hastily over the coat which Nicholas had thrown off ; `` and I -- I -- have n't even a change , '' he added , with a wistful glance at the shabby clothes he wore himself . 
`` I have dry clothes , or at least such as will serve my turn well , in my bundle , '' replied Nicholas . 
Newman did not look the less distressed to hear Nicholas talking in this strain ; but upon his young friend grasping him heartily by the hand , and assuring him that nothing but implicit confidence in the sincerity of his professions , and kindness of feeling towards himself , would have induced him , on any consideration , even to have made him acquainted with his arrival in London , Mr. Noggs brightened up again , and went about making such arrangements as were in his power for the comfort of his visitors , with extreme alacrity . 
As Nicholas had husbanded his scanty stock of money so well that it was not yet quite expended , a supper of bread and cheese , with some cold beef from the cook 's shop , was soon placed upon the table ; and these viands being flanked by a bottle of spirits and a pot of porter . 
Such preparations as Newman had it in his power to make , for the accommodation of his guests during the night , occupied no very great time in completing ; and as he had insisted , as an express preliminary , that Nicholas should change his clothes , and that Smike should invest himself in his solitary coat -LRB- which no entreaties would dissuade him from stripping off for the purpose -RRB- , the travellers partook of their frugal fare with more satisfaction than one of them at least had derived from many a better meal . 
They then drew near the fire , which Newman Noggs had made up as well as he could , after the inroads of Crowl upon the fuel ; and Nicholas , who had hitherto been restrained by the extreme anxiety of his friend that he should refresh himself after his journey , now pressed him with earnest questions concerning his mother and sister . 
inquired Nicholas . 
`` And my sister '' -- added Nicholas . 
In the present instance , the pantomime consisted of a nod , and not a shake , so Nicholas took the answer as a favourable one . 
`` Now listen to me , '' said Nicholas , laying his hand on Newman 's shoulder . 
Newman opened and shut his mouth several times , as though he were trying his utmost to speak , but could make nothing of it , and finally fixed his eyes on Nicholas with a grim and ghastly stare . 
urged Nicholas , colouring . 
urged Nicholas . 
`` I should sleep the worse , '' answered Nicholas , impatiently . 
`` Why , then you may rouse my indignation or wound my pride , '' rejoined Nicholas ; `` but you will not break my rest ; for if the scene were acted over again , I could take no other part than I have taken ; and whatever consequences may accrue to myself from it , I shall never regret doing as I have -- never , if I starve or beg in consequence . 
With this gentle allusion to the absent Mr. Squeers , Nicholas repressed his rising wrath , and relating to Newman exactly what had passed at Dotheboys Hall , entreated him to speak out without further pressing . 
Newman accompanied this very unusual outbreak with a violent blow upon the table , as if , in the heat of the moment , he had mistaken it for the chest or ribs of Mr. Wackford Squeers ; and having , by this open declaration of his feelings , quite precluded himself from offering Nicholas any cautious worldly advice -LRB- which had been his first intention -RRB- , Mr. Noggs went straight to the point . 
`` If you please , '' replied Nicholas . 
A profound silence succeeded to the reading of this choice epistle , during which Newman Noggs , as he folded it up , gazed with a kind of grotesque pity at the boy of desperate character therein referred to ; who , having no more distinct perception of the matter in hand , than that he had been the unfortunate cause of heaping trouble and falsehood upon Nicholas , sat mute and dispirited , with a most woe-begone and heart-stricken look . 
`` Mr. Noggs , '' said Nicholas , after a few moments ' reflection , `` I must go out at once . '' 
`` Yes , '' said Nicholas , `` to Golden Square . 
`` They must not , indeed , '' rejoined Nicholas firmly , as he prepared to leave the house . 
asked Nicholas , chafing violently , and pacing the narrow room with rapid strides . 
demanded Nicholas , precipitately ; `` not even to my mother or sister ? 
`` You mean well to me , and should know him better than I can , replied Nicholas , after some further thought . 
Newman , who had stood during the foregoing conversation with his back planted against the door ready to oppose any egress from the apartment by force , if necessary , resumed his seat with much satisfaction ; and as the water in the kettle was by this time boiling , made a glassfull of spirits and water for Nicholas , and a cracked mug-full for the joint accommodation of himself and Smike , of which the two partook in great harmony , while Nicholas , leaning his head upon his hand remained buried in melancholy meditation . 
`` Suppose it should be an express sent up to say that his property has all come back again ! '' 
Perhaps , in that case , we 'd better send up and ask if he wo n't take a little more punch . '' 
`` Making such a remark as that , Sir , '' replied Mr. Lillyvick , angrily `` He has had punch already , has he not , Sir ? 
Pending the utterance of these frantic cries , and the wails and lamentations of the four little girls , Mr. Kenwigs rushed up stairs to the room whence the sounds proceeded , at the door of which he encountered Nicholas , with the child in his arms , who darted out with such violence that the anxious father was thrown down six stairs , and alighted on the nearest landing-place , before he had found time to open his mouth to ask what was the matter . 
`` Do n't be alarmed , '' cried Nicholas , running down ; `` here it is ; it 's all out , it 's all over ; pray compose yourselves ; there 's no harm done ; '' and with these , and a thousand other assurances , he delivered the baby -LRB- whom , in his hurry , he had carried upside down -RRB- , to Mrs. Kenwigs , and ran back to assist Mr. Kenwigs , who was rubbing his head very hard , and looking much bewildered by his tumble . 
`` It is a mere nothing , '' said Nicholas , returning to Mrs. Kenwigs ; `` the little girl , who was watching the child , being tired I suppose , fell asleep , and set her hair on fire . '' 
`` I heard her cries , '' continued Nicholas , `` and ran down in time to prevent her setting fire to any thing else . 
This brief explanation over , the infant , who , as he was christened after the collector , rejoiced in the names of Lillyvick Kenwigs , was partially suffocated under the caresses of the audience , and squeezed to his mother 's bosom , until he roared again . 
`` You need say nothing at all , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` Not very likely , I think , '' replied Nicholas ; `` for there was abundance of assistance here , which must have reached him before he had been in any danger . '' 
`` -- In my absence , by all means , '' rejoined Nicholas , with a smile . 
Excusing himself in these terms from joining in the festivities , Nicholas took a most winning farewell of Mrs. Kenwigs and the other ladies , and retired , after making a very extraordinary impression upon the company . 
there 's no accounting for tastes ; '' but the ladies resolved unanimously that Nicholas had an aristocratic air , and nobody caring to dispute the position , it was established triumphantly . 
As to Nicholas , quite unconscious of the impression he had produced , he had long since fallen asleep , leaving Mr. Newman Noggs and Smike to empty the spirit bottle between them ; and this office they performed with such extreme good will , that Newman was equally at a loss to determine whether he himself was quite sober , and whether he had ever seen any gentleman so heavily , drowsily , and completely intoxicated as his new acquaintance . 
The first care of Nicholas next morning was , to look after some room in which , until better times dawned upon him , he could contrive to exist , without trenching upon the hospitality of Newman Noggs , who would have slept upon the stairs with pleasure , so that his young friend was accommodated . 
Of this chamber Nicholas became the tenant ; and having hired a few common articles of furniture from a neighbouring broker , and paid the first week 's hire in advance , out of a small fund raised by the conversion of some spare clothes into ready money , he sat himself down to ruminate upon his prospects , which , like that outside his window , were sufficiently confined and dingy . 
The unhappy state of his own affairs was the one idea which occupied the brain of Nicholas , walk as fast as he would ; and when he tried to dislodge it by speculating on the situation and prospects of the people who surrounded him , he caught himself in a few seconds contrasting their condition with his own , and gliding almost imperceptibly back into his old train of thought again . 
Occupied in these reflections , as he was making his way along one of the great public thoroughfares of London , he chanced to raise his eyes to a blue board , whereon was inscribed in characters of gold , `` General Agency Office ; for places and situations of all kinds inquire within . '' 
Nicholas halted instinctively before this temple of promise , and ran his eye over the capital-text openings in life which were so profusely displayed . 
When he had completed his survey he walked on a little way , and then back , and then on again ; at length , after pausing irresolutely several times before the door of the General Agency Office , he made up his mind and stepped in . 
As there was a board outside , which acquainted the public that servants-of-all-work were perpetually in waiting to be hired from ten till four , Nicholas knew at once that some half-dozen strong young women , each with pattens and an umbrella , who were sitting upon a form in one corner , were in attendance for that purpose , especially as the poor things looked anxious and weary . 
He was not quite so certain of the callings and stations of two smart young ladies who were in conversation with the fat lady before the fire , until -- having sat himself down in a corner , and remarked that he would wait until the other customers had been served -- the fat lady resumed the dialogue which his entrance had interrupted . 
As Nicholas opened his mouth , to request the young man to turn to letter S , and let him know what secretaryships remained undisposed of , there came into the office an applicant , in whose favour he immediately retired , and whose appearance both surprised and interested him . 
This girl followed her mistress ; and before Nicholas had recovered from the first effects of his surprise and admiration , the young lady was gone . 
It is not a matter of such complete and utter improbability as some sober people may think , that he would have followed them out , had he not been restrained by what passed between the fat lady and her book-keeper . 
Tom made no other reply than thrusting his tongue into his check , and pointing the feather of his pen towards Nicholas -- reminders which elicited from the fat lady an inquiry of `` Now , Sir , what can we do for you ? '' 
Nicholas briefly replied , that he wanted to know whether there was any such post as secretary or amanuensis to a gentleman to be had . 
`` I should think so , '' answered that young gentleman ; and as he said it , he winked towards Nicholas , with a degree of familiarity which he no doubt intended for a rather flattering compliment , but with which Nicholas was most ungratefully disgusted . 
Mr. Gregsbury , the great member of parliament , of Manchester Buildings , Westminster , wanted a young man , to keep his papers and correspondence in order ; and Nicholas was exactly the sort of young man that Mr. Gregsbury wanted . 
Inexperienced as he was , Nicholas did not feel quite assured of the force of this reasoning , or the justice of this conclusion ; but without troubling himself to question it , he took down the address , and resolved to wait upon Mr. Gregsbury without delay . 
`` What girl , Sir , '' demanded Nicholas , sternly . 
Nicholas looked at the ugly clerk , as if he had a mind to reward his admiration of the young lady by beating the ledger about his ears , but he refrained , and strode haughtily out of the office ; setting at defiance , in his indignation , those ancient laws of chivalry , which not only made it proper and lawful for all good knights to hear the praise of the ladies to whom they were devoted , but rendered it incumbent upon them to roam about the world , and knock at head all such matter of-fact and unpoetical characters , as declined to exalt , above all the earth , damsels whom they had never chanced to look upon or hear of -- as if that were any excuse . 
Thinking no longer of his own misfortunes , but wondering what could be those of the beautiful girl he had seen , Nicholas , with many wrong turns , and many inquiries , and almost as many misdirections , bent his steps towards the place whither he had been directed . 
Nicholas thought he might as well get in while he could , so in he walked ; and he had no sooner done so , than the boy shut the door and made off . 
As a few minutes elapsed without anything occurring to explain this phenomenon , and as he felt his own position a peculiarly uncomfortable one , Nicholas was on the point of seeking some information from the man next him , when a sudden move was visible on the stairs , and a voice was heard to cry , `` Now , gentlemen , have the goodness to walk up . '' 
So far from walking up , the gentlemen on the stairs began to walk down with great alacrity , and to entreat , with extraordinary politeness , that the gentlemen nearest the street would go first : the gentlemen nearest the street retorted , with equal courtesy , that they could n't think of such a thing on any account ; but they did it without thinking of it , inasmuch as the other gentlemen pressing some half-dozen -LRB- among whom was Nicholas -RRB- forward , and closing up behind , pushed them , not merely up the stairs , but into the very sitting-room of Mr. Gregsbury , which they were thus compelled to enter with most unseemly precipitation , and without the means of retreat ; the press behind them more than filling the apartment . 
The last man being gone , Mr. Gregsbury rubbed his hands and chuckled , as merry fellows will , when they think they have said or done a more than commonly good thing ; he was so engrossed in this self-congratulation , that he did not observe that Nicholas had been left behind in the shadow of the window-curtains , until that young gentleman fearing he might otherwise overhear some soliloquy intended to have no listeners , coughed twice or thrice to attract the member 's notice . 
Nicholas stepped forward and bowed . 
`` I should have done so if I had belonged to it , but I do not , '' said Nicholas . 
`` I brought this card from the General Agency Office , Sir , '' said Nicholas , `` wishing to offer myself as your secretary , and understanding that you stood in need of one . '' 
Nicholas replied in the affirmative . 
`` I have no connexion , I am sorry to say , with anything at present , '' rejoined Nicholas , -- politely enough , but quite at his ease . 
Nicholas related how he had been forced up by the deputation . 
Nicholas took a chair , and Mr. Gregsbury stared at him for a long time , as if to make certain , before he asked any further questions , that there were no objections to his outward appearance . 
`` I wish to be employed in that capacity , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` I suppose , '' replied Nicholas , smiling , `` that I can do what usually falls to the lot of other secretaries . '' 
replied Nicholas . 
retorted the member , looking shrewdly at him , with his head on one side . 
`` A secretary 's duties are rather difficult to define , perhaps , '' said Nicholas , considering . 
`` Occasionally , perhaps , the writing from your dictation ; and possibly , '' -- said Nicholas , with a half smile , `` the copying of your speech , for some public journal , when you have made one of more than usual importance . '' 
`` Really , '' said Nicholas , after a moment 's reflection , `` I am not able , at this instant , to recapitulate any other duty of a secretary , beyond the general one of making himself as agreeable and useful to his employer as he can , consistently with his own respectability , and without overstepping that line of duties which he undertakes to perform , and which the designation of his office is usually understood to imply . '' 
Mr. Gregsbury looked fixedly at Nicholas for a short time , and then glancing warily round the room , said in a suppressed voice -- `` This is all very well , Mr. -- what is your name ? '' 
`` I beg your pardon , '' interposed Nicholas , doubtful whether he had heard aright . 
said Nicholas . 
`` I think I do , Sir , '' replied Nicholas . 
Nicholas bowed . 
`` I think I understand , '' said Nicholas . 
`` I see that , Sir , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` Fifteen shillings a week is not much , '' said Nicholas , mildly . 
`` Fifteen shillings a -- '' `` Pray do not suppose that I quarrel with the sum , '' replied Nicholas ; for I am not ashamed to confess , that whatever it may be in itself , to me it is a great deal . 
`` I fear they are too great for my powers , however good my will may be , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` I have no alternative but to do so , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` I am sorry I have troubled you unnecessarily , Sir , '' said Nicholas . 
`` Good morning , '' said Nicholas . 
The boy beckoned Nicholas , and tumbling lazily down stairs before him , opened the door and ushered him into the street . 
With a sad and pensive air he retraced his steps homewards . 
The occurrences of the morning had not improved Nicholas 's appetite , and by him the dinner remained untasted . 
He was sitting in a thoughtful attitude , with the plate which the poor fellow had assiduously filled with the choicest morsels untouched , by his side , when Newman Noggs looked into the room . 
`` Yes , '' replied Nicholas , `` tired to death ; and what is worse , might have remained at home for all the good I have done . '' 
`` May be so , but I am sanguine , and did expect , '' said Nicholas , `` and am proportionately disappointed . '' 
Saying which , he gave Newman an account of his proceedings . 
`` If I could do anything , '' said Nicholas , `` anything however slight , until Ralph Nickleby returns , and I have eased my mind by confronting him , I should feel happier . 
asked Nicholas , raising his eyes . 
Except -- '' added Nicholas hastily , after a short silence , `` except such squeamishness as is common honesty , and so much pride as constitutes self-respect . 
asked Nicholas . 
`` Then in Heaven 's name , my good friend , tell it me , '' said Nicholas . 
Moved by this entreaty , Newman stammered forth a variety of most unaccountable and entangled sentences , the upshot of which was , that Mrs. Kenwigs had examined him at great length that morning touching the origin of his acquaintance with , and the whole life , adventures , and pedigree of Nicholas ; that Newman had parried these questions as long as he could , but being at length hard pressed and driven into a corner , had gone so far as to admit , that Nicholas was a tutor of great accomplishments , involved in some misfortunes which he was not at liberty to explain , and bearing the name of Johnson . 
said Nicholas , with great alacrity ; `` of course I shall . 
And here it may be observed , that Nicholas was not , in the ordinary sense of the word , a young man of high spirit . 
He would resent an affront to himself , or interpose to redress a wrong offered to another , as boldly and freely as any knight that ever set lance in rest ; but he lacked that peculiar excess of coolness and great-minded selfishness , which invariably distinguish gentlemen of high spirit . 
Nicholas , therefore , not being a high-spirited young man according to common parlance , and deeming it a greater degradation to borrow , for the supply of his necessities , from Newman Noggs , than to teach French to the little Kenwigses for five shillings a week , accepted the offer with the alacrity already described , and betook himself to the first floor with all convenient speed Here he was received by Mrs. Kenwigs with a genteel air , kindly intended to assure him of her protection and support ; and here too he found Mr. Lillyvick and Miss Petowker : the four Miss Kenwigses on their form of audience , and the baby in a dwarf porter 's chair with a deal tray before it , amusing himself with a toy horse without a head ; the said horse being composed of a small wooden cylinder supported on four crooked pegs , not unlike an Italian iron , and painted in ingenious resemblance of red wafers set in blacking . 
said Mr. Lillyvick -- rather sharply ; for he had not known what Nicholas was , on the previous night , and it was rather an aggravating circumstance if a tax collector had been too polite to a teacher . 
asked Nicholas . 
`` A pretty language , certainly , '' replied Nicholas ; `` and as it has a name for everything , and admits of elegant conversation about everything , I presume it is a sensible one . '' 
`` Yes , '' replied Nicholas , `` I should say it was , certainly . '' 
asked Nicholas , scarcely able to repress a smile . 
Mr. Lillyvick was waxing so cross , that Mrs. Kenwigs thought it expedient to motion to Nicholas not to say anything ; and it was not until Miss Petowker had practised several blandishments , to soften the excellent old gentleman , that he deigned to break silence , by asking , `` What 's the water in French , Sir ? '' 
`` L'Eau , '' replied Nicholas . 
This permission being conceded , the four Miss Kenwigses sat in a row , with their tails all one way , and Morleena at the top , while Nicholas , taking the book , began his preliminary explanations . 
`` A hundred guineas down will buy him ; mane , and crest , and legs , and tail , all of the demdest beauty . 
I will ride him in the park before the very chariots of the rejected countesses . 
The demd old dowager will faint with grief and rage ; the other two will say ` He is married , he has made away with himself , it is a demd thing , it is all up . ' 
-- and if Nicholas has any good fortune , you might have Doctor Nickleby , the head-master of Westminster School , living in the same street . '' 
`` Dear Nicholas ! '' 
Four-and-twenty silver tea spoons , brother-in-law , two gravies , four salts , all the amethysts -- necklace , brooch , and ear-rings -- all made away with at the same time , and I saying almost on my bended knees to that poor good soul , ` Why do n't you do something , Nicholas ? 
`` -- As a matter of business , '' pursued Ralph , speaking slowly and firmly , as a man who has made up his mind to say no more , `` because I thought she might make some impression on the silly youth you have taken in hand and are lending good help to ruin , I knew -- knowing him -- that it would be long before he outraged her girl 's feelings , and that unless he offended by mere puppyism and emptiness , he would , with a little management , respect the sex and conduct even of his usurer 's niece . 
But if I thought to draw him on more gently by this device , I did not think of subjecting the girl to the licentiousness and brutality of so old a hand as you . 
`` Mr. Nicholas ! '' 
`` You have not forgotten me , I see , '' replied Nicholas , extending his hand . 
asked Nicholas . 
Nicholas , with becoming gallantry , immediately took Miss La Creevy at her word , who uttered a faint scream and slapped his face ; but it was not a very hard slap , and that 's the truth . 
`` You told me to try , '' said Nicholas . 
that 's another thing , '' said Nicholas ; `` you should have told me that , too . '' 
She stopped here ; for there was so much heart in her altered tone and manner , that Nicholas was quite moved . 
`` I need look somewhat changed , '' he said , after a short silence ; `` for I have undergone some suffering , both of mind and body , since I left London . 
`` Good Heaven , Mr. Nicholas ! '' 
`` Nothing which need distress you quite so much , '' answered Nicholas , with a more sprightly air ; `` neither did I come here to bewail my lot , but on matter more to the purpose . 
`` In the main , '' said Nicholas , `` there may be no great difference of opinion between you and me , so far ; but you will understand , that I desire to confront him ; to justify myself , and to cast his duplicity and malice in his throat . '' 
`` To this end I called upon him this morning , '' said Nicholas . 
`` No , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` I have reason to believe , '' pursued Nicholas , `` from what has been told me by a friend of mine , who is acquainted with his movements , that he intends seeing my mother and sister to-day , and giving them his version of the occurrences that have befallen me . 
`` I have considered others , '' rejoined Nicholas ; `` but as honesty and honour are both at issue , nothing shall deter me . '' 
`` In this case I hope so , '' answered Nicholas . 
Talking on very fast and very much , Miss La Creevy finished her breakfast with great expedition ; put away the tea-caddy and hid the key under the fender , resumed her bonnet , and , taking Nicholas 's arm , sallied forth at once to the city . 
Nicholas left her near the door of his mother 's house , and promised to return within a quarter of an hour at furthest . 
It so chanced that Ralph Nickleby , at length seeing fit , for his own purposes , to communicate the atrocities of which Nicholas had been guilty , had -LRB- instead of first proceeding to another quarter of the town on business , as Newman Noggs supposed he would -RRB- , gone straight to his sister-in-law . 
`` Nicholas ! 
`` It would be my duty , if he came in my way , to deliver him up to justice , '' said Ralph , `` my bounden duty ; I should have no other course , as a man of the world and a man of business , to pursue . 
cried a furious voice , as the door was dashed open , and Nicholas burst into the centre of the room . 
In another moment , he stood fixed and immoveable with folded arms , regarding his nephew with a scowl of deadly hatred , while Kate and Miss La Creevy threw themselves between the two to prevent the personal violence which the fierce excitement of Nicholas appeared to threaten . 
`` Dear Nicholas , '' cried his sister , clinging to him . 
cried Nicholas , clasping her hand so tight in the tumult of his anger , that she could scarcely bear the pain . 
`` When I consider all , and think of what has passed , I need be made of iron to stand before him . '' 
said Nicholas , looking round . 
`` Whose ears have been poisoned by you , '' said Nicholas ; `` by you -- you , who under pretence of deserving the thanks she poured upon you , heaped every insult , wrong , and indignity , upon my head . 
I call Heaven to witness , '' said Nicholas , looking eagerly round , `` that I have seen all this , and that that man knows it . '' 
said Nicholas . 
`` I interfered , '' said Nicholas , `` to save a miserable wretched creature from the vilest and most degrading cruelty . 
`` Dear Nicholas , I only tell you , that you may know what wickedness can prompt , but they accuse you of -- a ring is missing , and they dare to say that -- '' `` The woman , '' said Nicholas , haughtily , `` the wife of the fellow from whom these charges come , dropped -- as I suppose -- a worthless ring among some clothes of mine , early in the morning on which I left the house . 
`` That boy , a silly , helpless creature , from brutality and hard usage , is with me now , '' rejoined Nicholas . 
`` No , I do not , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` No , '' repeated Nicholas , `` not to the man with whom I found him . 
`` You can speak when and what you please , '' replied Nicholas , embracing his sister . 
He then glanced steadily at her and Nicholas by turns , as he delivered himself in these words : -- `` Of what I have done , or what I meant to do , for you , ma'am , and my niece , I say not one syllable . 
If Ralph had not known and felt his power in wounding those he hated , his glances at Nicholas would have shown it him in all its force , as he proceeded in the above address . 
`` Why do you say ` if Nicholas has done what they say he has , ' mama ? '' 
`` You know he has not . '' 
`` I do n't know what to think , one way or other , my dear , '' said Mrs. Nickleby ; `` Nicholas is so violent , and your uncle has so much honest composure , that I can only hear what he says , and not what Nicholas does . 
`` Stay , '' said Nicholas , as Ralph turned to go . 
`` Nicholas , '' cried Kate , throwing herself on her brother 's shoulder , and clasping him in her arms , `` do not say so . 
Mama , speak to him . 
Do not mind her , Nicholas ; she does not mean it , you should know her better . 
`` I never meant , Kate , '' said Nicholas , tenderly , `` I never meant to stay among you ; think better of me than to suppose it possible . 
Be a woman , Kate , '' he whispered , proudly , `` and do not make me one while he looks on . '' 
`` You will be helped when I am away , '' replied Nicholas , hurriedly . 
The grasp which had detained him , relaxed , and Kate fainted in his arms . 
Nicholas stooped over her for a few seconds , and placing her gently in a chair , confided her to their honest friend . 
He hardly knew that it was concluded , and Mrs. Nickleby had scarcely made up her mind to detain her son by force if necessary , when Nicholas was gone . 
As he hurried through the streets to his obscure lodging , seeking to keep pace , as it were , with the rapidity of the thoughts which crowded upon him , many doubts and hesitations arose in his mind and almost tempted him to return . 
Supposing he were to put Ralph Nickleby at defiance , and were even fortunate enough to obtain some small employment , his being with them could only render their present condition worse , and might greatly impair their future prospects , for his mother had spoken of some new kindnesses towards Kate which she had not denied . 
`` No , '' thought Nicholas , `` I have acted for the best . '' 
But before he had gone five hundred yards , some other and different feeling would come upon him , and then he would lag again , and pulling his hat over his eyes , give way to the melancholy reflections which pressed thickly upon him . 
To have committed no fault , and yet to be so entirely alone in the world ; to be separated from the only persons he loved , and to be proscribed like a criminal , when six months ago he had been surrounded by every comfort , and looked up to as the chief hope of his family -- this was hard to bear . 
He had not deserved it either . 
Well , there was comfort in that ; and poor Nicholas would brighten up again , to be again depressed , as his quickly-shifting thoughts presented every variety of light and shade before him . 
Undergoing these alternations of hope and misgiving , which no one , placed in a situation of even ordinary trial , can fail to have experienced , Nicholas at length reached his poor room , where , no longer borne up by the excitement which had hitherto sustained him , but depressed by the revulsion of feeling it left behind , he threw himself on the bed , and turning his face to the wall , gave free vent to the emotions he had so long stifled . 
He had not heard anybody enter , and was unconscious of the presence of Smike , until , happening to raise his head , he saw him standing at the upper end of the room , looking wistfully towards him . 
He withdrew his eyes when he saw that he was observed , and affected to be busied with some scanty preparations for dinner . 
`` Well , Smike , '' said Nicholas , as cheerfully as he could speak , `` let me hear what new acquaintances you have made this morning , or what new wonder you have found out in the compass of this street and the next one . '' 
`` Of what you like , '' replied Nicholas , good-humouredly . 
You grow , '' said the lad , laying his hand timidly on that of Nicholas , `` you grow thinner every day ; your cheek is paler , and your eye more sunk . 
The poor fellow could get no further , for his eyes filled with tears , and his voice was gone . 
`` The word which separates us , '' said Nicholas , grasping him heartily by the shoulder , `` shall never be said by me , for you are my only comfort and stay . 
The agitation she had undergone rendered Kate Nickleby unable to resume her duties at the dress-maker 's for three days , at the expiration of which interval she betook herself at the accustomed hour , and with languid steps , to the temple of fashion where Madame Mantalini reigned paramount and supreme . 
`` It is all over , there will be nothing the matter ; money shall be got in , and if it do n't come in fast enough , old Nickleby shall stump up again , or have his jugular separated if he dares to vex and hurt the little -- '' `` Hush ! '' 
The whole capital which Nicholas found himself entitled to , either in possession , reversion , remainder , or expectancy , after paying his rent and settling with the broker from whom he had hired his poor furniture , did not exceed by more than a few halfpence the sum of twenty shillings . 
And yet he hailed the morning on which he had resolved to quit London with a light heart , and sprang from his bed with an elasticity of spirit which is happily the lot of young persons , or the world would never be stocked with old ones . 
Before even these indications of approaching morning were rife in busy London , Nicholas had made his way alone to the city , and stood beneath the windows of his mother 's house . 
It was dull and bare to see , but it had light and life for him ; for there was at least one heart within its old walls to which insult or dishonour would bring the same blood rushing that flowed in his own veins . 
He crossed the road , and raised his eyes to the window of the room where he knew his sister slept . 
`` Poor girl , '' thought Nicholas , `` she little thinks who lingers here ! '' 
He looked again , and felt for the moment almost vexed that Kate was not there to exchange one word at parting . 
he thought , suddenly correcting himself , `` what a boy I am ! '' 
`` It is better as it is , '' said Nicholas , after he had longed on a few paces and returned to the same spot . 
As he spoke , some fancied motion of the curtain almost persuaded him , for the instant , that Kate was at the window , and by one of those strange contradictions of feeling which are common to us all , he shrunk involuntarily into a door-way , that she might not see him . 
He smiled at his own weakness ; said `` God bless them ! '' 
`` To Kingston first , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` Because I scarcely know myself , good friend , '' rejoined Nicholas , laying his hand upon his shoulder ; `` and if I did , I have neither plan nor prospect yet , and might shift my quarters a hundred times before you could possibly communicate with me . '' 
`` I am not very likely to , '' rejoined Nicholas . 
Occupied in such discourse as this they walked on for a couple of hours , as they might have done for a couple of days if Nicholas had not sat himself down on a stone by the way-side , and resolutely declared his intention of not moving another step until Newman Noggs turned back . 
`` Now listen to me , Smike , '' said Nicholas , as they trudged with stout hearts onwards . 
`` I do n't know much of these matters , '' resumed Nicholas ; `` but Portsmouth is a sea-port town , and if no other employment is to be obtained , I should think we might get on board of some ship . 
`` Yes , I know , '' said Nicholas . 
`` Well , when I was there , '' resumed Smike ; his eyes sparkling at the prospect of displaying his abilities ; `` I could milk a cow , and groom a horse with anybody . '' 
said Nicholas , gravely . 
`` God knows you are , '' rejoined Nicholas ; `` and if you fail , it shall go hard but I 'll do enough for us both . '' 
`` That would be too severe a trial , even for your willing legs , '' said Nicholas , with a good-humoured smile . 
asked Nicholas . 
`` You are a foolish fellow to say it , for I know it well , and see it , or I should be a blind and senseless beast , '' rejoined Nicholas . 
`` Let me ask you a question while I think of it , and there is no one by , '' he added , looking him steadily in the face . 
asked Nicholas , turning quickly upon him as though the answer in some way helped out the purport of his question . 
`` You are wandering now , '' said Nicholas , touching him on the arm . 
`` No , '' replied his companion , with a vacant look . 
He shivered involuntarily as he spoke . 
`` Think no more of that place , for it is all over , '' retorted Nicholas , fixing his eye full upon that of his companion , which was fast settling into an unmeaning stupified gaze , once habitual to him , and common even then . 
`` That was before you began to lose your recollection , you know , '' said Nicholas quietly . 
`` As you were then , '' repeated Nicholas , with assumed carelessness `` How was that ? '' 
remarked Nicholas . 
`` Look at me , '' said Nicholas , wishing to attract his full attention . 
`` No , '' said the poor creature , shaking his head , `` no , never . '' 
asked Nicholas , abruptly changing the theme . 
Nicholas marked him closely , and every word of this conversation remained indelibly fastened in his memory . 
They walked upon the rim of the Devil 's Punch Bowl , and Smike listened with greedy interest as Nicholas read the inscription upon the stone which , reared upon that wild spot , tells of a foul and treacherous murder committed there by night . 
`` The Devil 's Bowl , '' thought Nicholas , as he looked into the void , `` never held fitter liquor than that . '' 
`` Twelve miles , '' said Nicholas , leaning with both hands on his stick , and looking doubtfully at Smike . 
inquired Nicholas . 
As of course , being a landlord , he would say . 
`` I want to get on , '' observed Nicholas , hesitating . 
asked Nicholas , with the same uncertainty . 
And having said it he pulled up his apron , put his hands into his pockets , and taking a step or two outside the door , looked down the dark road with an assumption of great indifference . 
A glance at the toil-worn face of Smike determined Nicholas , so without any further consideration he made up his mind to stay where he was . 
The landlord led them into the kitchen , and as there was a good fire he remarked that it was very cold . 
If there had happened to be a bad one he would have observed that it was very warm . 
was Nicholas 's natural question . 
Nicholas suggested cold meat , but there was no cold meat -- poached eggs , but there were no eggs -- mutton chops , but there was n't a mutton chop within three miles , though there had been more last week than they knew what to do with , and would be an extraordinary supply the day after to-morrow . 
`` Then , '' said Nicholas , `` I must leave it entirely to you , as I would have done at first if you had allowed me . '' 
`` No , no , '' said Nicholas , detaining him . 
asked Nicholas , on whose mind , to tell the truth , the prospect of the savoury pudding was making some impression . 
The landlord hurried into the parlour without staying for further permission , nor did Nicholas strive to prevent him : wisely considering that supper under the circumstances was too serious a matter to trifle with . 
`` All right , '' he said in a low voice . 
There was no time to inquire to what this exclamation , which was delivered in a very rapturous tone , referred , for he had already thrown open the door of the room ; into which Nicholas , followed by Smike with the bundle on his shoulder -LRB- he carried it about with him as vigilantly as if it had been a purse of gold -RRB- , straightway repaired . 
Nicholas was prepared for something odd , but not for something quite so odd as the sight he encountered . 
Mr. Vincent Crummles received Nicholas with an inclination of the head , something between the courtesy of a Roman emperor and the nod of a pot companion ; and bade the landlord shut the door and begone . 
`` There 's a picture , '' said Mr. Crummles , motioning Nicholas not to advance and spoil it . 
Having addressed these words to the combatants , he saluted Nicholas , who then observed that the face of Mr. Crummles was quite proportionate in size to his body ; that he had a very full under-lip , a hoarse voice , as though he were in the habit of shouting very much , and very short black hair , shaved off nearly to the crown of his head -- to admit -LRB- as he afterwards learnt -RRB- of his more easily wearing character wigs of any shape or pattern . 
`` Very good , indeed -- capital , '' answered Nicholas . 
Nicholas assented -- observing , that if they were a little better match -- `` Match ! '' 
`` I mean if they were a little more of a size , '' said Nicholas , explaining himself . 
`` I see , '' replied Nicholas . 
Nicholas promised to do so if he could , and drawing a chair near the fire , fell into conversation with the manager at once . 
`` Ye-yes , '' said Nicholas . 
inquired the manager , who seemed to consider himself entitled to the same confidence as he had himself exhibited . 
`` No , '' replied Nicholas . 
Mr. Vincent Crummles gave a short dry cough , as much as to say , `` If you wo n't be communicative , you wo n't ; '' and took so many pinches of snuff from the piece of paper , one after another , that Nicholas quite wondered where it all went to . 
While he was thus engaged , Mr. Crummles looked from time to time with great interest at Smike , with whom he had appeared considerably struck from the first . 
`` Excuse my saying so , '' said the manager , leaning over to Nicholas , and sinking his voice , `` but -- what a capital countenance your friend has got ! '' 
said Nicholas , with a half smile , `` I wish it were a little more plump and less haggard . '' 
Only let him be tolerably well up in the Apothecary in Romeo and Juliet with the slightest possible dab of red on the tip of his nose , and he 'd be certain of three rounds the moment he put his head out of the practicable door in the front grooves O. P. '' `` You view him with a professional eye , '' said Nicholas , laughing . 
Nicholas therefore proposed that they should break up at once , but the manager would by no means hear of it , vowing that he had promised himself the pleasure of inviting his new acquaintance to share a bowl of punch , and that if he declined , he should deem it very unhandsome behaviour . 
Nicholas was not much disposed to sleep , being in truth too anxious , so after a little demur he accepted the offer , and having exchanged a shake of the hand with the young Crummleses , and the manager having on his part bestowed a most affectionate benediction on Smike , he sat himself down opposite to that gentleman by the fire-side to assist in emptying the bowl , which soon afterwards appeared , steaming in a manner which was quite exhilarating to behold , and sending forth a most grateful and inviting fragrance . 
But , despite the punch and the manager , who told a variety of stories , and smoked tobacco from a pipe , and inhaled it in the shape of snuff , with a most astonishing power , Nicholas was absent and dispirited . 
His thoughts were in his old home , and when they reverted to his present condition , the uncertainty of the morrow cast a gloom upon him , which his utmost efforts were unable to dispel . 
His attention wandered ; although he heard the manager 's voice , he was deaf to what he said , and when Mr. Vincent Crummles concluded the history of some long adventure with a loud laugh , and an inquiry what Nicholas would have done under the same circumstances , he was obliged to make the best apology in his power , and to confess his entire ignorance of all he had been talking about . 
Nicholas could not refrain from smiling at the abruptness of the question , but thinking it scarcely worth while to parry it , owned that he was under some apprehensions lest he might not succeed in the object which had brought him to that part of the country . 
`` Getting something to do which will keep me and my poor fellow-traveller in the common necessaries of life , '' said Nicholas . 
asked Mr. Vincent Crummles , melting the sealing-wax on the stem of his pipe in the candle , and rolling it out afresh with his little finger . 
`` There are many vessels leaving the port , I suppose , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` Salt meat and new rum ; pease-pudding and chaff-biscuits , '' said the manager , taking a whiff at his pipe to keep it alight , and returning to his work of embellishment . 
`` One may do worse than that , '' said Nicholas . 
asked Nicholas , alarmed by this prediction , and the confident tone in which it had been uttered . 
The countenance of Nicholas fell , and he gazed ruefully at the fire . 
`` No , '' said Nicholas , shaking his head . 
cried Nicholas , in a voice almost as loud . 
`` I do n't know anything about it , '' rejoined Nicholas , whose breath had been almost taken away by this sudden proposal . 
Nicholas thought of the small amount of small change there would remain in his pocket after paying the tavern bill : and he hesitated . 
`` Well , I think I could manage that department , '' said Nicholas . 
`` I am not quite so confident about that , '' replied Nicholas . 
said Nicholas . 
cried Nicholas . 
`` That is not one of my accomplishments , '' rejoined Nicholas . 
inquired Nicholas , after a few moments ' reflection . 
Nicholas shrugged his shoulders , but sheer destitution was before him ; and if he could summon fortitude to undergo the extremes of want and hardship , for what had he rescued his helpless charge if it were only to bear as hard a fate as that from which he had wrested him ? 
It was easy to think of seventy miles as nothing , when he was in the same town with the man who had treated him so ill and roused his bitterest thoughts ; but now it seemed far enough . 
What if he went abroad , and his mother or Kate were to die the while ? 
Without more deliberation he hastily declared that it was a bargain , and gave Mr. Vincent Crummles his hand upon it . 
As Mr. Crummles had a strange four-legged animal in the inn stables , which he called a pony , and a vehicle of unknown design , on which he bestowed the appellation of a four-wheeled phaeton , Nicholas proceeded on his journey next morning with greater case than he had expected : the manager and himself occupying the front seat , and the Master Crummleses and Smike being packed together behind , in company with a wicker basket defended from wet by a stout oilskin , in which were the broad-swords , pistols , pigtails , nautical costumes , and other professional necessaries of the aforesaid young gentlemen . 
`` He 's a good pony at bottom , '' said Mr. Crummles , turning to Nicholas . 
So , Nicholas merely observed , that he should n't wonder if he was . 
rejoined Nicholas . 
cried Nicholas . 
The descendant of this ill-starred animal requiring increased attention from Mr. Crummles as he progressed in his day 's work , that gentleman had very little time for conversation , and Nicholas was thus left at leisure to entertain himself with his own thoughts until they arrived at the drawbridge at Portsmouth , when Mr. Crummles pulled up . 
Thanking Mr. Vincent Crummles for his obliging offer , Nicholas jumped out , and , giving Smike his arm , accompanied the manager up High Street on their way to the theatre , feeling nervous and uncomfortable enough at the prospect of an immediate introduction to a scene so new to him . 
It was not very light , but Nicholas found himself close to the first entrance on the prompter 's side , among bare walls , dusty scenes , mildewed clouds , heavily daubed draperies , and dirty floors . 
He looked about him ; ceiling , pit , boxes , gallery , orchestra , fittings , and decorations of every kind , -- all looked coarse , cold , gloomy , and wretched . 
`` Why , so it is , '' replied Nicholas , hardly less surprised ; `` but not by day , Smike -- not by day . '' 
The manager 's voice recalled him from a more careful inspection of the building , to the opposite side of the proscenium , where , at a small mahogany table with rickety legs and of an oblong shape , sat a stout , portly female , apparently between forty and fifty , in a tarnished silk cloak , with her bonnet dangling by the strings in her hand , and her hair -LRB- of which she had a great quantity -RRB- braided in a large festoon over each temple . 
`` Mr. Johnson , '' said the manager -LRB- for Nicholas had given the name which Newman Noggs had bestowed upon him in his conversation with Mrs. Kenwigs -RRB- , `` let me introduce Mrs. Vincent Crummles . '' 
The lady shook Nicholas by the hand as she addressed him in these terms ; he saw it was a large one , but had not expected quite such an iron grip as that with which she honoured him . 
cried Nicholas , resolved to make the best of everything . 
inquired Nicholas . 
`` I am not surprised at that , '' said Nicholas ; `` she must be quite a natural genius . '' 
inquired Nicholas . 
said Nicholas , `` it 's extraordinary . '' 
Nicholas assented . 
said the actor , setting his teeth together , and drawing in his breath with a hissing sound , `` she ought n't to be in the provinces , she ought n't . '' 
`` Mr. Folair , '' said the manager , presenting him to Nicholas . 
`` An unworthy one , '' replied Nicholas . 
whispered the actor , drawing him away , as Crummles left them to speak to his wife . 
`` You seem to take it to heart , '' observed Nicholas , with a smile . 
`` If I may judge from what I have seen of you , '' said Nicholas , `` you must be a valuable member of the company . '' 
replied Mr. Folair , beating his slippers together , to knock the dust out ; `` I can come it pretty well -- nobody better perhaps in my own line -- but having such business as one gets here , is like putting lead on one 's feet instead of chalk , and dancing in fetters without the credit of it . 
`` A new appearance , that 's all , '' replied Mr. Folair , looking at Nicholas . 
`` I do not , indeed , '' replied Nicholas . 
There was Miss Snevellicci , who could do anything from a medley dance to Lady Macbeth , and always played some part in blue silk knee-smalls at her benefit , glancing from the depths of her coal-scuttle straw bonnet at Nicholas , and affecting to be absorbed in the recital of a diverting story to her friend Miss Ledrook , who had brought her work , and was making up a ruff in the most natural manner possible . 
Mr. Folair having obligingly confided these particulars to Nicholas , left him to mingle with his fellows ; the work of personal introduction was completed by Mr. Vincent Crummles , who publicly heralded the new actor as a prodigy of genius and learning . 
`` I beg you pardon , '' said Miss Snevellicci , sidling towards Nicholas , `` but did you ever play at Canterbury ? '' 
`` I never did , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` I see you now for the first time , '' rejoined Nicholas with all due gallantry . 
`` Not at all , '' said Nicholas . 
But Miss Ledrook would n't come to Miss Snevellicci , so Miss Snevellicci was obliged to go to Miss Ledrook , which she did in a skipping manner that was quite fascinating , and Miss Ledrook evidently joked Miss Snevellicci about being struck with Nicholas , for , after some playful whispering , Miss Snevellicci hit Miss Ledrook very hard on the backs of her hands , and retired up , in a state of pleasing confusion . 
said Nicholas , starting , `` I -- '' `` On Monday morning , '' repeated Mr. Crummles , raising his voice , to drown the unfortunate Mr. Johnson 's remonstrance ; `` that 'll do , ladies and gentlemen . '' 
The ladies and gentlemen required no second notice to quit , and in a few minutes the theatre was deserted , save by the Crummles ' family , Nicholas , and Smike . 
`` Upon my word , '' said Nicholas , taking the manager aside , `` I do n't think I can be ready by Monday . '' 
`` But really I ca n't , '' returned Nicholas ; `` my invention is not accustomed to these demands , or possibly I might produce -- '' `` Invention ! 
`` Very good , '' said the manager , opening the table-drawer , and giving a roll of paper from it to Nicholas . 
Nicholas smiled , and pocketed the play . 
Nicholas could not help thinking that for the first week it would be an uncommon convenience to have a turn-up bedstead in the pit , but he merely remarked that he had not turned his thoughts that way . 
The offer was not to be refused : Nicholas and Mr. Crummles gave Mrs. Crummles an arm each , and walked up the street in stately array . 
`` You are welcome , '' said Mrs. Crummles , turning round to Nicholas when they reached the bow-windowed front room on the first floor . 
Nicholas bowed his acknowledgments , and was unfeignedly glad to see the cloth laid . 
`` You are very good , '' replied Nicholas , `` I shall do it ample justice . '' 
Nicholas and the infant phenomenon opposed each other at the pembroke-table , and Smike and the master Crummleses dined on the sofa bedstead . 
asked Nicholas . 
`` So do I , '' said Nicholas ; `` if they have no relish for theatrical entertainments , properly conducted . '' 
cried Nicholas . 
inquired Nicholas . 
Not feeling quite so sure of that , Nicholas thought it best to hold his peace . 
`` You are very good , '' replied Nicholas hastily ; `` but I think perhaps it would be better if I had somebody of my own size at first , in case I should turn out awkward . 
`` Certainly , '' replied Nicholas : devoutly hoping that it would be a very long time before he was honoured with this distinction . 
With these hasty general directions Mr. Crummles thrust a number of little books into the faltering hands of Nicholas , and bidding his eldest son go with him and show him where lodgings were to be had , shook him by the hand and wished him good night . 
There is no lack of comfortable furnished apartments in Portsmouth , and no difficulty in finding some that are proportionate to very slender finances ; but the former were too good , and the latter too bad , and they went into so many house , and came out unsuited , that Nicholas seriously began to think he should be obliged to ask permission to spend the night in the theatre , after all . 
These Nicholas engaged , only too happy to have escaped any request for payment of a week 's rent beforehand . 
`` There , lay down our personal property , Smike , '' he said , after showing young Crummles down stairs . 
Nicholas was up betimes in the morning ; but he had scarcely begun to dress , notwithstanding , when he heard footsteps ascending the stairs , and was presently saluted by the voices of Mr. Folair the pantomimist , and Mr. Lenville , the tragedian . 
thought Nicholas ; they have come to breakfast , I suppose . 
The gentlemen entreated him not to hurry himself ; and to beguile the interval , had a fencing bout with their walking-sticks on the very small landing-place , to the unspeakable discomposure of all the other lodgers down stairs . 
`` Here , come in , '' said Nicholas , when he had completed his toilet . 
`` For a man at all particular in such matters it might be a trifle too snug , '' said Nicholas ; `` for , although it is undoubtedly a great convenience to be able to reach anything you want from the ceiling or the floor , or either side of the room , without having to move from your chair , still these advantages can only be had in an apartment of the most limited size . '' 
`` I glanced at the French copy last night , '' said Nicholas . 
asked Mr. Lenville , poking the struggling fire with his walking-stick , and afterwards wiping it on the skirt of his coat . 
`` You turn your wife and child out of doors , '' said Nicholas ; `` and in a fit of rage and jealousy stab your eldest son in the library . '' 
`` After which , '' said Nicholas , `` you are troubled with remorse till the last act , and then you make up your mind to destroy yourself . 
`` You pause , '' said Nicholas ; `` you recollect to have heard a clock strike ten in your infancy . 
`` Let me see , '' said Nicholas . 
`` Why -- yes , '' replied Nicholas ; `` that is the course of the piece . '' 
`` Upon my word I do n't see how it 's to be done , '' rejoined Nicholas . 
Profiting by these and other lessons , which were the result of the personal experience of the two actors , Nicholas willingly gave them the best breakfast he could , and when he at length got rid of them applied himself to his task , by no means displeased to find that it was so much easier than he had at first supposed . 
He worked very hard all day , and did not leave his room until the evening , when he went down to the theatre , whither Smike had repaired before him to go on with another gentleman as a general rebellion . 
Nicholas was standing with his back to the curtain , now contemplating the first scene , which was a Gothic archway , about two feet shorter than Mr. Crummles , through which that gentleman was to make his first entrance , and now listening to a couple of people who were cracking nuts in the gallery , wondering whether they made the whole audience , when the manager himself walked familiarly up and accosted him . 
`` No , '' replied Nicholas , `` not yet . 
said Nicholas ; `` a family , I suppose ? '' 
It would have been difficult for any party , family or otherwise , to have visited the theatre on a night when the phenomenon did not play , inasmuch as she always sustained one , and not uncommonly two or three , characters every night ; but Nicholas , sympathising with the feelings of a father , refrained from hinting at this trifling circumstance , and Mr. Crummles continued to talk uninterrupted by him . 
`` I wonder you allow so many , '' observed Nicholas . 
If Nicholas had been astonished at the alteration for the better which the gentlemen displayed , the transformation of the ladies was still more extraordinary . 
asked Mr. Crummles , when Nicholas went round to the stage again . 
`` I think it was very capital , indeed , '' replied Nicholas ; `` Miss Snevellicci in particular was uncommonly good . '' 
asked Nicholas . 
I understand , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` Yours , you mean , '' said Nicholas . 
`` I do n't know about ` long before , ''' replied Nicholas ; `` but by that time I think I can undertake to be ready . '' 
said Nicholas . 
rejoined Nicholas . 
`` Oh dear me , '' said Nicholas , with an air of very strong objection . 
`` I am very sorry to throw a damp upon the prospects of anybody , and more especially a lady , '' replied Nicholas ; `` but really I must decidedly object to making one of the canvassing party . '' 
`` He has some objection , my dear , '' replied Mr. Crummles , looking at Nicholas . 
`` It is not in my nature , '' said Nicholas , moved by these appeals , `` to resist any entreaty , unless it is to do something positively wrong ; and , beyond a feeling of pride , I know nothing which should prevent my doing this . 
It was arranged that Nicholas should call upon her at her lodgings at eleven next morning , and soon afterwards they parted : he to return home to his authorship ; Miss Snevellicci to dress for the after-piece ; and the disinterested manager and his wife to discuss the probable gains of the forthcoming bespeak , of which they were to have two-thirds of the profits by solemn treaty of agreement . 
At the stipulated hour next morning , Nicholas repaired to the lodgings of Miss Snevellicci , which were in a place called Lombard-street , at the house of a tailor . 
said Nicholas , when the door was opened . 
said Nicholas . 
Nicholas followed the young lady , and was shown into a small apartment on the first floor , communicating with a back room ; in which , as he judged from a certain half-subdued clinking sound as of cups and saucers , Miss Snevellicci was then taking her breakfast in bed . 
As there were not many objects of interest outside the window , Nicholas looked about the room with more curiosity than he might otherwise have bestowed upon it . 
Nicholas had read a great many of these scraps , and was absorbed in a circumstantial and melancholy account of the train of events which had led to Miss Snevellicci 's spraining her ancle by slipping on a piece of orange-peel flung by a monster in human form , -LRB- so the paper said , -RRB- upon the stage at Winchester , -- when that young lady herself , attired in the coal-scuttle bonnet and walking-dress complete , tripped into the room , with a thousand apologies for having detained him so long after the appointed time . 
`` Such a fate is almost to be envied , '' returned Nicholas , `` but I am very sorry to hear it nevertheless . '' 
`` If it be flattery to admire your charms and accomplishments , '' rejoined Nicholas , laying his hand upon the scrap-book , `` you have better specimens of it here . '' 
`` I thought you had kindly left it here , on purpose for me to read , '' said Nicholas . 
However it was impossible to scold her , as she was the manager 's daughter , so Nicholas took it all in perfect good humour , and walked on with Miss Snevellicci , arm in arm on one side , and the offending infant on the other . 
Miss Snevellicci 's modest double-knock was answered by a foot-boy , who , in reply to her inquiry whether Mrs. Curdle was at home , opened his eyes very wide , grinned very much , and said he did n't know , but he 'd inquire . 
With this , he showed them into a parlour where he kept them waiting , until the two women-servants had repaired thither , under false pretences , to see the play-actors , and having compared notes with them in the passage , and joined in a vast quantity of whispering and giggling , he at length went up stairs with Miss Snevellicci 's name . 
`` The original piece is a French one , '' said Nicholas . 
`` Might I ask you , '' said Nicholas , hesitating between the respect he ought to assume , and his love of the whimsical , `` might I ask you what the unities are ? '' 
`` Perfectly , '' replied Nicholas . 
Nicholas murmured a jest about his being an author , and thought it best not to go through the form of feeling in his own pockets at all . 
`` Odd people those , '' said Nicholas , when they got clear of the house . 
`` I assure you , '' said Miss Snevellicci , taking his arm , `` that I think myself very lucky they did not owe all the money instead of being sixpence short . 
Nicholas worked away at the piece , which was speedily put into rehearsal , and then worked away at his own part , which he studied with great perseverance and acted -- as the whole company said -- to perfection . 
But when Nicholas came on for his crack scene with Mrs. Crummles , what a clapping of hands there was ! 
When Mrs. Crummles -LRB- who was his unworthy mother -RRB- , sneered , and called him `` presumptuous boy , '' and he defied her , what a tumult of applause came on ! 
When he quarrelled with the other gentleman about the young lady , and producing a case of pistols , said , that if he was a gentleman , he would fight him in that drawing-room , till the furniture was sprinkled with the blood of one , if not of two -- how boxes , pit , and gallery joined in one most vigorous cheer ! 
When he called his mother names , because she would n't give up the young lady 's property , and she relenting , caused him to relent likewise , and fall down on one knee and ask her blessing , how the ladies in the audience sobbed ! 
When he was hid behind the curtain in the dark , and the wicked relation poked a sharp sword in every direction , save where his legs were plainly visible , what a thrill of anxious fear ran through the house ! 
His air , his figure , his walk , his look , everything he said or did , was the subject of commendation . 
There was a round of applause every time he spoke . 
In short , the success both of new piece and new actor was complete , and when Miss Snevellicci was called for at the end of the play , Nicholas led her on , and divided the applause . 
Nor were these the only tokens of extraordinary success ; for on the succeeding Saturday Nicholas received , by favour of the indefatigable Mrs. Grudden , no less a sum than thirty shillings ; besides which substantial reward , he enjoyed considerable fame and honour , having a presentation copy of Mr. Curdle 's pamphlet forwarded to the theatre , with that gentleman 's own autograph -LRB- in itself an inestimable treasure -RRB- on the fly-leaf , accompanied with a note , containing many expressions of approval , and an unsolicited assurance that Mr. Curdle would be very happy to read Shakspeare to him for three hours every morning before breakfast during his stay in the town . 
rejoined Nicholas . 
suggested Nicholas . 
`` Very true , '' said Nicholas . 
`` I should say she would look very well in the bills , '' said Nicholas . 
said Nicholas , `` I know that lady . '' 
asked Nicholas . 
asked Nicholas , smiling . 
Nicholas ventured to insinuate that he thought he did . 
cried Nicholas . 
said Nicholas . 
Nicholas left them to enjoy their mirth together , and walked to his lodgings , wondering very much what mystery connected with Miss Petowker could provoke such merriment , and pondering still more on the extreme surprise with which that lady would regard his sudden enlistment in a profession of which she was such a distinguished and brilliant ornament . 
But in this latter respect he was mistaken ; for -- whether Mr. Vincent Crummles had paved the way , or Miss Petowker had some special reason for treating him with even more than her usual amiability -- their meeting at the theatre next day was more like that of two dear friends who had been inseparable from infancy , than a recognition passing between a lady and gentleman who had only met some half-dozen times , and then by mere chance . 
Nay , Miss Petowker even whispered that she had wholly dropped the Kenwigses in her conversations with the manager 's family , and had represented herself as having encountered Mr. Johnson in the very first and most fashionable circles ; and on Nicholas receiving this intelligence with unfeigned surprise , she added with a sweet glance that she had a claim on his good-nature now , and might tax it before long . 
Nicholas had the honour of playing in a slight piece with Miss Petowker that night , and could not but observe that the warmth of her reception was mainly attributable to a most persevering umbrella in the upper boxes ; he saw , too , that the enchanting actress cast many sweet looks towards the quarter whence these sounds proceeded , and that every time she did so the umbrella broke out afresh . 
Once he thought that a peculiarly shaped hat in the same corner was not wholly unknown to him , but being occupied with his share of the stage business he bestowed no great attention upon this circumstance , and it had quite vanished from his memory by the time he reached home . 
He had just sat down to supper with Smike , when one of the people of the house came outside the door , and announced that a gentleman below stairs wished to speak to Mr. Johnson . 
`` Well , if he does , you must tell him to come up , that 's all I know , '' replied Nicholas . 
His fellow-lodger looked at the cold meat , in silent calculation of the quantity that would be left for dinner next day , and put back a slice he had cut for himself , in order that the visitor 's encroachments might be less formidable in their effects . 
`` It is not anybody who has been here before , '' said Nicholas , `` for he is tumbling up every stair . 
It was , indeed , the collector of water-rates who , regarding Nicholas with a fixed look and immoveable countenance , shook hands with most portentous solemnity and sat himself down in a seat by the chimneycorner . 
asked Nicholas . 
`` So far as I could judge , being on the stage , '' replied Nicholas , `` I thought it very agreeable . '' 
said Nicholas , a little surprised at these symptoms of ecstatic approbation . 
Nicholas had much ado to prevent himself from laughing ; not trusting himself to speak , he merely nodded in accordance with Mr. Lillyvick 's nods , and remained silent . 
Nicholas looked good-humouredly at Smike , who , taking the hint , disappeared . 
asked Nicholas . 
`` You ought to know , certainly , '' thought Nicholas ; `` but whether you do or not , is another question . '' 
`` O , yes , '' replied Nicholas : `` it 's very true , no doubt . '' 
asked Nicholas . 
`` Why , then , he is a lucky fellow , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` That 's what I say , '' retorted the collector , patting him benignantly on the side of the head with his umbrella ; `` just what I say : Henrietta Petowker , the talented Henrietta Petowker , has a fortune in herself , and I am going to -- . '' 
suggested Nicholas . 
`` I congratulate you , Sir , '' said Nicholas . 
`` Thank you , Sir , '' replied the collector , buttoning his waistcoat . 
observed Nicholas . 
asked Nicholas . 
said Nicholas . 
`` To be sure , '' said Nicholas . 
`` Yes , yes , I understand , '' replied Nicholas . 
said Nicholas . 
said Nicholas . 
`` Oh no , not at all , '' replied Nicholas , with an awkward attempt to convert a laugh into a cough . 
cried Nicholas . 
`` You may safely depend upon me , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` I have not the least doubt of it , '' rejoined Nicholas . 
With these words , Mr. Lillyvick , whose manner had exhibited through the whole of this interview a most extraordinary compound of precipitation , hesitation , confidence and doubt ; fondness , misgiving , meanness , and self-importance , turned his back upon the room , and left Nicholas to enjoy a laugh by himself if he felt so disposed . 
Without stopping to enquire whether the intervening day appeared to Nicholas to consist of the usual number of hours of the ordinary length , it may be remarked that , to the parties more directly interested in the forthcoming ceremony , it passed with great rapidity , insomuch that when Miss Petowker awoke on the succeeding morning in the chamber of Miss Snevellicci , she declared that nothing should ever persuade her that that really was the day which was to behold a change in her condition . 
And here they found Nicholas awaiting their arrival . 
Regardless of this circumstance , however , Mrs. Lillyvick refused to be comforted until the belligerents had passed their words that the dispute should be carried no further , which , after a sufficient show of reluctance , they did , and from that time Mr. Folair sat in moody silence , contenting himself with pinching Nicholas 's leg when anything was said , and so expressing his contempt both for the speaker and the sentiments to which he gave utterance . 
There were a great number of speeches made , some by Nicholas , and some by Crummles , and some by the collector ; two by the master Crummleses in returning thanks for themselves , and one by the phenomenon on behalf of the bridesmaids , at which Mrs. Crummles shed tears . 
As there was no performance that night , Mr. Crummles declared his intention of keeping it up till everything to drink was disposed of ; but Nicholas having to play Romeo for the first time on the ensuing evening , contrived to slip away in the midst of a temporary confusion , occasioned by the unexpected development of strong symptoms of inebriety in the conduct of Mrs. Grudden . 
To this act of desertion he was led , not only by his own inclinations , but by his anxiety on account of Smike , who , having to sustain the character of the Apothecary , had been as yet wholly unable to get any more of the part into his head than the general idea that he was very hungry , which -- perhaps from old recollections -- he had acquired with great aptitude . 
`` I do n't know what 's to be done , Smike , '' said Nicholas , laying down the book . 
inquired Nicholas . 
exclaimed Nicholas . 
''' repeated Nicholas . 
Thus they continued to ask each other who called so loud , over and over and over again ; and when Smike had that by heart , Nicholas went to another sentence , and then to two at a time , and then to three , and so on , until at midnight poor Smike found to his unspeakable joy that he really began to remember something about the text . 
As soon as he began to acquire the words pretty freely , Nicholas showed him how he must come in with both hands spread out upon his stomach , and how he must occasionally rub it , in compliance with the established from by which people on the stage always denote that they want something to eat . 
As soon as they were dressed , and at every interval when he was not upon the stage , Nicholas renewed his instructions . 
He 'll cut up so rough Nickleby , at our talking together without him . 
`` He bites , '' thought Ralph . 
`` He bites . '' 
`` A ma-an may look at a pretty woman without harm , may n't he ? 
`` No , no , '' said Ralph ; `` it was all his lordship . 
I did n't travel about in omnibuses , when my poor dear Nicholas was alive , brother-in-law . 
-- On Tuesday last , at St. George 's , Hanover Square , by the Right Reverend the Bishop of Llandaff , Sir Mulberry Hawk , of Mulberry Castle , North Wales , to Catherine , only daughter of the late Nicholas Nickleby , Esquire , of Devonshire . 
said Mrs. Nickleby , considering ; `` yes , it must have been a post-chaise , because I recollect remarking at the time that the driver had a green shade over his left eye ; -- in a post-chaise from Birmingham , and after we had seen Shakspeare 's tomb and birth-place , we went back to the inn there , where we slept that night , and I recollect that all night long I dreamt of nothing but a black gentlemen , at full length , in plaster-of-Paris , with a lay down collar tied with two tassels , leaning against a post and thinking ; and when I woke in the morning and described him to Mr. Nickleby , he said it was Shakspeare just as he had been when he was alive , which was very curious indeed . 
`` Yes , I am positive about that , because I recollect I was in the family way with my son Nicholas at the time , and I had been very much frightened by an Italian image boy that very morning . 
`` There is some of that boy 's blood in you , I see , '' said Ralph , speaking in his harshest tones , as something in the flashing eye reminded him of Nicholas at their last meeting . 
The unexpected success and favour with which his experiment at Portsmouth had been received , induced Mr. Crummles to prolong his stay in that town for a fortnight beyond the period he had originally assigned for the duration of his visit , during which time Nicholas personated a vast variety of characters with undiminished success , and attracted so many people to the theatre who had never been seen there before , that a benefit was considered by the manager a very promising speculation . 
Nicholas assenting to the terms proposed , the benefit was had , and by it he realized no less a sum than twenty pounds . 
Possessed of this unexpected wealth , his first act was to inclose to honest John Browdie the amount of his friendly loan , which he accompanied with many expressions of gratitude and esteem , and many cordial wishes for his matrimonial happiness . 
rejoined Nicholas , with assumed gaiety , for the confession would have made the boy miserable all night ; `` I was thinking about my sister , Smike . '' 
`` Why , so they say , '' replied Nicholas , laughing , `` only a great deal handsomer . '' 
`` Anybody who did n't know you as well as I do , my dear fellow , would say you were an accomplished courtier , '' said Nicholas . 
`` To be sure , '' cried Nicholas ; `` we shall all be together one of these days -- when we are rich , Smike . '' 
`` Why , it is a long story , '' replied Nicholas , `` and one you would have some difficulty in comprehending , I fear . 
`` Well , it is owing to him , '' returned Nicholas . 
He had muttered it over to himself some twenty times , when a loud knock at the door disturbed him from his occupation . 
Before he could open it , Mr. Folair , the pantomimist , thrust in his head . 
inquired Nicholas . 
Mr. Folair paused with a most impressive look , and diving into the hat before noticed , drew from thence a small piece of whity-brown paper curiously folded , whence he brought forth a note , which it had served to keep clean , and handing it over to Nicholas , said -- `` Have the goodness to read that , sir . '' 
Nicholas , in a state of much amazement , took the note and broke the seal , glancing at Mr. Folair as he did so , who , knitting his brow and pursing up his mouth with great dignity , was sitting with his eyes steadily fixed upon the ceiling . 
It was directed to blank Johnson Esq. , by favour of Augustus Folair Esq. ; and the astonishment of Nicholas was in no degree lessened , when he found it to be couched in the following laconic terms : `` Mr. Lenville presents his kind regards to Mr. Johnson , and will feel obliged if he will inform him at what hour to-morrow morning it will be most convenient to him to meet Mr. L. at the Theatre , for the purpose of having his nose pulled in the presence of the company . 
Indignant as he was at this impertinence , there was something so exquisitely absurd in such a cartel of defiance , that Nicholas was obliged to bite his lip and read the note over two or three times before he could muster sufficient gravity and sternness to address the hostile messenger , who had not taken his eyes from the ceiling , nor altered the expression of his face in the slightest degree . 
he asked , at length . 
asked Nicholas , tearing it into very little pieces , and jerking it in a shower towards the messenger . 
Mr. Folair turned his head -- now ornamented with several fragments of the note -- towards Nicholas , and with the same imperturbable dignity briefly replied `` No . '' 
`` Then , '' said Nicholas , taking up the tall hat and tossing it towards the door , `` you had better follow that article of your dress , sir , or you may find yourself very disagreeably deceived , and that within a dozen seconds . '' 
`` Leave the room , '' returned Nicholas . 
cried Nicholas , advancing towards him . 
`` You had better be careful how you indulge in such jokes again , '' said Nicholas , `` or you may find an allusion to pulling noses rather a dangerous reminder for the subject of your facetiousness . 
Nicholas could not repress a smile at the odd figure before him , which , at all times more calculated to provoke mirth than anger , was especially so at that moment , when with one knee upon the ground Mr. Folair twirled his old hat round upon his hand , and affected the extremest agony lest any of the nap should have been knocked off -- an ornament which , it is almost superfluous to say , it had not boasted for many months . 
`` Come , sir , '' said Nicholas , laughing in spite of himself . 
asked Nicholas . 
`` Very considerate , '' remarked Nicholas . 
`` Oh certainly , '' rejoined Nicholas ; `` but suppose I were to turn the tables , and pull his nose , what then ? 
rejoined Nicholas . 
As Mr. Folair was pretty well known among his fellow-actors for a man who delighted in mischief , and was by no means scrupulous , Nicholas had not much doubt but that he had secretly prompted the tragedian in the course he had taken , and , moreover , that he would have carried his mission with a very high hand if he had not been disconcerted by the very unexpected demonstrations with which it had been received . 
It was not worth his while to be serious with him , however , so he dismissed the pantomimist , with a gentle hint that if he offended again it would be under the penalty of a broken head ; and Mr. Folair , taking the caution in exceedingly good part , walked away to confer with his principal , and give such an account of his proceedings as he might think best calculated to carry on the joke . 
He had no doubt reported that Nicholas was in a state of extreme bodily fear ; for when that young gentleman walked with much deliberation down to the theatre next morning at the usual hour , he found all the company assembled in evident expectation , and Mr. Lenville , with his severest stage face , sitting majestically on a table , whistling defiance . 
Now the ladies were on the side of Nicholas , and the gentleman -LRB- being jealous -RRB- were on the side of the disappointed tragedian ; so that the latter formed a little group about the redoubtable Mr. Lenville , and the former looked on at a little distance in some trepidation and anxiety . 
On Nicholas stopping to salute them , Mr. Lenville laughed a scornful laugh , and made some general remark touching the natural history of puppies . 
said Nicholas , looking quietly round , `` are you there '' `` Slave ! '' 
returned Mr. Lenville , flourishing his right arm , and approaching Nicholas with a theatrical stride . 
But somehow he appeared just at that moment a little startled , as if Nicholas did not look quite so frightened as he had expected , and came all at once to an awkward halt , at which the assembled ladies burst into a shrill laugh . 
Nicholas laughed in very unexpected enjoyment of this performance ; and the ladies , by way of encouragement , laughed louder than before ; whereat Mr. Lenville assumed his bitterest smile , and expressed his opinion that they were `` minions . '' 
said the tragedian , taking an upward look at Nicholas , beginning at his boots and ending at the crown of his head , and then a downward one , beginning at the crown of his head , and ending at his boots -- which two looks , as everybody knows , express defiance on the stage . 
Thus speaking , Mr. Lenville folded his arms , and treated Nicholas to that expression of face with which , in melo-dramatic performances , he was in the habit of regarding the tyrannical kings when they said , ` Away with him to the deepest dungeon beneath the castle moat ; ' and which , accompanied with a little jingling of fetters , had been known to produce great effects in its time . 
Whether it was the absence of the fetters or not , it made no very deep impression on Mr. Lenville 's adversary , however , but rather seemed to increase the good humour expressed in his countenance ; in which stage of the contest , one or two gentlemen , who had come out expressly to witness the pulling of Nicholas 's nose , grew impatient , murmuring that if it were to be done at all it had better be done at once , and that if Mr. Lenville did n't mean to do it he had better say so , and not keep them waiting there . 
Thus urged , the tragedian adjusted the cuff of his right coat sleeve for the performance of the operation , and walked in a very stately manner up to Nicholas , who suffered him to approach to within the requisite distance , and then , without the smallest discomposure , knocked him down . 
Before the discomfited tragedian could raise his head from the boards , Mrs. Lenville -LRB- who , as has been before hinted , was in an interesting state -RRB- rushed from the rear rank of ladies , and uttering a piercing scream threw herself upon the body . 
`` Come , '' said Nicholas , nodding his head , `` apologize for the insolent note you wrote to me last night , and waste no more time in talking . '' 
said Nicholas . 
`` But only to save her , -- for a time will come -- '' `` Very good , '' said Nicholas ; `` I hope Mrs. Lenville may have a good one ; and when it does come , and you are a father , you shall retract it if you have the courage . 
With this parting advice Nicholas picked up Mr. Lenville 's ash stick which had flown out of his hand , and breaking it in half , threw him the pieces and withdrew , bowing slightly to the spectators as he walked out . 
The profoundest deference was paid to Nicholas that night , and the people who had been most anxious to have his nose pulled in the morning , embraced occasions of taking him aside , and telling him with great feeling , how very friendly they took it that he should have treated that Lenville so properly , who was a most unbearable fellow , and on whom they had all , by a remarkable coincidence , at one time or other contemplated the infliction of condign punishment , which they had only been restrained from administering by considerations of mercy ; indeed , to judge from the invariable termination of all these stories , there never was such a charitable and kind-hearted set of people as the male members of Mr. Crummles 's company . 
Nicholas bore his triumph , as he had his success in the little world of the theatre , with the utmost moderation and good humour . 
`` Well , Smike , '' said Nicholas when the first piece was over , and he had almost finished dressing to go home , `` is there any letter yet ? '' 
`` From Newman Noggs , '' said Nicholas , casting his eye upon the cramped direction ; `` it 's no easy matter to make his writing out . 
Newman took upon himself to send back the ten pounds , observing that he had ascertained that neither Mrs. Nickleby nor Kate was in actual want of money at the moment , and that a time might shortly come when Nicholas might want it more . 
He entreated him not to be alarmed at what he was about to say ; -- there was no bad news -- they were in good health -- but he thought circumstances might occur , or were occurring , which would render it absolutely necessary that Kate should have her brother 's protection , and if so , Newman said , he would write to him to that effect , either by the next post or the next but one . 
Nicholas read this passage very often , and the more he thought of it the more he began to fear some treachery upon the part of Ralph Once or twice he felt tempted to repair to London at all hazards without an hour 's delay , but a little reflection assured him that if such a step were necessary , Newman would have spoken out and told him so at once . 
`` At all events I should prepare them here for the possibility of my going away suddenly , '' said Nicholas ; `` I should lose no time in doing that . '' 
As the thought occurred to him , he took up his hat and hurried to the green-room . 
`` Well , Mr. Johnson , '' said Mrs. Crummles , who was seated there in full regal costume , with the phenomenon as the maiden in her maternal arms , `` next week for Ryde , then for Winchester , then for -- '' `` I have some reason to fear , '' interrupted Nicholas , `` that before you leave here my career with you will have closed . '' 
Nicholas briefly said that he feared it would be so , although he could not yet speak with any degree of certainty ; and getting away as soon as he could , went home to con Newman 's letter once more , and speculate upon it afresh . 
Mr. Vincent Crummles was no sooner acquainted with the public announcement which Nicholas had made relative to the probability of his shortly ceasing to be a member of the company , than he evinced many tokens of grief and consternation ; and , in the extremity of his despair , even held out certain vague promises of a speedy improvement not only in the amount of his regular salary , but also in the contingent emoluments appertaining to his authorship . 
Finding Nicholas bent upon quitting the society -- for he had now determined that , even if no further tidings came from Newman , he would , at all hazards , case his mind by repairing to London and ascertaining the exact position of his sister -- Mr. Crummles was fain to content himself by calculating the chances of his coming back again , and taking prompt and energetic measures to make the most of him before he went away . 
`` But perhaps it may not be my last appearance , you know , '' said Nicholas . 
inquired Nicholas , smiling . 
`` No , '' replied Nicholas , `` I could n't indeed . '' 
`` That it would be rather expensive , '' replied Nicholas , drily . 
As Nicholas appeared by no means impressed with the solemnity of the proposed effect , but , on the contrary , received the proposition in a most irreverent manner and laughed at it very heartily , Mr. Crummles abandoned the project in its birth , and gloomily observed that they must make up the best bill they could with combats and hornpipes , and so stick to the legitimate drama . 
sighed Nicholas , as he threw himself back in the prompter 's chair , after telegraphing the needful directions to Smike , who had been playing a meagre tailor in the interlude , with one skirt to his coat , and a little pocket handkerchief with a large hole in it , and a woollen nightcap , and a red nose , and other distinctive marks peculiar to tailors on the stage . 
`` It was an ungallant speech , certainly , '' said Nicholas , looking up to see who the speaker was , and recognising Miss Snevellicci . 
`` I 'll tell him presently , for his gratification , that you said so , '' returned Nicholas . 
`` I do n't know , though , that I should much mind his knowing my opinion of him ; with some other people , indeed , it might be -- '' Here Miss Snevellicci stopped , as though waiting to be questioned , but no questioning came , for Nicholas was thinking about more serious matters . 
`` He well deserves all the kindness I can show him , and a great deal more , '' said Nicholas . 
`` God help him , and those who have made him so , he is indeed , '' rejoined Nicholas , shaking his head . 
asked Nicholas , turning round with some abruptness . 
it is pretty plain , I should think , that he has not the intellect to have been about anything of much importance to them or anybody else , '' said Nicholas . 
`` Ay , '' rejoined the actor , contemplating the effect of his face in a lamp reflector , `` but that involves the whole question , you know . '' 
asked Nicholas . 
said Nicholas , contemptuously . 
`` Why , you know , Lenville says -- '' `` I thought I had silenced him effectually , '' interrupted Nicholas , reddening . 
said Nicholas , forcing a smile . 
cried Nicholas again . 
Uttering in a loud voice such of the latter allusions as were complimentary to the unconscious phenomenon , and giving the rest in a confidential `` aside '' to Nicholas , Mr. Folair followed the ascent of the curtain with his eyes , regarded with a sneer the reception of Miss Crummles as the Maiden , and , falling back a step or two to advance with the better effect , uttered a preliminary howl , and `` went on '' chattering his teeth and brandishing his tin tomahawk as the Indian Savage . 
thought Nicholas . 
`` Not I , '' replied Nicholas . 
But here , '' added Nicholas , as Smike approached , `` here comes the subject of a portion of their good-nature , so let he and I say good night together . '' 
`` Oh , I 'm sure , '' returned Miss Ledrook , with considerable vivacity , `` if you ca n't persuade him -- '' Miss Ledrook said no more , but intimated , by a dexterous playfulness , that if Miss Snevellicci could n't persuade him , nobody could . 
`` Surely , '' returned Nicholas , `` I can require no possible inducement beyond your invitation . '' 
Miss Ledrook made no answer , but taking Smike 's arm in hers , left her friend and Nicholas to follow at their pleasure ; which it pleased them , or rather pleased Nicholas who had no great fancy for a tête-à-tête under the circumstances , to do at once . 
Nicholas would insist upon carrying the basket , and Miss Snevellicci would mist upon carrying it herself , which gave rise to a struggle , in which Nicholas captured the basket and the band-box likewise . 
Then Nicholas said , that he wondered what could possibly be inside the basket , and attempted to peep in , whereat Miss Snevellicci screamed , and declared that if she thought he had seen , she was sure she should faint away . 
This declaration was followed by a similar attempt on the band-box , and similar demonstrations on the part of Miss Ledrook , and then both ladies vowed that they would n't move a step further until Nicholas had promised that he would n't offer to peep again . 
At last Nicholas pledged himself to betray no further curiosity , and they walked on : both ladies giggling very much , and declaring that they never had seen such a wicked creature in all their born days -- never . 
He had a very broad chest had Miss Snevellicci 's papa , and he wore a threadbare blue dress coat buttoned with gilt buttons tight across it ; and he no sooner saw Nicholas come into the room , than he whipped the two forefingers of his right hand in between the two centre buttons , and sticking his other arm gracefully a-kimbo seemed to say , `` Now , here I am , my buck , and what have you got to say to me ? '' 
To these good people Nicholas was presented with much formality . 
`` No , really I never did , '' replied Nicholas . 
interrupted Nicholas . 
`` Well , Mr. Lillyvick , '' said Nicholas , `` and how are you ? '' 
said Nicholas , laughing . 
`` How do you think , '' whispered the collector , drawing him aside , `` How do you think she looks to-night ? '' 
`` As handsome as ever , '' replied Nicholas , glancing at the late Miss Petowker . 
`` You 're a lucky man , '' said Nicholas . 
With such inquiries , and many more such , Mr. Lillyvick jerked his elbow into Nicholas 's side , and chuckled till his face became quite purple in the attempt to keep down his satisfaction . 
Two additional chairs were brought in from the bedroom ; Miss Snevellicci sat at the head of the table , and Mr. Lillyvick at the foot ; and Nicholas had not only the honour of sitting next Miss Snevellicci , but of having Miss Snevellicci 's mama on his right hand , and Miss Snevellicci 's papa over the way . 
In short , he was the hero of the feast ; and when the table was cleared and something warm introduced , Miss Snevellicci 's papa got up and proposed his health in a speech containing such affecting allusions to his coming departure , that Miss Snevellicci wept , and was compelled to retire into the bedroom . 
Miss Ledrook eked out this speech with so many mysterious nods and frowns before she shut the door again , that a profound silence came upon all the company , during which Miss Snevellicci 's papa looked very big indeed -- several sizes larger than life -- at everybody in turn , but particularly at Nicholas , and kept on perpetually emptying his tumbler and filling it again , until the ladies returned in a cluster , with Miss Snevellicci among them . 
cried Nicholas , diving under the table , dragging up the collector by main force , and thrusting him , all doubled up , into a chair , as if he had been a stuffed figure . 
While Nicholas raised up the collector , Smike had performed the same office for Mr. Snevellicci , who now regarded his late adversary in tipsy amazement . 
exclaimed Mrs. Lillyvick in answer to the inquiring look of Nicholas . 
These reminiscences appeared to awaken no very torturing pangs in the breast of Mrs. Snevellicci , who was sufficiently occupied in descanting to Nicholas upon the manifold accomplishments and merits of her daughter . 
Nor was the young lady herself at all behind-hand in displaying her choicest allurements ; but these , heightened as they were by the artifices of Miss Ledrook , had no effect whatever in increasing the attentions of Nicholas , who , with the precedent of Miss Squeers still fresh in his memory steadily resisted every fascination , and placed so strict a guard upon his behaviour that when he had taken his leave the ladies were unanimous in pronouncing him quite a monster of insensibility . 
Nicholas was somewhat at a loss , on entering the theatre at night , to account for the unusual perturbation and excitement visible in the countenances of all the company , but he was not long in doubt as to the cause , for before he could make any inquiry respecting it Mr. Crummles approached , and in an agitated tone of voice , informed him that there was a London manager in the boxes . 
`` It 's the phenomenon , depend upon it , Sir , '' said Crummles , dragging Nicholas to the little hole in the curtain that he might look through at the London manager . 
Nicholas replied , that it certainly was ; and Mr. Vincent Crummles taking several huge pinches of snuff to compose his feelings , hurried away to tell Mrs. Crummles that he had quite settled the only terms that could be accepted , and had resolved not to abate one single farthing . 
All this was the occasion of much amusement to Nicholas , whose only feeling upon the subject was one of sincere satisfaction that the great man went away before he appeared . 
With the post next morning came a letter from Newman Noggs , very inky , very short , very dirty , very small , and very mysterious , urging Nicholas to return to London instantly ; not to lose an instant ; to be there that night if possible . 
`` I will , '' said Nicholas . 
So saying , he took his hat , and hurrying away to the lodgings of Mr. Crummles , applied his hand to the knocker with such hearty good-will , that he awakened that gentleman , who was still in bed , and caused Mr. Bulph the pilot to take his morning 's pipe very nearly out of his mouth in the extremity of his surprise . 
The door being opened , Nicholas ran up-stairs without any ceremony , and bursting into the darkened sitting-room on the one pair front , found that the two Master Crummleses had sprung out of the sofa-bedstead and were putting on their clothes with great rapidity , under the impression that it was the middle of the night , and the next house was on fire . 
Before he could undeceive them , Mr. Crummles came down in a flannel-gown and nightcap ; and to him Nicholas briefly explained that circumstances had occurred which rendered it necessary for him to repair to London immediately . 
`` So good bye , '' said Nicholas ; `` good bye , good bye . '' 
He was half-way down stairs before Mr. Crummles had sufficiently recovered his surprise to gasp out something about the posters . 
`` I ca n't help it , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` Not an hour -- not a minute , '' replied Nicholas , impatiently . 
asked the manager , following him down to the door . 
`` I could n't stop if it were to prolong my life a score of years , '' rejoined Nicholas . 
Accompanying these words with an impatient stamp upon the ground , he tore himself from the manager 's detaining grasp , and darting rapidly down the street was out of sight in an instant . 
Smike had made good speed while Nicholas was absent , and with his help everything was soon ready for their departure . 
There were yet a few minutes to spare , so , having secured the places , Nicholas hurried into a slopseller 's hard by , and bought Smike a great-coat . 
It would have been rather large for a substantial yeoman , but the shopman averring -LRB- and with considerable truth -RRB- that it was a most uncommon fit , Nicholas would have purchased it in his impatience if it had been twice the size . 
As they hurried up to the coach , which was now in the open street and all ready for starting , Nicholas was not a little astonished to find himself suddenly clutched in a close and violent embrace , which nearly took him off his legs ; nor was his amazement at all lessened by hearing the voice of Mr. Crummles exclaim `` It is he -- my friend , my friend ! '' 
`` Bless my heart , '' cried Nicholas , struggling in the manager 's arms , `` what are you about ? '' 
The manager made no reply , but strained him to his breast again , exclaiming as he did so , `` Farewell , my noble , my lion-hearted boy ! '' 
In fact , Mr. Crummles , who could never lose any opportunity for professional display , had turned out for the express purpose of taking a public farewell of Nicholas ; and to render it the more imposing , he was now , to that young gentleman 's most profound annoyance , inflicting upon him a rapid succession of stage embraces , which , as everybody knows , are performed by the embracer 's laying his or her chin on the shoulder of the object of affection , and looking over it . 
The lookers-on laughed very heartily , and as it was as well to put a good face upon the matter , Nicholas laughed too when he had succeeded in disengaging himself ; and rescuing the astonished Smike , climbed up to the coach roof after him , and kissed his hand in honour of the absent Mrs. Crummles as they rolled away . 
Notwithstanding the deadly hatred which Ralph felt towards Nicholas , and the bitter contempt with which he sneered at poor Mrs. Nickleby -- notwithstanding the baseness with which he had behaved , and was then behaving , and would behave again if his interest prompted him , towards Kate herself -- still there was , strange though it may seem , something humanizing and even gentle in his thoughts at that moment . 
It took some little time to reassure Miss La Creevy , who had been almost frightened out of her senses by this remarkable demonstration ; but that done , Newman faithfully related all that had passed in the interview between Kate and her uncle , prefacing his narrative with a statement of his previous suspicious on the subject , and his reasons for forming them ; and concluding with a communication of the step he had taken in secretly writing to Nicholas . 
''' Miss La Creevy could not suppress a small shriek on hearing this , and instantly set about extorting a solemn pledge from Newman that he would use his utmost endeavours to pacify the wrath of Nicholas ; which , after some demur , was conceded . 
They then consulted together on the safest and surest mode of communicating to him the circumstances which had rendered his presence necessary . 
`` He must have time to cool before he can possibly do any thing , '' said Miss La Creevy . 
He must not be told until late at night . '' 
`` But he 'll be in town between six and seven this evening , '' replied Newman . 
`` I ca n't keep it from him when he asks me . '' 
cried Nicholas , throwing back his great-coat and rousing Smike from a long nap . 
`` And yet you came along at a tidy pace too , '' observed the coachman , looking over his shoulder at Nicholas with no very pleasant expression of countenance . 
`` Well , '' remarked the coachman , `` if the way seemed long with such cattle as you 've sat behind , you must have been most uncommon anxious ; '' and so saying , he let out his whip-lash and touched up a little boy on the calves of his legs by way of emphasis . 
Nicholas engaged beds for himself and Smike at the inn where the coach stopped , and repaired , without the delay of another moment , to the lodgings of Newman Noggs ; for his anxiety and impatience had increased with every succeeding minute , and were almost beyond controul . 
inquired Nicholas , tapping at the door of Newman 's front neighbour . 
I never could have believed -- '' `` Pardon me , '' interposed Nicholas . 
In proof of his extreme readiness to exert himself for the general entertainment , Mr. Crowl drew a chair to the table as he spoke , and helping himself plentifully to the cold meat , invited Nicholas and Smike to follow his example . 
Disappointed and uneasy , Nicholas could touch no food , so , after he had seen Smike comfortably established at the table , he walked out -LRB- despite a great many dissuasions uttered by Mr. Crowl with his mouth full -RRB- , and left Smike to detain Newman in case he returned first . 
As Miss La Creevy had anticipated , Nicholas betook himself straight to her house . 
Finding her from home , he debated within himself for some time whether he should go to his mother 's residence and so compromise her with Ralph Nickleby . 
With his heart beating violently , and apprehending he knew not what disaster , Nicholas returned to where he had left Smike . 
Nicholas tried to remain quietly where he was , but he felt so nervous and excited that he could not sit still . 
He seemed to be losing time unless he was moving . 
It was an absurd fancy , he knew , but he was wholly unable to resist it . 
So , he took up his hat and rambled out again . 
He strolled westward this time , pacing the long streets with hurried footsteps , and agitated by a thousand misgivings and apprehensions which he could not overcome . 
He passed into Hyde Park , now silent and deserted , and increased his rate of walking as if in the hope of leaving his thoughts behind . 
They crowded upon him more thickly , however , now there were no passing objects to attract his attention ; and the one idea was always uppermost , that some stroke of illfortune must have occurred so calamitous in its nature that all were fearful of disclosing it to him . 
Nicholas walked till he was weary , but was not one bit the wiser ; and indeed he came out of the Park at last a great deal more confused and perplexed than when he went in . 
He had taken scarcely any thing to eat or drink since early in the morning , and felt quite worn out and exhausted . 
As he returned languidly towards the point from which he had started , along one of the thoroughfares which lie between Park Lane and Bond Street , he passed a handsome hotel , before which he stopped mechanically . 
`` An expensive place , I dare say , '' thought Nicholas ; `` but a pint of wine and a biscuit are no great debauch wherever they are had . 
He walked on a few steps , but looking wistfully down the long vista of gas-lamps before him , and thinking how long it would take to reach the end of it -- and being besides in that kind of mood in which a man is most disposed to yield to his first impulse -- and being , besides , strongly attracted to the hotel , in part by curiosity , and in part by some odd mixture of feelings which he would have been troubled to define -- Nicholas turned back again , and walked into the coffee-room . 
Observing all this in the first comprehensive glance with which a stranger surveys a place that is new to him , Nicholas sat himself down in the box next to the noisy party , with his back towards them , and postponing his order for a pint of claret until such time as the waiter and one of the elderly gentlemen should have settled a disputed question relative to the price of an item in the bill of fare , took up a newspaper and began to read . 
He had not read twenty lines , and was in truth half-dozing , when he was startled by the mention of his sister 's name . 
`` Little Kate Nickleby '' were the words that caught his ear . 
He raised his head in amazement , and as he did so , saw by the reflection in the opposite glass , that two of the party behind him had risen and were standing before the fire . 
`` It must have come from one of them , '' thought Nicholas . 
He waited to hear more with a countenance of some indignation , for the tone of speech had been anything but respectful , and the appearance of the individual whom he presumed to have been the speaker was coarse and swaggering . 
This person -- so Nicholas observed in the same glance at the mirror which had enabled him to see his face -- was standing with his back to the fire conversing with a younger man , who stood with his back to the company , wore his hat , and was adjusting his shirt collar by the aid of the glass . 
They spoke in whispers , now and then bursting into a loud laugh , but Nicholas could catch no repetition of the words , nor anything sounding at all like the words , which had attracted his attention . 
Still there was no reference made to anybody with whom he was acquainted , and Nicholas became persuaded that his excited fancy had either imagined the sounds altogether , or converted some other words into the name which had been so much in his thoughts . 
`` It is remarkable too , '' thought Nicholas : `` if it had been ` Kate ' or ` Kate Nickleby , ' I should not have been so much surprised ; but ` little Kate Nickleby ! 
cried a voice behind him . 
`` I was right , '' muttered Nicholas as the paper fell from his hand . 
Keenly alive to the tone and manner of this slight and careless mention of his sister 's name in a public place , Nicholas fired at once , but he kept himself quiet by a great effort , and did not even turn his head . 
`` She 's a true Nickleby -- a worthy imitator of her old uncle Ralph -- she hangs back to be more sought after -- so does he ; nothing to be got out of Ralph unless you follow him up , and then the money comes doubly welcome , and the bargain doubly hard , for you 're impatient and he is n't . 
Nicholas was in a perfect agony as the two elderly gentlemen opposite , rose one after the other and went away , lest they should be the means of his losing one word of what was said . 
Nicholas turned burning hot with rage , but he commanded himself for the moment , and waited to hear more . 
What he heard need not be repeated here . 
Suffice it that as the wine went round he heard enough to acquaint him with the characters and designs of those whose conversation he overheard ; to possess him with the full extent of Ralph 's villany , and the real reason of his own presence being required in London . 
To him then Nicholas addressed himself when he was sufficiently composed to stand before the party , and force the words from his parched and scorching throat . 
`` Let me have a word with you , Sir , '' said Nicholas . 
retorted Sir Mulberry Hawk , eyeing him in disdainful surprise . 
`` I said with you , '' replied Nicholas , speaking with great difficulty , for his passion choked him . 
exclaimed Sir Mulberry , raising his wine-glass to his lips , and looking round upon his friends . 
said Nicholas , sternly . 
Sir Mulberry merely paused in the act of drinking , and bade him either name his business or leave the table . 
Nicholas drew a card from his pocket , and threw it before him . 
`` There , Sir , '' said Nicholas ; `` my business you will guess . '' 
A momentary expression of astonishment , not unmixed with some confusion , appeared in the face of Sir Mulberry as he read the name ; but he subdued it in an instant , and tossing the card to Lord Verisopht , who sat opposite , drew a toothpick from a glass before him , and very leisurely applied it to his mouth . 
said Nicholas , turning paler as his passion kindled . 
`` If there is a gentleman in this party , '' said Nicholas , looking round and scarcely able to make his white lips form the words , `` he will acquaint me with the name and residence of this man . '' 
`` I am the brother of the young lady who has been the subject of conversation here , '' said Nicholas . 
Sir Mulberry looked at him contemptuously , and , addressing his companions , said -- `` Let the fellow talk , I have nothing serious to say to boys of his station ; and his pretty sister shall save him a broken head , if he talks till midnight . '' 
said Nicholas , `` and shall be proclaimed so to the world . 
Sir Mulberry 's hand involuntarily closed upon the decanter , and be seemed for an instant about to launch it at the head of his challenge . 
But he only filled his glass , and laughed in derision . 
Nicholas sat himself down , directly opposite to the party , and , summoning the waiter , paid his bill . 
he inquired of the man in as audible voice ; pointing out Sir Mulberry as he put the question . 
`` Then you 'll find it there , '' said Sir Mulberry , throwing Nicholas 's card towards him ; `` and when you have made yourself master of it , put that piece of pasteboard in the fire -- do you hear me ? '' 
The man grinned , and , looking doubtfully at Nicholas , compromised the matter by sticking the card in the chimney-glass . 
Having done this , he retired . 
Nicholas folded his arms , and , biting his lip , sat perfectly quiet ; sufficiently expressing by his manner , however , a firm determination to carry his threat of following Sir Mulberry home , into steady execution . 
It was evident from the tone in which the younger member of the party appeared to remonstrate with his friend , that he objected to this course of proceeding , and urged him to comply with the request which Nicholas had made . 
Sir Mulberry , however , who was not quite sober , and who was in a sullen and dogged state of obstinacy , soon silenced the representations of his weak young friend , and further seemed -- as if to save himself from a repetition of them -- to insist on being left alone . 
However this might have been , the young gentleman and the two who had always spoken together , actually rose to go after a short interval , and presently retired , leaving their friend alone with Nicholas . 
It will be very readily supposed that to one in the condition of Nicholas , the minutes appeared to move with leaden wings indeed , and that their progress did not seem the more rapid from the monotonous ticking of a French clock , or the shrill sound of its little bell which told the quarters . 
But there he sat ; and in his old seat on the opposite side of the room reclined Sir Mulberry Hawk , with his legs upon the cushion , and his handkerchief thrown negligently over his knees : finishing his magnum of claret with the utmost coolness and indifference . 
Thus they remained in perfect silence for upwards of an hour -- Nicholas would have thought for three hours at least , but that the little bell had only gone four times . 
Twice or thrice he looked angrily and impatiently round ; but there was Sir Mulberry in the same attitude , putting his glass to his lips from time to time , and looking vacantly at the wall , as if he were wholly ignorant of the presence of any living person . 
At length he yawned , stretched himself , and rose ; walked coolly to the glass , and having surveyed himself therein , turned round and honoured Nicholas with a long and contemptuous stare . 
Nicholas stared again with right good-will ; Sir Mulberry shrugged his shoulders , smiled slightly , rang the bell , and ordered the waiter to help him on with his great-coat . 
Sir Mulberry took several turns up and down the room , whistling carelessly all the time : stopped to finish the last glass of claret which he had poured out a few minutes before , walked again , put on his hat adjusted it by the glass , drew on his gloves , and , at last , walked slowly out . 
Nicholas , who had been fuming and chafing until he was nearly wild , darted from his seat , and followed him -- so closely , that before the door had swung upon its hinges after Sir Mulberry 's passing out , they stood side by side in the street together . 
asked Nicholas , in a suppressed voice . 
`` If you trust to your horse 's speed , you will find yourself mistaken , '' said Nicholas . 
`` You are a villain , '' said Nicholas . 
`` I am the son of a country gentleman , '' returned Nicholas , `` your equal in birth and education , and your superior I trust in everything besides . 
To you -- no , '' returned Sir Mulberry , taking the reins in his hand . 
`` You had better not , '' cried Nicholas , springing on the step as Sir Mulberry jumped in , and catching at the reins . 
The animal reared and plunged as though it would dash the carriage into a thousand pieces , but Nicholas , blind to all sense of danger , and conscious of nothing but his fury , still maintained his place and his hold upon the reins . 
In less time than the quickest tongue could tell it , these words were exchanged , and Sir Mulberry shortening his whip , applied it furiously to the head and shoulders of Nicholas . 
It was broken in the struggle ; Nicholas gained the heavy handle , and with it laid open one side of his antagonist 's face from the eye to the lip . 
He saw the gash ; knew that the mare had darted off at a wild mad gallop ; a hundred lights danced in his eyes , and he felt himself flung violently upon the ground . 
He was giddy and sick , but staggered to his feet directly , roused by the loud shouts of the men who were tearing up the street , and screaming to those ahead to clear the way . 
He was conscious of a torrent of people rushing quickly by -- looking up , could discern the cabriolet whirled along the foot pavement with frightful rapidity -- then heard a loud cry , the smashing of some heavy body , and the breaking of glass -- and then the crowd closed in in the distance , and he could see or hear no more . 
The general attention had been entirely directed from himself to the person in the carriage , and he was quite alone . 
Rightly judging that under such circumstances it would be madness to follow , he turned down a bye-street in search of the nearest coach-stand , finding after a minute or two that he was reeling like a drunken man , and aware for the first time of a stream of blood that was trickling down his face and breast . 
Smike and Newman Noggs , who in his impatience had returned home long before the time agreed upon , sat before the fire , listening anxiously to every footstep on the stairs , and the slightest sound that stirred within the house , for the approach of Nicholas . 
He had promised to be back in an hour ; and his prolonged absence began to excite considerable alarm in the minds of both , as was abundantly testified by the blank looks they cast upon each other at every new disappointment . 
At length a coach was heard to stop , and Newman ran out to light Nicholas up the stairs . 
`` Do n't be alarmed , '' said Nicholas , hurrying him back into the room . 
cried Newman , passing his hands hastily over the back and arms of Nicholas , as if to assure himself that he had broken no bones . 
`` I know all , '' interrupted Nicholas ; `` I have heard a part , and guessed the rest . 
`` I have no hurts to see to , beyond a little soreness and stiffness that will soon pass off , '' said Nicholas , seating himself with some difficulty . 
Come , '' said Nicholas , giving his hand to Noggs . 
Nicholas nodded his head from time to time , as it corroborated the particulars he had already gleaned ; but he fixed his eyes upon the fire , and did not look round once . 
His recital ended , Newman insisted upon his young friend 's stripping off his coat , and allowing whatever injuries he had received to be properly tended . 
Nicholas , after some opposition , at length consented , and while some pretty severe bruises on his arms and shoulders were being rubbed with oil and vinegar , and various other efficacious remedies which Newman borrowed from the different lodgers , related in what manner they had been received . 
The recital made a strong impression on the warm imagination of Newman ; for when Nicholas came to the violent part of the quarrel , he rubbed so hard , as to occasion him the most exquisite pain , which he would not have exhibited , however , for the world , it being perfectly clear that , for the moment , Newman was operating on Sir Mulberry Hawk , and had quite lost sight of his real patient . 
This martyrdom over , Nicholas arranged with Newman that while he was other wise occupied next morning , arrangements should be made for his mother 's immediately quitting her present residence , and also for despatching Miss La Creevy to break the intelligence to her . 
He then wrapped himself in Smike 's great-coat , and repaired to the inn where they were to pass the night , and where -LRB- after writing a few lines to Ralph , the delivery of which was to be entrusted to Newman next day , -RRB- he endeavoured to obtain the repose of which he stood so much in need . 
The remark may possibly apply to injuries received in other kinds of violent excitement ; certain it is , that although Nicholas experienced some pain on first awakening next morning , he sprung out of bed as the clock struck seven , with very little difficulty , and was soon as much on the alert as if nothing had occurred . 
Merely looking into Smike 's room , and telling him that Newman Noggs would call for him very shortly , Nicholas descended into the street , and calling a hackney-coach , bade the man drive to Mrs. Wititterly 's , according to the direction which Newman had given him on the previous night . 
Nicholas began to fear that no one might be stirring at that early hour , when he was relieved by the sight of a female servant , employed in cleaning the door-steps . 
`` Say to Miss Nickleby that her brother is here , and in great haste to see her , '' said Nicholas . 
The plated buttons disappeared with an alacrity most unusual to them , and Nicholas paced the room in a state of feverish agitation which made the delay even of a minute insupportable . 
He soon heard a light footstep which he well knew , and before he could advance to meet her , Kate had fallen on his neck and burst into tears . 
`` My darling girl , '' said Nicholas as he embraced her . 
Do not leave me here , dear Nicholas , or I shall die of a broken heart . '' 
`` I will leave you nowhere , '' answered Nicholas -- `` never again . 
Kate , '' he cried , moved in spite of himself as he folded her to his heart . 
`` Nicholas -- dear Nicholas -- how can you give way thus ? '' 
cried Nicholas , clenching his fist and suddenly changing his tone and manner , `` it sets my whole blood on fire again . 
Therefore -- '' `` Therefore , '' interposed Nicholas , `` the quarter 's salary must be lost , Sir . 
`` If you please , '' said Nicholas . 
And once more offering a hurried apology for so sudden a departure , he hurried Kate into the vehicle , and bade the man drive with all speed into the City . 
Nicholas sent Kate up-stairs a few minutes before him , that his unlooked-for appearance might not alarm his mother , and when the way had been paved , presented himself with much duty and affection . 
Wherefore , although the good lady had been subjected to a full hour 's preparation by little Miss La Creevy , and was now addressed in most lucid terms both by Nicholas and his sister , she was in a state of singular bewilderment and confusion , and could by no means be made to comprehend the necessity of such hurried proceedings . 
`` Why do n't you ask your uncle , my dear Nicholas , what he can possibly mean by it ? '' 
`` My dear mother , '' returned Nicholas , `` the time for talking has gone by . 
There is but one step to take , and that is to cast him off with the scorn and indignation he deserves . 
Your own honour and good name demand that , after the discovery of his vile proceedings , you should not be beholden to him one hour , even for the shelter of these bare walls . '' 
`` To be sure , '' said Mrs. Nickleby , crying bitterly , `` he is a brute , a monster ; and the walls are very bare , and want painting too , and I have had this ceiling white-washed at the expense of eighteen pence , which is a very distressing thing , considering that it is so much gone into your uncle 's pocket . 
`` Nor I , nor anybody else , '' said Nicholas . 
`` To think that that Sir Mulberry Hawk should be such an abandoned wretch as Miss La Creevy says he is , Nicholas , my dear ; when I was congratulating myself every day on his being an admirer of our dear Kate 's , and thinking what a thing it would be for the family if he was to become connected with us , and use his interest to get you some profitable government place . 
As Nicholas and his sister were by this time compelled to superintend the removal of the few articles of furniture , Miss La Creevy devoted herself to the consolation of the matron , and observed with great kindness of manner that she must really make an effort , and cheer up . 
`` They will laugh no more at us , I take it , '' said Nicholas , advancing . 
At last Nicholas , in a condition of absolute despair , ordered the coachman to drive away , and in the unexpected jerk of a sudden starting , Mrs. Nickleby lost a shilling among the straw , which fortunately confined her attention to the coach until it was too late to remember any thing else . 
Having seen every thing safely out , discharged the servant , and locked the door , Nicholas jumped into a cabriolet and drove to a bye place near Golden Square where he had appointed to meet Noggs ; and so quickly had every thing been done , that it was barely half past since when he reached the place of meeting . 
`` Here is the letter for Ralph , '' said Nicholas , `` and here the key . 
Newman shook his head . 
`` I will ascertain that myself without loss of time , '' said Nicholas . 
Nicholas waved his hand carelessly , and concealing the indisposition he really felt , now that the excitement which had sustained him was over , took a hurried farewell of Newman Noggs , and left him . 
`` His extravagance , Mr. Nickleby , '' said Madame Mantalini , addressing herself to Ralph , who leant against his easy-chair with his hands behind him , and regarded the amiable couple with a smile of the supremest and most unmitigated contempt , -- `` His extravagance is beyond all bounds . '' 
He took some papers of value out of my desk this morning without asking my permission . '' 
`` I am obliged , '' continued Madame Mantalini , `` since our late misfortunes , to pay Miss Knag a great deal of money for having her name in the business , and I really can not afford to encourage him in all his wastefulness . 
As I have no doubt that he came straight here , Mr. Nickleby , to convert the papers I have spoken of , into money , and as you have assisted us very often before , and are very much connected with us in these kind of matters , I wish you to know the determination at which his conduct has compelled me to arrive . '' 
`` I have made up my mind , '' said Madame Mantalini , as tokens of impatience manifested themselves in Ralph 's countenance , `` to allowance him . '' 
`` To put him , '' said Madame Mantalini , looking at Ralph , and prudently abstaining from the slightest glance at her husband , lest his many graces should induce her to falter in her resolution , `` to put him upon a fixed allowance ; and I say that if he has a hundred and twenty pounds a-year for his clothes and pocket-money , he may consider himself a very fortunate man . '' 
I am sure we have detained him much too long already . '' 
`` Demmit , Nickleby , you 're as great a tiger as he is , '' said Mantalini , alarmed at these demonstrations . 
You 're enough to frighten my life and soul out of her little delicious wits -- flying all at once into such a blazing , ravaging , raging passion as never was , demmit . '' 
`` Charity , to be sure , '' returned Squeers , rubbing his knees , `` and when he begins to be useful in a certain sort of a way , this young scoundrel of a Nickleby comes and carries him off . 
But the most vexatious and aggeravating part of the whole affair is , '' said Squeers , dropping his voice , and drawing his chair still closer to Ralph , `` that some questions have been asked about him at last -- not of me , but in a round-about kind of way of people in our village . 
such things have happened in our business before -- a present besides for putting him out to a farmer or sending him to sea , so that he might never turn up to disgrace his parents , supposing him to be a natural boy , as many of our boys are -- damme , if that villain of a Nickleby do n't collar him in open day , and commit as good as highway robbery upon my pocket . '' 
To wound him through his own affections or fancies -- . 
If I can strike him through this boy -- '' `` Strike him how you like , Sir , '' interrupted Squeers , `` only hit him hard enough , that 's all -- and with that , I 'll say good morning . 
In exact proportion as Ralph Nickleby became conscious of a struggling and lingering regard for Kate , had his detestation of Nicholas augmented . 
But fortunately for Nicholas , Ralph Nickleby did not ; and although he cast about all that day , and kept a corner of his brain working on the one anxious subject through all the round of schemes and business that came with it , night found him at last still harping on the same theme , and still pursuing the same unprofitable reflections . 
He had been occupied in tearing Nicholas 's letter into atoms , and as he spoke he scattered it in a tiny shower about him . 
Having established his mother and sister in the apartments of the kind-hearted miniature painter , and ascertained that Sir Mulberry Hawk was in no danger of losing his life , Nicholas turned his thoughts to poor Smike , who , after breakfasting with Newman Noggs , had remained in a disconsolate state at that worthy creature 's lodgings , waiting with much anxiety for further intelligence of his protector . 
`` As he will be one of our own little household , wherever we live , or whatever fortune is in reserve for us , '' thought Nicholas , `` I must present the poor fellow in due form . 
Nicholas said `` they , '' but his misgivings were confined to one person . 
He was sure of Kate , but he knew his mother 's peculiarities , and was not quite so certain that Smike would find favour in the eyes of Mrs. Nickleby . 
`` However , '' thought Nicholas , as he departed on his benevolent errand ; `` she can not fail to become attached to him when she knows what a devoted creature he is , and as she must quickly make the discovery , his probation will be a short one . '' 
replied Nicholas gaily . 
`` Ay , '' rejoined Nicholas , taking his arm . 
asked Nicholas , looking kindly in his face . 
said Nicholas . 
`` You are a foolish , silly creature , '' said Nicholas cheerfully . 
`` When I talk of homes , '' pursued Nicholas , `` I talk of mine -- which is yours of course . 
So saying , Nicholas took his companion by the arm , and saying a great deal more to the same purpose , and pointing out various things to amuse and interest him as they went along , led the way to Miss La Creevy 's house . 
`` And this , Kate , '' said Nicholas , entering the room where his sister sat alone , `` is the faithful friend and affectionate fellow-traveller whom I prepared you to receive . '' 
Poor Smike was bashful and awkward and frightened enough at first , but Kate advanced towards him so kindly , and said in such a sweet voice , how anxious she had been to see him after all her brother had told her , and how much she had to thank him for having comforted Nicholas so greatly in their very trying reverses , that he began to be very doubtful whether he should shed tears or not , and became still more flurried . 
However , he managed to say , in a broken voice , that Nicholas was his only friend , and that he would lay down his life to help him ; and Kate , although she was so kind and considerate , seemed to be so wholly unconscious of his distress and embarrassment , that he recovered almost immediately and felt quite at home . 
And Miss La Creevy was very kind too , and wonderfully talkative : -- not to Smike , for that would have made him uneasy at first , but to Nicholas and his sister . 
At length the door opened again , and a lady in mourning came in ; and Nicholas kissing the lady in mourning affectionately , and calling her his mother , led her towards the chair from which Smike had risen when she entered the room . 
`` You are always kind-hearted , and anxious to help the oppressed , my dear mother , '' said Nicholas , `` so you will be favourably disposed towards him , I know . '' 
`` I am sure , my dear Nicholas , '' replied Mrs. Nickleby , looking very hard at her new friend , and bending to him with something more of majesty than the occasion seemed to require , -- `` I am sure any friend of yours has , as indeed he naturally ought to have , and must have , of course , you know -- a great claim upon me , and of course , it is a very great pleasure to me to be introduced to anybody you take an interest in -- there can be no doubt about that ; none at all ; not the least in the world , '' said Mrs. Nickleby . 
`` At the same time I must say , Nicholas , my dear , as I used to say to your poor dear papa , when he could bring gentlemen home to dinner , and there was nothing in the house , that if he had come the day before yesterday -- no , I do n't mean the day before yesterday now ; I should have said , perhaps , the year before last -- we should have been better able to entertain him . '' 
`` Because if he is , Kate , my dear , '' said Mrs. Nickleby , `` I do n't see that it 's possible for him to sleep anywhere , and that 's that truth . '' 
Of course , I understand that , my love , without your telling me ; and I said the same to Nicholas , and I am very much pleased . 
You did n't tell me , Nicholas , my dear , '' added Mrs. Nickleby , turning round with an air of less reserve than she had before assumed , `` what your friend 's name is . '' 
`` His name , mother , '' replied Nicholas , `` is Smike . '' 
exclaimed Nicholas , running to support her . 
`` Mr. Smike is from Yorkshire , Nicholas , my dear ? '' 
`` Certainly , mother , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` I see you have not forgotten his melancholy history . '' 
said the good lady , addressing herself to him . 
`` My dear mother , '' reasoned Nicholas , `` Do you suppose that the unfortunate outcast of a Yorkshire school was likely to receive many cards of invitation from the nobility and gentry in the neighbourhood ? '' 
Having put down Nicholas in this triumphant manner , Mrs. Nickleby was suddenly seized with a forgetfulness of Smike 's real name , and an irresistible tendency to call him Mr. Slammons ; which circumstance she attributed to the remarkable similarity of the two names in point of sound , both beginning with an S , and moreover being spelt with an M. But , whatever doubt there might be on this point , there was none as to his being a most excellent listener ; which circumstance had considerable influence in placing them on the very best terms , and in inducing Mrs. Nickleby to express the highest opinion of his general deportment and disposition . 
Thus the little circle remained , on the most amicable and agreeable footing , until the Monday morning , when Nicholas withdrew himself from it for a short time , seriously to reflect upon the state of his affairs , and to determine , if he could , upon some course of life , which would enable him to support those who were so entirely dependent upon his exertions . 
`` It wo n't do , '' said Nicholas , shaking his head ; `` I must try something else . '' 
With no greater experience of the world than he had acquired for himself in his short trials ; with a sufficient share of headlong rashness and precipitation , -LRB- qualities not altogether unnatural at his time of life -RRB- with a very slender stock of money , and a still more scanty stock of friends what could he do ? 
`` Egad '' said Nicholas , `` I 'll try that Register Office again . '' 
He smiled at himself as he walked away with a quick step ; for , as instant before , he had been internally blaming his own precipitation . 
He did not laugh himself out of the intention , however , for on he went ; picturing to himself , as he approached the place , all kinds of splendid possibilities , and impossibilities too , for that matter , and thinking himself , perhaps with good reason , very fortunate to be endowed with so buoyant and sanguine a temperament . 
The office looked just the same as when he had left it last , and , indeed , with one or two exceptions , there seemed to be the very same placards in the window that he had seen before . 
As Nicholas stopped to look in at the window , an old gentleman happened to stop too , and Nicholas carrying his eye along the windowpanes from left to right in search of some capital-text placard , which should be applicable to his own case , caught sight of this old gentleman 's figure , and instinctively withdrew his eyes from the window , to observe the same more closely . 
He was a sturdy old fellow in a broad-skirted blue coat , made pretty large , to fit easily , and with no particular waist ; his bulky legs clothed in drab breeches and high gaiters , and his head protected by a lowcrowned broad-brimmed white hat , such as a wealthy grazier might wear . 
He wore his coat buttoned ; and his dimpled double-chin rested in the folds of a white neckerchief -- not one of your stiff starched apoplectic cravats , but a good easy old-fashioned white neckcloth that a man might go to bed in and be none the worse for it . 
But what principally attracted the attention of Nicholas , was the old gentleman 's eye , -- never was such a clear , twinkling , honest , merry , happy eye , as that . 
And there he stood , looking a little upward , with one hand thrust into the breast of his coat , and the other playing with his old-fashioned gold watch-chain : his head thrown a little on one side , and his hat a little more on one side than his head , -LRB- but that was evidently accident ; not his ordinary way of wearing it , -RRB- with such a pleasant smile playing about his mouth , and such a comical expression of mingled slyness , simplicity , kind-heartedness , and good-humour , lighting up his jolly old face , that Nicholas would have been content to have stood there and looked at him until evening , and to have forgotten meanwhile that there was such a thing as a soured mind or a crabbed countenance to be met with in the whole wide world . 
But , even a very remote approach to this gratification was not to be made , for although he seemed quite unconscious of having been the subject of observation , he looked casually at Nicholas ; and the latter , fearful of giving offence , resumed his scrutiny of the window instantly . 
Still , the old gentleman stood there , glancing from placard to placard , and Nicholas could not forbear raising his eyes to his face again . 
Grafted upon the quaintness and oddity of his appearance , was something so indescribably engaging and bespeaking so much worth , and there were so many little lights hovering about the corners of his mouth and eyes , that it was not a mere amusement , but a positive pleasure and delight to look at him . 
This being the case , it is no wonder that the old man caught Nicholas in the fact more than once . 
At such times , Nicholas coloured and looked embarrassed , for the truth is , that he had begun to wonder whether the stranger could by any possibility be looking for a clerk or secretary ; and thinking this , he felt as if the old gentleman must know it . 
As the stranger was moving away , Nicholas caught his eye again , and , in the awkwardness of the moment , stammered out an apology . 
This was said in such a hearty tone , and the voice was so exactly what it should have been from such a speaker , and there was such a cordiality in the manner , that Nicholas was emboldened to speak again . 
`` A great many opportunities here , sir , '' he said , half-smiling as he motioned towards the window . 
He moved away as he said this ; but seeing that Nicholas was about to speak , good-naturedly slackened his pace , as if he were unwilling to cut him short . 
After a little of that hesitation which may be sometimes observed between two people in the street who have exchanged a nod , and are both uncertain whether they shall turn back and speak , or not , Nicholas found himself at the old man 's side . 
`` Merely that I almost hoped -- I mean to say , thought -- you had some object in consulting those advertisements , '' said Nicholas . 
returned the old man , looking slyly at Nicholas . 
Nicholas shook his head . 
laughed the old gentleman , rubbing his hands and wrists as if he were washing them . 
`` If you had thought so at last , too , sir , you would not have been far from the truth , '' rejoined Nicholas . 
cried the old man , surveying him from head to foot . 
Nicholas bowed , and bidding him good morning , turned upon his heel . 
`` Merely that your kind face and manner -- both so unlike any I have ever seen -- tempted me into an avowal , which , to any other stranger in this wilderness of London , I should not have dreamt of making , '' returned Nicholas . 
and he raised his hat from his head , and looked very grave . 
said the old man , laying his hand on the shoulder of Nicholas , and walking him up the street . 
laying his finger on the sleeve of his black coat . 
`` My father , '' replied Nicholas . 
Nicholas sighed . 
`` One sister , '' rejoined Nicholas . 
`` I have been tolerably well educated , '' said Nicholas . 
There was something so earnest and guileless in the way in which all this was said , and such a complete disregard of all conventional restraints and coldnesses , that Nicholas could not resist it . 
Nicholas took the infection instantly , and ran over the main points of his little history without reserve , merely suppressing names , and touching as lightly as possible upon his uncle 's treatment of Kate . 
So saying , the old gentleman dragged him back into Oxford Street , and hailing an omnibus on its way to the city , pushed Nicholas in before him , and followed himself . 
As he appeared in a most extraordinary condition of restless excitement , and whenever Nicholas offered to speak , immediately interposed with -- `` Do n't say another word , my dear sir , on any account -- not another word , '' the young man thought it better to attempt no further interruption . 
Into the city they journeyed accordingly , without inter-changing any conversation ; and the further they went , the more Nicholas wondered what the end of the adventure could possibly be . 
The old gentleman got out with great alacrity when they reached the Bank , and once more taking Nicholas by the arm , hurried him along Threadneedle Street , and through some lanes and passages on the right , until they at length emerged in a quiet shady little square . 
Into the oldest and cleanest-looking house of business in the square , he led the way . 
The only inscription on the door-post was `` Cheeryble , Brothers ; '' but from a hasty glance at the directions of some packages which were lying about , Nicholas supposed that the Brothers Cheeryble were German-merchants . 
Passing through a warehouse which presented every indication of a thriving business , Mr. Cheeryble -LRB- for such Nicholas supposed him to be , from the respect which had been shown him by the warehousemen and porters whom they passed -RRB- led him into a little partitioned-off counting-house like a large glass case , in which counting-house there sat -- as free from dust and blemish as if he had been fixed into the glass case before the top was put on , and had never come out since -- a at , elderly , large-faced , clerk , with silver spectacles and a powdered head . 
said Mr. Cheeryble , with no less kindness of manner than he had shown to Nicholas . 
`` Yes he is , sir , '' replied the fat clerk , turning his spectacle-glasses towards his principal , and his eyes towards Nicholas , `` but Mr. Trimmers is with him . '' 
Talking on in this strain as fast as he could , to prevent any friendly remonstrances from the collector of the subscription on the large amount of his donation , Mr. Cheeryble led Nicholas , equally astonished and affected by what he had seen and heard in this short space , to the half-opened door of another room . 
`` Brother Charles , my dear fellow , '' replied a voice from the inside ; so like in its tones to that which had just spoken that Nicholas started , and almost thought it was the same , `` Do n't ask me such a question , but come in directly . '' 
What was the amazement of Nicholas when his conducter advanced and exchanged a warm greeting with another old gentleman , the very type and model of himself -- the same face , the same figure , the same coat , waistcoat , and neckcloth , the same breeches and gaiters -- nay , there was the very same white hat hanging against the wall ! 
As they shook each other by the hand , the face of each lighted up by beaming looks of affection , which would have been most delightful to behold in infants , and which , in men so old , was inexpressibly touching , Nicholas could observe that the last old gentleman was something stouter than his brother ; this , and a slight additional shade of clumsiness in his gait and stature , formed the only perceptible difference between them . 
`` Brother Ned , '' said Nicholas 's friend , closing the room-door , `` here is a young friend of mine that we must assist . 
`` But hear this first -- hear this first , brother Ned , '' said the old man hastily , placing two chairs , one on each side of Nicholas . 
`` No , no , no , '' returned the other , nodding his head gravely . 
`` He will tell me I 'm wrong , if I make a mistake , '' said Nicholas 's friend . 
The twins pressed each other 's hands in silence , and , in his own homely manner , brother Charles related the particulars he had heard from Nicholas . 
It is no disparagement to Nicholas to say , that before he had been closeted with the two brothers ten minutes , he could only wave his hand at every fresh expression of kindness and sympathy , and sob like a little child . 
At length brother Ned and Tim Linkinwater came back together , when Tim instantly walked up to Nicholas and whispered in his ear in a very brief sentence , -LRB- for Tim was ordinarily a man of few words , -RRB- that he had taken down the address in the Strand , and would call upon him that evening at eight . 
So let us say good-bye for the present , and -- there , there -- take care of that box , my dear Sir -- and -- no , no , no , not a word now ; but be careful of the crossings and -- '' And with any disjointed and unconnected words which would prevent Nicholas from pouring forth his thanks , the brothers hurried him out , shaking hands with him all the way , and affecting very unsuccessfully -- they were poor hands at deception ! 
-- to be wholly unconscious of the feelings that completely mastered him . 
Nicholas 's heart was too full to allow of his turning into the street until he had recovered some composure . 
When he at last glided out of the dark doorway-corner in which he had been compelled to halt , he caught a glimpse of the twins stealthily peeping in at one corner of the glass-case , evidently undecided whether they should follow up their late attack without delay , or for the present postpone laying further siege to the inflexible Tim Linkinwater . 
It is sufficient to state , in brief , that Mr. Timothy Linkinwater arrived punctual to his appointment ; that , oddity as he was , and jealous as he was bound to be of the proper exercise of his employers ' most comprehensive liberality , he reported strongly and warmly in favour of Nicholas ; and that next day he was appointed to the vacant stool in the counting-house of Cheeryble , Brothers , with a present salary of one hundred and twenty pounds a year . 
`` And I think , my dear brother , '' said Nicholas 's first friend , `` that if we were to let them that little cottage at Bow which is empty , at something under the usual rent , now -- Eh , brother Ned ? '' 
Brother Ned gave his hand upon it , and not only said it should be done , but had it done too : and in one short week Nicholas took possession of the stool , and Mrs. Nickleby and Kate took possession of the house ; and all was hope , bustle , and light-heartedness . 
Every night when Nicholas came home , something new had been found out . 
Then , there was Miss La Creevy , who had come out in the omnibus to stop a day or two and help , and who was perpetually losing a very small brown paper parcel of tin tacks and a very large hammer , and running about with her sleeves tucked up at the wrists , and falling off pairs of steps and hurting herself very much -- and Mrs. Nickleby , who talked incessantly , and did something now and then , but not often -- and Kate , who busied herself noiselessly everywhere , and was pleased with everything -- and Smike , who made the garden a perfect wonder to look upon -- and Nicholas , who helped and encouraged them every one -- all the peace and cheerfulness of home restored , with such new zest imparted to every frugal pleasure , and such delight to every hour of meeting , as misfortune and separation alone could give . 
Nicholas shook hands , kissed his old pupils all round , entrusted a large parcel of toys to the guardianship of Morleena , bowed to the doctor and the married ladies , and inquired after Mrs. Kenwigs in a tone of interest , which went to the very heart and soul of the nurse , who had come in to warm some mysterious compound in a little saucepan over the fire . 
`` I ought to make a hundred apologies to you for calling at such a season , '' said Nicholas , `` but I was not aware of it until I had rung the bell , and my time is so fully occupied now , that I feared it might be some days before I could possibly come again . '' 
`` You are very good , '' said Nicholas . 
`` The fact is , '' resumed Nicholas , `` that before I left the country , where I have been for some time past , I undertook to deliver a message to you . '' 
`` And I have been , '' added Nicholas , `` already in town for some days without having had an opportunity of doing so . '' 
`` Miss Petowker , '' suggested Nicholas . 
Hearing this mention of their old friend 's name , the four Miss Kenwigses gathered round Nicholas , open eyed and mouthed , to hear more . 
N2510023 `` The message relates to family matters , '' said Nicholas , hesitating . 
`` Oh , never mind , '' said Kenwigs , glancing at Mr. Lumbey , who having rashly taken charge of little Lillyvick , found nobody disposed to relieve him of his precious burden . 
Nicholas hemmed once or twice , and seemed to have some difficulty in proceeding . 
`` Yes , '' said Nicholas . 
`` The message is from him , '' said Nicholas . 
`` He desired me to give his kindest love , '' said Nicholas . 
`` His kindest love , '' resumed Nicholas ; `` and to say that he had no time to write , but that he was married to Miss Petowker . '' 
But Nicholas and the doctor -- who had been passive at first , doubting very much whether Mr. Kenwigs could be in earnest -- interfering to explain the immediate cause of his condition , the indignation of the matrons was changed to pity , and they implored him with much feeling to go quietly to bed . 
At length Morleena -LRB- who quite forgot she had fainted , when she found she was not noticed -RRB- announced that a chamber was ready for her afflicted parent ; and Mr. Kenwigs , having partially smothered his four daughters in the closeness of his embrace , accepted the doctor 's arm on one side , and the support of Nicholas on the other , and was conducted up-stairs to a bedroom which had been secured for the occasion . 
Having seen him sound asleep and heard him snore most satisfactorily , and having further presided over the distribution of the toys , to the perfect contentment of all the little Kenwigses , Nicholas took his leave . 
Such thoughts as these , occurred to Nicholas very strongly on the morning when he first took possession of the vacant stool , and looked about him more freely and at ease than he had before enjoyed an opportunity of doing . 
Perhaps they encouraged and stimulated him to exertion , for , during the next two weeks , all his spare hours , late at night and early in the morning , were incessantly devoted to acquiring the mysteries of book-keeping and some other forms of mercantile account . 
To these he applied himself with such steadiness and perseverance that , although he brought no greater amount of previous knowledge to the subject than certain dim recollections of two or three very long sums entered into a cyphering-book at school , and relieved for parental inspection by the effigy of a fat swan tastefully flourished by the writing-master 's own hand , he found himself , at the end of a fortnight , in a condition to report his proficiency to Mr. Linkinwater , and to claim his promise that he , Nicholas Nickleby , should now be allowed to assist him in his graver labours . 
`` Come , come , '' said Nicholas , `` I am all impatience to begin . '' 
Mr. Nickleby was not sufficiently impressed with the deep and awful nature of his undertaking . 
Without even taking the precaution of sitting himself down upon his stool , but standing leisurely at the desk , and with a smile upon his face -- actually a smile ; -LRB- there was no mistake about it ; Mr. Linkinwater often mentioned it afterwards ;-RRB- Nicholas dipped his pen into the inkstand before him , and plunged into the books of Cheeryble Brothers ! 
Tim Linkinwater turned pale , and tilting up his stool on the two legs nearest Nicholas , looked over his shoulder in breathless anxiety . 
At length he drew a long slow breath , and still maintaining his position on the tilted stool , glanced at brother Charles , secretly pointed with the feather of his pen towards Nicholas , and nodded his head in a grave and resolute manner , plainly signifying `` He 'll do . '' 
Brother Charles nodded again , and exchanged a laughing look with brother Ned ; but just then Nicholas stopped to refer to some other page , and Tim Linkinwater , unable to contain his satisfaction any longer , descended from his stool and caught him rapturously by the hand . 
There a n't such a young man as this in all London , '' said Tim , clapping Nicholas on the back ; `` not one . 
But now , '' said Tim , extending his fore-finger towards Nicholas , `` now , when I 've shown him a little more , I 'm satisfied . 
The company consisted of the brothers Cheeryble , Tim Linkinwater , a ruddy-faced white-headed friend of Tim 's , -LRB- who was a superannuated bank clerk , -RRB- and Nicholas , who was presented to Tim Linkinwater 's sister with much gravity and solemnity . 
There was one little ceremony peculiar to the day , both the matter and manner of which made a very strong impression upon Nicholas . 
As Nicholas , struck by this sudden alteration , was wondering what it could portend , the brothers rose together , and the one at the top of the table leaning forward towards the other , and speaking in a low voice as if he were addressing him individually , said -- `` Brother Charles , my dear fellow , there is another association connected with this day which must never be forgotten , and never can be forgotten , by you and me . 
thought Nicholas , `` and there are scores of people of their own station , knowing all this , and twenty thousand times more , who would n't ask these men to dinner because they eat with their knives and never went to school ! '' 
At this bidding , the old butler placed before his master a small tray of clean glasses , and opening the door admitted the jolly porters and warehousemen whom Nicholas had seen below . 
At half-past ten -- late hours for the square -- there appeared a little tray of sandwiches and a bowl of bishop , which bishop coming on the top of the double-diamond , and other excitements , had such an effect upon Tim Linkinwater , that he drew Nicholas aside , and gave him to understand confidentially that it was quite true about the uncommonly handsome spinster , and that she was to the full as good-looking as she had been described -- more so , indeed -- but that she was in too much of a hurry to change her condition , and consequently , while Tim was courting her and thinking of changing his , got married to somebody else . 
At length the coach rumbled off , and Tim Linkinwater 's sister being now fairly on her way home , Nicholas and Tim Linkinwater 's friend took their leaves together , and left old Tim and the worthy brothers to their repose . 
As Nicholas had some distance to walk , it was considerably past midnight by the time he reached home , where he found his mother and Smike sitting up to receive him . 
It was long after their usual hour of retiring , and they had expected him at the very latest two hours ago ; but the time had not hung heavily on their hands , for Mrs. Nickleby had entertained Smike with a genealogical account of her family by the mother 's side , comprising biographical sketches of the principal members , and Smike had sat wondering what it was all about , and whether it was learnt from a book , or said out of Mrs. Nickleby 's own head ; so that they got on together very pleasantly . 
Nicholas could not go to bed without expatiating on the excellences and munificence of the Brothers Cheeryble , and relating the great success which had attended his efforts that day . 
But before he had said a dozen words , Mrs. Nickleby with many sly winks and nods , observed , that she was sure Mr. Smike must be quite tired out , and that she positively must insist on his not sitting up a minute longer . 
`` I know you 'll excuse me , Nicholas , my dear , but I do n't like to do this before a third person ; indeed , before a young man it would not be quite proper , though really after all , I do n't know what harm there is in it , except that to be sure it 's not a very becoming thing , though some people say it is very much so , and really I do n't know why it should not be , if it 's well got up , and the borders are small-plaited ; of course , a good deal depends upon that . '' 
`` People may say what they like , '' observed Mrs. Nickleby , `` but there 's a great deal of comfort in a night-cap , as I 'm sure you would confess , Nicholas my dear , if you would only have strings to yours , and wear it like a christian , instead of sticking it upon the very top of your head like a blue-coat boy ; you need n't think it an unmanly or quizzical thing to be particular about your night-cap , for I have often heard your poor dear papa , and the reverend Mr. what 's his name , who used to read prayers in that old church with the curious little steeple that the weathercock was blown off the night week before you were born , I have often heard them say , that the young men at college are uncommonly particular about their nightcaps , and that the Oxford nightcaps are quite celebrated for their strength and goodness ; so much so , indeed , that the young men never dream of going to bed without 'em , and I believe it 's admitted on all hands that they know what 's good , and do n't coddle themselves . '' 
Nicholas laughed , and entering no further into the subject of this lengthened harangue , reverted to the pleasant tone of the little birthday party . 
And as Mrs. Nickleby instantly became very curious respecting it , and made a great number of inquiries touching what they had had for dinner , and how it was put on table , and whether it was overdone or underdone , and who was there , and what `` the Mr. Cherrybles '' said , and what Nicholas said , and what the Mr. Cherrybles said when he said that ; Nicholas described the festivities at full length , and also the occurrences of the morning . 
`` Late as it is , '' said Nicholas , `` I am almost selfish enough to wish that Kate had been up ; to hear all this . 
a couple of hours -- and I 'm very glad , Nicholas my dear , that I prevailed upon her not to sit up , for I wished very much to have an opportunity of saying a few words to you . 
Nicholas stopped in the middle of a sleepy yawn , as his mother began to speak , and looked at her with fixed attention . 
said Nicholas , quietly . 
`` Good gracious , Nicholas , my dear , how can you be so ridiculous ? 
`` I am very sorry , mother , that I should inherit this unfortunate slowness of apprehension , '' said Nicholas , kindly , `` but I 'll do my best to understand you if you 'll only go straight on , indeed I will . '' 
This was undoubtedly the case , inasmuch as the deceased Mr. Nickleby had not arrived at the knowledge when he died . 
`` I should suppose that the gentleman in the next house has as little to do with us , '' returned Nicholas . 
Nicholas looked on , quite amazed at the introduction of this new theme , which seemed just what Mrs. Nickleby had expected him to be . 
`` You may well be surprised , Nicholas , my dear , '' she said , `` I am sure I was . 
The bottom of his garden joins the bottom of ours , and of course I had several times seen him sitting among the scarletbeans in his little arbour , or working at his little hot-beds . 
I used to think he stared rather , but I did n't take any particular notice of that , as we were new-comers , and he might be curious to see what we were like . 
But when he began to throw his cucumbers over our wall -- '' `` To throw his cucumbers over our wall ! '' 
repeated Nicholas , in great astonishment . 
`` Yes , Nicholas , my dear , '' replied Mrs. Nickleby , in a very serious tone ; `` his cucumbers over our wall . 
`` Confound his impudence ! '' 
said Nicholas , firing immediately . 
`` What does he mean by that ? '' 
`` I do n't think he means it impertinently at all , '' replied Mrs. Nickleby . 
said Nicholas , `` cucumbers and vegetable-marrows flying at the heads of the family as they walk in their own garden , and not meant impertinently ! 
Why , mother -- '' Nicholas stopped short , for there was an indescribable expression of placid triumph , mingled with a modest confusion , lingering between the borders of Mrs. Nickleby 's nightcap which arrested his attention suddenly . 
`` He must be a very weak , and foolish , and inconsiderate man , '' said Mrs. Nickleby ; `` blameable indeed -- at least I suppose other people would consider him so ; of course I ca n't be expected to express any opinion on that point , especially after always defending your poor dear papa when other people blamed him for making proposals to me ; and to be sure there can be no doubt that he has taken a very singular way of showing it . 
said Nicholas . 
`` Bless my heart , Nicholas my dear , '' returned his mother in a peevish tone , `` is n't that precisely what I am saying , if you would only let me speak ? 
All I say , is , what step is the best to take so as to reject these advances civilly and delicately , and without hurting his feelings too much , and driving him to despair , or anything of that kind ? 
exclaimed Mrs. Nickleby , with a half simper , `` suppose he was to go doing anything rash to himself , could I ever be happy again Nicholas ? '' 
Despite his vexation and concern , Nicholas could scarcely help smiling , as he rejoined , `` Now , do you think , mother , that such a result would be likely to ensue from the most cruel repulse ? '' 
inquired Nicholas , fretted almost beyond endurance , but looking nearly as resigned and patient as Mrs. Nickleby herself . 
asked Nicholas . 
`` Lord , Nicholas my dear , do you suppose I do n't know when a man 's in earnest ? '' 
muttered Nicholas . 
`` Every time I go to the window , '' said Mrs. Nickleby , `` he kisses one hand , and lays the other upon his heart -- of course it 's very foolish of him to do so , and I dare say you 'll say it 's very wrong , but he does it very respectfully -- very respectfully indeed -- and very tenderly , extremely tenderly . 
So far he deserves the greatest credit : there can be no doubt about that . 
And last evening , '' added Mrs. Nickleby , with increased confusion , `` he called gently over the wall , as I was walking in the garden , and proposed marriage and an elopement . 
His voice is as clear as a bell or a musical glass -- very like a musical glass indeed -- but of course I did n't listen to it . 
Then the question is , Nicholas my dear , what am I to do ? '' 
asked Nicholas . 
`` I have not said a word about it yet , '' answered his mother . 
`` Then for Heaven 's sake , '' rejoined Nicholas , rising , `` do not , for it would make her very unhappy . 
So saying , Nicholas kissed his mother and bade her good night , and they retired to their respective chambers . 
But , although there was no evil and little real selfishness in Mrs. Nickleby 's heart , she had a weak head and a vain one ; and there was something so flattering in being sought -LRB- and vainly sought -RRB- in marriage at this time of day , that she could not dismiss the passion of the unknown gentleman quite so summarily or lightly as Nicholas appeared to deem becoming . 
Having made these reflections , Mrs. Nickleby looked in her little dressing-glass , and walking backward a few steps from it tried to remember who it was who used to say that when Nicholas was one-and-twenty he would have more the appearance of her brother than her son . 
I ca n't see him . 
I ca n't see anybody , '' said his master , more violently than before . 
`` Did he say whether he had any business to speak about ? '' 
He said he wished to see you , sir . 
`` Tell him to come up . 
I swear , '' said Ralph , his face darkening , and his own hatred getting the upper hand of him for the first time , as this gay picture of Nicholas presented itself ; `` if we were only citizens of a country where it could be safely done , I 'd give good money to have him stabbed to the heart and rolled into the kennel for the dogs to tear . '' 
Sir Mulberry has been calling to mind the cause of -- '' There was neither necessity nor opportunity for Ralph to proceed ; for Sir Mulberry took up the theme , and vented his threats and oaths against Nicholas almost as ferociously as before . 
There was no likelihood of his losing his way , for it lay quite straight before him , and he had walked into town with Nicholas , and back alone , almost every day . 
Smike glanced at the neat attire which the care of Nicholas had provided for him , and wrung his hands . 
He warded off the blows as well as he could , and now shrunk into a corner of the coach , with his head resting on his hands , and his elbows on his knees ; he was stunned and stupefied , and had no more idea that any act of his would enable him to escape from the all-powerful Squeers , now that he had no friend to speak to or advise with , than he had had in all the weary years of his Yorkshire life which preceded the arrival of Nicholas . 
He had already called to mind the strict injunctions of secrecy as to his past life , which Nicholas had laid upon him when they travelled from Yorkshire ; and a confused and perplexed idea that his benefactor might have committed some terrible crime in bringing him away , which would render him liable to heavy punishment if detected , had contributed in some degree to reduce him to his present state of apathy and terror . 
Such were the thoughts -- if to visions so imperfect and undefined as those which wandered through his enfeebled brain , the term can be applied -- which were present to the mind of Smike , and rendered him deaf alike to intimidation and persuasion . 
There were voices which would have roused him , even then , but their welcome tones could not penetrate there ; and he crept to bed the same listless , hopeless , blighted creature , that Nicholas had first found him at the Yorkshire school . 
All that evening Newman had been hunting and searching in byways and corners for the very person who now knocked at his door , while Nicholas had been pursuing the same inquiry in other directions . 
He was sitting with a melancholy air at his poor supper , when Smike 's timorous and uncertain knock reached his ears . 
Mr. Nicholas -- '' `` God bless him ! '' 
At the first sound of their voices outside the house , Nicholas , who had passed a sleepless night , devising schemes for the recovery of his lost charge , started from his bed and joyfully admitted them . 
At first Nicholas was disposed to give his uncle credit for some portion of this bold attempt -LRB- which had so nearly proved successful -RRB- to carry off Smike , but on more mature consideration he was inclined to think that the full merit of it rested with Mr. Squeers . 
`` A fine morning , Mr. Linkinwater , '' said Nicholas , entering the office . 
`` It 's a little clearer out of town , '' said Nicholas . 
`` You should see it from mine , '' replied Nicholas , with a smile . 
said Nicholas . 
`` Not I , indeed , '' returned Nicholas . 
`` They belong to a sickly bed-ridden hump-backed boy , and seem to be the only pleasures , Mr. Nickleby , of his sad existence . 
How many years is it , '' said Tim , pondering , `` since I first noticed him quite a little child , dragging himself about on a pair of tiny crutches ? 
not many ; but though they would appear nothing , if I thought of other things , they seem a long , long time , when I think of him . 
It is a sad thing , '' said Tim , breaking off , `` to see a little deformed child sitting apart from other children , who are active and merry , watching the games he is denied the power to share in . 
He made my heart ache very often . '' 
`` It is a good heart , '' said Nicholas , `` that disentangles itself from the close avocations of every day , to heed such things . 
asked Nicholas . 
With which inquiry , Tim turned his back , and pretending to be absorbed in his accounts , took an opportunity of hastily wiping his eyes when he supposed Nicholas was looking another way . 
Whether it was that Tim 's accounts were more than usually intricate that morning , or whether it was that his habitual serenity had been a little disturbed by these recollections , it so happened that when Nicholas returned from executing some commission , and inquired whether Mr. Charles Cheeryble was alone in his room , Tim promptly , and without the smallest hesitation , replied in the affirmative , although somebody had passed into the room not ten minutes before , and Tim took especial and particular pride in preventing any intrusion on either of the brothers when they were engaged with any visitor whatever . 
`` I 'll take this letter to him at once , '' said Nicholas , `` if that 's the else . '' 
And with that he walked to the room and knocked at the door . 
`` He ca n't be here , '' thought Nicholas . 
So Nicholas opened the door and walked in ; and very quickly he turned to walk out again , when he saw to his great astonishment and discomfiture a young lady upon her knees at Mr. Cheeryble 's feet , and Mr. Cheeryble beseeching her to rise , and entreating a third person who had the appearance of the young lady 's female attendant , to add her persuasions to his to induce her to do so . 
Nicholas stammered out an awkward apology , and was precipitately retiring , when the young lady , turning her head a little , presented to his view the features of the lovely girl whom he had seen at the register office on his first visit long before . 
Glancing from her to the attendant , he recognised the same clumsy servant who had accompanied her then ; and between his admiration of the young lady 's beauty , and the confusion and surprise of this unexpected recognition , he stood stock-still in such a bewildered state of surprise and embarrassment that for the moment he was quite bereft of the power either to speak or move . 
`` She has fainted , sir , '' said Nicholas , darting eagerly forward . 
`` Brother Charles , my dear fellow , '' replied his brother , hurrying into the room , `` what is the -- ah ! 
`` I think she is better now , '' said Nicholas , who had been watching the patient so eagerly that he had not heard the request . 
`` Brother Ned , my dear fellow , you will be surprised , I know , to witness this in business hours ; but -- '' here he was again reminded of the presence of Nicholas , and shaking him by the hand , earnestly requested him to leave the room , and to send Tim Linkinwater without an instant 's delay . 
Nicholas immediately withdrew , and on his way to the counting-house met both the old housekeeper and Tim Linkinwater , jostling each other in the passage , and hurrying to the scene of action with extraordinary speed . 
Without waiting to hear his message , Tim Linkinwater darted into the room and presently afterwards Nicholas heard the door shut and locked on the inside . 
He had abundance of time to ruminate on this discovery , for Tim Linkinwater was absent during the greater part of an hour , during the whole of which time Nicholas thought of nothing but the young lady and her exceeding healthy , and what could possibly have brought her there , and why they made such a mystery of it . 
The more he thought of all this , the more it perplexed him , and the more anxious he became to know who and what she was . 
`` I should have known her among ten thousand , '' thought Nicholas . 
And with that he walked up and down the room , and recalling her face and figure -LRB- of which he had a peculiarly vivid remembrance -RRB- , discarded all other subjects of reflection and dwelt upon that alone . 
said Nicholas , impetuously . 
repeated Nicholas . 
`` Nay , '' returned Nicholas , `` what do you make of my question first ? 
returned Nicholas . 
asked Nicholas . 
said Nicholas , looking earnestly at the other . 
Nicholas hazarded one or two further remarks , but it was evident that Tim Linkinwater had his own reasons for evading the subject , and that he was determined to afford no further information respecting the fair unknown , who had awakened so much curiosity in the breast of his young friend . 
Nothing daunted by this repulse , Nicholas returned to the charge next day , emboldened by the circumstances of Mr. Linkinwater being in a very talkative and communicative mood ; but directly he resumed the theme , Tim relapsed into a state of most provoking taciturnity , and from answering in monosyllables , came to returning no answers at all , save such as were to be inferred from several grave nods , and shrugs which only served to what that appetite for intelligence in Nicholas , which had already attained a most unreasonable height . 
Foiled in these attempts , he was fain to content himself with watching for the young lady 's next visit , but here again he was disappointed . 
He looked eagerly at the superscription of all the notes and letters , but there was not one among them which he could fancy to be in her hand writing . 
On two or three occasions he was employed on business which took him to a distance , and had formerly been transacted by Tim Linkinwater . 
Nicholas could not help suspecting that for some reason or other he was sent out of the way on purpose , and that the young lady was there in his absence . 
Thus it is that it often attains its most luxuriant growth in separation and under circumstances of the utmost difficulty ; and thus it was that Nicholas , thinking of nothing but the unknown young lady from day to day and from hour to hour , began at last to think that he was very desperately in love with her , and that never was such an ill-used and persecuted lover as he . 
Still , though he loved and languished after the most orthodox models , and was only deterred from making a confidante of Kate by the slight considerations of having never , in all his life , spoken to the object of his passion , and having never set eyes upon her except on two occasions , on both of which she had come and gone like a flash of lighting -- or , as Nicholas himself said , in the numerous conversations he held with himself , like a vision of youth and beauty much too bright to last -- his ardour and devotion remained without its reward . 
The young lady appeared no more ; so that there was great deal of love wasted -LRB- enough indeed to have set up half-a-dozen young gentlemen , as times go , with the utmost decency -RRB- and nobody was a bit the wiser for it ; not even Nicholas himself , who , on the contrary , became more dull , sentimental , and lackadaisical every day . 
While matters were in this state , the failure of a correspondent of the Brothers Cheeryble , in Germany , imposed upon Tim Linkinwater and Nicholas the necessity of going through some very long and complicated accounts extending over a considerable space of time . 
To get through them with the greater despatch , Tim Linkinwater proposed that they should remain at the counting-house for a week or so , until ten o'clock at night ; to this , as nothing damped the zeal of Nicholas in the service of his kind patrons -- not even romance , which has seldom business habits -- he cheerfully assented . 
These repeated visits inflamed the curiosity of Nicholas to the very highest pitch . 
Tantalized and excited beyond all bearing , and unable to fathom the mystery without neglecting his duty , he confided the whole secret to Newman Noggs , imploring him to be on the watch next night , to follow the girl home , to set on foot such inquiries relative to the name , condition , and history of her mistress , as he could without exciting suspicion ; and to report the result to him with the least possible delay . 
Newman had made two appointments with Nicholas , one for the next evening conditional on his success , and one the next night following which was to be kept under all circumstances . 
The first night he was not at the place of meeting -LRB- a certain tavern about half-way between the City and Golden Square -RRB- , but on the second night he was there before Nicholas , and received him with open arms . 
Nicholas needed no second invitation , and eagerly inquired what was the news . 
said Nicholas eagerly . 
said Nicholas . 
repeated Nicholas , indignantly . 
repeated Nicholas , more emphatically than before . 
returned Nicholas , muttering the two names together over and over again in every variety of tone , to try the effect . 
said Nicholas . 
demanded Nicholas . 
`` Never mind , my dear boy , '' retorted Noggs , clapping him on the shoulder . 
`` My dear Newman , '' cried Nicholas , grasping his hand , `` are you serious ? '' 
`` I know she is ; I know she must be , Newman , '' said Nicholas , wringing his hand . 
cried Nicholas . 
Poor Noggs literally gasped for breath as this flood of questions rushed upon him , and moved spasmodically in his chair at every fresh inquiry , staring at Nicholas meanwhile with a most ludicrous expression of perplexity . 
asked Nicholas . 
`` That 's true , Newman , '' replied Nicholas , with his characteristic vehemence . 
asked Nicholas . 
Of course she would , '' said Nicholas , approvingly . 
He further related how it had required much moving and great eloquence to bring the young lady to this pass ; how it was expressly understood that she merely afforded Nicholas an opportunity of declaring his passion , and how she by no means pledged herself to be favourably impressed with his attentions . 
It appeared on further questioning -- for it was only by a very long and arduous process that all this could be got out of Newman Noggs -- that Newman , in explanation of his shabby appearance , had represented himself as being , for certain wise and indispensable purposes connected with that intrigue , in disguise ; and being questioned how he had come to exceed his commission so far as to procure an interview , he responded , that the lady appearing willing to grant it , he considered himself bound , both in duty and gallantry , to avail himself of such a golden means of enabling Nicholas to prosecute his addresses . 
`` Things come about very strangely , '' thought Nicholas , as he walked home . 
Still Nicholas was dissatisfied ; and there was more in the dissatisfaction than mere revulsion of feeling . 
He was angry with the young lady for being so easily won , `` because , '' reasoned Nicholas , `` it is not as if she knew it was I , but it might have been anybody , '' -- which was certainly not pleasant . 
The next moment he was angry with himself for entertaining such thoughts , arguing that nothing but goodness could dwell in such a temple , and that the behaviour of the brothers sufficiently showed the estimation in which they held her . 
`` The fact is , she 's a mystery altogether , '' said Nicholas . 
This was not more satisfactory than his previous course of reflection , and only drove him out upon a new sea of speculation and conjecture , where he tossed and tumbled in great discomfort of mind until the clock struck ten , and the hour of meeting drew nigh . 
Nicholas had dressed himself with great care , and even Newman Noggs had trimmed himself up a little : his coat presenting the phenomenon of two consecutive buttons , and the supplementary pins being inserted at tolerably regular intervals . 
replied Nicholas , looking about him . 
`` Yes , '' returned Nicholas , `` rather dull . '' 
Newman made no answer to this remark , but halting abruptly , planted Nicholas with his back to some area railings , and gave him to understand that he was to wait there , without moving hand or foot , until it was satisfactorily ascertained that the coast was clear . 
This done , Noggs limped away with great alacrity , looking over his shoulder every instant , to make quite certain that Nicholas was obeying his directions ; and ascending the steps of a house some half-dozen doors off , was lost to view . 
After a short delay , he re-appeared , and limping back again , halted midway , and beckoned Nicholas to follow him . 
said Nicholas , advancing towards him on tiptoe . 
With this fortifying assurance , he stole past a street-door , on which Nicholas caught a glimpse of a brass plate , with `` Bobster , '' in very large letters ; and stopping at the area-gate , which was open , signed to his young friend to descend . 
cried Nicholas , drawing back . 
cried Nicholas , in high wrath , `` do you mean to tell me that any man would dare to box the ears of such a -- '' He had no time to sing the praises of his mistress just then , for Newman gave him a gentle push which had nearly precipitated him to the bottom of the area steps . 
Thinking it best to take the hint in good part , Nicholas descended without further remonstrance ; but with a countenance bespeaking anything rather than the hope and rapture of a passionate lover . 
Newman followed -- he would have followed head first , but for the timely assistance of Nicholas -- and taking his hand , led him through a stone passage , profoundly dark , into a back kitchen or cellar of the blackest and most pitchy obscurity , where they stopped . 
said Nicholas , in a discontented whisper , `` this is not all , I suppose , is it ? '' 
`` I am glad to hear it , '' said Nicholas . 
They exchanged no further words , and there Nicholas stood , listening to the loud breathing of Newman Noggs , and imagining that his nose seemed to glow like a red-hot coal , even in the midst of the darkness which enshrouded them . 
Suddenly the sound of cautious footsteps attracted his ear , and directly afterwards a female voice inquired if the gentleman were there . 
`` Yes , '' replied Nicholas , turning towards the corner from which the voice proceeded . 
A gleam of light shone into the place , and presently the servant-girl appeared , bearing a light , and followed by her young mistress , who seemed to be overwhelmed by modesty and confusion . 
At sight of the young lady , Nicholas started and changed colour ; his heart beat violently , and he stood rooted to the spot . 
The young lady shrieked , the attendant wrung her hands , Nicholas gazed from one to the other in apparent stupefaction , and Newman hurried to and fro , thrusting his hands into all his pockets successively , and drawing out the linings of every one in the excess of his irresolution . 
cried Nicholas . 
But Nicholas might as well have spoken to the wind , for the young lady with distracted looks hurried up the stairs . 
He would have followed her , but Newman twisting his hand in his coat collar , dragged him towards the passage by which they had entered . 
`` Let me go , Newman , in the Devil 's name , '' cried Nicholas . 
`` Reputation -- character -- violence -- consider , '' said Newman , clinging round him with both arms , and hurrying him away . 
Overpowered by the remonstrances of Newman and the tears and prayers of the girl , and the tremendous knocking above , which had never ceased , Nicholas allowed himself to be hurried off ; and precisely as Mr. Bobster made his entrance by the street-door , he and Noggs made their exit by the area-gate . 
`` Excellently , '' replied Nicholas , taking his hand . 
`` Newman , Newman , '' said Nicholas , laying his hand upon his shoulder ; `` it was the wrong servant too . '' 
Newman 's under-jaw dropped , and he gazed at Nicholas with his sound eye fixed fast and motionless in his head . 
`` Do n't take it to heart , '' said Nicholas ; `` it 's of no consequence ; you see I do n't care about it ; you followed the wrong person , that 's all . '' 
And Nicholas went home to brood upon it , and to meditate upon the charms of the unknown young lady , now as far beyond his reach as ever . 
The gentleman next door had been vilified by Nicholas ; rudely stigmatised as a dotard and an idiot ; and for these attacks upon his understanding , Mrs. Nickleby was in some sort accountable . 
said Mrs. Nickleby , gravely shaking her head ; `` if Nicholas knew what his poor dear papa suffered before we were engaged , when I used to hate him , he would have a little more feeling . 
Shall I ever forget the morning I looked scornfully at him when he offered to carry my parasol ? 
Or that night when I frowned at him ? 
It was a mercy he did n't emigrate . 
It very nearly drove him to it . '' 
`` Dear mama , '' rejoined Kate , `` do n't say a word to him , but let us run away as fast as we can , and shut ourselves up till Nicholas comes home . '' 
`` Whoever has spread such reports , sir , '' returned Mrs. Nickleby , with some warmth , `` has taken great liberties with my name , and one which I am sure my son Nicholas , if he was aware of it , would not allow for an instant . 
Quite forgetting even his hunger in the heartiness of his salutation , John Browdie shook Nicholas by the hand again and again , slapping his palm with great violence between each shake , to add warmth to the reception . 
there she be , '' said John , observing the look which Nicholas directed towards his wife . 
`` I shall take the usual licence , Mr. Browdie , '' said Nicholas , as he placed a chair for the bride . 
Without stopping to explain , Nicholas kissed the blushing Mrs. Browdie , and handed her to her seat . 
`` You may depend upon that , '' replied Nicholas ; `` on one condition . '' 
said Nicholas . 
said Nicholas . 
Nicholas laughed very heartily at this story , both on account of its telling against himself , and his being desirous to spare the blushes of Mrs. Browdie , whose protestations were drowned in peals of laughter from her husband . 
His good-nature soon put her at her ease ; and although she still denied the charge she laughed so heartily at it , that Nicholas had the satisfaction of feeling assured that in all essential respects it was strictly true . 
`` This is the second time , '' said Nicholas , `` that we have ever taken a meal together , and only the third I have ever seen you ; and yet it really seems to me as if I were among old friends . '' 
`` And I am sure I do , '' added his young wife . 
`` I have the best reason to be impressed with the feeling , mind , '' said Nicholas ; `` for if it had not been for your kindness of heart , my good friend , when I had no right or reason to expect it , I know not what might have become of me or what plight I should have been in by this time . '' 
`` It must be a new song to the same tune then , '' said Nicholas , smiling . 
rejoined John Browdie , drawing up his chair ; `` and I can never tell you hoo gratful soom folks that we do know would be loikewise , if they know 'd I had takken pity on him . '' 
inquired Nicholas of John Browdie . 
`` I understand , '' said Nicholas . 
asked Nicholas . 
`` Certainly , '' returned Nicholas ; `` and you acted upon that principle when I met you on horseback on the road , after our memerable evening . '' 
`` And that 's a fine thing to do , and manly too , '' said Nicholas , `` though it 's not exactly what we understand by ` coming Yorkshire over us ' in London . 
You were quite right in that , '' said Nicholas , interrupting . 
said Nicholas , shaking his head . 
`` You were speaking about Miss Squeers , '' said Nicholas , with the view of stopping some slight connubialities which had begun to pass between Mr. and Mrs. Browdie , and which rendered the position of a third party in some degree embarrassing , as occasioning him to feel rather in the way than otherwise . 
`` That was a very good arrangement , '' said Nicholas ; `` though I am sorry to be the occasion of so much trouble . '' 
`` I am very much obliged to her , '' said Nicholas ; `` but , upon my word , I never aspired to making any impression upon her virgin heart . '' 
With these reproaches Miss Squeers flung the door wide open , and disclosed to the eyes of the astonished Browdies and Nicholas , not only her own symmetrical form , arrayed in the chaste white garments before described , -LRB- a little dirtier -RRB- but the form of her brother and father , the pair of Wackfords . 
`` As for you , '' said Squeers , turning round and addressing Nicholas , who , as he had caused him to smart pretty soundly on a former occasion , purposely abstained from taking any part in the discussion , `` aye if I ai n't down upon you before long . 
`` I am not afraid of that , '' replied Nicholas , shrugging his shoulders contemptuously , and turning away . 
John Browdie remained standing behind the table , looking from his wife to Nicholas , and back again , with his mouth wide open , until his hand accidentally fell upon the tankard of ale , when he took it up , and having obscured his features therewith for some time , drew a long breath , handed it over to Nicholas , and rang the bell . 
said Nicholas , moving hastily towards the door . 
John looked rather disconcerted by this intelligence , though there was a lurking grin on his face at the same time ; but , being quite unable to keep out of the fray , he compromised the matter by tucking his wife 's arm under his own , and , thus accompanied , following Nicholas down stairs with all speed . 
These had hastily assembled round a young man who from his appearance might have been a year or two older than Nicholas , and who , besides having given utterance to the defiances just now described , seemed to have proceeded to even greater lengths in his indignation , inasmuch as his feet had no other covering than a pair of stockings , while a couple of slippers lay at no great distance from the head of a prostrate figure in an opposite corner , who bore the appearance of having been shot into his present retreat by means of a kick , and complimented by having the slippers flung about his ears afterwards . 
Observing this , and that the young gentleman was nearly of his own age and had in nothing the appearance of an habitual brawler , Nicholas , impelled by such feelings as will influence young men sometimes , felt a very strong disposition to side with the weaker party , and so thrust himself at once into the centre of the group , and in a more emphatic tone perhaps than circumstances might seem to warrant , demanded what all that noise was about . 
Disregarding these sallies , which were uncommonly well received , as sallies at the expense of the best-dressed persons in a crowd usually are , Nicholas glanced carelessly round , and addressing the young gentleman , who had by this time picked up his slippers and thrust his feet into them , repeated his inquiries with a courteous air . 
he replied . 
These and many other expressions of ironical disapprobation having been exhausted , two or three of the out-of-door fellows began to hustle Nicholas and the young gentleman who had made the noise : stumbling against them by accident , and treading on their toes , and so forth . 
The unpopular gentleman looked coolly round , and addressing himself to Nicholas , said : -- `` You inquired just now what was the matter here . 
Of all possible courses of proceeding under the circumstances detailed , there was certainly not one which , in his then state of mind , could have appeared more laudable to Nicholas than this . 
There were not many subjects of dispute which at that moment could have come home to his own breast more powerfully , for having the unknown uppermost in his thoughts , it naturally occurred to him that he would have done just the same if any audacious gossiper durst have presumed in his hearing to speak lightly of her . 
Influenced by these considerations , he espoused the young gentleman 's quarrel with great warmth , protesting that he had done quite right , and that he respected him for it ; which John Browdie -LRB- albeit not quite clear as to the merits -RRB- immediately protested too , with not inferior vehemence . 
`` I am sure I have seen that fellow before , '' said Nicholas . 
replied his new acquaintance . 
`` I am certain of it , '' said Nicholas , pausing to reflect . 
said Nicholas , ruminating upon the strange manner in which that register-office seemed to start up and stare him in the face every now and then , and when he least expected it . 
Nicholas took the card , and glancing at it involuntarily as he returned the compliment , evinced very great surprise . 
''' said Nicholas . 
Nicholas responded to these compliments with others of the same kind , and they shook hands warmly . 
Then he introduced John Browdie , who had remained in a state of great admiration ever since the young lady in the bar had been so skilfully won over to the right side . 
This Mr. Frank Cheeryble , although , to judge from what had recently taken place , a hot-headed young man , -LRB- which is not an absolute miracle and phenomenon in nature -RRB- was a sprightly , good-humoured , pleasant fellow , with much both in his countenance and disposition that reminded Nicholas very strongly of the kind-hearted brothers . 
His manner was as unaffected as theirs , and his demeanour full of that heartiness which , to most people who have anything generous in their composition , is peculiarly prepossessing . 
Add to this , that he was good-looking and intelligent , had a plentiful share of vivacity , was extremely cheerful , and accommodated himself in five minutes ' time to all John Browdie 's oddities with as much case as if he had known him from a boy ; and it will be a source of no great wonder that , when they parted for the night , he had produced a most favourable impression , not only upon the worthy Yorkshireman and his wife , but upon Nicholas also , who , revolving all these things in his mind as he made the best of his way home , arrived at the conclusion that he had laid the foundation of a most agreeable and desirable acquaintance . 
thought Nicholas . 
At all events , '' thought Nicholas , coming to the real point in his mind , `` there can be no danger of any prior occupation of her affections in that quarter ; that 's quite clear . '' 
Here was Nicholas Nickleby , who would have scorned the thought of counting how the chances stood of his rising in favour or fortune with the Brothers Cheeryble , now that their nephew had returned , already deep in calculations whether that same nephew was likely to rival him in the affections of the fair unknown -- discussing the matter with himself too , as gravely as if , with that one exception , it were all settled ; and recurring to the subject again and again , and feeling quite indignant and ill-used at the notion of anybody else making love to one with whom he had never exchanged a word in all his life . 
There was undoubted selfishness in all this , and yet Nicholas was of a most free and generous nature , with as few mean or sordid thoughts , perhaps , as ever fell to the lot of any man ; and there is no reason to suppose that , being in love , he felt and thought differently from other people in the like sublime condition . 
Nicholas and Mr. Frank laughed quite boisterously , perhaps to conceal some other emotion awakened by this little incident , -LRB- and , so indeed , did the three old fellows after the first burst , -RRB- so perhaps there was as much keen enjoyment and relish in that laugh altogether , as the politest assembly ever derived from the most poignant witticism uttered at any one person 's expense . 
The twins went out of the office arm in arm , and Nicholas , who saw in this act of kindness , and many others of which he had been the subject that morning , only so many delicate renewals on the arrival of their nephew of the kind assurances which the brothers had given him in his absence , could scarcely feel sufficient admiration and gratitude for such extraordinary consideration . 
You and Nicholas are left to me , we are together once again , and what regard can I have for a few trifling things of which we never feel the want ? 
But now , when the happiness of all that Nicholas had just told them , and of their new and peaceful life , brought these recollections so strongly upon Kate that she could not suppress them , Mrs. Nickleby began to have a glimmering that she had been rather thoughtless now and then , and was conscious of something like self-reproach as she embraced her daughter , and yielded to the emotions which such a conversation naturally awakened . 
But Smike 's pride in the garden , or Mrs. Nickleby 's in the condition of the furniture , or Kate 's in everything , was nothing to the pride with which Nicholas looked at Kate herself ; and surely the costliest mansion in all England might have found in her beautiful face and graceful form its most exquisite and peerless ornament . 
Kate went first , leaning upon her brother 's arm , and talking with him and Mr. Frank Cheeryble ; and Mrs. Nickleby and the elder gentleman followed at a short distance , the kindness of the good merchant , his interest in the welfare of Nicholas , and his admiration of Kate , so operating upon the good lady 's feelings , that the usual current of her speech was confined within very narrow and circumscribed limits . 
Smike -LRB- who , if he had ever been an object of interest in his life , had been one that day -RRB- accompanied them , joining sometimes one group and sometimes the other , as brother Charles , laying his hand upon his shoulder , bade him walk with him , or Nicholas , looking smilingly round , beckoned him to come and talk with the old friend who understood him best , and who could win a smile into his care-worn face when none else could . 
`` If they are -- '' `` They are not , '' returned Ralph , exasperated at this perseverance , and the thought of Nicholas , which the last question awakened . 
He was too weak ; he was too good ; he was a dem 'd fine fellow , but he loved too strong ; he could not bear her to be cross , and call him wicked names . 
The time at which John found himself in this enviable condition , was the same evening to which the last chapter bore reference ; the place was the cottage ; and the assembled company were Nicholas , Mrs. Nickleby , Mrs. Browdie , Kate Nickleby , and Smike . 
asked Nicholas . 
`` Nicholas , my dear , how very absurd you are , '' returned his mother ; `` of course I mean that his glazed hat looks like a gentleman 's servant , and not the wart upon his nose -- though even that is not so ridiculous as it may seem to you , for we had a footboy once , who had not only a wart , but a wen also , and a very large wen too , and he demanded to have his wages raised in consequence , because he found it came very expensive . 
The best way that I can think of , would be to send a card , and my compliments , -LRB- I 've no doubt he 'd take 'em for a pot of porter , -RRB- by this young man , to the Saracen with Two Necks -- if the waiter took him for a gentleman 's servant , so much the better . 
`` My dear mother , '' said Nicholas , `` I do n't suppose such unsophisticated people as these ever had a card of their own , or ever will have . '' 
`` Oh that , indeed , Nicholas , my dear , '' returned Mrs. Nickleby , `` that 's another thing . 
`` It must be some mistake , '' said Nicholas , carelessly . 
Mrs. Nickleby surmised , however , that perhaps the counting-house was burnt down , or perhaps ` the Mr. Cheerybles ' had sent to take Nicholas into partnership -LRB- which certainly appeared highly probable at that time of night -RRB- or perhaps Mr. Linkinwater had run away with the property , or perhaps Miss La Creevy was taken ill , or perhaps -- But a hasty exclamation from Kate stopped her abruptly in her conjectures , and Ralph Nickleby walked into the room . 
`` Stay , '' said Ralph , as Nicholas rose , and Kate , making her way towards him , threw herself upon his arm . 
Nicholas bit his lip and shook his head in a threatening manner , but appeared for the moment unable to articulate a syllable . 
Kate clung closer to his arm , Smike retreated behind them , and John Browdie , who had heard of Ralph , and appeared to have no great difficulty in recognising him , stepped between the old man and his young friend , as if with the intention of preventing either of them from advancing a step further . 
`` Do n't speak to him , '' said Nicholas , recovering his voice . 
cried John , laying his heavy hand upon his chest . 
`` Then let him instantly retire , '' said Nicholas , struggling . 
If he stands there , '' cried Nicholas , burning with fury , `` looking so calmly upon those who know his black and dastardly heart , he 'll drive me mad . '' 
To all these exclamations John Browdie answered not a word , but he retained his hold upon Nicholas ; and when he was silent again , spoke . 
Ay , sir , '' he continued , bending eagerly forward , and addressing Nicholas , as he marked the change of his countenance , `` to restore a parent his child -- his son , sir -- trepanned , waylaid , and guarded at every turn by you , with the base design of robbing him some day of any little wretched pittance of which he might become possessed . '' 
`` In that , you know you lie , '' said Nicholas , proudly . 
`` You bear upon your body certain marks I gave you , '' said Nicholas , looking quietly away , `` and may talk in acknowledgment of them as much as you please . 
The estimable gentleman last-named , cast a hasty look at the table , as if he were prompted by this retort to throw a jug or bottle at the head of Nicholas , but he was interrupted in this design -LRB- if such design he had -RRB- by Ralph , who , touching him on the elbow , bade him tell the father that he might now appear and claim his son . 
Pending this philosophical discourse , the bystanders had been quite stupified with amazement , while Nicholas had looked keenly from Snawley to Squeers , and from Squeers to Ralph , divided between his feelings of disgust , doubt , and surprise . 
At this juncture , Smike escaping from his father fled to Nicholas , and implored him , in most moving terms , never to give him up , but to let him live and die beside him . 
`` If you are this boy 's father , '' said Nicholas , `` look at the wreck he is , and tell me that you purpose to send him back to that loathsome den from which I brought him . '' 
Nicholas , stung by the concluding taunt , darted an indignant glance at him ; but commanding himself as well as he could , entered upon a close examination of the documents , at which John Browdie assisted . 
`` Dear Nicholas , '' whispered Kate , who had been looking anxiously over his shoulder , `` can this be really the case ? 
`` I fear it is , '' answered Nicholas . 
`` You have shown your regard for her feelings well , '' said Nicholas , drawing his sister towards him . 
`` No , no , no , '' replied Smike , drawing back , and clinging to Nicholas `` No . 
In the midst of a great noise , occasioned by the prayers and entreaties of Smike , the cries and exclamations of the women , and the vehemence of the men , demonstrations were made of carrying off the lost son by violence : and Squeers had actually begun to haul him out , when Nicholas -LRB- who , until then , had been evidently undecided how to act -RRB- took him by the collar , and shaking him so that such teeth as he had , chattered in his head , politely escorted him to the room door , and thrusting him into the passage , shut it upon him . 
`` Now '' said Nicholas , to the other two , `` have the kindness to follow your friend . '' 
`` Your son , '' replied Nicholas , `` chooses for himself . 
`` I would not give him up against his will , to be the victim of such brutality as that to which you would consign him , '' replied Nicholas , `` if he were a dog or a rat . '' 
`` Knock that Nickleby down with a candlestick , '' cried Mr. Squeers , through the keyhole , `` and bring out my hat , somebody , will you , unless he wants to steal it . '' 
Nicholas ought to be the best judge , and I hope he is . 
`` You shall , '' said Nicholas , motioning towards the door . 
But Mr. Squeers , who had heard a portion of this closing address , and was by this time wound up to a pitch of impotent malignity almost unprecedented , could not refrain from returning to the parlour-door , and actually cutting some dozen capers with various wry faces and hideous grimaces , expressive of his triumphant confidence in the downfall and defeat of Nicholas . 
Having concluded this war-dance , in which his short trousers and large boots had borne a very conspicuous figure , Mr. Squeers followed his friends , and the family were left to meditate upon recent occurrences . 
After an anxious consideration of the painful and embarrassing position in which he was placed , Nicholas decided that he ought to lose no time in frankly stating it to the kind brothers . 
`` So deeply-rooted does this horror of the man appear to be , '' said Nicholas , `` that I can hardly believe he really is his son . 
Nicholas was delighted to find that the old gentleman spoke so warmly , and in the hope that he might say something more to the same purpose made no reply . 
Nicholas coloured , and drew back a step or two . 
`` He came to -- '' said Nicholas . 
said Nicholas . 
I told him , ` You are a barbarian , sir . ' 
By this time brother Charles was in such a very warm state of indignation , that Nicholas thought he might venture to put in a word , but the moment he essayed to do so , Mr. Cheeryble laid his hand softly upon his arm , and pointed to a chair . 
After two or three turns across the room he resumed his seat , and drawing his chair nearer to that on which Nicholas was seated , said -- `` I am about to employ you , my dear sir , on a confidential and delicate mission . '' 
`` You might employ many a more able messenger , sir , '' said Nicholas , `` but a more trustworthy or zealous one , I may be bold to say , you could not find . '' 
cried Nicholas , quite trembling for the moment with his eagerness to hear more . 
`` Pray go on , sir , '' returned Nicholas . 
Perhaps you have forgotten -- '' `` Oh no , '' replied Nicholas , hurriedly . 
Like the famous parrot , Nicholas thought a great deal but was unable to utter a word . 
`` I have no such inclination , indeed , '' said Nicholas . 
A short silence intervened , which Nicholas made no effort to break . 
I never saw her again until that morning when you saw her also , but my nephew , Frank -- '' Nicholas started , and indistinctly apologising for the interruption , begged his patron to proceed . 
`` Can not she be persuaded to -- '' Nicholas hesitated when he had got thus far . 
said Nicholas . 
asked Nicholas . 
said Nicholas , indignantly . 
For the furtherance of which end and object it was necessary that somebody should represent the dealer in such commodities , and after great deliberation they had pitched upon Nicholas to support this character . 
`` He knows me , '' said brother Charles , `` and he knows my brother Ned . 
Nicholas stammered out that he had before suspected the possibility of such a thing ; and in explanation of its having occurred to him , described when and where he had seen the young lady himself . 
`` The young lady , Sir , '' said Nicholas , who felt so embarrassed that he had no small difficulty in saying anything at all -- `` Does -- is -- is she a party to this innocent deceit ? '' 
In this guileless and most kind simplicity , brother Charles was so happy , and in this possibility of the young lady being led to think that she was under no obligation to him , he evidently felt so sanguine and had so much delight , that Nicholas would not breathe a doubt upon the subject . 
All this time , however , there hovered upon the tip of his tongue a confession that the very same objections which Mr. Cheeryble had stated to the employment of his nephew in this commission applied with at least equal force and validity to himself , and a hundred times had he been upon the point of avowing the real state of his feelings , and entreating to be released from it . 
`` Why should I , '' thought Nicholas , `` why should I throw difficulties in the way of this benevolent and high-minded design ? 
Asking himself such questions as these , Nicholas mentally answered with great emphasis `` No ! '' 
and persuading himself that he was a most conscientious and glorious martyr , nobly resolved to do what , if he had examined his own heart a little more carefully , he would have found , he could not resist . 
Mr. Cheeryble , being of course wholly unsuspicious that such reflections were presenting themselves to his young friend , proceeded to give him the needful credentials and directions for his first visit , which was to be made next morning ; and all preliminaries being arranged , and the strictest secrecy enjoined , Nicholas walked home for the night very thoughtfully indeed . 
To the row of houses indicated to him by Mr. Charles Cheeryble , Nicholas directed his steps , without much troubling his head with such matters as these ; and at this row of houses -- after traversing a very dirty and dusty suburb , of which minor theatricals , shell-fish , ginger-beer , spring vans , green-grocery , and brokers ' shops , appeared to compose the main and most prominent features -- he at length arrived with a palpitating heart . 
Opening the rickety gate which , dangling on its broken hinges before one of these , half admitted and half repulsed the visitor , Nicholas knocked at the street door with a faltering hand . 
Nicholas had ample time to make these observations while the little boy , who went on errands for the lodgers , clattered down the kitchen stairs and was heard to scream , as in some remote cellar , for Miss Bray 's servant , who , presently appearing and requesting him to follow her , caused him to evince greater symptoms of nervousness and disorder than so natural a consequence of his having inquired for that young lady would seem calculated to occasion . 
Up-stairs he went , however , and into a front room he was shown , and there , seated at a little table by the window , on which were drawing materials with which she was occupied , sat the beautiful girl who had so engrossed his thoughts , and who , surrounded by all the new and strong interest which Nicholas attached to her story , seemed now , in his eyes , a thousand times more beautiful than he had ever yet supposed her . 
But how the graces and elegancies which she had dispersed about the poorly-furnished room , went to the heart of Nicholas ! 
And yet Nicholas was in the rules of the King 's Bench Prison ! 
If he had been in Italy indeed , and the time had been sunset , and the scene a stately terrace ; -- but , there is one broad sky over all the world , and whether it be blue or cloudy , the same heaven beyond it , so , perhaps , he had no need of compunction for thinking as he did . 
It is not to be supposed that he took in everything at one glance , for he had a yet been unconscious of the presence of a sick man propped up with pillows in an easy-chair , who moving restlessly and impatiently in his seat , attracted his attention . 
He was scarce fifty , perhaps , but so emaciated as to appear much older . 
His features presented the remains of handsome countenance , but one in which the embers of strong and impetuous passions were easier to be traced than any expression which would have rendered a far plainer face much more prepossessing . 
His looks were very haggard , and his limbs and body literally worn to the bone , but there was something of the old fire in the large sunken eye notwithstanding , and it seemed to kindle afresh as he struck a thick stick , with which he seemed to have supported himself in his seat , impatiently on the floor twice or thrice , and called his daughter by her name . 
`` I believe -- '' the young lady began , as she inclined her head with an air of some confusion , in reply to the salutation of Nicholas . 
By this time Nicholas had recovered sufficient presence of mind to speak for himself , so he said -LRB- as it had been agreed he should say -RRB- that he had called about a pair of hand-screens , and some painted velvet for an ottoman , both of which were required to be of the most elegant design possible , neither time nor expense being of the smallest consideration . 
He had also to pay for the two drawings , with many thanks , and , advancing to the little table , he laid upon it a bank note , folded in an envelope and sealed . 
She was so busily employed in arranging the pillows that Nicholas could not see her face , but as she stooped he thought he saw a tear fall . 
thought Nicholas . 
Perhaps something of what he thought was expressed in his countenance , for the sick man turning towards him with great asperity , demanded to know if he waited for a receipt . 
`` It is no matter at all , '' said Nicholas . 
`` I merely mean that as I shall have many dealings with this lady , if she will kindly allow me , I will not trouble her with such forms , '' said Nicholas . 
While she was feigning to write it , and Nicholas was ruminating upon the extraordinary , but by no means uncommon character thus presented to his observation , the invalid , who appeared at times to suffer great bodily pain , sank back in his chair and moaned out a feeble complaint that the girl had been gone an hour , and that everybody conspired to goad him . 
`` When , '' said Nicholas , as he took the piece of paper , `` when shall I -- call again ? '' 
`` Then sooner -- sooner , if you please , '' said the young lady , turning to Nicholas . 
`` It is a long time , ma'am , '' said Nicholas . 
Nicholas bowed low to the young lady and retired , pondering upon Mr. Bray 's ideas of independence , and devoutly hoping that there might be few such independent spirits as he mingling with the baser clay of humanity . 
He heard a light footstep above him as he descended the stairs , and looking round saw that the young lady was standing there , and glancing timidly towards him , seemed to hesitate whether she should call him back or no . 
The best way of settling the question was to turn back at once , which Nicholas did . 
`` You have but to hint a wish , '' returned Nicholas fervently , `` and I would hazard my life to gratify it . '' 
`` Truly and sincerely , '' rejoined Nicholas , his lips trembling as he formed the words , `` if ever man spoke truly yet . 
`` Forgive me , '' said Nicholas , with respectful earnestness , `` if I seem to say too much , or to presume upon the confidence which has been intrusted to me . 
She waved her hand , entreating him to be gone , but answered not a word . 
Nicholas could say no more , and silently withdrew . 
And thus ended his first interview with Madeline Bray . 
Mr. Nickleby against all the world -- there 's nobody like him . 
`` I must humour him though , '' cried old Arthur ; `` he must have his way -- a wilful man , as the Scotch say -- well , well , they 're a wise people , the Scotch -- he will talk about business , and wo n't give away his time for nothing . 
I ask again -- he , he , he ! 
Nobody else went to the expense of lodging a detainer , trusting to our holding him fast enough , I warrant you . 
And lent him our money upon bills , with only one name besides his own , which to be sure everybody supposed to be a good one , and was as negotiable as money , but which turned out -- you know how . 
Just as we should have come upon him , he died insolvent . 
Finding that it was impossible to make any impression upon his stanch friend , Arthur Gride , who had prepared himself for some such result before he came , consented with a heavy heart to the proposed treaty , and upon the spot filled up the bond required -LRB- Ralph kept such instruments handy -RRB- , after exacting the condition that Mr. Nickleby should accompany him to Bray 's lodgings that very hour , and open the negotiation at once , should circumstances appear auspicious and favourable to their designs . 
Meanwhile the two plotters had betaken themselves to the same house whither Nicholas had repaired for the first time but a few mornings before , and having obtained access to Mr. Bray , and found his daughter from home , had , by a train of the most masterly approaches that Ralph 's utmost skill could frame , at length laid open the real object of their visit . 
`` There he sits , Mr. Bray , '' said Ralph , as the invalid , not yet recovered from his surprise , reclined in his chair , looking alternately at him and Arthur Gride . 
It was with a very sad and heavy heart , oppressed by many painful ideas , that Nicholas retraced his steps eastward and betook himself to the counting-house of Cheeryble Brothers . 
Whatever the idle hopes he had suffered himself to entertain , whatever the pleasant visions which had sprung up in his mind and grouped themselves round the fair image of Madeline Bray , they were now dispelled , and not a vestige of their gaiety and brightness remained . 
It would be a poor compliment to Nicholas 's better nature , and one which he was very far from deserving , to insinuate that the solution , and such a solution , of the mystery which had seemed to surround Madeline Bray , when he was ignorant even of her name , had damped his ardour or cooled the fervour of his admiration . 
If he had regarded her before , with such a passion as young men attracted by mere beauty and elegance may entertain , he was now conscious of much deeper and stronger feelings . 
But , reverence for the truth and purity of her heart , respect for the helplessness and loneliness of her situation , sympathy with the trials of one so young and fair , and admiration of her great and noble spirit , all seemed to raise her far above his reach , and , while they imparted new depth and dignity to his love , to whisper that it was hopeless . 
`` I will keep my word , as I have pledged it to her , '' said Nicholas , manfully . 
Still , there were the secret feelings in existence just the same , and in secret Nicholas rather encouraged them than otherwise ; reasoning -LRB- if he reasoned at all -RRB- that there they could do no harm to anybody but himself , and that if he kept them to himself from a sense of duty , he had an additional right to entertain himself with them as a reward for his heroism . 
All these thoughts , coupled with what he had seen that morning and the anticipation of his next visit , rendered him a very dull and abstracted companion ; so much so , indeed , that Tim Linkinwater suspected he must have made the mistake of a figure somewhere , which was preying upon his mind , and seriously conjured him , if such were the case , to make a clean breast and scratch it out , rather than have his whole life embittered by the tortures of remorse . 
But in reply to these considerate representations , and many others both from Tim and Mr. Frank , Nicholas could only be brought to state that he was never merrier in his life ; and so went on all day , and so went towards home at night , still turning over and over again the same subjects , thinking over and over again the same things , and arriving over and over again at the same conclusions . 
It was thus that Nicholas found himself poring with the utmost interest over a large play-bill hanging outside a Minor Theatre which he had to pass on his way home , and reading a list of the actors and actresses who had promised to do honour to some approaching benefit , with as much gravity as if it had been a catalogue of the names of those ladies and gentlemen who stood highest upon the Book of Fate , and he had been looking anxiously for his own . 
He glanced at the top of the bill , with a smile at his own dulness , as he prepared to resume his walk , and there saw announced , in large letters with a large space between each of them , `` Positively the last appearance of Mr. Vincent Crummles of Provincial Celebrity !!! '' 
said Nicholas , turning back again . 
In one line by itself was an announcement of the first night of a new melo-drama ; in another line by itself was an announcement of the last six nights of an old one ; a third line was devoted to the re-engagement of the unrivalled African Knife-swallower , who had kindly suffered himself to be prevailed upon to forego his country engagements for one week longer ; a fourth line announced that Mr. Snittle Timberry , having recovered from his late severe indisposition , would have the honour of appearing that evening ; a fifth line said that there were `` Cheers , Tears , and Laughter ! '' 
`` Surely it must be the same man , '' thought Nicholas . 
The better to settle this question he referred to the bill again , and finding that there was a Baron in the first piece , and that Roberto -LRB- his son -RRB- was enacted by one Master Crummles , and Spaletro -LRB- his nephew -RRB- by one Master Percy Crummles -- their last appearances -- and that , incidental to the piece , was a characteristic dance by the characters , and a castanet pass seul by the Infant Phenomenon -- her last appearance -- he no longer entertained any doubt ; and presenting himself at the stage door , and sending in a scrap of paper with `` Mr. Johnson '' written thereon in pencil , was presently conducted by a Robber , with a very large belt and buckle round his waist , and very large leather gauntlets on his hands , into the presence of his former manager . 
`` I am sincerely obliged to her for her kindness in this and all other respects , '' said Nicholas . 
`` No , '' replied Nicholas . 
So saying , Mr. Crummles , after pretending that he thought he must have lost it , produced a square inch of newspaper from the pocket of the pantaloons he wore in private life -LRB- which , together with the plain clothes of several other gentlemen , lay scattered about on a kind of dresser in the room -RRB- , and gave it to Nicholas to read : -- `` The talented Vincent Crummles , long favourably known to fame as a country manager and actor of no ordinary pretensions , is about to cross the Atlantic on a histrionic expedition . 
Nicholas read it aloud . 
said Nicholas , `` that 's an odd paragraph . '' 
`` Very , '' returned Crummles , scratching the side of his nose , and looking at Nicholas with an assumption of great unconcern . 
Still keeping his eye on Nicholas , Mr. Crummles shook his head twice or thrice with profound gravity , and remarking , that he could not for the life of him imagine how the newspapers found out the things they did , folded up the extracts and put them in his pocket again . 
`` I am astonished to hear this news , '' said Nicholas . 
said Nicholas , smiling . 
`` I congratulate you , '' said Nicholas , `` and I hope this may prove a phenomenon too . '' 
While the ex-manager completed his toilet , he informed Nicholas that as he should have a fair start in America , from the proceeds of a tolerably good engagement which he had been fortunate enough to obtain , and as he and Mrs. Crummles could scarcely hope to act for ever -- not being immortal , except in the breath of Fame and in a figurative sense -- he had made up his mind to settle there permanently , in the hope of acquiring some land of his own which would support them in their old age , and which they could afterwards bequeath to their children . 
Nicholas , having highly commended this resolution , Mr. Crummles went on to impart such further intelligence relative to their mutual friends as he thought might prove interesting ; informing Nicholas , among other things , that Miss Snevellici was happily married to an affluent young wax-chandler who had supplied the theatre with candles , and that Mr. Lillyvick did n't dare to say his soul was his own , such was the tyrannical sway of Mrs. Lillyvick , who reigned paramount and supreme . 
Nicholas responded to this confidence on the part of Mr. Crummles , by confiding to him his own name , situation , and prospects , and informing him in as few general words as he could , of the circumstances which had led to their first acquaintance . 
After congratulating him with great heartiness on the improved state of his fortunes , Mr. Crummles gave him to understand that next morning he and his were to start for Liverpool , where the vessel lay which was to carry them from the shores of England , and that if Nicholas wished to take a last adieu of Mrs. Crummles , he must repair with him that night to a farewell-supper , given in honour of the family at a neighbouring tavern ; at which Mr. Snittle Timberry would preside , while the honours of the vice chair would be sustained by the African Swallower . 
The room being by this time very warm and somewhat crowded , in consequence of the influx of four gentlemen , who had just killed each other in the piece under representation , Nicholas accepted the invitation , and promised to return at the conclusion of the performances ; preferring the cool air and twilight out of doors to the mingled perfume of gas , orange-peel , and gunpowder , which pervaded the hot and glaring theatre . 
He availed himself of this interval to buy a silver snuff-box -- the best his funds would afford -- as a token of remembrance for Mr. Crummles , and having purchased besides a pair of ear-rings for Mrs. Crummles , a necklace for the Phenomenon , and a flaming shirt-pin for each of the young gentlemen , he refreshed himself with a walk , and returning a little after the appointed time , found the lights out , the theatre empty , the curtain raised for the night , and Mr. Crummles walking up and down the stage expecting his arrival . 
said Nicholas . 
Mr. Snittle Timberry now appeared , arm in arm with the African Swallower , and , being introduced to Nicholas , raised his hat half-a-foot , and said he was proud to know him . 
`` I see by the bills that you have been ill , sir , '' said Nicholas to Mr. Timberry . 
said Mrs. Crummles , when Nicholas was presented . 
`` Nor I , '' replied Nicholas . 
said Nicholas , forgetting at the instant that this had been Smike 's theatrical name . 
`` I fear , '' said Nicholas , shaking his head , and making an attempt to smile , `` that your better-half would be more struck with him now , than ever . '' 
`` I mean that a dastardly enemy of mine has struck at me through him , and that while he thinks to torture me , he inflicts on him such agonies of terror and suspense as -- You will excuse me , I am sure , '' said Nicholas , checking himself . 
With this hasty apology , Nicholas stooped down to salute the Phenomenon , and changed the subject ; inwardly cursing his precipitation , and very much wondering what Mrs. Crummles must think of so sudden an explosion . 
That lady seemed to think very little about it , for the supper being by this time on table , she gave her hand to Nicholas and repaired with a stately step to the left hand of Mr. Snittle Timberry . 
Nicholas had the honour to support her , and Mr. Crummles was placed upon the chairman 's right ; the Phenomenon and the Masters Crummleses sustained the vice . 
This gentleman sat on the left hand of Nicholas , to whom he was introduced by his friend the African Swallower , from the bottom of the table , with a high eulogium upon his fame and reputation . 
`` I am happy to know a gentleman of such great distinction , '' said Nicholas , politely . 
`` I have heard several , '' replied Nicholas , with a smile . 
rejoined Nicholas . 
said Nicholas . 
`` Shakspeare dramatised stories which had previously appeared in print , it is true , '' observed Nicholas . 
`` I was about to say , '' rejoined Nicholas , `` that Shakspeare derived some of his plots from old tales and legends in general circulation ; but it seems to me , that some of the gentlemen of your craft at the present day , have shot very far beyond him -- '' `` You 're quite right , sir , '' interrupted the literary gentleman , leaning back in his chair and exercising his toothpick . 
`` Human intellect , sir , has progressed since his time -- is progressing -- will progress -- '' `` Shot beyond him , I mean , '' resumed Nicholas , `` in quite another respect , for , whereas he brought within the magic circle of his genius , traditions peculiarly adapted for his purpose , and turned familiar things into constellations which should enlighten the world for ages , you drag within the magic circle of your dulness , subjects not at all adapted to the purposes of the stage , and debase as he exalted . 
`` Men must live , sir , '' said the literary gentleman , shrugging his shoulders . 
`` That would be an equally fair plea in both cases , '' replied Nicholas ; `` but if you put it upon that ground , I have nothing more to say , than , that if I were a writer of books , and you a thirsty dramatist , I would rather pay your tavern score for six months -- large as it might be -- than have a niche in the Temple of Fame with you for the humblest corner of my pedestal , through six hundred generations . '' 
This speedily engaged him in an animated conversation with that lady , in the interest of which , all recollection of his recent discussion with Nicholas very quickly evaporated . 
Nicholas waited to the last to give his little presents . 
When he had said good bye all round and came to Mr. Crummles , he could not but mark the difference between their present separation and their parting at Portsmouth . 
Not a jot of his theatrical manner remained ; he put out his hand with an air which , if he could have summoned it at will , would have made him the best actor of his day in homely parts , and when Nicholas shook it with the warmth he honestly felt , appeared thoroughly melted . 
Nicholas was about to return a cheerful reply , when he was greatly disconcerted by the sudden apparition of Mrs. Grudden , who it seemed had declined to attend the supper in order that she might rise earlier in the morning , and who now burst out of an adjoining bedroom , habited in very extraordinary white robes : and throwing her arms about his neck , hugged him with great affection . 
said Nicholas , submitting with as good a grace as if she had been the finest young creature in the world . 
Nicholas submitted to another hug with even a better grace than before , if that were possible , and waving his hat as cheerfully as he could , took farewell of the Vincent Crummleses . 
While Nicholas , absorbed in the one engrossing subject of interest which had recently opened upon him , occupied his leisure hours with thoughts of Madeline Bray , and , in execution of the commissions which the anxiety of Brother Charles in her behalf imposed upon him , saw her again and again , and each time with greater danger to his peace of mind and a more weakening effect upon the lofty resolutions he had formed , Mrs. Nickleby and Kate continued to live in peace and quiet , agitated by no other cares than those which were connected with certain harassing proceedings taken by Mr. Snawley for the recovery of his son , and their anxiety for Smike himself , whose health , long upon the wane , began to be so much affected by apprehension and uncertainty as sometimes to occasion both them and Nicholas considerable uneasiness , and even alarm . 
It was with some faint reference in his own mind to this disorder , though he would by no means admit it , even to himself , that Nicholas had already carried his faithful companion to a physician of great repute . 
There was no cause for immediate alarm , he said . 
But he seemed to grow no worse , and as it was not difficult to find a reason for these symptoms of illness in the shock and agitation he had recently undergone , Nicholas comforted himself with the hope that his poor friend would soon recover . 
This hope his mother and sister shared with him ; and as the object of their joint solicitude seemed to have no uneasiness or despondency for himself , but each day answered with a quiet smile that he felt better than he had upon the day before , their fears abated , and the general happiness was by degrees restored . 
Many and many a time in after years did Nicholas look back to this period of his life , and tread again the humble quiet homely scenes that rose up as of old before him . 
Many and many a time , in the twilight of a summer evening , or beside the flickering winter 's fire -- but not so often or so sadly then -- would his thoughts wander back to these old days , and dwell with a pleasant sorrow upon every slight remembrance which they brought crowding home . 
If the Brothers Cheeryble , as they found Nicholas worthy of trust and confidence , bestowed upon him every day some new and substantial mark of kindness , they were not less mindful of those who depended on him . 
Before Kate had returned any reply , a queer little double-knock announced that Miss La Creevy had called to see them ; and when Miss La Creevy presented herself , Mrs. Nickleby , though strongly disposed to be argumentative on the previous question , forgot all about it in a gush of supposes about the coach she had come by ; supposing that the man who drove must have been either the man in the shirt-sleeves or the man with the black eye ; that whoever he was , he had n't found that parasol she left inside last week ; that no doubt they had stopped a long while at the Halfway House , coming down ; or that perhaps being full , they had come straight on ; and lastly , that they surely must have passed Nicholas on the road . 
It can not be that he do n't like company , because he is always fond of people who are fond of Nicholas , and I am sure young Mr. Cheeryble is . 
`` I am so sorry Nicholas is not at home , '' said Mrs. Nickleby . 
`` Kate , my dear , you must be both Nicholas and yourself . '' 
`` Mr. Linkinwater says ten minutes , but I can not let you go so soon ; Nicholas would be very much vexed , I am sure . 
Nicholas did not come home , nor did Smike re-appear ; but neither circumstance , to say the truth , had any great effect upon the little party , who were all in the best humour possible . 
No , '' continued Mrs. Nickleby , drawing herself up , and looking another way with a kind of bashful stateliness ; `` this gentleman will understand me when I tell him that I repeat the answer I gave him the other day , -- that I always will repeat it , though I do believe him to be sincere when I find him placing himself in such dreadful situations on my account -- and that I request him to have the goodness to go away directly , or it will be impossible to keep his behaviour a secret from my son Nicholas . 
I told Nicholas -- I said to him , ` Nicholas , my dear , we should be very careful how we proceed . ' 
He would scarcely hear me . 
Quiet being again restored , a delicious half hour -- so Frank called it in the course of subsequent conversation with Tim Linkinwater as they were walking home -- a delicious half hour was spent in conversation , and Tim 's watch at length apprising him that it was high time to depart , the ladies were left alone , though not without many offers on the part of Frank to remain until Nicholas arrived , no matter what hour of the night it might be , if , after the late neighbourly irruption , they entertained the least fear of being left to themselves . 
As their freedom from all further apprehension , however , left no pretext for his insisting on mounting guard , he was obliged to abandon the citadel , and to retire with the trusty Tim . 
Nearly three hours of silence passed away , and Kate blushed to find when Nicholas returned , how long she had been sitting alone occupied with her own thoughts . 
`` They must have been pleasant thoughts , Kate , '' rejoined Nicholas gaily , `` to make time pass away like that . 
`` Why , Kate , '' said Nicholas , drawing his sister towards him and kissing her , `` let me see your face . 
There was something in this proposition , albeit it was said without the slightest consciousness or application , which so alarmed his sister , that Nicholas laughingly changed the subject to domestic matters , and thus gathered by degrees as they left the room and went up-stairs together , how lonely Smike had been all night -- and by very slow degrees , too , for on this subject also Kate seemed to speak with some reluctance . 
`` Poor fellow , '' said Nicholas , tapping gently at his door , `` what can be the cause of all this ! '' 
said Nicholas . 
Nicholas gently detained his sister , who made an effort to retire ; and asked , `` Why not ? '' 
rejoined Nicholas . 
inquired Nicholas , in his kindest manner ; `` or why not tell us the cause ? 
`` I do ; I know I do , '' he replied . 
He wrung Nicholas 's hand before he released it ; and glancing for a moment at the brother and sister as they stood together , as if there were something in their strong affection which touched him very deeply , withdrew into his chamber , and was soon the only watcher under that quiet roof . 
His companion said nothing , but there was that in his manner which galled Sir Mulberry to add , with nearly as much ferocity as if his friend had been Nicholas himself , `` I sent Jenkins to Nickleby before eight o'clock this morning . 
He 's a staunch one ; he was back with me before the messenger . 
I had it all from him in the first five minutes . 
But while he did this , and wore the most careless and indifferent deportment that his practised arts enabled him to assume , he inwardly resolved not only to visit all the mortification of being compelled to suppress his feelings , with additional severity upon Nicholas , but also to make the young lord pay dearly for it one day in some shape or other . 
So long as he had been a passive instrument in his hands , Sir Mulberry had regarded him with no other feeling than contempt ; but now that he presumed to avow opinions in opposition to his , and even to turn upon him with a lofty tone and an air of superiority , he began to hate him . 
Conscious that in the vilest and most worthless sense of the term , he was dependent upon the weak young lord , Sir Mulberry could the less brook humiliation at his hands , and when he began to dislike him he measured his dislike -- as men often do -- by the extent of the injuries he had inflicted upon its object . 
On the other hand , the young lord having thought -- which he very seldom did about anything -- having thought , and seriously too , upon the affair with Nicholas , and the circumstances which led to it , had arrived at a manly and honest conclusion . 
Sir Mulberry 's coarse and insulting behaviour on the occasion in question had produced a deep impression on his mind ; a strong suspicion of his having led him on to pursue Miss Nickleby for purposes of his own , had been lurking there for some time ; he was really ashamed of his share in the transaction , and deeply mortified by the misgiving that he had been gulled . 
He had had sufficient leisure to reflect upon these things during their late retirement , and at times when his careless and indolent nature would permit , had availed himself of the opportunity . 
Slight circumstances too had occurred to increase his suspicion . 
It wanted but a very slight circumstance to kindle his wrath against Sir Mulberry , and this his disdainful and insolent tone in their recent conversation -LRB- the only one they had held upon the subject since the period to which Sir Mulberry referred -RRB- effected . 
Thus they rejoined their friends , each with causes of dislike against the other rankling in his breast , and the young man haunted besides with thoughts of the vindictive retaliation which was threatened against Nicholas , and the determination to prevent it by some strong step , if possible . 
Sir Mulberry , conceiving that he had silenced him effectually , could not suppress his triumph , or forbear from following up what he conceived to be his advantage . 
When he was released at night , he proceeded with all the expedition he could use to the City , and took up his old position behind the pump , to watch for Nicholas -- for Newman Noggs was proud in his way , and could not bear to appear as his friend before the brothers Cheeryble , in the shabby and degraded state to which he was reduced . 
He had not occupied this position many minutes when he was rejoiced to see Nicholas approaching , and darted out from his ambuscade to meet him . 
Nicholas , on his part , was no less pleased to encounter his friend , whom he had not seen for some time , so their greeting was a warm one . 
`` I was thinking of you at that moment , '' said Nicholas . 
returned Nicholas , smiling at this odd communication . 
cried Nicholas ; `` am I interested ? '' 
I have found out a man , who , plainly knows more than he cares to tell at once , and he has already dropped such hints to me as puzzle me -- I say , as puzzle me , '' said Newman , scratching his red nose into a state of violent inflammation , and staring at Nicholas with all his might and main meanwhile . 
Admiring what could have wound his friend up to such a pitch of mystery , Nicholas endeavoured , by a series of questions , to elucidate the cause , but in vain . 
Remembering his companion 's propensity , -- of which his nose , indeed , perpetually warned all beholders like a beacon , -- Nicholas had drawn him into a sequestered tavern , and here they fell to reviewing the origin and progress of their acquaintance , as men sometimes do , and tracing out the little events by which it was most strongly marked , came at last to Miss Cecilia Bobster . 
said Nicholas . 
`` Bray , '' said Nicholas , in great astonishment . 
exclaimed Nicholas , starting up ; `` marriage ! 
`` Be careful what you say , '' replied Nicholas , `` for Heaven 's sake be careful . 
cried Nicholas . 
It was not an easy task to arrive at this information ; but after a great quantity of extraordinary pantomime which in no way assisted it , Nicholas , who was almost as wild as Newman Noggs himself , forced him down upon his seat and held him down until he began his tale . 
Finding that Newman was determined to arrest his progress at any hazard , and apprehensive that some well-intentioned passenger attracted by the cry of `` stop thief , '' might really lay violent hands upon his person , and place him in a disagreeable predicament from which he might have some difficulty in extricating himself , Nicholas soon slackened his pace , and suffered Newman Noggs to come up with him , which he did in so breathless a condition that it seemed impossible he could have held out for a minute longer . 
`` I will go straight to Bray 's , '' said Nicholas . 
`` Then , '' said Nicholas , pressing onward , `` I will act upon my first impulse , and go straight to Ralph Nickleby . '' 
`` I 'll drag him from it , '' cried Nicholas , fiercely . 
`` You are the best of friends to me , Newman , '' rejoined Nicholas after a pause , and taking his hand as he spoke . 
`` There seems no ray of hope , '' said Nicholas . 
said Nicholas , `` the sea is between us and them . 
rejoined Nicholas . 
`` There is none , '' said Nicholas , in utter dejection . 
Nicholas needed encouragement , for the suddenness with which intelligence of the two usurers ' plans had come upon him , the little time which remained for exertion , the probability , almost amounting to certainty itself , that a few hours would place Madeline Bray for ever beyond his reach , consign her to unspeakable misery , and perhaps to an untimely death : all this quite stunned and overwhelmed him . 
Every hope connected with her that he had suffered himself to form , or had entertained unconsciously , seemed to fall at his feet withered and dead . 
Every charm with which his memory or imagination had surrounded her , presented itself before him only to heighten his anguish and add new bitterness to his despair . 
Every feeling of sympathy for her forlorn condition , and of admiration for her heroism and fortitude , aggravated the indignation which shook him in every limb , and swelled his heart almost to bursting . 
But if Nicholas 's own heart embarrassed him , Newman 's came to his relief . 
There was so much earnestness in his remonstrance , and such sincerity and fervour in his manner , odd and ludicrous as it always was , that it imparted to Nicholas new firmness , and enabled him to say , after he had walked on for some little way in silence , `` You read me a good lesson , Newman , and I will profit by it . 
`` To see the daughter , Newman , '' replied Nicholas . 
`` And I do declare , '' cried Nicholas , with honest enthusiasm , `` that in this effort I am influenced by no selfish or personal considerations , but by pity for her and detestation and abhorrence of this heartless scheme ; and that I would do the same were there twenty rivals in the field , and I the last and least favoured of them all . '' 
`` Homewards , '' answered Nicholas . 
`` I can not walk to-night , Newman , '' returned Nicholas , hurriedly . 
Without waiting for a reply , he darted off at a rapid pace , and plunging into the crowds which thronged the street , was quickly lost to view . 
''' With that settled resolution and steadiness of purpose to which extreme circumstances so often give birth , acting upon far less excitable and more sluggish temperaments than that which was the lot of Madeline Bray 's admirer , Nicholas started , at dawn of day , from the restless couch which no sleep had visited on the previous night , and prepared to make that last appeal by whose slight and fragile thread her only remaining hope of escape depended . 
So thought Nicholas , when , with the impatience natural to a situation like his , he softly left the house , and feeling as though to remain in bed were to lose most precious time , and to be up and stirring were in some way to promote the end he had in view , he wandered into London , although perfectly well knowing that for hours to come he could not obtain speech with Madeline , and could do nothing but wish the intervening time away . 
And even now , as he paced the streets and listlessly looked round on the gradually increasing bustle and preparation for the day , everything appeared to yield him some new occasion for despondency . 
Last night the sacrifice of a young , affectionate , and beautiful creature to such a wretch and in such a cause , had seemed a thing too monstrous to succeed , and the warmer he grew the more confident he felt that some interposition must save her from his clutches . 
But now , when he thought how regularly things went on from day to day in the same unvarying round -- how youth and beauty died , and ugly griping age lived tottering on -- how crafty avarice grew rich , and manly honest hearts were poor and sad -- how few they were who tenanted the stately houses , and how many those who lay in noisome pens , or rose each day and laid them down at night , and lived and died , father and son , mother and child , race upon race , and generation upon generation , without a home to shelter them or the energies of one single man directed to their aid -- how in seeking , not a luxurious and splendid life , but the bare means of a most wretched and inadequate subsistence , there were women and children in that one town , divided into classes , numbered and estimated as regularly as the noble families and folks of great degree , and reared from infancy to drive most criminal and dreadful trades -- how ignorance was punished and never taught -- how jail-door gaped and gallows loomed for thousands urged towards them by circumstances darkly curtaining their very cradles ' heads , and but for which they might have earned their honest bread and lived in peace -- how many died in soul , and had no chance of life -- how many who could scarcely go astray , be they vicious as they would , turned haughtily from the crushed and stricken wretch who could scarce do otherwise , and who would have been a greater wonder had he or she done well , than even they , had they done ill -- how much injustice , and misery , and wrong there was , and yet how the world rolled on from year to year , alike careless and indifferent , and no man seeking to remedy or redress it : -- when he thought of all this , and selected from the mass the one slight case on which his thoughts were bent , he felt indeed that there was little ground for hope , and little cause or reason why it should not form an atom in the huge aggregate of distress and sorrow , and add one small and unimportant unit to swell the great amount . 
By dint of reflecting on what he had to do and reviving the train of thought which night had interrupted , Nicholas gradually summoned up his utmost energy , and by the time the morning was sufficiently advanced for his purpose , had no thought but that of using it to the best advantage . 
A hasty breakfast taken , and such affairs of business as required prompt attention disposed of , he directed his steps to the residence of Madeline Bray , whither he lost no time in arriving . 
It had occurred to him that very possibly the young lady might be denied , although to him she never had been ; and he was still pondering upon the surest method of obtaining access to her in that case , when , coming to the door of the house , he found it had been left ajar -- probably by the last person who had gone out . 
The occasion was not one upon which to observe the nicest ceremony ; therefore , availing himself of this advantage , Nicholas walked gently up stairs and knocked at the door of the room into which he had been accustomed to be shown . 
Receiving permission to enter from some person on the other side , he opened the door and walked in . 
It was nearly three weeks since he had seen her last , but there was a change in the lovely girl before him which told Nicholas , in startling terms , what mental suffering had been compressed into that short time . 
There are no words which can express , nothing with which can be compared , the perfect pallor , the clear transparent cold ghastly whiteness , of the beautiful face which turned towards him when he entered . 
This was one , for Nicholas had but glanced round him when he was recognised by Mr. Bray , who said impatiently , `` Now , Sir , what do you want ? 
Nicholas could very well discern that the irritability and impatience of this speech were assumed , and that Bray in his heart was rejoiced at any interruption which promised to engage the attention of his daughter . 
She rose , and advancing towards Nicholas paused half way , and stretched out her hand as expecting a letter . 
`` Miss Bray expects an enclosure perhaps , '' said Nicholas , speaking very distinctly , and with an emphasis she could scarcely misunderstand . 
`` I suppose you think now , '' said Bray , wheeling his chair round and confronting Nicholas , `` that but for such pitiful sums as you bring here because my daughter has chosen to employ her time as she has , we should starve ? '' 
`` I have not thought about it , '' returned Nicholas . 
`` My business , '' said Nicholas respectfully , `` is with a lady . '' 
Nicholas understood the tone of triumph and the sneer in which this interrogatory was put , but remembering the necessity of supporting his assumed character , produced a scrap of paper purporting to contain a list of some subjects for drawings which his employer desired to have executed ; and with which he had prepared himself in case of any such contingency . 
`` Since you insist upon the term , Sir -- yes , '' replied Nicholas . 
thought Nicholas indignantly . 
The father was too much absorbed with his own exultation to mark the look of scorn which for an instant Nicholas would not have suppressed had he been upon the rack . 
`` There , '' he continued , after a short silence , `` you have your message and can retire -- unless you have any further -- ha ! 
`` I have none , '' said Nicholas sternly ; `` neither in consideration of the station you once held , have I used that or any other word which , however harmless in itself , could be supposed to imply authority on my part or dependence on yours . 
He fell into a paroxysm of his disorder , so violent that for a few moments Nicholas was alarmed for his life ; but finding that he began to recover , he withdrew , after signifying by a gesture to the young lady that he had something important to communicate , and would wait for her outside the room . 
He could hear that the sick man came gradually but slowly to himself , and that without any reference to what had just occurred , as though he had no distinct recollection of it as yet , he requested to be left alone . 
thought Nicholas , `` that this slender chance might not be lost , and that I might prevail if it were but for one week 's time and re-consideration ! '' 
`` It will be too late -- too late for what I have to say , '' rejoined Nicholas , `` and you will not be here . 
She attempted to pass him , but Nicholas gently detained her . 
`` A hearing , '' said Nicholas . 
The poor attendant with her eyes swollen and red with weeping stood by , and to her Nicholas appealed in such passionate terms that she opened a side-door , and supporting her mistress into an adjoining room beckoned Nicholas to follow them . 
`` I can not , will not leave you thus , '' returned Nicholas . 
`` I speak of this marriage , '' returned Nicholas , `` of this marriage , fixed for to-morrow by one who never faltered in a bad purpose , or lent his aid to any good design ; of this marriage , the history of which is known to me , better , far better , than it is to you . 
`` Say rather with the help of devils , '' replied Nicholas , `` with the help of men , one of them your destined husband , who are -- '' `` I must not hear this , '' cried the young lady , striving to repress a shudder , occasioned , as it seemed , even by this slight allusion to Arthur Gride . 
`` Not until I have besought you , with all the earnestness and fervour by which I am animated , '' cried Nicholas , `` to postpone this marriage for one short week . 
Long before Nicholas ceased to speak , the young lady buried her face in her hands , and gave her tears free way . 
In a voice at first inarticulate with emotion , but gradually recovering strength as she proceeded , she answered him , `` I will not disguise from you , Sir -- though perhaps I ought -- that I have undergone great pain of mind , and have been nearly broken-hearted since I saw you last . 
`` Your tears fall faster as you talk of happiness , '' said Nicholas , `` and you shun the contemplation of that dark future which must come laden with so much misery to you . 
`` These are but tricks and wiles to urge you on , '' cried Nicholas . 
She was hurrying past Nicholas , when he threw himself before her , and implored her to think but once again upon the fate to which she was precipitately hastening . 
`` There is no retreat , '' said Nicholas , in an agony of supplication `` no withdrawing ; all regret will be unavailing , and deep and bitter it must be . 
`` If this were a plot , '' said Nicholas , with the same violent rapidity with which she spoke , `` a plot , not yet laid bare by me , but which , with time , I might unravel , if you were -LRB- not knowing it -RRB- entitled to fortune of your own , which being recovered , would do all that this marriage can accomplish , would you not retract ? '' 
`` It may be the last time we shall ever meet on earth , '' said Nicholas , `` it may be better for me that we should never meet more . '' 
She was gone , and Nicholas , staggering from the house , thought of the hurried scene which had just closed upon him , as if it were the phantom of some wild , unquiet dream . 
The day wore on ; at night , having been enabled in some measure to collect his thoughts , he issued forth again . 
That night , being the last of Arthur Gride 's bachelorship , found him in tip-top spirits and great glee . 
Peg Sliderskew had rendered the accounts of her past housekeeping ; the eighteenpence had been rigidly accounted for -LRB- she was never trusted with a larger sum at once , and the accounts were not usually balanced more than twice a-day -RRB- , every preparation had been made for the coming festival , and Arthur might have sat down and contemplated his approaching happiness , but that he preferred sitting down and contemplating the entries in a dirty old vellum-book with rusty clasps . 
he chuckled , as sinking on his knees before a strong chest screwed down to the floor , he thrust in his arm nearly up to the shoulder , and slowly drew forth this greasy volume , `` Well-a-day now , this is all my library , but it 's one of the most entertaining books that were ever written ; it 's a delightful book , and all true and real -- that 's the best of it -- true as the Bank of England , and real as its gold and silver . 
Muttering this soliloquy , Arthur carried his precious volume to the table , and adjusting it upon a dusty desk , put on his spectacles , and began to pore among the leaves . 
`` It 's a large sum to Mr. Nickleby , '' he said , in a dolorous voice . 
These reflections depressed the old usurer so much as to wring a feeble groan or two from his breast , and cause him to declare with uplifted hands that he would die in a workhouse . 
Remembering on further cogitation , however , that under any circumstances he must have paid , or handsomery compounded for , Ralph 's debt , and being by no means confident that he would have succeeded had he undertaken his enterprise alone , he regained his equanimity , and chattered and mowed over more satisfactory items until the entrance of Peg Sliderskew interrupted him . 
said Nicholas -LRB- for Nicholas it was -RRB- , as he observed a gesture of alarm on the part of Gride . 
`` No matter how , '' replied Nicholas , `` I know it . 
Gride looked at him as if he were petrified with astonishment , but did not speak , perhaps lacking the powers . 
`` You and another man , Ralph Nickleby by name , have hatched this plot between you , '' pursued Nicholas , `` you pay him for his share in bringing about this sale of Madeline Bray . 
He paused , but Arthur making no reply , resumed again . 
He paused again , and still Arthur Gride glared upon him in silence . 
`` If you were a man to whom I could appeal with any hope of touching his compassion or humanity , '' said Nicholas , `` I would urge upon you to remember the helplessness , the innocence , the youth of this lady , her worth and beauty , her filial excellence , and last , and more than all as concerning you more nearly , the appeal she has made to your mercy and your manly feeling . 
Old Arthur Gride moved his lips , but they only formed an ugly smile and were motionless again . 
`` You think , '' said Nicholas , `` that the price would not be paid . 
When Nicholas began , Arthur Gride 's impression was that Ralph Nickleby had betrayed him ; but as he proceeded he felt convinced that however he had come by the knowledge he possessed , the part he acted was a genuine one , and that with Ralph he had no concern . 
`` And even if money were to be had , '' thought Arthur Gride , as he glanced at Nicholas , and trembled with passion at his boldness and audacity , `` I 'd have that dainty chick for my wife , and cheat you of her , young smooth-face . '' 
Long habit of weighing and noting well what clients said , and nicely balancing chances in his mind and calculating odds to their faces , without the least appearance of being so engaged , had rendered Gride quick in forming conclusions and arriving , from puzzling , intricate , and often contradictory premises , at very cunning deductions . 
Hence it was that as Nicholas went on he followed him closely with his own constructions , and when he ceased to speak was as well prepared as if he had deliberated for a fortnight . 
`` I hear you , '' he cried , starting from his seat , casting back the fastenings of the window-shutters , and throwing up the sash . 
said Nicholas , seizing him by the arm . 
`` I 'll cry robbers , thieves , murder , alarm the neighbourhood , struggle with you , let loose some blood , and swear you came to rob me if you do n't quit my house , '' replied Gride , drawing in his head with a frightful grin , `` I will . '' 
cried Nicholas . 
said Gride , whom jealousy of Nicholas and a sense of his own triumph had converted into a perfect fiend . 
said Nicholas , choking with his rage . 
said Nicholas , `` if you were but a younger man -- '' `` Oh yes ! '' 
`` Hear me , '' said Nicholas , `` and be thankful I have enough command over myself not to fling you into the street , which no aid could prevent my doing if I once grappled with you . 
This taunt brought such an expression into the face of Nicholas , that Arthur Gride plainly apprehended it to be the forerunner of his putting his threat of throwing him into the street in immediate execution , for he thrust his head out of the window , and holding tight on with both hands , raised a pretty brisk alarm . 
Not thinking it necessary to abide the issue of the noise , Nicholas gave vent to an indignant defiance , and stalked from the room and from the house . 
Arthur Gride watched him across the street , and then drawing in his head , fastened the window as before , and sat down to take breath . 
`` If she ever turns pettish or ill-humoured , I 'll taunt her with that spark , '' he said , when he had recovered . 
When he had become restored to his usual condition by these and other comments on his approaching triumph , Arthur Gride put away his book , and having locked up the chest with great caution , descended into the kitchen to warn Peg Sliderskew to bed , and to scold her for having afforded such ready admission to a stranger . 
Mr. Nickleby was often angry at my talking to him before we got outside the door . 
I must n't tell him that part of the business , or he 'll put me out of sorts and make me nervous for the day . '' 
To Ralph Nickleby 's , Arthur Gride now betook himself according to appointment , and to Ralph Nickleby he related how that last night some young blustering blade , whom he had never seen , forced his way into his house and tried to frighten him from the proposed nuptials : -- told in short , what Nicholas had said and done , with the slight reservation upon which he had determined . 
`` He tried to frighten you ? '' 
`` I frightened him by crying thieves and murder , '' replied Gride . 
`` Once I was in earnest , I tell you that , for I had more than half a mind to swear he uttered threats and demanded my life or my money . '' 
Gride shambled forward , and stood leering and bowing close by Ralph 's side , when the door opened and there entered in haste -- not Bray and his daughter , but Nicholas and his sister Kate . 
The absence of all colour from the face , the dilated nostril , the quivering of the lips which though set firmly against each other would not be still , showed what fierce emotions were struggling for the mastery with Nicholas . 
But he kept them down , and gently pressing Kate 's arm to re-assure her , stood erect and undaunted front to front with his unworthy relative . 
`` I come here , '' said Nicholas in a low deep voice , `` to save your victim if I can . 
`` To offer to the unhappy subject of your treachery at this last moment , '' replied Nicholas , `` a refuge and a home . 
`` If you value your head , '' said Nicholas , taking up a position before the door , and speaking in the same low voice in which he had spoken before , and with no more outward passion than he had before displayed `` stay where you are . '' 
`` Mind yourself rather than either of us , and stay where you are , '' said Nicholas . 
`` Remember that you come near me at your peril , '' said Nicholas . 
Nicholas with his eyes darting fire seized him by the collar . 
cried Nicholas , letting loose all the violent passion he had restrained till now , `` if this is what I scarcely dare to hope it is , you are caught , villains , in your own toils . '' 
He burst from the room , and darting up stairs to the quarter from whence the noise proceeded , forced his way through a crowd of persons who quite filled a small bedchamber , and found Bray lying on the floor quite dead , and his daughter clinging to the body . 
said Nicholas , hastily . 
An elderly woman was pointed out to him ; and to her he said , as he knelt down and gently unwound Madeline 's arms from the lifeless mass round which they were entwined : `` I represent this lady 's nearest friends as her servant here knows , and must remove her from this dreadful scene . 
The people fell back , scarce wondering more at what had just occurred , than at the excitement and impetuosity of him who spoke , and Nicholas , taking the insensible girl in his arms , bore her from the chamber and down stairs into the room he had just quitted , followed by his sister and the faithful servant , whom he charged to procure a coach directly , while he and Kate bent over their beautiful charge and endeavoured , but in vain , to restore her to animation . 
Ralph Nickleby and Gride , stunned and paralysed by the awful event which had so suddenly overthrown their schemes -LRB- it would not otherwise , perhaps , have made much impression on them -RRB- , and carried away by the extraordinary energy and precipitation of Nicholas , which bore down all before them , looked on at these proceedings like men in a dream or trance . 
cried Nicholas , starting from his knee and confronting them , but still retaining Madeline 's lifeless hand in his . 
cried the terrified Gride , catching him by the arm again . 
said Nicholas , extending his disengaged hand in the air , `` hear what he says . 
`` That man claims what is not his , and he should not have her if he were fifty men , with fifty more to back him , '' said Nicholas . 
`` By this right -- that , knowing what I do , you dare not tempt me further , '' said Nicholas , `` and by this better right , that those I serve , and with whom you would have done me base wrong and injury . 
`` Not one , '' replied Nicholas , `` I will not hear of one -- save this . 
Nicholas swung him away with such violence as to cause him to spin round the room until he was caught by a sharp angle of the wall and there knocked down ; and then taking his beautiful burden in his arms rushed violently out . 
No one cared to stop him , if any were so disposed . 
Making his way through a mob of people , whom a report of the circumstances had attracted round the house , and carrying Madeline in his great excitement as easily as if she were an infant , he reached the coach in which Kate and the girl were already waiting , and confiding his charge to them , jumped up beside the coachman and bade him drive away . 
Although Mrs. Nickleby had been made acquainted by her son and daughter with every circumstance of Madeline Bray 's history which was known to them ; although the responsible situation in which Nicholas stood had been carefully explained to her , and she had been prepared even for the possible contingency of having to receive the young lady in her own house -- improbable as such a result had appeared only a few minutes before it came about -- still , Mrs. Nickleby , from the moment when this confidence was first reposed in her late on the previous evening , had remained in an unsatisfactory and profoundly mystified state , from which no explanations or arguments could relieve her , and which every fresh soliloquy and reflection only aggravated more and more . 
`` Bless my heart , Kate , '' so the good lady argued , `` if the Mr. Cheerybles do n't want this young lady to be married , why do n't they file a bill against the Lord Chancellor , make her a chancery ward , and shut her up in the Fleet prison for safety -- I have read of such things in the newspapers a hundred times ; or , if they are so very fond of her as Nicholas says they are , why do n't they marry her themselves -- one of them I mean . 
And even supposing they do n't want her to be married , and do n't want to marry her themselves , why in the name of wonder should Nicholas go about the world forbidding people 's banns ? '' 
I am not to be held accountable for that ; though at the same time , as the circumstances speak for themselves , I shall take the liberty , my love , of saying that I do understand them , and perfectly well too , whatever you and Nicholas may choose to think to the contrary . 
In this frame of mind -LRB- expressed when she had become too resigned for speech , by nods of the head , upliftings of the eyes , and little beginnings of groans , converted as they attracted attention into short coughs -RRB- , Mrs. Nickleby remained until Nicholas and Kate returned with the object of their solicitude ; when , having by this time asserted her own importance , and becoming besides interested in the trials of one so young and beautiful , she not only displayed the utmost zeal and solicitude , but took great credit to herself for recommending the course of procedure which her son had adopted ; frequently declaring with an expressive look , that it was very fortunate things were as they were , and hinting , that but for great encouragement and wisdom on her own part , they never could have been brought to that pass . 
The brothers , upon their return , bestowed such commendations upon Nicholas for the part he had taken , and evinced so much joy at the altered state of events and the recovery of their young friend from trials so great and dangers so threatening , that , as she more than once informed her daughter , she now considered the fortunes of the family `` as good as '' made . 
What wonder , if with every hour of returning health , there came some stronger and sweeter recognition of the praises which Kate , when they recalled old scenes -- they seemed old now , and to have been acted years ago -- would lavish on her brother ; where would have been the wonder even if those praises had found a quick response in the breast of Madeline , and if , with the image of Nicholas so constantly recurring in the features of his sister that she could scarcely separate the two , she had sometimes found it equally difficult to assign to each the feelings they had first inspired , and had imperceptibly mingled with her gratitude to Nicholas , some of that warmer feeling which she had assigned to Kate ? 
Kate would take this reproof very quietly , and Mrs. Nickleby , making every board creak , and every thread rustle as she moved stealthily about , would add -- `` My son Nicholas has just come home , and I have come , according to custom , my dear , to know from your own lips exactly how you are , for he wo n't take my account , and never will . '' 
`` He is later than usual to-night , '' perhaps Madeline would reply . 
I had not the least idea that Nicholas was after his time -- not the smallest . 
If I said lobsters , I meant oysters , but of course it 's all the same , though really how you came to know about Nicholas -- '' `` We happened to be just talking about him , mama ; that was it . '' 
With that , Mrs. Nickleby would draw up a chair , and for some three quarters of an hour run through a great variety of distracting topics in the most distracting manner possible : tearing herself away at length on the plea that she must now go and amuse Nicholas while he took his supper . 
After a preliminary raising of his spirits with the information that she considered the patient decidedly worse , she would further cheer him up by relating how dull , listless , and low-spirited Miss Bray was , because Kate foolishly talked about nothing else but him and family matters . 
When she had made Nicholas thoroughly comfortable with these and other inspiriting remarks , she would discourse at length on the arduous duties she had performed that day , and sometimes be moved to tears in wondering how , if anything were to happen to herself , the family would ever get on without her . 
At other times when Nicholas came home at night , he would be accompanied by Mr. Frank Cheeryble , who was commissioned by the brothers to inquire how Madeline was that evening . 
On such occasions -LRB- and they were of very frequent occurrence -RRB- , Mrs. Nickleby deemed it of particular importance that she should have her wits about her ; for from certain signs and tokens which had attracted her attention , she shrewdly suspected that Mr. Frank , interested as his uncles were in Madeline , came quite as much to see Kate as to inquire after her ; the more especially as the brothers were in constant communication with the medical man , came backwards and forwards very frequently themselves , and received a full report from Nicholas every morning . 
At other times , when Nicholas was not there to overhear , and Kate was up stairs busily tending her sick friend , the worthy lady would throw out dark hints of an intention to send her to France for three or four years , or to Scotland for the improvement of her health , impaired by her late fatigues , or to America on a visit , or anywhere that threatened a long and tedious separation . 
`` You are quite right , mother , '' said Nicholas , `` quite right . 
`` Decidedly good-looking , '' answered Nicholas . 
pursued Mrs. Nickleby , wishing to interest Nicholas in the subject to the utmost . 
repeated Nicholas . 
returned his mother , `` what style of nose -- what order of architecture , if one may say so . 
`` Upon my word , mother , '' said Nicholas , laughing , `` as well as I remember , I should call it a kind of Composite , or mixed nose . 
`` Very well , '' returned Nicholas . 
Nicholas returned to the perusal of the book he had been reading , when the dialogue had gone thus far . 
`` He is very much attached to you , Nicholas , my dear . '' 
Nicholas laughingly said , as he closed his book , that he was glad to hear it , and observed that his mother seemed deep in their new friend 's confidence already . 
`` I do n't know about that , my dear , but I think it is very necessary that somebody should be in his confidence -- highly necessary . '' 
Elated by a look of curiosity from her son , and the consciousness of possessing a great secret all to herself , Mrs. Nickleby went on with great animation : `` I am sure , my dear Nicholas , how you can have failed to notice it is to me quite extraordinary ; though I do n't know why I should say that either , because of course as far as it goes , and to a certain extent , there is a great deal in this sort of thing , especially in this early stage , which however clear it may be to females , can scarcely be expected to be so evident to men . 
Nicholas snuffed the candles , put his hands in his pockets , and leaning back in his chair , assumed a look of patient suffering and melancholy resignation . 
`` I think it 's my duty , Nicholas , my dear , '' resumed his mother , `` to tell you what I know , not only because you have a right to know it too , and to know everything that happens in this family , but because you have it in your power to promote and assist the thing very much ; and there is no doubt that the sooner one can come to a clear understanding upon such subjects , it is always better every way . 
These seem very slight things , and I dare say you will be amused at my making them of so much importance ; at the same time , my dear , I can assure you -LRB- and you 'll find this out , Nicholas , for yourself on of these days , if you ever fall in love with anybody , as I trust and hope you will , provided she is respectable and well conducted , and of course you 'd never dream of falling in love with anybody who was not -RRB- , I say , I can assure you that a great deal more depends upon these little things than you would suppose possible . 
cried Nicholas . 
`` Lord , Nicholas ! '' 
`` Dear mother , '' said Nicholas , `` surely it ca n't be . '' 
Nicholas had never , until that moment , bestowed one thought upon the remote possibility of such an occurrence as that which was now communicated to him ; for , besides that he had been much from home of late and closely occupied with other matters , his own jealous fears had prompted the suspicion that some secret interest in Madeline , akin to that which he felt himself , occasioned those visits of Frank Cheeryble which had recently become so frequent . 
`` I am very much disturbed by what you tell me , '' said Nicholas , after a little reflection , `` though I yet hope you may be mistaken . '' 
inquired Nicholas . 
During this sickness , she has been constantly at Madeline 's bedside -- never were two people so fond of each other as they have grown -- and to tell you the truth , Nicholas , I have rather kept her away now and then , because I think it 's a good plan , and urges a young man on . 
She said this with such a mingling of high delight and self-congratulation , that it was inexpressibly painful to Nicholas to dash her hopes ; but he felt that there was only one honourable course before him , and that he was bound to take it . 
`` Dear mother , '' he said kindly , `` do n't you see that if there really were any serious inclination on the part of Mr. Frank towards Kate , and we suffered ourselves for one moment to encourage it , we should be acting a most dishonourable and ungrateful part ? 
`` No , '' said Nicholas , `` and for that very reason poverty should engender an honest pride , that it may not lead and tempt us to unworthy actions , and that we may preserve the self-respect which a hewer of wood and drawer of water may maintain -- and does better in maintaining than a monarch his . 
`` Why , to be sure , that would place him in a better situation with them , '' said Nicholas , `` but we should still be open to the same suspicions , the distance between us would still be as great , the advantages to be gained would still be as manifest as now . 
We may be reckoning without our host in all this , '' he added more cheerfully , `` and I trust , and almost believe we are . 
After many more representations and entreaties , Nicholas obtained a promise from Mrs. Nickleby that she would try all she could to think as he did , and that if Mr. Frank persevered in his attentions she would endeavour to discourage them , or , at the least , would render him no countenance or assistance . 
Nicholas was warned by the same medical authority to whom he had at first appealed , that the last chance and hope of his life depended on his being instantly removed from London . 
That part of Devonshire in which Nicholas had been himself bred when a boy , was named as the most favourable spot ; but this advice was cautiously coupled with the information , that whoever accompanied him thither must be prepared for the worst , for every token of rapid consumption had appeared , and he might never return alive . 
That same morning , Nicholas was summoned by brother Charles into his private room , and thus addressed : `` My dear sir , no time must be lost . 
Brother Ned , my dear fellow , Mr. Nickleby waits to shake hands and say good bye ; Mr. Nickleby wo n't be long gone ; this poor chap will soon get better -- very soon get better -- and then he 'll find out some nice homely country people to leave him with , and go backwards and forwards sometimes -- backwards and forwards you know , Ned -- and there 's no cause to be down-hearted , for he 'll very soon get better , very soon , wo n't he -- wo n't he , Ned ? '' 
Next morning Nicholas and his feeble companion began their journey . 
`` See , '' cried Nicholas eagerly , as he looked from the coach window , `` they are at the corner of the lane still ! 
cried his trembling companion , falling back in his seat and covering his eyes . 
said Nicholas earnestly . 
He whom he thus encouraged , raised his withered hands and clasped them fervently together . 
For a moment he shook his clasped fist stealthily and savagely towards the door by which Nicholas had disappeared , and then thrusting it into his breast as if to repress by force even this show of passion , turned round and confronted the less hardy usurer , who had not yet risen from the ground . 
The cowering wretch , who still shook in every limb , and whose few grey hairs trembled and quivered on his head with abject dismay , tottered to his feet as he met Ralph 's eye , and shielding his face with both hands , protested while he crept towards the door that it was no fault of his . 
As Mr. Squeers could only answer this proposition by shrugs and smiles , Ralph sternly bade him be silent , and thankful that he was so well off , and then fixing his eyes steadily upon him , proceeded to say -- First , that Nicholas had thwarted him in a plan he had formed for the disposal in marriage of a certain young lady , and had , in the confusion attendant upon her father 's sudden death , secured that lady himself and borne her off in triumph . 
Secondly , that by some will or settlement -- certainly by some instrument in writing , which must contain the young lady 's name , and could be therefore easily selected from others , if access to the place where it was deposited were once secured -- she was entitled to property which , if the existence of this deed ever became known to her , would make her husband -LRB- and Ralph represented that Nicholas was certain to marry her -RRB- a rich and prosperous man , and most formidable enemy . 
Thirdly , that this deed had been , with others , stolen from one who had himself obtained or concealed it fraudulently , and who feared to take any steps for its recovery ; and that he -LRB- Ralph -RRB- knew the thief . 
In addition to these influences and persuasions , Ralph drew , with his utmost skill and power , a vivid picture of the defeat which Nicholas would sustain should they succeed , in linking himself to a beggar where he expected to wed an heiress -- glanced at the immeasurable importance it must be to a man situated as Squeers , to preserve such a friend as himself -- dwelt on a long train of benefits conferred since their first acquaintance , when he had reported favourably of his treatment of a sickly boy who had died under his hands -LRB- and whose death was very convenient to Ralph and his clients , but this he did not say -RRB- , and finally hinted that the fifty pounds might be increased to seventy-five , or in the event of very great success , even to a hundred . 
Being answered in the affirmative , he became restless again , and after some thought , and an unsuccessful inquiry `` whether he could n't go another fifty , '' said he supposed he must try and do the most he could for a friend , which was always his maxim , and therefore he undertook the job . 
That 's the worst of ever being in with a ow-dacious chap like that old Nickleby ; you never know when he 's done with you , and if you 're in for a penny , you 're in for a pound . '' 
He 's out of everybody 's depth , he is . 
He 's what you may a-call a rasper , is Nickleby . 
To see how sly and cunning he grubbed on , day after day , a-worming and plodding and tracing and turning and twining of hisself about , till he found out where this precious Mrs. Peg was hid , and cleared the ground for me to work upon -- creeping and crawling and gliding , like a ugly old , bright-eyed , stagnation-blooded adder ! 
He 'd have made a good un in our line , but it would have been too limited for him ; his genius would have busted all bounds , and coming over every obstacle , broke down all before it , 'till it erected itself into a monneyment of -- Well , I 'll think of the rest , and say it when conwenient . '' 
Dividing the distance into two days ' journey , in order that his charge might sustain the less exhaustion and fatigue from travelling so far , Nicholas , at the end of the second day from their leaving home , found himself within a very few miles of the spot where the happiest years of his life had been passed , and which , while it filled his mind with pleasant and peaceful thoughts , brought back many painful and vivid recollections of the circumstances in which he and his had wandered forth from their old home , cast upon the rough world and the mercy of strangers . 
It needed no such reflections as those which the memory of old days , and wanderings among scenes where our childhood has been passed , usually awaken in the most insensible minds , to soften the heart of Nicholas , and render him more than usually mindful of his drooping friend . 
By night and day , at all times and seasons , always watchful , attentive , and solicitous , and never varying in the discharge of his self-imposed duty to one so friendless and helpless as he whose sands of life were now fast running out and dwindling rapidly away , he was ever at his side . 
He never left him ; to encourage and animate him , administer to his wants , support and cheer him to the utmost of his power , was now his constant and unceasing occupation . 
They procured a humble lodging in a small farm-house , surrounded by meadows , where Nicholas had often revelled when a child with a troop of merry schoolfellows ; and here they took up their rest . 
At first , Smike was strong enough to walk about for short distances at a time , with no other support or aid than that which Nicholas could afford him . 
At this time , nothing appeared to interest him so much as visiting those places which had been most familiar to his friend in bygone days . 
Yielding to this fancy , and pleased to find that its indulgence beguiled the sick boy of many tedious hours , and never failed to afford him matter for thought and conversation afterwards , Nicholas made such spots the scenes of their daily rambles : driving him from place to place in a little pony-chair , and supporting him on his arm while they walked slowly among these old haunts , or lingered in the sunlight to take long parting looks of those which were most quiet and beautiful . 
It was on such occasions as these , that Nicholas , yielding almost unconsciously to the interest of old associations , would point out some tree that he had climbed a hundred times to peep at the young birds in their nest , and the branch from which he used to shout to little Kate , who stood below terrified at the height he had gained , and yet urging him higher still by the intensity of her admiration . 
There was the old house too , which they would pass every day , looking up at the tiny window through which the sun used to stream in and wake him on the summer mornings -- they were all summer mornings then -- and climbing up the garden-wall and looking over , Nicholas could see the very rose-bush which had come a present to Kate from some little lover and she had planted with her own hands . 
`` Even here , '' said Nicholas , softly , `` we used to loiter before we knew what death was , and when we little thought whose ashes would rest beneath , and wondering at the silence , sit down to rest and speak below our breath . 
Nothing more passed at the time , but that night , as Nicholas sat beside his bed , Smike started up from what had seemed to be a slumber , and laying his hand in his , prayed , as the tears coursed down his face , that he would make him one solemn promise . 
said Nicholas , kindly . 
Nicholas gave the promise ; he had few words to give it in , but they were solemn and earnest . 
His poor friend kept his hand in his , and turned as if to sleep . 
But there were stifled sobs ; and the hand was pressed more than once , or twice , or thrice , before he sank to rest , and slowly loosed his hold . 
In a fortnight 's time , he became too ill to move about . 
Once or twice Nicholas drove him out , propped up with pillows , but the motion of the chaise was painful to him , and brought on fits of fainting , which , in his weakened state , were dangerous . 
There was an old couch in the house which was his favourite resting-place by day ; when the sun shone , and the weather was warm , Nicholas had this wheeled into a little orchard which was close at hand , and his charge being well wrapt up and carried out to it , they used to sit there sometimes for hours together . 
It was on one of these occasions that a circumstance took place , which Nicholas at the time thoroughly believed to be the mere delusion of an imagination affected by disease , but which he had afterwards too good reason to know was of real and actual occurrence . 
He had brought Smike out in his arms -- poor fellow ! 
a child might have carried him then -- to see the sunset , and , having arranged his couch , had taken his seat beside it . 
He had been watching the whole of the night before , and being greatly fatigued both in mind and body , gradually fell asleep . 
He could not have closed his eyes five minutes , when he was awakened by a scream , and starting up in that kind of terror which affects a person suddenly roused , saw to his great astonishment that his charge had struggled into a sitting posture , and with eyes almost starting from their sockets , the cold dew standing on his forehead , and in a fit of trembling which quite convulsed his frame , was shrieking to him for help . 
cried Nicholas , bending over him , `` Be calm ; you have been dreaming . '' 
Nicholas followed his eyes , which were directed to some distance behind the chair from which he himself had just risen . 
`` This is nothing but your fancy , '' he said , as he strove to compose him ; `` nothing else indeed . '' 
returned Nicholas . 
`` Only reflect for one moment , '' said Nicholas ; `` granting for an instant that it 's likely he is alive and wandering about a lonely place like this , so far removed from the public road , do you think that at this distance of time you could possibly know that man again ? '' 
Nicholas endeavoured , by every persuasion and argument he could think of , to convince the terrified creature that his imagination had deceived him , and that this close resemblance between the creation of his dreams and the man he supposed he had seen was but a proof of it ; but all in vain . 
When he could persuade him to remain for a few moments in the care of the people to whom the house belonged , he instituted a strict inquiry whether any stranger had been seen , and searched himself behind the tree , and through the orchard , and upon the land immediately adjoining , and in every place near , where it was possible for a man to lie concealed , but all in vain . 
And now Nicholas began to see that hope was gone , and that upon the partner of his poverty , and the sharer of his better fortune , the world was closing fast . 
He was worn and wasted to the last degree ; his voice had sunk so low , that he could scarce be heard to speak . 
Nature was thoroughly exhausted , and he had lain him down to die . 
On a fine , mild autumn day , when all was tranquil and at peace , when the soft sweet air crept in at the open window of the quiet room , and not a sound was heard but the gentle rustling of the leaves , Nicholas sat in his old place by the bedside , and knew that the time was nearly come . 
So very still it was , that every now and then he bent down his ear to listen for the breathing of him who lay asleep , as if to assure himself that life was still there , and that he had not fallen into that deep slumber from which on earth there is no waking . 
While he was thus employed , the closed eyes opened , and on the pale face there came a placid smile . 
`` That 's well , '' said Nicholas . 
said Nicholas . 
The dying boy turned towards him , and putting his arm about his neck , made answer , `` I shall soon be there ! '' 
After a short silence , he spoke again . 
`` I am not afraid to die , '' he said , `` I am quite contented . 
`` You say well , '' returned Nicholas at length , `` and comfort me very much , dear fellow . 
exclaimed Nicholas . 
`` Not if it pains you , '' said Nicholas . 
He drew his friend closer to him . 
The words which followed were feebly and faintly uttered , and broken by long pauses ; but from them Nicholas learnt , for the first time , that the dying boy , with all the ardour of a nature concentrated on one absorbing , hopeless , secret passion , loved his sister Kate . 
He had procured a lock of her hair , which hung at his breast , folded in one or two slight ribands she had worn . 
He prayed that when he was dead , Nicholas would take it off , so that no eyes but his might see it , and that when he was laid in his coffin and about to be placed in the earth , he would hang it round his neck again , that it might rest with him in the grave . 
Upon his knees Nicholas gave him this pledge , and promised again that he should rest in the spot he had pointed out . 
`` Now , '' he murmured , `` I am happy . '' 
He fell into a slight slumber , and waking , smiled as before ; then spoke of beautiful gardens , which he said stretched out before him , and were filled with figures of men , women , and many children , all with light upon their faces ; then whispered that it was Eden -- and so died . 
Of all men alive , this was one of the last he would have wished to meet at any time ; but now that he recognised in him only the patron and protector of Nicholas , he would rather have seen a spectre . 
One beneficial effect , however , the encounter had upon him . 
It instantly roused all his dormant energies , rekindled in his breast the passions that for many years had found an improving home there , called up all his wrath , hatred , and malice ; restored the sneer to his lip , and the scowl to his brow , and made him again in all outward appearance the same Ralph Nickleby that so many had bitter cause to remember . 
`` It will be better for Mr. Nickleby and for our object that he should remain silent if he can , till we have said what we have to say . 
I wish him to understand that . '' 
He started back , for he found that he confronted -- not Nicholas , as he had supposed , but Brooker . 
`` Hear what he has to tell you -- oh , Mr. Nickleby , hear what he has to tell you , be he what he may , '' cried the brothers , with such emphatic earnestness , that Ralph turned to them in wonder . 
The brother would give no consent that the sister did n't buy and pay for handsomely ; Mr. Nickleby would consent to no such sacrifice , and so they went on keeping their marriage secret , and waiting for him to break his neck or die of a fever . 
He did neither , and meanwhile the result of this private marriage was a son . 
The brother lingered on , Mr. Nickleby 's wife constantly urged him to avow their marriage , he peremptorily refused . 
He lived in London and clung to his business . 
On the next morning after Brooker 's disclosure had been made , Nicholas returned home . 
The meeting between him and those whom he had left there , was not without strong emotion on both sides , for they had been informed by his letters of what had occurred ; and besides that , his griefs were theirs , they mourned with him the death of one whose forlorn and helpless state had first established a claim upon their compassion , and whose truth of heart and grateful earnest nature had every day endeared him to them more and more . 
`` I am sure , '' said Mrs. Nickleby , wiping her eyes , and sobbing bitterly , `` I have lost the best , the most zealous , and most attentive creature that has ever been a companion to me in my life -- putting you , my dear Nicholas , and Kate , and your poor papa , and that well-behaved nurse who ran away with the linen and the twelve small forks , out of the question of course . 
Of all the tractable , equal-tempered , attached , and faithful beings that ever lived , I believe he was the most so . 
To look round upon the garden now , that he took so much pride in , or to go into his room and see it filled with so many of those little contrivances for our comfort that he was so fond of making , and made so well , and so little thought he would leave unfinished -- I ca n't bear it , I can not really . 
It will be a comfort to you , my dear Nicholas , to the end of your life to recollect how kind and good you always were to him -- so it will be to me to think what excellent terms we were always upon , and how fond he always was of me , poor fellow ! 
It was very natural you should have been attached to him , my dear -- very -- and of course you were , and are very much cut up by this ; I am sure it 's only necessary to look at you and see how changed you are , to see that ; but nobody knows what my feelings are -- nobody can -- it 's quite impossible ! '' 
Kate , although well accustomed to forget herself when others were to be considered , could not repress her grief ; Madeline was scarcely less moved than she ; and poor , hearty , honest , little Miss La Creevy , who had come upon one of her visits while Nicholas was away , and had done nothing since the sad news arrived but console and cheer them all , no sooner beheld him coming in at the door , than she sat herself down upon the stairs , and bursting into a flood of tears , refused for a long time to be comforted . 
`` It hurts me so , '' cried the poor body , `` to see him come back alone . 
I ca n't help thinking what he must have suffered himself . 
I would n't mind so much if he gave way a little more , but he bears it so manfully . '' 
`` Why , so I should , '' said Nicholas , `` should I not ? '' 
`` Nay , '' said Nicholas gently , `` what better reward could I have than the knowledge that his last days were peaceful and happy , and the recollection that I was his constant companion , and was not prevented , as I might have been by a hundred circumstances , from being beside him ? '' 
Waiting until they were all tolerably quiet and composed again , Nicholas , who stood in need of some rest after his long journey , retired to his own room , and throwing himself , dressed as he was , upon the bed , fell into a sound sleep . 
When he awoke he found Kate sitting by his bedside , who , seeing that he had opened his eyes , stooped down to kiss him `` I came to tell you how glad I am to see you home again . '' 
`` You said in your last letter that she was quite well , '' said Nicholas , rather hastily , and colouring as he spoke . 
`` Oh , not a word , '' replied Kate , `` I ca n't think of parting from her without sorrow ; and surely , Nicholas , you do n't wish it . '' 
Nicholas coloured again , and , sitting down beside his sister on a little couch near the window , said , `` No , Kate , no , I do not . 
Kate 's eyes brightened , and she was going to make some reply , when Nicholas laid his hand upon her arm , and went on : `` Nobody must know this but you . 
`` Dear Nicholas ! '' 
`` Before you say another word , dear Nicholas , '' said Kate , turning pale , `` you must hear what I have to tell you . 
There was that in her manner which prepared Nicholas for what was coming . 
`` Come , you foolish girl , '' said Nicholas ; `` why Kate , Kate , be a woman . 
Kate sunk her head upon his shoulder , and sobbed out `` Yes . '' 
`` And he has offered you his hand , perhaps , since I have been away , '' said Nicholas ; `` is that it ? 
said Nicholas , pressing her to his breast . 
said Nicholas tenderly . 
not if your position had been the same , but -- '' `` But it is the same , '' interrupted Nicholas ; `` Madeline is not the near relation of our benefactors , but she is closely bound to them by ties as dear , and I was first entrusted with her history , specially because they reposed unbounded confidence in me , and believed that I was true as steel . 
repeated Nicholas , with a mournful smile , `` ay , and I may grow old . 
Kate smiled through her tears as Nicholas drew this picture , but they were not tears of sorrow , although they continued to fall when he had ceased to speak . 
he said , after a short silence . 
`` I do n't regret having done what was honourable and right , of course , but I do regret that this should have ever happened -- at least sometimes I regret it , and sometimes I -- I do n't know what I say ; I am but a weak girl Nicholas , and it has agitated me very much . '' 
It is no vaunt to affirm that if Nicholas had had ten thousand pounds at the minute , he would , in his generous affection for the owner of that blushing cheek and downcast eye , have bestowed its utmost farthing , in perfect forgetfulness of himself , to secure her happiness . 
But all he could do was to comfort and console her by kind words ; and words they were of such love and kindness and cheerful encouragement , that poor Kate threw her arms about his neck and declared she would weep no more . 
`` What man , '' thought Nicholas proudly , while on his way soon afterwards to the Brothers ' house , `` would not be sufficiently rewarded for any sacrifice of fortune , by the possession of such a heart as that , which , but that hearts weigh light and gold and silver heavy , is beyond all praise . 
Checking thoughts so little adapted to the business on which he was bound by such self-reproofs as this and many others no less sturdy , he proceeded on his way and presented himself before Tim Linkinwater . 
`` Quite , '' said Nicholas , shaking him by both hands . 
`` Dick is a far less sagacious fellow than I supposed him , if he thinks I am half so well worthy of his notice as you , '' replied Nicholas . 
Here Tim stopped and glanced anxiously at Nicholas ; then unexpectedly catching his eye repeated , `` and you and me , Sir , and you and me . '' 
And then he glanced at Nicholas again , and , squeezing his hand , said , `` I am a bad one at putting off anything I am interested in . 
`` Yes , '' said Nicholas , `` many and many a time '' `` That was right of him , '' returned Tim , wiping his eyes , `` that was very right of him . '' 
`` And he mentioned your name a score of times , '' said Nicholas , `` and often bade me carry back his love to Mr. Linkinwater . '' 
Nicholas therefore slipped quietly out , and went to Brother Charles 's room . 
If he had previously sustained his firmness and fortitude , it had been by an effort which had cost him no little pain ; but the warm welcome , the hearty manner , the homely unaffected commiseration of the good old man went to his heart , and no inward struggle could prevent his showing it . 
`` I have thought of all that , Sir , '' replied Nicholas , clearing his throat . 
exclaimed brother Charles as he shut the door and returned to Nicholas . 
`` To tell you the truth , Sir , I am glad to find you alone , '' said Nicholas , with some natural hesitation , `` for I am anxious to say something to you . 
`` I scarcely know how or where to begin , '' said Nicholas . 
I am sure I never shall `` Your telling me that so kindly , '' said Nicholas , `` emboldens me to proceed . 
`` I did not , '' said Nicholas , firmly . 
returned Nicholas , meeting his eye , `` it is not . '' 
`` I did , '' said Nicholas , `` though I could have wished to have spoken to Mr. Frank first . '' 
Upon this head Nicholas requested permission to add a few words . 
He ventured to hope that nothing he had said would lead to the estrangement of Kate and Madeline , who had formed an attachment for each other , any interruption of which would , he knew , be attended with great pain to them , and , most of all , with remorse and pain to him , as its unhappy cause . 
When these things were all forgotten he hoped that Frank and he might still be warm friends , and that no word or thought of his humble home , or of her who was well contented to remain there and share his quiet fortunes , would ever again disturb the harmony between them . 
To all this , brother Charles listened in profound silence , and with his chair so turned from Nicholas that his face could not be seen . 
He had not spoken either in his accustomed manner , but with a certain stiffness and embarrassment very foreign to it . 
Nicholas feared he had offended him . 
He said , `` No -- no -- he had done quite right , '' but that was all . 
`` Frank is a heedless , foolish fellow , '' he said , after Nicholas had paused for some time , `` a very heedless , foolish fellow . 
cried Nicholas . 
Nicholas waited upon him at the time mentioned , and then learnt all that had taken place on the previous day , and all that was known of the appointment Ralph had made with the brothers which was for that night , and for the better understanding of which it will be requisite to return and follow his own footsteps from the house of the twin brothers . 
Therefore we leave Nicholas somewhat reassured by the restored kindness of their manner towards him , and yet sensible that it was different from what it had been -LRB- though he scarcely knew in what respect -RRB- , and full of uneasiness , uncertainty , and disquiet . 
Dying beside Nicholas -- loving him , and looking upon him as something like an angel ! 
They had all turned from him and deserted him in his very first need , even money could not buy them now ; everything must come out , and everybody must know all . 
Here was the young lord dead , his companion abroad and beyond his reach , ten thousand pounds gone at one blow , his plot with Gride overset at the very moment of triumph , his after schemes discovered , himself in danger , the object of his persecution and Nicholas 's love , his own wretched boy ; everything crumbled and fallen upon him , and he beaten down beneath the ruins and grovelling in the dust . 
He seemed to remember a time when he was not quite so rough and obdurate , and almost thought that he had first hated Nicholas because he was young and gallant , and perhaps like the stripling who had brought dishonour and loss of fortune on his head . 
His hatred of Nicholas had been fed upon his own defeat , nourished on his interference with his schemes , fattened upon his old defiance and success . 
The dead boy 's love for Nicholas , and the attachment of Nicholas to him , was insupportable agony . 
The picture of his death-bed , with Nicholas at his side tending and supporting him , and he breathing out his thanks , and expiring in his arms , when he would have had them mortal enemies and hating each other to the last , drove him frantic . 
He gnashed his teeth and smote the air , and looking wildly round , with eyes which gleamed through the darkness , cried aloud : `` I am trampled down and ruined . 
Swiftly there glided again into his brain the figure he had raised that night . 
It seemed to lie before him . 
So it was when he first saw it . 
The rigid , upturned , marble feet too , he remembered well . 
Then came before him the pale and trembling relatives who had told their tale upon the inquest -- the shrieks of women -- the silent dread of men -- the consternation and disquiet -- the victory achieved by that heap of clay which with one motion of its hand had let out the life and made this stir among them -- He spoke no more , but after a pause softly groped his way out of the room , and up the echoing stairs -- up to the top -- to the front garret -- where he closed the door behind him , and remained -- It was a mere lumber-room now , but it yet contained an old dismantled bedstead : the one on which his son had slept , for no other had ever been there . 
He avoided it hastily , and sat down as far from it as he could . 
`` What with him ? '' 
`` Yes , '' cried Ralph , `` detain him till to-morrow ; then let them bring him here -- him and my nephew -- and come themselves , and be sure that I will be ready to receive them . '' 
Madeline had been removed ; Frank had been absent ; and Nicholas and Kate had begun to try in good earnest to stifle their own regrets , and to live for each other and for their mother , who , poor lady , could in no wise be reconciled to this dull and altered state of affairs , when there came one evening , per favour of Mr. Linkinwater , an invitation from the Brothers to dinner on the next day but one , comprehending not only Mrs. Nickleby , Kate , and Nicholas , but little Miss La Creevy , who was most particularly mentioned . 
asked Nicholas , smiling . 
`` I conclude it means , that on such a day we are to eat and drink in their house , and that its intent and object is to confer pleasure upon us , '' said Nicholas . 
`` Tea and supper , perhaps , '' suggested Nicholas . 
With this stipulation , Mrs. Nickleby , who was troubled night and day with a vision of a hot messenger tearing up to the door to announce that Nicholas had been taken into partnership , quitted that branch of the subject , and entered upon a new one . 
At last everybody was dressed , including Nicholas , who had come home to fetch them , and they went away in a coach sent by the Brothers for the purpose : Mrs. Nickleby wondering very much what they would have for dinner , and crossexamining Nicholas as to the extent of his discoveries in the morning , whether he had smelt anything cooking at all like turtle , and if not , what he had smelt ; and diversifying the conversation with reminiscences of dinners to which she had gone some twenty years ago , concerning which she particularized not only the dishes but the guests , in whom her hearers did not feel a very absorbing interest , as not one of them had ever chanced to hear their names before . 
Kate was still more affected by the reception , for knowing that the Brothers were acquainted with all that had passed between her and Frank , she felt her position a most delicate and trying one , and was trembling upon the arm of Nicholas when Mr. Charles took her in his , and led her to another part of the room . 
Without any further explanation , Mrs. Nickleby , Miss La Creevy , and brother Ned , were left alone together , and Nicholas followed brother Charles into his private room , where to his great astonishment he encountered Frank whom he supposed to be abroad . 
`` I need no bidding to do that , '' said Nicholas , extending his . 
Nicholas , who could not trust himself to speak lest his voice should be heard to falter , bowed his head . 
Frank was not very slow to follow , and Nicholas had disappeared first of all . 
Nicholas , who had been engaged in a manner which every reader may imagine for himself or herself , was hurrying down stairs in obedience to his angry summons when he encountered a new surprise . 
Upon his way down , he overtook in one of the passage a stranger genteelly dressed in black who was also moving towards the dining-room . 
As he was rather lame and walked slowly Nicholas lingered behind , and was following him step by step , wondering who he was , when he suddenly turned round and caught him by both hands . 
cried Nicholas joyfully . 
said Nicholas , `` what have you been doing ! 
`` You would never let me do that , '' said Nicholas in a tone of gentle reproach . 
Then there was Mrs. Nickleby so grand and complacent , Madeline and Kate so blushing and beautiful , Nicholas and Frank so devoted and proud , and all four so silently and tremblingly happy -- there was Newman so subdued yet so overjoyed , and there were the twin Brothers so delighted and interchanging such looks , that the old servant stood transfixed behind his master 's chair and felt his eyes grow dim as they wandered round the table . 
Nicholas was one of those whose joy is incomplete unless it is shared by the friends of adverse and less fortunate days . 
Surrounded by every fascination of love and hope , his warm heart yearned towards plain John Browdie . 
He remembered their first meeting with a smile , and their second with a tear ; saw poor Smike once again with the bundle on his shoulder trudging patiently by his side , and hoard the honest Yorkshireman 's rough words of encouragement as he left them on their road to London . 
Madeline and he sat down very many times , jointly to produce a letter which should acquaint John at full length with his altered fortunes , and assure him of his friendship and gratitude . 
Although they applied themselves to it with the best intentions in the world , it chanced that they always fell to talking about something else , and when Nicholas tried it by himself , he found it impossible to write one half of what he wished to say , or to pen anything , indeed , which on re-perusal did not appear cold and unsatisfactory compared with what he had in his mind . 
At last , after going on thus from day to day , and reproaching himself more and more , he resolved -LRB- the more readily as Madeline strongly urged him -RRB- to make a hasty trip into Yorkshire , and present himself before Mr. and Mrs. Browdie without a word of notice . 
Thus it was that between seven and eight o'clock one evening , he and Kate found themselves in the Saracen 's Head booking-office , securing a place to Greta Bridge by the next morning 's coach . 
The place they had just been in called up so many recollections , and Kate had so many anecdotes of Madeline , and Nicholas so many anecdotes of Frank , and each was so interested in what the other said , and both were so happy and confiding , and had so much to talk about , that it was not until they had plunged for a full half hour into that labyrinth of streets which lies between Seven Dials and Soho without emerging into any large thoroughfare , that Nicholas began to think it just possible they might have lost their way . 
The possibility was soon converted into a certainty , for on looking about , and walking first to one end of the street and then to the other , he could find no land-mark he could recognise , and was fain to turn back again in quest of some place at which he could seek a direction . 
Making towards a faint gleam of light , which streamed across the pavement from a cellar , Nicholas was about to descend two or three steps so as to render himself visible to those below and make his inquiry , when he was arrested by a loud noise of scolding in a woman 's voice . 
`` Dear Nicholas , '' whispered Kate , `` you do n't know who that is . 
`` Do make sure ; peep at him while I ask the way , '' said Nicholas . 
Drawing her after him , Nicholas crept down the steps and looked into a small boarded cellar . 
There , amidst clothes-baskets and clothes , stripped to his shirt-sleeves , but wearing still an old patched pair of pantaloons of superlative make , a once brilliant waistcoat , and moustache and whiskers as of yore , but lacking their lustrous dye -- there , endeavouring to mollify the wrath of a buxom female , the proprietress of the concern , and grinding meanwhile as if for very life at the mangle , whose creaking noise , mingled with her shrill tones , appeared almost to deafen him -- there was the graceful , elegant , fascinating , and once dashing Mantalini . 
Very little affected , to judge from her action , by this tender appeal , the lady was on the point of returning some angry reply , when Nicholas , raising his voice , asked his way to Piccadilly . 
The woman looked first at Nicholas , and then at Mr. Mantalini , as if uncertain on whom to visit this extraordinary behaviour , but Mr. Mantalini happening by ill luck to thrust his nose from under the bed-clothes , in his anxiety to ascertain whether the visitors were gone , she suddenly , and with a dexterity which could only have been acquired by long practice , flung a pretty heavy clothes-basket at him , with so good an aim that he kicked more violently than before , though without venturing to make any effort to disengage his head , which was quite extinguished . 
Thinking this a favourable opportunity for departing before any of the torrent of her wrath discharged itself upon him , Nicholas hurried Kate off , and left the unfortunate subject of this unexpected recognition to explain his conduct as he best could . 
The next morning he began his journey . 
It was now cold , winter weather , forcibly recalling to his mind under what circumstances he had first travelled that road , and how many vicissitudes and changes he had since undergone . 
He was alone inside the greater part of the way , and sometimes , when he had fallen into a doze , and , rousing himself , looked out of the window , and recognised some place which he well remembered as having passed either on his journey down , or in the long walk back with poor Smike , he could hardly believe but that all which had since happened had been a dream , and that they were still plodding wearily on towards London , with the world before them . 
John lived in the outskirts now he was a family man , and , as everybody know him , Nicholas had no difficulty in finding a boy who undertook to guide him to his residence . 
Dismissing his guide at the gate , and in his impatience not even stopping to admire the thriving look of cottage or garden either , Nicholas made his way to the kitchen door , and knocked lustily with his stick . 
Adapting his action to his text , John dragged Nicholas into the kitchen , forced him down upon a huge settle beside a blazing fire , poured out from an enormous bottle about a quarter of a pint of spirits , thrust it into his hand , opened his mouth and threw back his head as a sign to him to drink it instantly , and stood with a broad grin of welcome overspreading his great red face , like a jolly giant . 
said Nicholas . 
`` After various shiftings and delays , '' said Nicholas , `` he has been sentenced to be transported for seven years , for being in the unlawful possession of a stolen will ; and after that , he has to suffer the consequence of a conspiracy . '' 
At last it came to a close , and the fire which had been lighted in the best parlour having by this time burnt up , they adjourned thither to hear what Nicholas had to tell . 
Nicholas told them all , and never was there a story which awakened so many emotions in the breasts of two eager listeners . 
When Nicholas began to describe Madeline , he sat with his mouth wide open nudging Mrs. Browdie from time to time , and exclaiming under his breath that she must be `` raa ` ther a tidy sort , '' and when he heard at last that his young friend had come down purposely to communicate his good fortune , and to convey to him all those assurances of friendship which he could not state with sufficient warmth in writing -- that the only object of his journey was to share his happiness with them , and to tell them that when he was married they must come up to see him , and that Madeline insisted on it as well as he -- John could hold out no longer , but after looking indignantly at his wife and demanding to know what she was whimpering for , drew his coatsleeve over his eyes and blubbered outright . 
In fact John Browdie 's apprehensions were so strong that he determined to ride over to the school without delay , and invited Nicholas to accompany him , which however he declined , pleading that his presence might perhaps aggravate the bitterness of their adversity . 
`` I must return to-morrow , '' said Nicholas , `` but I mean to dine with you to-day , and if Mrs. Browdie can give me a bed -- '' `` Bed ! '' 
Giving his wife a hearty kiss , and Nicholas a no less hearty shake of the hand , John mounted his horse and rode off : leaving Mrs. Browdie to apply herself to hospitable preparations , and his young friend to stroll about the neighbourhood , and revisit spots which were rendered familiar to him by many a miserable association . 
His parting words concluded , John Browdie strode heavily out , remounted his nag , put him once more into a smart canter , and , carolling lustily forth some fragments of an old song , to which the horse 's hoofs rang a merry accompaniment , sped back to his pretty wife and to Nicholas . 
When her term of mourning had expired , Madeline gave her hand and fortune to Nicholas , and on the same day and at the same time Kate became Mrs. Frank Cheeryble . 
The money which Nicholas acquired in right of his wife he invested in the firm of Cheeryble Brothers , in which Frank had become a partner . 
The first act of Nicholas , when he became a rich and prosperous merchant , was to buy his father 's old house . 
As time crept on , and there came gradually about him a group of lovely children , it was altered and enlarged , but none of the old rooms were ever pulled down , no old tree was rooted up , nothing with which there was any association of bygone times was ever removed or changed . 
There was one grey-haired , quiet , harmless gentleman , who , winter and summer , lived in a little cottage hard by Nicholas 's house , and when he was not there , assumed the superintendence of affairs . 
His chief pleasure and delight was in the children , with whom he was a child himself , and master of the revels . 
